Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the predominant subtype of lung malignancy. Accumulating epidemiological evidence demonstrates that environmental lead (Pb) exposure as a critical driver of its initiation and progression.This study integrated network pharmacology, molecular docking, and in vitro assays to investigate the oncogenic effects of low-concentration Pb on A549 cells and explore the potential therapeutic mechanisms of osthole and matrine.Network pharmacology identified key potential signaling pathways, and molecular docking screened genes with higher binding affinity to the target. MTT assay was used to determine CC50, maximum safe concentration (MNTC) and cellular proliferative capacity of Pb, matrine and osthole. Scratch test and Matrigel invasion test detected A549 cell migration and invasion; flow cytometry detected apoptosis, ∆Ψm, ROS and cell cycle. qRT-PCR and Western blot measured gene expression levels.Network pharmacology analysis showed that the shared targets of osthole, Pb and NSCLC were mainly enriched in the PI3K/AKT and apoptosis pathways, while matrine, Pb, and NSCLC targets were primarily enriched in cancer metabolism, key hub genes included CDK2, CASP9, IKBKB, PDPK1 and MDM2. Molecular docking demonstrated that osthole showed strong binding to HSD11B1 and CDK2, while matrine exhibited high affinity for DRD4 and CDK2. Considering the essential functions of CDK2 in G1 phase transition, PDPK1, IKBKB, and CASP9 in cell survival, inflammatory signaling, and mitochondrial apoptosis, and MDM2 in p53-mediated cell cycle regulation, phenotypic validation experiments were conducted. Pb exposure significantly enhanced malignant characteristics of A549 cells, including increased migratory and invasive abilities, decreased apoptosis, and a significant reduction in mitochondrial membrane potential. At the molecular level, Pb exposure disrupted cellular homeostasis, as reflected by altered expression of SIRT-1, NRF-1, TGF-β1, Smad, STAT3, STAT1, and mtTFA. Treatment with osthole or matrine effectively reversed all lead-induced abnormalities.Taken together, osthole or matrine exerts anti-cancer effects against Pb- promoted NSCLC progression by restoring disrupted cellular homeostasis through modulating cell cycle progression, inhibiting Pb-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and stress-related signaling imbalance.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Recurrent miscarriage (RM) is a complex pregnancy-related disorder closely associated with impaired extravillous trophoblast (EVT). Antiphospholipid antibody syndrome (APS) is an autoimmune condition that contributes to adverse pregnancy outcomes, including RM. However, the mechanism by which APS induces RM remains largely unclear. Migrasomes, a newly identified type of extracellular vesicle generated during cell migration, may regulate cellular functions through the transfer of microRNAs (miRNAs). Increasing evidence has suggested that migrasomes play important roles in the female reproductive system, particularly in pregnancy-related disorders such as RM. This study aimed to explore the potential role and underlying mechanism of EVT-derived migrasomes in the pathogenesis of RM associated with APS.First, EVT-derived migrasomes (EVTDMs) were isolated from an in vitro RM/APS model established in HTR-8/SVneo cells. Differentially expressed miRNAs in EVTDMs were identified by small RNA sequencing, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses. The predicted target gene of hsa-miR-206 was further validated using a dual-luciferase reporter assay.The results showed that migrasome markers were readily detected in EVTDMs derived from HTR-8/SVneo cells. An in vitro RM/APS model was established by co-incubation with anti-β2-glycoprotein I antibody (anti-β2-GPI Ab). Migrasome-like vesicles were identified by confocal microscopy and transmission electron microscopy. MiRNA profiling revealed that hsa-miR-206 was significantly upregulated in EVTDMs from the RM/APS group. Based on bioinformatic prediction and dual-luciferase reporter assays, IKBKB was identified as a direct binding target of hsa-miR-206.In conclusion, HTR-8/SVneo cells were capable of generating migrasome-like vesicles, and anti-β2-GPI Ab treatment altered the miRNA cargo of EVTDMs. Among the differentially expressed miRNAs, hsa-miR-206 was markedly upregulated and was validated to bind directly to the 3'UTR of IKBKB, suggesting a potential role in posttranscriptional regulation. However, the downstream functional consequences of this interaction remain to be further elucidated.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Macrophages are the most abundant immune cells in the prostate tumor microenvironment and capable of killing tumor cells, but tumor intrinsic modulators of resistance to the innate immune system are unknown. To identify genes essential for macrophage-mediated killing, we performed a genome-wide co-culture CRISPR screen and identified Androgen Receptor (AR), PRKCD, and multiple components of the NF-κB pathway (IKBKB/IKBKG/CHUK) as tumor-intrinsic essential factors to allow for macrophage-mediated killing. Mechanistically, both AR and NF-κB directly drive expression of PRKCD within cancer cells, functionally implicating all hits within one molecular pathway. Importantly, androgen deprivation and AR-inhibition both rendered tumor cells resistant to macrophage-mediated killing, which positions tumor-intrinsic AR signaling as a bona fide immunomodulatory pathway. Proteomic analyses showed a selective downregulation of the oxidative phosphorylation pathway in PRKCD- and IKBKG-KO cells, suggesting impaired mitochondrial function, which was confirmed by electron microscopy analyses. Finally, phosphoproteomic analyses revealed that all hits perturbing macrophage-mediated tumor cell eradication, impaired ferroptosis signaling in the tumor cells, which was confirmed transcriptionally using samples from a neoadjuvant phase II clinical trial with the AR-inhibitor enzalutamide. These data reveal immune protection from macrophages as an adverse consequence of hormonal therapy in prostate cancer patients.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Chronic atrophic gastritis (CAG) is a precancerous lesion that marks a critical stage for preventing gastric cancer progression, yet targeted therapies remain limited. This study evaluated the therapeutic effects and mechanisms of Hericium erinaceus polysaccharide (HEP) in a mouse model of CAG. Comprehensive physicochemical characterization (HPLC, FT-IR, HPGPC, NMR, methylation analysis) identified core structural features of HEP as a highly branched acidic heteropolysaccharide containing five major monosaccharides. Network pharmacology predicted 44 CAG-related targets of HEP, with IKBKB (encoding IKKβ, the catalytic subunit of the IKK complex) prioritized as a main candidate. Molecular docking predicted favorable binding interactions between representative HEP oligosaccharide fragments and IKKβ. In vivo, HEP alleviated gastric mucosal injury, reduced pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6) and MDA, elevated SOD activity, and suppressed TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB overactivation. Mechanistically, HEP stabilized the NF-κB p65/IκBα interaction, blocking DCA-induced p65 nuclear translocation; loss-of-function assays validated IKKβ as the important functional target. Bulk transcriptomics and reanalysis of a public single-cell RNA-seq dataset revealed regulatory pathways and cell-type-specific expression of HEP candidate targets in the gastric microenvironment, notably genes involved in cytoskeletal remodeling and calcium homeostasis. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that HEP exerts gastroprotective effects against CAG through coordinated anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and structure-dependent NF-κB inhibitory actions, supporting its potential as a promising natural agent for CAG intervention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
G-quadruplex (G4) structures are important epigenetic regulators and potential therapeutic targets in cancer. However, their role in prostate cancer, particularly in relation to the immune microenvironment, remains poorly understood.We performed BG4 ChIP-seq to map genome-wide G4 structures in the prostate cancer cell line C4-2. Bioinformatics analyses integrated G4-associated genes with immune pathway enrichment and machine learning algorithms (LASSO, SVM-RFE, GBM, Naïve Bayes, and GLM) to identify hub genes in prostate cancer progression. Clinical data from GTEx, TCGA, and HPA were analyzed for expression and survival. Functional validation included qPCR, CCK-8, colony formation, and wound-healing assays. Druggability was assessed using DrugnomeAI, and AI-assisted peptide design was performed with RFdiffusion and ProteinMPNN.We identified 1,289 prostate cancer-specific G4 structures, predominantly in promoter regions. Machine learning and immune enrichment analysis pinpointed IKBKB as a key hub gene in prostate cancer progression. IKBKB was overexpressed in prostate cancer tissues, correlated with advanced stage and poor prognosis, and was regulated by promoter G4 structures via transcription factors AR and ERG. IKBKB promoted genome instability, tumor stemness, and immune microenvironment remodeling. G4 stabilization increased IKBKB expression and activated the NF-κB pathway, enhancing cancer cell viability, proliferation, and migration. Computational screening confirmed IKBKB's druggability and identified potential inhibitors (e.g., Auranofin). AI-assisted design generated peptide inhibitors targeting IKBKB and a CRISPR-dCas9 strategy for G4 disruption.IKBKB is a G4-regulated, immune-related driver of prostate cancer progression. Its overexpression is linked to NF-κB activation, genomic instability, and immune microenvironment alterations. The study proposes two novel therapeutic strategies: G4 disruption at the IKBKB promoter and AI-designed peptide inhibitors. These findings provide a framework for combining epigenetic targeting with immunotherapy in prostate cancer.Copyright © 2026 Ge, Hou, Huang, Zhang, Yao, Chen, Mao, Ning, Liang, Shi, Yang, Jiang, Shen, Zheng, Shu and Zhang.
The NF-κB signaling pathway is a key regulator of oncogenic processes; however, its systemic role in meningiomas remains poorly understood. The aim of this pilot study was to evaluate the expression of genes encoding NF-κB isoforms and IKK complex subunits in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of patients with meningiomas prior to tumor resection.The study included 31 patients with meningiomas (WHO grades G1-G3) and 18 healthy volunteers. PBMCs were isolated using density gradient centrifugation, and total RNA was extracted. mRNA expression levels of NFKB1, NFKB2, RELA, RELB, c-REL, CHUK, IKBKB, and IKBKG were quantified by real-time PCR, with GAPDH used as the reference gene.In patients with meningiomas, significantly lower expression of NFKB1 and higher expression of RELA, CHUK, and IKBKB were observed compared with the control group. NFKB1 expression was significantly higher in patients with higher tumor grades (WHO G2/G3) than in those with grade G1 tumors. Moreover, male patients exhibited higher expression levels of c-REL, CHUK, and IKBKB than female patients. Strong positive correlations were observed between components of the canonical NF-κB pathway.The results may indicate systemic dysregulation of the NF-κB pathway in immune cells of patients with meningiomas, potentially characterized by activation of the canonical pathway and a shift toward p65/p65 homodimer formation. These alterations could reflect mechanisms associated with immunosuppression. NFKB1 expression may warrant further investigation as a candidate peripheral biomarker of tumor aggressiveness, while the observed sexual dimorphism in gene expression might suggest that sex could represent a relevant factor, requiring confirmation in prospective studies.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is characterized by persistent airflow limitation and chronic airway inflammation. Th17 cell-related immune pathways may contribute to COPD-associated immune dysregulation, but their molecular associations remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to preliminarily explore Th17 cell-associated biomarkers and their potential regulatory networks in COPD.Transcriptomic profiles from COPD and control samples were analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Th17 cell-related DEGs were obtained by intersecting DEGs with Th17-related genes. Random forest and Boruta algorithms were used for biomarker screening, followed by expression validation in training and validation cohorts and RT-qPCR verification. A nomogram model was constructed, and chromosome localization, immune infiltration, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), regulatory network analysis, and drug prediction were performed.A total of 3811 DEGs were identified, including 1408 upregulated and 2403 downregulated genes; 16 overlapped with Th17-related genes. AUC was 1.000, with a 95% confidence interval of 1.000-1.000. Machine learning and validation analyses indicated that TGFBR2 and IKBKB may serve as COPD-associated biomarkers, with both genes showing significant downregulation in COPD samples and RT-qPCR validation (p < 0.05). Immune infiltration analysis indicated significant differences in 11 immune cell types between COPD and control groups. TGFBR2 and IKBKB were negatively correlated with Th17 cell infiltration (TGFBR2: cor = -0.502, p < 0.05; IKBKB: cor = -0.466, p < 0.05). IKBKB was also negatively correlated with macrophages (cor = -0.725, p < 0.001), while TGFBR2 was negatively correlated with natural killer T cells (cor = -0.635, p < 0.001). GSEA suggested 78 enriched pathways, including 42 related to TGFBR2 and 36 related to IKBKB. Drug prediction suggested 92 potential agents.This preliminary, hypothesis-generating study suggests that TGFBR2 and IKBKB may be associated with Th17-related immune alterations in COPD and may provide candidate markers for further mechanistic and therapeutic validation.© 2026 Li et al.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune and inflammatory disease, and circular RNAs (circRNAs) are widely involved in its progression. Baicalin, a naturally derived small molecule, has been shown to improve inflammatory responses in RA by regulating circRNAs; however, the underlying regulatory mechanism remains unclear.This study aimed to investigate how circ_0000734 participates in the inflammatory response of RA-FLS through the miR-197-5p/IKBKB axis and to clarify the intervention effect of baicalin.The expression level of circ_0000734 in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from RA patients was detected by qRT-PCR. Correlation analysis was performed to evaluate the associations between circ_0000734 expression and clinical indicators, including rheumatoid factor (RF), anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide antibody (anti-CCP), C-reactive protein (CRP), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), and DAS28 scores. The downstream targets miR-197-5p and IKBKB were predicted using bioinformatics databases. Dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed to verify the targeting relationship between circ_0000734 and miR-197-5p, as well as the binding relationship between miR-197-5p and IKBKB. Subsequently, circ_0000734 and miR-197-5p were silenced or overexpressed in a TNF-α-stimulated RA fibroblast-like synoviocyte (RA-FLS) model to validate their regulatory relationship. Flow cytometry (FCM), Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), Western blot (WB), and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) were used to determine the effects of circ_0000734 and miR-197-5p silencing/overexpression, as well as baicalin treatment, on RA-FLS cell viability, cell cycle progression, the NF-κB signaling pathway, and the expression of inflammatory factors, including IL-17, IL-23, IL-4, and IL-10.circ_0000734 was highly expressed in PBMCs from RA patients and was positively correlated with disease activity indicators, including RF, CCP, CRP, ESR, and DAS28 scores. In the TNF-α-stimulated RA-FLS cell model, overexpression of circ_0000734 promoted RA-FLS cell proliferation, activated the NF-κB pathway, and disrupted the balance between pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory factors, whereas circ_0000734 silencing exerted the opposite effects. Dual-uciferase reporter assays confirmed the targeting relationship between circ_0000734 and miR-197-5p. Overexpression of miR-197-5p reversed the effects of circ_0000734 overexpression on RA-FLS cell viability, the downstream target gene IKBKB, the NF-κB pathway, and inflammatory factors. In addition, baicalin treatment downregulated circ_0000734 expression, thereby inhibiting the activation of the NF-κB pathway, improving the inflammatory cytokine profile, and reversing the adverse phenotype induced by circ_0000734 overexpression.Highly expressed circ_0000734 in RA promotes NF-κB pathway activation by inhibiting miR-197-5p expression, thereby enhancing RA-FLS cell viability and promoting inflammatory cytokine secretion. Baicalin may inhibit the high expression of circ_0000734 and activation of the NF-κB signaling pathway, ultimately alleviating the inflammatory response in RA-FLS.Copyright © 2026 Sun, Liu, He and Chen.
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), the most aggressive primary central nervous system malignancy in adults, is hallmarked by robust angiogenesis and pronounced heterogeneity, with the mesenchymal subtype linked to the poorest prognosis. The median survival of GBM patients is merely ~ 14 months, and approved anti-angiogenic agents like bevacizumab only yield short-term benefits without improving overall survival, highlighting the urgent need for novel anti-angiogenic targets. FAM135B, a brain-enriched protein-coding gene, is implicated in tumorigenesis and chemoresistance in other cancers, but its role and underlying mechanism in GBM angiogenesis remain unelucidated.Bioinformatic analysis: Gene Set Variation Analysis (GSVA), single-cell and spatial transcriptomic analyses were performed on GBM datasets from TCGA, CGGA and other databases to screen angiogenesis-related genes and explore the correlation between FAM135B expression and clinical prognosis. In vitro experiments: FAM135B-overexpressing/knockdown GBM cell models were constructed. Tube formation, Transwell migration and colony formation assays were used to detect the angiogenic potential of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) treated with GBM cell-conditioned medium. Co-immunoprecipitation, mass spectrometry, Western blot, RT-qPCR and ELISA were applied to verify protein-protein interactions and detect the expression of cytokines and signaling pathway molecules. Dual-luciferase reporter assays confirmed the transcriptional regulation of FAM135B. In vivo experiments: Nude mouse orthotopic and subcutaneous GBM xenograft models were established to assess the effect of FAM135B on tumor growth, angiogenesis and mouse survival. Rescue experiments with NF-κB inhibitor PDTC and recombinant IL-6 were conducted to validate the key role of the NF-κB/IL-6 axis. Clinical sample validation: Immunohistochemistry and magnetic resonance imaging were used to analyze the correlation between FAM135B expression, microvessel density and prognosis in 72 GBM clinical samples.SPSS 19.0 was used for data analysis with Kaplan-Meier, t-tests and Log-rank tests; the significance level was set at P < 0.05.FAM135B is a novel key regulator of GBM angiogenesis, with significantly downregulated expression in GBM tissues (especially the mesenchymal subtype). Low FAM135B expression correlates with enhanced endothelial cell communication, high angiogenic potential and poor progression-free/overall survival in GBM patients. FAM135B inhibits GBM angiogenesis in vitro and in vivo: its overexpression suppresses HUVEC tube formation, migration and colony formation, while knockdown exerts the opposite effect. In orthotopic xenografts, FAM135B overexpression slows tumor growth, prolongs mouse survival, and reduces intratumoral microvessel formation and M2 macrophage infiltration. FAM135B downregulates IL-6 expression to inhibit the JAK/STAT signaling pathway: its expression is negatively correlated with pro-angiogenic cytokines (notably IL-6) in GBM. FAM135B overexpression reduces IL-6 transcription and secretion in GBM cells, thereby inhibiting JAK/STAT phosphorylation in HUVECs; high FAM135B expression in GBM tissues is associated with low IL-6 and CD31 levels. FAM135B binds to the IKK complex (IKKα/IKKβ) to stabilize it, inhibit IKKβ activation and P65 phosphorylation, and block the canonical NF-κB signaling pathway, which is the upstream mechanism of IL-6 downregulation. Co-overexpression of IKBKB partially reverses the anti-angiogenic effect of FAM135B, and PDTC rescues NF-κB activation induced by FAM135B knockdown. HNF4A is the upstream positive transcription factor of FAM135B: it directly binds to two key sites in the FAM135B promoter to promote its transcription and protein expression. HNF4A expression is positively correlated with FAM135B and favorable GBM prognosis; its overexpression inhibits GBM angiogenesis, and this effect is abrogated by FAM135B knockdown.FAM135B acts as a critical negative regulator of GBM angiogenesis, whose low expression contributes to high tumor angiogenic potential and poor patient prognosis. Mechanistically, HNF4A transcriptionally upregulates FAM135B, which then binds to and stabilizes the IKK complex, inactivating the NF-κB signaling pathway and downregulating IL-6 expression, ultimately inhibiting the JAK/STAT-mediated angiogenic process. FAM135B also remodels the GBM tumor microenvironment by reducing M2 macrophage infiltration. Targeting the HNF4A/FAM135B/NF-κB/IL-6 signaling axis provides a novel and promising therapeutic strategy for GBM anti-angiogenic therapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
To identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) associated with diabetic nephropathy and to explore their effects on glomerular podocyte senescence.Renal tissue transcriptome datasets (GSE142025 and GSE199838) were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database, including 39 renal biopsy specimens from patients with diabetic nephropathy and 24 control specimens. The DESeq2 package in R was used for data analysis, with P<0.05 and |log2 fold change| ≥ 1 as the criteria for DEG identification. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis was performed on the identified DEGs. DEGs involved in senescence-related pathways were further screened and validated in the glomerular transcriptome dataset GSE96804. The expression of these genes was verified using a mouse model of diabetic nephropathy and high glucose-induced podocytes. Subsequently, the effects of fibroblast growth factor 1 (Fgf1) on high glucose-induced podocyte senescence and diabetic nephropathy were analyzed through Fgf1 overexpression and knockdown in mouse podocytes, as well as recombinant Fgf1 (rFgf1) treatment in vivo. RT-qPCR was used to verify DEG expression changes; Masson and PAS staining to detect renal fibrosis and glomerular pathology; Fgf1 and Nephrin immunofluorescence to detect Fgf1 expression in podocytes; SA-β-gal staining to detect podocyte senescence; p16 and Nephrin immunofluorescence to detect senescence-related protein expression; and Western blotting to detect protein expression levels..A total of 180 DEGs (89 upregulated, 91 downregulated) were identified in the 39 diabetic nephropathy and 24 control specimens from the GSE142025 and GSE199838 datasets. KEGG analysis showed significant enrichment of these genes in multiple senescence-related signaling pathways, including the MAPK, Rap1, FoxO, and p53 pathways. Validation in the glomerular dataset GSE96804 revealed that FGF1, GADD45B, NR4A1, SRF, and PARD6A were downregulated, while IKBKB was upregulated in the glomeruli of diabetic nephropathy patients, consistent with the previous datasets; the remaining five genes showed no significant changes. In the mouse model, Fgf1 expression was significantly downregulated in renal tissue, while Gadd45b, Nr4a1, Srf, and Ikbkb were upregulated; Pard6a showed no significant difference. In cell models, Fgf1 was downregulated under high glucose, while Ikbkb showed no significant change. Overexpression of Fgf1 in mouse podocytes suppressed the expression of senescence-related genes p21 and p16 and reduced the DNA damage marker γ-H2AX, whereas Fgf1 knockdown had the opposite effect. In vivo, rFgf1 treatment inhibited STZ-induced glomerular extracellular matrix accumulation, reduced glomerular SA-β-gal activity, and lowered the expression of p16, p21, and γ-H2AX in renal tissue and podocytes, thereby ameliorating podocyte senescence and diabetic nephropathy progression.Fgf1 is downregulated in renal tissue, glomeruli, and high glucose-induced podocytes in diabetic nephropathy, and Fgf1 alleviates the progression of diabetic nephropathy in mice by inhibiting glomerular podocyte senescence.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42547809
Background/Objectives: Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), essential thrombocythemia (ET), primary myelofibrosis (PMF), and polycythemia vera (PV) are myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs) that require precise molecular characterization. Although driver mutations such as BCR-ABL1 and JAK2 are diagnostically important, they do not fully explain disease heterogeneity. The NanoString nCounter® system enables direct multiplex gene expression analysis without RNA amplification and is suitable for degraded bone marrow specimens. This study aimed to analyze cytokine gene expression in bone marrow mononuclear cells of patients with MPNs and controls using NanoString technology, identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) among MPN subtypes, and investigate their biological significance. Methods: Bone marrow aspirates were collected from 19 patients with MPNs (CML, ET, PMF, and PV) and 6 control patients. Mononuclear cells were isolated, and RNA expression of a 40-gene cytokine panel was analyzed using the NanoString nCounter® system with strict quality control and normalization. DEGs were identified for each MPN subtype, followed by Gene Ontology(GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) pathway analyses. Results: CML and PV demonstrated 20 and 12 DEGs, respectively. In contrast, ET showed only one DEG (IRAK2), and PMF showed none. Functional analyses revealed enrichment of cytokine signaling, Toll-like receptor (TLR), and JAK-STAT pathways in CML, indicating immune and inflammatory dysregulation. PV DEGs were associated with TLR signaling, IL-17 pathways, and cytokine-cytokine receptor interactions, suggesting active cytokine-mediated inflammation. Conclusions: CML and PV exhibited distinct cytokine-driven transcriptional signatures, whereas ET and PMF exhibited minimal alterations. These findings support the clinical utility of NanoString technology for bone marrow specimens and highlight disease-specific immune pathways as potential diagnostic biomarkers in MPNs.
Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 2 (IRAK2) is essential for the Myddosome complex formation downstream of Toll-like receptors. We identify twelve patients with a homozygous loss-of-function copy number variant in IRAK2, designated IRAK2-∆ex2. Most patients present with recurrent infections, autoantibody production, and gastrointestinal ulceration. Two patients were clinically diagnosed with primary immunodeficiency, while the majority fulfill diagnostic criteria for autoimmune or autoinflammatory diseases. The IRAK2-∆ex2 protein fails to interact with IRAK4, leading to impaired activation of nuclear factor kappa B signaling via the Myddosome complex. An elevated type I interferon signature is observed in the patients, which is confirmed in bone marrow-derived macrophages from knock-in mice and knockout cell lines. Mechanistically, our data are consistent with engagement of a TRIF-dependent interferon pathway. Baricitinib attenuates the elevated interferon signature in patient-derived cells ex vivo and cell lines. Here, we show IRAK2 deficiency as a monogenic immune dysregulation disorder.© 2026. The Author(s).
Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori), a spiral Gram-negative bacterium colonizing gastric mucosa, damages epithelial cells, driving chronic gastritis, peptic ulcers, and gastric cancer. Mechanisms of its malignant transformation remain unclear.We identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and hub genes, pathway enrichment analysis, transcription factors (TFs), small-molecule drug and molecular docking prediction using gastric epithelial cells (GECs) infected with H. pylori strain 26695 and clinical sample datasets.H. pylori infection of GECs, multiple signaling pathways were activated, including the p53, MAPK, TNF, IL-17, PI3K-Akt and NF-κB signaling, DNA replication, Apoptosis, Cell cycle, Necroptosis. A total of 107 co-expressed DEGs were identified in vitro and in vivo. Using Cytoscape, 20 hub genes were prioritized: TNF, CXCL8, NFKBIA, IRF1, ICAM1, TNFAIP3, BIRC3, CXCL1, ITGAM, RELB, CXCL2, CCL20, NFKB2, EGR1, CDKN1A, IRAK2, JAK1, NFKBIE, TRAF1, and JUNB. These hub genes were enriched in NF-κB, TNF and IL-17 signaling, and responses to bacterial pathogens or lipopolysaccharide. Further analysis identified 9 upregulated TFs: VDR, SPI1, ETS2, STAT1, E2F1, PML, ETS1, BRCA1, MYC, and 4 downregulated TFs: ING4, CEBPD, HSF1, JUN. To explore potential therapeutic interventions, we performed small-molecule drug prediction and molecular docking for hub genes revealed: Simvastatin: Linked to CCL20, NFKBIA, and ICAM1. Atorvastatin: Associated with CDKN1A, ICAM1, and TNF. TPCA-1: Targeting JAK1.These findings provide a theoretical foundation for further investigation into the molecular mechanisms underlying H. pylori-related diseases.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, He, Zhao, Cai, Liu and Wang.
This study explores repetitive Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPR) sequences from the archaea Acidianus sp. and Acidianus ambivalens (A. ambivalens), as well as from the bacterium Yersinia ruckeri (Y. ruckeri). These sequences are compared with human microRNA (miRNA) sequences to investigate potential genetic similarities and disease associations.CRISPR sequences were retrieved from the CRISPR/Cas++ database, and human miRNA sequences were obtained from miRBase. Sequence alignments were performed using BLASTn with an E-value threshold of 1e-5 to identify significant similarities. Genes associated with matched human miRNAs were identified through the HGNC and GeneCards databases. Further analyses included comparison with disease-associated miRNAs reported in human and mouse datasets.In Y. ruckeri, alignments revealed similarities to miRNAs linked with genes such as FOXO1, PTEN, PAX7, and DOCK3, which are associated with lung cancer and muscular dystrophies. In A. ambivalens, aligned miRNAs corresponded to loci including CHM13 and GRCh38, potentially linked to periembolic adenocarcinoma and mild pre-eclampsia. For Acidianus sp., matches were observed with miRNAs associated with genes like Irak2, NOS2, STAT1, and Numb, which have been implicated in Psoriatic arthritis, Alzheimer's disease, Hepatocellular carcinoma, and Coronary artery disease.CRISPR sequences from these prokaryotes show notable similarities with human miRNAs, suggesting possible indirect links to genes involved in major diseases. These preliminary findings emphasize the need for further investigation into shared sequence motifs and their functional roles in host-pathogen interactions or evolutionary biology.Copyright © 2025, Avicenna Journal of Medical Biotechnology.
Titanium and its alloys are widely used in dental implants owing to their excellent biocompatibility and corrosion resistance, despite their elastic moduli mismatch with bone and insufficient interfacial bioactivity which often restrict their osseointegration performance, particularly in the early stage after implantation. To address these limitations, a boronized Ti6Al4V/hydroxyapatite (HA) composite with improved structural and biological performance was developed. Scanning electron microscopy and atomic force microscopy confirmed a micro/nanostructured surface with increased roughness. RNA sequencing of osteoblasts cultured on the composite identified 683 upregulated and 838 downregulated genes relative to Ti6Al4V. Gene ontology enrichment revealed biological processes related to cell adhesion, extracellular matrix remodeling, and integrin-mediated signaling, whereas KEGG pathway analysis indicated activation of cell cycle, PI3K/Akt, and calcium signaling pathways. Gene set variation analysis further highlighted eight key upregulated genes-CYP1A1, CRLF2, HBEGF, IRAK2, DLL1, CYP1B1, BLOC1S5-TXNDC5, and TRIP13. Functional validation demonstrated that the TRIP13 expression correlated positively with osteogenic differentiation, in conjunction with activation of the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway. Collectively, these findings proved a TRIP13-associated transcriptional response linked to osteogenic regulation on the boronized Ti6Al4V/HA composite surface, offering a mechanistic insight into the design of bioactive titanium-based implants with improved osseointegration.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Inflammation plays a critical role in cancer initiation and progression by modulating the tumor microenvironment and immune responses. Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 2 (IRAK2) is a key mediator of the Toll-like receptor and interleukin-1 receptor signaling pathways, its pan-cancer expression patterns, genomic and epigenetic features, immune-related roles, and clinical relevance remain unclear.The expression patterns of IRAK2 across multiple cancer types, transcript variants, single-cell distribution, prognostic significance, and biological functions were comprehensively evaluated through analyses of multiple databases and multi-dimensional datasets. Furthermore, the correlations of IRAK2 with the immune microenvironment, epigenetic modifications, and drug sensitivity were investigated. The potential role of IRAK2 in hepatocellular carcinoma was further explored through both in vitro and in vivo experiments.Aberrant expression of IRAK2 was observed in the majority of cancer types, with a relatively high proportion of expression detected in macrophages, and was found to be associated with the prognosis of certain cancers. In most cancer types, IRAK2 expression showed significant correlations with immune cell infiltration, the cancer-immunity cycle, major histocompatibility complex molecules, immune checkpoints, tumor mutational burden, microsatellite instability, RNA modifications (including m1A, m5C, and m6A), and DNA methylation sites. Both in vitro and in vivo experiments demonstrated that knockdown of IRAK2 markedly reduced the proliferative capacity of hepatocellular carcinoma cells.The present study highlights the potential of IRAK2 expression as a novel biomarker for predicting the prognosis and immunotherapeutic response across various human cancers.© 2025. The Author(s).
Mastitis is a common and multifactorial disease in dairy cattle that leads to a major challenge in the livestock industry, in terms of both animal welfare and economic factors. Despite extensive research on mastitis, particularly gene expression profiling, the role of RNA stability dynamics remains unexplored and no study has investigated RNA stability dynamics in this disease. We hypothesized that genes important for mastitis development exhibit similar RNA stability patterns, with increased stability following infection as a response mechanism. Therefore, RNA stability pattern of genes between healthy and infected samples were investigated to identify potential modules associated with bovine mastitis. To test this hypothesis, gene stability was estimated based on an RNA-Seq dataset and a gene co-expression network was constructed using WGCNA approach. Finally, a novel propagation-based algorithm was developed to assess identified module consistency. A total of 13 gene modules with three different RNA stability patterns were identified: (1) increased stability in infected samples for the red module (innate immunity), (2) increased stability in infected samples for the yellow module (cytokine pathways), and (3) decreased stability in infected samples for the blue module (health related pathways). Of these, genes in yellow and red modules showed an increase of stability after infection. The red module was significantly associated with the innate immune activation (adjusted p-value < 0.05), while cytokine/chemokine-related pathways was predominantly enriched in the yellow module (adjusted p-value < 0.05). Propagation network analysis demonstrated the functional relationships of genes in both modules. In fact, the distinct RNA stability profiles between healthy and infected samples provided a powerful approach to identify two biologically meaningful and disease-related modules. Further investigations revealed that a large number of genes in these modules have been previously reported as important regulators involved in mastitis development including IL6, IL1B, IL1RN, TLR2, TNFAIP3, VEGFA NFKB1, STAT6, TYK2, CD74 and CREBBP. Moreover, a number of genes, including RELB, ARHGEF2, TNIP2, CACTIN, DHX9, IFNGR1, ATF4, RIPK2, IRAK2, SMAD4 and SDC4 were of particular interest because they are well-known immune response-associated genes and can be considered novel candidates involved in mastitis. These findings highlighted the importance role of RNA stability in the progression of mastitis. The results of this study contribute to a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms of the disease and provide a foundation for future research aimed at improving the health and productivity of dairy cattle.
Type A aortic dissection (TAAD) is a vascular disease with high mortality; however, the role of gene methylation in its pathogenesis has received little attention. This study aimed to identify candidate markers of TAAD by integrating methylation and transcriptome sequencing analyses. Aortic tissue samples from five TAAD cases and five controls were sequenced on Illumina Hiseq sequencing platform and Infinium Methylation EPIC BeadChip microarray. A series of bioinformatics analyses and machine learning algorithms were used to identify key methylated genes from the differentially expressed genes and differentially methylated sites between TAAD and controls. An overexpression vector of ZC3H12A was constructed, and human vascular smooth muscle cells (HVSMCs) were transfected with the vector to explore the effects of key methylated genes on cell proliferation, migration, and phenotypic switch. Differential analysis and integration of gene expression and methylation levels between TAAD and control samples suggested 239 differentially methylated genes, mainly involved in nicotinamide nucleotide biosynthetic and metabolic processes. By applying protein-to-protein network and machine learning algorithms, we finally identified three methylated genes, including ZC3H12A, IRAK2, and CCL5, which could be used as potential markers of TAAD. Both correlation analysis and experimental validation results indicated that expression levels of these genes were significantly negatively regulated by their methylation levels. Among them, ZC3H12A was confirmed to significantly promote the proliferation and migration in HVSMCs in vitro, while inhibiting their phenotypic transformation. Three methylated genes were identified as potential diagnostic markers for TAAD. Among them, ZC3H12A might contribute to disease progression.© 2025. The Author(s).
Glioblastoma (GBM) cells mediate immunosuppressive microenvironment, leading to poor response to programmed death-ligand 1(PD-L1) inhibitor therapy. How PD-L1 in GBM cells confers to GBM immunosuppressive microenvironment remains unclear. Here, we demonstrate that PD-L1 activated GP130/JAK2/STAT3/IRAK2/NFκB/IL6 pathway. We showed that PD-L1 was elevated in human primary GBM and promoted GBM cell viability, migration and invasion via activating janus kinase 2(JAK2) by interacting with glycoprotein 130(GP130) and PD-1 in GBM cells, leading to the activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), a master that renders GBM immunosuppression. Overexpressing STAT3 reversed the effect of silencing PD-L1-mediated cell viability, proliferation, migration and invasion. STAT3 promoted interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 2(IRAK2) transcription. IRAK2 overexpression rescued the effect of silencing STAT3-mediated cell viability, proliferation, migration and invasion. Additionally, IRAK2 facilitated interleukin-6 (IL6) expression via activating nuclear factor kappa-B (NFκB). Our results indicate that PD-L1/GP130/JAK2/STAT3/IRAK2/NFκB/IL6 axis promotes GBM cell viability, proliferation, migration and invasion via interacting with GP130 and PD-1 in GBM cells. Additionally, STAT3 transcriptionally promoted PD-L1 expression, thus forming loops to lead to PD-L1 autoregulation. IL6 positively correlated with GBM-associated macrophages, myeloid-derived suppressor cells and the inhibition of dendritic cells. Our study suggests that PD-L1 autoregulation may create immunosuppressive GBM via activating GP130/JAK2/STAT3/IRAK2/IL-6 pathway.© 2025. The Author(s).
Pathogenic variants in the genes encoding the non-canonical TGFB signaling components TAK1 (MAP3K7), TAB2 and PKA-Cα (PRKACA) cause rare multisystem disorders, which may include congenital heart disease (CHD). To investigate the role of TAK1 signaling in CHD, we performed genetic analysis of CHD patients and discovered an increased burden of rare TAB2 and TAK1 variants in patients with extracardiac abnormalities. To address the mechanism of TAK1 in heart development, we performed experiments in cell and animal models. Zebrafish tak1 and tab2 mutants presented with cardiac and extracardiac developmental defects, and tak1 mutant hearts showed downregulation of genes encoding core cardiac transcription factors, sarcomeric proteins and extracellular matrix proteins. In vitro experiments indicated that TAK1 via TAB2 and PKA-Cα is activated at the primary cilium during cardiomyogenesis; activation at this site is enhanced by TGFB/BMP ligands. Inactivation of TAK1 inhibited ciliary signaling and cardiomyocyte differentiation, and patient-derived TAK1 variants reduced its ciliary localization. In conclusion, our data establish a pivotal role for TAK1 and its upstream regulators at the primary cilium in heart development and syndromic CHD.Copyright: © 2026 Doganli et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Intestinal barrier is the body's largest immune structure and essential for nutrient absorption. Its dysfunction allows the translocation of pathogenic substances into circulation, thereby driving the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Plant-derived exosome-like nanovesicles (ELNs), recognized for their biocompatibility and ability to traverse biological barriers, hold considerable potential for managing intestinal inflammation. Specially, plants cultivated under extreme environmental conditions typically adapt to be stress resistant with greater accumulation of associated biologics, which may in-turn confer unique bioactivities to their respective ELNs.This study investigated the protective effects and mechanisms of ELNs derived from the extremophyte Rosa roxburghii (R-ELNs) and Artemisia sphaerocephala Krasch (A-ELNs) against intestinal barrier dysfunction. In vitro and in vivo studies indicated that the ELNs, especially R-ELNs, provided enhanced protection against intestinal barrier dysfunction. Specifically, mucus secretion and tight junction protein expression were promoted, and macrophages were polarized toward M2 anti-inflammatory phenotypes. Furthermore, R-ELNs modulated the composition of the intestinal microbiota, thereby promoting a balanced microecological environment. Importantly, the protective effect of R-ELNs was suggested to be through an inhibitory effect on excessive activation of pro-inflammatory signaling proteins (AKT, p38). Notably, exosomes (Exos) derived from R-ELN-treated M2 macrophages had distinct miRNA profiles that can target inflammatory pathway genes (Tgfbr1, Map3k7, Met), enabling anti-inflammatory roles via intercellular communication.These findings suggested that R-ELNs can restore intestinal barrier dysfunction via multiple synergistic mechanisms, positioning R-ELNs as a novel and promising preventive strategy for inflammatory bowel disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
VPS37A, a subunit of ESCRT-I involved in endosomal sorting and autophagy, is frequently downregulated in diverse human cancers. In this study, we showed that VPS37A downregulation, as part of a large chromosome 8p deletion, arises early during tumorigenesis and persists throughout tumor progression. Integrative analysis of VPS37A gene copy number and CRISPR dependency revealed that VPS37A deficiency creates a synthetic lethal dependency on the MAP3K7-NF-κB-CFLAR axis, and targeting this axis triggered CASP8-mediated apoptosis and suppressed tumor growth. This synthetic vulnerability depends on ATG8ylated membranes, which serve as a platform for CASP8 activation upon inhibition of phagophore closure, and can be triggered without disrupting receptor sorting. Consistently, despite frequent co-deletion of VPS37A and the death receptors TNFRSF10A/B, inhibition of the MAP3K7-NF-κB-CFLAR axis selectively induced apoptosis in spheroid tumors with 8p deletion. These results uncover a selective vulnerability in cancer cells harboring VPS37A/8p loss, providing a mechanistic rationale for targeted therapeutic intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
Immune dysregulation (ID), defined as aberrant immune activation or suppression, may result in autoimmune or inflammatory disorders, lymphoproliferative malignancies, and allergic diseases. Apoptosis, nuclear factor-κB, and phosphoinositide 3-kinase pathways are major pathways involved in ID. This study aimed to assess ID using targeted inflammatory gene-expression profiles in comparison with controls. We grouped patients according to presenting features: autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome (Group 1), immune cytopenia (Group 2), and EBV-associated lymphoproliferation (Group 3). We established real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis for selected genes (CASP8, CASP10, FAS, FASL, AKT, MAP3K7, MAP3K14, mTOR, NFKB1, NFKB2, NFKBIA, and TRAF3) involved in inflammatory pathways, and calculated gene expression fold changes using the logarithmic Delta-Delta Ct (2^(-delta delta CT)) method. The median age of symptom onset in Group 1 (n = 10), Group 2 (n = 12), and Group 3 (n = 10) was 9.3 (0.5-38.7), 5.7 (0.7-19), and 22.5 (0.7-45) years, respectively (P = 0.181). The median age at hospital admission was 12 (1.9-38.7), 9.4 (2.3-35), and 34.8 (0.9-54.7) years in Groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively (P = 0.152). There was a significant difference between patient and control groups (P < 0.05), but none among patient groups regarding targeted gene expression (relative quantification values). According to ROC curve analysis, the most discriminative target genes are NFKB2, MAP3K7, AKT, mTOR, NFKB1, and FAS. We propose an ID signature that includes targeted gene expression profiles (NFKB1, NFKB2, MAP3K7, AKT, mTOR, and FAS) and suggest using these specific gene expressions as a biomarker for diagnosis and therapy response in ID.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of British Society of Immunology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Aging is frequently associated with a progressive loss of physiological integrity, with immunosenescence and chronic inflammation playing pivotal roles in this process. While natural compounds like Dihydromyricetin (DHM) exhibit significant anti-aging potential, its precise upstream immunomodulatory targets and cross-species conservation remain largely elusive. Through a combination of transcriptomic analyses and cross-species assays, we demonstrated that DHM systematically downregulates basal antimicrobial peptide expression to resolve chronic inflammaging in Drosophila, while simultaneously maintaining robust acute pathogen clearance. Furthermore, DHM significantly suppressed the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) in a mammalian H₂O₂-induced stress-induced premature senescence (SIPS) model. Crucially, genetic silencing revealed that the immune-regulatory kinase TAK1 (and its mammalian homolog MAP3K7) is fundamentally required for the lifespan-extending benefits of DHM in Drosophila and mediates the suppression of key SASP components, such as IL-1β and IL-8, in mammalian fibroblasts. These findings suggest that the TAK1/MAP3K7 axis serves as a crucial conserved node mediating a significant portion of DHM's cross-species anti-aging effects. This study underscores the therapeutic potential of targeting the TAK1 axis with natural compounds to combat age-related immune dysregulation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Abdominal pain is a hallmark symptom of both inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and substantially impairs patients' quality of life. Relaxation response-based mind-body intervention (RR-MBI) has been reported to improve disease-specific outcomes and pain catastrophizing in both disorders, accompanied by whole-blood transcriptomic changes. However, the transcriptional features potentially relevant to abdominal pain before and after RR-MBI in IBS and IBD remain insufficiently explored. In this context, this study aimed to analyze these transcriptional changes and prioritize putative abdominal pain-relevant candidate genes from exploratory differentially expressed gene (DEG) sets.Gene expression data (GSE66824) were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). Whole-blood gene expression profiles were analyzed from 14 IBS and 19 IBD patients, with samples collected before and after a 9-week RR-MBI. Exploratory DEG sets were identified using GEO2R outputs with nominal P < 0.05 and absolute fold-change magnitude (AFC) ≥ 1.2. Functional enrichment analyses were performed using DAVID. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks were constructed using STRING and visualized in Cytoscape. Putative abdominal pain-relevant candidate genes were prioritized from exploratory DEG sets within PPI/MCODE modules based on network position, matching module genes to the DisGeNET disease entry "pain", and targeted pain-related literature annotation.(1) In IBD post-MBI, 649 exploratory DEGs were identified, with enrichment of neurotrophin and TGF-β signaling pathways; MAP3K7, SLC12A2, and FKBP5 were prioritized as candidate genes. (2) In IBS post-MBI, 175 exploratory DEGs were identified, with enrichment of glutamatergic synapse and calcium signaling pathways; network analysis highlighted NTRK2, FKBP5, and AR as candidate genes. (3) At baseline, 836 exploratory DEGs were identified, with enrichment in pathways including p53 signaling and NOD-like receptor signaling; notable prioritized candidate genes included TRAF6 and TNFSF11.Prioritized genes after RR-MBI and in the baseline comparison may represent putative abdominal pain-relevant candidate transcriptional signals in IBS and IBD. These exploratory findings require validation in independent cohorts with matched individual-level pain-related outcomes and functional studies.© 2026 Lin et al.
Proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR) is a major cause of blindness. Surgery remains the primary clinical intervention, but its outcomes are frequently unsatisfactory. A deeper understanding of PVR pathophysiology is therefore essential for developing new treatments. TRAF6 is a multifunctional intracellular adaptor protein that regulates diverse biological processes, yet its role in PVR is unknown. Here, we investigated the function of TRAF6 in PVR and its downstream mechanisms using a mouse model and ARPE-19 cells. The results demonstrated that TRAF6 expression was upregulated in the retinas of PVR model mice and in ARPE-19 cells. Knockdown of TRAF6 alleviated PVR progression in mice by suppressing inflammation and the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells. Conversely, TRAF6 overexpression in ARPE-19 cells exacerbated TGF-β1-induced EMT. Mechanistically, TRAF6 positively regulated MAP3K7 expression via a protein-protein interaction. Knockdown of TRAF6 inhibited P38/MAPK signaling pathway activation by reducing MAP3K7 expression. Furthermore, knockdown of TRAF6 attenuated the promoting effect of MAP3K7 overexpression on TGF-β1-induced EMT in RPE cells. In conclusion, TRAF6 knockdown protects against PVR in mice by inhibiting the MAP3K7 and p38 MAPK pathways.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Splicing is governed by interactions between the spliceosome and precursor RNA sequence and structural elements. However, the relative contributions of RNA sequence and structural elements remain unclear. Here, we systematically dissect these determinants using a high-throughput mutagenesis approach with the MAP3K7 intron reporter. The MAP3K7 gene encodes a serine/threonine kinase involved in response to environmental stress. MAP3K7 precursor RNA contains a cryptic 3' splice site that increases in use when the core spliceosomal protein SF3B1 is mutated. SF3B1 mutations are known to promote aberrant splicing and are associated with cancer, particularly the lysine 700 to glutamate mutation (K700E). We designed a pooled library of 249 MAP3K7 mutants targeting branch points, RNA-binding protein motifs, nucleotide composition and predicted structural elements. The impact of these mutants on splicing was measured in the context of normal and SF3B1 K700E expression. RNA structure was assessed in parallel using in vitro high-throughput SHAPE-MAP chemical probing. We found that branchpoint mutations drive the strongest increases in cryptic splice-site use. There is no overall correlation between cryptic splice-site use and structural similarity to the wild-type MAP3K7 RNA. However, mutants within an RNA binding protein hotspot (containing U2AF2, U2AF1, KHSRP and SRSF2 sites) are associated with cryptic splice-site use and structural similarity to wild-type MAP3K7 RNA. These structural changes are associated with increased ensemble diversity. Our results demonstrate that although there are key structured regions within an RNA, there is also extensive variability where divergent RNA structures allow for accurate splicing.
Nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) signaling plays a central role in inflammation, immunity, cell survival, and cancer progression. Its constitutive activation is frequently observed in breast cancer, contributing to tumor growth, treatment resistance, and metastasis. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are key post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression and may modulate NF-κB signaling in a subtype-specific or -independent manner. The aim of the study was to identify miRNAs that may potentially regulate the activity of genes associated with NF-κB signaling across five molecular subtypes of breast cancer in Polish women. Tumor and matched normal tissue samples were collected from 405 patients with five breast cancer subtypes: luminal A (n = 130), HER2-negative luminal B (n = 100), HER2-positive luminal B (n = 96), non-luminal HER2-positive (n = 36), and triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC, n = 43). Expression profile of selected NF-κB-related genes were evaluated using mRNA microarrays and RT-qPCR. Protein levels were assessed by ELISA. Candidate regulatory miRNAs were identified via miRNA microarrays and validated using the miRDB database. A consistent upregulation of MAP3K7, TAB2, TNFAIP3, CSNK2A1, BCL2L1, XIAP, CXCL2, and PLAU was observed across all subtypes, suggesting activation of canonical NF-κB signaling. Downregulation of specific miRNAs, miR-1297 and miR-30a (targeting MAP3K7), miR-134 (TAB2), miR-125b (TNFAIP3), and miR-4329 (XIAP), may contribute to this deregulation. For CSNK2A1, BCL2L1, CXCL2, and PLAU, no regulatory miRNAs meeting our criteria were identified. Our study reveals a subtype-independent activation of the canonical NF-κB signaling pathway in breast cancer, underpinned by consistent upregulation of key components (at both the transcript and protein levels. Dysregulation of specific miRNAs likely contributes to this altered gene expression. These findings suggest the presence of a common NF-κB-driven oncogenic program across molecular subtypes, with potential implications for developing miRNA-based therapeutic strategies targeting inflammation, survival signaling, and treatment resistance in breast cancer.
Targeting the transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) pathway to reverse the immunologically "cold" tumor microenvironment of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remains clinically unsuccessful, warranting novel therapeutic strategies.We performed multiplex immunohistochemistry on human PDAC samples to correlate cell-type-specific TGF-β pathway activation and CD8+ T-cell abundance and developed a tumor and T-cell coculture to interrogate the TGF-β pathways that promote T-cell-mediated cytotoxicity. We employed newly generated genetically engineered mouse models and a specific pathway inhibitor and confirmed our findings using single-cell RNA sequencing, flow cytometry, and multiplex immunohistochemistry. We performed proteomics and various in vitro and in vivo assays to establish the mechanisms.We found TGF-β-activated kinase 1 (TAK1, Map3k7) to be aberrantly activated in PDAC cells and correlates with T-cell dysfunction. Pharmacological inhibition with Takinib, or genetic deletion of tumor Map3k7 in an autochthonous p48-Cre/Trp53f/f/LSL-KrasG12D genetically engineered mouse model, enhances CD4+ and CD8+ effector T-cell infiltration and renders immune checkpoint blockade effective. Mechanistically, TAK1 inhibition induces DNA damage and cytoplasmic DNA leakage, which activates the cyclic GMP-AMP synthase-Stimulator of Interferon Genes DNA sensing pathway, triggering inflammatory responses that promote adaptive immune cell infiltration. At the molecular level, TAK1 phosphorylates Ephrin Receptor A2 at Serine 897, which in turn phosphorylates RAD51 at Tyrosine 315, a key DNA repair protein involved in homologous recombination.We uncover TAK1 as a critical mediator in maintaining genomic integrity and highlight its potential as a therapeutic target to induce an inflamed tumor microenvironment that sensitizes PDAC to immune checkpoint blockade.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Sepsis-induced cardiomyopathy (SICM) is a severe complication of sepsis for which effective pharmacological treatment options remain limited. This study aimed to investigate the role of RIPK2, prioritized through cardiac proteomic screening, and evaluate the protective effects of the RIPK2 inhibitor WEHI-345 in SICM.Quantitative proteomics was performed on cardiac tissues from lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced SICM mice, followed by quantitative real-time PCR validation of candidate targets. The effects of WEHI-345 were evaluated in HL-1 cells, neonatal rat ventricular myocytes (NRVMs), and LPS-induced SICM mice. siRNA-mediated Ripk2 knockdown was performed in HL-1 cells for genetic validation. Inflammation, apoptosis, signaling activation, myocardial injury, and cardiac function were assessed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, immunofluorescence, flow cytometry, western blotting, echocardiography, and histological staining.Proteomic analysis revealed significant enrichment of the nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-like receptor signaling pathway, with RIPK2 markedly upregulated in LPS-induced SICM. A cytokine mixture plus LPS (Cytomix) increased NOD1/2 expression and activated RIPK2-associated mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) signaling. WEHI-345 attenuated Cytomix-induced inflammatory injury and apoptosis in HL-1 cells and NRVMs, suppressed ERK, p38, JNK, and NF-κB activation, and reduced inflammasome-associated responses. These protective effects were partially reproduced by Ripk2 knockdown. In vivo, WEHI-345 improved survival and cardiac function, reduced myocardial injury and inflammation, and suppressed RIPK2/MAPK/NF-κB signaling.RIPK2 contributes to SICM-associated inflammatory and apoptotic injury, at least partly through MAPK/NF-κB-related signaling. RIPK2 inhibition by WEHI-345 may represent a potential therapeutic strategy for SICM.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-encoded small RNAs (EBERs) are abundant viral noncoding RNAs that associate with host chromatin, but the promoter-scale consequences of those contacts remain unclear. We re-analyzed GSE281522 in EBV-positive GM12878 cells integrating RNA-DNA contacts, RNAPII ChIA-PET, RNA-seq and internal ATAC-seq after EBER depletion. Promoters were classified according to increased RNAPII-associated promoter-looping signal after EBER depletion relative to the matched control conditions, defined as LoopRecovery; increased transcriptional output, defined as ExprUp; or the coordinated occurrence of both responses, defined as Recovery + Up. EBER-contacted promoters were markedly depleted for Recovery + Up relative to non-contacted promoters (0.42% vs 2.00%; OR ~ 0.21; Fisher's exact p ~ 6.3 × 10-5), and the association between increased promoter looping and transcriptional upregulation was attenuated among EBER-contacted promoters. This depletion remained directionally stable across alternative threshold grids, loop-support and expression filters, and promoter-window definitions using TSS-centered intervals of ± 1 kb, ± 2 kb and ± 5 kb (ORs 0.416, 0.208 and 0.110, respectively). To test whether the constrained class simply reflected inactive chromatin, we integrated internal ATAC-seq from the same study. Constraint-core promoters, defined as EBER-contacted promoters that did not enter Recovery + Up, remained accessible, with ATAC overlap observed in 89.38% versus 68.38% of comparator promoters in any replicate and higher replicate-averaged ATAC signal (median 42.55 vs. 10.43). Ranked Hallmark enrichment and top-contact over-representation converged on TNFA_SIGNALING_VIA_NFKB as the strongest pathway-level signal, and candidate loci including RIPK2, IL15RA, ICAM1, TNFAIP3 and NFKBIA defined accessible but constrained promoter hubs. Control RNA contact maps did not reproduce a uniform EBER-like phenotype. Together, these analyses support a model in which EBER-associated contacts mark accessible yet transcriptionally constrained RNAPII promoter hubs in EBV-positive B cells.© 2026. The Author(s).
Therapeutic resistance remains a prevalent and intractable clinical challenge across a broad spectrum of human malignancies. Despite extensive investigations, the intricate molecular networks by which the tumor microenvironment (TME) mediates such resistance are not fully understood. In this study, we identified nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-containing proteins 1 and 2 (NOD1/2) as pivotal regulators of adaptive resistance to diverse antitumor therapies, including immune checkpoint blockade (ICB), adoptive T-cell therapy, and cytotoxic chemotherapy. In murine tumor models, genetic ablation of NOD1/2 or receptor-interacting protein kinase 2 (RIPK2), as well as pharmacological inhibition of RIPK2, remodeled the TME by decreasing immunosuppressive macrophages and boosting CD8⁺ T cell infiltration and cytotoxicity. Mechanistically, NOD1/2 activation in macrophages upregulated programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression via the RIPK2/NF-κB signaling axis, establishing an immunosuppressive TME that impaired CD8⁺ T cell-mediated antitumor immunity. Notably, in the clinically relevant setting of immunotherapy resistance, targeted suppression of NOD1/2 signaling in patient-derived peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) restored and potentiated ICB responsiveness in patient-derived tumor organoids. Bioinformatic analyses further demonstrated that NOD1/2-associated gene signatures were significantly enriched in tumor-associated macrophages post-therapy. Our findings define NOD1/2 as a novel innate immune checkpoint that orchestrates therapy-induced adaptive resistance and highlight this pathway as a promising target to overcome treatment resistance in refractory cancers.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42469615 is a review article
Live Newcastle disease (ND) vaccines face major limitations: spray vaccination causes adverse vaccinal reactions in day-old chicks, while in ovo vaccination results in high pathogenicity in embryos. We hypothesized that specific host responses contribute to the pathogenicity of live ND vaccines. In this study, lentogenic NDV La Sota vaccination in ovo significantly reduced the hatchability and post-hatch survival, accompanied by robust upregulation of inflammatory and cell death-related genes, notably the receptor-interacting serine/threonine-protein kinase 2 (RIPK2) in chicken lungs. Given the absence of RIPK3 in chickens and the structural homology of chicken RIPK2 to mammalian RIPK3 (sharing the conserved DFG motif), the RIPK3 inhibitor GSK840 targeting the DFG motif was tested as a potential modulator of La Sota pathogenicity. Co-administration of GSK840 with La Sota in ovo markedly improved the hatchability, post-hatch survival and antibody response. Furthermore, GSK840 pre-treatment at 18 days of embryonation prevented tracheal pathology, particularly the loss of cilium and goblet cells, and boosted antibody responses in day-old chicks receiving spray vaccination. Through biotin-conjugated GSK840 pull-down and mass spectrometry, multiple myosins (∼200 kDa) were identified as its potential targets in chicken trachea, rather than RIPK2. Collectively, our results demonstrate that GSK840 improves the safety and immunogenicity of La Sota in ovo and spray vaccination and that myosins are potential targets of GSK840. These findings present novel insights into the pathogenicity of live ND vaccines and provide important implications for optimization of live ND vaccination.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The innate immune response is a critical defense mechanism by which vertebrates recognize and eliminate invading pathogens. Pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) detect pathogen-associated molecular patterns and activate downstream signaling pathways. NOD1, a classic PRR of the NLR family, recruits the adaptor protein RIPK2 to initiate antibacterial signaling. In this study, we cloned and characterized the NOD1 gene from snakehead (Channa argus). Briefly, the full-length NOD1 cDNA is 2829 bp encoding 943 amino acids, showing high homology with Perciformes. The qPCR analysis revealed widespread NOD1 gene expression in various tissues, with significant upregulation in the gill (p < 0.05) and spleen (p < 0.05) following bacterial infection. Overexpression of the NOD1 gene activated the NF-κB signaling pathway in a dose- and time-dependent manner, and specifically responded to the bacterial ligand iE-DAP but not to other tested ligands. Furthermore, NOD1 synergized with the downstream adaptor RIPK2 to enhance NF-κB activity, and direct protein interaction between NOD1 and RIPK2 was confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that snakehead NOD1 plays a critical role in the host antimicrobial immune response.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42264058 is a review article
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common malignancies worldwide, characterized by complex pathogenesis and immune escape mechanisms. The tumor immune microenvironment plays an increasingly recognized role in tumorigenesis, progression, and treatment. Receptor-interacting serine/threonine-protein kinase 2 (Ripk2) plays a pivotal role in inflammatory responses and immune regulation. This study aimed to investigate the role of Ripk2 in the HCC immune microenvironment, particularly its impact on macrophage function, using a macrophage Ripk2 knockout mouse model (Ripk2CKO), single-cell sequencing analysis (scRNA-seq) and flow cytometry (FCM). We found that inhibiting or deleting Ripk2 altered the intratumoral microbiota within macrophages, significantly increasing the abundance of Streptomyces collinus (Sc). This alteration not only prompted a metabolic shift in macrophages but also significantly upregulated the transcription factor Myb expression, promoting Cxcl9 secretion, thereby enhancing CD8+ T cell infiltration, activity, and proliferation. Furthermore, Ripk2 was found to promote lactate production via the Pax5/Adpgk pathway, leading to CD8+ T cell dysfunction and forming an immunosuppressive feedback loop in HCC. Combining a Ripk2 inhibitor (GSK583) with a PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor (BMS202) reduced the hepatotoxicity of BMS202 monotherapy and improved therapeutic efficacy. In conclusion, this study provides new insights into the role of Ripk2 in the HCC immune microenvironment and lays an experimental foundation for the development of Ripk2-targeted immunotherapy strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Background: Septic cardiomyopathy (SCM) is a fatal sepsis-induced dysfunction. While Pueraria (Pue) exhibits protective effects in sepsis, its regulatory role regarding programmed cell death (PCD) in SCM remains unclear. This study aimed to identify Pue's PCD-related targets in SCM and construct a validated diagnostic model. Methods: We analyzed 14 PCD modalities across seven GEO transcriptomic datasets. A robust machine learning framework integrating 171 algorithm combinations built a diagnostic signature. The immune landscape was profiled using single-cell RNA sequencing and enrichment analyses. Experimental validation utilized SCM patient blood samples and heart tissues from an LPS-induced murine model. Results: Nine PCD patterns were significantly altered in SCM. Intersection analysis and machine learning identified five core Pue targets: STAT3, RIPK2, GM2A, ALOX5, and DPP4. A diagnostic model constructed with these genes achieved high AUCs across all datasets. Single-cell analysis revealed cell-type-specific expression within the myocardial immune landscape. Differential expression of these five genes was validated in both human and animal samples, correlating significantly with cardiac function indices. Conclusions: Our results demonstrate that Pueraria mitigates SCM and restores cardiac function by modulating the expression of core PCD-related targets. These targets are closely associated with the localized inflammatory response, providing potential therapeutic avenues for SCM.
The function of the interferon-stimulated gene ISG15 in cervical cancer (CC) is complex and remains unclear. We analyzed the expression and clinical significance of ISG15 in the TCGA-CESC cohort. Its function was investigated in Caski cells using RNA-seq, siRNA, and pharmacological inhibition methods, and validated in vivo in a xenograft model. ISG15 was significantly overexpressed in cervical cancer tissues (P < 0.001). However, high ISG15 expression was associated with better overall survival (HR=0.67, 95% CI: 0.48-0.94, p = 0.02). Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) indicated that high ISG15 expression was associated with the NOD-like receptor signaling pathway. Mechanistically, ISG15 binds to and stabilizes the NOD2 protein via ISGylation. This binding promotes cell proliferation and invasion. The RIPK2 inhibitor (GSK583) eliminated the oncogenic effects of ISG15. In vivo experiments showed that ISG15 knockdown or GSK583 treatment inhibited tumor growth by approximately 50%. Our study reveals the dual nature of ISG15: it is both a prognostic biomarker and a functional oncoprotein in cervical cancer cells. Its pro-tumorigenic effect is mediated by the overactivation of the NLR pathway through ISGylation. The ISG15-NOD2/RIPK2 axis is a targetable vulnerability, suggesting that treatment strategies should be decoupled from its prognostic association.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
SMARCA4-deficient undifferentiated tumors (SMARCA4-dUT) have been included in the latest WHO classification of tumors. This study examined the cytomorphology, management, molecular features and prognosis of malignancies harboring SMARCA4 alterations.Biopsied cytologic slides were reviewed. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) and clinical data were analyzed.Thirty-four cases with SMARCA4 alterations were identified, including 13 primary and 21 metastatic tumors, sampled primarily from lung (35%), lymph nodes (26%) and liver (15%). Tumor origins were predominantly the lung (61%) and gallbladder (9%). The most common tumor type was adenocarcinoma (70%). Predominant architectures included nested, single-cell, tubular/acinar, and 3D clusters. Cells were most commonly round and columnar, with medium cytoplasm mostly showing vacuoles and granular features. Nuclear grade 2-3 was seen in 93% of cases, with prominent nucleoli and coarse chromatin. SMARCA4 alteration included mutations (32) and loss (2). These tumors are characterized by a high co-mutation burden, including TP53 (62%), KRAS (35%), and STK11 (15%). Prognosis is further modulated by allelic status (biallelic vs. monoallelic vs. subclonal), and mutations in DDR pathway (24%). Most tumors presented as stage IV. 26% received surgical resection. Overall, 74% underwent chemotherapy and 29% radiotherapy. Mean follow-up was 17 months, with 2-year OS of 49.1%. Twenty-three (68%) patients were current or former smokers.SMARCA4-altered malignancies show diverse differentiation and lack consistent cytomorphologic features. Majority of cases were differentiated malignancies and only four cases (12%) were undifferentiated, suggesting SMARCA4 alterations were associated with poor prognosis but were not exclusive drivers of undifferentiated malignancy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Pancreatic cancer (PC) is known to be a highly fatal malignancy, and elucidating new molecular mechanisms is of great importance. In this study, we investigated NECTIN4 (PVRL4), which is associated with poor prognosis, via bioinformatics approach. We used following tools and datasets: For differential gene expression analysis, TCGA TARGET GTEx study on UCSC Xena, GSE183795, GSE71729 and GSE196009 GEO datasets; for associations with clinicopathological and promoter methylation features, UALCAN; for correlations with overall survival (OS), disease-free survival (DFS) gene chip database, and for correlations with OS and relapse-free survival (RFS) RNAseq database in the Kaplan-Meier (KM) plotter; for correlations with OS and Progression-Free Interval (PFI), DoSurvive; for immune infiltration correlations, TIMER3; for expression changes in hotspot mutations, GEPIA 3; for potentially related pathways, diseases, and processes, the Gscore online tool; for gene alterations detections, cBioPortal; and identifying potential targeting miRNAs, miRDB, TargetScanHuman 8.0, ENCORI, and DoSurvive. NECTIN4 (PVRL4) is upregulated in primary pancreatic adenocarcinoma in TCGA TARGET GTEx study (log2FC=2.015633, adj.P.Val=4.62E-21) and in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas in GSE183795 (log2FC=0.726, adj.P.Val=10-16.895) GSE196009 (log2FC=2.807, adj.P.Val=10-3.855) GSE71729 (log2FC= 1.227, adj.P.Val=10-10.318) datasets, and may be associated with unfavorable OS (p = 3.63E-02) and PFI (p = 8.09E-03) independent of age at diagnosis, sex, and stage in DoSurvive. In KM plotter RNA seq database, increased NECTIN4 (PVRL4) expression was statistically significantly associated only with shortened OS (p = 0.008). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) expressions are higher in the following traits than in others: In Asians compared to normals (p = 4.949700E-02) and Caucasian (p = 4.480000E-03); in chronic pancreatitis patients from normals (p=3.456300E-02); in grade 2 (p = 2.420600E-04) and grade 3 (p = 1.875500E-03) from grade 1; in TP53 mutants from nonmutants (p = 7.6379999999987E-05). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) correlates positively or negatively with many immune cell types, some of which are also associated with OS. NECTIN4 is upregulated in KRAS (log2FC=1.78, p = 1.05E-17), TP53 (log2FC=0.959, p = 1.22E-05), SMAD4 (log2FC=1.02, p = 0.000111), CDKN2A (log2FC=0.668, p = 0.0144), and RNF43 (log2FC=0.917, p = 0.0393) mutant samples. NECTIN4 (PVRL4) is associated with many pathways, processes, and diseases these may be related to PC. Six patients have amplification, and one patient has a splice mutation. hsa-miR-329-3p and hsa-miR-5586-5p may be potential negative regulatory miRNAs of NECTIN4 (PVRL4). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) may be associated with many pathways awaiting experimental illumination in PC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565971 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565918 is a review article
Colorectal cancer is a common gastrointestinal malignancy worldwide. KRAS gene mutation is an important molecular feature of colorectal cancer, but the clinical significance of different mutation sites remains unclear. This study aims to investigate the distribution characteristics of specific KRAS gene mutation sites and analyze their associations with clinicopathological parameters and survival outcomes in patients with colorectal cancer, thereby providing a basis for precise stratified diagnosis and treatment.A total of 550 patients with colorectal cancer who underwent surgical treatment at the Affiliated Cancer Hospital of Zhengzhou University from May 2018 to January 2020 were retrospectively included, and tumor tissue specimens were retained from all patients. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was first used to screen all specimens for KRAS gene mutations, and the overall mutation rate was calculated. High-throughput sequencing was then performed on 210 of these specimens using the Illumina Nova sequencing platform to determine the specific mutation types at codons 12 and 13 of exon 2 of the KRAS gene. Clinicopathological data, including age, sex, tumor stage, lymph node metastasis status, and primary lesion diameter, were collected. Survival data were obtained through outpatient follow-up and telephone follow-up, with the follow-up cutoff date of December 29, 2023. Univariate and multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression models were used to identify independent risk factors affecting prognosis. Variables were included based on a univariate analysis threshold of P<0.10 and clinically recognized key variables, such as tumor stage and lymph node metastasis.Among the 550 specimens, KRAS gene mutations were detected in 232 cases, with an overall mutation rate of 42.18%. Among the 210 specimens subjected to high-throughput sequencing, mutations were detected in 155 cases, with a mutation rate of 73.81%. Seven mutation types were identified. G12D was the most common mutation site (19.52%), followed by G12V (12.86%), G13D (12.86%), G12S (10.95%), G12A (8.57%), G12C (8.10%), and double mutations, including G12D+G12V and G12V+G13D, each accounting for 0.48%. Analysis of associations with clinical features showed that the proportion of patients with lymph node metastasis at initial diagnosis was 73.17% (30/41) among patients with the G12D mutation, which was significantly higher than that in patients with wild-type KRAS [38.18% (21/55), P<0.05]. However, the proportion of patients with a primary lesion diameter ≥4 cm was 36.59% in the G12D mutation group, which did not differ significantly from that in the wild-type group (25.45%, P>0.05). The proportions of patients with a primary lesion diameter ≥4 cm were 66.67%, 76.47%, 78.26%, and 66.67% among patients with G12A, G12C, G12S, and G13D mutations, respectively, all of which were significantly higher than that in the wild-type group (all P<0.05). However, the proportions of lymph node metastasis in these mutation groups did not differ significantly from that in the wild-type group (P>0.05). Cox proportional hazards regression analysis demonstrated that tumor stage Ⅲ-Ⅳ (HR=1.820, 95% CI 1.194 to 2.774, P=0.005), G12C mutation (HR=2.014, 95% CI 1.321 to 3.069, P=0.001), G12D mutation (HR=1.857, 95% CI 1.218 to 2.930, P=0.004), and G12V mutation (HR=1.751, 95% CI 1.149 to 2.669, P=0.009) were independent risk factors for death in patients with colorectal cancer.Different KRAS gene mutation sites are specifically associated with clinical features of colorectal cancer. The G12D mutation is associated with a high risk of lymph node metastasis, whereas G12A, G12C, G12S, and G13D mutations are associated with increased primary tumor size. G12C, G12D, and G12V mutations are independent prognostic risk factors and may serve as potential molecular markers for risk stratification and individualized treatment.
Anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) fusions are established oncogenic drivers and therapeutic targets in multiple malignancies, including non-small cell lung cancer but are rare in colorectal cancer (CRC). Although ALK fusions in CRC have been associated with sensitivity to ALK inhibitors, their broader genomic context remains incompletely defined. We aimed to characterize the prevalence, clinicogenomic features, and therapeutic implications of ALK fusions in advanced CRC.Comprehensive genomic profiling using hybrid capture-based next-generation sequencing was performed on 56,206 advanced CRC tumors to identify alterations, including ALK fusions. Microsatellite instability (MSI)/mismatch repair (MMR) status, tumor mutational burden (TMB), genomic ancestry, COSMIC trinucleotide signatures, and homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) signatures were derived from sequencing data. PD-L1 expression was assessed by immunohistochemistry.ALK fusions were identified in 63 tumors (0.1%). Compared with ALK fusion-negative CRC, ALK fusion-positive (ALKfus+) tumors demonstrated enrichment for MSI-high/MMR-deficient status and high TMB, with numerically higher PD-L1 expression. In contrast, canonical CRC driver alterations were markedly depleted, including KRAS, APC, and PIK3CA mutations.ALK fusions define a rare but biologically distinct subset of CRC characterized by frequent MSI-high/MMR-deficient status and a unique genomic landscape. These findings support comprehensive genomic profiling to identify ALK fusions in CRC, which may inform the use of ALK-directed therapies, and highlight the frequent co-occurrence of MSI-high disease within this subgroup.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Although multigene testing for advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is reimbursed in Japan, optimizing its real-world clinical impact remains challenging. This study updates nationwide testing trends and evaluates the treatment gap between diagnostic results and first-line therapeutic interventions. We conducted a retrospective cohort study using the Diagnosis Procedure Combination database (April 2019 to May 2024). The analysis included 24,047 patients with Stage IV NSCLC across 300 hospitals who underwent diagnostic lung biopsies. Comprehensive multigene testing shifted significantly; testing for ≥ 5 genes rose sharply from late 2021, followed by a marked increase in 6-7 gene testing from mid-2023. Testing for rare drivers (MET, RET, KRAS, HER2) increased substantially. However, approximately 30% of patients remained untested regardless of region or age. While the proportion of patients receiving first-line targeted therapy plateaued at just under 30%, the use of targeted therapies for rare drivers showed a steady increase. In conclusion, multigene testing has rapidly replaced single-gene testing in Japan, narrowing the diagnostic gap for rare oncogenic drivers. Nevertheless, the persistent 30% untested rate emphasizes the need for better shared decision-making to ensure all patients receive comprehensive biomarker evaluation.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
Although hydrophobic drugs demonstrate the promising therapeutic efficacy for peripheral artery disease in vitro, their in vivo performance is often hindered by low bioavailability due to inherent hydrophobicity. To address this, an injectable, self-healing and curcumin-sustained-release hydrogel (CGP hydrogel) using a gelatin/polyvinyl alcohol hydrogel (GP hydrogel) was developed. The CGP hydrogel effectively preserved the DPPH radical-scavenging activity of curcumin at room temperature. Meanwhile, in the murine hindlimb ischemia model, a single intramuscular injection of CGP following femoral artery ligation significantly improved the motor function of the ischemic limb compared to curcumin suspension. This superior therapeutic outcome is attributed to the sustained release of curcumin from the CGP hydrogel. Mechanistically, we found that CGP, but not GP, inhibited the expression of Atp6v0d2 in ischemic skeletal muscle cells and suppressed ischemia-induced autophagy. The inhibition of autophagy may mitigate tissue and cellular necrosis and promote the expression of Myogenin. Furthermore, CGP reduced the expression of pro-fibrotic factors such as Tgfb1 and Ctgf and prevented skeletal muscle fibrosis. In summary, the CGP hydrogel, through its sustained release of curcumin, inhibits ischemia-induced autophagy, alleviates necrosis and fibrosis in skeletal muscle tissue and preserves motor function in the ischemic limb.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Using single-cell transcriptomics of bronchoalveolar lavage cells from Mtb/SIV co-infected rhesus macaques on cART, we reveal profound immune dysregulation during early SIV co-infection of latent tuberculosis. SIV induces a sharp decline in CD4+ T cells, NK, and NKT cells, with incomplete recovery of Mtb-specific TH1 effector responses despite viral suppression. Instead, a persistent TH17-skewed environment emerges, alongside sustained myeloid inflammation driven by Type I interferon signaling and pro-inflammatory regulators such as KLF6 and NFKB1. Ligand-receptor network analyses demonstrate expanded CD4+ T cell-macrophage crosstalk and loss of immune homeostasis that cART fails to fully restore. These findings expose how SIV remodels the pulmonary immune landscape to impair protective immunity against Mtb, providing a transcriptomic framework to explain TB reactivation in HIV infection. Our work highlights the urgent need for adjunctive immunotherapies to complement cART, aiming to rebalance immune responses and improve TB control in co-infected individuals.© 2026 The Author(s).
Neuroinflammation plays an important role in the pathobiology of Progressive Supranuclear Palsy Syndrome (PSP-S). However, it is not adequately known whether peripheral inflammation correlates to neuroinflammation in PSP-S. This study aimed to examine a link between peripheral and brain inflammation in PSP-S by integrating blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) inflammatory profile and Positron Emission Tomography (PET)-Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) (PET-MRI).Fifty-six PSP-S patients and equal number of healthy controls were recruited. Plasma Th17 pathway cytokine (IL-6, IL-1β, IL-4, IL-10, IL-17A, IL-17F, IL-21, IL-22, IL-23, IL-25, IL-31, IL-33, IFN-γ, sCD40L, and TNF-α) levels were measured in all the study participants. CSF levels of these cytokines were measured only in PSP-S patients. The expressions of NF-κB (Nfkb1, and Nfkb2), inflammasome (Nlrp3, Casp1, and Il18), Th17 (Il1b, Il6, Il17, Tnfa, Il22, Il23, Rorc, and Stat3) and anti-inflammatory (Tgfb, and Il10) genes were quantified in all the study participants. PET-MRI was carried out in a subset of PSP-S patients (n=12) and eleven disease controls (Parkinson's Disease=7, and Multiple System Atrophy=4).Inflammasome (Casp1 and Il18), NF-κB (Nfkb1) and inflammatory (Il1b and Il6) genes were upregulated in PSP-S patients. Plasma IL-1β, IL-6, IL-17A, and IL-17F levels were significantly elevated in PSP-S patients. IL-1β levels significantly correlated between plasma and CSF. PET-MRI indicated neuroinflammation in several brain regions of PSP-S patients.Both systemic inflammation and neuroinflammation are evident in PSP-S. The positive correlation of higher plasma IL-1β levels with neuroinflammation provides preliminary evidence towards the influence of specific peripheral inflammatory molecule on neuroinflammatory basis of PSP-S. The altered immune elements of the current study further reinforce the pathogenic relevance of immune-inflammatory pathways in PSP-S pathobiology.Copyright © 2026 Dey, Kumar, Kumar, Kavya, Mondal, Holla, Kamble, Mahale, Pal, Yadav and Debnath.
Sjögren's disease (SjD) is a systemic autoimmune disease showing clinical characteristics similar to systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and systemic sclerosis (SSc) at early phases, complicating diagnosis.In this cross-sectional study, blood was obtained from 65 SjD, 34 SLE, and 44 SSc patients and 56 healthy donors (HD). Numbers and percentage of circulating leukocytes and expression of HLA-DR, PSGL-1, ADAM8, IL-10 and IFNα were determined by flow cytometry.Compared to HD, SjD patients showed generalized immune system activation and global reduction of circulating leukocytes, except for plasma cells, which were increased. IFNα levels were reduced in SjD CD16- monocytes, dendritic cells (DC), B cells and basophils, but increased in SjD CD16+ monocytes and T cells, showing a positive correlation between IFNα T cell levels and percentage of circulating plasma cells. ADAM8 expression levels were reduced in CD16+ monocytes and B cells. In plasma cells and plasmablasts reduction of ADAM8 expression levels were observed during disease activity. SjD patients had reduced percentage of PSGL-1+ neutrophils and increased percentage of PSGL-1+ B cells (PS1B), which expressed higher levels of IL-10 than those from HD. Low percentage of PSGL-1-expressing neutrophils, basophils, T cells and NK cells and low PSGL-1 expression level in pDC associated with the presence of cutaneous manifestations. Low PSGL-1 expression level in basophils, cDC and both CD16- and CD16+ monocytes was associated with the presence of anti-SSB autoantibodies. Remarkably, we found two cellular biomarkers: PS1B/%pDC ratio (PPr) distinguished SjD patients from HD (accuracy: 78%) and from SSc (accuracy: 84%) and PS1B discriminated SjD from SLE (accuracy: 70%). Both biomarkers improved diagnostic accuracy when combined with current serological markers.Dysregulated PSGL-1 and ADAM8 expression in SjD circulating cells is associated with important clinical manifestations in SjD patients, supporting their potential relevance as therapeutic targets in this disease. Additionally, we found PS1B and PPr as new cellular biomarkers that could help improve SjD diagnostic accuracy, particularly in seronegative or ambiguous cases during the early phase of disease.Copyright © 2026 Ramos-Manzano, Sánchez-Abad, San Antonio, Uriarte-Ecenarro, González-Álvaro, Saez-Martínez, Dueñas-Ochoa, García-Pérez, Ancochea, Vicente-Rabaneda, Castañeda and Urzainqui.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) lacks reliable early diagnostic biomarkers and effective disease-modifying therapies. Ferroptosis has been increasingly implicated in AD pathogenesis; however, ferroptosis-related genes with diagnostic and mechanistic relevance remain insufficiently characterized.Transcriptomic datasets were obtained from the GEO database and analyzed using differential expression analysis and WGCNA, followed by integration with ferroptosis-related gene sets. Key targets were identified through PPI networks and machine learning approaches, including LASSO regression and random forest. A diagnostic model was constructed and its discriminative performance was assessed across independent datasets by cohort-specific refitting. Functional roles were explored using GSEA, and experimental validation was conducted by qPCR in Aβ-treated PC12 cells. Potential therapeutic compounds were predicted using the CMAP database.A total of 52 ferroptosis-related candidate genes were identified. Among these, three genes, NFKBIA, ATP6V1E1, and SUB1, were consistently selected as core features by machine learning algorithms. A diagnostic model based on these genes demonstrated strong performance in the training cohort (AUC > 0.8) and reproducible discriminative ability across external datasets, albeit with cohort-dependent variability. Functional analysis suggested that these genes are involved in pathways related to neuroinflammation, lysosomal activity, and oxidative stress, indicating a potential link between ferroptosis and key pathological processes in AD. qPCR validation confirmed the differential expression trends of these genes. In addition, several candidate compounds, including etomoxir and tubastatin A, were predicted to potentially modulate these pathways.Three ferroptosis-related genes, NFKBIA, ATP6V1E1, and SUB1, were identified in Alzheimer's disease and showed consistent discriminative ability across multiple cohorts, with links to neuroinflammation, lysosomal function, and oxidative stress. These findings highlight their potential as candidate biomarkers warranting further investigation, although prospective validation in independent cohorts is required to confirm their diagnostic utility.Copyright © 2026 Zhao, Sui, Li, Wang, Sun, Zheng and Li.
Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) infection and reactivation in B-lymphocytes are tightly regulated by host antiviral response genes. In the present study, we identify Interferon Stimulated Genes (ISGs) RSAD2 (radical S-adenosyl methionine domain-containing 2) and CMPK2 (Cytidine/Uridine Monophosphate Kinase 2) as key modulators of EBV expression and cellular response during EBV infection and reactivation. EBV primary infection and reactivation lead to a coordinated upregulation of RSAD2 and CMPK2. Depletion of RSAD2 reduced cell viability and limited EBV reactivation, while depletion of CMPK2 led to reactivation of EBV lytic gene expression during latency. Despite distinct subcellular localizations, RSAD2 at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and CMPK2 in the mitochondria, transcriptomic analysis revealed that both genes functionally converge and exhibit overlapping roles in driving shared immunometabolic pathways, specifically Interferon (IFN) signaling, MAPK signaling, oxidative phosphorylation, mitochondrial function, eukaryotic translation, and ATF-4-associated unfolded protein response (UPR). We show that RSAD2 and CMPK2 knockdown affects IRAK1-TRAF6-TAK1 expression levels, and RSAD2 overexpression downregulates NF-κB signaling by EBV membrane associated oncoprotein LMP1. Depletion of RSAD2 and CMPK2 had significant effects on global metabolites consistent with a remodeling of nucleotide metabolism, glycolysis, fatty acid biosynthesis and degradation of superoxides. EBV reactivation induced formation of antiviral ribonucleotide ddhCTP during lytic EBV reactivation which was strictly dependent on RSAD2. These observations demonstrate that RSAD2 and CMPK2 function in a coordinated ER-Mitochondria-Interferon signaling axis that shapes EBV reactivation and host immune control, including a novel layer of immunometabolic regulation modulating viral latency and reactivation.Copyright: © 2026 Zankharia et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is an aggressive malignancy with limited therapeutic options, driven in part by its immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME). Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) and neutrophils (TANs) contribute to tumor progression and immune evasion. A Disintegrin and Metalloproteinase 8 (ADAM8), a zinc-dependent protease, is strongly upregulated in PDAC and correlates with poor clinical outcomes, suggesting a regulatory role in tumor progression.Wild-type (WT) and Adam8 knockout (A8KO) PDAC cell lines were generated using the CRISPR-Cas9 technique, and PDAC mouse models with or without Adam8 expression were established to investigate the role of ADAM8 in tumor and immune cells. In vitro assays, including Western blotting, qPCR, migration and invasion assays, proliferation assays, ELISA, cytokine and proteome analyses, as well as co-culture experiments with PDAC cells and either macrophages or neutrophils, were employed to assess the effects of ADAM8 on tumor-immune cell crosstalk. In parallel, in vivo WT and A8KO KPC models were generated, genotyped, and monitored to evaluate the impact of ADAM8 on survival, tumor growth, and immune cell recruitment within the PDAC TME.ADAM8 deletion reduced tumor cell proliferation and migration, associated with reduced activation of FAK/Src/STAT3 signaling and altered secretion of cytokines including GM-CSF, M-CSF, ICAM-1, and TNF-α. Co-culture assays demonstrated that ADAM8 enhanced reciprocal signaling between tumor cells and TAMs/TANs, promoting pro-oncogenic activation. Migration assays and in vivo analyses revealed that ADAM8 facilitated recruitment of macrophages and neutrophils in PDAC TME, while Adam8KO tumors exhibited reduced immune infiltration and altered macrophage polarization.Our findings demonstrate that ADAM8 promotes PDAC aggressiveness by enhancing tumor cell proliferation and migration, activating FAK/Src/STAT3 signaling, and driving macrophage and neutrophil recruitment through cytokine regulation. By orchestrating both tumor-intrinsic pathways and tumor-immune interactions, ADAM8 emerges as a key determinant of PDAC progression and a systemic target for therapeutic intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
Interleukin receptor-associated kinase (IRAK)-1 binding protein 1 (IRAK1BP1) is a vital factor in preventing dangerous overproduction of proinflammatory cytokines by the innate immune system. The structure and function of IRAK1BP1 have been well investigated in mammals, yet the piscine IRAK1BP1 is poorly understood. In the present study, the first teleost fish IRAK1BP1 from blunt snout bream, maIRAK1BP1, was identified and characterized, which was composed of a 750 bp open reading frame encoding a protein of 249 amino acids. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that maIRAK1BP1, is a novel member of IRAK1BP1 family and showed the highest similarity to that of grass carp (96.28%). Amino acid sequence analysis revealed that maIRAK1BP1 shared a conserved SIMPL domain. Spatial expression pattern analysis revealed that maIRAK1BP1 was constitutively expressed in various normal tissues including heart, spleen, head kidneys, gill, kidney, muscle, intestine and liver. The maIRAK1BP1 expression in immune-relevant tissues (liver, head kidneys and kidney) and caudal fin cells (MAF) were significantly up-regulated after LPS and bacteria injection. The result from subcellular localization analysis indicated that maIRAK1BP1 protein was localized in both the cytoplasm and nucleus of MAF cells, but predominantly existed in cytoplasm. The activity of NF-κB promoter could be inhibited by overexpression of maIRAK1BP1 in HEK-293T cells. Overexpression of maIRAK1BP1 in MAF cells inhibited dramatically the transcriptional expression level of lipopolysaccharide-induced proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8 and TNF-α). In contrast, an increased expression of these cytokines was observed when maIRAK1BP1 was knocked down via siRNA. Taken together, these results indicated that maIRAK1BP1 played an important role in mediating host innate immune response to pathogen invasion, and disclosed the involvement of maIRAK1BP1 in NF-κB-mediated production of proinflammatory cytokines, which provided foundational insights into the conserved role of IRAK1BP1 in teleost immune regulation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Assisted reproductive technology (ART) is widely used to treat infertility, a global health burden. Controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH) is a crucial first step in ART that enables the collection of a large number of mature oocytes. Ovarian reserve (OR), namely, the number and quality of primordial follicles, indicates female reproductive potential and is an important determinant of infertility treatment outcomes. However, changes in the immune response and related regulatory mechanisms at single-cell resolution in patients with varying levels of OR during COH remain unclear. In this study, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was performed on peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) samples obtained from 4 patients with a normal OR (N group), 4 with a diminished OR (D group), and 4 with a high OR (H group) before (B group) and after COH (A group). Single-cell transcriptome profiling revealed 20 cell clusters and cell distribution patterns. GDT, CD8 Teff and CD4 naïve T cells were enriched predominantly in the NA, HA and DA groups, respectively. We also identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) with similar patterns between the NA and NB groups and between the HA and HB groups. An analysis of intercellular communication revealed variable changes in cell-cell interactions, and the candidate ligand-receptor pair HLA-B/KIR3DL2 was identified in the HA group compared with the HB group. Moreover, we detected systematic proinflammatory features in NA and HA patients accompanied by upregulated expression of proinflammatory genes, including JUN, JUNB, NFKBIA, MAP3K8 and CCL5. We also identified essential transcription factors (TFs) related to follicle development and maturation. This study provides new information on the specific regulatory role of the immune response in COH that will facilitate the identification of potential targets to improve infertility treatment outcomes in patients with varying levels of OR.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Background and Objectives: The clinical differentiation of peripheral involvement within the spondyloarthritis (SpA) spectrum remains a significant challenge. Identifying patients at the stage of psoriasis without clinical arthritis (PsO), before the onset of overt arthritis, is crucial for early disease management. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as potential epigenetic regulators in inflammatory rheumatic diseases. This study aimed to identify circulating miRNA profiles that serve as discriminative biomarkers between PsO and peripheral SpA (p-SpA). Materials and Methods: This exploratory study was conducted in two phases. In the preliminary discovery phase, plasma miRNA expression was analyzed using high-throughput microarrays in patients with p-SpA (modeled by peripheral psoriatic arthritis, n = 6), PsO (psoriasis without clinical arthritis, n = 3), and osteoarthritis (n = 3). In the validation phase, candidate miRNAs were verified using TaqMan-based qPCR in an independent cohort (n = 30) of various SpA phenotypes, categorized into those with peripheral arthritis (SpA-A) and those without (SpA-N). Results: The preliminary discovery phase identified altered levels of hsa-miR-140-5p, hsa-miR-192-5p, and hsa-miR-146a-5p among the groups; however, due to the small sample size, these initial findings required strict downstream verification. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that these candidate miRNAs primarily targeted the NF-κB signaling pathway (hsa04064) and Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling pathway (hsa04620). The validation cohort confirmed that these three miRNAs could reliably differentiate SpA-A from SpA-N patients. Furthermore, bioinformatic mapping predicted that downstream targets, including TRAF6, IRAK1, and CXCL2, may be associated with these clinical phenotypes, serving as hypothesis-generating observations for future studies. Conclusions: Our findings suggest that specific plasma miRNA profiles are associated with the inflammatory pathways driving peripheral involvement in the SpA spectrum. These miRNAs represent potential biomarkers associated with peripheral arthritis in the SpA spectrum. While they offer new molecular insights into disease pathogenesis, their predictive value for identifying PsO patients at risk of developing overt arthritis requires confirmation in future longitudinal studies.
Background/Objectives: Allergic rhinitis (AR) is a highly prevalent chronic inflammatory disease of the upper airway characterized by immune dysregulation. This study aimed to systematically characterize the immunomodulatory landscape of AR and identify exploratory molecular and cellular features associated with disease-related immune remodeling. Methods: Public bulk transcriptomic datasets and single-cell RNA sequencing data were integrated to identify immunomodulatory-related differentially expressed genes (IMRDEGs), construct an immunomodulatory score (IM.Score), evaluate immune cell infiltration, and characterize cell-type composition and intercellular communication. Machine learning was used to derive an exploratory molecular signature, and L1000CDS2-based drug repositioning analysis was performed to identify in silico candidate compounds predicted to oppose AR-associated transcriptional signatures. Results: A total of 12 IMRDEGs were identified and used to construct the IM.Score, which was lower in AR samples relative to control samples. Immune infiltration analysis demonstrated that IM.Score stratification was associated with distinct immune microenvironmental profiles. Single-cell analysis revealed potential reductions in CD4+ central memory T cells, which represent an immune cellular alteration requiring further experimental verification, alongside attenuated intercellular communication involving this cell population. A six-gene exploratory molecular signature comprising NFKBIA, PDCD1, MYC, IFNG, FOXP3, and CD274 showed favorable performance in the training cohort (AUC = 0.992, 95% CI: 0.974-1.000) but failed to generalize in the external validation cohort (AUC = 0.500, 95% CI: 0.245-0.755), precluding clinical diagnostic interpretation at this stage. Drug repositioning analysis identified candidate compounds, including narciclasine and BRD-K91370081, with the potential to reverse AR-associated transcriptional alterations. Conclusions: This integrative multi-omics analysis identifies coordinated molecular, cellular, and communication-level immune alterations in AR. The IM.Score, altered CD4+ central memory T-cell abundance, and six-gene exploratory molecular signature may be regarded as hypothesis-generating candidate clues pending further experimental and clinical validation.
Inflammation is essential for host defense, but, when dysregulated, it contributes to tissue damage and chronic disease. MicroRNA-146a (miR-146a) is a well-recognized negative regulator of inflammatory signaling, primarily through suppression of the NF-κB pathway; however, its broader proteomic impact under inflammatory conditions remains incompletely defined. In this study, we overexpressed an miR-146a mimic in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated RAW 264.7 macrophages and applied quantitative mass spectrometry to characterize global protein abundance changes. Functional overexpression was supported by reduced mRNA abundance of the established miR-146a targets TRAF6 and IRAK1 under LPS-stimulated conditions. Proteomic analysis identified 1232 proteins showing differential abundance under the predefined exploratory criteria, including proteins related to NF-κB activity, inflammasome components, nitric oxide synthesis, and IL-6-associated pathways. Proteins linked to interferon-related signaling were also altered. Targeted validation by quantitative RT-PCR and parallel reaction monitoring supported changes in selected inflammatory mediators, including PTGS2, NOS2, MAPKAPK2, and IRF3. Functionally, miR-146a overexpression was associated with reduced LPS-induced nitric oxide and IL-6 production. Together, these findings provide an exploratory proteomic overview of pathways associated with miR-146a overexpression in activated macrophages and suggest that miR-146a is associated with modulation of multiple inflammatory signaling networks under inflammatory conditions.
Chronic microglial neuroinflammation is a core driver of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Wei et al. recently reported a blood-brain barrier (BBB)-penetrating, microglia-targeting nanomodulator (Res@TcMNP/ASO) that simultaneously suppressed NF-κB signaling and enhanced NRF2-dependent antioxidant defense in chronically activated microglia, yet the molecular node coupling these two opposing circuits was not identified. In this perspective, drawing on primary literature spanning microglial inflammation, neuronal genome maintenance, tau regulation, and oncology, I propose that sirtuin 6 (SIRT6) is a plausible upstream candidate for this coordinated effect. SIRT6, a NAD+-dependent chromatin deacetylase, restrains NF-κB through H3K9 deacetylation at RELA target promoters and, in parallel, deacetylates and stabilizes NRF2 to amplify antioxidant transcription; its decline in the aging and AD brain promotes DNA damage and GSK3-driven tau hyperphosphorylation. Because a microglia-restricted carrier confines pathway modulation to the relevant cell population, this delivery strategy is well matched to a SIRT6-centered mechanism, while the context-dependent, potentially oncogenic nature of systemic SIRT6 activation reinforces the rationale for such restricted delivery. I outline specific loss- and gain-of-function experiments to test whether microglial SIRT6 mediates the dual-pathway effects of Res@TcMNP/ASO, offering a falsifiable hypothesis to guide future mechanistic and therapeutic work.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL), caused by Leishmania donovani, is characterised by progressive immune dysregulation that supports parasite persistence. The CD40-CD40L axis is essential for antigen-presenting cell (APC) licensing and Th1-mediated nitric oxide-dependent parasite control; however, how its function evolves during infection remains incompletely understood. Here, we define the temporal regulation and functional polarity of CD40 signalling during experimental VL.Using BALB/c mice and primary macrophage assays, we investigated the temporal regulation of CD40 signalling during experimental VL. CD40 expression, cytokine production, nitric oxide levels, antibody responses, T-cell phenotypes, immune checkpoint expression, and macrophage activation were evaluated during progressive infection. Functional studies included CD40 agonism, CD40 knockdown, and TRAF-selective CD40 reconstitution to assess stage-specific effects on parasite control and immune regulation.Increasing parasite burden drove a gradual shift in CD40 signalling from protective to suppressive outcomes. In vitro infection reduced CD40 expression and IL-12 production while increasing IL-10, indicating early impairment of APC licensing. In vivo, progressive splenic infection was associated with diminished nitric oxide production, a declining IgG2a/IgG1 ratio, expansion of GATA3+ Th2 and FOXP3+ regulatory T-cell populations, and increased PD-L1 and TIM-3 expression, consistent with a regulatory and exhausted immune environment. Despite partial recovery of CD40 expression on myeloid APCs at later stages, declining CD40L+ T-cell availability and sustained IL-10/Arg1 signalling limited functional responsiveness. Early CD40 agonism failed to restore parasite control, whereas late activation exacerbated disease. CD40 knockdown increased parasite burden and reduced iNOS+ macrophages, confirming the requirement for CD40-dependent licensing. Finally, TRAF2- biased CD40 signalling promoted macrophage activation and parasite restriction, whereas TRAF6-biased signalling reinforced immunosuppression.These findings identify a stage-dependent functional threshold beyond which CD40 signalling no longer sustains protective immunity during VL, highlighting the importance of restoring APC competence and selectively directing CD40 signalling through TRAF2-linked pathways.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of British Society of Immunology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Diffuse Gastric Cancer (DGC) is an aggressive subtype with a poor prognosis and a lack of specific biomarkers, representing a critical unmet need in oncology. This study aimed to elucidate the key molecular drivers of DGC by integrating RNA-seq data with a multi-faceted bioinformatics approach.We analyzed RNA-seq data from young-onset DGC and normal tissues (GSE113255, GSE122401). Machine learning (ML) feature selection (ReliefF algorithm) was used to prioritize genes, followed by protein-protein interaction network analysis to identify hub genes. Their roles were further investigated through Gene Ontology, KEGG pathway analysis, tumor microenvironment immune infiltration, miRNA-regulatory network analysis, transcription factor prediction, and computational drug repurposing analyses.Our ML‑driven approach identified seven hub genes central to DGC pathogenesis including CCL5, CXCR4, MMP9, FOXP3, IL18, TNFSF11, and TNFSF13B. Among these, three prioritized core hub genes (CXCR4, MMP9, and TNFSF13B) were selected based on statistically significant overexpression and complementary functional roles. Specifically, CXCR4 showed a Fold Change of 3.12 (Log2FC = 1.64, FDR = 0.01), MMP9 exhibited the highest magnitude of upregulation (Fold Change = 16.58, Log2FC = 4.05), and TNFSF13B demonstrated the most statistically significant differential expression (Fold Change = 2.32, Log2FC = 1.21, FDR < 0.000001). High CXCR4 expression was identified as a potential prognostic indicator associated with poorer overall survival in the TCGA‑STAD cohort (HR = 1.5, p = 0.0072). We delineated a core regulatory circuitry where NF‑κB (NFKB1/RELA) masterfully regulates the hub gene network. Drug repurposing analysis nominated several FDA‑approved agents, including the VEGF‑A inhibitor Bevacizumab, which indirectly suppresses CXCR4 and MMP9.This pilot study establishes a robust integrative framework that synergizes ML with network biology. It nominates CXCR4 and TNFSF13B as candidate therapeutic targets and highlights the potential of ML‑based feature selection for discovering biologically relevant, context‑dependent prognostic indicators in DGC. However, we emphasize that these findings are exploratory and hypothesis‑generating, requiring independent validation through experimental studies and larger cohorts before any clinical translation.Copyright: © 2026 Azni et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Heart failure (HF) is increasingly recognized as a systemic disorder that extends beyond the heart and affects neurovascular tissues, including the retina. However, the mechanisms by which circulating factors from HF trigger retinal neuroinflammation remain unclear.HF was induced in adult mice by transverse aortic constriction (TAC). Retinal structure and function were evaluated using optical coherence tomography (OCT) and electroretinography (ERG). Parabiosis and plasma transfer experiments were performed to assess the role of circulating factors. Endothelial senescence, microglial activation, and inflammatory signaling were analyzed using immunofluorescence, qPCR, and molecular assays. The functional relevance of TGFβ2 and microglia was tested using anti-TGFβ2 antibody administration and microglial depletion with PLX5622 treatment.TAC mice exhibited pronounced retinal thinning, diminished electroretinography (ERG) amplitudes, and reduced vascular density. Exposure of healthy mice to HF plasma reproduced these abnormalities, indicating that circulating mediators drive retinal injuries. TGFβ2 levels were markedly elevated in the plasma of both patients with HF and TAC mice. Mechanistically, TGFβ2 activated the pSMAD2/EP300 pathway in retinal endothelial cells, promoting H3K9 acetylation, P21 induction, and endothelial cell senescence. Senescent endothelial cells release proinflammatory factors that activate retinal microglia, leading to hypertrophic morphology, enhanced synaptic phagocytosis, and upregulation of cytokines such as IL1β, TNFα, and IL6. Neutralization of TGFβ2 or microglial depletion markedly reduced inflammation, preserved the retinal architecture, and restored visual function.Elevated TGFβ2 levels in heart failure drive retinal endothelial epigenetic senescence, which secondarily activates microglia and induces neuroinflammation. Endothelial-specific disruption of TGFβ2 signaling is sufficient to protect the retina independently of primary cardiac recovery. Targeting the TGFβ2-endothelial-microglia axis may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for preventing retinal neurovascular degeneration associated with systemic cardiac disease.© The author(s).
Antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) have emerged as promising cancer therapeutics; however, predicting their pharmacokinetics (PK) in humans remains challenging, particularly during early development. Therefore, we aimed to develop a practical translational approach to estimate the human PK profiles of ADCs and their cytotoxic payloads using nonclinical data. PK data from nine FDA and PMDA approved ADCs were analyzed. Allometric scaling (exponent = 1.0) was applied to the PK parameters in monkeys to predict the clearance and volume of distribution in humans, which had a high accuracy (within two-fold of the observed clinical values). Subsequently, compartment models were constructed for four ADCs, and the payload release rate constant (krel) was estimated by fitting the monkey ADC and payload concentration-time profiles. The estimated krel values were then directly applied to simulate human payload concentration-time profiles. The predicted human payload exposures were mostly within three-fold of the clinical data, regardless of differences in the linker type. In conclusion, this study demonstrates the use of a simple, single species scaling method using direct antibody measurements for the robust prediction of ADC and payload PK in humans. Our approach provides novel and efficient dose selection and risk assessment with minimal preclinical data.Copyright © 2026 The Japanese Society for the Study of Xenobiotics. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
We report a case of a uterine mesenchymal tumor with myogenic differentiation and SRF::RELA fusion occurring in a 23-year-old woman manifesting as an endometrial polyp. The tumor consisted of bland spindle cells with a predominantly fascicular growth pattern and entrapment of the endometrial glands and vessels. The tumor was positive for smooth muscle markers and CD10. NGS RNA analysis revealed SRF::RELA fusion. NGS DNA analysis revealed no pathogenic variants or copy-number alterations. On follow-up 12 months after curettage, the patient showed no signs of the disease. To the best of our knowledge, only 3 cases of uterine tumors with SRF::RELA fusion arising in the gynecologic tract have been described previously, and all show benign behavior so far. Differential diagnosis includes both benign and potentially aggressive entities, such as leiomyoma, inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor, perivascular epithelioid cell tumor, uterine adenosarcoma, low-grade endometrial stromal sarcoma, and uterine sarcoma with KAT6B/A::KANSL1 fusion.Copyright © 2026 by the International Society of Gynecological Pathologists.
Emodin exhibits various pharmacological activities, including hepatoprotective effects. However, its clinical application is limited by poor absorption and low oral bioavailability. This study aimed to optimize emodin through benzoylation and to assess the hepatoprotective potential of the resulting derivatives integrating bioinformatics and in vitro methods.We conducted network pharmacology, molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations to predict potential targets and interactions of benzoylated emodin derivatives. The derivatives were synthesized and evaluated for cytotoxicity using the MTT assay. The hepatoprotective effects were assessed in vitro using a paracetamol-induced HepG2 cell injury model.Network pharmacology analysis and gene expression profiling identified four major targets-HSP90AA1, MAPK14, RELA, and PRKACA-as key liver disease-related targets of emodin and its derivatives. Molecular docking study revealed that the benzoylated emodin derivatives exhibited generally lower (more negative) binding energies compared to emodin across all four targets. MD simulations confirmed that the complex RELA with these derivatives is more stable than with emodin. These findings were consistent with in vitro assays, emodin and its derivatives increased cell viability or protected the cells up to 60-70%.This study provides a comprehensive evaluation of benzoylated emodin derivatives as potential hepatoprotective agents. The findings suggest that these derivatives exhibit binding affinity toward important targets related to cirrhosis, reduced toxicity to cells, and enhanced the efficacy in protecting the liver in vitro liver injury model.© the Author(s).
CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ dendritic cells (DCs) are pivotal players in orchestrating anti-tumor immune responses, particularly within tumor tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS). However, their heterogeneity, differentiation trajectories, and clinical relevance in bladder cancer remain incompletely defined. This study integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data (16 bladder cancer patients, 113,905 post-quality-control cells) and spatial transcriptomics to characterize CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets, their differentiation pathways (via Velocyto trajectory analysis), and intercellular crosstalk (via receptor-ligand mapping). A risk model (DTscore) was constructed using marker genes of these cells and validated in the IMvigor210 (atezolizumab-treated bladder cancer) and TCGA-BLCA cohorts. scRNA-seq clustering identified 10 immune and 3 nonimmune cell types, with T cells stratified into 8 subpopulations (including CD4+CXCL13+ T cells and CD8+CXCL13+ T cells) and DCs into 9 subgroups (including LAMP3+ DCs). Receptor-ligand mapping and spatial transcriptomics confirmed functional crosstalk between CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ DCs via key pairs (e.g., CCR7-CCL19, CXCR5-CXCL13, PDCD1-CD274) within TLS. The DTscore was developed using 8 marker genes (TSHZ2, ALOX5AP, GADD45G, TXN, CHN1, CCL19, CXCL13, ICA1) and exhibited robust prognostic and predictive performance: In the IMvigor210 cohort, high DTscore correlated with significantly poorer overall survival (OS) and a 3.27-fold lower immunotherapy response rate (11% vs. 36%, p = 4.23e-07); multivariate Cox regression confirmed DTscore as an independent OS predictor (hazard ratio = 1.97, p < 0.001). DTscore retained prognostic value in TCGA-BLCA (OS: p = 0.003; disease-specific survival: p < 0.001) and effectively predicted atezolizumab response even in the "immune desert" phenotype (p = 0.04). Combining DTscore with tumor mutational burden/tumor neoantigen burden yielded an AUC of 0.8122 for response prediction. Additionally, high DTscore was associated with higher OS hazard ratios in patients with wild-type TTN, RB1, EP300, or FGFR3 (all p < 0.01), while FGFR3 mutations correlated with lower immune checkpoint/CXCL13 expression. This study delineates the heterogeneity and interactions of CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets in bladder cancer TLS and validates DTscore as a robust tool for predicting OS and immunotherapy response, offering a potential guide for personalized bladder cancer treatment.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a hereditary retinal disease characterized by progressive photoreceptor cell (PRC) degeneration. WD repeat domain 34 (WDR34), an intermediate chain of dynein-2, is essential for retrograde intraflagellar transport (IFT). However, the mechanisms by which WDR34 deficiency causes retinal degeneration remain unclear. This study aims to investigate the impact of WDR34 deficiency on retrograde IFT and its contribution to retinal degeneration.WDR34 deficiency was modeled in vivo via subretinal injection of adeno-associated virus-shRNA-WDR34 and in vitro by CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout in 661W cells. Retinal degeneration and IFT defects were assessed by histologic, functional, and ultrastructural analyses. Proteomic analysis followed by in vivo validation was used to investigate the molecular mechanism underlying WDR34-deficient retinal degeneration.WDR34 knockdown induced progressive retinal degeneration characterized by PRC apoptosis, gradual outer nuclear layer thinning, reduced electroretinography responses, and outer segment shortening. WDR34 deficiency impaired retrograde IFT and caused rhodopsin and opsin mislocalization. These alterations induced endoplasmic reticulum stress and unfolded protein response (UPR) activation, activating the IRE1α/TRAF2/NF-κB signaling pathway, ultimately contributing to retinal inflammation and degeneration.WDR34 is crucial for maintaining retrograde IFT in PRCs. WDR34 deficiency disrupts outer segment maintenance and triggers UPR-mediated inflammatory responses and apoptosis, ultimately leading to retinal degeneration. This study reveals a novel mechanistic link among WDR34, retrograde IFT, ciliopathies, and retinal degeneration, providing potential therapeutic insights for ciliopathy-associated RP.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42548510 is a review article
Primary cutaneous T-lymphomas (CTCL), particularly in their early stages, frequently present with clinical and histopathologic features that overlap with atopic dermatitis (AD) and psoriasis, contributing to diagnostic delay and ineffective, or even deleterious, treatment approaches. Thus, minimally invasive molecular tests capable of distinguishing CTCL from benign inflammatory dermatoses are urgently needed.To determine whether tape strip transcriptomics can detect disease-specific signatures distinguishing early-stage CTCL from AD, psoriasis, and healthy control (HC) skin.Bulk RNA sequencing was performed on lesional and non-lesional tape strips from patients with mycosis fungoides (MF) (n=18), AD (n=36), psoriasis (n=32), and HC skin (n=30).Principal component analysis revealed distinct clustering of MF, AD, and psoriasis lesional skin relative to HC. MF displayed a mixed immune profile, contrasting with the strong Th2 and Th17/Th22 immune polarization of AD and psoriasis, respectively. Upregulated MF genes were involved in immune checkpoint regulation (CTLA4, ICOS), lymphoid trafficking (CCR7, CCR8), antigen presentation (HLA-DRA, LAMP3), T-cell survival (TNFSF13B, BIRC3), metabolism (BCAT1, ENPP4, LIPA), as well as cell structure and homeostasis (CLIC2, DOCK10, EPB41L3, MCOLN2, MS4A14, S100B). We identified a 5-marker gene classifier (including IL36A) that accurately distinguished MF from both AD and psoriasis, which was validated in an independent dataset.By capturing MF-specific signatures that are distinct from AD and psoriasis, tape stripping has the potential to serve as a diagnostic tool to help differentiate MF from its non-malignant mimickers.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556656 is a review article
Uveal melanoma (UM) is a challenging malignancy, in terms of diagnosis, risk stratification, and treatment associated with high morbidity and mortality rates. It has been demonstrated that E2F-related pathways play a significant role in the tumorigenesis and distant metastasis of UM. In this study, the E2F target-related genes were utilized to construct and validate a prognostic risk score for patients with UM.Using the TCGA-UVM cohort (n = 80), 192 E2F target genes were screened using gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) to identify survival-associated genes. Prognostic genes were filtered using Kaplan-Meier analysis, univariate Cox regression, and LASSO, followed by multivariate Cox regression to construct a risk score model. The model was validated using the GSE22138 cohort (n = 63). Functional annotations of the risk score and its impact on stratifying tumor immune microenvironment components were assessed.A total of 9 genes (CDC25B, NME1, RFC2, PRDX4, NASP, UBE2S, PRKDC, MCM6, and LBR) passed the model construction pipeline. The risk score categorization system showed an independent prognostic power (HR: 2.34, 95% CI: 1.11-4.90, p = 0.025) and a good predictability of the survival outcome (receiver operating characteristic curve analysis: area under the curve = 0.730, 95% CI: 0.60-0.86, p = 0.002). When analyzing the most frequently mutated gene cohorts, the risk score was significantly lower in the mutated subgroups of GNAQ, SF3B1, and EIF1AX. In contrast, the risk score was notably higher in the BAP1 mutated subgroup. Copy number analysis of chromosomal arms showed significant correlations between the risk score and 1q, 3q, 3p, 6p, 8q. The high-risk group showed significant infiltration for NK cells, plasma B cells, gamma delta T cells, follicular T cells, M1 and M2 macrophages with lower infiltration of common myeloid progenitor cells. In addition, the high-risk group showed higher immune and microenvironment scores.The developed E2F target-related gene model offers a robust tool for predicting the prognosis of UM patients. As a potential risk stratification method for UM, this model could have clinical applications pending further evaluation.© 2026 S. Karger AG, Basel.
We present the case of a 40-day-old female infant with acute febrile illness, cutaneous lesions, severe respiratory distress, and shock refractory to antibiotic therapy. Skin biopsy revealed findings consistent with acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis (Sweet syndrome). After excluding infectious, hematological, and hemophagocytic etiologies, an autoinflammatory syndrome was suspected, and treatment with anakinra and glucocorticoids was initiated, resulting in initial clinical improvement. However, after one year of treatment and dose tapering, the patient experienced relapses. Tocilizumab was then started, leading to a sustained clinical response to date.Copyright © 2026 Sociedad Española de Reumatología (SER), Colegio Mexicano de Reumatología (CMR) and Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.
The toxic mechanisms of norgestrel (NGT), an emerging marine pollutant, on the sperm from externally fertilized invertebrates remain elusive. This study employed an integrated physiological and multi-omics framework to elucidate how NGT (10 and 1000 ng/L) disrupts acrosome reaction (AR) signaling machinery, thereby impairing the functional integrity of Pacific oyster (Crassostrea gigas, also known as Magallana gigas) sperm. Exposure to NGT triggered a significant, dose-dependent premature AR, characterized by elevated acrosin activity and a loss of acrosomal integrity. Multi-omics integration supports a model in which this premature exocytosis is linked to signaling disturbances, including disruption of calcium signaling and reduced transcript abundance of calmodulin (CaM) and the primary recognition protein zonadhesin (Zan). This signaling interference induced an premature AR, subsequently driving a cascade of bioenergetic and structural failures. At the mitochondrial level, NGT induced abnormal mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP) opening and elevated the transcript levels of antioxidant defense genes (e.g., peroxiredoxin-5, PRDX5). These alterations indicate the occurrence of mitochondrial collapse. Concurrently, scanning electron microscopy verified localized plasma membrane wrinkling and pore formation in sperm. In addition, NGT exposure decreased the transcript abundance of cytoskeleton-related genes, including solute carrier family 26 member 6 (SLC26A6), actin (ACT), and tubulin polymerization promoting protein family member 3 (TPPP3). These molecular changes further disrupted membrane phospholipid homeostasis, as represented by altered glycerophospholipid metabolism. At the same time, cumulative cellular stress was associated with decreased transcript abundance of cytoprotective factors (e.g., baculoviral IAP repeat-containing proteins, birc2) and changes in apoptosis-related genes consistent with activation of a caspase-8-mediated apoptotic programme. In conclusion, NGT, as a representative synthetic progestin, exerts reproductive toxicity by interfering with signaling mediators to induce premature AR, which subsequently exhausts metabolic energy and triggers plasma membrane impairment. These findings provide a critical mechanistic basis for the aquatic ecological risk assessment of synthetic progestins.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
This study aimed to investigate whether Huangqi Chongteng Yin(HQCTY) alleviates oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation(OGD/R)-induced injury and mitochondrial dysfunction in mouse hippocampal HT22 neurons by modulating the receptor-interacting protein kinase 1(RIPK1)/receptor-interacting protein kinase 3(RIPK3)/mixed lineage kinase domain-like protein(MLKL)-mediated necroptosis signaling pathway. After preparing HQCTY-containing serum and verifying its safety and efficacy, HT22 cells were divided into the control group, OGD/R group, HQCTY-containing serum low-, medium-, and high-dose groups(5%, 10%, and 20%), and an edaravone(Eda) group. Cell viability and membrane damage were assessed using the cell counting kit-8(CCK-8) assay and lactate dehydrogenase(LDH) release assays, respectively, while nuclear morphology was evaluated by DAPI staining. The expression and phosphorylation levels of RIPK1, RIPK3, and MLKL were detected by Western blot, and the expression and subcellular localization of MLKL and phosphorylated(p)-MLKL were examined by immunofluorescence assay. Mitochondrial membrane potential, energy metabolism, mitochondrial network morphology, and ultrastructural alterations were evaluated using JC-1 staining, ATP assay kit, Mito-Tracker Green staining, and transmission electron microscopy, respectively. In addition, fluorescence staining was performed to assess the morphology of translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20(TOM20) and the cytoskeleton(phalloidin staining). The levels of tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), interleukin-1β(IL-1β), IL-6, and IL-18 were determined by ELISA. The results showed that, compared with the OGD/R group, HQCTY significantly increased HT22 cell viability, reduced LDH release and nuclear condensation, markedly downregulated the protein expression of p-RIPK1/RIPK1, p-RIPK3/RIPK3, and p-MLKL/MLKL, while ameliorating the abnormal localization of p-MLKL. Furthermore, HQCTY significantly improved mitochondrial membrane potential, increased ATP production, and promoted the restoration of mitochondrial network and ultrastructure. It also significantly reduced the levels of TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, and IL-18. These findings indicate that HQCTY may directly protect neurons from OGD/R injury by inhibiting RIPK1/RIPK3/MLKL-mediated necroptosis signaling pathway and improving mitochondrial structure and energy metabolism, thereby providing new insights and intervention strategies for the application of traditional Chinese medicine formulas in neuroprotection after cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury.
Tumour necrosis factor (TNF) is a pleiotropic cytokine originally identified for its ability to kill cancer cells. However, a paradoxical tumour-promoting role for TNF emerged when early attempts to exploit its anti-tumour activity in cancer therapy produced conflicting outcomes, raising the question of whether TNF should be viewed as a therapeutic agent or a treatment target in cancer. Here, we demonstrate that expression of cFLIP, a catalytically inactive paralogue of caspase-8 (CASP8), determines the susceptibility of melanoma cells to TNF and thereby controls melanoma growth in a syngeneic, immune-competent mouse model of B16F10 cutaneous melanoma. B16F10 melanoma cells lacking cFLIP (cFlipKO/KO cells) failed to grow in wild-type mice, whereas in TNF-deficient mice, cFlipKO/KO melanoma cells formed palpable tumours and exhibited robust subcutaneous growth. These findings indicate that TNF alone is sufficient to control melanoma growth in the absence of cFLIP. Importantly, the anti-tumour activity of TNF has predominantly been investigated through targeting cellular inhibitors of apoptosis proteins (cIAPs), which promotes RIPK1 activation and TNF-induced cytotoxicity. We show that genomic ablation of cIAPs or RIPK1, in contrast to cFLIP, neither triggered TNF-induced toxicity nor affected melanoma growth in vivo. Collectively, our data underscore the central role of cFLIP in regulating melanoma responses to TNF and suggest that endogenous immune surveillance as well as immunotherapies involving TNF could strongly benefit from cFLIP targeting strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pulmonary extranodal marginal zone lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (pulmonary MALT lymphoma) is an indolent B-cell lymphoma that can mimic infection, inflammatory disease, or epithelial malignancy. Indeterminate fluorodeoxyglucose-avid abnormalities may complicate staging and lead to overinterpretation of disease extent.A 49-year-old man with no smoking history underwent video-assisted thoracoscopic right lower-lobe superior segmentectomy for a 12 × 9 mm pulmonary nodule. Histopathology and immunohistochemistry supported pulmonary MALT lymphoma, and fluorescence in situ hybridization detected a BIRC3::MALT1 (formerly API2-MALT1) fusion in 35% of analyzed cells. Resection margins were negative; the only separately documented LN7 lymph node showed reactive hyperplasia without lymphoma, and bone marrow examination was negative. PET/CT performed 11 days after surgery showed expected postoperative inflammatory uptake, mildly avid right upper-lobe ground-glass opacities (SUVmax 1.0), and circumferential thickening of the horizontal duodenum (SUVmax 4.0). Review of serial preoperative CT reports showed that the additional right-lung ground-glass opacities had been present since at least January 2021 and were largely stable through March 2025. Gastroscopy showed no duodenal mucosal abnormality, no biopsy was obtained, and the duodenal finding remained essentially unchanged after rituximab-based systemic therapy. The minimum confirmed extent was therefore a resected pulmonary MALT lymphoma without proven nodal, marrow, additional pulmonary, or gastrointestinal involvement.Mild FDG uptake in longstanding pulmonary opacities and an unbiopsied gastrointestinal abnormality should not be interpreted as lymphoma dissemination. Histopathology, immunophenotyping, molecular testing, longitudinal imaging, and pathologic confirmation of suspected additional sites should be integrated before disease extent and treatment response are assigned.Copyright © 2026 Zhang and Cai.
Licoricidin (LCD), a natural isoflavonoid compound extracted from Glycyrrhiza species, has been extensively demonstrated to possess diverse biological activities, including anti-inflammatory and potent anti-cancer effects. However, the precise mechanism underlying LCD action against hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains unclear, particularly regarding its regulation of cell death. In this study, we comprehensively explored the effects of LCD on HCC cells in vitro and investigated its role and mechanism of action in the induction of PANoptosis. Our results reveal that LCD exhibited potent anti-HCC activities by decreasing cell viability and significantly inhibiting clonogenic survival in HCC cell lines. Our results demonstrate that LCD triggered a substantial accumulation of reactive oxygen species and induced depolarization of the mitochondrial membrane, leading to profound mitochondrial dysfunction. We further confirmed that LCD activated a comprehensive PANoptosis program by synchronously upregulating the expression of apoptotic proteins (Bax, c-CASP3, and c-PARP1), pyroptotic proteins (c-CASP 1 and c-GSDMD), and the phosphorylation of necroptotic executioners (p-MLKL and p-RIPK1). Treatment with the ROS inhibitor (NAC), apoptosis inhibitor (ZVAD), or necroptosis inhibitor (Nec-1) significantly reduced the expression of PANoptosis-related proteins in LCD-treated cells. Furthermore, molecular docking simulations and cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA) assay confirmed the direct and stable binding of LCD to PANoptosis-related proteins. In summary, we show for the first time that LCD exerts favorable anti-HCC activities via the induction of PANoptosis through a ROS-dependent mechanism and potntial direct modulation of core executive proteins. This multi-target action suggests that LCD could be a novel candidate for the management of hepatocellular carcinoma.© The author(s).
Recurrence and metastasis are the leading causes of mortality in renal cell carcinoma (RCC), and its intrinsic drug resistance further limits effective therapeutic options. Synergistic activation of multiple regulated cell death pathways has recently emerged as a novel approach to overcome therapeutic resistance. Here, we developed two mitochondria-targeted iridium(III) photosensitizers, Ir-MT1 and Ir-MT2, for synergistic photoimmunotherapy of RCC. Upon white-light irradiation, Ir-MT1/2 induced severe mitochondrial damage and dysfunction, leading to massive release of mitochondrial contents. Mitochondrial DNA leakage activated the cGAS-stimulator of interferon genes pathway and caspase-1-mediated pyroptosis cascade, whereas excessive Ca2+ efflux promoted RIPK1/RIPK3 phosphorylation and induced necroptosis. These death signals facilitated pore formation by gasdermin D and mixed lineage kinase domain-like protein in the plasma membrane, resulting in membrane rupture, release of damage-associated molecular patterns, and immunogenic cell death synergistically. In vivo, Ir-MT1/2 not only effectively suppressed primary tumor growth but also eliminated distant tumors through activation of anti-tumor immunity, exhibiting potent therapeutic efficacy and favorable biosafety. Overall, our work provides the evidence that a single iridium complex can simultaneously trigger pyroptosis-necroptosis synergy, overcoming intrinsic drug resistance and offering a promising strategy for multi-network systemic therapy of RCC.© 2026 The Author(s). Smart Molecules published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Dalian University of Technology.
The clinical outcome of urothelial carcinoma presents significant variability, reflecting its molecular composition, epidemiologic attributes, and primary site of origin. Despite histological similarities, upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) and bladder urothelial carcinoma (BLCA) represent two distinct disease entities with disparate treatment responses and mutational patterns.To assess the impact of molecular heterogeneity on treatment outcomes, we conducted a comprehensive genomic analysis of 231 metastatic urothelial carcinoma patients, including 175 patients with BLCA and 56 patients with UTUC, in the K-MASTER program.Our investigation unveiled dynamic molecular properties and mutational patterns in key molecules, including TP53, FGFR3, CREBBP, and SPEN. BLCA patients demonstrated enrichment of APOBEC mutational signature activities, whereas UTUC patients were characterized by activation of the cell cycle pathway. Transcriptome analysis uncovered unique biological signatures, highlighting increased cell migration and WNT signaling in BLCA, while FGFR3 and stem-cell-like pathways predominated in UTUC. Moreover, our study highlighted increased resistance to platinum-based chemotherapy and immunotherapy among UTUC patients. Importantly, tumor mutational burden (TMB) emerged as a robust independent predictor of immunotherapy response in BLCA. Additionally, a machine learning-based multivariable model identified FGFR3 mutation as a molecular determinant associated with favorable clinical outcomes, in contrast to FGFR2 mutations, which were linked to increased resistance to chemotherapy. The study also has limitations, including a limited sample size of UTUC patients and a lack of functional validation of the identified molecular mechanism.Our findings provide unprecedented insights into the significance of molecular and clinical disparities in urothelial carcinoma, facilitating disease-specific treatment interventions.
NLRC3 serves as a critical negative regulator of inflammatory signalling pathways and is implicated in the pathogenesis of multiple disorders, including inflammatory diseases and malignancies. However, the specific functions and underlying mechanisms of NLRC3 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) development remain largely elusive. Here, we report that the expression of NLRC3 was downregulated in HCC tissues and was associated with poor prognosis. Mice deficient in NLRC3 were hypersusceptible to chemically induced hepatocarcinogenesis, and NLRC3 exerted a tumour-suppressive function during HCC development by inhibiting the TRAF6/MYC/NF-κB signalling cascade. Mechanistically, the NLRC3-HSP90 interaction competitively inhibited the binding of the HSP90 chaperone to TRAF6/MYC and impaired the K63-linked ubiquitination and stabilization of the TRAF6/MYC proteins. In the absence of NLRC3, TRAF6 and MYC reciprocally regulated the expression of the other and triggered a TRAF6-MYC positive feedback loop that accelerated the progression of HCC. Our study reveals a novel functional link between NLRC3 and MYC signalling and indicates that HSP90 is a potential target for hindering the progression of NLRC3-deficient HCC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Ischemic stroke (IS) currently lacks well-characterized peripheral-blood biomarkers that capture early, pathway-level biology. Programmed cell death (PCD) pathways may shape post-stroke neuroinflammation and could yield clinically informative transcriptional signatures.Public cohorts (GSE16561 discovery; GSE58294 external test) were analyzed. We quantified sample-level pan-PCD activity using ssGSEA based on a curated PCD gene set,identified PCD-associated modules via WGCNA, and intersected with limma-derived DEGs. Two complementary machine learning (LASSO and SVM-RFE) were used to select compact candidate biomarkers. Diagnostic performance was evaluated by ROC analysis. Immune infiltration was inferred by ssGSEA (28 immune signatures) and correlated with candidate genes. Drug candidates were prioritized using Enrichr/DSigDB and explored by molecular docking. In vivo validation in a rat MCAO model was additionally performed at the brain-tissue level.A pan-PCD score was higher in IS than controls and guided WGCNA to a PCD-associated module. Intersection with DEGs yielded 58 PCD-related genes. LASSO and SVM-RFE converged on three biomarkers-CREBBP, ANTXR2, and ARG1. These genes showed consistent discriminative performance in both discovery (AUCs: 0.937-0.981) and external test cohorts (AUCs: 0.656-0.931) and were associated with neutrophil-skewed immune infiltration. In vivo validation in a rat MCAO model confirmed upregulation of all three genes in ischemic brain tissue. Enrichr/DSigDB prioritization and docking highlighted papaverine (CREBBP) and trichostatin A (ANTXR2) as plausible leads.An integrative network-ML framework delineated a peripheral-blood pan-PCD-related transcriptional pattern in IS and prioritized three biomarkers with consistent diagnostic performance and a neutrophil-skewed immune context. The exploratory pathway-gene-drug framework proposed here nominates testable compounds and provides a basis for prospective multi-cohort validation and mechanistic studies.Copyright © 2026 Jia, Zhang, Liu, Sang, Chen, Shao, Ding, Bai and Huang.
NOD-like receptor (NLR) family CARD domain containing 3 (NLRC3), an intracellular member of the NLR family, is a negative regulator of both immune cell modulation and tumor cell proliferation. However, the role of NLRC3 and the mechanisms underlying its effect on the tumor immune microenvironment remain unclear. In this study, we report that NLRC3 promotes antitumor immunity by specifically negatively regulating the infiltration and immunosuppressive function of monocytic myeloid-derived suppressor cells (M-MDSCs). Mechanistically, NLRC3 inhibits the stimulator of interferon genes (STING) signaling pathway, leading to reduced expression of programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) and CCR2 in M-MDSCs, thereby limiting the infiltration and immunosuppressive function of M-MDSCs. Notably, overexpression of NLRC3 in combination with the STING agonist c-GAMP significantly inhibited tumor growth. These findings reveal a critical role for NLRC3 in modulating the immune microenvironment and provide insights into the optimization of NLRC3-targeted therapeutics.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to CSI and USTC.
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is genetically heterogeneous. We aimed to define a compartment-aware driver mutation landscape of DLBCL by integrating tumor tissue and circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) sequencing, and to assess its biological and prognostic relevance.Somatic mutations were analyzed from targeted sequencing of tumor tissue or bone marrow and cfDNA from peripheral blood or cerebrospinal fluid, including paired tissue-liquid samples, together with whole-genome sequencing data from TCGA. Driver genes were identified using four complementary algorithms. Functional enrichment and protein-protein interaction analyses were performed. Prognostic relevance was evaluated using multigene expression-based modeling with Cox and LASSO regression in independent cohorts.Recurrent driver alterations converged on core pathogenic pathways, including B-cell receptor signaling, NF-κB activation, epigenetic regulation, and immune escape. Twenty-two high-confidence driver genes, including PIM1, KMT2D, CD79B, B2M, TP53, MYC, and EZH2, were consistently identified across clinical cohorts and supported by TCGA data. cfDNA profiling showed substantial concordance with tissue-derived drivers while revealing gene-specific differences in mutation burden and co-mutation patterns, indicating complementary capture of clinically relevant heterogeneity. Network analysis highlighted TP53, MYC, EP300, and CREBBP as central hubs. A four-gene expression-based model (MYC, PLCL1, IRF8, LNPEP) stratified patients by overall survival and modestly improved prognostic discrimination beyond the International Prognostic Index.Integrated analysis of tumor tissue and cfDNA sequencing defines a clinically relevant driver framework for DLBCL. cfDNA preserves core oncogenic signals while complementing tissue profiling, supporting refined genomic risk stratification.
Congenital heart defects (CHD) constitute a prevalent group of structural birth anomalies, characterised by substantial genetic heterogeneity and diverse clinical phenotypes.To investigate the underlying genetic architecture, we performed whole-genome sequencing (WGS) in a cohort of 50 patients with echocardiographically confirmed CHD, followed by systematic variant identification and functional annotation.Our analysis reveals the limited discriminatory capacity of current genomic annotation databases and underscores the necessity of stratifying genetic risk assessments by specific CHD subtypes. By integrating clinical classifications, genomic data, and tissue-specific expression profiles, we identified novel coding and non-coding variants alongside putative regulatory signals that may contribute to CHD pathogenesis. Within cardiac-specific genes, we identified CHD subtype-specific genetic associations, including JARID2 with PDA, GOSR2/TBX18 with VSD, PCDHA9 with ASD, and a multi-gene signature (CREBBP, ZFPM2, SLC27A6, ADAM17, ETS1) with atrioventricular septal defects. Among coding variants in non-CHD-associated genes, we identified COL11A2 and PCOLCE2 as plausible collagen-related candidates for CHD pathogenesis.These findings reinforce the polygenic architecture of CHD and highlight the value of context-aware, phenotype-driven interpretation of genetic variants. Collectively, this study expands the understanding of the genetic landscape underlying congenital heart anomalies and emphasises the need for larger, deeply phenotyped cohorts to translate these preliminary insights into clinically applicable predictors.© 2026 Korobeinikova, Petriaikina, Tychinin, Yudin, Bulaeva, Gyulmamedova, Khugaev, Sukhacheva, Snigir, Mitrofanov, Rumyantseva, Svetlichnyy, Yudin, Golukhova and Skvortsova.
Reproductive characteristics in pigs exhibit low heritability levels. Performing genome-wide association studies (GWAS) to pinpoint candidate genes for these characteristics is crucial for enhancing swine fertility. In this research, hair samples were gathered from 689 French Large White sows within the primary breeding population for DNA extraction purposes. Genotyping was carried out using a 50K liquid-phase SNP chip. Four statistical approaches-MLM, CMLM, FarmCPU, and BLINK-were utilized to perform GWAS on nine reproductive characteristics: total number born (TNB), litter birth weight (LBW), number born alive (NBA), number of healthy births (NHB), number of weak piglets (NWP), number of stillbirths (NSB), number of mummies (MUM), number of deformed fetuses (NDF), and adjusted 21-day litter weight (ALW). siRNAs targeting significantly associated genes were designed, and viral transfection was employed to introduce them into the ovarian granulosa cells of Large White sows to explore gene functions; transcriptome sequencing of granulosa cells treated with DNAH6 siRNA was conducted to investigate the gene's action mechanism. The analysis indicated that both MLM and CMLM models identified a significant locus linked to the total number of piglets born, with the SNP positioned at 3-60064515, associated with the DNAH6 gene. Disruption of the DNAH6 gene notably reduced the proliferation of ovarian granulosa cells (p < 0.05). Transcriptome sequencing results suggest that DNAH6 may support the normal transcriptional activity of the cAMP signaling pathway by maintaining EP300 and CREBBP expression in porcine ovarian granulosa cells, while potentially inhibiting the anti-proliferative effects of the FoxO pathway. This potential mechanism may help sustain the proliferative ability of granulosa cells and promote normal follicular development, which may ultimately contribute to an increase in the total number of piglets born in sows. These results offer a potential candidate marker for enhancing the total number born of French Large White sows.
In order to reveal the molecular response characteristics of different tissues of Megalobrama amblycephala under ammonia nitrogen stress, the liver, gill, muscle, kidney and brain tissues of juvenile Megalobrama amblycephala (12.05 ± 0.04 g) under 25 mg/L ammonium chloride stress were used as the research objects. The transcriptome sequencing technology was used to systematically analyze the transcriptional expression changes. A total of 204.42 Gb transcription data were obtained, and a total of 3039 DEGs were detected, of which 1331 genes were up-regulated and 1708 genes were down-regulated. Ten DEGs were randomly selected for quantitative qRT-PCR analysis, and the results confirmed that the transcriptome results were reliable. Multi-organ synergy analysis suggested that overlapping DEGs (e.g., ZNF239, DMBT1, NLRC3, MHC-I, and CCL8) may exhibit similar or opposing regulatory patterns across organs, potentially reflecting complementary and coordinated mechanisms in immune regulation, inflammatory responses, energy allocation, and detoxification strategies among organ systems. GO and KEGG pathway enrichment analysis of differentially expressed genes showed that ammonia nitrogen mainly affected immune inflammation-related processes, material transport and degradation, protein homeostasis maintenance, oxidative stress defense, membrane lipid metabolism remodeling, and energy metabolism regulation. In different tissues, genes related to specific functions are enriched according to their physiological roles: in the liver, genes related to detoxification and damage clearance are enriched; in the gill, genes related to barrier defense and antioxidant/detoxification are enriched; in the kidney, genes related to damage response and metabolic regulation are enriched; in the brain, genes related to membrane lipid homeostasis and protective stress are enriched; and in the muscle, genes related to energy metabolism and structural function adjustment are enriched. This study elucidated the multi-tissue response characteristics of Megalobrama amblycephala under ammonia nitrogen stress at the transcriptome level, providing fundamental data and references for further clarifying the mechanisms of ammonia nitrogen toxicity in fish and screening stress-responsive marker genes.
Mammals native to hypoxic niches thrive in hypoxic environments, unlike humans and non-adapted species which suffer metabolic dysfunction and disease. Despite progress in understanding hypoxic signaling, the evolutionary strategies enabling niche-specific hypoxia adaptation remain unclear. To address this, we analyzed 21 species representing three hypoxic niches (aquatic deep-diving, terrestrial high-altitude, terrestrial burrowing) and non-hypoxic controls based on identified 25 HIF1A pathway-related core genes. In the coding region, selection pressure analysis initially identified key genes: aquatic deep-diving: CREBBP; terrestrial high-altitude: EGLN1, EGLN2, ELOC and TP53; terrestrial burrowing: EGLN3. Convergent amino acid substitution analysis at the protein level validated these findings and further refined the selection to the most representative key genes for each niche (aquatic deep-diving: CREBBP; terrestrial high-altitude: EGLN1; terrestrial burrowing: EGLN3). Subsequently, non-coding region analysis revealed the specific regulatory patterns of the key genes across the three hypoxic niches: aquatic deep-diving corresponds to acute transient hypoxia adaptation, terrestrial high-altitude exhibits chronic fluctuating hypoxia adaptation, and terrestrial burrowing demonstrates long-term stable hypoxia adaptation. In addition, hypoxia adaptation analysis of the solid tumor in several cancers showed that domain mutations in the core gene CREBBP in the HIF1A signaling pathway contribute to the malignant behavior of cancers. This indicates that distinct hypoxic niches and their key genes have evolved unique regulatory mechanisms for adaptation. The study suggests mammals exploit diverse strategies by modulating key HIF1A pathway gene expression, providing novel insights into hypoxic signaling in evolutionary adaptation to oxygen deprivation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Uterine Leiomyosarcoma (ULMS), characterized by diagnostic and therapeutic challenges, remains poorly understood despite advancements. Previous research identified genetic mutations in ULMS samples, suggesting their role in pathogenesis. This study deepened the exploration, focusing on specific genes (KMT2D, CREBBP, NOTCH2, ATM, TSC2, GNAS), validating mutations, examining gene methylation, and correlating with clinical features. Thirty samples, including 15 Formalin-Fixed Paraffin-Embedded (FFPE) and 15 fresh-frozen ULMS, were collected, comprising 3 ULMS, 3 Uterine Leiomyomas (ULM), 3 Myometrial samples (MM), and 6 other Uterine Sarcomas (US) for each sample set. Two cell lines, ULM (THESCs - CRL ‒ 4003) and ULMS (SK-UT-1 ‒ HTB-114), were used for comprehensive analysis. FFPE samples underwent genomic DNA extraction using the QIAamp DNA FFPE Tissue Kit, and methylation levels were assessed using the Illumina Infinium Methylation EPIC BeadChip 850k system. Genomic DNA and RNA were extracted using the Trizol method. qRT-PCR with TaqMan assays analyzed gene expression. Mutations in CREBBP, NOTCH2, and GNAS were sequenced using the Sanger method. Results indicated downregulation in CREBBP, GNAS, and NOTCH2 genes in ULMS. Sequencing revealed specific mutations (e.g., c.4063G>A in CREBBP, T>A at position 78 in NOTCH2). A pronounced reduction in CpG region methylation suggested a unique epigenetic alteration in ULMS. Methylation with clinical outcomes identified ATM as a potential independent prognostic biomarker. In conclusion, this study provides a comprehensive view of ULMS molecular complexity, potentially influencing clinical practices.Copyright © 2026 HCFMUSP. Published by Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.
Acute lung injury (ALI) is a life-threatening pulmonary disorder characterized by dysregulated inflammatory responses, excessive activation of pro-inflammatory M1 macrophages, severe oxidative stress, and potentially fatal cytokine storms. Conventional therapies are severely limited by poor targeting of the inflammatory microenvironment and insufficient cellular uptake by hyperactivated immune cells. To address these translational barriers, we developed a "cellular hitchhiking" nanoplatform by coating selenium-doped carbon quantum dots (SC) with bacterial outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) derived from the probiotic Escherichia coli Nissle 1917. This biomimetic nanoparticle (SC@OMV) leverages pathogen-associated molecular patterns naturally present in OMVs to achieve precise targeted delivery and highly efficient internalization by pulmonary macrophages via pattern recognition receptors. Following cellular uptake, SC efficiently scavenges excessive reactive oxygen species and promotes macrophage repolarization from the pro-inflammatory M1 phenotype toward the tissue-reparative M2 phenotype. In vivo evaluations using an LPS-induced ALI mouse model demonstrated that intravenously administered SC@OMVs preferentially accumulate in inflamed lung tissues. Moreover, SC@OMVs effectively suppressed cytokine storms and promoted the repair of the alveolar-capillary barrier by modulating the TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB signaling pathway. By synergistically integrating the targeted biological delivery capabilities of OMVs with the potent intracellular immunomodulatory and antioxidant properties of selenium, the use of SC@OMVs represents a highly promising, precise therapeutic strategy for the comprehensive management of ALI.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564392 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563981 is a review article
Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell immunotherapy has achieved remarkable success in hematologic malignancies, prompting the exploration of CAR strategies in solid tumors. Here, we developed a CAR-like signal-switching receptor-macrophage (SR CAR-M) that recognizes IL-10, a major immunosuppressive cytokine enriched in solid tumors, and converts this inhibitory signal into a pro-inflammatory activation through the Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9) intracellular signaling pathway. SR CAR-Ms effectively blocked IL-10-mediated STAT3 phosphorylation while activating TLR9 downstream signaling, including nuclear translocation of nuclear factor-κB and upregulation of IRF1, thereby adopting an M1-like phenotype with enhanced phagocytic capacity and tumor cytotoxicity. Domain-deletion controls demonstrated that both IL-10 binding and TLR9 signaling are indispensable. In addition, SR CAR-Ms promoted dendritic cell maturation, enhanced T cell proliferation and effector function, and prevented T cell exhaustion. In an orthotopic 4T1 breast cancer model, infused SR CAR-Ms selectively accumulated in tumors, depleted local IL-10 while inducing inflammatory cytokine production, suppressed tumor growth, and prolonged survival without systemic toxicity. The signal-switching mechanism was validated in primary bone marrow-derived macrophages and human monocyte-derived macrophages, supporting the translational applicability. Further enhancement was achieved by engineering dual-function SRPα CAR-Ms secreting anti-PD-L1 antibodies, which outperformed either SR CAR-M or anti-PD-L1 monotherapy. The SR CAR-M platform transforms an immunosuppressive cytokine into a location-specific activation trigger, simultaneously depleting the inhibitory signal and remodeling the tumor microenvironment. This signal-switching paradigm offers a versatile approach for treating solid malignancies that are resistant to conventional immunotherapies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) can cause diarrheal disease in both humans and young livestock, posing substantial challenges to intestinal health. This study investigated the protective effects and mechanisms of encapsulated tannic acid (ETA) against ETEC-induced intestinal injury. ETA was successfully prepared, and in vitro digestion experiments showed that the release rate of tannic acid was 10.27% in simulated gastric fluid, with a cumulative release rate of 78.97% in simulated intestinal fluid after 360 min, indicating its excellent controlled-release property. In vivo, 500 mg/kg ETA was selected as the optimal dose and alleviated ETEC-induced growth inhibition, reduced the spleen weight ratio, and mitigated intestinal inflammation. Histologically, ETA improved intestinal morphology by increasing villus height and decreasing crypt depth, and its efficacy was better than that of TA. ETA also attenuated inflammation by downregulating TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-8 and the TLR4/MYD88/TAK1 pathway, relieved oxidative stress by increasing SOD activity and decreasing MDA content, and restored intestinal barrier function. Additionally, In vitro, 0.6% ETA digestion supernatant alleviated ETEC-induced damage in IPEC-J2 cells. ETA also reshaped ETEC-induced cecal microbiota dysbiosis by reducing α-diversity, increasing the abundance of beneficial bacteria and decreasing pathogenic bacteria, and restored short-chain fatty acid levels. Mechanistically, antibiotic-induced gut microbiota depletion abolished the protective effects of ETA, while fecal microbiota transplantation from ETA-treated donors replicated these protective effects. These findings demonstrate that ETA attenuates ETEC-induced intestinal injury through gut microbiota modulation, providing a promising strategy for the prevention and treatment of bacterial enteritis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42562244 is a review article
Sea cucumber is a high-value marine food that contains characteristic bioactive components, notably saponins and polysaccharides. Strategies promoting their biosynthesis to improve sea cucumber quality are vital for the industry. The impacts of three dietary yeast β-glucans (native β-glucan, ultrasonic-degraded low-molecular-weight β-glucan, and carboxymethylated β-glucan) on the biosynthesis of saponin and fucosylated chondroitin sulfate (FCS) in A. japonicus and the underlying mechanism were investigated. A 28-day feeding trial showed that modified β-glucans improved growth performance and immune responses, as well as elevated the body wall accumulation of saponin and FCS. Mechanistically, modified β-glucans up-regulated the genes involved in the saponin and FCS biosynthesis, including the core mevalonate pathway (hmgcr, mvk, mvd), downstream post-squalene modifications (sqle), and chondroitin backbone biosynthesis (xylt1, chsy1, chpf). Moreover, these β-glucans up-regulated the TLR-MAPK signaling axis genes (tlr, myd88, irak4, traf6, tak1, mkk1, erk, p38) and increased p38/ERK protein abundance and phosphorylation levels. In vivo MAPK inhibition attenuated β-glucan-induced saponin and FCS accumulation and the expression of hmgcr, sqle, xylt1, and chsy1. Our findings reveal that modified β-glucans enhance A. japonicus quality by promoting saponin and FCS biosynthesis in association with the TLR-MAPK signaling axis-mediated immune-metabolic crosstalk.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Following spinal cord injury (SCI), activated microglia sustain neuroinflammation and drive secondary tissue damage, and this limits functional recovery. Myeloid differentiation primary response 88 (MyD88) is a central adaptor of innate immune signaling, but whether and how microglial MyD88 regulates state transition after SCI remains unclear. This study aims to explore the impact of microglial MyD88 signaling on microglial state trajectories and tissue repair after SCI and to develop a microglia-targeted delivery strategy for therapeutic modulation.A forceps-mediated SCI mouse model was established, and bulk and single-cell RNA sequencing were used to profile the temporal activation of microglial MyD88 signaling in the spinal cord. Pharmacological MyD88 inhibition (ST2825) and inducible microglia-specific MyD88 conditional knockout mice (Tmem119 CreERT2;Myd88 fl/fl) were used to assess neuroinflammation, tissue remodeling and downstream signaling. Functional recovery was evaluated by behavioral testing, bidirectional axonal tracing and electrophysiology. For translational validation, microglia membrane-coated, peptide-modified biomimetic nanoparticles (ST2825·DSPE@MG) were engineered to enhance microglia targeting and therapeutic efficacy.Transcriptomic analyses revealed rapid and sustained activation of MyD88 signaling preferentially in microglia after SCI. ST2825 suppressed pro-inflammatory outputs in vitro and in vivo while preserving trophic mediators. Microglia-specific MyD88 deletion reprogrammed injury-activated microglia from a pro-inflammatory state to a repair-associated phenotype, reducing neuronal damage, preserving axons and improving locomotor recovery. TGF-β receptor blockade with LY2109761 abolished the protective effects of MyD88 deficiency. Additionally, ST2825·DSPE@MG nanoparticles exhibited microglia-targeted uptake and conferred superior therapeutic efficacy.Our data establish MyD88 as a critical regulator of microglial reprogramming after SCI and highlight its potential as a therapeutic target for spinal cord repair.© The author(s).
Neospora caninum causes significant losses due to abortions in cattle worldwide. The parasite can establish persistent infections in the central nervous system (CNS). Innate immune recognition, primarily mediated by Toll-like receptors (TLRs), and the expression of cytokines and antimicrobial peptides, such as cathelicidins, during N. caninum infection in neuronal cells remains undefined. This work studied the ability of N. caninum to infect and replicate in the CNS using an in vitro model for neurotropic infections in human neuroblastoma (SH-SY5Y) cells. We showed that N. caninum established productive infections in SH-SY5Y cells, and that the parasite can invade, replicate, and cause cell lysis. Infections with N. caninum induced a time-dependent modulation of the key components of innate immunity, TLR7 and CAMP, in SH-SY5Y cells. At the onset (24 h post-infection), N. caninum decreased TLR7 expression, while CAMP expression was increased. The TLR7-dependent signalling pathway modulated by N. caninum infection included increased MyD88 expression and decreased IRF7 expression. In conclusion, the human neuroblastoma cell line SH-SY5Y was susceptible to N. caninum infection and showed modulation of the innate immune response during infection.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Sepsis-associated acute kidney injury (SAKI) lacks mechanism-based therapies, with upstream ferroptosis regulators undefined. This study investigated growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15) as a suppressor of TLR4-MyD88-NF-κB signaling and associated ferroptosis. Differential GDF15 expression was identified by integrated analysis of three GEO datasets (GSE232404, GSE30718, GSE44925) and validated in SAKI patient kidney tissue (n = 30 vs. controls n = 25) and in kidneys from cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) mice. CLP mice received recombinant GDF15 (rmGDF15) (50 ng/kg ip); renal function (Scr/BUN), histology, kidney injury molecule-1 (KIM-1), serum TNF-α/IL-1β/IL-6 (ELISA), and 7-day survival were assessed. Oxidative stress/ferroptosis was quantified by DCFH-DA ROS imaging and kits (MDA, GSH, SOD, NADPH, Fe, GPX4 activity); TLR4-MyD88-NF-κB by qRT-PCR, Western blot, and Immunohistochemistry. LPS (1 μg/mL, 48 h)-stimulated HK-2 cells underwent shGDF15 lentiviral knockdown (puromycin 2 μg/mL) ± TAK242 (1 μM); viability (CCK-8), apoptosis (Annexin V/PI flow), cytokines (ELISA/qRT-PCR), ROS, ferroptosis markers, and pathway activation were evaluated. GDF15 was upregulated in SAKI datasets, patient kidney tissue, and CLP kidneys. GDF15 supplementation improved survival, lowered Scr/BUN and KIM-1, attenuated tubular injury, and reduced systemic proinflammatory cytokines. It decreased renal ROS, MDA and Fe while restoring GSH, SOD, NADPH, GPX4 activity, and SLC7A11 expression, and suppressed TLR4-MyD88-NF-κB signaling. In HK-2 cells, GDF15 silencing aggravated LPS-induced loss of viability, apoptosis, cytokine release, oxidative stress, and ferroptosis markers, all reversed by TAK242. In conclusion, GDF15 is a stress-inducible renoprotective factor that suppresses TLR4 signaling, ferroptosis markers, and inflammation in SAKI, suggesting exogenous administration as a promising therapeutic strategy.© 2026 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.
Chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is characterized by an inadequate immune response to clearing the virus. Immunomodulatory agents present a promising therapeutic strategy for the treatment of HBV. Glucan particles (GPs), when used as a vaccine adjuvant, have shown the ability to enhance both innate and adaptive immune responses. Thus, we assessed the effectiveness of the GPs-based hepatitis B vaccine in boosting the immune response against HBV. Through biodistribution studies in mice, we confirmed GPs liver accumulation after oral administration. The investigation of GP-hepatocyte interactions revealed that GPs induce elevated production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in HepG2 cells without affecting cellular glutathione levels. Additionally, GPs promoted the maturation of human dendritic cells (CD80, CD86, MHC-I and MHC-II). Vaccination studies in mice with GPs encapsulating HBsAg, HBcAg, and CL097, a TLR7 agonist, elicited a robust cellular immune response, characterized by enhanced cytotoxic T cell functions, cytokine production, and spleen cell proliferation. Moreover, high levels of serum anti-HBsAg IgG and antigen-specific fecal sIgA were also induced. Notably, the GP-based vaccine also enhanced IFN-γ in the liver. These findings highlight the potential of oral administered GPs for liver targeting and their immunostimulatory properties in the context of hepatitis B vaccination.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Cannabis sativa L. produces a wide range of bioactive metabolites, including phytocannabinoids such as tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), cannabidiol (CBD) and cannabigerol (CBG), which exhibit antiviral activity and modulate innate immune responses through Toll-like receptors (TLRs), particularly TLR4 and TLR7. The cross-regulation between cannabinoids and TLRs can influence the production of cytokines and antimicrobial peptides. Given their key role in orchestrating innate immunity, particularly inflammatory responses and antiviral activity, understanding these processes in bovine immune cells is essential. This study evaluated the immunomodulatory and antiviral effects of extracts from C. sativa chemotypes - THC-dominant (I), intermediate THC:CBD (II), CBD-dominant (III) and CBG-dominant (IV) - in bovine cells. In peripheral blood mononuclear cells, chemotype I induced an enhanced inflammatory response, increasing TLR4 and BMAP28 transcription and pro-inflammatory cytokine expression at both transcriptional and protein levels. Similarly, chemotype IV promoted a pro-inflammatory profile characterised by increased TLR4, BMAP28 and IFNβ expression, as well as elevated TNFα protein levels. In contrast, chemotypes II and III elicited anti-inflammatory effects. Chemotype III decreased TLR4, TLR7, BMAP28, TNFα and IFNβ transcription, although IFNγ protein levels increased. Chemotype II produced a comparable, although less pronounced, anti-inflammatory pattern, reducing TLR4, TLR7, TNFα and IFNβ while increasing BMAP28. Additionally, chemotypes II, III, and IV exhibited antiviral activity in BoAHV-1-infected MDBK cells, significantly reducing viral titres at 48 h post-infection. Overall, these findings demonstrate that C. sativa chemotypes differentially modulate bovine innate immune gene expression and may also exert antiviral effects, highlighting their potential as dual immunomodulatory and antiviral agents in bovine infectious contexts.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Cancer progression involves systemic immune suppression and tumor recurrence facilitated by increased splenic protumoral myelopoiesis. To address this clinical challenge, we developed an engineered Trojan Mycobacterium as a trained immunity (TI)-mediated splenic myelopoiesis converter (t-SMC). This design provides an intravenously injectable anisotropic TI inducer with an aspect ratio of 3.6 for preferential spleen targeting and cellular uptake via a Mycobacterium "peeling-off and masking-up" strategy with human serum albumin incorporating an enzyme‑activatable Toll‑like receptor 7/8 agonist that boosts TI activation. t-SMC induces antitumoral myelopoiesis with metabolic and epigenetic reprogramming in splenic macrophages. This shift toward antitumoral myelopoiesis markedly enriches the tumor microenvironment with inflammatory myeloid effectors in an E.G7-OVA model, and the adoptive transfer of splenic myeloid cells confirmed the TI-driven antitumor effect. Furthermore, comparative analysis revealed that the bacterial scaffold (alb-Mycobac) initiates myeloid reprogramming, but only the integrated TLR7/8 agonist (t-SMC) crosses the therapeutic threshold for tumor regression. In the MC38 surgical recurrence model, preoperative t-SMC combined with standard adjuvant αPD-L1 plus oxaliplatin achieved complete inhibition of recurrence in 50% of treated mice (3 of 6) with 62.5% long-term survival, establishing TI priming as a translation-ready preoperative adjuvant that converts immune-checkpoint non-responders into responders.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Materials published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Hypothesis generation in biomedicine is constrained by human cognitive limitations in synthesizing insights from fragmented biomedical knowledge and multimodal data sources. Here we introduce XunZi, an AI biologist that integrates logical reasoning and multimodal data fusion to autonomously generate de novo therapeutic target hypotheses with testable mechanisms. XunZi has been trained on 24.4 million publications and 613.6 TB of multisource data spanning 21,008 human genes and 5,850 diseases, and outperforms existing methods in both accuracy and interpretability across diverse disease contexts. In Parkinson's disease (PD), where complex mechanisms and limited targets hamper therapy development, XunZi identifies aberrant activation of CHK2 and IRAK4 kinases across multiple models. Pharmacological or genetic inhibition of Chk2 rescues dopaminergic neuron loss and motor deficits in PD mice. We further demonstrate XunZi's broad versatility in diseases such as non-small-cell lung cancer. XunZi establishes a paradigm-shifting framework to translate fragmented biomedical knowledge and data into actionable therapeutics.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Persistent human papillomavirus (HPV) infection is a key driver in cervical cancer, yet the molecular mechanisms linking HPV to immune escape remain incompletely understood.We integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), bulk transcriptome, and clinical data to analyze cervical cancer heterogeneity. scRNA-seq, inferCNV, and pseudotime analysis characterized HPV-associated cellular features and malignant transformation. hdWGCNA identified core gene modules. Univariate Cox, Lasso, and multivariate Cox regressions were used to construct a prognostic risk model. In vitro functional validation of TAB2 was also performed.Eleven major cell populations were identified, with epithelial cells as primary HPV targets. HPV-related gene enrichment increased with disease progression. Malignant cells exhibited significantly higher immune escape scores than non-tumor cells, strongly correlating with HPV infection levels (P < 0.001). hdWGCNA identified three modules linked to immunosuppression, stress response, and proliferation. An eight-gene risk model showed stable prognostic performance across TCGA and GEO cohorts, served as an independent prognostic factor (P < 0.05), and correlated with WNT/TGFβ pathway activation and immune checkpoint genes. TAB2 knockdown significantly suppressed cervical cancer cell proliferation, migration, and invasion in vitro.This multi-omics analysis identifies transcriptional programs associated with HPV infection and immune escape in cervical cancer. The eight-gene risk model shows potential for prognosis prediction and patient stratification, offering a theoretical basis for individualized treatment. The mechanistic hypotheses generated warrant further experimental validation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Varicella-zoster virus (VZV) reactivation or herpes zoster (HZ) results from a decline in cell-mediated immunity. The precise immunological mechanisms driving this reactivation and determining its clinical severity remain unclear. To evaluate the expression of Toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7), serum levels of I interferon response (IFN-a), and the CD4/CD8 T-cell in patients with active HZ and to correlate these immunological markers with disease severity. A case control study was conducted with 50 patients with active HZ and 30 healthy controls. Whole blood and serum samples were collected. TLR7 gene expression was quantified using reverse-transcription quantitative real-time PCR (RT-qPCR), and the serum concentrations of IFN-a, soluble CD4 (sCD4) and soluble CD8 (sCD8) were quantitatively measured by sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Patients with HZ exhibited significant upregulation of TLR7 gene expression (p=0.0102) and elevated serum IFN-a levels (p<0.0001) compared with controls. While IFN-a levels did not correlate with clinical severity, both CD4+ (p=0.018) and CD8+ (p=0.016) T cell levels increased significantly with greater disease severity. Sex-specific differences were observed, with males showing higher sCD4 levels and females showing higher sCD8 levels. In conclusion, the adaptive T-cell-derived response, rather than systemic IFN-a levels, is more closely associated with the clinical severity of herpes zoster. The paradoxical upregulation of TLR7 during active disease suggests a complex host-virus interaction involving potential viral evasion mechanisms. These preliminary findings, although limited by sample size, suggest that the sCD4/sCD8 balance and sex-specific immune profiles warrant further investigation as potential prognostic indicators in larger validation cohorts.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42567952
Diabetic foot ulcers are a major complication of diabetes characterized by persistent inflammation and impaired tissue repair, in part driven by aberrant activation of the cGAS-STING innate immune pathway. Precision immunomodulation in the protease-rich wound microenvironment remains challenging because therapeutic efficacy requires both localized retention and responsiveness to pathological cues. Here, we developed an integrated AI-to-biomaterial strategy for diabetic wound repair by coupling generative AI-guided peptide discovery with microenvironment-responsive local delivery. A structure-guided deep-learning pipeline integrating RFDiffusion, ProteinMPNN, and AlphaFold2-multimer identified SCP-1, a conformation-locking peptide designed to stabilize the inactive STING dimer. To enable therapeutic translation, SCP-1 was incorporated into a dual-responsive hydrogel (Gel-SCP-1) that provides in situ gelation and MMP-9-triggered release in the wound bed. Gel-SCP-1 suppressed STING-TBK1-IRF3 signaling, reduced inflammatory and oxidative stress, promoted reparative macrophage polarization, and enhanced angiogenic activity. In a full-thickness excisional wound model in db/db diabetic mice, Gel-SCP-1 significantly accelerated wound closure and improved tissue regeneration, including enhanced re-epithelialization and collagen remodeling. These findings establish an AI-to-biomaterial therapeutic paradigm for precision immunoregenerative therapy in chronic diabetic wounds.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
To explore the specific molecular mechanisms of CD19 CAR-Macrophage (CD19 CAR-M) in treating Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma (DLBCL).Differential expression and pathway enrichment analyses of GEO dataset GSE66770 were performed to construct a SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB interaction network. CD19 CAR-M were generated by lentiviral transduction of THP-1-derived macrophage-like cells and co-cultured with U2932 cells. CCK-8, colony formation and Transwell assays were used to evaluate U2932 proliferation, invasion and migration; IL-6 and IFN-γ levels were measured by ELISA; ROS was detected by DHE staining. RT-qPCR quantified macrophage markers CD14 (M0), CD163 and CD206 (M2), and M1 marker IL-12. Western blot analyzed p-SYK, p-SHP2, NOX2, p-TBK1, TFEB, LC3B and phosphorylated/total protein ratios; immunofluorescence assessed endosomal markers EEA1 and LAMP1. Phagocytosis was evaluated by fluorescent microsphere assay; U2932 apoptosis was determined by flow cytometry after FcγR blockade. Flow cytometry was additionally performed to validate the maintenance of macrophage phenotype, CAR transduction efficiency, and the purity of cell separation after co-culture. NOD-scid mouse DLBCL xenografts were subjected to in vivo imaging for therapeutic validation.Bioinformatic analysis identified TBK1 as a key immune-evasion node positively correlated with SYK and negatively with SHP2. Flow cytometric analysis confirmed successful construction of the CD19 CAR-M cell model, with stable macrophage phenotype and specific CAR expression. CD19 CAR-M significantly inhibited U2932 proliferation, invasion and migration, elevated IL-6, IFN-γ and ROS, and induced M1 polarization. Phosphorylation of SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB axis proteins and LC3B expression were markedly increased; EEA1/LAMP1 fluorescence intensities were enhanced. Fluovrescent microsphere uptake was elevated and reversible by FcγR inhibitor elsubrutinib, accompanied by increased U2932 late-apoptosis rate. In vivo experiments confirmed that CD19 CAR-M reduced tumor burden via activation of the SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB axis.CD19 CAR-M kills DLBCL through macrophage phagocytosis mediated by the SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB axis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The extensive expression of STING in patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is closely associated with overall survival and other factors. Activation of the STING pathway can suppress NSCLC. However, the clinical translation of STING agonists remains hindered by challenges such as off-target effects, metabolic instability, and suboptimal pharmacokinetics.In this study, we engineered two oncolytic adenoviruses (OAds), OAd-HcGAS and OAd-McGAS, expressing human or murine cGAS, respectively, using an Ad5/3 chimeric adenovirus platform under regulation by the hTERT promoter to evaluate whether OVs carrying the cGAS gene are capable of specifically activating the STING pathway within tumors and enhancing the anti-tumor efficacy of OVs both in vitro and in vivo.In vitro, OAd-HcGAS exhibited robust replication and potent cytolytic activity in tumor cells. It activated the STING-TBK1-IRF3 signaling axis, triggering a strong type I interferon (IFN-I) and pro-inflammatory cytokine response without compromising viral replication. In a murine Lewis lung carcinoma allograft model, intratumoral (i.t.) administration of OAd-McGAS led to substantial cGAS expression and consequential activation of the STING pathway. Moreover, the combination with anti-PD-L1 therapy resulted in tumor regression in over half of the cases. Notably, this armed oncolytic virus strategy enhanced the activation and infiltration of multiple immune cell populations.Collectively, these findings establish cGAS-expressing oncolytic adenoviruses as a novel and effective therapeutic strategy for lung cancer treatment.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Xu, Shi, Zhang, Jun, Yue, Zhao, Huang, Peng, Yu, He, Zheng and Fu.
Neutrophilic asthma is defined as an inflammatory disease typified by airway neutrophil infiltration. Tripartite motif-containing protein 31 (TRIM31), an E3 ligase, is implicated in various processes, including inflammation, tumorigenesis, and immune responses. However, the function of TRIM31 in neutrophilic asthma remains to be elucidated. In the study, we identified that TRIM31 expression was markedly upregulated and interleukin 17 (IL-17) pathway had an enrichment in bronchial biopsy tissues from neutrophilic asthma patients through bioinformatics analysis. TRIM31 was also elevated in lung tissues from mice with neutrophilic asthma. Further studies revealed that TRIM31 overexpression inhibited IL-17 mediated signaling cascade. TRIM31 bonded to TRAF6 and the interaction was strengthened in a dose-dependent manner. TRIM31 overexpression reduced the total and M1-linked ubiquitin chains of TRAF6. In the presence of IL-17 A, TRIM31-TRAF6 interaction was enhanced, and TRAF6 ubiquitination further decreased. Whereas TRIM31 knockdown increased TRAF6 ubiquitination and promoted IL-17-mediated signaling activation. In addition, TRIM31 failed to regulate IL-17 signaling in the TRAF6 deficiency cells. Overall, these findings demonstrated that TRIM31 regulated inflammation in neutrophilic asthma through suppression of TRAF6-mediated IL-17 pathway. These results provided new insights into the intricate pathophysiological mechanisms of neutrophilic asthma.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560011 is a review article
Mycoplasma genitalium has emerged as a clinically significant etiology of sexually transmitted infections that often establishes persistent infections within the female reproductive tract. Although the recruitment of neutrophils is a characteristic feature of the cervicitis associated with M. genitalium, the molecular mechanisms that govern this response at the mucosal interface remain incompletely defined. In this study, the infection of endocervical epithelial cells with M. genitalium was observed to induce a robust increase in IL-33 protein that localized within the nucleus. The transcriptional induction of the gene encoding IL-33 was mediated by a signaling axis involving Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) and TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1), which led to the nuclear translocation and promoter binding of Interferon Regulatory Factor 1 (IRF1) and 7 (IRF7). Within the nucleus, IL-33 physically complexed with the p65 subunit of NF-κB. This interaction facilitated the recruitment and occupancy of p65 at the promoters of the genes encoding CXCL1 and IL-8, thereby specifically amplifying the secretion of these chemokines. Functional assays demonstrated that the secretion of chemokines dependent on nuclear IL-33 was required for the adhesion, chemotaxis, and oxidative activation of neutrophils. These findings identify a pathogenic mechanism whereby M. genitalium exploits the nuclear function of IL-33 to drive chronic neutrophilic inflammation and contribute to the immunopathology of the reproductive tract.Copyright © 2026 Tian, Li, Xie, Zhang, Hu, Huang, Du, Li and Xie.
The oncoprotein MDM2 is widely recognized as the principal negative regulator of p53, thereby controlling the expression of numerous RNA polymerase II (Pol II)-dependent genes involved in cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Beyond this canonical role, MDM2 also engages in transcriptional regulation independently of p53, for instance through interactions with polycomb repressor complexes. Here, we identify RNA polymerase III (Pol III) as an additional target of MDM2 function. Using two complementary chemical tools-a small-molecule MDM2 antagonist (MI-1061) that releases p53 and augments MDM2 expression, and a PROTAC degrader (MD-224) that simultaneously activates p53 and promotes MDM2 ubiquitination and proteasomal destruction-we dissected the role of MDM2 in cells with amplified MDM2. Elevated MDM2 suppressed the transcription of Pol III-dependent genes encoding tRNA or 5S ribosomal RNA. Mechanistically, we found the aminoterminal domain of MDM2 associated with the catalytic subunit of Pol III, revealing a molecular link between MDM2 and the Pol III machinery. Because Pol III also acts as a cytosolic DNA sensor that converts DNA into double-stranded RNA to trigger RIG-I-TBK1-IRF3-dependent signaling, we asked whether MDM2 modulates this pathway. Indeed, enhanced MDM2 expression markedly attenuated the induction of innate immunity genes such as CXCL10, OAS1, and MX1 following transfection with poly(dA:dT). Similarly, DNA damage induced by a radiomimetic agent activated Pol III-dependent innate signaling, and this was again blunted by high MDM2 levels, resulting in enhanced cell survival. Taken together, our findings establish MDM2 as a previously unrecognized suppressor of Pol III-dependent transcription in response to cytosolic DNA. This expands the repertoire of MDM2 functions beyond repression of p53 and Pol II activity, positioning MDM2 as a broad regulator of transcription and innate immunity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Osteoarthritis (OA) is characterized by cartilage degeneration, oxidative stress, and chondrocyte senescence. This study investigated whether TL1A promotes OA through ENO1-associated redox, senescence and PI3K-AKT signaling mechanisms.Human paired OA cartilage, primary chondrocytes, and mouse age-associated and destabilization of the medial meniscus (DMM)-induced OA models were used. TL1A and ENO1 were manipulated using genetic deletion, intra-articular adenoviral delivery, and siRNA-mediated silencing. Oxidative stress, cellular senescence, cartilage degeneration, ENO1-related regulatory mechanisms, and PI3K-AKT activation were assessed using histology, immunostaining, Western blotting, qPCR, RNA-seq, co-immunoprecipitation, ubiquitination assays, and pharmacological rescue experiments.TL1A-positive chondrocytes were increased in damaged versus paired undamaged human cartilage (n = 8 paired patients) [mean paired difference, +64.24 percentage points; 95% CI, 57.80 to 70.68]. In DMM mice, Tl1a deletion reduced cartilage damage [OARSI Hodges-Lehmann (HL) difference, -2.50; 95% CI, -4 to 0], whereas intra-articular Tl1a overexpression induced mild OA-like cartilage changes [OARSI HL difference, +0.75; 95% CI, 0 to 1.50]. TL1A silencing reduced ROS fluorescence in IL-1β-treated human chondrocytes [mean change, -53.50%; 95% CI, -61.59 to -45.41]. TL1A interacted with ENO1 and was associated with altered ENO1 ubiquitination and protein abundance; Eno1 overexpression restored OA severity in DMM-operated Tl1a-/- mice [OARSI HL difference, +3.75; 95% CI, 3 to 5.50]. PI3K-AKT activation contributed to this phenotype, as 740 Y-P increased OARSI scores in DMM-operated Tl1a-/- mice [HL difference, +1.25; 95% CI, 0 to 2.50].TL1A contributes to OA progression by promoting ENO1-associated redox imbalance, chondrocyte senescence, and PI3K-AKT signaling, supporting the TL1A-ENO1 axis as a potential therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Maternal obesity and viral infection induce placental inflammation, but how their co-exposure influence fetoplacental development remains unclear. We hypothesised that maternal high fat (HF) diet and viral infection would independently induce placental inflammation and lipid peroxidation, reduce antioxidant defence, and cellular turnover. Further, HF diet would compromise placental capacity to adapt to infection.Female C57BL/6J mice were fed a control (CON) or 62% HF diet six weeks before and throughout pregnancy and injected with poly(I:C) (viral mimic) or vehicle (VEH) 24 h before sacrifice at gestational days (GD) 12.5, 15.5, and 18.5 (n = 5-8/group/GD). Placental inflammasome (NLRP3), oxidative stress (4-HNE), antioxidant defence (GPx-4), and cellular proliferation-to-death ratio (Ki-67, Caspase-3) were assessed by immunohistochemistry, and mRNA expression of Tlr3, Irf3, Tlr4, Tirap, and Il-1β were measured by qPCR. Data were analysed by linear mixed models (p ≤ 0.05).At GD12.5, infection was associated with increased Tlr3 mRNA and immunoreactive (ir)-4-HNE, and reduced ir-GPx-4 expression in the placental labyrinth zone (LZ). By GD15.5, HF diet was associated with increased ir-NLRP3 in both LZ and junctional zones (JZ). Exposure to infection alone and co-exposure to HF diet and infection further increased LZ ir-NLRP3. At GD18.5, HF diet was associated with increased Tirap and Il-1β mRNA expression, ir-4-HNE in the JZ and ir-Caspase-3 in the LZ.Maternal HF diet and infection exert distinct effects on the placenta across gestation, suggesting that maternal overnutrition might reduce the placenta's capacity to handle adverse exposures, which may increase susceptibility to poor fetal outcomes.© 2026 The Author(s). American Journal of Reproductive Immunology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a globally prevalent chronic liver disease, and its progression is closely associated with Kupffer cells (KCs). This study aims to characterize C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9꞉secreted phosphoprotein 1 (CS) polarization in KCs and investigate its intercellular communication with endothelial cells (ECs) in NAFLD.Single-cell RNA sequencing data of liver tissues from 3 NAFLD mice and 3 control mice were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) dataset GSE129516. Seurat was used for data integration, quality control, clustering, and annotation. KCs and ECs were divided into subgroups, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses. A mouse liver single-cell dataset (GSE270583) was further included for cross-validation of CS polarization. CellChat was used to infer intercellular communication networks between KC and EC subgroups. Twenty male C57BL/6J mice were assigned to a control group (n=10) and a high-fat diet (HFD) group (n=10). Body weight was measured weekly. At 20 weeks of feeding, glucose tolerance and insulin tolerance were assessed, after which the mice were sacrificed, and serum and liver tissues were collected for subsequent experiments. Hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining and Oil Red O staining were used to observe pathological changes in the liver. Immunofluorescence staining of liver tissues was performed to validate the characteristics of CS polarization and M1/M2 polarization.A total of 29 cell clusters belonging to 8 cell types were identified. Compared with the control group, the proportion of KCs was increased and the proportion of ECs was decreased in the NAFLD group. Under M1/M2 and CS polarization frameworks, subgroups including CD80+ KCs, CD206+ KCs, S100A4+ KCs, secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1)+ KCs, and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9 (CXCL9)+ KCs were identified. Among these, CD80+ KCs and SPP1+ KCs were significantly expanded, and their characteristic genes were mainly enriched in nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) signaling pathways. Peroxiredoxin 3 (PRDX3) was upregulated in CD80+ KCs and downregulated in CD206+ KCs. ECs were divided into 3 subgroups: Apoa2+ ECs, PRDX3+ ECs, and Col4a1+ ECs. In the NAFLD group, the PRDX3+ EC subgroup was abnormally active, accompanied by high expression of PRDX1 and downregulation of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4). Further external validation using the single-cell dataset GSE270583 showed that SPP1+ KCs and CXCL9+ KCs could be clearly separated, and the proportion of SPP1+ KCs was increased in the NAFLD group, supporting the cross-cohort reproducibility of CS polarization in NAFLD. CellChat analysis suggested activation of the TNF receptor superfamily member 1A (TNFRSF1A) signaling pathway from CD80+ KCs and SPP1+ KCs to PRDX3+ ECs. After 20-week HFD feeding, mice displayed significant weight gain, impaired glucose tolerance, and reduced insulin sensitivity compared with controls (all P<0.05). The levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate transferase (AST), total cholesterol (TC), and triglyceride (TG) were significantly higher in the HFD group than in the control group (all P<0.05). HE staining and Oil Red O staining showed marked disordered hepatic architecture, lipid vacuoles, and lipid deposition in the livers of HFD mice. Immunofluorescence staining showed increased expression of PRDX3 and CD80 in liver tissues of the HFD group. Compared with the control group, SPP1 expression was increased, whereas CXCL9 expression was decreased, in hepatic KCs of the HFD group. These results were consistent with the single-cell transcriptome sequencing findings.KCs in NAFLD exhibit characteristics of CS polarization, with increased proportions of SPP1+ KCs and CD80+ KCs, as well as enhanced TNF-TNFRSF1A communication with PRDX3+ ECs. Changes in the expression of SPP1, CXCL9, CD80, and PRDX3 in the liver tissues of HFD mice were generally consistent with the single-cell analysis results. CS polarization may participate in alterations of the hepatic inflammatory microenvironment in NAFLD and may provide a new research direction for understanding the inflammation-fibrosis progression of NAFLD.
Mechanical and/or microbial stimuli can prompt extracellular ATP release in many cell types, where it acts as an inflammatory mediator to amplify pain signals and inflammation. This study aimed to investigate the synergistic effects of microbial and/or mechanical stimulation on ATP and cytokine release from dental pulp cells (DPCs) and to determine if the inflammatory signalling identified was dependent on ATP acting via the purinergic receptor, P2X3.DPCs were prepared from sound third molars using explant culture method. P2X3 protein expression and functionality in DPCs were investigated by immunostaining and calcium mobilisation assays using the P2X3 agonist αβmeATP and antagonist AF-353. ATP or interleukin-6 (IL-6) release from DPCs treated with lipoteichoic acid (LTA) and fluid shear stress or stretch was measured using the ATPlite luciferase assay (PerkinElmer) or ELISA (R&D Systems), respectively. To assess the role of P2X3 activation in IL-6 release, the P2X3 antagonist AF-353 was included in ELISA experiments. Data were checked for normality and analysed by Mann-Whitney test for two-group comparisons and Kruskal-Wallis or ANOVA test with Dunn's or Dunnett's multiple comparisons test where appropriate for multiple-group comparisons.The DPCs expressed functional P2X3 receptors. The cells' response to αβmeATP was significantly inhibited by AF-353 (p < 0.0001). Increased ATP and IL-6 release were observed following co-stimulation with LTA and fluid shear stress (p < 0.01, p < 0.05) or LTA and stretch (p < 0.05). The addition of AF-353 reduced IL-6 release by 34% and 36% (p < 0.05) in DPCs co-stimulated with LTA and fluid shear stress or stretch, respectively.This study demonstrates that the combined bacterial mimetic and mechanical stimulation of DPCs significantly enhances ATP and IL-6 release. The inhibition of IL-6 release by the P2X3 antagonist AF-353 indicates the importance of P2X3 receptor activation in this process. These findings offer insights into the molecular mechanisms of dental pulp inflammation and potential therapeutic targets.© 2026 The Author(s). International Endodontic Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Endodontic Society.
Online social anxiety (OSA), a multidimensional form of social evaluative anxiety in online social contexts, disproportionately affects emerging adults who constitute the largest active group of media users and face heightened psychological sensitivity due to growing pressures and immature sociocognitive regulation during the transition to adulthood. However, its heterogeneity, transitions, and longitudinal associations with mental health outcomes remain underexplored.This study utilized data from two waves of a three-wave longitudinal survey, with 849 Chinese participants (Meanage = 21.6 years; 50.4 percent female) assessed at 4-month intervals. Individuals were classified using latent profile analysis and the stability and changes of profiles were assessed via latent transition analysis (LTA). Multinomial logistic regressions were conducted separately at baseline and follow-up to identify correlates of profile membership. Predictors of profile transitions were examined using manual three-step LTA models, and associations between latent transition patterns and follow-up mental health outcomes were examined using BCH-LTA distal outcome analyses controlling for the corresponding baseline symptom level.Four profiles of OSA were identified: low, privacy-sensitive, moderate-high, and high OSA. Extreme profiles (low/high OSA) showed high stability (80.4 percent and 79.1 percent), while privacy-sensitive OSA exhibited the lowest stability (55.1 percent). Profile memberships were influenced by social-cognitive biases and digital interaction, particularly fear of negative evaluation and online interpersonal trust, whereas profile transitions were mainly associated with anxiety. Transitions toward less severe OSA profiles were generally associated with better subsequent mental health, whereas transitions toward more severe profiles corresponded to poorer outcomes, particularly for offline social anxiety.OSA was heterogeneous in its manifestation, severity and transitions. Personalized and early interventions targeting profile-specific vulnerabilities are critical to prevent the worsening of OSA and mitigate its psychological burden.
Innate immune recognition shapes infection outcomes by linking microbial detection to host defense. Although pattern recognition receptors are classified by the ligands they detect (lipids, peptidoglycans, or nucleic acids) cross-talk between these pathways is increasingly recognized. Staphylococcus aureus, a major cause of skin and soft tissue infections, can persist intracellularly, evading immunity and antibiotics. Here, we describe a lipid-based immune evasion strategy in which the S. aureus enzyme oleate hydratase (OhyA) converts host fatty acids into hydroxylated lipids that antagonize TLR3-TRIF-IRF7 signaling, a pathway activated by double-stranded RNA. Deletion of ohyA unleashed this pathway, triggering rapid bacterial clearance, whereas loss of TLR3, TRIF, or IRF7 restored bacterial persistence, establishing a noncanonical antibacterial role for an antiviral signaling pathway. These findings identify a previously unrecognized interface between bacterial lipid metabolism and antiviral immune machinery, highlighting how pathogens manipulate cross-kingdom signaling to evade intracellular immunity.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557506 is a review article
Multiple health risk behaviors (MHRBs) co-occur during adolescence and evolve across developmental stages, yet longitudinal person-centered analyses remain limited in Asian contexts. This study aimed to identify latent classes of co-occurring MHRBs across five annual waves and examine transition dynamics and predictors of favorable transitions among Korean adolescents.The data from 5051 adolescents (25,255 person-waves) in the Korea Youth Health Panel Survey (KYHPS, 2019-2023) were analyzed for alcohol use, physical inactivity, poor diet, and short sleep duration. Latent class analysis (LCA) identified behavioral profiles at each wave, and latent transition analysis (LTA) modeled class membership transitions.Three classes consistently emerged: Low-Risk (13.9-83.2%), Moderate-Risk (6.3-82.6%), and High-Risk (3.5-14.0%). Prevalence of ≥ 2 risk behaviors rose from 15.7% to 54.9%, and that of short sleep duration surged from 20.3% to 78.6%. For high-risk person-waves, 78.0% transitioned favorably across consecutive waves.Korean adolescents show dynamic, heterogeneous MHRB patterns and an alarming increases in sleep deprivation. High transition fluidity suggests critical intervention windows for person-centered, syndemic-informed prevention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
A randomized controlled trial was conducted to compare the clinical efficacy of lateral transperitoneal adrenalectomy (LTA) versus posterior retroperitoneoscopic adrenalectomy (PRA) and to explore suitable surgical approaches for different patients.This prospective study enrolled 184 adrenal tumor patients treated at our hospital from May 2023 to October 2025. Patients were randomly assigned to the LTA group or PRA group using minimization. Subgroup analyses were performed based on tumor diameter, location, and pathological type to investigate suitable surgical approaches for tumors with different characteristics. The impact of surgeon qualifications on outcomes was examined to indirectly assess the differences in learning curves. Primary outcomes included operative time, laparoscopic operation time, and blood loss. Secondary outcomes included trocar establishment time, number of trocars, transfusion rates, intraoperative complication rates, conversion rates, analgesic requirement grade on postoperative day 1, postoperative antibiotic use, postoperative recovery time of gastrointestinal function, postoperative drainage time, short-term postoperative complication rates, postoperative length of stay, and total hospitalization cost.The LTA and the PRA groups each comprised 92 patients. No significant differences were observed between LTA and PRA for primary outcomes. PRA demonstrated superiority over LTA in the number of trocars (p = 0.006), intraoperative complication rates (p = 0.047), analgesic requirement grade on postoperative day 1 (p = 0.042), postoperative recovery time of gastrointestinal function (p < 0.001), and postoperative drainage time (p < 0.001). When tumor diameter >3 cm, LTA demonstrated superiority in blood loss (p = 0.007) and intraoperative complication rates (p = 0.032). Subgroup analysis showed that LTA had a significantly higher complication rate than PRA (p = 0.027) when treating right adrenal tumors. Surgeon qualifications significantly influenced operative time (p < 0.001), laparoscopic operation time (p = 0.006), and blood loss (p = 0.002) of PRA, but had no apparent effect on perioperative indicators of LTA.Both LTA and PRA are safe surgical methods for treating adrenal tumors, but PRA has advantages, especially for right adrenal tumors, where it can significantly reduce the incidence of complications, but it requires a greater technical challenge for the surgeon. For adrenal tumors with a diameter greater than 3 cm, LTA can be considered. Clinicians should comprehensively consider their technical proficiency, patient characteristics, and tumor features when choosing the appropriate surgical method.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552630 is a review article
In multiple sclerosis (MS), the chronic, unresolved nature of neuroinflammation within the central nervous system (CNS) remains a major obstacle for effective therapeutic intervention. This challenge arises primarily due to an incomplete understanding of the dysregulated inflammatory and pro-resolving pathways underlying MS lesion progression. Bioactive lipid mediators (LMs), biosynthesized through the coordinated actions of specific enzymes like lipoxygenases (LOX) and cyclooxygenases (COX), are key regulators of both the initiation and resolution of an inflammatory response; however, their spatial organization and functional role during MS pathology have not been fully elucidated. Here, by using pneumatically assisted nanospray desorption electrospray ionization (PA nano-DESI) mass spectrometry imaging and immunohistochemistry, we reveal an increase in the LM leukotriene B4 (LTB4) in human MS white matter compared to controls, with further enrichment in MS lesions relative to perilesional areas, alongside elevated microglial 5-LOX activating protein (FLAP) expression. Pharmacological antagonism of FLAP suppresses LTB4 biosynthesis in human-induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived microglia with only marginal effects on the microglia transcriptional phenotype as determined by RNA sequencing. Moreover, in vivo FLAP antagonism ameliorates disease severity and spinal cord inflammatory gene expression in the experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) model, an animal model of MS, in both a prophylactic and therapeutic settings. This coincided with reduced local LTB4 biosynthesis and reduced levels of inflammatory monocytes within the spinal cord during EAE. Together these findings establish the FLAP/LTB4 axis as a driver of neuroinflammation and a druggable therapeutic target for chronic inflammatory CNS disorders like MS.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42548996 is a review article
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have uncovered over a thousand loci associated with kidney function, but the effector genes and mechanisms remain largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate that ELF3 is the effector gene at a kidney function GWAS locus and acts as an epithelial proinflammatory amplifier of the reprogramming of injured proximal tubules (iPTs). E74-like factor 3 (ELF3) expression is induced in iPTs in both mouse models and human chronic kidney disease (CKD), where it defines transitional epithelial states enriched for inflammatory gene programs and surrounded by leukocyte infiltrates. Conditional deletion of Elf3 in mice after injury reduced iPT accumulation, cytokine production, and immune cell recruitment. Mechanistically, ELF3 directly bound and activated components of the noncanonical nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) pathway (Nfκb2, Map3k14, and Il6r) and was required for NFκB2 nuclear translocation and cytokine induction. Spatial transcriptomics and immunofluorescence of human CKD kidneys confirmed that ELF3 expression correlates with epithelial inflammation, disease progression, and loss of kidney function. Together, these findings establish ELF3 as a genetically validated effector gene that drives inflammatory reprogramming in iPTs, nominating it as a therapeutic target to blunt maladaptive inflammation in CKD.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is frequently accompanied by reduced muscle strength, metabolic dysregulation, and chronic inflammation. However, the plasma proteomic signatures and underlying biological mechanisms of probable sarcopenia in individuals with CKD remain poorly characterized. This study aimed to systematically characterize the plasma proteomic signatures associated with probable sarcopenia in CKD and explore their potential biological significance.We analysed 51,771 eligible participants with Olink measurements across 2920 proteins. The primary outcome was baseline probable sarcopenia, defined by European Working Group on Sarcopenia in Older People 2 (EWGSOP2) low-grip-strength thresholds. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) was defined broadly by estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) < 60 mL/min/1.73 m2, urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio (UACR) ≥3 mg/mmol (approximately equivalent to ≥30 mg/g) or kidney-disease hospital International Classification of Diseases, 10th Revision (ICD-10) codes, with strict chronic-code sensitivity definitions. Analyses included CKD-stratified logistic discovery, enhanced-covariate sensitivity analyses, ICD-10 M62 cause-specific prospective validation, dual-outcome cis-protein quantitative trait locus (cis-pQTL) Mendelian randomisation (MR), fold-internal prediction modelling and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) metabolomic contextualisation.Probable sarcopenia was more prevalent among UK Biobank participants with CKD than among UK Biobank participants without CKD (10.5% vs. 4.4%). CKD-stratified proteomic analysis identifies 574 plasma proteins significantly associated with probable sarcopenia (false discovery rate [FDR] < 0.05), led by COL6A3 (odds ratio [OR] = 1.64, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.47-1.84) and GDF15 (OR = 1.53, 95% CI 1.38-1.69), alongside COLEC12, TNFRSF1B, CD300E, ADM and CST3. These associations remain largely robust under a strict CKD definition (521/574) and extended covariate adjustment (573/574). Prospective analysis links 52 proteins to incident muscle-related outcomes, with GDF15 emerging as a representative signal (hazard ratio [HR] = 1.18, 95% CI 1.10-1.27). Genetic prioritization provides supportive evidence for 170 proteins across both muscle-related and CKD-related outcomes. Incorporating least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO)-selected proteins into five-fold cross-validated penalized regression models improves discrimination beyond clinical covariates alone (area under the receiver-operating-characteristic curve [AUC] from 0.674 to 0.693-0.694). Metabolomic profiling reveals systematic alterations in lipid-related traits (low-density lipoprotein [LDL], intermediate-density lipoprotein [IDL] and very-low-density lipoprotein [VLDL]) among individuals with probable sarcopenia, and integrative analysis identifies over 7000 significant protein-metabolite associations (FDR <0.05) that converge on a lipid-transport-centred network anchored by COL6A3, IGFBP4 and CST3.Probable sarcopenia in CKD is associated with a broad plasma protein signature linking extracellular matrix remodelling, inflammation, renal dysfunction and metabolic stress. These findings remain discovery-stage and require external CKD validation, direct nutrition assessment and mechanistic testing before clinical translation.Copyright © 2026 European Society for Clinical Nutrition and Metabolism. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Although lithium-ion batteries (LIBs) have dominated portable electronics, they are still not desirable for transportation. In this regard, new electrode chemistries have been undergoing intensive investigation. To this end, silicon (Si) is very promising as an anode, ascribed to its exceptionally high capacity and cost effectiveness. However, its practical application has been severely hindered by substantial volume changes during cycling. To tackle these issues, in this work, we applied a novel lithium-containing cross-linked polymer coating over Si electrodes conformally, which was deposited via a molecular layer deposition (MLD) process using lithium tert-butoxide (LTB) and glycerol (GL) as precursors. This MLD coating has been demonstrated in our group's previous studies to provide excellent protective effects on Li metal electrodes. Building on this, our study shows that the resulting polymeric LiGL-coated Si electrodes deliver a reversible capacity of ∼838 mAh g-1 after 100 cycles at 0.1C. We found that the LiGL coating was highly ion-conductive and served as an artificial solid electrolyte interphase (SEI), which protected Si electrodes from undesirable reactions, accommodated their volume changes, and improved their mechanical integrity. As a result, this study presents a new route for addressing the issues of Si electrodes while MLD offers new solutions to battery issues.
Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and sarcopenia demonstrate a significant comorbidity, particularly in the elderly, yet the molecular mechanisms linking them, especially through oxidative stress, remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to identify oxidative stress-related hub genes involved in T2DM-associated sarcopenia (T2DS) by integrating single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and bulk RNA-seq data with machine learning. We analyzed scRNA-seq datasets (GSE244515, GSE268953) to characterize cellular heterogeneity and bulk RNA-seq datasets (GSE202295, GSE226151) for differential expression. Cell type annotation revealed key involvement of neuromuscular junctions and myofibers. Functional enrichment analyses highlighted pathways like the proteasome, TNF signaling, and ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis. From an initial set of oxidative stress-related genes, a comprehensive machine learning framework comprising 127 algorithm combinations was employed. The Lasso+Stepglm[both] model identified 12 candidate genes. Subsequent Protein-Protein Interaction (PPI) network analysis refined this to seven core hub genes: TNFRSF1B, PSMA2, UBE2D1, UBE2N, HSP90AA1, RAD23A, and DNAJB1. These genes are functionally interconnected, primarily implicating TNFRSF1B-mediated inflammatory signaling that activates the ubiquitin-proteasome system, leading to enhanced protein degradation-a key pathway in muscle atrophy. ROC curve analysis confirmed the strong diagnostic value of these hub genes across training, test, and external validation sets. Our findings systematically reveal novel oxidative stress-related hub genes and mechanisms in T2DS, providing potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets for this debilitating condition.Copyright: © 2026 Zhu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Reduced left atrial (LA) strain is associated with cerebral small vessel disease (CSVD). In memory clinic patients without atrial fibrillation, LA reservoir strain and LA conduit strain were significantly associated with white matter hyperintensity volume and cerebral microinfarcts. From plasma proteomic profiling of 1,441 proteins, we identified 23 proteins significantly associated with LA reservoir strain, 425 with LA conduit strain, 199 with white matter hyperintensity volume, and 247 with cerebral microinfarcts. Among them, 13 proteins were commonly associated with both LA strain and CSVD, with 8 proteins showing evidence of significant mediation effects for the association between LA strain and CSVD. The mediators included tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member (TNFRSF)-11A, TNFRSF1B, TNFRSF10B, cystatin-C, nectin-4, insulin-like growth factor-binding protein, CD27, and brorin. Partial correlation network analysis also supported TNFRSF11A and insulin-like growth factor-binding protein as highly interconnected proteins in this study population. These plasma proteins may offer pathobiological clues linking LA dysfunction to CSVD.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Immune infiltration in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is associated with patient prognosis. However, the precise phenotypic classifications of immune infiltration in TNBC remain unclear, and the key regulatory mechanisms underlying this process require further investigation. In this study, we employed transcriptomic and single-cell data analysis, utilizing unsupervised clustering to classify the immune microenvironment of TNBC. We constructed a prognostic model based on immune phenotypes and further validated the regulatory role of key genes in immune cell modulation. Through unsupervised clustering analysis of the GEO and METABRIC databases, we identified two distinct immune infiltration phenotypes in TNBC tumor tissues. Notably, patients with high immune infiltration exhibited significantly prolonged overall survival (OS). Subsequent analysis of tumor tissues from high/low immune infiltration groups revealed five differentially expressed genes (DEGs), which were significantly correlated with patient prognosis: lymphotoxin β (LTB), interferon regulatory factor 8 (IRF8), indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 (IDO1), integral membrane protein 2A (ITM2A), and lymphocyte cytosolic protein 1 (LCP1). A prognostic model for TNBC was developed based on the five key genes. Furthermore, we demonstrated a significant association between LTB expression and enhanced immune effects in TNBC tissues. Single-cell sequencing data revealed that LTB expression was predominantly localized to immune-infiltrating T cells, which tended to differentiate toward cytotoxic T cells. We also confirmed that LTB expression improved T cell proliferation and enhanced the tumoricidal effect by modulating T cell differentiation pathways. In conclusion, immune infiltration phenotype is a crucial prognostic biomarker for TNBC patients. LTB contributes to enhanced immune infiltration, making as a promising target for immune therapy in TNBC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Piper regnellii ("Pariparoba"), is a shrub widely employed in traditional medicine, particularly in the form of leaf infusions or decoctions. These preparations are traditionally used for the treatment of wounds, infections, edema, skin lesions, pain, and other inflammatory conditions.Building upon traditional reports of P. regnellii associated with inflammatory conditions, this study combined chemical profiling and bioactivity assays to evaluate its inhibitory effects on key inflammatory mediators (PGE2 and LTB4), alongside its effects on the reduction of calcium oxalate (CaOx) crystals.The anti-urolithiatic activity of P. regnellii infusion was evaluated using urine containing calcium oxalate (CaOx) crystals at concentrations of 0.5, 1.0, and 1.5 mg/mL. The results were compared to negative and positive controls (sodium citrate and Cystone®). Anti-inflammatory activity was assessed using an ex vivo human whole blood assay, evaluating key inflammation mediators, prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and leukotriene B4 (LTB4). The infusion's chemical profile was determined by UHPLC-ESI-HRMS in positive ion mode, using a gradient chromatographic method. Data were processed using MZmine software, and chemical annotation was performed utilizing in-house and online databases.In the ex vivo anti-inflammatory assay, infusion samples significantly reduced LTB4 and PGE2 levels with significant statistical differences compared to the negative control (p ≤ 0.05). The infusion demonstrated inhibition percentages of 57.4% and 75.1% for the release of LTB4 and PGE2, respectively. In the in vitro anti-urolithiatic evaluation, all tested concentrations of P. regnellii showed statistically significant differences compared to the negative control (p ≤ 0.05), with the highest concentration (1.5 mg/mL) demonstrating the strongest crystal reduction capacity (90.4%) and a calculated IC50 value of 0.21 mg/mL for anti-urolithiatic activity. Metabolic profiling of the aqueous extract revealed the presence of multiple bioactive compounds. The predominant classes of annotated compounds found on P. regnellii infusion were flavonoids, and other classes of compounds were also found. From all detected metabolites, 12 could be annotated at level 2 of confidence.This study provides scientific evidence supporting the traditional use of P. regnellii infusion related to inflammatory conditions. Additionally, the evaluation of its anti-urolithiatic effects expands the preliminary pharmacological insights into this species. Collectively, these findings suggest that P. regnellii may represent a promising source of bioactive compounds for the development of multitarget strategies addressing both inflammatory processes and urolithiasis-associated mechanisms.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42561834
Metritis is a major cause of infertility, contributing to repeat breeding, early embryonic loss, fetal mortality, and abortion.This study investigated alterations in metabolic, hormonal, oxidative, immunological, and molecular markers associated with metritis susceptibility in dromedary camels (Camelus dromedarius). A total of 100 non-lactating multiparous females (87 healthy and 13 metritic) were examined. Blood samples were collected and analyzed to evaluate hematobiochemical parameters, inflammatory and antioxidant markers, and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in selected immune- and antioxidant-related genes.Metritic animals exhibited fever and abnormal uterine discharge. Gene expression analysis showed significant upregulation of CARD9, SIGLEC1, VSIG4, BTRC, SLC2A3, ACOD1, and PFKFB3, alongside downregulation of CPT1A, ATF4, GADD45B, SLC7A11, and PRDX3. Sequencing identified 19 SNPs, with significant differences in genotype distribution between groups, and discriminant analysis achieved complete classification accuracy. Hematological findings included normocytic normochromic anemia, leukocytosis, neutrophilia, lymphopenia, and monocytosis. Biochemically, metritic camels showed hypoglycemia and decreased levels of estrogen, progesterone, FSH, LH, T4, calcium, and antioxidant markers (GSH, CAT, and TAC), while NEFA, BHBA, cortisol, MDA, and pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL1α, IL1β, IL6, IL10, and TNFα) were significantly elevated.Overall, clinical metritis in dromedary camels was associated with significant hematological, metabolic, hormonal, oxidative, immunological, and genetic alterations. These findings identify a panel of reproductive and molecular biomarkers that may serve as promising candidate biomarkers associated with clinical metritis. However, given the observational nature of the study and the relatively small number of metritic she-camels, these findings should be interpreted with caution and require validation in larger, independent camel populations before their diagnostic, prognostic, or breeding applications can be established.Copyright © 2026 Alqhtani, Elsayed, Al-Hazani, Elkhidr, Abdelnaby, Almubarak, Al-Rasheed, Emam, Safhi, Zarah, Ateya and Marzok.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) is a heterogeneous endocrine-metabolic disorder characterized by ovulatory dysfunction, hyperandrogenism, and insulin resistance, in which mitochondrial dysfunction has been increasingly implicated. Mitochondria regulate energy metabolism and oxidative stress, with mitophagy maintaining cellular balance. Dysregulated mitophagy relates to PCOS metabolic issues like obesity and inflammation. This study analyzed gene expression datasets to find autophagy-related genes in PCOS, identifying AMFR, FABP5, and HMOX1 as key genes. We built a diagnostic model and confirmed their elevated expression in a hyperandrogenism-induced PCOS cell model, revealing potential small-molecule drugs targeting these genes. Our integrative bioinformatics analysis and systematic molecular experiments suggest that FABP5 and HMOX1 are potential PCOS diagnostic targets, with high-affinity compounds as therapies,highlighting the pathological relevance of mitophagy-related genes in PCOS.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society for Reproductive Investigation.
ObjectiveAutoimmune and autoinflammatory diseases (AIDs) represent a heterogeneous group of immune-mediated disorders characterized by dysregulated innate and adaptive immune responses. This study aimed to investigate the immunogenetic background of AIDS by assessing the distribution of genetic variants identified by a targeted next-generation sequencing (NGS) panel and elucidating genotype-phenotype correlations in the context of systemic immune dysregulation.Materials and methodsA targeted NGS panel encompassing 19 genes involved in immune regulation, inflammatory signaling pathways, and immune tolerance was utilized to evaluate a cohort of 110 patients presenting with clinical manifestations suggestive of autoinflammatory disease. Clinical severity was quantitatively assessed using longitudinal serum C-reactive protein (CRP) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) measurements across acute and baseline periods. Detected variants were classified according to the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) guidelines and correlated with patient clinical phenotypes and established immunogenetic literature.ResultsA total of 55 genetic variants were identified across 41 patients. Alterations predominantly clustered in MEFV (38.2%), HFE (29.1%), and SLC29A3 (21.8%), followed by NOD2, MVK, CARD14, IL10RB, and PLCG2 (1.8% each). According to ACMG criteria, 61.8% of the variants were pathogenic, 25.5% were likely pathogenic, and 12.7% were VUS. Genotype-phenotype correlation analyses successfully linked rare variants (including PLCG2, IL10RB, and CARD14) and oligogenic combinations to specific laboratory profiles. These findings revealed unexpected penetrance, variable expressivity, and distinct biomarker disassociations, most notably highlighted by isolated ESR elevations reaching 91 mm/h.ConclusionOur findings underscore the immunogenetic heterogeneity of autoinflammatory diseases and substantiate the diagnostic value of NGS-based profiling in deciphering complex genotype-phenotype associations. The integration of specific quantitative biomarkers and downstream mechanisms highlights how non-HLA regulatory variants reshape the chronic inflammatory immune microenvironment, lowering the threshold for inflammasome activation and systemic autoimmunity.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
The present study aimed to explore the role of COP9 signalosome 8 (COPS8) as a novel molecule in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). A total of 9 genes were first identified by intersecting the differential genes of the GSE15471 and GSE62165 datasets with 248 Neddylation genes from the Reactome Pathway Database. The association between disease-free survival and the 9 genes in patients with PDAC was analyzed. Analysis using The Cancer Genome Atlas, Gene Expression Omnibus and Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis databases revealed that COPS8 was highly expressed in patients with PDAC, and PDAC tissues exhibited significantly higher COPS8 expression levels compared to those found in paracancerous tissues. Finally, the above results were verified by cellular experiments, reverse transcription-quantitative PCR, Western blotting and immunohistochemistry. The mRNA expression levels of COPS8 were significantly elevated in the pancreatic cancer cell lines PANC-1and MIA PaCa-2 compared to those in HPNE normal pancreatic cells, and the protein expression levels of COPS8 were also significantly elevated in the pancreatic cancer cells PANC-1 and MIA PaCa-2. COPS8 protein was significantly increased in cancer tissues of patients with pancreatic cancer compared to paracancerous tissues. The proliferative, migratory and invasive abilities of PANC-1 and MIA PaCa-2 cells were significantly reduced after knockdown of COPS8. The results showed that knockdown of COPS8 in PANC-1 and MIA PaCa-2 cells decreased Microtubule-associated proteins 1A/1B light chain 3B (LC3Ⅱ/LC3Ⅰ), while Sequestosome 1 (P62/SQSTM1) expression was elevated. COPS8 may promote the proliferation, invasion, and metastasis of pancreatic cancer cells by regulating autophagy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Backgrounds: Autocrine motility factor (AMF) represents a paradoxical protein with dual roles in cancer progression and therapy. This study investigated AMF-derived tetradecapeptides as novel chemosensitizing agents to overcome multidrug resistance (MDR) in hematological malignancies (HMs). Methods: Seven AMF variants were screened for anticancer activity across 14 human cancer cell lines using MTT and Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assays. Four tetradecapeptides (AMF-derived peptides AAP, HGP, HTP, and SKP) corresponding to the AMF206-219 region were designed and evaluated in three HM cell lines (HL-60, CCRF-CEM, IM-9) for growth inhibition, cellular internalization, reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, mitochondrial membrane potential, and gene/protein expression. Synergism with doxorubicin (DOX) and other chemotherapeutic agents was quantified by combination index (CI) analysis using the Chou-Talalay method and spheroid culture assays. Results: AMF variants demonstrated broad-spectrum anticancer activity, with HL-60 acute promyelocytic leukemia cells showing exceptional sensitivity. AMF variants functioned as cell competition-mediated killing signals, converting cancer cells into metabolically compromised "loser" cells through glucose metabolism disruption and oxidative stress induction. Among the four tetradecapeptides, AAP exhibited the most consistent growth inhibition across HM cell lines (HL-60, CCRF-CEM, IM-9) while maintaining gp78/AMFR-mediated cellular internalization. AAP treatment induced dose-dependent ROS production, mitochondrial membrane potential alterations, and p53 upregulation, though glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) suppression showed cell-type specificity. Remarkably, AAP demonstrated potent synergistic effects with DOX, reducing IC50 values by 28-53% across tested HM cells through multiple complementary mechanisms: enhanced intracellular DOX retention, elevated oxidative stress, and downregulation of multidrug resistance protein 1 (MDR1; P-glycoprotein) and multidrug resistance-associated protein 1 (MRP1) in specific cell types. AAP similarly synergized with daunorubicin but not with etoposide or cytarabine, suggesting selectivity for ROS-inducing anthracyclines. Conclusions: These findings establish AMF-derived peptides as promising human-origin chemosensitizers capable of overcoming multidrug resistance in HMs through multi-targeted mechanisms. The ability to reduce anthracycline dosing while maintaining efficacy offers potential for minimizing cardiotoxicity and other dose-limiting adverse effects, warranting further preclinical development toward clinical translation.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
Host genetic susceptibility to urogenital Chlamydia trachomatis (Ct) reinfection remains poorly understood. Coding variants identified in prior genome-wide association studies (GWAS) explained only a small fraction of the risk of reinfection. Our goal in this study was to characterize whether more risk would be captured by sequence variation that traditional GWAS insufficiently captures. Specifically, we evaluated the risk attributable to SNPs present in regulatory, non-coding regions; post-transcriptional regulation by microRNAs (miRNAs) that may depend on sequence variation in either the miRNA or the target mRNA; and copy number variants (CNVs). We analyzed GWAS data from African American women with or without documented urogenital Ct reinfection. Fine mapping and independent association analyses identified 30 unique index single-nucleotide polymorphisms (iSNPs), which were expanded to variants in linkage disequilibrium. Regulatory annotation was performed using HaploReg, RegulomeDB, FORGEdb, rSNPBase, and GTEx. We examined whether genes identified in the Ct reinfection GWAS are targeted by known Ct infection-associated microRNAs using curated databases. Genome-wide CNV calling was conducted using SNP intensity data, followed by stringent quality control and gene-level association testing. Functional annotation prioritized 7 SNPs with strong regulatory evidence, with stringent criteria for regulatory relevance, using HaploReg, RegulomeDB, FORGEdb, and rSNPBase. The strongest signals were observed at the CHIT1 locus, where multiple intronic variants (including rs2486963 and rs2244385) overlapped regulatory chromatin, altered transcription factor binding motifs, and acted as cis-expression quantitative trait loci for CHIT1 in whole blood. Additional regulatory variants were identified near TDRP, ERICH1, and DLGAP1, showing tissue-specific regulatory effects. MicroRNA analysis revealed extensive post-transcriptional targeting of SOCS6 and SULF1, while CHIT1 showed no curated Ct-associated miRNA interactions. CNV analysis identified 5775 high-confidence events, with nominal gene-level associations observed for ATAD3A, CARD14, TMEM240, and ZNF140. These results indicate that a greater fraction of the susceptibility to urogenital Ct reinfection may be driven by genetic variation affecting immune and epithelial pathways rather than protein-coding changes.
A20, encoded by tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced protein 3 (TNFAIP3), is a key negative regulator of NF-κB signaling with context-dependent functions in cancer. Its role in renal cell carcinoma (RCC), particularly clear-cell RCC (ccRCC), remains incompletely defined.Public GEO transcriptomic data from 23 controls and 32 ccRCC samples were analyzed using gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA). A20-overexpressing HEK293 and 786-O cells were assessed by functional assays and transcriptomic profiling. Eight ccRCC FFPE samples were profiled to compare A20-associated transcriptional patterns with cell-line data. Targeted DNA sequencing was performed in 11 ccRCC and 8 papillary RCC samples, and whole-exome sequencing was conducted in A20-overexpressing 786-O cells. Key genes were further evaluated using Kaplan-Meier survival analysis in 530 ccRCC patients and TCGA-KIRC data comprising 533 primary tumors and 72 normal samples.GEO analysis showed significant TNFAIP3/A20 upregulation in ccRCC (p = 3.96 × 10-5) and enrichment of NF-κB-related gene sets (p = 0.01). A20 overexpression produced distinct phenotypes in HEK293 and 786-O cells. In HEK293 cells, A20 increased BIK and ARHGAP6 expression and was associated with increased apoptosis and reduced wound closure. In 786-O cells, A20 suppressed ARHGAP6 and APAF1 and was associated with increased proliferation, enhanced wound closure, and reduced apoptosis relative to EV controls. A20-high ccRCC samples showed enrichment of NF-κB, TGF-β, DNA repair, mTOR/metabolic, hypoxia, and proteasome-related pathways. Genomic analyses identified alterations in NF-κB-related genes, including CARD10 and IRAK1. Conclusions: A20/TNFAIP3 may exert cell-context-dependent effects in RCC and is associated with tumor-relevant transcriptional and genomic alterations requiring further validation.
Multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) is a rare but severe complication of SARS-CoV-2 infection, characterized by systemic hyperinflammation. Evidence indicates innate immunity defects may predispose children to MIS-C. Host genetics may influence MIS-C susceptibility and severity, but underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. The aim of this study was to identify rare genetic variants in autoinflammatory genes that may contribute to MIS-C.Whole-exome sequencing was performed in 21 unvaccinated Brazilian children with MIS-C, stratified as non-critical or critical. Variant prioritization focused on single nucleotide variants with minor allele frequency < 0.001 in autoinflammatory genes. Functional impact was inferred using variant pathogenicity metrics, gene constraint scores, and in silico molecular docking. Four heterozygous missense variants were prioritized in three genes (SH3BP2, CARD14, and ADAM17), all in critical patients. ADAM17 was the most constrained gene, with variants in protein maturation (P18L) and substrate recognition (T663N) domains. Docking analyses showed both substitutions could affected ADAM17 interactions. ADAM17-NOTCH1 binding was predicted to be impaired by in silico analysis.Rare deleterious variants in autoinflammatory genes, especially ADAM17, may influence immune regulation and MIS-C severity. Our results highlight genetic pathways underlying MIS-C and provide a framework for mechanistic studies. Understanding how ADAM17 variants affect immune regulation may improve risk stratification and guide targeted therapies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) is a frequent complication associated with diabetes. CREBRF was reported to be closely associated with endoplasmic reticulum stress. However, the upstream regulatory mechanism by which CREBRF modulates endoplasmic reticulum stress in DKD renal tubular injury is unknown.HK-2 cells were treated with high glucose to construct a cellular model of DKD. C57BL/6J mice were injected intraperitoneally with streptozotocin (STZ) to construct an animal model of DKD. Co-IP was employed to assess the interactions between BTRC or NAA10 and CREBRF, as well as the levels of CREBRF acetylation and ubiquitination. Flow cytometry, EdU, and CCK-8 were used to detect apoptosis and proliferation. HE and PAS were performed to test renal histopathological changes. The expression of the above factors and endoplasmic reticulum stress-related proteins was detected by western blot.CREBRF was downregulated in DKD, and overexpression of CREBRF inhibited endoplasmic reticulum stress to alleviate high glucose-induced renal tubular injury. Additionally, NAA10 promoted acetylation of CREBRF, which facilitated BTRC-mediated ubiquitination and degradation of CREBRF. Finally, NAA10 inhibited CREBRF to promote endoplasmic reticulum stress in high glucose-induced renal tubules.NAA10 promoted acetylation of CREBRF, which facilitated ubiquitination and degradation of CREBRF by BTRC, leading to activation of endoplasmic reticulum stress and exacerbation of renal tubular injury in DKD.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Diabetes Investigation published by Asian Association for the Study of Diabetes (AASD) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42542193 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42516311 is a review article
Cashmere production declines with age in Inner Mongolian cashmere goats, but the molecular mechanisms are unknown. This study employed a transcriptome-wide RNA-seq analysis to compare age-associated and breed-related gene expression profiles in goat skin, with particular emphasis on age-dependent AKT1 expression and its associated signaling pathways. Skin tissues from cashmere goats at 12 and 15 months and age-matched non-cashmere controls were analyzed by RNA-seq (BGIDNBSEQ platform). Differential expression and functional enrichment analyses were performed on skin transcriptomes of cashmere and control goats at 12 and 15 months. Age-specific functional profiles emerged: 12-month cashmere goats showed enrichment in GTPase activity, glucose transport, and ribosomal assembly, whereas 15-month goats were enriched for autophagosome assembly and apoptosis. FoxO signaling was commonly enriched across both ages, while the Hepatitis B pathway was unique to 12 months. AKT1 was significantly upregulated at 12 months coinciding with peak cashmere production with reduced expression at 15 months. This age-dependent pattern was supported by coordinated regulation of downstream effectors, including TSC2, PIK3R2, MAPK9, and FOXO3. Collectively, these transcriptomic data provide a mechanistic framework linking age-dependent AKT1 regulation to the decline in cashmere fiber production.
Diagnosing common variable immunodeficiency (CVID) in childhood remains contentious, as monogenic inborn errors of immunity (IEIs) are increasingly recognized in CVID-like phenotypes. We analyzed 7,525 ESID Registry patients with a clinical diagnosis of CVID to investigate age-dependent genetic architecture and associated phenotypes. Among living CVID patients, monogenic defects were identified in 82 of 251 children younger than 18 years (32.7%) versus 447 of 5,225 adults (8.6%; OR: 5.18, 95% CI: 3.86-6.92). Pediatric-onset disease (<18 years) likewise demonstrated increased monogenic underpinnings (OR: 1.88, 95% CI: 1.56-2.27), strongest with onset before 4 years (OR: 2.99, 95% CI: 2.38-3.78). Monogenic "CVID" was more likely associated with immune dysregulation at presentation (OR: 1.98, 95% CI: 1.66-2.36) and negatively linked to infection-predominant manifestations (OR: 0.67, 95% CI: 0.56-0.81). Physician-entered "additional-gene" annotations suggested multigene constellations in 1.6% of patients and identified recurrently recorded variants in other IEI-associated genes, including TCF3, PIK3CD, and KMT2D, among unresolved cases. These findings support "pediatric CVID" as a provisional label requiring systematic genetic evaluation.© 2026 Gkantaras et al.
Preeclampsia (PE) is a severe pregnancy complication that endangers maternal and fetal health. Accumulating evidence indicates that miR-126-3p is aberrantly expressed in PE placentas, yet its specific regulatory mechanism remains poorly defined. In the present study, we confirmed that miR-126-3p was significantly upregulated in placental tissues from PE patients. Functional assays demonstrated that overexpression of miR-126-3p suppressed proliferation, migration and invasion of HTR-8/SVneo trophoblast cells, and induced cell apoptosis, while miR-126-3p knockdown exerted opposite effects. Dual-luciferase reporter assay verified that miR-126-3p directly targeted PIK3R. Further mechanism experiments revealed that miR-126-3p inactivated the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. Intervention with PI3K agonist and inhibitor further validated that miR-126-3p modulated trophoblast biological behaviors dependent on the PI3K/AKT pathway. In conclusion, elevated miR-126-3p contributes to the development and progression of PE via inhibiting the PI3K/AKT pathway through targeting PIK3R2. This work provides a novel molecular mechanism and potential therapeutic target for PE.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Acute lung injury (ALI) is a life‑threatening respiratory disease characterized by excessive inflammation, oxidative stress, and autophagic dysregulation. Traditional Chinese medicine has emerged as a promising strategy for managing respiratory inflammatory conditions. Ficus tikoua Bur. (FT), a well‑known ethnomedicinal prescription used for pneumonia in Guizhou, China, warrants investigation into its effects and mechanisms in ALI. This study integrated UHPLC‑Q‑TOF‑MS/MS chemical profiling, network pharmacology, molecular docking, and lipopolysaccharide‑challenged mouse model to characterize FT's bioactive constituents and therapeutic mechanisms. FT extract (FTE) significantly attenuated lung injury, reduced inflammatory cytokines (TNF‑α and IL‑6), and decreased oxidative stress markers (MPO and MDA). Network pharmacology and molecular docking identified stable interactions between core FT compounds and five key targets (mTOR, AKT1, PIK3CA, PIK3CB, and PIK3CD). Experimental validation further revealed that FTE inhibited PI3K/AKT overactivation, as evidenced by reduced p‑PI3K and AKT expression, while concurrently restoring autophagic homeostasis through downregulation of Beclin‑1 and LC3‑II/I and upregulation of p62. These findings demonstrate that FTE alleviates ALI through coordinated regulation of the PI3K/AKT pathway and autophagic homeostasis. Collectively, this study provides a mechanistic foundation for FT as a multi‑component therapeutic candidate against ALI and offers new perspectives for natural product‑based drug discovery.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The COVID-19 caused by SARS-CoV-2 has resulted in widely variable clinical outcomes. The virus relies on host metabolic pathways particularly the PI3K/AKT/mTOR axis, which regulate cell survival, metabolism, and viral replication. Genetic variants whitin this pathway may influence disease severity. This study evaluated variants in PI3K genes among 216 mild and 291 severe COVID-19 patients, focusing on rs3730089 (PIK3R1), rs785468 (PIK3R3), and rs11121484 (PIK3CD). Genotypes were evaluted in peripheral blood samples, inflammatory cytokines (IL-6 and TNF) were measured in plasma samples and immune cell profiles were assessed in peripheral blood mononuclear cells. The C allele of rs11121484 was associated with susceptibility to severe COVID-19, while rs785468 and rs3730089 were correlated with higher mortality risk. The presence of multiple risk alleles showed a cumulative effect on disease outcome. Patients with the GG genotype of rs3730089 had increased IL-6 levels, and carriers of risk alleles displayed reduced non-classic monocytes and CD4 + memory T cells. These findings indicate that PI3K single-nucleotide variants (SNVs) may exacerbate inflammation and immune dysregulation in COVID-19, contributing to severe outcomes. Overall, these results highlight a potential pathological role for PI3K SNVs in driving hyperinflammation in COVID-19 patients and may contributes to predicting the severe outcome of COVID-19 and better disease prognosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs) play crucial regulatory roles in various cancers. However, the mechanisms by which snoRNAs regulate N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modifications in colorectal cancer (CRC) remain unclear. This study systematically deciphered the precise interaction mechanism between SNORD78 and the m6A reader IMP2 in CRC. We demonstrate that SNORD78 specifically stabilizes IMP2 to activate the PIK3CD-CHKA-Kennedy pathway in an m6A-dependent manner, promoting endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS) and phosphatidylcholine (PC) biosynthesis, thereby driving CRC. Conversely, the SNORD78-targeting antisense oligonucleotide (ASO), ASO-78, effectively suppresses ERS and PC levels, inhibiting CRC progression. Mechanistically, SNORD78, relying on the "UAAUGA" element in its C-D box region, specifically binds to the Lys221 ubiquitination site of IMP2, blocking TRIM25-mediated degradation of IMP2 and maintaining its stability. IMP2 enhanced the stability and translation of the target mRNAs PIK3CD and CHKA by recognizing their corresponding m6A positions, m6A-3208 and m6A-1619, respectively, to reshape the phosphatidylcholine metabolite profile in CRC cells. In terms of potential therapeutic strategies, the ASO-78 can significantly inhibit CRC cell proliferation, reduce ERS levels, and decrease phosphatidylcholine content. The combination of ASO-78 and IMP2 inhibitor IMP2-IN1, by dual blocking of the SNORD78-IMP2 axis, exhibits an excellent proliferation-inhibiting effect in CRC organoids. This study not only reveals a mechanism by which the SNORD78-IMP2 interaction regulates CRC occurrence and development but also provides theoretical basis for innovative therapeutic strategies for precise targeting of tumor snoRNA-m6A reader interactions.
African swine fever virus (ASFV) is a lethal pathogen that triggers uncontrolled cytokine storms and severe immunopathology. However, the viral factors responsible for systemic inflammation remain unclear. Here, we show that the ASFV-encoded proteins MGF_110-3L and MGF_110-4L are secreted via the conventional ER-Golgi pathway. Single-cell RNA sequencing of porcine PBMCs revealed that MGF_110-3L preferentially activates inflammatory responses in monocytic cells. Mechanistically, both proteins bind Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) and signal through TLR2/TLR1 and TLR2/TLR6 heterocomplexes, with the co-receptor CD14 enhancing ligand recognition and signal amplification. These interactions activate MyD88-dependent NF-κB signaling, leading to robust induction of proinflammatory cytokines. ASFV strains lacking either MGF_110-3L or MGF_110-4L cause attenuated cytokine responses in vitro and impaired inflammatory pathology in pigs. Together, these findings establish MGF_110-3L and MGF_110-4L as secreted virulence factors that subvert innate immune recognition and drive lethal inflammation, highlighting their potential as targets for antiviral and vaccine development.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Higher Education Press.
Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) lacks approved disease-modifying therapies. Classical multicomponent prescriptions may act on convergent neurobiological nodes. We combined network pharmacology with in vivo testing to evaluate Yizhi Dihuang Decoction (YZDHD). Constituents were curated from traditional chinese medicine systems pharmacology database and analysis platform (TCMSP) and high-throughput experiment- and reference-guided database of Traditional Chinese Medicine (HERB under blood-brain barrier-aware SwissADME criteria. Targets were inferred, intersected with MCI genes, organized into STRING and MCODE networks, and examined by Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment. Structure-based docking evaluated ligand-protein interactions across network-identified hub targets and ranked complexes by predicted binding energy. Predictions were tested in a D-galactose mouse model using the Morris water maze and novel object recognition, hippocampal histology with hematoxylin and eosin and Nissl staining, transmission electron microscopy, and molecular readouts by Western blot and quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), including PI3K, p-AKT/AKT, p-mTOR/mTOR, LC3-II/LC3-I, and p62/SQSTM1. We identified 152 bioavailable compounds and 381 overlapping targets that converged on hub kinases including AKT1, PIK3CA, PIK3CD, and mTOR; docking supported feasible engagement. In vivo, YZDHD improved spatial learning and recognition memory, preserved hippocampal cytoarchitecture and mitochondrial integrity, increased LC3-II/LC3-I, decreased p62/SQSTM1, and reduced activation indices of AKT and mTOR. YZDHD ameliorates MCI-like deficits by rebalancing PI3K-AKT-mTOR signaling and restoring autophagy-related activity. Signals for mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF-1), epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), and toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) broaden the mechanistic hypothesis space and warrant targeted follow-up.
The 2021 WHO classification permits diagnosis of glioblastoma in IDH-wildtype diffuse astrocytic tumors with TERT promoter mutation, EGFR amplification, or chromosome 7 gain/10 loss, even without necrosis or microvascular proliferation. The clinical behavior of these molecularly defined glioblastomas (molGBM) remains uncertain.We retrospectively analyzed patients with molGBM treated at Hannover Medical School between 2017 and 2024. A contemporaneous histologically defined glioblastoma cohort (hisGBM) served as a control group in an approximately 1:3 ratio. MolGBM were stratified by histological grade and additionally compared with IDH-mutant astrocytomas of corresponding grade. Survival was assessed using Kaplan-Meier analysis, Cox regression, and propensity score matching.Thirty-four patients with molGBM and 103 with hisGBM were included. Compared with hisGBM, molGBM patients were younger (p < 0.001), had higher Karnofsky Performance Status (p < 0.001), and more often presented with seizures (p = 0.006), whereas focal neurological deficits were more frequent in hisGBM. MolGBM showed less contrast enhancement (p < 0.001) and lower Ki-67 indices (p < 0.001). Median overall survival was longer in molGBM (539 vs. 374 days; p = 0.032), but tumor group was not independently associated with survival after adjustment for age and KPS (HR 1.21, 95% CI 0.77-1.90; p = 0.411). In the matched cohort, overall survival did not differ significantly (517 vs. 468 days; p = 0.670). MolGBM had inferior survival to grade-corresponding IDH-mutant astrocytomas (p < 0.001).MolGBM shows a distinct clinical-radiological phenotype, while its apparent survival advantage over hisGBM is influenced by baseline clinical differences.Not applicable.© 2026. The Author(s).
Photoimmunotherapy (PIT) combines antibody specificity with light-activated cytotoxicity to enable precise, spatially and temporally confined cell depletion. However, the leading clinical-stage PIT agent, cetuximab-IR700, can induce inflammation, swelling, and edema that may restrict its use to oncology, likely due to activation of unbound conjugates in illuminated tissues and robust on-target tumor necrosis. To overcome these limitations, we introduce vertamax, a benzoporphyrin-based antibody-photosensitizer conjugate platform engineered to remain quenched until enzymatically activated within target cells, enabling more selective PIT. Vertamax-PIT demonstrated versatility across multiple antibody targets, including T cell (CD2, CD5) and tumor (EGFR) antigens. We show that CD5-directed vertamax-PIT selectively depletes T cells from healthy human skin biopsies, and pathogenic T cells from a single-patient biopsy of CTCL. EGFR-targeted vertamax-PIT inhibited tumor growth without detectable off-target toxicity in vivo, distinguishing it from IR700-PIT. These findings establish vertamax as an alternative and potentially safer PIT platform that may be applied in oncology, autoimmunity, and other settings where inflammation must be minimized.Copyright © 2026 Society for Investigative Dermatology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The GLP-1 receptor agonist semaglutide reduces clinically important kidney outcomes in people with type 2 diabetes and chronic kidney disease (CKD). We aimed to assess the pooled effects of semaglutide on kidney outcomes in prespecified analyses of participant-level data from the diverse populations of the SELECT, FLOW, and SOUL randomised placebo-controlled trials.Participants with CKD (FLOW) or atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (SELECT and SOUL) were randomly assigned semaglutide (once-weekly subcutaneous 1·0 mg [FLOW], once-weekly subcutaneous 2·4 mg [SELECT], or once-daily oral 14 mg [SOUL]) or matching placebo, added to standard of care. The primary outcome in this pooled analysis was time to first occurrence of a kidney composite, defined as onset of persistent 50% or greater reduction in estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), kidney failure (persistent eGFR <15 mL/min per 1·73 m2, or initiation of kidney replacement therapy), kidney-related death, or cardiovascular-related death. Safety was also assessed.The pooled participants from the trials (N=30 787) had a mean follow-up of 39·5-47·5 months. Among participants assigned to semaglutide, 973 first events of the primary kidney composite occurred compared with 1134 first events for placebo (hazard ratio [HR] 0·84 [95% CI 0·77-0·91]). First events of a narrower secondary kidney composite (excluding cardiovascular-related death from the primary outcome) were also reduced with semaglutide versus placebo (347 and 416, respectively; 0·80 [0·69-0·92]). Safety outcomes were overall similar between groups, and in line with other GLP-1 receptor agonist trials. Serious adverse events were numberically lower with semaglutide than with placebo.Data pooled from three large phase 3 trials suggest that semaglutide reduces the risk of major kidney outcomes in a broad population with cardio-kidney-metabolic disease while having a favourable risk-benefit profile. In people with cardio-kidney-metabolic disease, with and without diabetes, semaglutide (oral or injected) prevents kidney-related and cardiovascular complications and induces adverse events in line with GLP-1 receptor agonist studies, regardless of baseline characteristics within the cardio-kidney-metabolic spectrum. This was a participant-level analysis conducted in a large database of three randomised controlled trials of similar design and examining the same treatment, but there were some differences in participants' baseline characteristics, and in the dose and route of administration of treatment. This pooled analysis adds evidence for the benefit of GLP-1 receptor agonists in general, and semaglutide in particular, in a broad population of people with cardio-kidney-metabolic disease, suggesting that the benefit of semaglutide might not be explained only by its glycaemic effects, weight-management effects, or both.Novo Nordisk.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
Sepsis-induced myocardial injury is a life-threatening complication. Isoquercitrin (IQC), a natural flavonoid glycoside, exhibits anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic properties, yet its role in septic cardiomyopathy remains unclear.IQC targets were predicted via transcriptomics and molecular docking. LPS-induced AC16 cardiomyocyte injury and cecal ligation puncture (CLP) rat models were established. Cell viability and apoptosis were assessed by CCK-8 and flow cytometry. Inflammatory cytokines were measured using ELISA. Myocardial injury and fibrosis were evaluated via HE and Masson staining. Protein expression was analyzed by Western blot. EGFR knockdown and inhibitor (MTX-531) were applied for mechanistic validation.EGFR was identified as a high-affinity target of IQC, with PI3K-AKT being the most enriched pathway. In vitro, IQC restored cell viability, suppressed apoptosis, and reduced inflammation in LPS-stimulated AC16 cells-effects reversed by EGFR knockdown or PI3K/AKT inhibition. In vivo, IQC alleviated myocardial injury, fibrosis, and apoptosis in septic rats, accompanied by reduced inflammation and activated EGFR/PI3K/AKT signaling. These benefits were abolished by MTX-531.Isoquercitrin mitigates sepsis-induced myocardial injury by targeting the EGFR/PI3K/AKT pathway, thereby inhibiting inflammation and apoptosis. IQC represents a promising therapeutic candidate for sepsis-related cardiac damage.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) is a clinically validated target for B-cell malignancies, yet covalent inhibitors are limited by acquired resistance and cumulative off-target toxicities. To address these challenges, we employed a scaffold-hopping strategy from larotinib, by integrating a benzoyl hydrazine pharmacophore into the 4-aminoquinoline scaffold to explore a potential non-covalent binding mode. Systematic optimization yielded compound 10m, which exhibited moderate but promising BTK inhibitory activity (IC50 = 126.70 ± 16.69 nM), acceptable kinase selectivity with reduced activity against key off-targets of ibrutinib (EGFR, ITK, BMX, TEC), and potent antiproliferative activity in U-937 cells (IC50 = 0.89 ± 0.01 μM). Western blot analysis confirmed dose-dependent suppression of BTK phosphorylation (Tyr223). Flow cytometry revealed G0/G1 cell cycle arrest and concentration-dependent apoptosis induction. In the U-937 xenograft model, 10m achieved 95.5% tumor growth inhibition at 100 mg/kg i.p. without significant toxicity. Molecular docking studies showed that 10m retains the binding mode of larotinib while forming additional hydrogen bonds, consistent with a reversible binding mode supported by docking and positioned away from Cys481. These results validate the design strategy and position 10m as a promising lead for next-generation non-covalent BTK inhibitors for the treatment of hematologic malignancies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42566651
Anemia commonly accompanies chronic kidney disease, but the direction of the association between anemia and diabetic kidney disease remains uncertain. We examined the association using cross-sectional NHANES data and explored potential causal associations using 2-sample Mendelian randomization. We conducted a cross-sectional analysis of adults with type 2 diabetes from the 2009-2018 NHANES cycles. Survey-weighted logistic regression and restricted cubic spline analyses were used to evaluate the associations of anemia and hemoglobin levels with presumed DKD, albuminuria, and reduced eGFR. Two-sample Mendelian randomization was subsequently performed to explore potential causal associations between anemia-related phenotypes and DKD. Anemia was more prevalent among participants with presumed DKD than among those without presumed DKD (21.6% vs 9.6%). In survey-weighted regression models, anemia was associated with higher odds of presumed DKD, albuminuria, and reduced eGFR, whereas higher hemoglobin levels were inversely associated with these outcomes. Restricted cubic spline analyses indicated L-shaped associations. Mendelian randomization estimates suggested potential associations of genetically predicted general anemia, iron deficiency anemia, and vitamin B12 deficiency anemia with DKD; however, significant heterogeneity was observed across SNP-specific estimates. Anemia was associated with higher odds of presumed DKD, albuminuria, and reduced eGFR among adults with type 2 diabetes. Mendelian randomization analyses provided suggestive evidence of potential causal associations between anemia-related phenotypes and DKD. However, the cross-sectional design, relaxed SNP-selection threshold, and significant heterogeneity warrant cautious interpretation and independent validation.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) is often present on the cell surface of a wide variety human malignancies, including non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), glioblastoma (GBM), pancreatic ductal carcinoma (PDC), and castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC). Efforts to optimize immunotherapies targeting EGFR are limited by murine intolerance of human EGFR. To overcome this obstacle, we developed C57BL/6 mice in which a truncated variant of human EGFR (hEGFRt), lacking the ligand binding domain and cytoplasmic domain, is expressed from the CAG regulatory elements comprised of the CMV enhancer, β-actin promoter, and β-globin poly-adenylation signals. Cetuximab, a high-affinity, clinically available anti-human EGFR antibody, retains affinity for hEGFRt. The hEGFRt cDNA in the CAG-hEGFRt transgene is flanked by loxP sites to enable its excision thereby reducing interaction of hEGFRt-directed immunotherapies with normal tissues. The CAG-hEGFRt(f/f) transgene is abundantly expressed in hematopoietic lymphoid and myeloid cells, with low-level expression evident also in non-hematopoietic liver, lung, kidney, and brain. Mx1-Cre-mediated transgene excision in adult mice reduces hEGFRt ~ 5-fold in blood mononuclear cells. CAG-hEGFRt(f/f) adult mice are tolerant of syngeneic NSCLC, GBM, prostate, and PDC lines expressing hEGFRt. These mice retain hEGFRt tolerance after transgene deletion. CAG-hEGFRt(f/f) mice provide a new and important tool for the development of immunotherapies targeting hEGFR.Copyright: © 2026 Barberi et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Infections are frequent precipitants of acute decompensated heart failure (ADHF) and may alter decongestive trajectories in patients with cardiorenal syndrome type 1 (CRS1), it may reduce diuretic efficacy and increase the risk of kidney injury. However, the impact of infection on decongestion and kidney outcomes in CRS1 remains unclear.We conducted a prospective cohort study including 256 patients with CRS1 hospitalized at a tertiary center (2022-2024). Patients were stratified by the presence of infection, defined as clinical suspicion plus antibiotic therapy. The primary outcome was successful decongestion, assessed by symptoms, biomarkers (BNP/CA-125), and POCUS findings. Secondary outcomes included major adverse kidney events at 10 and 30 days (MAKE: death, kidney replacement therapy [KRT], or ≥25% eGFR decline).Seventy-two patients (28.1%) had infection, presenting with higher BNP (13,405 vs. 25,264 pg/mL, p = 0.012) and lower PaO2 (45 vs. 65.5 mmHg, p = 0.019). Furosemide exposure was comparable (600 vs. 580 mg, p = 0.62). Successful decongestion occurred in 61.4% of patients with infection vs. 59.8% without infection (p = 0.83). Infection was not independently associated with decongestion (aOR 1.28, 95% CI 0.65-2.51) or MAKE-30 (aOR 1.26, 95% CI 0.57-2.79).In CRS1, infection was associated with more severe baseline congestion but did not compromise decongestion rates or increase short-term MAKE. These findings support the notion that achieving decongestion is feasible in patients with ADHF due to infection without an incremental risk of MAKE.Copyright: © 2026 Chávez-Iñiguez et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Primary glomerular diseases (PGDs) are not uncommon in elderly patients, where age-related histological changes, frailty, and multimorbidity overlap with disease-specific drivers of damage. Evidence on the impact of older age at onset on PGD presentation and outcomes remains heterogeneous. This retrospective multicenter study assessed the impact of older age at diagnosis on the clinical-histological presentation, treatment and outcome of PGDs.Adults with biopsy-proven minimal change disease, focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, membranous nephropathy, and IgA nephropathy/vasculitis with nephritis enrolled in CureGN between 2014 and 2023 with available kidney function data were stratified by age at diagnosis into three age groups: young adults (18-39 years), middle-aged adults (40-64 years), and elderly patients (≥65 years). Clinical-histological features and treatment patterns were compared across age groups, with a focus on elderly patients. Evaluated outcomes included all-cause mortality and a composite kidney outcome (>40% eGFR decline or Kidney Failure). Cox regression and Fine-Gray models were fitted to evaluate the impact of age on the composite kidney outcome.Among 1562 adults, 211 were aged ≥65 years at diagnosis. Elderly patients exhibited a higher comorbidity burden and lower eGFR at enrollment (55 [34-75] versus 84 [50-115] in young adults and 65 [43-91] ml/min in middle-aged adults, P<0.001). In 704 biopsies with an available Cure Glomerulopathy Pathology Classification, nephrosclerosis features-particularly arteriosclerosis-increased with advancing age, whereas disease-specific features were similar across age groups. Elderly patients more often received conservative or steroid-sparing regimens. A 5-year excess mortality of 7-14% compared with young adults was observed in the elderly. In adjusted models, older age was independently protective for the composite kidney outcome (subdistribution HR 0.65 - 0.79).Aging adds comorbidity and histological chronicity without altering PGDs phenotype; excess mortality and, possibly, underlying biological differences shape outcomes in elderly-onset PGDs.Copyright © 2026 by the American Society of Nephrology.
The unfolded protein response (UPR) preserves endoplasmic reticulum proteostasis through coordinated signaling pathways, including the IRE1α-XBP1 axis, which promotes adaptive transcriptional programs via noncanonical XBP1 mRNA splicing. However, upstream mechanisms regulating this pathway remain incompletely defined. Here, we apply CRASP-seq, a scalable RNA-coupled CRISPR screening platform, to systematically identify regulators of XBP1 splicing. We uncovered the U2 snRNP auxiliary factor RBM39 as a critical positive regulator of this process. Perturbation of RBM39 or U2 snRNP components induces alternative splicing of ERN1, leading to exon-18 skipping and the production of an unstable transcript subject to nonsense-mediated decay, as well as a truncated IRE1α isoform that acts in a dominant-negative manner to suppress XBP1 splicing. Mechanistically, we show that heat shock reduces RBM39 functional activity and promotes ERN1 exon-18 skipping, thereby attenuating IRE1α-XBP1 signaling. Functionally, hyperactivation of this pathway is detrimental under proteotoxic stress, suggesting that exon-18 skipping serves as a stress-adaptive mechanism to limit UPR output. Together, our findings reveal a previously unrecognized regulatory axis linking the canonical splicing machinery to UPR signaling and establish alternative splicing of ERN1 as a key modulator of cellular stress responses.Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.
Antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) are expanding treatment options in endometrial carcinoma, but the distribution of actionable surface targets across histologic, molecular, and genomic subgroups remains incompletely defined.This single-institution retrospective tissue microarray (TMA) study included 312 endometrial carcinomas: 158 endometrioid and 154 serous tumors. Trophoblast cell-surface antigen 2 (TROP2) was quantified by histochemical score (H-score); human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) was assessed using endometrial carcinoma-specific and gastric/DESTINY-PanTumor02 criteria; and folate receptor alpha (FRα) positivity was defined as ≥75% viable tumor cells with ≥2+ membranous staining. Molecular class was assigned using a hierarchical DNA polymerase epsilon (POLE)-mutant, microsatellite instability/mismatch repair-deficient (MSI/MMRd), p53-abnormal, and no specific molecular profile (NSMP) classifier. Tumor mutational burden (TMB) and recurrent genomic alterations were analyzed in relation to biomarker expression.TROP2 was broadly expressed, with median H-scores of 280 in endometrioid and 200 in serous carcinomas. HER2 gastric-score 2+/3+ expression and FRα positivity were enriched in serous versus endometrioid carcinoma (22.5% vs 8.9% and 20.1% vs 4.4%), restricted to FIGO grade 3 tumors, and concentrated in p53-abnormal disease. FRα positivity was absent in POLE-mutant and MSI/MMRd tumors. HER2 2+/3+ expression correlated with erb-b2 receptor tyrosine kinase 2 (ERBB2) alterations, whereas FRα-positive tumors were enriched for TP53 alterations and showed lower frequencies of ARID1A and PTEN alterations. Triple-negative TROP2/HER2/FRα tumors were uncommon (6/308, 1.9%).TROP2 is broadly expressed in endometrial carcinoma, whereas HER2 and FRα define a more restricted high-grade, serous/serous-like, p53-abnormal compartment, supporting biomarker-informed ADC development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567017 is a review article
Copyright: &copy; 2026 dos Santos et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License (CC BY 4.0), which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited. Ewing sarcoma (ES) is an aggressive childhood tumor. We have previously shown that tropomyosin receptor kinase (Trk) neurotrophin receptors regulate viability, and the Trk and multi-kinase inhibitor K252a restores sensitivity to chemotherapy, in ES cells. Here, we show that administration of K252a in mice transiently delays ES tumor growth and reduces expression and phosphorylation of multiple targets. BALB/c nu/nu nude mice inoculated with SK-ES-1 ES cells were given daily intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections of K252a for 18 days. Immunohistochemical analysis of tumors was performed to quantify the expression and phosphorylation of Trk receptors, phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K), and insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R). Treatment with K252a led to a partial and transient delay in ES tumor growth and reduced the expression and phosphorylation of TrkA, TrkB, PI3K, and IGF1R. Combined treatment with K252a and the IGF1R inhibitor NVP-ADW742 was more effective in reducing ES cell viability than each compound alone. Associations between genes encoding Trks, PI3K, and IGF1R and overall survival (OS) in patients with ES was examined. Significant associations between expression of NTRK genes and patient OS were found, indicating that NTRK genes should be further evaluated as biomarkers for prognosis in patients with ES.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563691 is a review article
Influenza A virus (IAV) remains a major global health threat due to its high mutation rate and the emergence of antiviral resistance. Targeting host factors provides an alternative therapeutic strategy to overcome these challenges. Previous studies have shown that the L-type calcium channel Cav1.2 was implicated in viral infections. In this study, we aimed to clarify the mechanism by which Cav1.2 acts as a critical host factor mediating IAV infection, using the dihydropyridine-type calcium channel blocker nisoldipine. Nisoldipine showed notable antiviral activity in both in vitro and in vivo models. Mechanistically, nisoldipine inhibited IAV internalization by targeting Cav1.2, thereby suppressing calcium-dependent activation of the Ras-PI3K-AKT, RhoA-ROCK, and JNK pathways associated with viral internalization. Moreover, nisoldipine modulated the unfolded protein response (UPR) in host cells by promoting adaptive XBP1 splicing and contributed to the maintenance of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) homeostasis during IAV infection. Collectively, these observations support a sequential cascade model: Cav1.2 inhibition restrains viral entry and indirectly mitigates virus-triggered ER stress. Furthermore, nisoldipine exhibits broad-spectrum in vitro antiviral activity against multiple enveloped RNA and DNA viruses, including human coronavirus OC43 (HCoV-OC43), respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), Zika virus (ZIKV), Dengue virus Type 2 (DENV2), and Herpes Simplex Virus Type 1/2 (HSV-1/2). This study clarifies the mechanistic involvement of Cav1.2 in IAV infection and further identifies it as a promising broad-spectrum antiviral target with potential applications in preventing and treating influenza, human coronavirus infections, and other emerging viral diseases.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
HER2/ERBB2 kinase inhibition provides a useful case study for connecting curated bioactivity data, ligand-based modelling, chemical-space design, and structure-based triage. This study developed an applicability-domain-aware workflow for prioritizing scaffold-constrained HER2 kinase inhibitor analogs. Exact nanomolar IC50 records from ChEMBL target CHEMBL1824 were cleaned, converted to pIC50 values, aggregated at molecule level, and encoded as 2,048-bit Morgan fingerprints. Tree-ensemble classifiers gave the strongest ligand-based performance, and repeated scaffold-split validation was used to estimate scaffold-level generalization. Four HER2-associated Bemis-Murcko frameworks were selected for constrained R-group enumeration, yielding 500,000 valid analogs. Composite screening combined predicted HER2 activity, maximum-reference Tanimoto similarity as an applicability-domain measure, preferred physicochemical filters, and parent-scaffold priority, followed by Butina diversity selection of 100 docking-ready ligands. Synthetic-feasibility triage indicated that 94 of the 100 final ligands passed conservative RDKit-based medicinal-chemistry criteria. Wild-type docking, Prime MMGBSA rescoring, interaction-fingerprint comparison, and profiling against L755S, T798I, V777L, and V842I HER2 mutant receptors prioritized GEN_0015905 as the leading wild-type MMGBSA analog and highlighted GEN_0268162, GEN_0394004, and GEN_0015892 as follow-up candidates with smaller predicted wild-type-to-mutant score shifts. The workflow provides a reproducible computational route for selecting experimentally testable HER2 analogs while keeping model extrapolation, chemical diversity, and structure-based interpretation explicit. Repeated validation also showed the expected drop from random-split to scaffold-split performance, with random forest ROC-AUC decreasing from 0.973 ± 0.006 under repeated random splits to 0.956 ± 0.015 under repeated scaffold splits.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Therapeutic protein overexpression can overwhelm endoplasmic reticulum (ER) folding capacity, trigger unfolded protein response (UPR) signaling, and compromise the safety of gene and mRNA therapies. Here, we engineer stress-responsive RNA rheostats that couple transgene expression to endogenous ER stress sensing. Short RNA elements derived from X-box-binding protein 1 (XBP1) mRNA undergo inositol-requiring enzyme 1α (IRE1α)-dependent splicing under ER stress, inducing a frameshift that attenuates downstream protein expression. XBP1 switches function across DNA and mRNA delivery platforms and regulate the expression of fluorescent reporters, coagulation factor VIII, and Leronlimab, a therapeutic anti-CCR5 monoclonal antibody. Switch activation reduces ER stress markers while preserving expression under homeostatic conditions. We further demonstrate the regulation of Leronlimab expression in vivo using recombinant adeno-associated virus vectors. Together, these findings establish programmable RNA feedback control as a strategy for linking cellular proteostasis to therapeutic protein expression and improving the safety of gene and mRNA therapies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Long-term excessive fluoride ingestion may lead to skeletal fluorosis, a disease characterized by unclear pathogenesis and lack of effective cure. Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles (BMSCs-EVs) exert a crucial regulatory effect on bone remodeling and have broad clinical application prospects. Whether BMSCs-EVs can participate in the occurrence and development of skeletal fluorosis by transferring miRNAs is a scientific question worth exploring. In this study, miRNA sequencing was used to screen for differentially expressed miRNAs in fluoride-exposed rBMSCs-EVs (F-EVs). The top 15 differentially expressed miRNAs were subjected to target gene prediction, and GO and KEGG analyses as well as PPI network construction were performed. On this basis, miR-320-3p was selected for in-depth study. First, our data revealed that miR-320-3p was upregulated in fluoride-exposed osteoblasts and was involved in the enhancement of fluoride-induced osteogenic differentiation. Subsequently, a tracing experiment confirmed that rBMSCs-EVs and their miR-320-3p could be successfully taken up by fluoride-exposed osteoblasts. Then, elevated levels of miR-320-3p in F-EVs could further promote the enhancement of fluoride-induced osteogenic differentiation, while EVs with inhibited miR-320-3p exerted a significant inhibitory effect. Mechanism studies revealed that under fluoride exposure, rBMSCs-EVs could regulate Igf1r/ERK1/2/MAPK by transferring miR-320-3p, thereby affecting osteogenic differentiation. This study is the first to elucidate the pathogenesis of skeletal fluorosis from the rBMSCs-EVs miRNAs and provides new ideas for the clinical management of skeletal fluorosis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Liver tissue engineering offers a promising alternative for end-stage liver disease, yet the recreation of functional vasculature remains a major bottleneck to clinical translation. Here, we developed vascularized liver organoids by integrating human induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived hepatoblasts and endothelial cells into decellularized scaffolds functionalized with an anti-CD31 aptamer-based vascular coating agent (VCA). This facilitated spatially coordinated organization of vasculature and parenchyma. Spatial transcriptomic profiling and subsequent functional perturbation demonstrated IGF2-IGF1R-AKT/MAPK signaling as a key axis governing spatial organization and functional maturation of the liver organoids. Furthermore, exogenous IGF2 synergized with the VCA to augment the structural and functional refinement of liver organoids, which translated into markedly improved therapeutic outcomes following transplantation into a chronic liver failure mouse model. Collectively, these findings establish a comprehensive framework for generating physiologically relevant liver tissues from iPSCs and demonstrate the utility of spatial transcriptomics for uncovering regenerative mechanisms. This approach advances the feasibility of autologous, transplantable liver grafts for personalized regenerative therapy.
Upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) is an aggressive malignancy with limited molecular characterization in advanced disease. FGFR3 alterations are well established in low-grade urothelial carcinoma, but their prevalence, stability, and biological significance in locally advanced and metastatic UTUC remain only partially defined. We performed an integrated morphologic, immunohistochemical, and molecular analysis of 24 locally advanced and/or metastatic UTUC from 20 patients. FGFR3 status was assessed by RT-PCR across multiple tumor compartments, including biopsies, primary tumors, lymph-node metastases, and distant metastatic sites. Immunohistochemistry included CK20, CK5, GATA3, p53, and mismatch repair proteins. Targeted next-generation sequencing (NGS) was used to characterize co-occurring genomic alterations and to assess concordance with p53 immunophenotype. FGFR3 alterations were identified in 50% of patients and in 54.2% of analyzed tumors. FGFR3 status showed high intra-patient stability, with concordance between primary tumors and distant metastases in 90% of cases, whereas concordance with lymph node metastases was lower (50%), suggesting site-specific clonal divergence. Despite advanced stage, 92.3% of FGFR3-altered tumors displayed papillary urothelial carcinoma morphology, and most showed a luminal immunophenotype (61.5% by CK20/CK5 and 69.2% by GATA3/CK5). Targeted NGS revealed additional pathogenic alterations in 75% of patients, most frequently involving RTK/RAS/MAPK signaling (70%), cell-cycle regulation (25%), and PI3K/AKT pathway components (10%). TP53 mutations co-occurred with FGFR3 alterations in 60% of FGFR3-mutated patients and showed 90.4% concordance with p53 immunohistochemistry. Finally, a few cases exhibited complex, multi-site FGFR3 mutational patterns, consistent with intratumoral clonal evolutions. In conclusion, FGFR3 alterations are frequent and remarkably stable in advanced UTUC, even in high-grade and metastatic disease. These findings support the reliability of FGFR3 testing on limited diagnostic material and reinforce its relevance for therapeutic stratification. UTUC emerges as a molecularly dynamic disease in which early oncogenic drivers such as FGFR3 continue to shape tumor biology and therapeutic vulnerability at advanced stages.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Asthma is a heterogeneous inflammatory airway disease characterized by immune dysregulation, airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR), and excessive immune activation. Although NLRP3 (NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing 3) has been extensively studied in asthma, its role remains controversial, and the contribution of DNA sensor AIM2 (Absent in Melanoma 2) is less well defined. To assess AIM2's relevance in asthma, we analyzed public human datasets and found increased AIM2, but not NLRP3, expression in severe asthma and in neutrophilic compared with paucigranulocytic asthma. In allergic asthma models induced by ovalbumin (OVA)-lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or house dust mite (HDM), AIM2 expression was increased in lung homogenates and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid cells. Analysis of a published single-cell RNA-seq dataset from the HDM model further showed increased Aim2, but not Nlrp3, expression in T helper cells, with most Aim2-expressing cells coexpressing Gata3. In the OVA-LPS model, whole-body Aim2 deficiency reduced AHR, inflammatory cytokine production, airway smooth muscle actin, and γH2A.X, consistent with decreased airway remodeling and tissue stress. Unexpectedly, CD4-specific, but not Treg- or myeloid-specific, Aim2 deletion significantly attenuated disease, identifying AIM2 in CD4+ T cells as a major driver of pathogenesis. In the HDM model, Aim2 deficiency similarly reduced AHR. Cell-specific deletion showed that AIM2 in CD4+ T cells promotes AHR and cytokine production, whereas AIM2 in myeloid cells modulates IgG1, IL-13-producing CD4+ T cells, and alveolar macrophages. These findings identify AIM2 as a regulator of allergic asthma acting predominantly through T cells, with an additional context-dependent contribution from myeloid cells.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565948 is a review article
Liupao tea (LPT) undergoes significant bioactive changes during aging, while the link between these chemical shifts and the regulation of oxidative stress pathologies remains unclear. Therefore, this study integrated metabolomics, network pharmacology, and molecular docking to analyze Maosheng (MS) and Tianyu (TY) LPT samples aged 0-15 and 0-10 years, respectively, and elucidated the potential mechanisms of LPT in five oxidative stress - related diseases, including depression, obesity, Alzheimer's disease, diabetes, and hypertension. Metabolomics identified 42 and 13 core antioxidant metabolites in MS and TY samples, respectively. Among them, core metabolites in MS peaked at 5 years, while TY sustained high abundance levels from 3 to 8 years. Network pharmacology revealed synergistic regulation of all five pathologies by both LPTs, and eight key components were screened from MS, and nine from TY based on degree values. Interestingly, the highest node density was shown in depression, and Sankey connectivity confirmed its strongest modulatory effect. Besides, the core depression‑related components and targets were subjected to molecular docking simulations, and binding energies ranged from - 5.37 to -8.88 kcal/mol for MS components, as well as from - 4.11 to -8.39 kcal/mol for TY components. Importantly, oleaside A and CCRIS 7793 showed the strongest affinities for GAPDH and AKT1, respectively. In general, these results laid a practical foundation for developing an LPT product aimed at relieving oxidative stress-related health issues.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Considering the shared physiological mechanisms between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), it is plausible that certain compounds may exert therapeutic effects on both neurological disorders. This study aimed to employ in silico techniques to investigate the pharmacological mechanisms of huperzine A (HA) as an alternative treatment for PD and AD.Molecular targets of HA and genes associated with AD and PD were identified from public databases. Gene Ontology analysis, metabolic pathway analysis, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction were performed to identify shared molecular targets. Molecular docking was performed to assess HA affinity for hub proteins and to compare it with that of drugs used to treat AD and PD.The results suggested that HA interacts with 77 molecular targets common to both diseases. Enrichment analysis revealed that proteins from these targets were involved in biological functions, such as serotonin and amine binding. Hub proteins (SRC, TP53, AKT1, and CASP3) were identified from the PPI network. Furthermore, molecular docking simulations showed favorable binding of HA to the hub proteins and adequate binding to the targets of standard drugs (MAOB and ACHE). On the other hand, molecular dynamics analyses were performed to compare the binding characteristics of HA with those of the control targets.HA may modulate SRC, CASP3, and AKT1, suggesting a pleiotropic mechanism underlying the association between AD and PD. These computational findings provide a rational basis for experimental validation by modulating signaling pathways implicated in inflammatory processes and inhibiting enzymes involved in neurotransmitter degradation.This study contributes to the understanding of the neuroprotective activity of HA in AD and PD. However, further in vitro and in vivo investigations are required to confirm the dual therapeutic potential of HA in the treatment of AD and PD.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a genetic disorder predisposing patients to malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors (MPNSTs), which represent a leading cause of mortality with poor therapeutic outcomes. Large MPNSTs with NF1 are extremely rare, and only a few clinical reports are published on this disease. We describe a case of giant cervicothoracic MPNST with major vessels encased and present the clinical profiles, radiological findings, operative management, and follow-up data, along with a literature review.A 30-year-old male patient complained of an incidentally discovered painful mass in the right neck that had been progressively enlarging, accompanied by right hand weakness and intrinsic muscle atrophy. Contrast-enhanced MRI revealed a giant tumor closely related with the right brachial plexus and intervertebral foramina of C6-T2. The right subclavian artery and internal jugular vein were tightly encased by the tumor. A multidisciplinary approach incorporating advanced 3D imaging, preoperative vertebral artery embolization, and en bloc resection with vascular reconstruction achieved successful tumor removal while preserving neurological function. The patient received adjuvant radiotherapy and was followed up on the 6th and 12th months postoperatively. There were no complaints or signs of recurrence.The successful long-term outcome provides a valuable template for managing similar high-risk cases, though long-term surveillance remains crucial due to the high recurrence potential of MPNSTs. This report contributes to the limited literature on radical surgical management of NF1-associated MPNSTs and emphasizes the critical balance between oncological control and functional preservation in these challenging cases.© 2026 Yongning, Hongxun, Xiaohai, Kuangwen, Wenbo and Lei.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564247 is a review article
Trichorhinophalangeal syndrome type 1 (TRPS1), a novel GATA transcription factor, has emerged as a sensitive and largely breast-specific marker across various carcinoma subtypes, including metastatic tumors. However, its specificity in adrenal neoplasms has not been explored. Given the prevalence of adrenal cortical and medullary neoplasms, alongside metastatic breast carcinoma, we aimed to investigate the diagnostic specificity of TRPS1 in a cohort of adrenal lesions. Semi-quantitative immunohistochemical expression for TRPS1 was compared to GATA3 and mammaglobin in 64 adrenal cortical lesions (4 adrenal rests, 6 adrenal cortical hyperplasia, 43 adrenal cortical adenomas, 4 adrenal cortical neoplasms of uncertain malignant potential, 7 adrenal cortical carcinomas) and 35 pheochromocytomas using tissue microarray technology. TRPS1 staining was absent in all pheochromocytomas and adrenal cortical lesions. Moderate to strong nuclear GATA3 positivity was identified in the majority of pheochromocytomas (77%), while only a small subset of adrenal cortical lesions (4%) demonstrated moderate to weak nuclear staining. Mammaglobin was negative in adrenal cortical lesions, although focal patchy positivity was seen in 6% of pheochromocytomas. When characterizing adrenal gland lesions in the context of metastatic breast carcinoma, TRPS1 demonstrates excellent specificity, showing no immunohistochemical expression in primary adrenal lesions. Mammaglobin, while largely specific (94%), offers limited diagnostic value due to occasional focal, non-specific staining in pheochromocytomas. In contrast, GATA3 lacks diagnostic specificity, as it is frequently expressed in pheochromocytomas and occasionally in adrenal cortical lesions, restricting its utility in this setting. Overall, TRPS1 emerges as the preferred marker for routine diagnostic practice in this setting.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The infrapatellar fat pad (IFP) is increasingly recognized as an active contributor to knee osteoarthritis (KOA) pathogenesis. However, age-related transcriptional changes in the IFP remain poorly understood, and whether observed differences are purely age-dependent or confounded by disease status is unclear. This study aimed to compare transcriptomic profiles of the IFP between young patients with traumatic knee injury and older patients with KOA.IFP samples were obtained from three young trauma patients (21-28 years, KL grade 0) and three older patients with KOA (64-72 years, KL grade III-IV). Bulk RNA sequencing was performed to compare transcriptomes between groups. Differential expression was analyzed with DESeq2 (|log2FC| ≥1, unadjusted p < 0.05), followed by GO and KEGG pathway enrichment. Real-time PCR confirmed key expression changes.Compared with the young trauma group, the old KOA group exhibited 247 upregulated (CSN1S1, SCN9A, P2RY14, EIF3C, etc) and 334 downregulated genes (PI15, WISP3, DMKN, NUTM2G, etc). The old KOA group exhibited significantly reduced expression of extracellular matrix (ECM) genes, including COL1A1, COL2A1, and FN1. Additionally, core genes of the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, such as AKT1, ITGA2B, and MYB, were also downregulated in the old KOA group.The IFP in old KOA exhibits a transcriptomic profile characterized by dampened ECM structural gene expression and suppressed PI3K-Akt signaling compared with young trauma patients. While confounded by injury status, these findings suggest that age-related loss of ECM integrity may contribute to IFP dysfunction in established KOA and warrant validation in healthy aging cohorts.
The restoration of liver mass after partial hepatectomy (PH) and split liver transplantation (SLT) relies on efficient liver regeneration, a process highly susceptible to metabolic dysregulation. Although remodeling of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle is commonly observed during liver injury and regeneration, the specific role of succinic acid remains unclear. Here, we integrated radiomics, transcriptomics, metabolomics, and functional assays to systematically evaluate the association between succinic acid and liver regeneration. Multi-omics analysis of 20 SLT patients demonstrated that elevated succinic acid levels were strongly associated with impaired regenerative outcomes, and weighted gene co-expression network analysis identified the TCA cycle as a key regeneration-associated metabolic module. In a 70% PH mouse model, succinic acid administration was associated with reduced survival and decreased hepatocyte proliferation, consistent with impaired liver regeneration. Mechanistically, succinic acid exhibited distinct effects in different cell types: in macrophages, it enhanced inflammatory activation and increased interleukin-6 (IL-6) secretion, whereas in hepatocytes it reduced IL-6-induced STAT3 phosphorylation and downstream regenerative signaling. Furthermore, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and surface plasmon resonance assays supported an interaction between succinic acid and the STAT3 SH2 domain, providing structural evidence consistent with modulation of STAT3 signaling. Collectively, these findings suggest that succinic acid may function as an immunometabolic regulator that contributes to impaired liver regeneration by altering macrophage-derived IL-6 signaling and hepatocyte STAT3 activation. These findings also support further investigation of the succinic acid-STAT3 axis as a potential therapeutic target for promoting liver regeneration following hepatic injury or resection.© 2026. The Author(s).
Vocal fold fibrosis (VFF), characterized by excessive extracellular matrix deposition, leads to permanent voice impairment, with current therapies often failing to restore vocal function. Current treatments are limited by suboptimal efficacy and high recurrence rates. Dysregulated energy metabolism is emerging as a critical driver of fibrosis. AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), a central cellular energy sensor, exerts broad antifibrotic effects in multiple organs, yet the therapeutic potential of novel AMPK activators, such as Aldometanib, in VFF remains to be fully characterized. This study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic potential and mechanisms of Aldometanib, a novel AMPK activator, in vocal fold fibrosis.A controlled animal study was conducted using an SD rat vocal fold injury model. Animals were randomly allocated into four groups: control, injury, and injury treated with low or high doses of Aldometanib. Primary vocal fold fibroblasts were isolated and cultured, then stimulated with TGF-β1 to induce fibroblast activation, followed by treatment with different concentrations of the AMPK activator Aldometanib. Key outcome measures included histopathological analysis of collagen deposition (Alcian blue and EVG staining), protein and gene expression levels of fibrotic markers (α-SMA, COL1A1, FN1), and components of the JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway (p-AMPK, p-JAK2, p-STAT3).In vivo, compared with the injury only group, Aldometanib treatment significantly improved the histological architecture of the vocal fold lamina propria. These changes were accompanied by increased p-AMPK levels and decreased expression of p-JAK2, p-STAT3, α-SMA, COL1A1, and FN1. In vitro, Aldometanib attenuated TGF-β1-induced fibroblast activation, and these effects were effectively reversed by co-treatment with the AMPK inhibitor DOX, confirming AMPK pathway dependency.Pharmacological activation of AMPK with Aldometanib effectively alleviates vocal fold fibrosis by inhibiting the JAK2/STAT3 signaling axis. This study identifies AMPK as a promising novel therapeutic target for vocal fold fibrosis, supporting future development of more potent or specific AMPK activators and localized delivery systems for clinical translation.Copyright © 2026 The Voice Foundation. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Liver fibrosis is a major global health issue with limited treatment options. Activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) induces collagen deposition, which is a core step in the progression of liver fibrosis. MicroRNA221-3p (miR221-3p) is a key profibrotic regulator of the activation of hepatic stellate cells. Sensitive and selective imaging and regulation of miR221-3p within complex cellular environments are essential for both diagnosis and therapy, yet remains challenging.To address this, we engineered a miR-on Self-Assembly Cascade (SAC) amplification strategy for miR221-3p visualization and regulation. The system consists of a DNA initiator strand (Hc) and four hairpin strands (H1-H4). MiR221-3p binds to and opens Hc, triggering a self-sustained circular hairpin reporter reaction. The resulting replicas serve as feedback to drive subsequent cycles, achieving exponential signal amplification. This design enables highly sensitive and selective fluorescence imaging of miR221-3p in living cells. Additionally, as a functional demonstration, the SAC system also induced inactivation of HSCs. Mechanistic studies revealed that the SAC strategy disrupts the miR221-3p/Suppressor Of Cytokine Signaling 1 (SOCS1) axis, thereby suppressing Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription 3 (STAT3) phosphorylation, thus alleviating liver fibrosis. In vivo studies further demonstrate the sustained administration of SAC significantly reduced extracellular matrix accumulation and ameliorated liver fibrosis in a CCl4-induced mouse model.Owing to its self-sustained signal amplification, the SAC strategy achieves both sensitive miR221-3p imaging and effective fibrosis suppression. This work provides a robust analytical platform for miRNA-based diagnostics and holds promise for precision medicine in fibrotic and miRNA-related disorders.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Dysregulated calpains and cathepsins contribute to adverse cardiac remodeling following chronic pathological stress, but their interplay and the specific contributions of the classical calpain isoforms remain undefined. Here, we tested whether calpain-2 initiates a lysosome-cathepsin proteolytic axis that promotes pathological hypertrophy through mTORC1-dependent signaling.Calpain expression was analyzed in septal myocardium from patients with aortic stenosis and mice subjected to transverse aortic constriction (TAC). Calpain activity was modulated genetically by Capns1 deletion or pharmacologically with the calpain-2 inhibitor NA-184 in TAC mice. Cathepsins were inhibited with balicatib. In vitro, Capn2 was silenced by siRNA in H9c2 cardiomyoblasts stimulated with angiotensin II.TAC upregulated myocardial calpain-2 expression, which correlated with hypertrophy severity in septal tissue from patients. TAC induced lysosomal membrane permeabilization, evidenced by reduced cathepsin B-lysosome colocalization, and increased cytosolic cathepsin accumulation and activity. Mechanistically, calpain-2 cleaved the lysosomal protein LAMP2, generating a ~ 55 kDa fragment. Both Capns1 deletion and NA-184 preserved LAMP2 and lysosomal integrity, reduced autophagic dysregulation and the activation of the AKT/mTOR signaling, and attenuated cardiac hypertrophy. Capn2 silencing in H9c2 reproduced the effects by reducing LAMP2 proteolysis and hypertrophy. Balicatib produced comparable anti-hypertrophic effects, supporting a sequential calpain-cathepsin signaling cascade. When treatment was extended, NA-184 limited ventricular dilation and attenuated systolic dysfunction (30%, p < 0.001).These findings identify calpain-2-mediated LAMP2 proteolysis as an upstream trigger linking lysosomal dysfunction to pathological hypertrophy, and highlight selective calpain-2 inhibition as a therapeutic strategy for heart failure treatment.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
White adipose tissue (WAT) communicates with distal metabolic organs and regulates their functions by secreting adipokines. Subcutaneous WAT (sWAT) is thought to be metabolically protective but prone to dysfunction with aging and obesity. Chronic activation of p53 is commonly observed in dysfunctional WAT at different anatomical locations in metabolic diseases. However, the impact of MDM2 deletion and its associated p53 activation in sWAT on adipokine profile and systemic metabolism is unknown.To investigate the effects of selective MDM2 deletion and associated p53 activation in sWAT, we administered two independent adipotropic adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors expressing Cre recombinase into the sWAT of Mdm2flox/flox mice to locally delete MDM2, a well-established negative regulator that targets p53 for degradation. Deletion of MDM2 resulted in sustained p53 activation, leading to senescence, apoptosis, and fibrosis in sWAT, but not in other fat depots or metabolic organs. sWAT dysfunction resulting from MDM2 deletion and its associated p53 activation had no obvious impact on systemic glucose or lipid metabolism, but progressively triggered hepatic inflammation, damage, and fibrosis. Proteomic analysis revealed that MDM2 deletion shifted the sWAT adipokine profile toward a more pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic state. Among the MDM2 deletion-induced sWAT-derived factors, galectin-3 acted as a major contributor to hepatic stellate cell activation and fibrogenesis via the STAT3 pathway. At the molecular level, p53 bound to the Lgals3 promoter and upregulated its mRNA expression, thereby increasing galectin-3 secretion primarily in mature adipocytes.Our findings reveal that sWAT dysfunction caused by MDM2 deletion and its associated p53 activation is sufficient to promote hepatic damage and fibrosis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Secondary lymphedema is a debilitating complication following oncologic surgery, characterized by progressive tissue fibrosis and chronic inflammation. Although transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) has been established as a central mediator of fibrotic remodeling, the broader interplay between pro-inflammatory cytokines and downstream fibrotic signaling cascades in post-surgical lymphedematous tissue remains poorly understood.Skin and subcutaneous tissue biopsies were prospectively collected from 126 patients with unilateral breast cancer-related lymphedema and 58 matched controls across three tertiary centers between January 2024 and December 2025. Tissue specimens were analyzed using immunohistochemistry, quantitative real-time PCR, multiplex cytokine profiling, and Western blotting. Correlations between cytokine expression, fibrotic markers, and clinical severity were evaluated.Lymphedematous tissues exhibited significantly elevated expression of TGF-β1, interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-13 (IL-13), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) compared with controls (all P < 0.01). Concurrent activation of Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling pathways was observed, with both correlating positively with disease severity. Multivariate regression identified TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 as independent predictors of fibrotic burden, whereas TNF-α lost significance after adjustment for confounders. Lymphatic vessel density was inversely associated with cytokine levels and fibrotic severity.Secondary upper extremity lymphedema following breast cancer surgery is driven by a coordinated inflammatory and fibrotic axis involving TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 through convergent Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling. These findings support the development of multi-pathway therapeutic strategies beyond single-agent anti-fibrotic approaches for post-surgical lymphedema.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Psoriasis is a chronic immune-mediated inflammatory disease. Inosine Monophosphate Dehydrogenase 2 (IMPDH2), the rate-limiting enzyme in de novo guanine nucleotide biosynthesis, is upregulated during cytokine-mediated inflammatory responses, yet its specific role in keratinocyte biology and psoriatic pathogenesis remains unexplored. Here, we identify IMPDH2 as a critical metabolic regulator of psoriatic inflammation. Integrated analysis of bulk and single-cell RNA sequencing datasets revealed consistent upregulation of IMPDH2 in psoriatic keratinocytes, which was further validated by immunofluorescence staining of patient skin biopsies. In an imiquimod (IMQ)-induced murine psoriasis model, pharmacological inhibition of IMPDH2 with Casticin attenuated disease progression and alleviated epidermal inflammation. Mechanistically, IMPDH2 promotes keratinocyte inflammation through GTP-dependent activation of STAT3 signaling: IMPDH2 knockdown or inhibition reduced STAT3 phosphorylation and suppressed inflammatory responses, effects that were reversed by exogenous GTP supplementation, whereas IMPDH2 overexpression enhanced STAT3 phosphorylation and inflammation. Supporting a direct causal link between IMPDH2 and STAT3, the STAT3 activator colivelin reversed the effect of IMPDH2 inhibition, while the STAT3 inhibitor Stattic abrogated the effect of IMPDH2 overexpression. Collectively, this study establishes a previously unrecognized IMPDH2-GTP-STAT3 axis driving keratinocyte inflammation and nominates Casticin as a promising therapeutic candidate for psoriasis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Sperm cryodamage is a key factor affecting its post-thaw quality. This study aims to systematically elucidate the molecular response mechanisms of bovine sperm cryodamage by integrating transcriptomic and proteomic analyses. By utilizing the swim-up technique to isolate sperm subpopulations with mild and severe cryodamage, thereby minimizing interference from individual genetic variation. Results demonstrated that mildly damaged sperm exhibited superior motility, structural integrity, and antioxidant capacity, along with less reactive oxygen species accumulation and more active Wnt, mTOR, and Hippo signaling pathways at the transcriptional level. Severely damaged sperm exhibited activation of pathways related to oxidative phosphorylation, thermogenesis, peroxisome, glutathione metabolism, phagocytosis, and DNA repair at the protein level, with ATP5MG, GPX1, XRCC1, and AP1M2 serving as core regulatory factors in these pathways. Additionally, integrated analysis identified eight potential biomarker proteins, including apoptosis-related protein ARL6IP5, anti-apoptotic protein GRINA, adhesion factors CDHR1/LGALS1, DNA repair proteins CUL4B/POLR2E, and core factors RPL14/A1BG in the protein-protein interaction network. Notably, the protein levels of ARL6IP5, CDHR1, and LGALS1 were inconsistent with their gene expression levels. These candidate molecules showed significant correlations with post-thaw sperm quality and were quantitatively validated. The results indicate that mitochondrial energy metabolism, antioxidant and anti-apoptotic defense systems, as well as self-repair and clearance responses, including nucleic acid repair and phagocytosis, represent the molecular response characteristics of sperm cryodamage. These findings complement the molecular mechanisms and regulatory networks of sperm cryodamage, and provide potential targets for evaluating the cryopreservation potential of bull semen and optimizing cryoprotectants.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Motivated by the rising incidence of cancers at younger ages, this study compares tumor genomic alterations between adolescents and young adults (AYAs; 18-39 years) and non-AYAs (40 years and older) and explores the relationship with continuous age in patients with relapsed/refractory ovarian, breast, and colorectal cancers accrued to the NCI-MATCH trial.Tumor genomic profiles generated by a next-generation sequencing 143-gene panel (NCI-MATCH assay, v2) were analyzed for association with age (AYA/total: 21/455 ovarian, 27/576 breast, 43/759 colorectal cancers). For each gene, AYA and non-AYA DNA alteration proportions were compared (Fisher exact test) and alteration association with continuous age (logistic regression) was evaluated (false discovery rate‑adjusted P value <.1 statistically significant). For colorectal cancer, sex-stratified analysis was also performed.No significant AYA versus non-AYA differences were observed in the prevalence of gene mutations (single nucleotide variant [SNV]/indel). A significant association of gene amplification with AYAs (odds ratio [OR], 95% CI) was CCND1 (0.2, 0.1-0.4), favoring AYAs in breast cancer. Examining age as a continuous variable, significant associations of gene mutations (SNV/indel) with older age, expressed as 5-year OR (OR [95% CI]), were observed: TP53 (1.3 [1.1 to 1.4]), ovarian cancer; CDH1 (1.4 [1.2 to 1.6]) and PIK3CA (1.1 [1.1 to 1.2]), breast cancer; and BRAF (1.4 [1.2 to 1.7]), female colorectal cancer. Associations with younger age included SMAD4 (0.8 [0.7 to 0.9]), male colorectal cancer. Significant associations of gene amplification with age (continuous) were as follows: CCNE1 (1.3 [1.1 to 1.6]), older ovarian cancer, and CCND1 (0.8 [0.8 to 0.9]), younger breast cancer.Comparing AYAs with non-AYAs among patients having relapsed/refractory disease, no significant differences in SNV/indel prevalence were observed, but CCND1 amplifications were more prevalent in AYA breast cancer. For several genes, DNA alterations were associated with continuous age and may depend on sex in colorectal cancer.
Adoptive T cell therapy requires T cells to infiltrate vascular tissues and preserve immune function. In solid tumor treatment, however, the surrounding microenvironment produces abnormal vasculature that impedes T cell infiltration. An approach that enables vascular normalization and enhances adoptive T cell function in parallel is essential for effective therapy but has not been reported. Here, we report the use of lenvatinib (LEN) to induce transient vascular normalization, thereby facilitating T cell infiltration. Moreover, LEN enhances T cell persistence by promoting the differentiation of T cells toward a memory phenotype. Our results indicate that the differentiation is by suppressing the PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway, which drives effector differentiation, and by activating FOXO1, a transcription factor that promotes memory formation. To coordinate the transient vascular normalization and T cell enhancement, we link LEN-loaded, PD-L1-blocking micelles to T cells through acid-labile click chemistry, forming pH-responsive T cell-nanodrug conjugates. The conjugates synchronize the intratumoral release of LEN and the PD-L1 antagonist peptide OPBP-1, thereby coordinating vascular normalization, T cell differentiation, and checkpoint blockade. In vivo, the conjugates increased intratumoral CD8+ T cells and splenic memory T cells by over sixfold in B16-OVA tumors and achieved complete regression in a subset of MC38-OVA tumors without systemic toxicity, providing a promising strategy for solid tumor immunotherapy.
Plastic additives are pervasive pollutants that readily leach into water, affecting human health; however, their toxicological risk assessment remains limited. This study used network toxicology to identify disease-associated common targets in plastic additives, including benzotriazole, bisphenol A, 2,4-Di-tert-butylphenol, mirex, diphenyl ether, bisphenol S, dibutyl phthalate, PFNA, and PFBS. The core targets identified using network toxicology for these plastic additives were AKT1, PTGS2, BCL2, ESR1, and GSK3B. In addition, an integrated in silico toxicity assessment of selected plastic additives using molecular docking, MM/GBSA analysis, and molecular dynamics simulation was performed to assess neurotoxicity, reproductive toxicity, and carcinogenic potential. Molecular docking revealed the high-scoring docked complexes as PTGS2-benzotriazole (-5.047 kcal/mol), PTGS2-bisphenol A (-5.264 kcal/mol), PTGS2-diphenyl ether (-5.078 kcal/mol), PTGS2-bisphenol S (-5.519 kcal/mol), PTGS2-2,4-di-tert-butylphenol (-5.565 kcal/mol), ESR1-benzotriazole (-5.339 kcal/mol), and ESR1-2,4-di-tert-butylphenol (-5.626 kcal/mol). The stability of highly interacting complexes was then assessed through MM/GBSA calculations and molecular dynamics simulations. A more negative ΔGBind score in MM/GBSA analysis indicated a stronger and more favourable interaction. In silico analysis of plastic additive-biological target interactions identified potential carcinogenic, reproductive, and neurological health hazards and revealed key molecular pathways underlying plastic additive-induced toxicity. Further in vitro/in vivo studies are required to validate these computational findings.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Dapagliflozin shows variable renoprotective efficacy in patients with type 2 diabetic kidney disease (T2DKD). A retrospective clinical analysis confirmed marked interindividual variability in its urinary protein-lowering effects. To investigate the mechanism, drug affinity responsive target stability (DARTS) combined with quantitative proteomics was applied for target identification. Subsequent in vivo and in vitro validation suggested that GSK3β acts as a mediator of dapagliflozin-associated nephroprotection. Dapagliflozin directly bound and partially inhibited GSK3β, and GSK3β activity influenced podocyte protection. To translate findings into clinical relevance, a prospective trial was conducted. The GSK3B rs60393216 polymorphism was associated with urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio (UACR) reduction after dapagliflozin therapy. These findings suggest that GSK3β contributes to the renoprotective effects of dapagliflozin and that GSK3B polymorphisms may influence therapeutic responses in T2DKD.© 2026 Published by Elsevier Inc.
This study investigated the role of Krüppel-like factor 4 (KLF4) in macrophage-mediated inflammation in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) with psoriasis. KLF4, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases 3 (TIMP3)/a disintegrin and a metalloproteinase domain 17 (ADAM17) levels were measured in skin samples from patients. A diabetic psoriasis-like dermatitis mouse model was established using imiquimod (IMQ) and treated with KLF4-overexpressing lentivirus. Glucose/lipid metabolism, skin pathology, mast cell counts, and inflammatory markers were assessed. Macrophage status was evaluated by F4/80 staining. KLF4 was downregulated in patients with T2DM with psoriasis. In mice with diabetic psoriasis-like dermatitis. KLF4 overexpression improved glucose/lipid metabolism and reduced skin erythema, scaling, thickening, psoriasis area severity index, and mast cell infiltration. KLF4 also decreased inflammation and modulated the TIMP3/ADAM17 pathway. These findings indicate that KLF4 ameliorates IMQ-induced inflammation via the TIMP3/ADAM17 pathway in diabetic psoriasis-like dermatitis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a prevalent respiratory disease characterized by airflow limitation, with genetic factors playing a crucial role in its pathogenesis. Effective-component compatibility of Bufei Yishen formula Ⅲ (ECC-BYF Ⅲ) has been shown to effectively ameliorate COPD symptoms; however, its underlying molecular mechanism remains elusive.To investigate the intervention mechanism of ECC-BYF Ⅲ on COPD and identify hub genes.Using the GSEA method, which retains all gene information, and exhibits robustness under small-sample conditions as well as high statistical power, COPD-related pathways were identified. Among the genes contained in those pathways, hub genes were identified by protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis, cytoHubba algorithm, etc. The reliability of the identified hub genes was validated by independent datasets, qRT-PCR in rats with COPD, HUVEC and MH-S cells, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations (MD), and surface plasmon resonance (SPR).Compared with COPD rats, ECC-BYF Ⅲ could ameliorate pathological changes and improve lung function. Then, utilizing the RNA-seq data from COPD rats, 106 disease related pathways were identified in the COPD group when contrasted with the control group (FDR < 0.05), of which 72 pathways were reversed after ECC-BYF Ⅲ intervention. Of the 3081 genes in those reversal pathways, 395 genes were differentially dysregulated in the COPD rat samples as opposed to the control samples (FDR < 0.05). Then, six genes (Gsk3b, Ctnnb1, Pten, Met, Pik3r3, and Erbb2) were identified by PPI network analysis, cytoHubba algorithm, and GeneCards database. Two hub genes (Ctnnb1 and Pik3r3) were well confirmed in independent datasets, the COPD rat model, HUVEC and MH-S cells, molecular docking, MD, and SPR.Two COPD hub genes were identified, and their regulation by ECC-BYF Ⅲ was demonstrated. Our results might provide a basis for the study of the mechanism of COPD, and its prevention and treatment guided by traditional Chinese medicine.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Cordycepin, a natural nucleoside analogue, exhibits anti-inflammatory and antitumor activity in multiple malignancies. However, the molecular basis of its action in pancreatic cancer and its potential role in chemosensitization remain incompletely defined. In this study, the effects of cordycepin on malignant phenotypes of pancreatic cancer cells were investigated in vitro. Network pharmacology was applied to identify candidate targets and construct a disease-drug-target-pathway network. Reverse virtual screening and molecular docking were used to predict key binding proteins, while RNA sequencing identified downstream pathways regulated by cordycepin. Target engagement was validated using cellular thermal shift assays, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulations. The underlying mechanistic pathways were further confirmed by functional experiments, and the therapeutic efficacy of cordycepin in combination with gemcitabine was evaluated. Our results demonstrated that cordycepin reduced the growth of pancreatic cancer cells and induced G2/M phase arrest and apoptosis. Network pharmacology identified 56 hub targets enriched in oncogenic pathways, including PI3K/AKT pathway. Reverse virtual screening revealed 111 candidate binding proteins, and intersection with hub targets highlighted five key effectors: CDK2, GSK3B, IL2, NOS3, and PARP1. Transcriptomic profiling showed marked disruption of cell cycle pathways, and CDK2 was validated as a direct molecular target of cordycepin. Cordycepin suppressed TNNI2 transcription by inhibiting the CDK2/E2F2 axis. Furthermore, cordycepin acted synergistically with gemcitabine to enhance antitumor responses and promote apoptosis in pancreatic cancer models. Collectively,cordycepin exerts antitumor activity in pancreatic cancer by targeting the CDK2/E2F2 axis to suppress malignant progression and by concurrently sensitizing cells to gemcitabine, thus holding promise as a therapeutic agent.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ulcerative colitis (UC), a common inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), is characterized by chronic mucosal inflammation. Our previous work established a link between cellular senescence and UC, suggesting that ameliorating cell senescence could be a therapeutic strategy for UC. In this study, we identified dehydrodiisoeugenol (DDIE) as an anti-senescence drug through screening in a DSS-induced colonic epithelial cell senescence model. In a DSS-induced acute mouse model of UC, DDIE effectively suppressed colonic senescence and significantly alleviated UC. Network pharmacology, colonic tissue transcriptomic analysis, and Western blot assays indicated that DDIE's therapeutic effects in UC are associated with the AKT and GSK3B pathways. Subsequent cellular blocking experiments utilizing the AKT activator insulin and the GSK3B inhibitor BIO confirmed that activating AKT or inhibiting GSK3B reversed the anti-senescence and anti-inflammatory effects of DDIE. Our findings demonstrate that DDIE treats UC by inhibiting AKT and activating GSK3B, thereby suppressing cellular senescence and restoring the intestinal barrier. This research offers a novel therapeutic strategy for UC from the perspective of anti-cellular senescence.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD) is a degenerative disease characterized by degradation of the extracellular matrix (ECM) in the nucleus pulposus, disruption of the fibrous ring structure, and imbalance of the inflammatory microenvironment. It is the main cause of chronic low back pain. Its pathogenesis is closely related to cellular aging and immune inflammation. Aging nucleus pulposus cells release pro-inflammatory factors such as IL-6 and TNF-α through the secretion of senescence associated secretory phenotype (SASP), recruiting M1 macrophages to infiltrate and forming a vicious cycle of "aging inflammation matrix destruction." This study systematically analyzed the molecular mechanism by which kaempferol improves IVDD through multi-target regulation by integrating bioinformatics analysis, animal experiments, and cell models. Bioinformatics screening revealed significant abnormal expression of genes such as AURKB, CCNB1, AXL, NEK6, and PTK2 in IVDD degenerated tissues. Downregulation of CCNB1 induced G2/M phase arrest by inhibiting CDK1 activity, while activation of GSK3B inhibited the Wnt signaling pathway by phosphorylating β-catenin, exacerbating ECM catabolism. Proteomics further confirms that the NOX4 mediated ROS-p38 MAPK pathway promotes cell apoptosis and SASP secretion. Immune infiltration analysis showed that M1 macrophages were significantly enriched in degenerated intervertebral discs, and their secreted IL-6 and TNF-α amplified the inflammatory cascade by activating the NF-κ B pathway. Animal experiments have shown that intervention with kaempferol can partially restore the intervertebral disc height index (DHI), downregulate the levels of IL‑1β and TNF‑α, upregulate the expression of CCNB1 and AURKB (which were downregulated in the IVDD model), thereby alleviating G2/M phase arrest and promoting cell cycle progression, inhibit AXL and PTK2, and reduce macrophage infiltration. Mechanistically, kaempferol inhibits NOX4 activity by clearing ROS, blocking the vicious cycle of oxidative stress‑inflammation; by regulating the NEK6/NF‑κB axis, the expression of MMP‑3 and ADAMTS‑4 is reduced, delaying ECM degradation; and improve the immune microenvironment by promoting macrophage polarization towards the M2 phenotype. In addition, kaempferol can reverse the metabolic imbalance mediated by GSK3B. This study reveals for the first time that kaempferol upregulates core gene networks such as AURKB and CCNB1 while suppressing AXL through the "anti‑inflammatory anti‑aging" dual pathway, thereby breaking the "aging‑immunity" crosstalk and restoring cell cycle homeostasis, providing a new strategy for natural compound intervention in IVDD treatment.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42521126 is a review article
The overlap between the geographic distribution of COVID-19 outbreaks and pollution levels suggested a strong correlation between exposure to atmospheric particulate matter and an increased risk of developing severe forms of disease. This correlation has been highlighted by several epidemiological studies, indicating the existence of shared molecular mechanisms. Emerging evidence has highlighted the important role of lipid rafts in facilitating viral entry into cells. Specifically, the receptor binding domain of the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein interacts with sialylated glycans of the monosialic ganglioside GM1 and GM2 that are particularly enriched in lipid rafts. This interaction has been proposed to facilitate ACE2 recognition by the spike protein and may contribute to early events involved in viral attachment and entry. Here, we reveal that A549 alveolar lung cells, after DEP exposure, exhibit a significant shift in ACE2 into lipid rafts, accompanied by an increase in the immature form of ADAM17, the sheddase responsible for ACE2 cleavage. Additionally, DEP exposure results in a significant increase in IL-6 release, while no changes were observed in IL-8 and sACE2 release. This treatment does not cause significant alterations in protein levels or membrane redistribution of COX-2 and HO-1, proteins involved in the inflammatory response and oxidative stress following exposure to air pollution, and linked to COVID-19 pathogenesis. Finally, lipidomic analysis by UHPLC-MS revealed that DEP exposure induces a significant increase in GM2 levels, and a concomitant decrease in GM1 and GM3 levels. Together, these results indicate that DEP exposure remodels lipid raft-associated molecular features in A549 cells, including ACE2 membrane redistribution, altered ganglioside composition, and increased IL-6 release. Although these changes may be relevant to cellular mechanisms associated with SARS-CoV-2 susceptibility, the present study does not directly assess viral binding, viral entry, or infection, and further functional studies are required.
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are membrane-bound particles that mediate intercellular communication and are being explored as carriers for antigen delivery in cancer immunotherapy. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the uptake of antigen-carrying EVs by dendritic cells (DCs) remain unclear. EV uptake is influenced by the recognition of EV surface components by receptors on recipient cells. Phospholipids, including phosphatidylserine (PS), are common structural components of EV membrane. We therefore focused on the TAM receptor tyrosine kinases Tyro3, Axl, and Mertk, which are expressed in antigen-presenting cells and engage PS-exposing membranes through the bridging ligands Growth arrest-specific 6 (Gas6) and Protein S (Pros1). Using the DC2.4 dendritic cell line as a model system, we investigated the involvement of TAM receptors in the uptake of small EVs (sEVs) and subsequent antigen presentation. We found that Tyro3 binding to sEVs was enhanced by Gas6 and Pros1, and that Tyro3 also associated with phosphatidylserine (PS) and phosphatidylglycerol (PG) through these bridging ligands. Among TAM receptors, only Tyro3 markedly enhanced sEV internalization in DC2.4 cells. Deletion analysis indicated that the immunoglobulin C2-type domain (IG2c domain) of Tyro3 is required for efficient sEV association and uptake. Moreover, Tyro3-mediated internalization enabled cross-presentation of sEV-delivered antigens and activation of CD8+ T cells. This function required a 46-amino acid intracellular region of Tyro3, which we designated the Tyro3 antigen presentation-related domain (TAPD); deletion of TAPD impaired cross-presentation of sEV-delivered antigens. Finally, we observed an increase in the frequency of Tyro3 ⁺ DCs in the spleens of tumor-bearing mice. These findings suggest that Tyro3 mediates sEV uptake and antigen cross-presentation in DCs and may represent a candidate molecular target for EV-based cancer immunotherapy.Copyright: © 2026 Koyama et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Liver metastasis is the leading cause of death in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), yet its molecular drivers remain poorly defined. Through integrated transcriptomic and proteomic screening of clinical specimens, we identify the membrane protein Cadherin-Related Family Member 2 (CDHR2) as a key orchestrator of hepatic colonization in PDAC. CDHR2 was upregulated in primary tumors versus adjacent tissues, further elevated in liver metastasis versus matched primary tumors, and markedly enriched in patient-derived plasma extracellular vesicles (EVs), peaking in patients with liver metastasis. Knockdown of CDHR2 in human PDAC cells suppressed proliferation, migration, and invasion, and in orthotopic models attenuated primary tumor growth, remodeled the tumor microenvironment, and reduced liver metastatic burden. Mechanistically, CDHR2 associated with PDK1 and promoted activation of the PDK1-AKT (Thr308) axis to drive proliferation. In turn, AKT activity correlated with the packaging of CDHR2 into EVs, coupling intrinsic signaling to EV cargo loading. Tumor-derived, CDHR2-enriched EVs formed a complex with Aminopeptidase N (ANPEP) on liver sinusoidal endothelial cells (LSECs), disrupting endothelial junctions and enhancing tumor-cell adhesion to enable transendothelial migration. Consistently, ANPEP inhibition or liver-specific knockdown curtailed hepatic colonization, whereas priming with CDHR2+ EVs accelerated it. Finally, systemic delivery of EV-encapsulated siCDHR2 suppressed established primary tumors and markedly reduced liver metastasis. Collectively, our findings define a tumor-intrinsic CDHR2-PDK1-AKT (Thr308) axis coupled to an exosomal CDHR2-ANPEP endothelial-priming program and provide proof-of-concept for exosomal siCDHR2 as a candidate strategy against PDAC liver metastasis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EndMT) drives the vascular remodeling in pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), yet the regulators that commit endothelial cells to this fate and whether they are pharmacologically addressable remain poorly defined. We report TK22, a small molecule that selectively erases the EndMT-competent endothelial state and reverses experimental pulmonary hypertension. TK22 was developed by structure-based design as an ATP-competitive CDK5 inhibitor (IC50 181 nM). Unbiased profiling across 394 kinases, however, revealed that TK22 inhibits the interphase cell-cycle kinases CDK2/3/4/6 node as well as a pro-mesenchymal node of AMPK-related kinases (NUAK1 and SIK1/2/3) together with PDGFRβ and MLK3, placing its activity at the intersection of proliferative and EndMT control rather than at a single node. Owing to this dual-node action, TK22 produced a strikingly clean cellular phenotype. In primary murine lung endothelial cells, TK22 reversed TGF-β1-induced EndMT across morphological, proteomic, and functional readouts, normalizing α-SMA, SM22, and Calponin, restoring angiogenic tube formation, abolishing acquired smooth-muscle-like contractility, and returning TGF-β1-driven hyperproliferation to baseline without suppressing normal endothelial growth. Single-cell RNA sequencing resolved the basis of this precision: TGF-β1 redirected a cycling Mki67+ endothelial subpopulation into an EndMT-committed state (Tnnt2, Ptgs2, Serpine1) and induced an associated metabolic-stress program (Egln3, Pfkfb3, Pdk1, Bnip3). Cross-validated PHATE and Monocle3 trajectory inference defined a directional proliferative-to-mesenchymal fate transition, and kernel density estimation revealed a stable EndMT cell-state attractor. TK22 selectively eliminated the EndMT-competent and metabolic-stress subpopulations while leaving the remaining endothelial landscape intact. This population-level precision of TK22 is consistent with its dual engagement of the anti-cell-cycle and anti-mesenchymal kinase nodes. In the Su5416/hypoxia rat PH model, TK22 normalized right ventricular systolic pressure, Fulton index, and cardiac function. Together, these findings reframe pharmacologic EndMT control: inhibition at the proliferative-to-mesenchymal fate branch point, through coordinated suppression of cell-cycle and mesenchymal kinases, achieves high selectivity for erasing a pathological endothelial fate state. These findings propose TK22 as a mechanistically precise agent for EndMT-driven vascular disease and establish single-cell trajectory analysis as an essential readout of cellular target engagement and cell-state precision.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the accumulation of amyloid-β (Aβ) plaques and chronic neuroinflammation, which together drive progressive neuronal loss and cognitive decline. In recent years, monoclonal antibodies targeting Aβ have demonstrated encouraging clinical benefits in Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, their therapeutic efficacy remains limited by insufficient and unsustained clearance of Aβ, as well as treatment-associated neuroinflammatory responses. These limitations highlight the need for alternative strategies that can achieve efficient Aβ elimination while maintaining immune homeostasis. To overcome these challenges, we developed a novel anti-inflammatory CAR-Microglia (CAR-Mic) incorporating a construct based on the TAM receptor family (TYRO3, AXL, and MERTK), which are key regulators of efferocytosis and anti-inflammatory responses. The resulting Aβ-targeted CAR-Mics showed enhanced Aβ engulfment and reduced proinflammatory cytokines release. Among the constructs tested, AXL-CAR demonstrated the most favorable overall performance and was therefore selected for the generation of human induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived CAR microglia-like cells (CAR-iMGLs). In an AD mouse model, AXL-CAR-iMGLs exhibited enhanced Aβ clearance without evidence of severe adverse effects. Collectively, these findings establish TAM receptor-based CAR-iMGLs as a promising cell therapy model for AD and potentially other neurodegenerative disorders characterized by chronic neuroinflammation and defective pathological protein clearance.Copyright © 2026 Ding, Hu, Xue, An, Cheng, Zhang, Lei and Zhang.
Acetyl tributyl citrate (ATBC) is a widely used plasticizer ubiquitously present in the environment. Long-term high-dose ATBC exposure has been associated with reproductive system damage, yet its toxic effects and underlying mechanisms in testicular seminoma remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the impact of ATBC on the prognosis of testicular seminoma.We integrated network toxicology analysis, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), bulk RNA-seq data, and clinical datasets to explore the prognostic role of ATBC-related genes in testicular seminoma. Bulk RNA-seq profiles, scRNA-seq data of testicular seminoma, and predicted ATBC target genes were obtained from public databases. Prognostic candidate genes were screened through differential expression analysis in seminoma datasets. Cox regression and machine learning algorithms were applied to the large TCGA-TGCT cohort to construct a robust prognostic risk model for patient stratification. Additional analyses included functional pathway enrichment, immune microenvironment assessment, single-cell gene expression profiling, key cell subtype identification, and clinical validation via immunohistochemistry and real-world clinical data.PDK1 and OARD1 were confirmed as ATBC-associated prognostic genes for testicular seminoma. The established risk model showed moderate discriminatory capacity, with area under the curve (AUC) values for 1-, 2-, and 3-year survival all exceeding 0.6. Enriched pathways were mainly related to immunity and metabolism, and the high-risk group exhibited more active cell-mediated immune responses. Five cell subtypes were identified by scRNA-seq, among which B cells were recognized as the key cell population; dynamic expression changes of prognostic genes were observed during the differentiation of these key cells. Furthermore, protein levels of PDK1 and OARD1 were significantly higher in normal testicular tissues than in testicular seminoma tissues.In conclusion, PDK1 and OARD1 are reliable prognostic biomarkers for testicular seminoma. This study provides an important theoretical basis for developing strategies to alleviate the adverse effects of ATBC on the male reproductive system.Copyright © 2026 Yi, Gong, Yang, Jia, Chen, Zhang, Lin, Tian, Wu, Cao, Liang and Yuan.
(1) Background: Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory rheumatic disease associated with immune dysregulation. The TYRO3, AXL, and MER (TAM) signaling pathway, comprising AXL receptor tyrosine kinase (AXL), MER tyrosine kinase (MERTK), growth arrest-specific 6 (GAS6), and Protein S, is a key regulator of immune homeostasis. This study investigated these receptor-ligand components in patients with AS. (2) Methods: A total of 45 patients with AS and 44 healthy controls were enrolled. Serum GAS6 and Protein S levels were measured by ELISA, and AXL and MERTK expression levels were analyzed by RT-qPCR. Clinical and inflammatory parameters were also evaluated. (3) Results: ESR, CRP, and IL-6 levels were significantly higher, whereas Protein S levels were significantly lower in patients with AS than in controls. No significant differences were observed in GAS6, AXL, or MERTK expression levels, although lower expression trends were detected in patients. Logistic regression analysis identified CRP, IL-6, Protein S, and AXL expression as variables independently associated with AS. ROC analysis demonstrated significant discriminatory performance for AXL expression. (4) Conclusions: Alterations in the TAM signaling pathway, particularly reduced Protein S levels and altered AXL expression, may contribute to immune dysregulation and persistent inflammation in AS.
Ostreid herpesvirus 1 (OsHV-1) is a major pathogen associated with summer mortality in bivalve mollusks, but the host-side determinants of susceptibility remain poorly characterized outside oysters. In this study, we compared the responses of Chinese (CS) and Korean (KS) populations of the ark clam Scapharca broughtonii to experimental OsHV-1 challenge. The results showed that OsHV-1 established a markedly strong infection in the CS population but not the KS population, as indicated by high viral DNA loads, severe tissue pathology, detection of viral particles by transmission electron microscopy, broad viral transcription, and substantially high mortality. To explore the molecular basis of this contrasting outcome, we further performed comparative transcriptomic and proteomic analyses. Transcriptomic analysis identified two membrane-associated genes, atrial natriuretic peptide receptor A (NPR-A) and tyrosine-protein kinase receptor (TYRO3-like), that were more highly expressed in the susceptible CS population, suggesting that early host-virus interaction may differ between populations as a result of differentially expressed membrane molecules. Proteomic analysis identified 94 differentially abundant proteins between CS and KS populations; notably, ferritin and superoxide dismutase (SOD) were highly expressed in the less susceptible KS population, leading to stronger basal antioxidant and stress-defense capacity. Taken together, these findings definitively confirmed the significant differential susceptibility to OsHV-1 infection between the two S. broughtonii geographic populations and revealed that this divergent phenotype might involve both population-biased expression of candidate membrane-associated factors and differences in defense-related protein abundance. This study provides candidate markers for future disease-resistance evaluation and breeding in ark clam and offers a basis for further investigation of population-level variation in bivalve-virus interactions.
Objective: Preeclampsia (PE) is a leading cause of maternal and perinatal morbidity; however, reliable first-trimester biomarkers are limited. Growth arrest-specific protein 6 (Gas6), a vitamin K-dependent ligand for the TAM receptor family (Tyro3, AXL, and MerTK), is crucial for trophoblast invasion and placental remodeling. This study evaluated whether first-trimester serum Gas6 levels differed between women with PE and controls and assessed the predictive utility across phenotypes. Methods: Participants were enrolled prospectively during routine first-trimester screening at 11 + 0 to 13 + 6 weeks, and cases and controls were selected using a nested case-control design after pregnancy outcomes were known. ROC-derived cut-off values for Gas6 were selected retrospectively using the Youden index and were considered exploratory. The PE group was divided into early (n = 15, <34 weeks) and late onset (n = 65, ≥34 weeks) subgroups. ELISA measured serum Gas6. Mann-Whitney U, Kruskal-Wallis, Spearman's correlation, ROC analysis, and multivariate logistic regression were applied. Results: Gas6 levels were significantly lower in PE than controls (15.73 vs. 38.08 ng/mL, p < 0.001); control reference median (38.08 ng/mL, IQR 27.62 to 49.14), decreasing progressively to late (20.07 ng/mL) and early onset PE (6.45 ng/mL; all p < 0.001). ROC analysis showed the highest exploratory discrimination for early onset preeclampsia (AUC = 0.959, 95% CI: 0.923-0.995; sensitivity 93.3%, specificity 84.1% at a retrospectively selected cut-off of ≤13.82 ng/mL), with more modest discrimination for overall PE (AUC = 0.762) and late onset PE (AUC = 0.708). Lower first-trimester Gas6 levels remained significantly associated with early onset PE after adjustment for maternal age and BMI (OR = 0.555, 95% CI: 0.412-0.748, p < 0.001). Conclusions: Serum Gas6 levels in the first trimester are lower in PE, particularly in cases of early onset disease, highlighting its potential as a candidate biomarker that requires further prospective and external validation before any screening application can be considered.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511720 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42509816 is a review article
Following the publication of the above article, a concerned reader drew to the Editor's attention that western blot data featured in Fig. 5D were apparently the same as those featured in a different research article by the same group in the journal American Journal of Translational Research. In addition, various of the western blot data featured in Figs. 5, 6 and 7, and the cell migration and invasion assay data in Fig. 2C and D, were strikingly similar to data that were featured in other papers written by different authors at different research institutes, some of which have since been retracted, including a pair published in 2014/2015 in the journal PLoS One. Given the fact that the contentious data mentioned above had been included in articles published by other research groups in different journals before this paper was received at Oncology Reports, the Editor has decided that this paper should be retracted from the Journal. The authors were asked for an explanation to account for these concerns, but the Editorial Office did not receive a reply. The Editor apologizes to the readership for any inconvenience caused. [Oncology Reports 37: 2185‑2192, 2017; DOI: 10.3892/or.2017.5458].
Cell survival requires tight coordination between growth-promoting metabolism and cellular quality-control pathways, yet how these processes are integrated remains unclear. Here we identify the conserved glycolytic enzyme PGAM1 as a metabolic-autophagy checkpoint that links glycolysis to autophagy initiation independently of its catalytic activity. Using complementary yeast and mammalian systems we show that PGAM1 functions as a molecular scaffold that recruits phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase complex I to the phagophore assembly site, thereby licensing autophagosome biogenesis. This autophagy-regulatory function is genetically essential, evolutionarily conserved and functionally separable from glycolysis. It is regulated by Atg1/ULK1-mediated phosphorylation that enhances Atg14 binding under starvation. Functionally, PGAM1 coordinates anabolic growth and stress-induced survival to maintain cellular homeostasis. In cancer, PGAM1 upregulation enhances both glycolytic flux and autophagy capacity. Disruption of either function markedly impairs tumour growth, establishing PGAM1 as a homeostatic checkpoint that is hijacked in cancer to drive both proliferation and stress tolerance.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Acute lung injury (ALI) is characterized by dysregulated inflammation and tissue damage. Autophagy-related gene 14 (ATG14) is a key autophagy regulator, but its role in ALI remains incompletely understood.LPS-induced ALI was investigated in mice and lung epithelial cells. Autophagy, ATG14 acetylation, NF-κB pathway activation, and cytokine production were evaluated by histology, western blotting, immunoprecipitation, ELISA, electron microscopy, mass spectrometry, and molecular docking. ATG14 knockdown/overexpression and SIRT1 overexpression were used to explore mechanisms.LPS induced excessive autophagy, increased ATG14 expression and acetylation in lung tissue, reduced epithelial ATG14 levels through TLR4-dependent proteasomal degradation in vitro, reduced SIRT1 levels, and enhanced NF-κB pathway activity. SIRT1 interacted with ATG14 and suppressed its acetylation. Peptide docking supported the structural feasibility of SIRT1 recognition of ATG14 regions containing K78 and K178, with the K178-containing region showing a more compatible orientation near the SIRT1 catalytic surface. ATG14 inhibition or SIRT1 restoration reduced NF-κB pathway activity, cytokine production, and lung inflammation in vitro and in vivo.The ATG14-SIRT1 axis modulates autophagy-inflammation crosstalk in ALI and may represent a potential therapeutic target.
We aimed to explore the critical role of PIK3R3 in pan-cancer, which to facilitate the development of more targeted prognostic markers and therapeutic strategies for these malignancies.In our study, pan-cancer transcriptome datasets were retrieved from Xena database. Subsequently, utilizing the Wilcoxon test, univariate Cox regression analysis as well as Kaplan-Meier (K-M) survival analysis to identify cancer types with high relevance to PIK3R3. Clinical metadata were stratified for correlation analysis, followed by differential expression gene (DEG) identification, overrepresentation analysis, and various functional analysis methods.Lower-grade glioma (LGG), kidney renal clear cell carcinoma (KIRC), liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC), lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD), and uterine corpus endometrial carcinoma (UCEC) exhibited strong associations with PIK3R3. PIK3R3 was closely linked to tumor grade stratification in LGG and UCEC and likely regulated these cancers via pathways such as lipid metabolism. Notably, UCEC showed high-level PIK3R3 mutations, mainly involving mutation and amplification. Compounds including Tetrachlorodibenzodioxin (TCDD), 1-Methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+), Estradiol, and Valproic Acid were predicted to target PIK3R3.Our results provide novel insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying PIK3R3-associated tumorigenesis and progression, which may contribute to the development of more targeted prognosis markers and therapeutic strategies for these malignancies.© 2026 the author(s), published by De Gruyter, Berlin/Boston.
To investigate novel combination strategies for TP53-mutated acute myeloid leukemia (AML), focusing on the potential synergy between PI3Kγ inhibition and Azacitidine, and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms.We detected the expression of PI3Kγ (PIK3CG/PIK3R5) in TP53 mutant and wildtype AML cell lines using the CCLE database, RT-qPCR, and western blot. We evaluated the influence of Azacitidine (AZA) and PI3Kγ inhibitor (Eganelisib) in AML cells, conducted in vivo combination therapy experiments, and identified synergistic targets through RNA sequencing and siRNA technology.TP53-mutated AML showed hypermethylation of PI3Kγ promoters and reduced PI3Kγ expression. AZA treatment selectively activated the PI3Kγ signaling in TP53-mutated cells. Eganelisib combined with AZA demonstrated potent synergy, suppressing proliferation and inducing apoptosis in TP53-mutated AML (ZIP synergy score > 10). This combination extended survival in xenograft models (33.0 vs. 18.0 days, p < 0.01). RNA-seq identified serglycin (SRGN) as a candidate mediator potentially linking AZA-induced transcriptional reprogramming to ROS-mediated cell death. SRGN knockdown elevated ROS levels and sensitized cells to AZA. The combinatorial treatment significantly increased ROS levels compared to monotherapy.We provide the first preclinical evidence that PI3Kγ inhibition sensitizes TP53-mutated AML to AZA through a mechanism potentially involving the SRGN-ROS axis, offering a translatable combinatorial strategy for patients with this aggressive leukemia subtype.© 2026. The Author(s).
This paper introduces an approach for inferring the gene regulatory networks in vortioxetine-induced glioblastoma cells to investigate vortioxetine's systemic effects. The approach uses an ordinary differential equation (ODE)-based inverse problem to evaluate the drug-induced gene interactions within the GLIOMA and ERBB pathways, which are deeply intertwined in cancers, by using time-series datasets. Time-series datasets were generated in triplicate at 0, 3, 6, 9, 12, and 24 h. The results of the ERBB pathway confirmed that PIK3R5 was commonly activated, while JUN, as a proto-oncogene in glioblastoma, was inhibited by genes across all three datasets. In particular, PIK3R5 was commonly activated by PAK6 in all three datasets. The results of the GLIOMA pathway confirmed that CALML6 was commonly activated, while CDK4 and CCND1, which are mostly overexpressed in human cancers, were inhibited across all three datasets. Additionally, an analysis of the independent datasets generated at 6 and 22 h after the vortioxetine injection identified the most distinct variable genes between the two time points: CRK (1.96) and JUN (-3.02) for the ERBB signaling pathway, and BRAF (1.30) and MAP2K2 (-1.92) for the GLIOMA pathway. We conclude that vortioxetine, an antidepressant, decreases JUN, a proto-oncogene involved in the ERBB signaling pathway, and CCND1, another proto-oncogene involved in the GLIOMA pathway, over time in glioblastoma cells.
Structural variants (SVs) are a type of mutations in animal genomes that have shown their role in the process of domestication. An insertion/ deletion of 579 bp SV in intron 21 of PIK3C3 gene in Xiang pigs was detected by genome resequencing method in our previous study. Phosphoinositide-3-kinase, class III (PIK3C3), is a critical regulator of autophagy, essential for cellular homeostasis, pathogen clearance, and immune modulation. The aim of this study was to investigate the polymorphism of intron 21 of the PIK3C3 gene of Xiang pigs and its effect on PIK3C3 expression. The polymorphism of SV PIK3C3-579 was determined by PCR. Three genotypes of this SV were detected in different breeds with uneven distribution among them. Two Short interspersed elements (SINEs) located in the SV region, opposite in the direction of PIK3C3 gene. RT-qPCR revealed that the SINE insertion significantly decreased PIK3C3 expression in the spleen of Xiang pigs and was associated with the production of the PIK3C3-circRNA. The fluorescent reporter assays confirmed that the SINE insertion significantly decreased the activity of the EGFP promoter. Additionally, The SINE deletion was associated with elevated levels of lymphocyte, monocyte, neutrophil, IFN-γ and IL-2. These data suggested that the SINE insertion could regulate the expression of PIK3C3 gene and the biogenesis of circular RNA, thereby modulating the immune response of Xiang pigs, which provides insights into the functional impact of structural variants on immune traits in this breed.© 2026. The Author(s).
Xanthine oxidase (XO) represents a key therapeutic target for the treatment of hyperuricemia. Although dietary anthocyanins are known to ameliorate hyperuricemia, their structure-activity relationship (SAR) concerning XO inhibition has not been fully elucidated. This study systematically evaluated the inhibitory effects of anthocyanin extracts derived from various dietary sources-including fruits, vegetables, cereals, and edible flowers-on XO activity, uric acid (UA) levels, and hyperuricemia-associated biomarkers. Using inhibition kinetics, spectroscopic techniques, and molecular simulations, we confirmed the direct binding of anthocyanins to XO and identified delphinidin-3-O-sambubioside (D3S) as the most potent inhibitor. In vivo experiments showed that anthocyanin extract from kale significantly suppressed XO activity and improved renal function in hyperuricemic mice. Transcriptomic and qPCR analyses further revealed that anthocyanins modulate the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, specifically through downregulation of PIK3R5. These findings highlight the potential of specific anthocyanin structures, particularly D3S, as effective natural XO inhibitors for the management of hyperuricemia.
CDK4/6 inhibitors induce G1/S cell-cycle arrest in bladder cancer; however, adaptive resistance limits their therapeutic efficacy. The role of the m6A reader IGF2BP3 in regulating sensitivity to CDK4/6 inhibition remains largely unknown.Transcriptomic profiling was performed in palbociclib-treated bladder cancer cell lines (T24, RT112, and UMUC-3) to identify m6A regulators associated with drug response. The expression and clinical significance of IGF2BP3 were evaluated using The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) data and an independent clinical cohort. Gain- and loss-of-function assays were conducted to investigate the effects of IGF2BP3 on cell proliferation and cell-cycle progression. Mechanistic studies, including RNA-binding, mRNA stability, ubiquitination, and in vivo tumorigenesis assays, were performed to elucidate the underlying regulatory network.IGF2BP3 was identified as the only m6A regulator differentially expressed following palbociclib treatment. IGF2BP3 expression was significantly elevated in bladder cancer tissues compared with normal tissues and was associated with poor prognosis and Ki67 positivity. Functionally, IGF2BP3 overexpression (OE) promoted G1/S transition, increased MYC and downstream cell-cycle regulators, and partially rescued palbociclib-induced cell-cycle arrest, whereas IGF2BP3 knockdown (KD) suppressed cell proliferation in an MYC-dependent manner. Mechanistically, IGF2BP3 bound to MYC mRNA in an m6A-dependent manner and enhanced its stability. Furthermore, MKRN2 was identified as an E3 ubiquitin ligase that directly interacted with IGF2BP3, promoted its ubiquitination, and facilitated its proteasomal degradation. In vivo, MKRN2 co-overexpression attenuated IGF2BP3-driven tumor growth and synergized with palbociclib to maximally suppress tumor volume, reduce MYC and Ki67 expression, and induce apoptosis.These findings establish the MKRN2-IGF2BP3-MYC axis as a critical regulator of CDK4/6 inhibitor sensitivity in bladder cancer. Targeting IGF2BP3 or enhancing MKRN2 activity may represent a promising strategy to overcome adaptive resistance and improve the therapeutic efficacy of CDK4/6 inhibitors.
Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a leading cause of irreversible blindness in working-age populations and frequently cooccurs with multiple ocular disorders. As their shared genetic basis remains poorly understood, this study aimed to elucidate the shared genetic architecture underlying RP and relevant ocular comorbidities.Using large-scale genome-wide association data, we systematically investigated pleiotropy, genetic correlation, cell-type specificity, and genetically predicted causality between RP and major ophthalmic comorbidities.We observed significant genetic correlations and pleiotropic enrichment between RP and retinal detachments and breaks (RDAB), retinal vascular occlusion (RVO), and age-related macular degeneration (AMD), with notable SNP-level overlap between RP and primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). RP and RDAB, as well as AMD, shared genetic associations at chr1:196176201-197311241 and chr10:123900764-125869042. Totally, 41, 25, 114, and 397 pleiotropic loci were identified between RP and RDAB, RVO, POAG, and AMD, implicating pathways related to cell division, metabolic regulation, immune activation, and complement activation. A novel causal variant (rs36212731) and four pleiotropic genes (ARMS2, HTRA1, CFH, PLEKHA1) were discovered between RP and RDAB. Ten causal variants and 24 pleiotropic genes were identified between RP and AMD. MR analyses demonstrated a genetically causal effect of RP on an increased risk of RDAB and RVO (P˂0.05), and AMD was associated with an increased risk of RP. Cell-type enrichment analyses highlighted vascular smooth muscle cells and retinal pigment epithelium as key mediators of shared susceptibility between RP and RDAB, and POAG.This study reveals robust genetic and potential causal links between RP and RDAB, RVO, as well as AMD, along with complex pleiotropic associations with glaucoma. These findings provide novel genetic insights into the shared pathogenic mechanisms and generate hypotheses for future biological, translational, and clinical research.
Stress granules (SGs) are transient cytoplasmic biomolecular condensates that play a role in the cellular response to proteotoxic stress. It has been previously shown that ubiquitination regulates SG dynamics; however, the specific mechanisms by which ubiquitin affects SGs are not fully understood. Here, using proximity proteomics, we discover that the recruitment of several E3 ubiquitin ligases, VCP cofactors and HSP70 to SGs is dependent on the activity of the E1 ubiquitin ligase UBA1. The RNA-binding E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase Makorin 2 (MKRN2) is strongly depleted from SGs in the absence of UBA1 function. MKRN2 promotes both the proper formation of SGs and their disassembly following stress recovery, by preventing the accumulation of misfolding-prone defective ribosomal products (DRiPs) within SGs. Therefore, MKRN2 is a novel regulator of SGs that mediates the maintenance of granulostasis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Glioblastoma (GBM) exhibits pronounced intratumoral heterogeneity, yet the interactions between macrophages and astrocyte-like (AC-like) cells remain incompletely understood.We analyzed single-cell RNA sequencing data from 10 GBM patients, performing clustering with Seurat and Harmony, copy number variation to distinguish malignant cells, and trajectory inference to map lineage relationships. CellChat was applied to predict intercellular signaling, while CellTrek reconstructed spatial co-localization. Prognostic significance of identified key subpopulations was evaluated using Cox regression analysis.Thirteen cell subtypes were identified in GBM, including four macrophage clusters (e.g., Macro_CCL3, Macro_C1QL1) and eight AC-like clusters (e.g., AClike_RGCC, AClike_SLC7A5). Macro_C1QL1 and AClike_SLC7A5 were enriched in malignant regions and correlated with poor prognosis. Intercellular communication analysis indicated that Macro_C1QL1 and AClike_SLC7A5 cells engage in strengthened APP-CD74 signaling, emphasizing the involvement of tumor-specific CypA and APP pathways. Spatial mapping confirmed their co-localization in tumor-dense areas, supporting niche-specific interactions.This study provides an integrated single-cell and spatial characterization of macrophage and AC-like cell crosstalk in GBM, identifying key signaling networks and potential therapeutic targets.© 2026. The Author(s).
Esophageal cancer (EC) remains an extremely lethal cancer with few prognostic biomarkers and specific therapies. Although autophagy is increasingly recognized as a key force behind tumor adaptation and resistance to therapy, its systematic role at the EC progression level for prognostics, as well as for drug target prediction, remains unclear. Here, we attempted to build a systems-wide map linking autophagy- and signaling-related genes and transcriptional dysregulation, patient survival, and druggability in EC. Hub genes were found using an integrative bioinformatics pipeline based on protein-protein interaction networks and further explored using enrichment, expression, survival, and molecular docking analyses. Functional enrichment highlighted autophagy, mitophagy, ferroptosis, and immune signaling as central processes, converging with stress- and metabolism-associated pathways. Expression profile of TCGA-ESCA data demonstrated substantial overexpression of autophagy initiators and elongation factors (ATG3, ATG5, ATG7, ATG12, ATG13), upstream regulators (AMBRA1, UVRAG), and stress/metabolic mediators (TP53, MYD88, GAPDH). Kaplan-Meier analysis indicated three genes, including ATG4A, GABARAPL2, and GAPDH, that exhibited significant expression levels correlating with less survival and emphasizing their prognostic capacities. Screening for drugs also revealed AKT1, TP53, and PIK3R4 as druggable hubs, and many drugs (e.g., Everolimus, Dabrafenib, Trabectedin) showing high-affinity interactions. These findings collectively demonstrate that the progression of EC is supported by a coordinated program that integrates autophagy and metabolic reprogramming with stress and immunological signaling. The study discovers new prognostic markers (ATG4A, GABARAPL2, GAPDH) and druggable targets, which could lead to better risk stratification and smarter drug repurposing. While restricted to in silico analyses, the integrative approach provides a basis for subsequent laboratory confirmation and translational development.© 2026. The Author(s).
Delayed cerebral ischaemia (DCI) is a major determinant of poor clinical outcome after aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (aSAH), but its underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. We aimed to perform a genome-wide association study (GWAS) in aSAH patients with and without DCI. We conducted a multicentre study of European ancestry within the International Stroke Genetics Consortium with two stages: Stage 1 (n = 1,085; four centres) and Stage 2 (n = 801; one centre). A GWAS meta-analysis was performed across both stages. We then examined whether variants associated with DCI were linked to differences in gene expression (expression quantitative trait loci, eQTLs) or DNA methylation (methylation quantitative trait loci, mQTLs) and validated the methylation findings in an aSAH cohort with available DNA methylation data (n = 344). We performed complementary postGWAS analysis in order to promote biological interpretation of the genome-wide findings, including the genetic overlap with ischaemic stroke and intracranial aneurysm (ruptured and unruptured) using publicly available published GWAS summary statistics. Among 1,879 patients with DCI data, the prevalence of DCI was 22.8% (428/1,879). In the meta-analysis across both stages, we identified one genome-wide significant variant, rs7636350 (Chr3:130328911:T:C), associated with an increased risk of DCI (additive OR 1.75 [95% CI 1.43-2.13], P=4.47×10⁻⁸). This variant mapped near the COL6A6 and PIK3R4 genes. Functional annotation revealed one significant eQTL for PIK3R4 and one mQTL for cg23181900, located within COL6A6. Hypermethylation at cg23181900 was associated with DCI in a cohort with DNA methylation data (logFC=0.016, 95% CI 0.002-0.032; P=0.0317). Genetic correlation analyses showed a marginal correlation with ischaemic stroke due to large artery atherosclerosis (r=0.172; P=0.0508) and a higher correlation with intracranial aneurysm (r=0.341; P=0.002). We identified a genome-wide significant locus associated with DCI after aSAH, implicating COL6A6 and PIK3R4. We additionally identified an mQTL at cg23181900, suggesting a regulatory link at this locus. These findings enhance our understanding of DCI pathophysiology and support further studies to clarify causality and determine whether these pathways may inform future therapeutic strategies.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain.
Metabolic reprogramming toward aerobic glycolysis, a phenomenon analogous to the Warburg effect, is increasingly recognized as a hallmark of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). However, how glycolytic activation orchestrates pulmonary vascular remodeling and endothelial-mesenchymal transition (EndMT) remains poorly understood. To delineate the molecular determinants of glycolytic remodeling, we integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic datasets from hypoxia-induced (SuHx) PAH rat models. A multi-algorithm machine-learning pipeline combining LASSO, BORUTA, and SVM-RFE was employed to identify glycolysis-related hub genes. Diagnostic performance was validated in independent rat and human datasets, followed by single-cell communication and pseudotime trajectory analyses to infer cellular dynamics. Experimental verification was performed using SuHx/MCT rat models and hypoxia-treated HUVECs. Five glycolysis-related biomarkers-Cxcr4, Pfkfb3, Rgcc, MGC105649, and Mt2A-were identified, exhibiting consistent differential expression across datasets. PFKFB3 and MT2A emerged as core regulators that link glycolytic activation with endothelial-fibroblast crosstalk and EndMT. Single-cell and pseudotime analyses revealed that endothelial cells progressively transition toward mesenchymal-like phenotypes under hypoxia, accompanied by enhanced glycolytic signaling. Functional validation confirmed increased expression of PFKFB3 and MT2A in vivo and demonstrated that hypoxia and lactate synergistically promote endothelial proliferation in vitro. This integrative framework combining multi-omics and machine learning uncovers a glycolysis-driven EndMT axis that underlies pulmonary vascular remodeling. The identified biomarkers provide mechanistic insight into metabolic-structural coupling in PAH and highlight PFKFB3 and MT2A as promising molecular targets for future glycolysis-based therapeutic interventions.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy (NACI) has shown promising results in treating esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC), yet the mechanisms driving its efficacy remain poorly defined, limiting further optimization of this regimen.To investigate the dynamics of the tumor microenvironment (TME), we integrated single-cell RNA sequencing, immunorepertoire profiling, and spatial transcriptomics across 18 samples from nine patients with ESCC undergoing NACI. Computational workflows encompassed integrated clustering, gene set enrichment, T cell receptor repertoire characterization, copy number variation estimation, and cell-cell communication inference. Spatial mapping was performed using cytoSPACE. Key findings were validated via orthogonal spatial transcriptomics, multiplex immunohistochemistry, and in vivo preclinical models.We identified distinct post-treatment accumulation of ACKR1+ endothelial cells (ECs) and CFD+ cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) at tumor boundaries, potentially correlating with enhanced CD8+ T cell infiltration and improved clinical outcomes. Conversely, treatment-resistant tumors exhibited VEGFA-driven upregulation in malignant cells, promoting RGCC+ ECs with elevated VEGFR2 expression. These RGCC+ ECs synergized with MMP11+ CAFs to form a collagen-rich tumor niche that fostered malignancy and immunosuppression. Importantly, targeting VEGFR2 not only improved therapeutic response but also reversed immune suppression.This study reveals that stromal cells such as CAFs and ECs within the TME collaboratively determine NACI efficacy in ESCC. These findings could offer novel theoretical insights and actionable strategies for enhancing treatment efficacy in ESCC.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Splicing disruption has been implicated in a range of heritable phenotypes, including numerous psychiatric and neurological disorders. Recent studies have identified thousands of common genetic variants impacting splicing in brain and other tissues, but have focused largely on single nucleotide polymorphisms or short indels. Despite growing evidence that genetic variation at short tandem repeats (STRs) influences splicing, large-scale studies of STR-mediated splicing in brain have been limited by low sample sizes of available RNA-seq data or exclusion of certain classes of STRs, such as homopolymers which account for around half of all STRs. In this study, we leveraged deep RNA-seq and SNP array data from 336 human dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) samples collected by the Human Brain Collection Core (HBCC). We imputed 445,720 STRs into available genotype data and identified 51,343 unique STRs for which copy number is significantly associated with one or multiple alternative splicing events of nearby genes (spliceSTRs). We prioritized and characterized candidate causal spliceSTRs using three orthogonal fine-mapping strategies which identified 1,313 high-confidence fine-mapped spliceSTRs. Our analyses revealed strong associations between copy number of certain repeat units and binding of specific RNA-binding proteins (RBPs), including a previously known relationship between HNRNPL and AC repeat length, suggesting that the functional impact of some spliceSTRs may be mediated through their binding affinity for RBPs. Finally, co-localization analyses using summary statistics from genome-wide association studies (GWAS) for 6 brain-related disorders identified multiple signals that may be driven by spliceSTRs, including a previously identified GT n repeat that is a spliceSTR for PLEKHA1 associated with Alzheimer's disease as well as a newly identified AGG n spliceSTR in SEPTIN3 co-localized with schizophrenia. Together, our findings highlight the role of STRs in regulating alternative splicing in the human brain, suggest a general relationship between STR polymorphism and RBP-mediated splicing events, and support the hypothesis that splicing variation mediated by STRs plays a role in risk for brain-related disorders.
This study investigated molecular drivers of AD-associated peripheral immune dysregulation to identify pathogenic genes and therapeutic targets for precision diagnosis and intervention.A large-scale GWAS meta-analysis (n = 894,710) was performed, followed by two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) using multi-tissue cis-eQTL data to identify putative causal genes. Immune response differential genes (IRDGs) were defined from AD peripheral blood transcriptomes and the MSigDB database. A three-step summary-data-based MR framework integrating blood cis-eQTLs and cis-mQTLs was applied to prioritize causal genes and epigenetic regulatory elements. Findings were validated through colocalization analysis, PBMC scRNA-seq and blood-tissue TWAS. Multi-dimensional clinical validation was performed in the ADNI cohort encompassing gene expression, CSF biomarkers, cognitive measures, immune cell profiles, survival analysis, and plasma proteomics, with cross-cohort transcriptomic replication in AddNeuroMed.Two-sample MR identified eight putative AD pathogenic genes. The three-step SMR and colocalization analysis prioritized five candidate causal genes, whose differential expression in immunocytes was confirmed by scRNA-seq and independently replicated. In the ADNI cohort, PTK2B expression was elevated in AD (ANOVA P = 0.0023), inversely correlated with MMSE (r = -0.164, P = 0.017), and predictive of MCI-to-AD conversion (Cox HR = 1.741, P = 0.050), with independent replication in AddNeuroMed (FDR P = 3.56 × 10-4). PLEKHA1 and PTK2B expression were strongly associated with peripheral neutrophil and lymphocyte proportions (P < 10-7), and PLEKHA1 correlated with CSF total tau (partial r = 0.102, P = 0.036). The prioritized probe cg19863426 at the PLEKHA1 promoter showed progressive hypermethylation across the CN-MCI-AD continuum (F = 3.45, P = 0.032) and was inversely correlated with PLEKHA1 mRNA (r = -0.33, P = 2.68 × 10-¹²).Integrating GWAS, multi-omics Mendelian randomization, single-cell transcriptomics, transcriptome-wide association study, and clinical cohort validation, this study identified peripheral immune causal genes for AD whose blood transcriptomic and epigenetic signatures track with CSF pathology, cognitive decline, and disease progression, supporting their translational potential for early diagnosis and therapeutic development.Copyright © 2026 Lv, Kuang, Wang, Zhang, Liu, Wang, Yang, Ni, Sun and Sun.
Zhigancao Decoction (ZGCT), also known as Fumai Decoction, is a classical traditional Chinese medicine formula recorded in Shanghan Lun and has long been used for the treatment of "palpitations" and "irregular pulse," corresponding to arrhythmias in modern medicine. Although ZGCT has shown beneficial effects against cardiac arrhythmias, its absorbed bioactive constituents and the underlying mechanisms involved in ischemic heart failure (IHF)-related ventricular arrhythmias (VAs) remain unclear.This study aimed to characterize the chemical profile of ZGCT and identify its circulating and cardiac constituents using ultra-performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UPLC-Q-TOF-MS), to identify key pathways through transcriptomic analysis, and evaluate the effects of ZGCT on IHF-related VAs in rats while exploring the potential involvement of myocardial fibrosis and TGF-β/Smad signaling.UPLC-Q-TOF-MS was employed to characterize the chemical constituents of ZGCT extract and to identify its absorbed components in rat serum and myocardial tissue after administration, thereby defining its in vivo bioactive basis. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq)-based transcriptomic profiling was then performed on myocardial tissues from the control, model, and ZGCT-treated groups to identify differentially expressed genes, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses to screen candidate signaling pathways underlying ZGCT activity. In addition, a rat model of IHF was established by permanent ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery. Rats were randomly assigned to the control, model, low-, medium-, and high-dose ZGCT, metoprolol, SB-431542(a selective TGF-β receptor type I inhibitor), and SB-431542 plus ZGCT groups. Cardiac function was evaluated by echocardiography; ventricular arrhythmia susceptibility, conduction velocity, and electrical conduction dispersion were assessed by burst pacing and multichannel electrical mapping; infarct size and myocardial fibrosis were determined by 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC), hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), and Masson's trichrome staining; and the expression of TGF-β1, phosphorylated Smad3 (p-Smad3), Smad7, and matrix metalloproteinase 2 (MMP2) was measured by Western blotting and RT-qPCR.UPLC-Q-TOF-MS identified 113 constituents in the ZGCT extract in vitro, of which 80 were detected in serum and 53 were distributed in myocardial tissue after administration. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that ZGCT predominantly regulated the extracellular matrix (ECM)-receptor interaction and TGF-β signaling pathways, with the TGF-β pathway emerging as a putative key target. In IHF rats, ZGCT significantly improved cardiac function and reduced both the incidence and duration of ventricular arrhythmias. Multichannel electrical mapping further demonstrated that ZGCT reversed IHF-induced slowing of conduction velocity and increased conduction dispersion. Mechanistically, ZGCT downregulated the expression of TGF-β1, p-Smad3, and MMP2, while upregulating Smad7. SB-431542 elicited anti-fibrotic and pathway-related molecular changes comparable to those of ZGCT, further supporting a role for TGF-β/Smad signaling in the anti-fibrotic effects of ZGCT.ZGCT reduced ventricular arrhythmia susceptibility and improved conduction abnormalities in IHF rats in association with attenuation of myocardial fibrosis and modulation of transforming growth factor-β/Smad-related signaling. However, these findings were obtained from a single batch of ZGCT, and further multi-batch validation is required to confirm its chemical consistency and pharmacological reproducibility.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Classic Hodgkin lymphoma (CHL) is a highly curable disease. However, a subset of patients develops relapsed/refractory disease, underscoring the need for predictors of treatment response. Although immune-checkpoint inhibitors have improved outcomes, many patients still experience suboptimal responses. A deeper understanding of the CHL transcriptomic landscape may improve patient stratification and guide treatment approaches. Targeted mRNA-NGS was performed on formalin-fixed paraffine-embedded CHL-tissue using the HTG EdgeSeq Precision Immune-Oncology Panel (1,392 genes) in treatment-naive and post-chemotherapy relapsed treated with nivolumab-based protocols. Differential gene expression and pathway enrichment analyses were conducted to characterize tumor-intrinsic, and microenvironmental features associated with disease biology and treatment response. Across all CHL samples (n = 25) we observed overexpression of immune-checkpoint and immunoregulatory genes (CD274, CTLA-4, IL6, IL13), and markers of macrophage-rich/matrix-remodeling microenvironment (CD163, MMP2, TIMP1), alongside loss of B-cell identity and tumor suppression programs. Pathways analysis revealed activation of IL6/JAK/STAT3, TNF-α/NF-κB, KRAS-UP, and Inflammatory response, with reduced proliferative and metabolic activity. Immunotherapy non-responders, both in the overall (n = 5; 20%), and the treatment-naïve CHL (n = 2; 12%) displayed a proliferative, cytokine-activated, and immunologically cold phenotype. This includes shared overexpression of FADD, NFKB1, and TGFB1 and downregulation of SMAD7, together with activation of E2F, G2M, MYC, and PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathways and negative enrichment of TNF-α/NF-κB, IL6/JAK/STAT3, and Inflammatory response. Post-chemotherapy relapsed (n = 8) exhibited adaptative immunoregulatory and stress response signatures (IL15, TNFSF18, MAPK8, FUT4), along with reduced immune activation and loss of tumor-suppressor signaling. This study highlights the biological complexity and transcriptional diversity underlying CHL and its tumor microenvironment. Immunotherapy non-responders exhibited an "oncogene-driven" transcriptional profile independent of previous treatment status, whereas responders showed an "inflammatory immune-scape" phenotype, offering insight into mechanisms of resistance. Despite the limited sample size, these findings provide a foundation for larger precision-focused studies aimed at improving outcomes in CHL.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
To optimize the extraction-purification process of Dendrobium officinale polysaccharides (DOPs) and characterize the fine structures of two homogeneous fractions (DOP-1, DOP-2), as well as to evaluate their anti-photoaging activity on HFF cells.An integrated process including petroleum ether defatting, cellulase hydrolysis, water extraction-ethanol precipitation, trypsin-Sevag deproteinization, activated carbon decolorization, and dialysis was used. DOP-1 and DOP-2 were separated by DEAE-52 and Sephadex G-100 chromatography. Their structures were analyzed by FT-IR, methylation-GC/MS, NMR, and SEM. Anti-photoaging effects were assessed via CCK-8, SA-β-Gal staining, and qPCR of TGF-β/Smad pathway genes.The optimized process increased crude polysaccharide yield from 30.34% to 35.03% and polysaccharide content from 31.23% to 49.34%. DOP-1 (Mn 989 Da, PDI 1.15) was a linear oligosaccharide composed of →4)-β-D-Manp (72.32%) and →4)-β-D-Glcp (23.78%) in an alternating pattern. DOP-2 (Mn 2970 Da, PDI 1.67) was a branched polysaccharide with a backbone of →6)-α-D-Glcp (58.06%) and branches at →2,6)-Manp and →4,6)-Glcp. Both DOP-1 and DOP-2 (62.5 μg/mL) protected HFF cells from UVA-induced photoaging, upregulated TGF-β1, Smad3, Smad4, and Collagen I, and downregulated Smad7 and MMP-1, with DOP-2 showing dose-dependent effects.The optimized process enables efficient preparation of DOPs. DOP-1 and DOP-2 possess distinct structural features and exert anti-photoaging effects via regulation of the TGF-β/Smad signaling pathway.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Myocardial infarction (MI) is a critical cardiovascular event with a complex pathophysiology. This study aimed to investigate the role of the adipocytokine signaling pathway in MI, assess its potential association with diagnostic features, and explore its association with molecular subtypes.Gene expression profiles from the GSE48060 and GSE66360 datasets were normalized and merged. Pathway activity was quantified using single-sample Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (ssGSEA). To prioritize genes of interest, we applied a machine learning approach using the XGBoost algorithm alongside multivariate logistic regression. Consensus clustering was then performed to explore MI subtypes, which were subsequently characterized by functional enrichment and immune cell infiltration analyses. In a small clinical cohort (n=6 per group), the expression levels of the prioritized genes were examined using qRT-PCR.The adipocytokine pathway was significantly activated in MI samples compared to controls. By integrating XGBoost and logistic regression analyses, two common genes-IRS2 and SOCS3-were identified as promising candidates for further study. Consensus clustering based on pathway-related genes distinguished two distinct MI subtypes (C1 and C2). Notably, the C2 subtype exhibited higher adipocytokine pathway activity and greater infiltration of immune cells. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that the differentially expressed genes between subtypes were primarily associated with immune response and infectious disease pathways. qRT-PCR testing confirmed that IRS2 and SOCS3 were significantly differentially expressed in this cohort.This study highlights IRS2 and SOCS3 as genes of interest within the adipocytokine pathway in MI. The identification of two distinct molecular subtypes with different pathway activity and immune landscapes provides a foundation for understanding MI heterogeneity and may generate hypotheses for future therapeutic stratification.© 2026 Liu et al.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common and aggressive primary malignant tumor of the adult central nervous system, with nearly 90% of cases recurring within two years despite standard surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy. Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) play critical roles in GBM recurrence, but their characteristics in recurrent GBM remain insufficiently defined. Krüppel-like factor 10 (KLF10) regulates metabolism, mitochondrial function, proliferation, and apoptosis; however, its role in GBM-associated TAMs remains unclear.Single-cell RNA-sequencing data from 16 GBM samples were analyzed to identify recurrence-associated TAMs. Functional features were assessed using GO, KEGG, and CellChat analyses. Marker genes were used to construct a prognostic signature through LASSO and Cox regression. The association between KLF10 and clinicopathological features was evaluated using TCGA data. A GBM cell-macrophage co-culture system was established to examine KLF10 induction, and KLF10-overexpressing macrophages were used to assess effects on GBM-cell proliferation, migration, and invasion.A five-gene prognostic signature comprising KLF10, ZFAND2A, SMAD7, GPR84, and ARHGAP12 was identified. KLF10 expression was associated with WHO grade, IDH mutation, MGMT promoter methylation, 1p/19q co-deletion, molecular subtype, and overall survival, with high KLF10 predicting poor prognosis. Functional enrichment analyses suggested that KLF10-associated genes were linked to ECM-receptor interaction, cell-cycle-related pathways, and cytokine signaling. In vitro, co-culture with GBM cells upregulated KLF10 expression in THP-1-derived macrophages, and KLF10-overexpressing macrophages were associated with increased GBM-cell proliferation, migration, and invasion.KLF10-high macrophages were associated with GBM progression and may serve as a candidate prognostic marker requiring further validation.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Chen, Fan, Chen, Cao, Hu, Zhou, Xu and Wang.
To investigate the role of histone deacetylase 2 (HDAC2) in cisplatin resistance in ovarian cancer (OC). Cisplatin-resistant OC cell lines were employed to construct HDAC2 overexpression and knockdown models, and their effects on cell proliferation and apoptosis were examined. Chromatin immunoprecipitation, immunoprecipitation, and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed to investigate the regulation of SMAD7 protein stability and promoter activity by HDAC2. Expression of DNA damage repair-related genes was detected by qRT-PCR. A xenograft mouse model was established for in vivo validation. HDAC2 was highly expressed in cisplatin-resistant OC cells. Overexpression of HDAC2 enhanced drug resistance and inhibited apoptosis and DNA damage, whereas knockdown of HDAC2 exhibited the opposite effects. Mechanistically, HDAC2 directly deacetylated the SMAD7 protein to prevent its degradation rather than suppressing its transcription via H3K27 deacetylation. The HDAC2/SMAD7 axis promoted drug resistance by activating the Wnt/β-catenin signalling pathway and modulating DNA damage repair-related genes. In vivo experiments confirmed that HDAC2 knockdown significantly inhibited tumour growth and enhanced the sensitivity. HDAC2 enhances cisplatin resistance in OC by deacetylating and stabilising SMAD7 protein, thereby activating the Wnt/β-catenin signalling pathway and promoting DNA damage repair.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42543772 is a review article
This study aimed to investigate the differences in the ameliorative effects and underlying mechanisms of Buyang Huanwu Decoction(BHD) and its different ethanol elution fractions on pulmonary fibrosis(PF). The content of amygdalin, formononetin, kaempferol, ferulic acid and paeoniflorin in the drug-containing sera of BHD and its different fractions were determined using ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem quadrupole mass spectrometry. A rat model of PF was established by intratracheal instillation of bleomycin(BLM). The rats were divided into seven groups: a control group, a BLM group, a prednisone acetate(PA) group, a BHD group, a 30% ethanol elution fraction(Fr30) group, a 50% ethanol elution fraction(Fr50) group, and a 90% ethanol elution fraction(Fr90) group. All treatments were administered continuously for 21 days. The degrees of lung inflammation and fibrosis were observed by HE and Masson staining. The hydroxyproline(HYP) levels in lung tissue were determined using a HYP assay kit. The levels of interleukin-1β(IL-1β), interleukin-6(IL-6), interleukin-10(IL-10), tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), and high mobility group box 1 protein(HMGB1) in lung tissue were determined using ELISA kits. The levels of total superoxide dismutase(T-SOD), malondialdehyde(MDA) and glutathione peroxidase(GSH-PX) in lung tissue were determined using corresponding commercial kits. Immunofluorescence staining and Western blot were used to detect the levels of epithelial-mesenchymal transition(EMT)-related proteins in lung tissue. RT-qPCR and Western blot were employed to determine the mRNA and protein levels of factors associated with the transforming growth factor-β1(TGF-β1)/Sma and Mad-related protein(Smad) pathway in lung tissue. The results showed that amygdalin was detected in the drug-containing sera of all groups, with the highest content in the Fr30 group and the lowest in the Fr90 group. Formononetin and kaempferol were detected in the BHD, Fr50, and Fr90 groups, with the highest content in the Fr50 group and the lowest in the Fr90 group. Ferulic acid was detected in all groups, with the highest content in the BHD group and the lowest in the Fr30 group. Paeoniflorin was only detected in the BHD and Fr30 groups, with similar content. Compared with the BLM group, the levels of HYP, TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β, HMGB1, and MDA decreased in all treatment groups, while the levels of IL-10, T-SOD, and GSH-PX increased. However, there was no statistical significance in the changes of T-SOD level in the Fr30 group and HYP and IL-10 levels in the Fr90 group compared with the BLM group. Immunofluorescence staining showed a marked decrease in the protein expression of α-smooth muscle actin(α-SMA) in the lung tissue of the BHD, Fr30, Fr50, and Fr90 groups. Western blot analysis showed that the expression of epithelial cadherin(E-cadherin) significantly increased, while α-SMA and vimentin protein expressions significantly decreased in the lung tissue of the BHD, Fr30, Fr50, and Fr90 groups. RT-qPCR and Western blot analysis revealed that the mRNA and protein levels of TGF-β1 in the BHD and Fr30 groups significantly decreased, the phosphorylation(p)-Smad3/Smad3 ratio in all treatment groups significantly decreased, and the mRNA and protein levels of Smad7 in the BHD, Fr30 and Fr50 groups significantly increased. In conclusion, BHD and its different ethanol elution fractions may ameliorate BLM-induced PF in rats by inhibiting the TGF-β1/Smad pathway, with the Fr30 and Fr50 fractions showing better ameliorative effects.
We previously reported that global insulin receptor substrate-2 (IRS2)-deficient mice demonstrated enhanced pulmonary vascular remodeling in response to allergen exposure or to hypoxia. To evaluate the specific contribution of IRS2 in myeloid cells to this process, we analyzed responses in mice with conditional IRS2-deficiencies in myeloid cells by crossing Irs2fl/fl mice to LysM-Cretg/wt mice and examined responses to allergens and hypoxia. There were no significant differences in the allergic inflammatory response induced by either ovalbumin adsorbed to aluminum hydroxide or by house dust mite (HDM) between Irs2fl/flLysM-Crewt/wt (Cre-/-) and Irs2fl/flLysM-Cretg/wt (Cre+/-) littermates. However, there was a significant difference between Cre-/- and Cre+/- mice in the HDM-induced remodeling of small pulmonary blood vessels. Such remodeling can lead to changes in cardiopulmonary function including increases in right ventricular systolic pressure (RVSP) and pulmonary hypertension (PH). While we did observe an increase in RVSP in response to hypoxia or allergen, there was no significant difference in RSVP between Cre-/- and Cre+/- mice. However, there was a significant difference in right heart remodeling as indicated by changes in right ventricular internal diameter and Fulton Index. These results indicate that IRS2 expression in myeloid cells limits pulmonary and cardiac remodeling responses that are induced by allergic inflammation or hypoxia.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
The RhoA/Rho-associated protein kinase (ROCK) signaling pathway plays a central role in regulating smooth muscle contraction by inhibiting myosin light chain phosphatase. While insulin has been shown to modulate ROCK activity in vascular and airway smooth muscle, its effects on gastrointestinal (GI) smooth muscle remain largely unexplored. Insulin exerts its effects through a cascade involving the insulin receptor (IR), insulin receptor substrates (IRS), phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) subunits such as p110, and downstream effectors including ROCK. The aim of the current study was to characterize the expression profile of key insulin signaling components, including IR, IRS isoforms (IRS1/2), PI3K catalytic subunits (p110α/β), and ROCK isoforms (ROCK1/2), in normal rat colon, and to determine whether insulin affects ROCK activity.Adult Sprague-Dawley rats were used to obtain colonic tissue samples. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was performed to localize IR protein expression. Quantitative PCR was used to evaluate the mRNA expression levels of IRA/B, IRS1/2, p110α/β, and ROCK1/2. The effect of insulin on acetylcholine-induced activation of ROCK was measured using a specifically designed activity assay kit. IHC confirmed the expression of IR protein in both mucosal and muscle layers of the colon wall tissue. Messenger RNA expression levels of IRA, IRS2, p110α, and ROCK2 isoforms were greater than IRB, IRS1, p110β, and ROCK1 isoforms respectively. Insulin significantly reduced acetylcholine-induced activation of ROCK.the results suggest that the colon is responsive to insulin and exhibits a distinct insulin signaling pattern. Insulin may modulate colonic contractile signaling through ROCK activity.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Rates of binge drinking have converged significantly between the sexes over recent decades, driven by increased rates of alcohol misuse in women. However, understanding of the fundamental circuitry and neurobiology driving alcohol use in females, or how this may differ from male subjects remains underexplored. Here, we quantified c-Fos expression across 40 brain regions in alcohol naïve, alcohol anticipating and binge-like drinking male and female mice. The basolateral amygdala (BLA) was of particular interest given the robust sex differences in c-Fos expression, with female mice showing greater alcohol-associated expression. This was confirmed with in vivo calcium imaging revealing greater and more prolonged BLA responsivity at the onset of alcohol intake in female mice. To functionally test this, we used chemogenetic inhibition, however non-specific inhibition of the BLA broadly reduced alcohol and other reward intake in both sexes. Given the diversity of BLA efferent projections we assessed sex differences in c-Fos expression in BLA efferent projections following alcohol consumption drinking, identifying preferential activation of the BLA to nucleus accumbens core (AcbC) projection in female mice. Precision chemogenetic inhibition of the BLA→AcbC pathway reduced binge-like alcohol intake sex-specifically in females. Together, this study uncovers sex differences in the neural circuits engaged in binge-like drinking, highlighting the BLA→AcbC projection may in part underpin sex differences in alcohol misuse. This provides further evidence of distinct neurobiological drivers of alcohol-related behaviors between the sexes.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study investigates the potential mechanisms through which the Rhubarb-Peach Kernel herb pair may exert effects in gastric cancer (GC) using network pharmacology and molecular docking approaches. Active compounds and their corresponding targets were retrieved from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology Database and Analysis Platform (TCMSP), with additional compound-target information obtained from DrugBank. Gastric cancer-related targets were collected from GeneCards, Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM), the Therapeutic Target Database, and DrugBank. The overlapping targets were used to construct a compound-target-disease network and a protein-protein interaction network. Gene ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analyses were subsequently performed. Nine candidate compounds were docked against 8 core targets to assess their predicted structural interactions. A total of 27 active compounds were identified, among which β-sitosterol, aloe-emodin, and hederagenin were identified as major candidate compounds. Tumor protein p53, caspase 3, and JUN were among the principal network targets. Enrichment analysis indicated that the overlapping targets were mainly associated with the p53 signaling pathway and other pathways involved in cancer-related processes, including apoptosis, cell survival, and inflammatory regulation. Molecular docking revealed differences in predicted binding scores among the 9 candidate compounds and 8 core targets, with several compound-target pairs showing comparatively lower docking energies. This in silico study suggests that the Rhubarb-Peach Kernel herb pair may act through multiple compounds, targets, and biological pathways relevant to GC. However, the identified targets are not necessarily specific to GC, and the molecular docking findings represent computational predictions rather than evidence of actual biological binding. These results should therefore be considered preliminary and hypothesis-generating, and further in vitro and in vivo studies are required to evaluate their biological and therapeutic relevance.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
The gut-brain axis (GBA) plays a critical role in regulating neurocognitive and gastrointestinal functions through integrated neuronal, immune, endocrine, and microbial pathways. Estrogen deficiency causes gut dysbiosis and associated GBA dysfunction. Strategies that may modulate GBA dysfunction in the postmenopausal phase need to be explored. Our present research aimed to examine the synergistic effect of soy isoflavone (SIF) and fructooligosaccharide (FOS) in combination on GBA dysfunction in an estrogen-deprived rat model.To induce similar postmenopausal complications, female SD rats were bilaterally ovariectomized (OVX) and were orally administered a combination of FOS (50 mg/kg) & SIF (40 mg/kg) and 17β-estradiol (10 μg/kg) for 28 days. At the end, the uterus, hippocampus, & proximal colon health was measured.Co-supplementation of FOS with SIF in estrogen-deprived rats synergistically improves body weight, neurobehavior, brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels, and monoamine neurotransmission. We also observed marked restoration of oxidative stress, inflammation, and apoptosis in the hippocampus and colon. With this, we also observed restoration of gut health as indicated by increased mucosal layer integrity, promoting tight junction (TJ) genes, and rebalancing the gut microbiome (GM). The combination approach also selectively activates ER-β expression in the hippocampus without affecting serum estradiol levels & uterine weight. Collectively, the combination approach acts as a selective estrogen receptor modulator and improves GBA functioning.Thus, the combination approach may attenuate GBA dysfunction in estrogen-deprived rats by selectively activating the ER-β receptor and modulating oxidative stress, inflammation, and apoptosis while preserving the mucosal layer, TJ genes, and GM.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Soft tissue tumors with chondroid matrix represent a heterogeneous group with persistent diagnostic challenges. Advances in molecular diagnostics have identified recurrent gene fusions in several chondroid neoplasms, predominantly involving FN1. Here, we report two cases of chondroid tumors harboring a novel FOS::PABPN1 fusion. The patients were young and presented with small, deep, peri-osseous nodules located in the extremities. Histologically, the tumors were well-circumscribed and lobulated. Both cases presented fibro-cartilaginous and spindle cell areas. No cytonuclear atypia, mitoses, or necrosis were observed. Immunohistochemistry (performed in Case 2) revealed positivity for S100, CD34, and FOS, with negativity for MDM2, HMGA2, PLAG1, and desmin. RNA sequencing identified an identical in-frame FOS::PABPN1 fusion transcript in both tumors. Unsupervised transcriptomic clustering positioned the cases near synovial chondromatoses and other chondroid lesions, despite the absence of FN1 rearrangements. Massive overexpression of the WIF1 (Wnt Inhibitory Factor1) gene was also observed. To our knowledge, this is the first description of FOS rearrangement in mesenchymal tumors exhibiting chondroid differentiation. The FOS::PABPN1 fusion expands the spectrum of FOS-altered neoplasms beyond osteoblastic and vascular lesions and defines a potential new molecular subset of benign chondroid tumors. These findings highlight the utility of RNA sequencing in the diagnosis of chondroid neoplasms in order to identify rearrangement (of FN1, THBS1 or FOS) or IDH1/2. The consistent upregulation of WIF1 may represent a potential diagnostic biomarker.© 2026 The Author(s). Genes, Chromosomes and Cancer published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Immune mediated inflammatory diseases (IMID) affect women of childbearing age, yet there is a lack of evidence about the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes and the interaction with medication. This study aims to characterise prescribing patterns and pregnancy outcomes in women with an IMID diagnosis.Pregnancies to women with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), psoriatic arthritis (PsA), psoriasis (PsO), spondyloarthritis (SpA) and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) were identified within the Clinical Practice Research Datalink, between 01-Jan-2000 and 31-Jun-2020, and matched to pregnancies in women with no such diagnosis. Drug prescribing patterns were described during and surrounding pregnancy. The risk of spontaneous pregnancy loss and major congenital malformations (MCMs) were evaluated compared to women without an IMID. Exposure to commonly prescribed disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs was evaluated.The risk of a spontaneous pregnancy loss ranged from HRadj 1.01 (CI950.79-1.28) for PsA to HRadj 1.18 (CI951.07-1.30) for IBD when compared to women without these conditions. No significant increases in the overall risk of MCMs were observed, with the exception of IBD where it reached borderline significance based on sensitivity analyses (ORadj 1.31 (CI951.00-1.71). No evidence of an increased risk of spontaneous loss was observed in women taking azathioprine, mesalazine and sulfasalazine.We found no increased risk of spontaneous loss in women with RA, PsA or SpA but a small increase in women with psoriasis or IBD. There was a borderline increased risk of all MCMs in offspring of women with IBD, which should be interpreted cautiously because of potential residual confounding.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British Society for Rheumatology.
Bone remodeling depends on the coordinated balance between osteoclast-mediated resorption and osteoblast-mediated formation. Although Indian hedgehog (Ihh) is known to regulate skeletal development and bone homeostasis, its direct involvement in osteoclastogenesis remains unclear.We generated a novel mouse model, Ctsk-CreERT2; Ihhfl/fl, to investigate the role of Ihh in osteoclast lineage cells. Skeletal phenotypes were assessed by radiography, micro-CT, histology, dynamic histomorphometry, and three-point bending tests. Bone marrow macrophages were isolated to assess osteoclast precursor viability, RANKL-induced osteoclast differentiation, F-actin ring formation, and bone resorptive activity using CCK-8 assays, TRAP staining, phalloidin staining, and resorption pit assays. Osteoclastogenic gene expression and signaling pathway activation were examined by RT-qPCR and Western blotting.IhhCKO mice exhibited reduced body weight and an osteosclerotic phenotype, characterized by increased metaphyseal trabecular bone mass, improved femoral peak load and stiffness, and reduced cortical bone parameters. Histological analyses revealed fewer TRAP-positive osteoclasts on trabecular surfaces, increased osteoblast-related parameters, and decreased cortical bone formation indices. In vitro, Ihh deficiency reduced osteoclast precursor viability, impaired RANKL-induced osteoclast formation, decreased F-actin ring number/size and nuclei per osteoclast, and markedly reduced resorption pit formation. Mechanistically, Ihh loss suppressed osteoclast marker and fusion-related genes and diminished RANKL-induced JNK phosphorylation, c-Fos, NFATc1, and CTSK expression.Osteoclast-lineage-derived Ihh is required for efficient RANKL-induced osteoclastogenesis and bone resorption, at least in part by sustaining the JNK/c-Fos/NFATc1 axis. These findings identify Ihh as an osteoclast-intrinsic regulator of postnatal bone remodeling.
The current evidence suggests that the formation of pulp stones (PS) has a genetic background. Therefore, the present study aimed to evaluate the association between PS in orthodontically treated patients and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the mineralization-related genes (bone morphogenetic protein 2 [BMP2], BMP4, SMAD6, and runt-related transcription factor 2 [RUNX2]).This cross-sectional study analyzed genomic DNA and panoramic radiographs from patients with a history of orthodontic treatment. Panoramic radiographs were analyzed and PS were identified as well- or poorly defined radiopaque opacities located within the pulp chamber of the maxillary and mandibular first and second permanent molars. Genomic DNA obtained from all participants was analyzed. The genetic analysis focused on seven specific SNPs located in genes involved in mineralization pathways: BMP2 (rs235768 and rs1005464), BMP4 (rs17563), SMAD6 (rs3934908 and rs2119261), and RUNX2 (rs59983488 and rs1200425). Comparisons of allele and genotype (codominant, dominant, and recessive models) distributions between patients with and without PS were performed using the chi-square test. Logistic regression analyses were performed to control for potential confounders such as age and sex for the SNPs located in the RUNX2 gene. One-way ANOVA was applied to evaluate differences in the mean number of teeth with PS across genotypes. The significance level was established at α = 0.05.The final sample comprised 235 patients: 120 presented with PS, and 115 served as controls. For the SNP rs59983488 in RUNX2, a statistical association was observed for genotype distribution in the dominant model (p = 0.033) and for allele distribution (p = 0.022). For the SNP rs1200425 in RUNX2, a statistical association was observed for genotype distribution in the recessive model (p = 0.046; odds ratio [OR] = 2.0, confidence interval [CI] 95% 1.0-3.8). No statistically significant association was observed in the logistic regression analysis.Our study suggests that RUNX2 could have a small effect on the susceptibility of orthodontic patients to develop PS.Copyright © 2026 Daniel Hemming et al. International Journal of Dentistry published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Neuromuscular oculoauditory syndrome (NMOAS; OMIM# 618733) is a rare neurodevelopmental disorder caused by heterozygous variants in DHX16, a gene in the DExD/H-box RNA helicase family. Despite increasing reports of DHX16-related NMOAS, the functional impact of specific variants on RNA splicing remains poorly understood. In this study, whole-exome sequencing identified a de novo DHX16 variant (c.1360C>G, p.Arg454Gly) in a 2-year-old boy with NMOAS. In vitro assays revealed aberrant intron retention in HSPH1 and FOS transcripts in cells expressing the mutant DHX16-1360G, suggesting impaired splicing efficiency. Longitudinal clinical follow-up uncovered progressive multisystem involvement, including delayed gonadal development and autism spectrum disorder phenotypes not previously linked to DHX16. These findings expand the genotypic and phenotypic spectrum of NMOAS, confirm the pathogenic role of this variant in splicing dysregulation, and emphasize the need for long-term monitoring of emerging comorbidities in affected patients.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Estrogen deficiency-induced osteoporosis is largely driven by excessive osteoclast formation and bone resorption, but the direct pharmacological targets of flavonoid derivatives in osteoclast differentiation remain unclear. Here, we investigated the anti-osteoclastogenic activity and molecular mechanism of 2'-O-Galloylhyperin (2'-O-GH), a structurally defined flavonoid derivative. The effects of 2'-O-GH on RANKL-induced osteoclastogenesis were evaluated in bone marrow-derived macrophages and RAW264.7 cells using TRAP staining, qPCR, western blotting, F-actin staining, immunofluorescence, and bone resorption assays. Target identification was performed using a biotinylated 2'-O-GH probe coupled with pull-down and LC-MS/MS analysis, followed by molecular docking and microscale thermophoresis. In vivo efficacy was assessed in an ovariectomy-induced osteoporosis mouse model. 2'-O-GH inhibited RANKL-induced formation of TRAP-positive multinucleated osteoclasts without evident cytotoxicity at effective concentrations. It downregulated osteoclast-related markers, including NFATc1, c-FOS, SRC, ACP5, ATP6V0D2, and CTSK, and impaired F-actin ring formation and bone resorption. Mechanistically, 2'-O-GH restrained RANKL-induced NF-κB p65 nuclear translocation. Chemical proteomics identified MAP3K11/MLK3 as a candidate target, and molecular docking and microscale thermophoresis supported its direct interaction with 2'-O-GH. 2'-O-GH further suppressed RANKL-induced phosphorylation of MLK3 and IKKα/β, whereas MLK3 overexpression partially rescued NF-κB activation and osteoclast differentiation. In ovariectomized mice, 2'-O-GH attenuated bone loss without obvious effects on body or uterine weight. These findings identify MLK3 as a pharmacological target of 2'-O-GH and suggest that 2'-O-GH suppresses osteoclastogenesis through the MLK3/IKK/NF-κB axis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Psoriasis (PsO) is a chronic, relapsing inflammatory skin disease. While targeted biologics have improved outcomes, limitations in long-term remission and safety concerns underscore the urgent need for cost-effective, safe, and potent topical therapies. Here, we investigated the therapeutic potential of Ginkgolide A (GA) for mild-to-moderate PsO. To maximize local efficacy and circumvent first-pass metabolism, we formulated a GA oily solution for topical administration. This administration of GA effectively alleviated IMQ-induced psoriasis-like dermatitis in mice. Furthermore, safety assessments confirmed that this topical approach is well-tolerated with no obvious toxicity under the tested conditions. Mechanistically, GA directly suppressed M1 macrophage polarization, as evidenced by reduced pro-inflammatory cytokine production (TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β). Time-course signaling analysis revealed that GA concurrently inhibits the PI3K-AKT axis, with mTOR, JNK and ERK being unaffected. In conclusion, our findings position the GA oily solution as a promising, cost-effective, and potent topical candidate for psoriasis, addressing a persistent clinical gap while offering translational implications for other related immune-mediated diseases.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
To evaluate the effects of melatonin on chondrogenic and osteogenic differentiation, chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation, and inflammatory responses in equine mesenchymal stem cells (eMSCs) in vitro.This in vitro experimental study was conducted from October 2023 through June 2024. The eMSCs were cultured under chondrogenic, osteogenic, and chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation conditions with or without melatonin and exposed to proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1β and tumor necrosis factor-α [TNF-α]). Expression of chondrogenic and osteogenic markers was measured by quantitative reverse-transcription PCR. Concentrations of IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-8 in culture supernatants were quantified by multiplex immunoassay.In chondrogenic cultures, melatonin was associated with increased collagen type II (COLII) and sex-determining region Y-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9) expression and was associated with higher COLII-to-collagen type I (COLI) and SOX9-to-runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) ratios, consistent with preservation of chondrogenic phenotype. During chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation, melatonin increased RUNX2 and ALP expression and decreased COLII:COLI and SOX9:RUNX2 ratios, suggesting promotion of an early osteogenic or hypertrophic shift. In contrast, in osteogenic cultures, melatonin decreased RUNX2, ALP, and COLI expression, indicating context-dependent effects on osteogenic differentiation. Across culture conditions, melatonin significantly reduced IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-8 concentrations in culture supernatants.Melatonin differentially modulated lineage behavior in eMSCs, preserving chondrogenic characteristics in some settings, promoting early osteogenic transition during transdifferentiation, and suppressing proinflammatory mediator production.These findings support further investigation of melatonin as a potential adjunct for modulating proinflammatory responses during equine cartilage repair and other inflammatory musculoskeletal disorders.
Peri-implantitis is caused by bacterial infection. Melatonin (Mel) is effective on treating periodontitis, but its efficacy on peri-implantitis remains unclear. The present study assessed the therapeutic effects of Mel on peri-implantitis and its mode of action. Peri-implant in vivo model was generated by implanting titanium implants and feeding rats with sugar water. Human periodontal ligament stem cells (hPDLSCs) were treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to induce inflammation in vitro. Inflammation was evaluated by measuring cytokines contents. Osteogenic differentiation was assessed by Alkaline phosphatase and Alizarin red S staining, and measurements of RUNX2, OCN and OPN through quantitative real-time PCR. Effect of Mel in vivo was evaluated by hematoxylin-eosin staining. Results showed that Mel significantly inhibited inflammation but facilitated osteogenic differentiation in LPS-induced hPDLSCs. In LPS-treated hPDLSCs, Mel enhanced protein succinylation while elevating HAT1 expression. Notably, the beneficial effects of Mel on suppressing inflammation and promoting osteogenic differentiation were reversed by HAT1 knockdown. Mechanically, HAT1 knockdown inhibited succinylation and stability of p65 protein, but enhanced phosphorylation of p65 and p65 nuclear translocation at K311 site. Consistently, in the rat peri-implantitis model, Mel treatment suppressed inflammatory infiltration and promoted osteogenic differentiation, effects which were dependent on HAT1 expression and associated with increased p65 succinylation and decreased phosphorylation. In conclusion, we demonstrated that Mel exerts therapeutic effects on peri-implantitis in vivo, and our in vitro data suggests this may be mediated by promoting p65 succinylation by upregulating HAT1, thereby inhibiting p65 nuclear translocation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
For proper locomotion, bone and muscle development must be tightly coordinated. Skeletal muscle secretes myokines that affect tissues, including bone. We previously showed that maternal exercise (ME) enhances fetal muscle development through apelin signaling. However, whether mitochondrial dysfunction impairs fetal skeletal development and whether ME mitigates these defects remain unclear. Heterozygous POLG mutant (Polgmut/+) mice were used to examine the effects of ME and apelin signaling on fetal osteogenesis. Pregnant Polgmut/+ females underwent treadmill exercise, and apelin receptor knockdown (ApjKD) mice and maternal apelin supplementation were used to evaluate apelin signaling. POLG mutation impaired fetal osteogenesis and disrupted skeletal morphology. RNA-seq revealed downregulation of pathways related to cytoskeletal organization and mitochondrial function. ME was associated with upregulation of osteogenesis and development. ME increased apelin abundance in maternal-fetal circulation and tissues, including fetal muscle and bone. Importantly, apelin administration increased fetal osteogenesis in POLG mutation, whereas ApjKD reduced osteogenic signaling in fetal bone and myogenic gene expression in fetal muscle. Apelin also enhanced mitochondrial respiration in fetal bone-derived osteogenic cells. Mechanistically, ME-induced apelin signaling was associated with increased mitochondrial biogenesis and enhanced ATF4-RUNX2 regulatory signaling. Collectively, these findings suggest that ME-induced apelin signaling contributes to fetal skeletal development under mitochondrial dysfunction.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Osteoporosis and osteosarcoma impose a substantial and rising global health burden, yet their transcriptomic landscapes have not been systematically compared. We performed a multiomics characterization integrating bulk transcriptomics, coexpression network analysis, immune deconvolution, single-cell RNA sequencing, and diagnostic classifier construction.Bulk transcriptomic profiling was performed using GSE56815 (circulating blood monocytes, n = 80; 40 low-BMD/40 high-BMD) and the TARGET-OS database (n = 88 osteosarcoma tumor samples; DNA methylation n = 86; copy number n = 81). Differential expression was assessed by Welch's t-test with Benjamini-Hochberg correction. Coexpression modules were identified by hierarchical clustering of the Top 2000 most variable probes with dynamic tree cutting. A logistic regression classifier was constructed from the Top 20 differentially expressed probes using fivefold-stratified cross-validation. Single-cell RNA sequencing of an osteosarcoma tumor specimen (GEO accession GSM9030790) was processed with SVD-based dimensionality reduction and K-means clustering (k = 8; n = 3658 cells passing QC). In vitro validation was conducted by qRT-PCR in MC3T3-E1 osteoblast precursor cells and RAW264.7 osteoclast precursor cells.Differential expression analysis identified 4347 probe sets at nominal p < 0.05, of which 604 remained significant after Benjamini-Hochberg correction. Eight coexpression modules were identified; module M0 showed a weak positive association with low-BMD status (r = 0.184), which did not reach statistical significance. Six hub genes-SP7/Osterix, RUNX2, BMP2, WNT5A, DKK1, and SOST-were examined by qRT-PCR: SP7, RUNX2, BMP2, and WNT5A showed significant downregulation (p < 0.01), whereas DKK1 showed significant upregulation (p < 0.01) and SOST showed a nonsignificant trend toward upregulation under osteoporosis-simulating conditions. The diagnostic classifier achieved a moderate AUC of 0.693 (fivefold CV range: 0.48-0.91), with the lower bound falling below the random classifier baseline (AUC = 0.5), indicating limited discriminative capacity in some data partitions. scRNA-seq resolved eight transcriptionally distinct cell clusters in the osteosarcoma specimen (3658 cells passing QC).This integrative multiomics study provides a comprehensive transcriptomic comparison of osteoporosis and osteosarcoma, identifies BMD-associated coexpression modules with experimentally validated hub genes, and establishes a reusable analytical framework for biomarker discovery in metabolic and malignant bone disease. However, the weak module-trait correlations, subthreshold classifier performance in some cross-validation folds, and the use of circulating blood monocytes to study bone-specific gene expression warrant cautious interpretation of the findings.Copyright © 2026 Dongming Fu et al. International Journal of Genomics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Deciphering the mechanisms that govern lineage commitment of human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) is essential for optimizing differentiation strategies. Here, we uncover the role of the mitochondrial protein OCIAD2 in hPSC fate decisions. We show that OCIAD2 is transiently upregulated during mesendoderm differentiation in response to TGFβ/Activin A signaling. OCIAD2 depletion disrupted TGFβ and WNT signaling, impaired mesendoderm specification, and resulted in an incomplete epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Furthermore, OCIAD2 loss reduced mitochondrial dynamics and fatty acid oxidation, indicating dysregulated lipid metabolism. Transcriptome and biochemical analysis of OCIAD2-knockout (KO) and -overexpressing (OV) hESCs identified OCIAD2 as a positive regulator of TGFβ signaling. Supplementation with acetate alongside Wnt3a increased SMAD2/3 acetylation and restored mesendoderm differentiation in KO. We propose that OCIAD2 integrates metabolic cues with TGFβ signaling to regulate EMT. This study provides new insight into how mitochondrial proteins influence lineage commitment, highlighting broader implications for developmental biology and tumor progression.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Dentinogenesis, a process essential for tooth function, relies on the precise differentiation of dental papilla cells into odontoblasts. This lineage commitment is governed by complex transcription factor networks. RUNX2 and KLF4, known key TFs co-expressed in this process, were proven to operate synergistically, but the specific cofactors coordinating their activity at the chromatin level remain unknown. Here, we identify the chromatin remodeller BRD9 as a novel interactor of both RUNX2 and KLF4 during odontoblastic differentiation. To probe their shared function, we generated neural crest-specific conditional knockout mice. Wnt1-Cre; Brd9fl/fl mice exhibited a disordered odontoblast layer with reduced secretion of extracellular matrix proteins (DMP1 and DSPP), strikingly phenocopying the compound Wnt1-Cre; Runx2fl/wt; Klf4fl/fl mutants. In vitro, chemical BRD9 degradation suppressed odontoblastic differentiation and mineral deposition. Integrative analyses of RNA-seq and ATAC-seq revealed that BRD9 maintained chromatin accessibility at odontogenesis-associated regions enriched with RUNX2 and KLF4 motifs, specifically at the Fam20c enhancer, thereby facilitating RUNX2 and KLF4 binding for transcriptional activation. Crucially, exogenous supplementation of FAM20C protein partially rescued the odontoblastic differentiation defects upon BRD9 loss. These findings establish BRD9 as a critical epigenetic orchestrator that coordinates RUNX2-KLF4 synergy to activate key odontogenic genes like Fam20c, thus affecting odontoblastic differentiation and dentinogenesis.© 2026 The Author(s). Cell Proliferation published by Beijing Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
This study evaluated the neuroprotective effects of inhibiting the pro-apoptotic molecule Bim (Bcl-2-interacting mediator of cell death) in retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). A mouse optic nerve crush (ONC) model was used to induce RGC degeneration. Bim expression and RGC survival were assessed by immunohistochemistry, RBPMS immunofluorescence, and histological analyses. Following intravitreal injection of AAV2-shBim, retinal structure and visual function were evaluated by optical coherence tomography, flash visual evoked potentials, and flash electroretinography. Optic nerve axons were assessed by CTB-555 anterograde tracing. Primary dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons were used to examine the effects of Bim manipulation on axon growth. RNA sequencing, qPCR, and pharmacological modulation of Drd1 signaling were performed to investigate associated molecular changes. ONC induced marked upregulation of Bim expression accompanied by substantial RGC loss. AAV2-shBim treatment reduced Bim expression, preserved retinal structure, increased RGC survival, partially improved visual function, and enhanced axonal preservation after injury. In DRG cultures, Bim knockdown promoted axon elongation, whereas Bim overexpression suppressed axon growth. Transcriptomic analysis identified significant upregulation of Drd1 following Bim inhibition, which was confirmed by qPCR. Pharmacological activation of DRD1 enhanced axon growth, whereas DRD1 blockade attenuated this effect. Taken together, these findings indicate that Bim inhibition is associated with enhanced RGC survival and axonal preservation after ONC, with Drd1 related signaling potentially contributing to these effects.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) involves hippocampal and prefrontal dysfunction. Cannabidiol (CBD) shows therapeutic promise, but its cell-type-specific and causal mechanisms remain unclear.We performed single-cell RNA sequencing of hippocampal and prefrontal cortices from PTSD mice, healthy controls, and CBD-treated PTSD mice. Genes dysregulated in PTSD and reversed by CBD were integrated with human PTSD GWAS and brain eQTL datasets using summary-data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR) to identify causal risk targets. Molecular docking assessed direct CBD-protein interactions.PTSD induced extensive transcriptional alterations, most prominent in excitatory neurons. SMR analysis identified 15 potential causal risk genes linked to PTSD. Among these, 7 high-confidence targets were confirmed to be transcriptionally responsive to CBD treatment. In the hippocampus, key causal targets included LYNX1 (OR = 0.75, 95% CI: 0.57-0.98, P = 0.038), RAB3C (OR = 1.291, 95% CI: 1.052-1.584, P = 0.015), MAGI2 (OR = 1.15, 95% CI: 1.00-1.31, P = 0.048), LINGO2 (OR = 1.48, 95% CI: 1.07-2.03, P = 0.017), and UNC5D (OR = 1.41, 95% CI: 1.03-1.93, P = 0.032). In the prefrontal cortex, identified targets were CNTN3 (OR = 0.78, 95% CI: 0.62-0.98, P = 0.036), IGSF21 (OR = 1.22, 95% CI: 1.04-1.42, P = 0.012). While SEPTIN3 (OR = 1.25, 95% CI: 1.01-1.56, P = 0.043) was identified as a causal risk gene, its expression was not reversed by CBD. Molecular docking indicated that all 15 SMR-identified candidates possess strong binding affinity to CBD, including RAB3C (-8.636 kcal/mol), CNTN3 (-7.216 kcal/mol), and LINGO2 (-6.222 kcal/mol), which suggests a direct pharmacological interaction.This study identifies causal, region-specific CBD targets in PTSD, providing a mechanistic basis for precision therapeutic interventions.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Diabetic wounds often result in non-healing chronic ulcers due to prolonged inflammation, oxidative stress and impaired tissue regeneration. Current hydrophilic wound dressings primarily function as absorption dressings and have limited tissue regeneration capabilities, leading to extended healing periods. Peptides have been identified as therapeutic macromolecules with several cellular modulatory functions. They possess cell adhesion, matrix formation, cell proliferation, angiogenesis and tissue regenerative properties that are essential for wound healing. Therefore, a novel fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl-substituted arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (FRGD) oligopeptide was co-incorporated with mesoporous silica into poloxamer 407/PEG 8000 hydrogel base in five formulations (F0-F4) intended to modulate the impaired regenerative microenvironment of diabetic wounds. Formulations were characterised for pH, texture, rheology, morphology, DSC and FT-IR, and the formulations were evaluated in streptozotocin-nicotinamide-induced diabetic Sprague Dawley rats with full-thickness dorsal excisional wounds using daily topical application for 15 days. Healing outcomes were assessed by wound closure measurements, histology, immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, qRT-PCR and ELISA. The hydrogels exhibited a near-physiological pH (7.26-7.33), suitable hardness (18.0-32.3 g) and a thermoreversible sol-gel transition, with apparent viscosity at low shear rising from ≈ 33.2 kPa·s at 25 °C to ≈ 47.0 kPa·s at 32 °C, indicating in situ gelation at skin temperature. In vivo, F4 formulation with FRGD oligopeptide significantly accelerated wound closure from day 6 onwards (p < 0.01), achieving near-complete re-epithelialisation by day 15 compared to the positive control. Histologically, F4 formulation-treated wounds showed continuous stratified epidermis, organised collagen alignment, hair-follicle regeneration and reduced inflammation. At the molecular level, F4 formulation significantly reduced Tgfb1 and Smad5, normalised Smad2 and reactivated the Wnt/β-catenin pathway (Wnt10a, Ctnnb1). Angiogenic (Vegfa, Pecam1, Hif1a) and ECM remodelling markers were restored, with enhanced COL1A1 deposition and CD31-positive neovascularisation. F4 formulation also suppressed pro-inflammatory mediators (Tnf, Il1b, Il6, Nfkb1) and elevated IL-10 at both gene and protein levels, indicating a reparative immune environment. Collectively, these findings indicate that the FRGD/mesoporous silica hydrogel can modulate the TGF-β/Smad and Wnt/β-catenin pathways and support tissue repair in a diabetic wound model. Long-term remodelling and scar-quantification studies are required to confirm accelerated healing.© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Congenital heart disease (CHD), which represents the most common type of human birth defect affecting approximately 1% of all live births globally, is a leading cause of substantial infant mortality and morbidity worldwide. Although aggregating evidence has convincingly suggested a strong genetic basis underpinning CHD, the inherited components underlying CHD in most cases remain indefinite. Hence, the current investigation aimed to identify and characterize novel genetic variations underlying CHD. A five-generation pedigree with patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) and another group of 174 index patients with CHD were enrolled. In addition, 218 unrelated non-CHD people were employed as controls. Clinical assessments, along with exome-sequencing and Sanger-sequencing examinations, were performed in the study participants. The functional effects of the detected variations in the SMAD5 gene, which encodes a transcription factor required for proper cardiovascular morphogenesis, were measured by dual-luciferase reporter assays. Two new SMAD5 variants, NM_005903.7: c.244 A > T; p.(Lys82*) and NM_005903.7: c.209G > T; p.(Arg70Ile), were detected in a heterozygous status in the PDA pedigree and one PDA case out of the 174 index patients affected with CHD, respectively. Neither of the two SMAD5 variations was observed in the 436 control chromosomes. Quantitative biochemical assays using dual-reporter genes revealed that the Lys82*- or Arg70Ile-mutant SMAD5 possessed diminished transactivation of NKX2.5, an established CHD-causative gene. Furthermore, the Lys82* or Arg70Ile variation nullified or significantly reduced the synergistic transactivation of ID2 between SMAD5 and BMP4, and both ID2 and BMP4 had been causally implicated in the pathogenesis underpinning CHD. The present findings indicate that SMAD5 haplo-insufficient variants contribute to PDA in humans, which sheds more light on the genetic architecture of PDA and implies a potential target for genetic counseling and individualized medicine of PDA in a subgroup of patients.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42448410 is a review article
Aortic dissection (AD) is a life-threatening cardiovascular emergency characterized by acute aortic wall injury and high mortality, yet effective pharmacological therapies remain limited. Macrophage infiltration and vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) phenotypic switching from contractile to synthetic states are central to AD pathogenesis, but the mechanisms mediating intercellular communication between macrophages and VSMCs are incompletely understood. Emerging evidence suggests that exosomes can transfer bioactive miRNAs between cells; however, whether M1 macrophage-derived exosomes promote AD progression through specific miRNA delivery and whether they can be engineered for therapeutic intervention have not been clearly defined. In this study, we demonstrate that M1 macrophage-derived exosomes deliver miR-155-5p to VSMCs, where it targets and suppresses SMAD5, activates the RHOA/ROCK pathway, and drives contractile-to-synthetic phenotypic switching, thereby accelerating AD progression. Through comprehensive physicochemical characterization, including TEM, NTA, Zeta potential, and stability assays, we show that M0 macrophage-derived exosomes can be successfully engineered to load Antago-miR-155-5p via electroporation with favorable encapsulation efficiency and colloidal stability. In a BAPN-induced mouse model of AD, intravenous administration of Antago-miR-155-5p-loaded M0-Exos significantly improved survival, reduced AD incidence and aortic dilation, and restored VSMC contractile markers. Biodistribution studies using DiR and CY5 labeling confirmed efficient accumulation of these engineered exosomes in the injured aorta, while macrophage depletion and rescue experiments validated the pathogenic role of M1-derived exosomes. These findings identify a novel M1 exosome-miR-155-5p-SMAD5/RHOA/ROCK signaling axis in AD and establish engineered M0 macrophage-derived exosomes as a promising bioactive material platform for targeted miRNA therapy in aortic dissection.© 2026 The Authors.
Vasculogenic mimicry (VM) in breast cancer is recognized as an important non-endothelium-dependent vascular mechanism that promotes tumor invasiveness, survival, and metastatic potential; however, effective and specific intervention strategies remain limited. In this study, we innovatively constructed a nanodelivery system based on hybrid membranes derived from bacterial outer membrane vesicles and breast cancer cell membranes, termed mTOMV, and loaded it with the natural flavonoid isoliquiritigenin (ISL) to enhance targeted antitumor activity. ISL@mTOMV nanoparticles exhibited a uniform spherical morphology, favorable stability, and good biocompatibility. In vitro experiments demonstrated that ISL@mTOMV significantly inhibited the proliferation, migration, and invasion of MDA-MB-231 and MCF-7 breast cancer cells, while promoting tumor cell apoptosis. Mechanistically, ISL@mTOMV markedly reduced the expression of ACLY, H3K27ac, and SMAD5 and suppressed the activity of the TGF-β/SMAD signaling pathway. In vivo experiments further confirmed that ISL@mTOMV inhibited ACLY-mediated H3K27 acetylation, attenuated SMAD5 transcriptional activation, and blocked TGF-β/SMAD signaling, thereby significantly suppressing VM formation in breast cancer. Collectively, this study proposes a highly biocompatible and tumor-targeted nanotherapeutic strategy, providing a new technical approach and potential translational value for VM intervention in breast cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Objective: To investigate the role of BCL-2-interacting mediator of cell death (BIM), a pro-apoptotic molecule, in retinal ganglion cell (RGC) injury after optic nerve crush (ONC), and to analyze its association with changes in the expression of inflammation-related genes. Methods: This was an experimental study. The study was conducted from January 2025 to December 2025. Healthy male mice aged 6-8 weeks were randomly divided into four groups: control, ONC, AAV2-scramble, and AAV2-shBim, with 6 mice in each group. The control group received no intervention, the ONC group underwent ONC only, the AAV2-scramble group received intravitreal injection of AAV2-mediated scrambled negative control sequence after ONC, and the AAV2-shBim group received intravitreal injection of AAV2-mediated short hairpin RNA targeting the BIM gene after ONC. Immunohistochemical staining was used to detect the protein expression of Bim, complement component 3 (C3), and lipocalin 2 (Lcn2). Hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining was used to observe retinal structural changes. Retinal flat-mount immunofluorescence staining was used to assess RGC survival. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) was used to measure ganglion cell complex (GCC) thickness. Flash visual evoked potential (F-VEP) and flash electroretinography (F-ERG) were used to evaluate visual electrophysiological function. RNA sequencing was performed to analyze retinal transcriptomic changes after BIM knockdown. Quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) was used to validate inflammation-related differentially expressed genes. Independent-sample t-test and one-way analysis of variance were used for statistical analysis. Results: The proportions of Bim-positive RGCs in the peripheral and central retina were 0.56±0.06 and 0.63±0.06 in the ONC group, respectively, both of which were higher than those in the control group (0.00±0.00) (t=21.60, 24.61; both P<0.001). The numbers of RNA-binding protein with multiple splicing(RBPMS)-positive RGCs in the peripheral and central retina were 74.2±4.4 and 118.5±8.0 in the ONC group, respectively, both of which were lower than those in the control group (222.7±6.0 and 325.0±6.5, respectively) (t=48.94, 48.88; both P<0.001). Significant differences were observed among the four groups in ganglion cell complex thickness, the number of TUJ1-positive RGCs, F-VEP N2-P2 amplitude, and F-ERG b-wave amplitude (F=57.42, 1 216.78, 467.88, 423.76; all P<0.001). In the AAV2-shBim group, ganglion cell complex thickness, the number of TUJ1-positive RGCs, F-VEP N2-P2 amplitude, and F-ERG b-wave amplitude were 54.64±2.61 μm, 242.8±13.1, 11.13±0.80 μV, and 318.00±25.14 μV, respectively, all of which were higher than those in the ONC group [(44.29±1.95) μm, 140.0±5.3, (3.43±0.48) μV, and (190.68±25.50) μV, respectively] (all P<0.001). RNA sequencing showed that the expression levels of the inflammation-related genes C3, CCL12, LCN2, S100A9, CCL6, and ANGPTL4 were lower in the AAV2-shBim group than in the ONC group (t=10.21, 12.02, 8.98, 12.19, 7.33, 9.41; all P<0.001), and the quantitative polymerase chain reaction results were consistent with the RNA sequencing results. The C3-positive cell rates in the central and peripheral retina were 0.11±0.04 and 0.08±0.02 in the AAV2-shBim group, respectively, both of which were lower than those in the ONC group (0.64±0.06 and 0.57±0.05, respectively) (t=18.63, 21.04; both P<0.001). The Lcn2-positive cell rates in the central and peripheral retina were 0.08±0.03 and 0.09±0.02 in the AAV2-shBim group, respectively, both of which were lower than those in the ONC group (0.55±0.06 and 0.48±0.07, respectively) (t=17.19, 12.38; both P<0.001). Conclusions: BIM expression is upregulated after ONC. AAV2-mediated BIM knockdown alleviates RGC loss, retinal structural damage, and visual electrophysiological dysfunction, accompanied by downregulation of inflammation-related gene expression.
BackgroundThe main aim of this study is to identify prognostic biomarkers through integrating bioinformatics analysis in gastric cancer, which is a significant global health challenge.MethodsGene expression datasets related to blood, tissue, and saliva in gastric cancer were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database and analyzed. The bioinformatics approaches included the identification of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and enrichment analysis, as well as Kaplan-Meier Plotter survival analysis. The DEGs were also validated through The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. Additionally, DEGs-associated lncRNAs and microRNAs were identified. Subsequently, Tumor and Immune System Interaction Database (TISIDB) was utilized to examine the correlation of the genes of interest with immune and molecular subtypes.ResultsTwenty-six common DEGs were identified across blood, tissue, and saliva samples. Among them, 17 genes showed significant expression based on TCGA data. RAB23, LOX, ELL2, ELK3, CENPF, CD44, ANP32E, AKR1C2, and SMAD5 displayed significant association with patient survival. Particularly, ELL2 exhibit decreased expression in all specimens. The results indicated that ELL2 has a significant correlation with the immune system. The ELL2 gene regulates immune cell functions in gastric cancer, potentially influencing cancer immune responses, and tumor progression.ConclusionELL2 downregulated expression and its correlation with survival across blood, tissue, and saliva samples using bioinformatics analysis underscores the necessity of more investigation to fully comprehend its function in cancer immunology.
Recent advances in predicting and modeling conformational ensembles of intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs) have provided much needed insights into sequence-ensemble relationships. It is thought that conservation of physicochemical properties, but not the exact identity or order of the amino acids, maintains IDP ensemble properties that are crucial for function. However, detailed experimental studies are still required to fully understand the relationships between sequence and function in IDPs. The human CITED proteins, which are fully disordered transcriptional regulators, share conserved C-terminal transactivation domains (CTADs) that interact with the TAZ1 domain of the transcriptional coactivators CBP/p300. The conserved CTADs harbor amino acid substitutions in regions that are known to be important for interactions of CITED2 with TAZ1, but the effects of these substitutions on TAZ1 binding for the other CITED proteins are unknown. Here, we use solution NMR spectroscopy, circular dichroism, and surface plasmon resonance to characterize the conformational ensembles, dynamics, and interactions of the CITED CTADs. The CTADs are disordered in isolation, although the CITED2 CTAD uniquely displays residual helical structure that is sensitive to ionic strength and protein concentration. In contrast, the CITED1 and CITED4 CTADs remain largely disordered and exhibit more uniform dynamics. Quantitative binding measurements reveal differences in thermodynamics and kinetics for the CTADs' interactions with TAZ1, with CITED2 binding most tightly and CITED4 exhibiting significantly weaker affinity. Our results highlight the sensitivity of IDP conformational ensembles to minor sequence changes and the impacts that changes in IDP structures and dynamics can have on biological functions.© 2026 The Author(s). Protein Science published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Protein Society.
Homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 2 (HIPK2) can function either as a tumour suppressor or promoter in cancer. Understanding key features of HIPK2 context dependent effects in cancer could lead to novel therapeutic strategies. Our investigation of HIPK2 expression in gastric cancer (GC) showed it to be down regulated.HIPK2 manifested context dependent anti- and pro-tumorigenic effects as demonstrated in GC cell lines SNU638 and NUGC-3 (β-Cateninlow, CD44Hi) and AGS (β-CateninHi, CD44low). The dualistic effects could be plausible due to HIPK2's differential impacts on the Akt-mTOR pathway. The HIPK2 inhibitor TBID further supported this context-dependent regulation of mTOR markers. Gene expression combined with protein-protein interactions analysis was used to identify the HIPK2-NLK-MAPK11 axis linked by their interaction with transcription factor MYB in GC. Validation of the axis was shown by increased NLK and MAPK11 expression in GC cell lines concordant with lower HIPK2 expression. Similarly, HIPK2 ectopically expressing cells showed lower levels of NLK and MAPK11 expression. Combinatorial targeting of HIPK2-NLK/MAPK11 axis with (HIPK2i + NLKi) or (HIPK2i + MAPK11i) resulted in a synergistic effect suppressing GC cell proliferation and mTOR markers. Targeting HIPK2 in combination with NLK or MAPK11 can be a promising strategy to overcome context dependent effects of HIPK2.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Human Cell Society.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is the most common subtype of non-small cell lung cancer and remains a major cause of cancer-related mortality. Despite advances in targeted therapies, tumor heterogeneity and acquired resistance frequently undermine clinical outcomes. This study aimed to identify novel oncogenic drivers and underlying mechanisms in LUAD.We examined cellular retinoic acid-binding protein 2 (CRABP2) expression in human LUAD specimens and evaluated its functional role through in vitro assays (cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and apoptosis) and in vivo xenograft tumor growth. Mechanistic exploration involved RNA sequencing, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment, and immunoblotting for the nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) signaling components, along with rescue experiments to dissect the pathway dependency.CRABP2 was identified as a candidate oncogene in LUAD. Functional assays confirmed that CRABP2 promoted proliferation, migration, and invasion, suppressed apoptosis, and accelerated xenograft tumor growth. Mechanistically, CRABP2 potentiated retinoic acid (RA) signaling and activated the NF-κB pathway, as evidenced by enhanced inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa-B kinase subunit beta (IKKβ) phosphorylation, subsequent NF-κB inhibitor alpha (IκBα) phosphorylation, and nuclear translocation of total and phosphorylated p65. Rescue experiments revealed that CRABP2‑induced NF-κB activation is RA-dependent and that this activation mediates the oncogenic effects of CRABP2.Our findings establish a CRABP2/RA/NF‑κB axis that drives LUAD progression, highlighting this pathway as a potential therapeutic target for intervention in LUAD.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Occult hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection (OBI) has the same transmission routes and clinical outcomes as overt HBV infection. However, due to the lack of reliable biomarkers, its occurrence and potential clinical harm are often overlooked. We previously found that the prevalence of OBI increases with age among individuals vaccinated at birth, but the transcriptome characteristics of their immune cells remain unknown. In this study, fifteen subjects born between 1987 and 1993 and vaccinated perinatally were recruited. They were divided into OBI, inactive chronic HBsAg carriers (ICHC) and healthy control groups. Blood samples were drawn from each subject for scRNA-seq and subsequent validation studies. The results showed that eleven cell types and nine T-cell subsets were identified, with no significant differences in the proportions of T-cell subsets among the three groups. HIPK2 expression in T cells was downregulated 1.42-fold in the OBI group versus healthy controls (p = 2.01 × 10-69) and upregulated 1.34-fold versus the ICHC infection group (p = 9.95 × 10-61). Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in immune-related pathways were enriched in the OBI group. TP53 plays a central role in HIPK2 function in the context of OBI. Serum HIPK2 levels were significantly lower in the OBI group than in the healthy controls (p = 0.047), but they were also significantly lower than in the ICHC infection group. In conclusion, downregulated HIPK2 expression in T cells is associated with OBI. The functional role of HIPK2 in OBI, including its role as a biomarker to distinguish OBI from a healthy status, warrants further investigation.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) remains difficult to treat in a substantial minority of patients, despite the established first-line use of exposure and response prevention, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, and pharmacological augmentation. This treatment gap has encouraged renewed interest in biological axes that sit outside a narrow monoamine-centered model. In this study, we asked whether transcriptional genetic signals for OCD show enrichment in cellular maintenance pathways motivated by nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN)-associated aging biology and whether any such pathways outperform a curated antidepressant-related gene comparator. Using OCD transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS)-derived gene-level Z statistics and an absolute Z-score ranking framework, ten NMN-motivated Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway expansions were compared against AntiDep_Genes. The strongest and most defensible finding in the OCD analysis was selective enrichment of KEGG_AUTOPHAGY_ANIMAL. Autophagy nominally outperformed the antidepressant comparator in the primary head-to-head test, with normalized enrichment score (NES) = 1.166, p = 0.041979, and difference in normalized enrichment score (dNES) = +0.2097. The signal persisted after removal of overlapping antidepressant-related genes, with cleaned NES = 1.1784 and p = 0.042479, and the autophagy set also showed a higher absolute Z-score distribution than AntiDep_Genes by Mann-Whitney U testing, p = 0.04717. Leading-edge overlap with the antidepressant comparator was minimal, limited to mechanistic target of rapamycin (MTOR). The OCD autophagy signal was driven by a mixture of core autophagy machinery and upstream signaling genes, including MAPK3, MAP1LC3A, PPP2CB, MAP2K1, GORASP2, BAD, ATG2A, ATG10, MAPK8, and CALCOCO2. This pattern suggests a signaling-execution module rather than a simple enrichment of canonical ATG genes alone. The result is biologically consistent with recent OCD genetic findings implicating cortical and hippocampal excitatory neurons and D1/D2 striatal medium spiny neurons, which are cell types with high synaptic and metabolic demands. These findings are best viewed as hypothesis-generating. They do not support NMN, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) precursors, or autophagy modulators as OCD treatments, but they do identify autophagy and mitochondrial quality-control biology as plausible targets for future functional and stratification studies. The autophagy enrichment was nominally significant in the primary analysis but did not survive Benjamini-Hochberg false-discovery rate correction across the ten tested pathways (false discovery rate (FDR)-adjusted p = 0.41979); the findings should therefore be considered hypothesis-generating.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42500827 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42486541
Lipid nanoparticles (LNPs) are clinically validated carriers for the delivery of small interfering RNA (siRNA). Their efficient tissue accessibility and cellular uptake complement conjugated siRNA approaches. While chemical modifications are critical for stabilizing siRNAs and enhancing their potency (particularly in conjugated formats), their contribution in LNP delivery is not fully understood. Here, we systematically evaluated advanced sequence-modification patterns in siRNAs targeting YAP1 and WWTR1 to define their impact on LNP-siRNAs. We found that siRNAs fully incorporating 2'-O-methyl (2'-OMe), 2'-fluoro nucleotides achieved superior knockdown efficacy in vivo compared with partially modified LNP-siRNAs typically used in clinical drugs. Further increasing the proportion of 2'-OMe to 86% did not impair RNA interference activity, and DNA substitutions provide additional opportunities for structural optimization to collectively enhance knockdown efficacy in mouse liver. In contrast, 5'-(E)-vinylphosphonate modification of the guide strand provides no benefit to knockdown efficacy in vitro or in vivo, likely owing to differences in endosomal trafficking between LNP and conjugated siRNAs. These findings provide a framework for chemical optimization of LNP-based siRNAs. The generation of siRNAs with greater efficacy and longer durability facilitates lower doses with less frequent administration, which mitigates LNP-associated toxicity and improves the therapeutic potential of LNP delivery systems.
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) is a common and challenging microvascular complication of diabetes. TGF-β1-mediated epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in renal tubular epithelial cells, characterized by loss of epithelial polarity and intercellular adhesion alongside acquisition of a mesenchymal phenotype, is widely recognized as a key driver of DKD. Here, we reveal that renal interstitial fibrosis (RIF) and EMT constitute important pathological foundations for DKD progression, validated in both clinical DKD patients and DKD mouse models. Concurrently, we confirm the elevated expression of homoeotic domain-interacting protein kinase 2 (HIPK2) in DKD, though its regulatory role in EMT remains unclear. We further established a DKD-EMT cellular model by inducing human renal tubular epithelial cells (HK-2) with TGF-β1 combined with high glucose stimulation. Here, we found that inhibiting HIPK2 expression significantly delayed EMT progression and improved RIF in DKD. Thus, our study provides a novel therapeutic strategy for DKD progression and demonstrates that HIPK2 serves as a potential therapeutic target for DKD-EMT.
HIPK2 is a nuclear serine/threonine kinase that regulates development and cellular stress responses including DNA damage response. Previously we have shown that HDAC6 increases HIPK2 protein stability via UBP domain rather than its deacetylase activity. Here, we identify USP2 as a deubiquitinase that stabilizes HIPK2 by complexing to HDAC6 UBP. Overexpression of USP2 increased while its knockdown or chemical inhibition decreased the protein level of HIPK2. USP2 decreased the polyubiquitination of HIPK2, suggesting that USP2 is a HIPK2 deubiquitinase. We found evidence that HDAC6, USP2 and HIPK2 form complex in cells. Importantly, USP2 knockdown or chemical inhibition suppressed the HDAC6-mediated accumulation of HIPK2 protein. This indicates that the HDAC6-mediated HIPK2 regulation is USP2-dependent. Functionally, upregulation of HIPK2 by USP2 promoted the TNFα-induced cell death. Overall, our data suggest that USP2 increases HIPK2 protein stability and enhances its proapoptotic function.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Aerobic glycolysis is increasingly recognized as a pathogenic driver in diabetic kidney disease (DKD). However, the epigenetic role of its end product, lactate, remains largely undefined. Spatial transcriptomics analysis revealed active glycolysis in tubular epithelial cells. The participation of histone lactylation in DKD was confirmed through inhibition of histone lactylation by glycolysis inhibitors or lactate in vivo. The potential target genes of H4K12 lactylation (H4K12la) were screened by CUT&Tag analyses. The candidate target genes were validated through ChIP‑qPCR, RT‑qPCR and western blot analyses. The present study found that the expression of 6‑phosphofructo‑2‑kinase/fructose‑2,6‑biphosphatase 3 (PFKFB3), a pivotal glycolytic regulator, was markedly upregulated in tubular epithelial cells derived from patients with DKD and from the corresponding mouse models. Inhibition of the expression of PFKFB3 mitigated the kidney fibrotic process and alleviated renal function in a DKD mouse model. Conversely, upregulation of PFKFB3 expression aggravated renal fibrogenesis and promoted the deterioration of renal pathology. Moreover, it was demonstrated that the reduction in the levels of lactate levels markedly alleviated renal fibrosis in DKD. With regard to its mechanism of action, lactate was generated via PFKFB3‑driven glycolytic reprogramming and selectively enhanced H4K12 lactylation at the homeodomain‑interacting protein kinase 2 (HIPK2) promoter, thereby activating its transcription and driving renal fibrotic progression. These findings indicated that PFKFB3 in renal tubules upregulates HIPK2 expression via facilitating H4K12la‑dependent gene transcription. Therefore, intervention approaches targeting PFKFB3‑triggered HIPK2 activation in tubular cells may offer a novel therapeutic strategy for DKD.
Myasthenia gravis (MG) is a B-cell-mediated autoimmune disease characterized by impaired neuromuscular transmission. Although genetic predisposition and thymic abnormalities are well recognized, they cannot fully explain the increasing incidence and regional heterogeneity of MG, highlighting the potential contribution of environmental factors. Bisphenol A (BPA), a ubiquitous endocrine-disrupting chemical, exhibits estrogenic activity, immunomodulatory effects, and mitochondrial toxicity, and has been implicated in multiple autoimmune disorders. However, the potential role of BPA in MG pathogenesis remains largely unexplored.BPA-related targets and MG-associated genes were collected from public databases, and overlapping targets were identified. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses were performed to explore the biological functions and pathways of the overlapping targets. Candidate targets were screened using four machine-learning algorithms, including least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression, support vector machine-recursive feature elimination (SVM-RFE), random forest (RF), and extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost). Differential expression and diagnostic performance were validated using the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) dataset GSE85452. Immune infiltration was assessed using CIBERSORT. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations were conducted to evaluate the potential binding stability and interaction modes between BPA and key target proteins. In addition, C2C12 myoblasts were treated with different concentrations of BPA for 24 h, and cell viability was assessed using the Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay. Based on the cell viability results, 50 μM BPA was selected for quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and Western blot analyses of key genes.A total of 225 overlapping targets were identified between BPA exposure-related targets and MG-associated genes. Enrichment analyses showed that these targets were mainly associated with ion transport, membrane potential regulation, muscle system processes, immune signaling, apoptosis, endocrine resistance, and AGE-RAGE signaling pathways.Four machine-learning algorithms identified cholinergic receptor nicotinic beta 1 subunit (CHRNB1), KRAS proto-oncogene, GTPase (KRAS), phosphomannomutase 2 (PMM2), and toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) as candidate targets. Validation in the GSE85452 dataset showed that CHRNB1, PMM2, and TLR4 were significantly upregulated in MG samples compared with control samples, whereas KRAS showed no significant difference. receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis further demonstrated that CHRNB1, PMM2, and TLR4 had good diagnostic performance, with area under the ROC curve (AUC) values of 0.827, 0.856, and 0.821,respectively. Immune infiltration analysis revealed altered immune cell infiltration patterns and associations between key targets and specific immune cell subsets. Molecular docking predicted favorable binding of BPA to CHRNB1, PMM2, and TLR4, with binding energies of -7.4, -5.7, and -5.8 kcal/mol, respectively. MD simulations further supported the potential stability of these BPA-target complexes. In vitro experiments showed that BPA reduced C2C12 cell viability in a concentration-dependent manner. qRT-PCR validation showed that treatment with 50 μM BPA significantly upregulated Chrnb1 expression, while downregulating Pmm2 and Tlr4 expression.Western blot analysis further confirmed that BPA exposure significantly decreased the protein expression of TLR4 and PMM2, while increasing that of CHRNB1 in C2C12 cells.This study provides integrated computational and experimental evidence that BPA exposure may be associated with MG-related molecular alterations. BPA may affect MG-related biological processes through the regulation of ion transport, neuromuscular signaling, immune activation, and glycosylation-related metabolism. CHRNB1, PMM2, and TLR4 may serve as potential molecular links between BPA exposure and MG-related pathological processes.Copyright: © 2026 Wu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42386216 is a review article
Mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 7 (MAP3K7), also known as transforming growth factor-β-activated kinase 1 (TAK1), is a widely expressed kinase that plays a crucial role in various cellular processes variants in the MAP3K7 gene have been implicated in two distinct genetic disorders: frontometaphyseal dysplasia Type 2 (FMD2) and cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome (CSCF). To elucidate the consequences of the MAP3K7 variant, we investigated a Chinese family with CSCF harboring a novel heterozygous MAP3K7 variant and examined the genotype-phenotype correlation. Functional validation was performed using clinical evaluations, whole-exome sequencing (WES), and biochemical assays, including western blotting to assess TAK1 phosphorylation levels and downstream signaling pathways. Clinical data and genomic DNA were collected from the proband and family members. WES identified a novel heterozygous variant in MAP3K7 (NM_145331.3: c.149 T > C, p.Val50Ala) inherited from the affected mother. Sequence conservation analysis revealed that the Val50 residue is highly conserved among vertebrates and is critical for ATP binding. Protein 3D modeling predicted that the Val50Ala variant disrupts the kinase domain structure, potentially impairing TAK1 function. In vitro overexpression experiments in human embryonic kidney 293T (HEK293T) cells demonstrated that the Val50Ala variant significantly reduced TAK1 phosphorylation levels. Furthermore, this variant differentially affected downstream signaling molecules (p38, p65, and JNK) compared with variants causing FMD2. Notably, stimulation with transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) partially restored the altered phosphorylation patterns, suggesting a potential compensatory mechanism. Our study provides novel insights into the molecular pathogenesis of MAP3K7 variants associated with CSCF and FMD2. We demonstrate that the p.Val50Ala variant impairs TAK1 kinase activity and differentially affects downstream signaling pathways. These findings highlight the distinct molecular fingerprints of MAP3K7 variants causing CSCF versus FMD2 and underscore the importance of considering MAP3K7 variants in the differential diagnosis of syndromic congenital cardiac defects, recurrent infections, and global developmental delays. Our results also suggest that TGF-β signaling may offer a potential therapeutic target for modulating the effects of MAP3K7 variants.Copyright © 2026 Ting Zhu et al. Human Mutation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Endometrial cancer (EC) is one of the most prevalent cancers affecting the female reproductive system and originates from the uterine epithelium, posing a significant health burden to postmenopausal women. As an E3 ubiquitin ligase, itchy E3 ubiquitin protein ligase (ITCH) plays a key role in the progression of multiple kinds of solid cancers, but its function in EC remains unclear. This work aims to explore the roles of ITCH during the carcinogenesis of EC.The messenger RNA (mRNA) level of ITCH in 47 paired EC tissue and adjacent non-tumor controls was examined by quantitative polymerase chain reaction. The protein level of ITCH in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded EC tissue and adjacent non-tumor controls from 47 patients with EC was detected by immunohistochemistry. Data on the RNA levels of ITCH and forkhead box P1 (FOXP1), along with prognostic information for 541 patients with EC, were obtained from the Human Protein Atlas database. A chromatin immunoprecipitation assay was employed to investigate the interaction between FOXP1 and the promoter of the KRAS proto-oncogene GTPase (KRAS).Both ITCH mRNA and protein levels are upregulated in EC tissues. Patients with lower ITCH expression exhibit prolonged overall survival. In EC tissue samples, ITCH protein level negatively correlates with the FOXP1 protein level. ITCH interacts with FOXP1 in EC cells and promotes its ubiquitination and subsequent degradation. FOXP1 inhibits KRAS expression in EC cells by binding to its promoter region. ITCH overexpression suppresses the FOXP1-KRAS axis, leading to increased proliferation and reduced apoptosis of EC cells.ITCH functions as an oncogene in EC, promoting carcinogenesis by inducing FOXP1 degradation and upregulating KRAS expression.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Scientific Scholar.
Receptor-interacting serine/threonine kinase 2 (RIPK2) is an important modulator of the inflammatory response in many disease states, including ischemic stroke. Here, we utilized, for the first time, a proteolysis targeting chimera (PROTAC) to specifically degrade RIPK2 in vivo in a rodent model of ischemic stroke. First, we established a dose-response curve for RIPK2 degradation following treatment with the RIPK2 PROTAC in naïve mice. Then, we assessed the time course of RIPK2 degradation and resolution to determine our optimal dosing paradigm for the acute ischemic stroke study. Interestingly, we saw significant degradation in peripheral organs but not in the brain. Using the transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (tMCAO) model of ischemic stroke, we assessed the efficacy of RIPK2 PROTAC degradation as a potential therapeutic approach for ischemic stroke. While we did not see reductions in infarct volume, we did find significant improvements in behavioral outcomes using the open field test, weight grip test, vertical grid test, and neurological deficit scoring. This study adds to the literature supporting RIPK2 as an important mediator of the post-stroke inflammatory response and further demonstrates the importance of the peripheral immune response, specifically involving the spleen, in secondary injury after ischemic stroke.
Appendiceal cancer (AC) is a rare malignancy that often presents at advanced stages with significant histological variability influencing clinical outcomes. Precise genomic profiling is essential for accurate diagnosis and personalized patient management. This study interrogated DNA from appendiceal tumor tissue, buffy coat cells, and the cell-free DNA component of plasma using a 523-gene panel for comprehensive genomic profiling (CGP) to identify cancer-related genetic mutations in tumor and blood, evaluate tumor mutation burden, and determine genetic markers associated with histologic grade.A total of 73 patients provided blood samples comprising cell-free DNA (cfDNA) and germline buffy coat cells (bcDNA) for analysis compared with tumor tissues available from 56 of these patients. Concordance of mutations between matched tumor tissue and plasma samples (n = 51) was assessed and tumor-specific and germline variants were classified using OncoKB™ clinical criteria to delineate oncogenic and therapeutically actionable variants [level 1 mutations with U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved therapy]. Additionally, cfDNA concentrations were tested for association with clinical and pathologic features and oncologic outcome including disease-specific (DSS) and progression-free (PFS) survival.Circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) from plasma cell-free DNA demonstrated high concordance with tumor genomic profiling, reaching 98.4% concordance [median, interquartile range (IQR) 13.5, 21.5] overall and 85.7% (IQR 64.6, 100) for therapeutically actionable level 1 mutations. Prevalent appendiceal tumor-specific mutations included KRAS proto-oncogene, GTPase (KRAS) (41%), GNAS complex locus (GNAS) (30%), tumor protein p53 (TP53) (30%), and SMAD family member 4 (SMAD4) (29%). Tumor-specific TP53, SMAD4, and spectrin alpha, erythrocytic 1 (SPTA1) mutations strongly correlated with intermediate and high-grade histology, whereas GNAS mutations predominated in low-grade tumors. Germline analysis identified coding mutations shared among this patient cohort in notch receptor 4 (NOTCH4) (55%) and BRCA1 associated RING domain 1 (BARD1) (48%) genes, with zinc finger homeobox 3 (ZFHX3) (29%) and adhesion G protein-coupled receptor A2 (ADGRA2), DNA polymerase epsilon (POLE), and transcription factor 3 (TCF3) mutations (all = 23%) specifically enriched in intermediate and high-grade AC. Both histological grade and cfDNA stratified by concentration tertiles independently predicted progression-free and disease-specific survival. Plasma samples exhibited consistently lower variant allele frequencies than solid tumors, limiting sensitivity for discovery of novel mutations exclusively from plasma.This study supports integrating comprehensive ctDNA assays into standard diagnostic and treatment pathways for AC using large gene panels. TP53, SMAD4, SPTA1, and GNAS mutations serve as prospective tumor-specific molecular classifiers for histological grade, while germline variants in NOTCH4 and BARD1 may further influence disease biology, with ZFHX3, ADGRA2, POLE, and TCF3 affecting grade stratification. Overall cfDNA concentration may serve as a potential prognostic biomarker in AC.© 2026. Society of Surgical Oncology.
During the development of sepsis, aberrant dendritic cell (DC) pyroptosis results in a significant decrease in the numbers of DCs and immune dysfunction. However, the molecular mechanisms regulating DC pyroptosis in sepsis remain unclear. Emerging evidence indicates that RETREG1/FAM134B (reticulophagy regulator 1) is involved in the regulation of programmed cell death to maintain cell viability. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the potential role and regulatory pathways of RETREG1 in DC death during sepsis. We found that the upregulation of RETREG1 upon septic challenge was intimately associated with the maintenance of immune function. Depletion of RETREG1 in DC significantly aggravated DC pyroptosis and sepsis-induced immune dysfunction by activating the CASP3 (caspase 3)-GSDME (gasdermin E) signaling pathway. Mechanistically, defective RETREG1 expression inhibited autophagic degradation of the endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC), resulting in abnormal activation of STING1 (stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1), which further induced CASP3-GSDME-dependent pyroptosis. Genetic downregulation of Tmed9 prevented the activation of STING1 and GSDME-mediated pyroptosis by disturbing ERGIC structure. These results suggest a novel RETREG1-based protective mechanism against DC-mediated immune impairment during sepsis. Genetic or pharmacological modulation of RETREG1 May represent a promising therapeutic strategy for treating sepsis-induced immune suppression.Abbreviations: 7-AAD: 7-aminoactinomycin D; ANXA5/annexin V: annexin A5; ARF1: ARF GTPase 1; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; CALCOCO1: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 1; CASP1: caspase 1; cC3: cleaved CASP3; CCDC50: coiled-coil domain containing 50; CD274/PD-L1: CD274 molecule; CFSE: carboxyfluorescein diacetate succinimidyl ester; CGAS: cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; CLP: cecal ligation and puncture; DC: dendritic cell; DEGs: differentially expressed genes; DEPs: differently expressed proteins; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ERGIC: endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediate compartment; GO: Gene Ontology; GOLGA2/GM130: golgin A2; GSDMD: gasdermin D; GSDME: gasdermin E; GSEA: Gene set enrichment analysis; IFN-I: type I interferon; IKK: IκB kinase; IL2: interleukin 2; IRF3: interferon regulatory factor 3; ITGAX/Cd11c: integrin subunit alpha X; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; LMAN1/ERGIC53: lectin, mannose binding 1; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MAP3K7/TAK1: mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 7; NFKB/NFκB: nuclear factor kappa B; NLRP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; PBMCs: peripheral blood mononuclear cells; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PCD: programmed cell death; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; PRRs: pattern recognition receptors; PYCARD/ASC: PYD and CARD domain containing; RETREG1/FAM134B: reticulophagy regulator 1; SAMHD1: SAM and HD domain containing deoxynucleoside triphosphate triphosphohydrolase 1; SEC62: SEC62 preprotein translocation factor; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STEEP1: STING1 ER exit protein 1; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; TGFB/TGFβ: transforming growth factor beta; TMED9: transmembrane p24 trafficking protein 9; TLR4: toll like receptor 4; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; Tregs: regulatory T cells; VAP: VAMP associated protein.
Identifying oncogenic driver mutations in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and colorectal cancer (CRC) is critical for targeted therapies, requiring accurate and timely molecular testing.To compare turnaround time (TAT; days from order to results), quantity not sufficient (QNS) rate, and detection rates of National Comprehensive Cancer Network-recommended alterations in NSCLC (epidermal growth factor receptor [EGFR]; MET proto-oncogene, receptor tyrosine kinase [MET] exon 14 skipping; ROS proto-oncogene 1, receptor tyrosine kinase [ROS1]; ALK receptor tyrosine kinase [ALK]; ret proto-oncogene [RET]; erb-b2 receptor tyrosine kinase 2 [ERBB2] mutations; neurotrophic receptor tyrosine kinase 1, 2, and 3 [NTRK1/2/3]; B-Raf proto-oncogene, serine/threonine kinase [BRAF]; KRAS proto-oncogene, GTPase [KRAS] [G12C]) and CRC (RET; ERBB2 amplification; NTRK1/2/3; BRAF; KRAS; NRAS proto-oncogene, GTPase [NRAS]; microsatellite instability) using 3 testing algorithms: in-house single-gene panel (SGP; 5 of 9 NSCLC, 4 of 7 CRC alterations); ThermoFisher Oncomine Focus Assay (OFA; covers all NSCLC, 6 of 7 CRC alterations); and send-out next-generation sequencing (SO-NGS; all National Comprehensive Cancer Network alterations).Three hundred fourteen tumors (181 NSCLC, 133 CRC) were tested with SGP, 377 (239 NSCLC, 138 CRC) with OFA, and 238 (185 NSCLC, 53 CRC) with SO-NGS.NSCLC TATs were 7.6 days (SGP), 11.1 days (OFA), and 11.9 days (SO-NGS). QNS rates were 10.4% (SGP), 6.3% (OFA), and 11.9% (SO-NGS). Detection rates were 19.8% (SGP), 26.8% (OFA), and 29.4% (SO-NGS). For CRC, TATs were 6.0 days (SGP), 10.1 days (OFA), and 10.2 days (SO-NGS). QNS rates were 0.8% (SGP), 0.7% (OFA), and 7.5% (SO-NGS). Detection rates were 62.9% (SGP), 58.4% (OFA), and 56.5% (SO-NGS).SGP provides the fastest TAT but lower detection and higher QNS rates in NSCLC. OFA balances TAT, QNS, and detection, whereas SO-NGS offers comprehensive detection with longer TAT and higher QNS. An optimized assay combining SGP's speed, OFA's reliability, and SO-NGS's comprehensiveness could improve outcomes.
Protocatechuic acid (PCA), a natural compound found in a variety of Chinese herbal medicines and plant foods, has been documented to inhibit atherosclerosis partially by reducing inflammation burden in arterial endothelial cells. Interestingly, in vitro studies showed that PCA at physiologically reachable concentrations does not affect inflammation burden in TNF-α-stimulated aortic endothelial cells, whereas it increases the content of exosomal miR-10b secreted by macrophages that have engulfed apoptotic cells (efferocytic macrophages).This study was aimed at investigating whether the in vivo anti-inflammatory effect of PCA in arterial endothelial cells was due to the uptake of efferocytic macrophage exosomal miR-10b.A transwell co-culture system of aortic endothelial cells with efferocytic macrophages was used to evaluate the effect of PCA on NF-κB-mediated inflammation in aortic endothelial cells. An inhibitor of exosome secretion, GW4869, was applied to confirm the role of exosomes played in the anti-inflammatory effect of PCA. The aortic endothelial cells were administrated with exosomes isolated from PCA-treated efferocytic macrophages or miR-10b mimic or antagomir to ascertain the role of miR-10b in downregulating inflammation effect of PCA. Bioinformatics analyses, loss-of- and gain-of-function assays and luciferase reporter gene assays were performed to identify targeting relationship between miR-10b and mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 7 (MAP3K7)/β-transducin repeat-containing protein (β-TrCP). Besides, Apoe-/- mice with advanced atherosclerotic plaques were subjected to intragastric administration of PCA and intraperitoneal injection of GW4869. The miR-10b/MAP3K7/β-TrCP/NF-κB signaling pathways and inflammation indicators were determined in vivo.PCA at physiologically reachable concentrations inhibited NF-κB-mediated inflammation in TNF-α-stimulated aortic endothelial cells co-cultured with efferocytic macrophages, in which treatment of GW4869 reversed this effect. Exosomes isolated from PCA-treated efferocytic macrophages inhibited inflammation and increased miR-10b levels in aortic endothelial cells. Mechanistically, exosomal miR-10b post-transcriptionally repressed MAP3K7 and β-TrCP, both of which promote NF-κB activation. Knockdown of Map3k7 and Btrc with siRNA in aortic endothelial cells abolished the inhibitory effects of exosomes isolated from PCA-treated efferocytic macrophages on NF-κB-mediated inflammation. Consistently, oral administration of PCA increased miR-10b level and inhibited Map3k7 and Btrc mRNA expression as well as inflammation in aortic endothelial cells in Apoe-/- mice, all of which were abrogated by GW4869 co-treatment.Our current findings suggest that PCA could transfer exosomal miR-10b from efferocytic macrophages to endothelial cells and thus inhibit NF-κB-mediated inflammation in arterial endothelial cells through repressing MAP3K7 and β-TrCP, two new targets of miR-10b.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Systemic sclerosis is an autoimmune fibrotic skin disease characterised by immune activation and fibrosis. Fibroblasts are at the core of this fibrotic process, differentiating into effector myofibroblasts; however, the drivers of this process remain obscure. Recently, metabolic changes in cells in fibrotic diseases have been uncovered, with changes in the TCA cycle and glycolysis being observed.The objective of this work was to elucidate the role of the glycolytic enzyme pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) in systemic sclerosis.Serum from early diffuse systemic sclerosis (SSc) patients and healthy controls (HC) was collected for PKM2 analysis by ELISA. Fibroblasts were isolated from HC and SSc biopsies and treated with transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) to assess PKM2 expression. PKM2 was pharmacologically modulated, and collagen and Extracellular Matrix (ECM) regulators were evaluated. Metabolic activity was assessed using Seahorse assays, and lactate transport was chemically inhibited. Chromatin immunoprecipitation was performed using a histone lactylation-specific or isotype antibody, and lactate or acetate supplementation experiments were conducted.We found significantly elevated circulating and fibroblast PKM2 in SSc patients. Fibroblast PKM2 could be induced in healthy fibroblasts by TGF-β1 exposure. Furthermore, PKM2 drives a metabolic shift to glycolysis that can be blocked by forced tetramerisation of PKM2 from its dimeric form; this resulted in reduced ECM and matrix regulators. Mechanistically, PKM2-mediated glycolysis results in elevated lactate, which drives collagen via epigenetic regulation by histone H3K18 lactylation. Blockade of PKM2 dimerisation reduced Histone H3 at Lysine 18 (H3K18) lactylation at the collagen promoter, which could be restored with lactate but not acetate. We further demonstrated that lactate-induced collagen is partially mediated by HIF-1α.PKM2 drives activation of fibroblasts in SSc via metabolic changes such as glycolysis. Taking advantage of PKM2 tetramerisation or blockade of lactate generation could be a possible therapeutic option in a disease with few treatment options.Copyright © 2026 Steadman and O’Reilly.
CD30 positivity serves as a critical diagnostic hallmark for anaplastic lymphoma kinase positive anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALK+ ALCL); however, rare cases with partial or complete loss of CD30 expression present diagnostic challenges. We report a unique case with two morphologically and immunophenotypically distinct subpopulations within the same tumor: A typical CD30-positive component and a CD30-negative counterpart. Comparative genetic analysis revealed overlapping but divergent molecular features, including nucleophosmin 1-ALK (NPM1-ALK) fusion, notch receptor 1 mutations, and differential gene amplifications involving MYC proto-oncogene and BCL2-like 1. These findings offer insights into the regulatory mechanisms of CD30 and highlight that loss of CD30 expression alone should not preclude the diagnosis of ALK-positive ALCL, underscoring the importance of integrated histopathological and molecular evaluation in diagnostically challenging cases. Meanwhile, it provides a basis for optimizing the diagnostic process of clinically suspected cases.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Scientific Scholar.
Early T-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ETP-ALL) is a high-risk subtype of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL). Aberrant CD19 expression in ETP-ALL may lead to misdiagnosis of mixed-phenotype acute leukemia. Notably, nucleophosmin 1 (NPM1) mutations, an established molecular hallmark of acute myeloid leukemia (AML), are extremely rare in T-ALL.We present the case of a 29-year-old male with progressive right retroauricular and cervical lymphadenopathies complicated by severe febrile neutropenia and polymicrobial sepsis. Peripheral blood testing revealed 80% blasts. Bone marrow flow cytometry demonstrated blasts strongly positive for cytoplasmic CD3 and CD7, with aberrant CD19 expression and co-expression of CD34, CD33, and dim cytoplasmic CD79a. The blasts showed dim CD5 expression but were negative for CD1a, CD8, CD10, CD22, and myeloperoxidase, consistent with an ETP-ALL immunophenotype. Next-generation sequencing identified an NPM1 frameshift mutation (p.W288Cfs*12, Type A) and an internal tandem duplication of the Fms-like tyrosine kinase 3 gene (FLT3-ITD), both classic AML-associated mutations. After management of severe sepsis, the patient received three cycles of VHAG (venetoclax, homoharringtonine, cytarabine, and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor)-based chemotherapy followed by haploidentical allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT). He remained in sustained complete remission at the 7-month follow-up after allo-HSCT.To our knowledge, this case represents the first reported ETP-ALL with an NPM1 frameshift mutation (p.W288Cfs*12, Type A), which also exhibited aberrant CD19 expression, highlighting the diagnostic challenges posed by unusual immunophenotypic and genomic profiles.Copyright © 2026 Lu, Chen, Zhang and Wu.
Growth factor release from dentin and subsequent cellular response are critical in endodontic regeneration procedures. This study evaluated the effects of Nd: YAG (1064 nm) and diode lasers (980 nm, 635 nm) at varying energy densities on dentin morphology, Transforming Growth Factor-beta 1 release, and the biological response of stem cells to promote pulp regeneration in immature permanent teeth. Dentin blocks from extracted human teeth were treated with 1.5% NaOCl followed by pulsed Nd: YAG or continuous-wave diode lasers (average energy densities of 24, 60 and 120 J/cm2). Controls included 1.5% NaOCl/17% EDTA group and untreated samples. TGF-β1 release was quantified via ELISA. Cell viability (24-72 h), alkaline phosphatase activity (7 days), and surface morphology were assessed. One-way or two-way ANOVA with post-hoc tests were applied (p < 0.05). SEM analysis revealed that all lasers partially disrupted the smear layer and increased surface roughness, while SHED cells on laser-treated dentin showed flattened morphology with extended filopodia, indicating favorable cell-surface interactions. All laser groups significantly increased TGF-β1 release compared to the negative control (p < 0.05), with Nd: YAG at 60 J/cm² producing the highest levels, exceeding even the positive control (p < 0.05). Laser-treated specimens were non-cytotoxic and significantly increased ALP activity compared to the negative control (p < 0.001), with Nd: YAG at 60 J/cm² showing the highest activity, statistically higher than the NaOCl/EDTA positive control (p < 0.05). Low to moderate energy Nd: YAG and diode lasers enhanced TGF-β1 release and ALP activity without cytotoxicity, matching or exceeding EDTA treatment. Thus, laser-assisted dentin conditioning is a promising adjunctive strategy for regenerative endodontics.© 2026. The Author(s).
Liver cancer is the fourth leading cause of global cancer mortality, with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounting for most primary liver cancers. The nucleolus, as the primary site of ribosome biogenesis, plays a crucial role in HCC development. Here, we report that the nucleolar protein KRR1 interacting protein (KRI1) is aberrantly overexpressed in HCC tissues and interacts with nucleophosmin 1 (NPM1) via phase separation to maintain nucleolar structure and ribosome biogenesis. Downregulation of KRI1 significantly impairs HCC cell proliferation and increases apoptosis, accompanied by disrupted nucleolar structure and ribosome biogenesis. Moreover, we show that KRI1 phase separation is enhanced by the phosphorylation of three serine residues (S94, S95, and S97) in its N-terminal intrinsically disordered region, and pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) is identified as the key kinase. PKM2 inhibitor shikonin markedly attenuates KRI1 phase separation and its interaction with NPM1, disrupts nucleolar structure and ribosome biogenesis, thereby inhibiting HCC progression. This study uncovers the crucial role of KRI1 in HCC progression and provides theoretical and experimental evidence for the development of nucleolar protein-targeted therapeutic strategies for HCC treatment.
Nucleophosmin 1 (NPM1) is a multifunctional nucleolar protein whose oligomeric assembly is essential for its cellular functions and is implicated in human malignancies, including acute myeloid leukemia. Targeting protein-protein interaction interfaces such as the NPM1 oligomerization surface remains challenging due to their shallow and extended structural features. Here, we combined knowledge-based in silico fragment mapping with structure-based virtual screening to identify small molecules targeting the NPM1 oligomerization interface. Fragment mapping revealed recurrent aromatic and hydrogen-bonding features within surface grooves, which were used to construct three-dimensional pharmacophore models. A multistep workflow integrating pharmacophore filtering and molecular docking enabled prioritization of candidate compounds. Experimental validation using a split Renilla luciferase complementation assay identified STK947495 as a compound that reproducibly reduced NPM1-dependent luminescence in a concentration-dependent manner. Biochemical analysis further showed an increase in monomeric species under non-boiled SDS-PAGE conditions, consistent with disruption of oligomeric assembly. Although the observed activity was modest, these results provide experimental evidence that the NPM1 oligomerization interface is amenable to small-molecule modulation. More broadly, this study demonstrates that fragment mapping-guided virtual screening is a practical strategy for identifying ligands targeting protein-protein interaction interfaces.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Naturally occurring isoforms of the proto-oncogene Erb-B2 Receptor Tyrosine Kinase 2 (ERBB2, HER2) incite unique pathways of tumor progression in mouse models of breast cancer. Although each isoform has been shown to progress to metastasis, the N-terminally truncated isoform (p95) was previously shown to be biased toward early distant dissemination prior to detection. Here we show how HER2 isoforms differentially promote go-or-grow phenotypes through biased utilization of tyrosine autophosphorylation sites in the intracellular tail of HER2. Fluorescently barcoded humanized full-length HER2 (WT), exon-16 splice HER2 isoform (d16), and p95 expressing tumor cell lines were derived from HER2 Crainbow mice, then utilized for a series of functional assays including proliferation, tumor growth rate, cell motility, collective cell migration, cellular morphology, and invasive potential. Quantitative analysis reveals biased tumor cell behaviors across each genotype. WT tumor cells are biased toward proliferation and collective migration, d16 cells are biased toward proliferation and individual motility, and p95 tumor cells are biased toward individual motility and invasion. Single cell analysis reveals a myogenic-like state transition in p95 cells accompanied by an increased nuclear translocation of the Myocardin Related Transcription Factor A (MRTFA). MRTFA knockdown, as well as knockdown of a downstream effector, Transforming growth factor beta 1 induced transcript 1 (TGFB1I1), both inhibit the p95 invasive phenotype. Furthermore, intracellular residue tyrosine 1139 (Y1139) is necessary for MRTFA translocation, and when edited in p95 cells (Y1139F) invasion and motility phenotypes are subsequently lost. Our data illustrate the importance of functionally selective signaling in HER2 and highlight the need for therapeutics that intercept metastasis by targeting HER2 biased signaling.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) harboring a FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 internal tandem duplication (FLT3-ITD) mutation is characterized by a more aggressive clinical course, a higher likelihood of disease recurrence, and inferior survival outcomes. The introduction of targeted agents such as gilteritinib has expanded therapeutic options for patients with FLT3-mutated AML; however, the spectrum of rare treatment-related toxicities remains incompletely defined. We describe a case of profound hypertriglyceridemia that developed during treatment with a combination of azacitidine, venetoclax, and gilteritinib. A 52-year-old man presented with constitutional symptoms, marked leukocytosis, splenomegaly, and bone marrow findings consistent with AML exhibiting monocytic differentiation. Molecular analysis identified coexisting FLT3-ITD, nucleophosmin 1 (NPM1), and DNA methyltransferase 3A (DNMT3A) mutations. Owing to concomitant fungal pneumonia and unsuitability for intensive induction chemotherapy, he was treated with a modified regimen comprising azacitidine, venetoclax, and gilteritinib. The patient's baseline lipid profile was within normal limits. Following two cycles of induction therapy, a bone marrow aspirate was done. Serum triglyceride levels were found to be severely elevated at 6,964 mg/dL. Given the patient's prior episode of pancreatitis, this abnormality was considered clinically significant. Gilteritinib, venetoclax, and isavuconazole were discontinued, and lipid-lowering therapy with rosuvastatin and fenofibrate was commenced. Triglyceride concentrations progressively declined and returned to near-normal levels within one month. This report draws attention to a potentially serious and insufficiently recognized metabolic complication associated with FLT3 inhibitor-based combination therapy. It also underscores the importance of routine lipid surveillance, particularly in patients receiving concomitant azole antifungal agents.Copyright © 2026, Vuppumalla et al.
Hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) and macrophages are key regulators of liver fibrosis, yet their direct communication during fibrogenesis remains incompletely characterized. We showed that genetic deletion of folate receptor beta (Folr2) significantly attenuated experimental liver fibrosis in mice. In both human and murine fibrotic livers, FOLR2+ macrophages are frequently juxtaposed with activated HSCs. Functionally, FOLR2 expressed by reparative, but not M1 or scar-associated, macrophages promotes HSC activation in a contact-dependent manner. Mechanistically, FOLR2 binds to transforming growth factor beta receptor II (TGFβRII) on HSCs, sustaining transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-β1) signaling and driving fibrogenesis. Finally, the natural compound fraxinellone targets FOLR2, disrupts its interaction with TGFβRII, and attenuates HSC activation and liver fibrosis. These findings identify the FOLR2-TGFβRII intercellular interaction as a critical mediator of macrophage-HSC crosstalk and highlight its disruption as a promising therapeutic strategy against liver fibrosis.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563692 is a review article
Corneal allograft rejection remains a leading cause of graft failure. Mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles (MSC-EVs) may provide new options for modulating the immune response to allografts.This study aimed to determine whether miR-146a-enriched EVs could prolong corneal allograft survival by modulating local and systemic immune responses.After corneal allografting from C57BL/6 to BALB/c mice, recipients received subconjunctival injections of PBS, miR-NC-EVs, or miR-146a-EVs isolated from human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (hUCSCs). Local inflammatory and regulatory factors in ocular tissues were assessed using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) to quantify the expression of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, and forkhead box protein 3 (Foxp3). Systemic cytokine profiles were assessed in recipient sera using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to measure interferon (IFN)-γ, interleukin (IL)-17, IL-10, and transforming growth factor (TGF)-β.Clinical rejection scores were markedly reduced, with significant improvements in opacity, edema, and neovascularization. RT-PCR analysis of corneal tissue showed miR-146a overexpression, downregulation of IRAK1 and TRAF6, a significant reduction in TNF-α mRNA, and increased Foxp3 expression. ELISA analysis of systemic IFN-γ and IL-17 showed that treatment with miR-146a-EVs resulted in lower systemic IFN-γ and IL-17 levels and significantly higher levels of the anti-inflammatory cytokines, IL-10 and TGF-β.This study identifies miR-146a-EVs as a novel cell-free therapy that effectively prolongs corneal transplant survival. The treatment exerts dual immunomodulatory effects by regulating local inflammatory pathways and shifting systemic cytokine profiles toward an anti-inflammatory state, thereby offering a targeted strategy to prevent transplant rejection.Copyright © 2026, He.
Ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) significantly impacts post-kidney transplantation (KTx), leading to delayed graft function (DGF) and potential graft loss. Current biomarkers and therapies for DGF and graft survival are inadequate. Immune cell infiltration after renal IRI is crucial in driving inflammation and injury.To address this, this study utilized microarray and RNA-seq datasets from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database to identify differentially expressed immune infiltration-related genes (DE-IRGs) in IRI patients. Machine learning (ML) algorithms pinpointed hub DE-IRGs, aiding in predictive model development and classification of post-KTx IRI samples into clusters and risk groups. Regulatory networks incorporating transcription factors (TFs) and microRNAs (miRNAs) were constructed using NetworkAnalyst 3.0, and predicted compounds/commonly used immunosuppressants were explored via Enrichr and molecular docking simulations.Analysis revealed 47 DE-IRGs, with hub genes (adrenomedullin [ADM], Serpin Family H Member 1 [SERPINH1], Solute carrier family 2 member 3 [SLC2A3], BCL-2-associated athanogene 3 [BAG3], NFKB inhibitor alpha [NFKBIA], Kruppel-like factor 6 [KLF6], and CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein delta [CEBPD]) linked to DGF and, in part, graft survival. Predictive models showed robust performance based on internal validation, with the DGF models achieving AUCs of 0.832 and 0.975 and graft survival models showing AUCs of 0.773, 0.742, and 0.757 for 1, 2, and 3 years, respectively. Higher immune cell infiltration correlated with adverse outcomes in cluster A or high-risk groups. Key immune cells associated with DGF included activated CD8 T cells, activated dendritic cells (DCs), and effector memory CD4 T cells. Core regulatory TFs and miRNAs were identified, along with four core predicted compounds: acetaminophen, estradiol, valproic acid, and berbamine (which require further pharmacological validation), and three common immunosuppressants: cyclosporin A, mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), and tacrolimus.Our study identified potential hub genes most associated with immune cells during the post-KTx IRI process, shedding light on the intricate interplay between genes, immune cells, and KTx outcomes.Copyright © 2026 Yifei Zhang et al. Mediators of Inflammation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
WNT2B is canonically characterized as a secreted WNT-family ligand, which is transported to the extracellular space via the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-Golgi pathway and binds to cell surface FZDs (frizzled class receptors) to trigger downstream signaling cascades. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized non-secretory intracellular function of WNT2B in impairing endosomal trafficking to inhibit macroautophagy/autophagy, as well as a non-canonical LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion mechanism for WNT2B. Specifically, the non-secretory intracellular pool of WNT2B via its conserved middle domain (MD) binds to the spectrin repeat domain (SRD) of WASHC5, competitively displacing WASHC1 and thereby disrupting WASH complex assembly and inhibiting WASHC1-mediated actin polymerization on early endosomes. This disruption impairs endosomal cargo trafficking, including the core autophagy protein ATG9A, leading to defective autophagy initiation and subsequent accumulation of pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic factors in fibroblasts. We validated this mechanism in vivo using a TNBS-induced mouse model of chronic colitis. Fibroblast-specific wnt2b deletion restores autophagy, reduces pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion, and ameliorates intestinal fibrosis. Consistently, in Crohn disease (CD) patient tissues, elevated WNT2B in fibrotic regions negatively correlates with autophagy activity, and positively correlates with pro-fibrotic phenotypes, and clinical disease severity. Moreover, we identify a novel LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion pathway for WNT2B, which is distinct from the conventional ER-to-Golgi-dependent protein secretion. Collectively, our study delineates a novel non-canonical WNT2B-WASH complex-ATG9A regulatory axis through which WNT2B impairs endosomal trafficking and disrupts autophagy, ultimately amplifying inflammation and fibrosis. This study suggests that WNT2B may serve as a promising therapeutic target for CD and autophagy-associated fibrotic disorders.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; AAV: adeno-associated virus; ACTA2: actin alpha 2, smooth muscle; ARPC2: actin related protein 2/3 complex subunit 2; ATG: autophagy related; CCN3: cellular communication network factor 3; CD: Crohn disease; CK666: 2-fluoro-N-[2-(2-methyl-1H-indol-3-yl)ethyl]benzamide; COL1A1: collagen type I alpha 1 chain; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CTNNB1: catenin beta 1; DBcAMP: dibutyryl cyclic adenosine monophosphate; DPT: dermatopontin; EEA1: early endosome antigen 1; EGFR: epidermal growth factor receptor; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complexes required for transport; EV: extracellular vesicle; FRAP: fluorescence recovery after photobleaching; FL: full length; FZD: frizzled class receptor; GST: glutathione S-transferase; HIF: human intestinal fibroblast; HMGB1: high mobility group box 1; IKBKB: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit beta; IL6: interleukin 6; LDELS: LC3-dependent EV loading and secretion; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MD: middle domain; MEFs: mouse embryonic fibroblasts; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MVB: multivesicular body; NFKB: nuclear factor kappa B; NFKBIA: NFKB inhibitor alpha; PDCD6IP: programmed cell death 6 interacting protein; PLA: proximity ligation assay; RELA/p65: RELA proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; SAFB: scaffold attachment factor B; SES-CD: Simple Endoscopic Score for Crohn disease; SIM: super-resolution structured illumination microscopy; SMAD3: SMAD family member 3; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; SRD: spectrin repeat domain; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TFRC: transferrin receptor; TGFB1: transforming growth factor beta 1; TGOLN2: trans-golgi network protein 2; TNBS: 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; VCA: Verprolin homology, Central and Acidic; WASHC: WASH complex subunit; WLS: Wnt ligand secretion mediator; WCL: whole cell lysates; WNT: Wnt family member; WT, wild type.
Ischemic stroke triggers a strong neuroinflammatory response involving cytokines, which are fundamentally involved in tissue damage and repair.The present study was designed to investigate the therapeutic potential of miR-146a-enriched extracellular vesicles derived from bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSC-EVs) in a rat model of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO).miR-146a was transfected into BMSCs using Lipofectamine 3000. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) were isolated from transfected BMSCs using ultracentrifugation. Thirty rats were randomly assigned to three groups (n = 10 per group): (1) Control (received FBS), (2) miR-control EVs (miR-NC), and (3) miR-146a-enriched EVs, administered intravenously post-ischemia. Neurological deficits were evaluated with the Bederson score, and cytokine levels, including tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interferon-γ (IFN-γ), interleukin (IL)-6, IL-10, as well as transforming growth factor β (TGF-β), were measured in splenocyte culture and brain tissues using enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA) and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), respectively. The expression of Interleukin-1 Receptor-Associated Kinase 1 (IRAK1), Tumor Necrosis Factor Receptor-Associated Factor 6 (TRAF6), and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) was also measured using RT-PCR.Results showed that EVs enriched in miR-146a significantly decreased pro-inflammatory cytokines, TNF-α, IFN-γ, and IL-6, and increased anti-inflammatory markers, IL-10 and TGF-β, when compared with miR-control EVs and FBS-treated groups. miR-146a-EV-treated rats also displayed better Bederson scores, which reflected better neurological recovery. Results also demonstrated that miR-146a-enriched EVs downregulated IRAK1, TRAF6, and NF-κB signaling in ischemic brain tissue.These results indicate that miR-146a overexpression in BMSC-EVs can significantly inhibit neuroinflammation and promote functional improvement in ischemic stroke models, supporting its targeted therapeutic potential.Copyright © 2026, Hao and Gong.
Influenza A virus (IAV) is an important zoonotic pathogen responsible for substantial respiratory morbidity and mortality. Elucidating the mechanisms by which IAV evades host innate immunity is critical for developing novel antiviral strategies. Although the IAV non-structural protein 2 (NS2) is well-characterized for the export of viral ribonucleoproteins (vRNPs) from the host cell nucleus, the function of NS2 in evading host innate immunity, especially the NFKB/NF-κB (nuclear factor kappa B) signaling pathway, remains poorly understood. The present study uncovered that NS2 is a novel viral inhibitor of the NFKB pathway. Mechanistically, NS2 interacted with and mediated the degradation of the NFKB essential modulator (IKBKG/NEMO), thereby suppressing downstream signal transduction. The macroautophagy/autophagy receptor OPTN (optineurin) was exploited by NS2 to mediate the selective autophagic degradation. Furthermore, the K72 residue was critical for the NS2-mediated degradation of IKBKG/NEMO, as the K72R substitution in NS2 disrupted the IKBKG/NEMO-NS2 interaction and abrogated the autophagic degradation. In addition, NS2K72R mutant virus displayed less viral load and milder pathogenicity in mice. In conclusion, these findings highlighted the novel biological function of IAV NS2 in exploiting selective autophagy to evade host defenses, and offered a potential target for controlling IAV infections.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; AIV: avian influenza virus; ATG7: autophagy related 7; CALCOCO2/NDP52: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; CHX: cycloheximide; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CHUK/IKKα: component of inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase complex; DAPI: 4', 6-diamidino-2-phenylindole, dihydrochloride; dsRNA: double-stranded RNA; dpi: days post-infection; EID50: 50% egg infective dose; GAPDH: glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; GFP: green fluorescent protein; hpi: hours post-infection; IAV: influenza A virus; IFN: interferon; IKBKB/IKKβ: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit beta; IFNG: interferon gamma; IKBKG/NEMO: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit gamma; IKK: IκB kinase; IP: immunoprecipitation; IRF3: interferon regulatory factor 3; IRF7: interferon regulatory factor 7; LAMP1: lysosome associated membrane protein 1; LIR: LC3-interacting region; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MAP3K14/NIK: mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 14; MAVS: mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein; MLD50: 50% mouse lethal dose; MOI: multiplicity of infection; MRV/Sendai virus: murine respirovirus; NBR1: NBR1 autophagy cargo receptor; NEP: nuclear export protein; NFKB/NF-κB: nuclear factor kappa B; NFKB2/p100: nuclear factor kappa B subunit 2; NFKBIA/IκBα: NFK inhibitor alpha; NP: nucleoprotein; NS1: non-structural protein 1; OPTN: optineurin; PB1: basic polymerase 1; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; poly(I:C): polyriboinosinic polyribocytidylic acid; PRRs: pattern recognition receptors; RELA/p65: RELA proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; RELB: RELB proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; RIGI: RNA sensor RIG-I; RIGI-IN: RIGI-CARD; RLR: RIGI-like-receptor; SARS-CoV-2: severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2; SIM: SUMO-interacting motif; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; TRAF6: TNF receptor associated factor 6; TOLLIP: toll interacting protein; Vec: empty vector; vRNP: viral ribonucleoprotein.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) is emerging as a leading cause of chronic liver disease. MTOR (mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase) complex 1 (MTORC1) is a potential therapeutic target, whereas suppression of total MTORC1 activity can lead to unwanted effects. Here, we found that byakangelicin (Bya), a natural compound, selectively inhibited MTORC1-mediated phosphorylation of TFEB (transcription factor EB), without affecting canonical MTORC1 substrates. Knockout of hepatic Tfeb blocked the alleviation effects of Bya on hepatic steatosis, inflammation, insulin resistance, and fibrosis in mice, while reintroduction of TFEB restored these effects. We identified Bya directly bound to MET370 and PHE552 of FLCN (folliculin), suppressing the function of the FLCN-FNIP1 (folliculin interacting protein 1)/FNIP2 complex, which in turn inhibited MTORC1-mediated cytoplasmic sequestration of TFEB. Mutation of FLCN (M370A and F552A) in the liver abolished Bya-induced protection against MASH. Thus, Bya is a promising therapeutic natural compound for MASH, and selective inhibition of MTORC1 is a potential approach to treat this disease.Abbreviations: aa, amino acids; AAV, adeno-associated virus; Bio, biotin; Bio-Bya, biotin-conjugated Bya; BSA, bovine serum albumin; BW, body weight; Bya, byakangelicin; CETSA, cellular thermal shift assay; CHIP-atlas, chromatin immunoprecipitation atlas; Cmax, maximum concentration; CQ, chloroquine; DARTS; drug affinity responsive target stability assay; EIF4EBP1/4E-BP1, eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; FBS, fetal bovine serum; FDA, food and drug administration; FIMO-JASPAR, find individual motif occurrences-JASPAR; FLCN, folliculin; FNIP1, folliculin interacting protein 1; GAP, GTPase-activating protein; GOT1/AST, glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1; GPT/ALT, glutamic-pyruvic transaminase; GTRD, gene transcription regulatory database; GTT, glucose tolerance test; H&E, hematoxylin and eosin; Hbonds, hydrogen bonds; HFD, high-fat diet; HFHC, high-fat and high-cholesterol; HOMA-IR, homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance; HSCs, hepatic stellate cells; IP, immunoprecipitation; ITT, insulin tolerance test; KD, dissociation constant; KEGG, kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes; KPBS, potassium phosphate-buffered saline; LC-MS/MS, liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry; LW/BW, liver-to-body weight ratio; MAP1LC3/LC3, microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MASH, metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis; MASLD, metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease; MCD, methionine and choline deficient; MST, microscale thermophoresis assay; MTOR, mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MTORC1, MTOR complex 1; ND, normal diet; NFKB/NF-κB, nuclear factor kappa B; NFKBIA/IKBA, NFKB inhibitor alpha; OP, oleate acid and palmitate acid; PBS, phosphate-buffered saline; PCA, principal component analysis; qRT-PCR, real-time quantitative PCR; RELA/p65, RELA proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; Res, resmetirom; Rg, radius of gyration; RMSD, root-mean-square deviation; RMSF, root-mean-square fluctuation; RPS3, ribosomal protein S3; RPS6KB1/S6K1, ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1; RRAGC, ras related GTP binding C; SASA, solvent-accessible surface area; SNRPD2, small nuclear ribonucleoprotein D2 polypeptide; SQSTM1/p62, sequestosome 1; T1/2, half-life; TFE3, transcription factor binding to IGHM enhancer 3; TFEB, transcription factor EB; TMEM192, transmembrane protein 192; VIM, vimentin; WT, wild-type.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42146949 is a review article
To analyze the immune biomarkers, pathogenesis, level of immune infiltration, and anti-Alzheimer's disease (AD) potential of geniposide in immune-related AD. The expression profiles of the GSE132903 dataset were downloaded from the gene expression omnibus (GEO) database to obtain differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in AD, while immune-related genes (IRGs) were obtained from the ImmPortal database, and these genes were intersected to obtain immune differential genes. These genes were intersected to obtain immune differential genes, which were subsequently enriched for further analysis. With the help of protein-protein interaction (PPI) network and cytoHubba analysis, the key immune differential genes were screened out, and the characteristic biomarkers were further identified and screened by the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression model and SVM-RFE algorithm. The (receiver operating characteristic) ROC curve was validated in the validation group of GSE5281 microarray and the area under the ROC curve value was used to evaluate the diagnostic and therapeutic values. The CIBERSORT algorithm was used to analyze the pattern of immune cell infiltration and the association between immune cells and characteristic biomarkers. Finally, geniposide was subjected to molecular docking and molecular dynamic simulations with core characterized genes to predict its anti-AD potential. In total, 345 DEGs were identified and 18 AD immune-related differential genes were identified by intersecting immune-related genes, which were involved in multiple signaling pathways, cellular components, molecular functions, and pathways. Five characterized genes were identified using integrated machine learning, including glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), VGF Nerve Growth Factor Inducible (VGF), Neuropeptide Y (NPY), Cholecystokinin (CCK), and NFKB Inhibitor Alpha (NFKBIA). The ROC curve validation results were as expected. Immune cell infiltration analysis revealed that multiple immune cells were associated with the characterized genes. Molecular docking and molecular dynamic simulations showed good binding activity and stability between geniposide and the key characterized targets. Characteristic biomarkers of AD were screened using various methods, and the biological processes and signaling pathways related to AD were identified by enrichment analysis, which elucidated immune-related mechanisms. In addition, geniposide may have binding affinity for key target proteins involved in the pathogenesis of AD, suggesting its potential as a candidate worthy of further investigation. And this study provides a new approach to the pathogenesis and targeted therapy for AD.© 2025 the author(s), published by De Gruyter, Berlin/Boston.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41851104
Skipped: PubMed ID 42481880 is a review article
E1A-binding protein (p300)/CREB-binding protein (CBP) bromodomains represent attractive therapeutic targets for anticancer drug development. Herein, we describe a structure-guided optimization of the lead compound UMB298 through a conformationally constrained cyclization strategy. A concise four-step synthesis (overall yield >30%), centered on a three-component reaction, was developed, enabling efficient construction of a lactam-containing imidazo[1,2-a]pyridine library for rapid screening. Among these compounds, CZL-105 emerges as a promising p300/CBP bromodomain inhibitor. It exhibits potent activity against p300 and CBP while sparing BET and demonstrates strong antiproliferative potency in OPM-2 multiple myeloma cells. Acceptable metabolic stability and pharmacokinetics support once-daily oral dosing, leading to significant tumor growth inhibition (TGI = 61%) in an OPM-2 xenograft model. These results position CZL-105 as a promising lead compound for further development. This work combines a rational design strategy and efficient chemical synthesis, accelerating the discovery of novel p300/CBP bromodomain inhibitors.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42463562 is a review article
Tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα) was connected to disease progression in breast cancer, through the activation of TNFR1 and, to some extent also of TNFR2, in cancer cells and/or in immune cells. We found that in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) patients, TNFR2 expression by the cancer cells was significantly connected to improved survival. By setting up an 8-cell system including TNBC cells infected to express combinations of TNFR1 with WT-TNFR2/TNFR2 variants, we determined cell responses to soluble TNFα (sTNFα), presented as recombinant human TNFα. We found that sTNFα-induced activation of TNFR1 gave rise to p65/p38 activation, elevated spontaneous tumor cell migration, greater directed invasion, and increased expression of pro-metastatic molecules (CXCL8, ICAM-1); lower levels of these functions were induced by sTNFα in WT-TNFR2-expressing cells. In TNFR1 knocked-out cells, the above sTNFα-induced functions were reduced by a M196R-SNP-TNFR2 variant (termed SNP-TNFR2). Also, the membrane form of TNFα (mTNFα) gave rise to a pronounced inhibition of sTNFα-induced p65 activation, tumor cell invasion, CXCL8 and ICAM1 expression in cells expressing TNFR1 + TNFR2 (WT-TNFR2/SNP-TNFR2), only TNFR2 (WT-TNFR2/SNP-TNFR2) and only TNFR1. In cells expressing only TNFR1, ERK1/2 activation was negatively correlated with sTNFα-induced p65 activation, and mTNFα expression has given rise to down-regulation of TNF receptor-associated factor 2 (TRAF2) expression alongside down-regulation of p65 activation. These findings provide novel insights into the roles of TNFR2 and mTNFα in cancer, suggesting that their potentially protective roles against tumor progression need be taken into account when TNFα-TNFR-directed therapies are considered in TNBC and in other malignancies as well.© 2026. The Author(s).
Protocatechuic acid (PCA) is both a prominent gut microbiota-derived metabolite of anthocyanins and a naturally occurring phenolic acid presents in various edible plants. Although this compound has been reported to exert cytotoxic effects at millimolar concentrations in vitro, its plasma levels following dietary intake are limited to the non-toxic nano-to micromolar range. Here, we identify the adaptor protein TNF Receptor Associated Factor 2 (TRAF2) as a direct molecular target of this phenolic compound. By computational modeling and biophysical assays, including fluorescence spectroscopy and calorimetry, we demonstrate that PCA directly binds the TRAF domain of TRAF2, leading to decreased thermal stability and potential alteration of trimeric interfaces. By performing functional analyses in HAP1 leukemia cells, we provide evidence that PCA, at low micromolar concentrations, increases cell viability through a TRAF2-dependent mechanism. Mechanistically, PCA binding to TRAF2 inhibits JNK signaling while redirecting TRAF2 toward pro-survival signaling routes involving c-Myc. Collectively, these findings uncover TRAF2 as a novel molecular target of PCA and provide a mechanistic basis for its effects on cell viability.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Pathological cardiac hypertrophy acts as a major pathological contributor to heart failure, profoundly influencing patient outcomes. Deubiquitinating enzymes, which are critical for maintaining protein homeostasis, are increasingly recognized as essential regulators in cardiac hypertrophy and dysfunction. This study aimed to investigate the role of a specific deubiquitinase, Ovarian tumor domain-containing protein 5 (OTUD5), in cardiac hypertrophy and elucidate its functional mechanisms.A pressure overload-induced cardiac hypertrophy model was created in mice using transverse aortic constriction (TAC) surgery. Additionally, phenylephrine (PE) was employed to induce hypertrophic responses in cultured cardiomyocytes. Cardiac function and structural changes were assessed through echocardiography and histological analysis. To uncover the underlying mechanisms, techniques such as molecular docking, immunofluorescence co-localization, co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP), and in vivo ubiquitination assays were utilized.OTUD5 exhibited elevated expression in both human and mouse samples with hypertrophy-associated heart failure (HF). Silencing OTUD5 diminished cardiomyocyte enlargement in both cellular and TAC-induced mouse models, whereas its overexpression exacerbated cardiac hypertrophy. Mechanically, OTUD5 physically interacted with TNF receptor-associated factor 2 (TRAF2) and bolstered its stability by cleaving K48-linked polyubiquitin chains. Furthermore, OTUD5 activates the NF-κB and AKT/GSK3β signaling pathways in TRAF2-dependent manner. Importantly, cardiomyocyte-specific knockdown of TRAF2 in the heart significantly attenuated OTUD5's hypertrophic-promoting effects in vivo.These findings indicate that OTUD5 positively modulates cardiac hypertrophy by stabilizing TRAF2 and promote activation of NF-κB and AKT/GSK3β signaling, positioning OTUD5 as a potential therapeutic target for cardiac hypertrophy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Colorectal cancer has been characterised as one of the major causes of morbidity and mortality due to cancer globally, and its load is increasing in India with a growing percentage of younger patients. Early intervention (by diagnosis) is associated with a substantial improvement in survival; however, current screening methods, such as colonoscopy, are expensive and invasive, and stool-based and conventional serum biomarkers demonstrate poor sensitivity to disease at an early stage. Oxidative stress and epigenetic modifications play a key role in colorectal carcinogenesis, and circulating indicators of these pathways can enhance non-invasive early diagnosis. The objective of this study is to compare the diagnostic accuracy of serum peroxiredoxin 2 (PRDX2), serum peroxiredoxin 4 (PRDX4), and plasma methylated septin 9 (mSEPT9) with conventional biomarkers for the early detection of colorectal cancer in an Indian population.This hospital-based case-control study will include 100 participants, including 50 histopathologically confirmed untreated early-stage colorectal cancer patients (stage I-II) and 50 age- and sex-matched healthy controls without malignancy or chronic inflammatory disease, based in a hospital. The sample size was determined based on the expected difference in diagnostic performance between novel and conventional biomarkers, as described in the Methods section. Venous blood will be gathered after overnight fasting and processed to get serum and plasma, which will be stored at -80°C until analysis. The study has received institutional ethics committee (IEC) approval. The levels of serum PRDX2, serum PRDX4, plasma mSEPT9, carcinoembryonic antigen 19-9, C-reactive protein, neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin, interleukin-6, and estimated glomerular filtration rate will be determined either with standardised enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay procedures or with computation formulas. To evaluate individual and multi-markers, the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve will be used to evaluate the diagnostic performance, and multivariate logistic regression models will be used to evaluate the diagnostic performance of individual and multi-markers. The primary outcome will be the diagnostic accuracy of PRDX2, PRDX4, and mSEPT9 assessed using the area under the ROC curve, while secondary outcomes will include sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and the diagnostic performance of combined biomarker panels.This protocol describes a systematic assessment of both oxidative stress and epigenetic biomarkers in addition to conventional biomarkers for the early detection of colorectal cancer in an Indian population. The study aims to improve the diagnostic sensitivity for early-stage colorectal cancer while maintaining feasibility for routine clinical laboratory practice by evaluating a minimally invasive blood-based panel comprising PRDX2, PRDX4, and mSEPT9. The findings of this study may provide preliminary evidence for the development of cost-effective, non-invasive screening strategies suitable for resource-limited settings and may support future validation studies and implementation research.Copyright © 2026, Kellellu et al.
T-2 toxin, a prevalent mycotoxin in feed, poses severe health risks to poultry. While its systemic toxicity is recognized, its neurotoxic effects in birds, and effective countermeasures, remain underexplored. Sodium butyrate (NaB), a green feed additive, has shown broad biological benefits, but its potential to alleviate T-2-induced neurotoxicity is unclear.This study aimed to investigate the neurotoxic mechanisms of T-2 toxin in quails and evaluate the protective role of sodium butyrate.Two-hundred-and-forty 10-day-old quails were randomly assigned to Control, T-2 toxin (0.9 mg/kg), NaB (500 mg/kg), and T-2+NaB groups. After 14 and 28 days, brain tissues were collected for histopathological (hematoxylin-eosin [HE], Nissl, Fluoro-Jade B [FJB] staining) and molecular analyses (RT-qPCR, Western blot, semi-quantitative PCR) to assess oxidative stress, inflammation, and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress.T-2 toxin induced severe brain damage, characterized by neuronal vacuolization, loss of Nissl bodies, and degeneration. It concurrently activated oxidative stress (upregulated Nrf2 [nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2], HO-1 [heme oxygenase-1], NQO1 [NAD(P)H: quinone oxidoreductase 1]), neuroinflammation (elevated TNF-α [tumor necrosis factor-alpha], IL-1β [interleukin-1 beta], IL-6 [interleukin-6], IL-18 [interleukin-18]), and ER stress (increased GRP78 [glucose-regulated protein 78], IRE1α [inositol-requiring enzyme 1 alpha], TRAF2 [TNF receptor-associated factor 2], IKKα/β [IκB kinase alpha/beta], XBP1 [X-box binding protein 1]). Sodium butyrate supplementation significantly mitigated these histopathological alterations and downregulated the overactivated molecular pathways across all three axes.This study demonstrates that sodium butyrate confers comprehensive neuroprotection against T-2 toxin in quails by co-ordinately alleviating oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, and ER stress. These findings provide a mechanistic basis for using NaB as a dietary intervention to combat mycotoxin-related neurotoxicity in poultry.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is characterized by aggressive behavior, therapeutic resistance, and redox imbalance. Peroxiredoxin 4 (PRDX4), an endoplasmic reticulum-localized antioxidant enzyme, has been implicated in tumor progression, but its clinical significance and redox-associated role in PDAC remain unclear.PRDX4 expression was assessed by immunohistochemistry in 128 resected PDAC specimens and correlated with clinicopathological features and disease-specific survival (DSS). Functional effects were examined in PRDX4-overexpressing PDAC cell lines. Intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) were evaluated under basal and oxidative stress conditions, with N-acetyl-l-cysteine (NAC) rescue. Signaling and redox-related proteins were analyzed by Western blotting. A PRDX4-transgenic mouse model was used to evaluate tumor growth, angiogenesis, and gemcitabine (GEM) responsiveness.High PRDX4 expression was associated with aggressive clinicopathological features and poor DSS. PRDX4 overexpression promoted cell proliferation and migration and reduced intracellular ROS levels. NAC treatment diminished ROS differences, supporting ROS-dependent redox modulation. PRDX4 overexpression was associated with increased ERK phosphorylation, suppressed JNK phosphorylation, increased total PI3K/AKT and p38 levels, reduced E-cadherin expression, and upregulation of NRF2 and HO-1. PRDX4 expression positively correlated with NRF2 and HO-1 in clinical specimens. In vivo, PRDX4 overexpression promoted tumor growth, increased microvessel density, and reduced GEM sensitivity.PRDX4 is associated with aggressive tumor behavior, redox adaptation, and might reduce gemcitabine responsiveness in PDAC in vivo, supporting its potential as a prognostic biomarker and a candidate molecule for future therapeutic investigation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is highly recurrent and metastatic; EP300 drives tumorigenesis, but its mechanism is unclear.EP300 expression was profiled in OSCC via databases, RT-PCR, and Western blot. Knockdown effects on proliferation (CCK-8, colony), cell cycle, and apoptosis (flow cytometry) were measured. EP300-Notch interplay was probed with Valproic acid, a Notch signaling activator (VPA) rescue assays.Our experimental results showed that EP300 was upregulated in OSCC Cell Lines. In addition, bioinformatics analysis showed that EP300 upregulation was significantly associated with poor prognosis of OSCC. Prior research and bioinformatics analyses have demonstrated a close relationship between EP300 and the activation of the notch signaling pathway in OSCC. After EP300 knockdown in OSCC cells treated with VPA, our results indicated that VPA could partially reverse the effects of EP300 knockdown on cell proliferation, cell cycle, apoptosis, and EMT processes in OSCC Cells.In this study, we observed that EP300 knockdown suppressed the Notch signaling pathway, consequently inhibiting OSCC cell proliferation, the cell cycle, and EMT while also promoting apoptosis. These findings suggest that EP300 is crucial for OSCC cell growth and development.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Breastfeeding anchors infant immunity and long-term health, but its benefits are threatened by Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) mastitis, an increasingly prevalent condition driven by antimicrobial resistance and therapeutic limitations. Beyond compromising maternal wellness, mastitis threatens the safety and continuity of breast milk, highlighting a critical need for innovative intervention strategies. Herein, we demonstrated that α‑ketobutyrate (α-KB), a metabolite of the transsulfuration pathway, mitigated S. aureus‑induced inflammation, oxidative stress, and blood-milk barrier (BMB) disruption both in vivo and in vitro. α‑KB enhanced macroautophagic/autophagic responses, marked by increased ATG5, BECN1 (beclin 1), and LC3-II:LC3-I conversion and reduced SQSTM1/p62, through a RIPK1-lactate-TFEB axis. Specifically, it directly bound and stabilized RIPK1, elevated lactate production, and drove TFEB nuclear translocation to activate macroautophagy/autophagy and promote intracellular bacterial clearance. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations suggested stable α‑KB and RIPK1 binding via hydrophobic and hydrogen bond interactions; RIPK1 knockout abolished α‑KB-induced autophagy and lactate generation, effects rescued by lactate supplementation. This study identifies a novel immunometabolic circuit linking a metabolite to RIPK1-lactate-TFEB-mediated autophagy, offering therapeutic potential against antibiotic‑resistant S. aureus mastitis and presenting a new paradigm for safeguarding breastfeeding quality and infant health.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; α-KB: α‑ketobutyrate; ATG5: autophagy related 5; BMB: blood-milk barrier; CETSA: cellular thermal shift assay; DARTS: drug affinity responsive target stability; IL1B: interleukin 1 beta; IL6: interleukin 6; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MST: microscale thermophoresis; NOS2: nitric oxide synthase 2; OCLN: occludin; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PTGS2: prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2; Rapa: rapamycin; RIPK1: receptor interacting serine/threonine kinase 1; RT-PCR: real-time polymerasechain reaction;S. aureus:Staphylococcus aureus; SEM: standard error of the mean; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TFEB: transcription factor EB; TJP1: tight junction protein 1; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; WT: wild-type.
Necroptosis plays a significant role in the pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and lupus nephritis (LN). Nonetheless, the therapeutic potential of necroptosis inhibition in these conditions remains unclear.This study examines the systemic therapeutic effects of Necrostatin-1 (Nec-1), an inhibitor of receptor-interacting serine/threonine kinase 1 (RIPK1), in MRL/lpr lupus-prone mice.Immunohistochemical analysis in renal tissue of active LN patients and MRL/lpr mice demonstrated elevated levels of pRIPK1 and pMLKL. A 28-day treatment with Nec-1 significantly ameliorated the histological manifestations of SLE, including alopecia, skin erythema, arthritis, and nephritis, in MRL/lpr mice. Notably, it mitigated acute lesion features such as LN perivascular inflammation and reduced the presence of pRIPK1 and pMLKL positive immune cells in the kidney. Mechanistically, Nec-1 treatment may exert its therapeutic effects on SLE by decreasing the proportion of Th17 cells in MRL/lpr mice.These findings suggest that targeting RIPK1 hold promise as a therapeutic strategy for the management of SLE. Key Points • Necroptosis markers are upregulated in renal immune cells of active LN patients and MRL/lpr mice. • Necrostatin-1 (Nec-1) ameliorates clinical, serological, and histological features in MRL/lpr mice. • Nec-1 exerts its therapeutic effect by inhibiting necroptosis in immune cells, which subsequently reduces Th17 cell frequency and IL-17A levels.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to International League of Associations for Rheumatology (ILAR).
The cGAS-STING1 pathway is essential for innate immunity, while its functions beyond immune activation have emerged as a key research topic. Recent studies have revealed the non-canonical roles of this pathway in autophagy. However, whether it participates in organelle quality control through selective autophagy processes such as mitophagy remains largely unexplored. In our study, we identify the cGAS-STING1 pathway as an essential upstream regulator of PINK1-PRKN-dependent mitophagy. We demonstrate that upon mitochondrial damage, STING1 is recruited to damaged mitochondria in a process requiring PINK1- and VCP/p97-mediated degradation of outer mitochondrial membrane proteins. STING1 at damaged mitochondria then activates TBK1, which phosphorylates the mitophagy receptor OPTN at Ser177, enhancing its recruitment to damaged mitochondria and driving efficient mitophagy. Disruption of the STING1-TBK1-OPTN axis impairs mitophagy and shifts the cellular response from pro-survival mitophagy to apoptosis. Our findings therefore uncover a non-canonical, pro-survival function of the cGAS-STING1 pathway in mitophagy, extending its role beyond innate immunity to the regulation of selective autophagy and cell fate decisions.Abbreviations: BafA1: bafilomycin A1; cGAS: cyclic GMP‑AMP synthase; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; GABARAP: GABA type A receptor-associated protein; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MQC: mitochondrial quality control; mtDNA: mitochondrial DNA; NAC: N-Acetylcysteine; Nec-1: Necrostatin-1; OMM: outer mitochondrial membrane; OPTN: optineurin; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; RIPK1: receptor interacting serine/threonine kinase 1; ROS: reactive oxygen species; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; TFEB: transcription factor EB; VCP/p97: valosin containing protein; Z-VAD-FMK: benzyloxycarbony (Cbz)-l-ValAla-Asp (OMe)-fluoromethylketone.
Cytosolic DNA sensing through the cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS)-stimulator of interferon genes (STING) pathway has emerged as a promising strategy to elicit antitumor immunity. However, clinical translation of STING agonists has been hindered by limited efficacy and dose-limiting inflammatory toxicity, highlighting that simply providing activating ligands is insufficient to achieve durable immune responses. In this issue of the Journal of Clinical Investigation, Liao et al. showed that intracellular aspartate availability critically shapes STING signaling responsiveness. Aspartate deficiency disrupted pyrimidine synthesis, induced mtDNA stress, and engaged a feed-forward Z-DNA binding protein 1 and receptor interacting serine/threonine kinase 1/3 axis. Rather than directly triggering immunity, this metabolic state primed DNA sensing and fueled downstream signaling, thereby enabling robust and sustained antitumor immune responses. Together, these findings position nucleotide metabolism as a key determinant of innate immune responsiveness and suggest that metabolic conditioning may enhance the efficacy of STING-targeted therapies.
Adult neuronal survival underlies lifelong brain function, yet its sustaining mechanisms remain unclear. We identify a neurovascular survival axis at intracranial arteries in mice, where superior cervical ganglion (SCG) sympathetic terminals form synapse-like neurosmooth muscular junctions (NsMJs) with arterial smooth muscle cells (aSMCs) that secrete netrin-4 (Ntn4). Adult aSMC-restricted Ntn4 deletion selectively reduces rostral, intracranial-projecting (cerebrospinal fluid-traced) SCG neurons; the denervation of the intracranial arterial plexus follows soma loss. Local recombinant Ntn4 delivery to the SCG rescues these phenotypes. Ntn4 withdrawal engages a receptor-interacting serine/threonine kinase 1 (RIPK1)/mixed lineage kinase domain-like pseudokinase (MLKL)-linked, caspase-independent, non-inflammatory death program via deleted in colorectal cancer (DCC): unliganded DCC triggers neuronal loss, whereas Dcc knockout preserves vulnerable neurons. Arterial Ntn4 declines from young adulthood and precedes selective neuronal attrition before midlife; aSMC-targeted Ntn4 overexpression prevents this loss. Together, intracranial arteries provide a local, non-cell-autonomous trophic niche that maintains this adult sympathetic subset and becomes compromised as vascular Ntn4 output wanes with age.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The infiltration of regulatory T cells (Tregs) in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is associated with a poor prognosis. The present study aimed to explore the potential function of Treg marker genes in prognosis and immunotherapy using the transcriptome profiles of five LUAD cohorts sourced from public databases. Among them, the single-cell dataset GSE131907 was employed to identify cell types in lung cancer tissues and to identify Treg markers. The prognostic Treg markers were screened using univariate Cox and Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator regression analyses. Subsequently, a prognostic model was constructed and assessed using Kaplan-Meier and receiver operating characteristic curves. Furthermore, the effect of prognostic Treg markers on clinical characteristics, the immune microenvironment and tumor mutation burden (TMB) were evaluated. In addition, the function of genes strongly correlated with the prognostic risk score were investigated using Spearman and functional enrichment analysis. Finally, the genes expression levels were assessed using reverse transcription-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) and western blotting. By analyzing the single-cell data, 13 Treg markers [centromere protein M (CENPM), pituitary tumor-transforming gene 1 protein, interleukin 1 receptor type 2, baculoviral IAP repeat containing 3, glucocorticoid induced 1 (GLCCI1), melanoma-associated antigen H1 (MAGEH1), CD5, cytokine inducible SH2 containing protein, zinc finger protein 101 (ZNF101), Ikaros family zinc finger protein 4 (IKZF4), ankyrin repeat and SOCS box protein 2, zinc finger CCCH-type containing 12D and C-C motif chemokine receptor 6] were identified as prognostic features. The prognostic model constructed using these 13 genes revealed that the high-risk group had a poorer prognosis than the low-risk group. Moreover, it was demonstrated that the risk score could be an independent prognostic factor affecting the prognosis of patients with LUAD. Additionally, the high-risk group had a lower ESTIMATE score, higher TMB score and lower T cell receptor richness than the low-risk group. Finally, RT-qPCR and western blotting showed that the expression levels of CENPM, ZNF101, MAGEH1 and IKZF4 were significantly altered in cancer tissues compared with the adjacent normal tissues. In conclusion, a reliable prognostic model based on 13 Treg markers was developed. The comprehensive characterization of the Treg markers of LUAD may help to monitor the prognosis and provide new strategies for LUAD treatment.Copyright: © 2026 He et al.
Unexplored biological matter-including uncharacterized genetic elements, molecular entities, and microbial components-remains poorly understood. Here, we use integrated multi-omics approaches to identify and characterize previously unrecognized protein products encoded by circular RNAs (circRNAs) in human tissue specimens and to delineate their roles in the progression of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). The transcription of precursor mRNA by RNA polymerase Ⅱ subunit A (RPB1) is crucial for the biogenesis of these potential circRNA-encoded proteins. Functional and translational analyses link their expression to distinct pathological stages of LUAD in patients. The protein RIPK1-98, encoded by circRIPK1, was identified as functionally distinct from its parental gene product, receptor-interacting serine/threonine kinase 1 (RIPK1). RIPK1-98 modulates cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2)-dependent cell-cycle regulation, thereby facilitating tumor proliferation in cellular and animal models. Together, these findings suggest that RIPK1-98 serves as a biomarker for cell-cycle progression in LUAD and highlight its potential as a therapeutic target to counteract resistance to first-line treatments, such as osimertinib.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ubiquitin (Ub)-conjugating enzymes (E2 enzyme) are essential mediators of Ub-dependent signaling cascades, governing diverse cellular processes such as proteolysis and transcriptional regulation. Despite increasing evidence linking E2 enzymes to tumorigenesis, their precise roles in gastric cancer remain incompletely defined. In this study, we identified UBE2B as a key oncogenic E2 enzyme significantly upregulated in gastric cancer tissues through integrative bioinformatics analysis and clinical validation. High UBE2B expression was associated with poor patient prognosis and aggressive clinicopathologic features. Functional assays demonstrated that UBE2B promotes gastric cancer cell proliferation both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, UBE2B interacts with the E3 ligase baculoviral IAP repeat-containing 2 (BIRC2) to catalyze K63-linked ubiquitination of TNF receptor-associated factor 1 (TRAF1), thereby amplifying NF-κB signaling. Furthermore, chromatin immunoprecipitation and luciferase reporter assays revealed that the NF-κB subunit P65 directly binds to the UBE2B promoter, enhancing its transcription and forming a feedforward regulatory loop. This UBE2B-BIRC2-TRAF1 axis, coupled with the UBE2B-TRAF1-P65 feedback circuitry, establishes a self-sustaining mechanism that drives NF-κB hyperactivation and tumor cell proliferation. Collectively, our findings highlight UBE2B as a critical modulator of gastric cancer progression and a potential target for therapeutic intervention.This study characterizes the UBE2B-BIRC2-TRAF1 axis as a driver of NF-κB hyperactivation, identifying UBE2B as a prognostic biomarker and a potential therapeutic target for disrupting this oncogenic feedback loop in gastric cancer.©2026 American Association for Cancer Research.
MYCN amplification predicts poor prognosis and resistance to therapy in human neuroblastoma. However, pharmacological strategies that directly antagonize MYCN, the protein encoded by MYCN, remain unsuccessful. Oncogenic MYCN regulates many aspects of cellular metabolism, which in principle provides novel targets for development of effective cancer therapeutics. We herein identified the solute carrier family 25 member 1 (SLC25A1)-mediated mitochondrial citrate export as a metabolic vulnerability in MYCN-amplified neuroblastomas. The citrate efflux from mitochondria is essential for MYCN-amplified neuroblastoma cells to generate the necessary acetyl-CoA to support histone acetylation and subsequent transcriptional activation of the anti-apoptotic baculoviral IAP repeat containing 3 (BIRC3) gene. Meanwhile, elevated cytosolic acetyl-CoA sustains the acetylation of non-histone protein myeloid cell leukemia 1 (MCL1), which counteracts its protein degradation by the 26S proteasome. BIRC3 and MCL1 in turn cooperate to inhibit apoptosis in MYCN-amplified neuroblastoma cells. Inhibition of SLC25A1 preferentially induced potent apoptosis in MYCN-amplified neuroblastoma cells, and synergistically potentiated the therapeutic efficacies of BCL2 antagonists. These findings reveal SLC25A1 as an actionable MYCN-driven metabolic liability, and validate SLC25A1 inhibitors, alone or in combination with BCL2 antagonists, as potential effective therapeutics for MYCN-amplified neuroblastomas.Copyright © 2026 The American Society of Gene and Cell Therapy. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skin cutaneous melanoma (SKCM) is an aggressive malignancy with limited prognostic markers. Mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT)-driven necrosis has been implicated in tumor progression and immune regulation, yet its role in SKCM remains unclear.39 MPT-driven necrosis-related genes (MPTDNRG) were retrieved from Molecular Signatures Database (MSigDB). Using TCGA-SKCM and GTEx datasets, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified and incorporated into Cox and LASSO analyses. An MPT-driven necrosis-related gene signature (MPTDNRGS) was constructed. The signature was validated in GEO cohorts (GSE19234, GSE65904). A nomogram integrating clinical factors was established to assess predictive performance. Functional enrichment, immune infiltration, and checkpoint responsiveness were evaluated. Single-cell RNA-seq (scRNA-seq) datasets were further analyzed to map cell-type-specific expression and T-cell trajectories.A five gene signature (BIRC3, CASP7, ENDOG, PRF1, PRKCB) stratified patients into high and low risk groups with distinct survival outcomes. The nomogram achieved strong predictive accuracy (3-year AUC = 0.772). High risk patients exhibited suppressed immune activation, lower T-cell infiltration, and reduced predicted response to immune checkpoint inhibitors. Single cell analysis revealed higher MPTDNRGS scores in tumor-infiltrating T cells than in normal controls. Pseudotime trajectories showed cytotoxic T cells transitioning to immunosuppressive phenotypes, marked by progressive BIRC3 upregulation. Elevated BIRC3 correlated with immune inhibitory markers and enrichment of TGF-β and IL6/JAK/STAT3 pathways.We established and validated a novel MPT-driven necrosis-based prognostic model for SKCM. This model reliably predicted patient outcomes and immune status. BIRC3 emerged as a potential regulator of T-cell dysfunction and a promising therapeutic target in SKCM.© 2025. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42513110 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42501808 is a review article
Developing cancer therapies that induce specific death of malignant cells is critical for preventing relapse. Highly effective strategies, such as immunotherapy, exemplify this principle. Here, we provide the mechanistic basis for a small-molecule approach that leverages chemically induced proximity (CIP) to kill diffuse large B cell lymphoma, the most common non-Hodgkin lymphoma. We developed lysine acetyltransferase (KAT)-based TCIPs (transcriptional/epigenetic chemical inducers of proximity), or KAT-TCIPs, which redirect p300/CREB-binding protein (CBP) to activate cell-death networks repressed by the oncogenic driver BCL6. Our lead KAT-TCIP reprograms the epigenome to initiate apoptosis. The crystal structure of the chemically induced p300-BCL6 complex reveals how chance protein-protein interactions may be exploited to confer the potency and selectivity of KAT-TCIPs. Thus, oncogenic drivers can be co-opted to activate robust cell death. Consistent with their gain-of-function mechanism, TCIPs recruiting different transcriptional activators-p300, BRD4, or CDK9-produce distinct genomic responses, suggesting specialized therapeutic uses.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Forkhead box O (FOXO) transcription factors regulate metabolism, DNA damage repair, cell cycle, and apoptosis. FOXO4 contains ΦXXΦΦ motifs in its intrinsically disordered conserved regions (CR2C and CR3) that mediate interactions with the KIX domain of CREB-binding protein (CBP), a transcriptional coactivator and histone acetyltransferase. While FOXO3a binds to CBP KIX through both CR2C and CR3, the interaction between FOXO4 CR2C and CBP KIX has remained uncharacterized, despite FOXO4 CR2C uniquely carrying four consecutive prolines immediately following its ΦXXΦΦ motif. Here, we characterize this interaction by solution NMR spectroscopy. Chemical-shift perturbation identifies the binding interfaces on both proteins and reveals splitting of several amide cross-peaks in CR2C into two sets. Systematic proline mutagenesis and truncation support the presence of distinct conformational subpopulations, for which apparent Kd values were estimated independently. Circular dichroism analysis shows that CR2C remains disordered upon binding, and docking models suggest that FOXO4 CR2C binds in multiple disordered conformations on the KIX MLL site. These results illustrate how an adjacent poly-proline tract modulates the KIX binding behavior of CR2C through conformational heterogeneity.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
E1A-binding proteins p300 (EP300) and CREB-binding protein (CBP) are two homologous multidomain enzymes that have emerged as promising therapeutic targets in oncology. Recent drug discovery efforts have yielded degraders that target EP300/CBP by engaging either the bromodomain or the histone acetyltransferase (HAT) domain, with the latter potentially leading to preferential or selective degradation of one paralog. Building on a potent proline-based EP300/CBP HAT domain inhibitor, we designed, synthesized, and characterized a series of novel HAT-targeting and cereblon-recruiting proteolysis-targeting chimeras (PROTACs). In particular, compound 25a was identified as a PROTAC that promotes preferential degradation of EP300 over CBP, highlighting the potential of HAT domain engagement to modulate paralog selectivity. Functional studies in REH cells showed that preferential EP300 degradation by 25a resulted in impaired proliferation, G1 cell cycle arrest, and induction of apoptosis. Thus, HAT-targeting degrader 25a provides a promising foundation for further optimization toward therapeutic applications in EP300-dependent malignancies.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
Waldenström macroglobulinemia (WM) is a rare indolent B-cell lymphoproliferative disorder characterized by bone marrow infiltration and monoclonal immunoglobulin M (IgM) secretion, which poses diagnostic challenges in the early stage. The present study reported on a 63-year-old male with WM presenting with cough, hyperviscosity syndrome (dizziness, weakness, fatigue, blurred vision), severe anemia and cold agglutination in August 2023. After 37˚C incubation to eliminate cold agglutination interference, laboratory tests confirmed severe anemia (hemoglobin, 54 g/l), hyperglobulinemia (globulin, 92 g/l) and markedly elevated serum IgM (83.6 g/l). Peripheral blood smear showed erythrocyte rouleaux formation and plasmacytoid lymphocytes. Bone marrow biopsy revealed 80% infiltration of B-lymphomatous cells, 10% abnormal plasma cells and only 10% residual normal hematopoietic cells. Serum/urine immunoelectrophoresis identified IgM-λ paraprotein and free λ light chains. Bone marrow flow cytometry detected a prominent abnormally mature B-lymphocyte population (72.2% of lymphocytes) positive for CD19, CD20 and cytoplasmic λ (cλ); partially positive for CD23, CD25 and CD27; and negative for CD5, CD10 and CD103. Abnormal plasma cells (0.3% of nucleated cells) showed cλ restriction; strong expression of CD38, CD138 and CD19; partial expression of CD20 and CD27; and absence of CD5, CD10 and CD56. Genetic testing confirmed the MYD88 innate immune signal transduction adaptor (MYD88) L265P mutation positivity via allele-specific PCR and 14q32/11q13 translocation negativity using fluorescence in vitro hybridization, confirming the diagnosis of WM. The patient received therapeutic plasma exchange (TPE) followed by bortezomib-dexamethasone chemotherapy, resulting in resolved cold agglutination, alleviated hyperviscosity syndrome and improved laboratory indicators. Follow-up was performed immediately after discharge; however, it was terminated after 1 month (November 2023) due to re-admission for pulmonary infection. In conclusion, cold agglutination is a pivotal diagnostic clue for WM; combined immunophenotyping and MYD88 L265P detection enables definitive diagnosis, and early TPE plus chemotherapy effectively ameliorates clinical manifestations.Copyright: © 2026 Zhang et al.
Multiple cancers overexpress forkhead (FOX) box M1 (FOXM1), a transcription factor (TF) that holds great promise for developing cancer drugs. Herein, through yeast-two-hybrid (Y2H) screening, we obtained a novel FOXM1-targeting peptide M1-NP1, which significantly inhibited the cell cycle and migration of cancer cells. Mechanistically, M1-NP1 bound to the C-terminal region of FOXM1 and disrupted its interactions with the cell cycle-related kinase polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1) and the transcriptional co-activator cyclic adenosine monophosphate (AMP) response element-binding protein (CREB) binding protein (CBP), thus inhibiting FOXM1 transcriptional activities. Additionally, M1-NP1 affected FOXM1 distribution in cells, preventing FOXM1 from infiltrating the nucleus to exert its effects. Furthermore, M1-NP1 treatment in cancer cells downregulated the gene sets of cell cycle phase transition and upregulated the gene sets of cell adhesion. Moreover, M1-NP1's anti-cancer effects were confirmed in wild-type (WT) mice, without any notable toxic or side effects. In addition to its good safety indications, such as the low levels of immunogenicity and hemolysis, M1-NP1 also exhibited a favorable profile regarding stability and distribution in mice. Overall, M1-NP1 targets FOXM1 for cancer therapy.© 2025 The Authors.
Bu-Sui-Dan (BSD) is a traditional Chinese medicine formulation first recorded in the Song Dynasty text Shi Zhai Bai Yi Xuan Fang for the treatment of "Gu-Wei" (bone flaccidity), a condition clinically corresponding to osteoporosis. Although BSD demonstrates definite anti-osteoporotic effects, the underlying mechanisms remain largely unclear.To explore the therapeutic mechanisms of BSD in age-related osteoporosis.Herein, we utilized LC-MS/MS to analyze the chemical composition of BSD. Naturally aged mice were utilized to establish the age-related osteoporosis model. Therapeutic effects were evaluated utilizing micro-CT, histomorphometry, and immunofluorescence. Interactions between BSD components and zinc finger E-box-binding homeobox 1 (ZEB1) were analyzed via molecular docking and microscale thermophoresis (MST). Epigenetic regulation of Delta-like ligand 4 (Dll4)/Notch1 signaling was assessed using quantitative real-time PCR, Western blotting, and chromatin immunoprecipitation. ZEB1's function was validated in vivo via short hairpin RNA (shRNA) knockdown.We identified 576 bioactive constituents within BSD. Docking and MST assays indicated that BSD active compounds interacted with ZEB1, exhibiting low-micromolar affinities. In vivo, BSD dose-dependently ameliorated osteoporosis, significantly improving bone mineral density, trabecular microarchitecture, and type H vessel formation. Mechanistically, BSD upregulated ZEB1 in endothelial cells, promoting its interaction with CREB-binding protein (CBP). This enhanced histone H3 (H3K4ac, H3K14ac, and H3K18ac) acetylation at Dll4 and Notch1 promoters, activating their transcription. Crucially, targeted ZEB1 knockdown in vivo abolished the BSD-induced histone acetylation, angiogenesis, and bone protection.The present study uncovered that BSD could effectively improve bone mass and type H vessels in age-related osteoporosis through the ZEB1/Dll4/Notch1 signaling pathway, suggesting that BSD could be a promising therapeutic agent for age-related osteoporosis. However, one limitation of this study is that only a single batch of BSD was used. Therefore, future research employing multiple batches is needed to verify the reproducibility of these findings.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42554889 is a review article
Cluster of differentiation 47 (CD47) blockade promotes tumor cell phagocytosis; however, transitioning this initial innate immune event into durable anti-cancer adaptive immunity and tumor control remains a critical challenge. To address this translational gap, we have engineered aCD47 - CpG, a novel immune-stimulating antibody conjugate (ISAC) coupling a CD47-blocking antibody (aCD47) to a Toll-like receptor 9 agonist, unmethylated CpG, to enable synchronized deployment of co-stimulatory signals during tumor engulfment. This ISAC, aCD47-CpG, but not the parent aCD47, reprograms macrophages toward an anti-tumor M1-like phenotype, enhances antigen cross-presentation, and promotes robust CD8 + T cell priming. We found that systemically administered aCD47-CpG drove macrophage-dependent tumor suppression in a human lymphoma xenograft model. In parallel, the treatment in immunocompetent syngeneic models of lymphoma and highly immunosuppressive triple-negative breast cancer resulted in profound tumor regression, metastasis inhibition, and durable anti-cancer immune memory. These effects were accompanied by remodeling of the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment toward an immune-permissive state, characterized by M2-to-M1 macrophage repolarization, intratumoral infiltration of cytotoxic and memory T cells, and depletion of regulatory T cells. This spatiotemporally coordinated immunotherapy platform offers a promising strategy to bridge innate and adaptive immunity, thereby advancing the translational potential of CD47-targeted cancer therapies.
Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is the causative pathogen of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Toll-like receptor 8 (TLR8), which is located on the X chromosome, plays as a key mediator of the innate immune response. Genetic variation in the form of single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within TLR8 has been linked to changes in the transcriptional activity of this gene. Thus, we aimed to identify TLR8 SNPs in the proximal promoter region and investigate whether these SNPs are associated with COVID-19 case status in a Korean population. We performed amplicon sequencing to investigate the genotypes and allele frequencies of regulatory SNPs in COVID-19 patients (n = 191) and the control group (n = 173). Four polymorphic sites, rs5741883, rs186566524, rs3764879, and rs3764880, were identified within the TLR8 proximal promoter. Given the X-linked nature of this locus, allele and genotype frequencies were computed independently by sex. Notably, the minor C allele at rs3764879 occurred at a markedly reduced rate among male patients (10%) relative to male controls (24%), corresponding to an OR of 0.35 (95% CI 0.15-0.8; p = 0.018; q = 0.036). A parallel pattern emerged for rs3764880, where the minor A allele was likewise underrepresented in male patients (9%) versus male controls (24%), yielding an OR of 0.3 (95% CI 0.12-0.7; p = 0.01; q = 0.036). By contrast, neither genotype nor allele distributions differed significantly between female patients and female controls for any of the four variants. These results indicate that the TLR8 polymorphisms rs3764879 and rs3764880 may be associated with COVID-19 case status among Korean males, although further validation in larger, independent cohorts is required.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are essential in the innate immune response. Furthermore, neuronal TLRs have been involved in regulating neuronal dendritic outgrowth and excitability. However, a deeper understanding of neuronal-TLR function is essential. We investigated the expression and role of TLR8 using mouse postnatal hippocampal neuronal cultures. We assessed TLR8 (and TLR7) expression by immunocytochemistry and TLR8 functionality via electrophysiological recordings in a high-density multi-electrode array system and calcium flux imaging. Pathway activation following fast TLR8 stimulation was performed via Western blot. TLR8 and TLR7 are expressed in postnatal hippocampal neurons at DIV14 and in neurosphere-derived neurons. TLR8 expression was detected in the cell body and dendrites of GABAergic, parvalbumin-expressing interneurons. Stimulation with the TLR8 agonist TL8-506 led to increased neuronal activity in the short term and enhanced neuronal synchronization in short- and long-term recordings. The calcium flux induced by TLR8 was reduced by blocking NMDA receptors with D-AP5. TLR8 stimulation did not lead to IkB-α degradation. Our findings demonstrate that TLR8 and TLR7 are expressed in mouse postnatal hippocampal neurons. TLR8 activation leads to increased neuronal excitability that was decreased by NMDA antagonism. However, acute TLR8 stimulation failed to robustly activate the canonical TLR signaling pathway. We propose that TLR8 activation might lead to the enhancement of excitatory NMDA receptors.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42488661 is a review article
Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) often adopt immunosuppressive phenotypes that promote tumor progression and limit the efficacy of immunotherapy. Although Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9) agonists and interferon-γ (IFN-γ) possess immunostimulatory properties, their antitumor efficacy as monotherapy remains limited, particularly in poorly immunogenic tumors. Here, we investigated whether coordinated activation of innate immune pathways could reprogram macrophages and enhance antitumor immunity in melanoma. Using genome-wide cap analysis of gene expression (CAGE), we found that combined CpG DNA and IFN-γ stimulation induced extensive transcriptional reprogramming in macrophages, characterized by activation of M1-associated genes, enhancer remodeling, alternative transcription start site usage, and induction of transcription factors associated with inflammatory and cytotoxic responses. Functionally, this combination markedly enhanced macrophage-mediated phagocytosis of live tumor cells and induced sustained antitumor activity that persisted for at least 10 days after stimulation. In the poorly immunogenic B16F10 melanoma model, intratumoral administration of CpG DNA in combination with IFN-γ significantly suppressed tumor growth and prolonged survival compared with single-agent treatment. This antitumor effect was associated with increased infiltration and activation of macrophages and CD8+ T cells, without a corresponding expansion of regulatory T cells. Overall, these findings suggest that coordinated IFN-γ and TLR9 signaling promotes TAM reprogramming and is associated with enhanced antitumor immunity and the conversion of an immunologically cold tumor microenvironment into a more immune-responsive tumor microenvironment, highlighting the potential of an innate immune-targeted therapeutic strategy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PA) colonization drives persistent infection and inflammation in bronchiectasis, a condition lacking targeted biotherapies. Phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) is a key regulator of immune homeostasis, and its plant-derived activator, Ginkgolic acid C17:1 (GAC 17:1), has emerged as a potential biotechnological therapeutic agent due to its anti-inflammatory properties.This study aimed to investigate the therapeutic potential of GAC 17:1, a natural compound, in alleviating PA-induced airway injury by targeting the PTEN/mtDNA/TLR9 axis, thereby evaluating its role as a novel biotechnological intervention for immune modulation in bronchiectasis.A rat model of chronic PA-induced bronchial injury was established and divided into four groups: Control, PA-infected, PA-infected + GAC 17:1 (PTEN activator, 2 mg.kg-1), and PA-infected + SF1670 (PTEN inhibitor, 1.5 mg.kg-1). Lung pathology, function (FEV0.3, FVC, PEF), PTEN/TLR9/NF-κB expression (RT-qPCR, Western blot), mtDNA content, cytokine levels (IL-6, IL-17, TGF-β; ELISA), and Th17/Treg cell proportions (flow cytometry) were assessed.PA infection downregulated PTEN, elevated mtDNA/TLR9/NF-κB, increased IL-6/IL-17 and Th17 cells, reduced TGF-β and Tregs, and impaired lung function. Treatment with GAC 17:1, the plant-derived PTEN activator, effectively restored PTEN expression, suppressed mtDNA release and TLR9/NF-κB signaling, rebalanced Th17/Treg immunity, reduced inflammatory cytokines, and significantly improved pulmonary function. Conversely, PTEN inhibition worsened all parameters.This study demonstrates that GAC 17:1, a natural bioactive compound, exerts potent significant effects in PA-related bronchiectasis by activating PTEN and inhibiting the mtDNA/TLR9/NF-κB pathway. Our findings highlight GAC 17:1 as a promising biotechnological candidate for developing plant-derived immunomodulatory therapies against chronic airway infections.Copyright: © 2021 The Author(s); Published by Iranian Journal of Biotechnology.
Aberrant changes in circulating cell-free mitochondrial DNA (ccf-mtDNA) across gestation are associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes. Given the inflammatory properties of ccf-mtDNA via pattern recognition receptors such as Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9), we hypothesized that extracellular mtDNA induces placental inflammation via TLR9 signaling and that this response differs by fetal sex. Pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were treated intravenously with purified mtDNA (300 μg/kg), nuclear DNA (nDNA), saline, and/or the TLR9 antagonist ODN2088 across five studies. Placental responses were evaluated 4 h (Studies 1-3) and 24 h (Study 4) post-treatment; pregnancy and neonatal outcomes were assessed at delivery (Study 5). Exposure to mtDNA, but not nDNA, increased placental il1β, tnfα, and il10 mRNA (p < 0.05), establishing response specificity. mtDNA-induced placental inflammation was fetal sex-dependent: mtDNA increased il6 and il1β mRNA in male placentas (p ≤ 0.0004) but not female placentas, whereas ifnγ was selectively induced in female placentas (p = 0.0004). TLR9 and MyD88 abundance increased in female but not male placentas, and TLR9 antagonism modified selected inflammatory responses with sex-specific patterns. The 4 h inflammatory transcriptional signature resolved by 24 h, whereas mtDNA exposure was associated with a sex-specific shift in antioxidant enzyme expression persisting to 24 h. Despite no effects on gestational length or neonatal biometrics, mtDNA exposure was associated with a higher estimated stillbirth count per litter (IRR = 4.23, 95% CI [0.89, 20.1], p = 0.069). These findings establish extracellular mtDNA as an acute, sex-differentiated placental inflammatory stimulus with partial TLR9 dependence and a potential impact on fetal viability.
Immunoglobulin A (IgA) nephropathy is a systemic immune complex-mediated disease primarily affecting the kidneys, yet pulmonary involvement remains poorly characterized. This study investigated pulmonary structural alterations, IgA deposition, immune cell distribution, and the impact of chronic environmental immune stimulation.High-IgA (HIGA) mice and BALB/c controls were examined under baseline conditions and following chronic particulate matter (PM) exposure. Histopathology, immunofluorescence, immunohistochemistry, and lectin-based assays were used to assess pulmonary IgA deposition, lymphoid cell aggregation, and immune activation.Compared with BALB/c controls, HIGA mice exhibited pulmonary venular remodeling characterized by thickening of the venular tunica media and IgA deposition within the smooth muscle layer. Under baseline conditions, lymphoid cell aggregation in HIGA mice was predominantly localized to peribronchial regions, whereas IgA deposition and C3a deposition were confined to pulmonary venules with minimal spatial overlap. Following PM exposure, HIGA mice developed additional perivenular lymphoid cell aggregation that spatially corresponded with IgA deposition, whereas BALB/c mice showed predominantly peribronchial aggregation. PM exposure was associated with increased pulmonary Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9) expression in both strains. In HIGA mice, TLR9-positive immune cells and interleukin-6 (IL6) expression were enriched in perivenular lymphoid cell aggregates.Pulmonary IgA deposition in HIGA mice is associated with vascular remodeling and compartment-specific immune cell distribution, particularly under environmental stimulation. These findings support an association between IgA deposition and localized immune activation in the lung. However, the causal roles of TLR9 and IL6 in this process remain to be determined.
Selective lipophagy requires cargo recognition and recruitment of autophagy receptors to lipid droplets (LDs), yet the molecular mechanisms that couple LDs to the core autophagy machinery remain poorly defined. Here, we identified the small GTPase RAB18 (RAB18, member RAS oncogene family) as an upstream initiator of lipophagy that directly recruited the macroautophagy/autophagy receptor OPTN (optineurin) to LDs in osteoblasts. Lipid stress induced RAB18 activation and its localization to LDs, where RAB18 engaged OPTN enabling OPTN-LC3 bridging and lysosomal degradation of LDs. Loss of either RAB18 or OPTN impaired lipophagic flux, resulting in lipid accumulation and defective osteogenic differentiation, whereas OPTN overexpression partially rescued RAB18 deficiency, supporting a hierarchical RAB18-OPTN pathway. Thus, while OPTN acted as a critical effector downstream of RAB18, it did not feed back to promote RAB18 recruitment. In vivo, perturbation of this axis compromised bone regeneration under hyperlipidemic conditions. Together, these findings establish RAB18-dependent recruitment of OPTN as a molecular mechanism for selective lipophagy and reveal lipophagy as a critical metabolic adaptation that sustains osteoblast function during lipid stress.Abbreviations: AAV: adeno-associated virus; ALP: alkaline phosphatase; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; CC domain 1: coiled-coil domain 1; CCK-8: cell counting Kit-8 kit; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; HE: hematoxylin and eosin; IF: immunofluorescence; IHC: immunohistochemistry; KD: knockdown; LDs: lipid droplets; Micro-CT: microscopic computerized tomography; OE: overexpression; OPTN: optineurin; qRT-PCR: quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction; RAB18: RAB18, member RAS oncogene family; ROI: region of interest; SD: standard deviations; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; WB: western blot.
Herpes simplex keratitis (HSK) is a leading cause of infectious corneal blindness. Host antiviral responses, particularly type I interferon (IFN) signaling, are impaired during corneal herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) infection, partly due to viral immune evasion and metabolic reprogramming. This study investigated if topical glycolysis inhibition restores mitochondrial antiviral signaling (MAVS)-associated innate antiviral signaling and improves HSK outcomes.In vitro and in vivo infection models were established using the HSV-1 McKrae strain. A stable hexokinase 2 (HK2)-knockdown human corneal epithelial cell (HCEC) line was generated using lentivirus. Protein/mRNA levels were analyzed via western blot (WB), immunofluorescence (IF), enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Protein interactions were confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP). Murine corneal pathology and viral proteins were assessed by slit-lamp imaging, IF, and WB.Elevated HK2 expression was detected in HSK models. HK2 knockdown or 2-deoxy-d-glucose (2-DG)-mediated inhibition reduced HSV-1 replication (lower infected cell protein 0 [ICP0], higher interferon-stimulated gene 56 [ISG56]). Co-IP confirmed the interaction between HK2 and MAVS protein, and HK2 inhibition activated the TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1)/interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) pathway. Topical application of 2-DG improved murine corneal epithelial integrity, reduced viral proteins (glycoprotein D, ICP0), and showed efficacy comparable to acyclovir.Topical glycolysis inhibition enhances corneal antiviral defenses via MAVS-mediated type I IFN signaling, controlling HSV-1 and alleviating disease. It reveals a novel corneal metabolism-antiviral immunity link, highlights HK2 as a therapeutic target for HSK, and supports metabolic therapies for HSK and ocular herpes virus infections.
Cellular senescence is accompanied by profound lysosomal alterations, yet whether lysosome-associated factors actively drive aging remains unclear. Through a focused CRISPR/Cas9 screen in human mesenchymal progenitor cells (hMPCs), we identified N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphotransferase subunits alpha and beta (GNPTAB), an enzyme responsible for lysosomal hydrolase targeting, as a potent regulator of cellular senescence. Genetic ablation of GNPTAB attenuated senescence, whereas its overexpression accelerated senescence. This pro-senescent function occurred independently of GNPTAB's canonical enzymatic role. Instead, GNPTAB binds to the innate immune adaptor stimulator of interferon genes (STING) via a specific interface (E1119), leading to activation of STING and its downstream TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1), as well as pro-inflammatory gene expression. A STING-binding-deficient GNPTAB mutant (E1119A) preserved canonical lysosomal functions but failed to induce senescence, while STING depletion abolished GNPTAB-driven senescence. Together, these findings uncover a new signaling pathway wherein GNPTAB engages STING to facilitate its activation, nominating this interface as a potential target for mitigating age-related cellular dysfunction.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Higher Education Press.
Effective cancer immunotherapy is often hindered by V-domain Ig suppressor of T cell activation (VISTA) signaling and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) within tumor microenvironment (TME). Here, we report D-peptide-nanodrug conjugates that synergize VISTA blockade and innate activation to overcome these constraints. We developed Reorpn7, a proteolytically stable D-peptide VISTA inhibitor with high binding affinity and in vitro serum stability. This inhibitor was co-loaded with a toll-like receptor 7/8 (TLR7/8) agonist (R848) into an matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) responsive poly lactic-co-glycolic acid (PLGA) nanoplatform (r7PL-PLGA@R848). Upon enrichment in the TME, MMP-2 responsive cleavage enables the precise release of the VISTA-targeting peptide Reorpn7 and the TLR7/8 agonist R848, thereby achieving synergistic therapeutic effect of VISTA blockade and innate immune activation. In MC38 tumor models, this nanosystem significantly increased intratumoral CD8+ T cell infiltration and achieved robust antitumor efficacy without obvious systemic toxicity. Mechanistically, the platform reshaped the TME from an inhibitory milieu into an immunosupportive one by coordinating checkpoint blockade, myeloid reprogramming, and T cell recruitment. This stimuli-responsive paradigm offers a translatable strategy to overcome immune checkpoint blockade resistance in challenging malignancies.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The CGAS-STING1 pathway is an innate immune system that can detect double-stranded DNA in the cytoplasm and trigger antiviral immune responses. Increasing evidence indicates that CGAS-STING1 signaling can induce autophagy; however, the activation and potential role of the CGAS-STING1-dependent autophagy during RNA virus infection remain unclear. Here, we initially observed that cytosolic DNA acts as a potent inducer of CGAS-STING1-dependent autophagy. Unexpectedly, pre-activation of this pathway via DNA-CGAS-STING1 (1-340) transfection significantly promoted the replication of RNA viruses tested including SFTSV and enterovirus 71 (EV-71). Using SFTSV as a model to investigate the physiological trigger during infection, we demonstrated that SFTSV induces mitochondrial damage, leading to the leakage of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) into the cytoplasm. This endogenous mtDNA activates CGAS-STING1-dependent autophagy, which SFTSV then exploits for its replication. Indeed, depletion of mtDNA abolishes SFTSV-induced autophagy and impairs viral replication. Mechanistically, the SFTSV nucleoprotein directly interacts with STING1, hijacking STING1-derived membranes from the endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC) and Golgi apparatus to form its replication platform. Our study reveals a new host anti-RNA virus strategy, namely activating CGAS-STING1-dependent autophagy through cytosolic DNA, as well as the mechanism by which SFTSV hijacks CGAS-STING1-dependent autophagy for viral replication.Abbreviations: CGAS: cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ERGIC: endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediate compartment; EV-71: enterovirus 71; EtBr: ethidium bromide; Gn: glycoproteins N; IFN-I: type I interferon; KO: knockout; MOIs: multiplicities of infection; NP: nucleoprotein; NSs: non-structural proteins; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SFTSV: Severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome virus; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; VDAC1: voltage dependent anion channel 1; WT: wild-type; gDNA: genomic DNA; mtDNA: mitochondrial DNA.
Aortic aneurysm and dissection (AAD) is a life-threatening vascular disease that currently lacks effective pharmacological therapies. Clinical evidences suggest that aspirin may exert a protective effect on AAD, but the underlying molecular mechanism is still unclear at present.Three mouse animal models of AAD and H2O2-induced ferroptosis model in human aortic vascular smooth muscle cells were established. On this basis, RNA sequencing was performed to investigate potential molecular mechanisms, and further experiments were conducted using STING (stimulator of interferon genes) agonist to confirm the mechanisms.Aspirin was found to ameliorate the progression of AAD in the β-aminopropionitrile and CaPO4 mouse models. Interestingly, aspirin reduced mortality in mice but did not reduce the incidence of AAD in the β-aminopropionitrile + angiotensin II model. Furthermore, aspirin inhibited H2O2-induced ferroptosis in human aortic vascular smooth muscle cells and suppressed activation of cGAS (cyclic GMP-AMP synthase)-STING signaling pathway. Activation of STING with STING agonist markedly increased STING, TBK1 (TANK-binding kinase 1), and IRF3 (interferon regulatory factor 3) phosphorylation and abolished the protective effect of aspirin against H2O2-induced ferroptosis in human aortic vascular smooth muscle cells. Western blot and immunofluorescence results indicated significant activation of the cGAS-STING signaling pathway following treatment with STING agonist. Coimmunoprecipitation analysis revealed that cGAS acetylation was considerably enhanced in human aortic vascular smooth muscle cells after aspirin treatment. Additionally, administration of aspirin and dimeric amidobenzimidazole compound 3 showed that dimeric amidobenzimidazole abolished the protective effect of aspirin in the CaPO4 model. Coimmunoprecipitation results indicated that aspirin promoted cGAS acetylation in mouse aortic tissue. Western blot and immunohistochemistry results also confirmed that the dimeric amidobenzimidazole compound 3 activated phosphorylation of STING, TBK1, and IRF3 and significantly negatively regulated the expression of GPX4. In the β-aminopropionitrile model, dimeric amidobenzimidazole also abolished the protective effect of aspirin.Aspirin confers a protective effect against AAD by promoting cGAS acetylation and inhibiting the cGAS-STING signaling pathway and ferroptosis in VSMC.
The rapid emergence of drug-resistant influenza A virus (IAV) strains has severely limited the efficacy of current antiviral therapies, highlighting an urgent need for novel agents with distinct mechanisms of action. In this study, a series of 2-aminoquinoline derivatives were synthesized via a trimethylsilyl trifluoromethanesulfonate (TMSOTf) -catalyzed annulation strategy. Evaluation of their anti-influenza virus activity revealed that derivative 3g exhibited potent antiviral efficacy, low cytotoxicity, and a high selectivity index(SI), making it the most promising candidate in this series. In vitro investigations revealed that 3g primarily acted during the early-to-mid stages of viral replication, significantly suppressing the transcription and translation of viral nucleoprotein (NP) and matrix protein 2 (M2), thereby effectively blocking viral replication and protein synthesis. Furthermore, 3g inhibited virus-induced apoptosis, reduced excessive production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and nitric oxide (NO) triggered by viral infection, and markedly attenuated cytokine storm responses by suppressing the retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I)/Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3)-mediated signaling pathways. In vivo experiments confirmed that 3g significantly reduced viral loads in the lungs of infected mice, alleviated pulmonary histopathological damage, and downregulated inflammatory factor levels, while exhibiting good biosafety. Collectively, these results position derivative 3g as a promising compound for the development of novel anti-influenza therapies.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
Aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) is a mycotoxin that impairs the function of various vital organs of the body including testes. Prunin (PRU) is a plant derived flavonoid with potential pharmacological properties. The current research was performed to assess the potential role of PRU to counter AFB1-induced testicular toxicity in male albino rats. Forty-eight male rats (Weight: 230-250 g; Age: 8-10 week) were divided into four equal groups, including control, AFB1 (50 μg/kg) group, AFB1 + PRU (50 μg/kg + 20 mg/kg) co-treated group, and only PRU (20 mg/kg) group. The groups were treated with their respective doses for 56 days and then the rats were euthanized, samples were collected and biochemical as well as histopathological analyses were performed. The outcomes of our research showed that AFB1 upsurged the expressions of myeloid differentiation primary response 88 (MyD88), toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB). Moreover, AFB1 reduced the activities of antioxidant enzymes i.e., HO-1, GSR, GPx, CAT, SOD, while elevating ROS, MDA and inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, COX-2 and IL-6) levels. AFB1 intoxicated group showed notable reduction in the HOS coiled tail sperms and spermatogenic indices i.e., sperm motility, count and viability. Furthermore, AFB1 increased the structural defects in mid-piece, head and tail of sperms and lowered the levels of testosterone. AFB1 also induced histological injuries in the testicles of rats. Additionally, AFB1 lowered the expressions of Bcl-2 and steroidogenic enzymes and increased the expressions of Caspase-3 and Bax. However, PRU supplementation markedly recovered the testicular tissues from AFB1-induced injuries. Our findings proposed that PRU exhibits the protective effects against AFB1-instigated testicular toxicity due to its oxidative stress mitigating and TLR4/NF-κB pathway modulating properties.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42537739 is a review article
Lupus nephritis (LN), a severe complication of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), is closely associated with aberrant immune-inflammatory responses. Currently, reliable non-invasive biomarkers are lacking, and existing treatments remain limited. Targeting autoimmune and inflammatory pathways offers new therapeutic potential. Triptolide (TP), a diterpenoid triepoxide compound extracted from the traditional Chinese medicine Tripterygium wilfordii, exhibits potent immunosuppressive, anti-inflammatory, and anti-proteinuric effects, demonstrating remarkable efficacy in tumors, inflammation, autoimmune diseases, and kidney-related disorders. This study investigates the mechanism by which TP ameliorates LN through the hsa_circ_0001439/ELAVL1 axis to regulate TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) mRNA stability. In vitro (human renal tubular epithelial cell line) and in vivo (MRL/lpr mouse model) experiments were conducted. Renal function was assessed by measuring 24-hour urinary albumin, blood urea nitrogen, and serum creatinine levels. Serum levels of inflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interferon-gamma, and interleukin-2, were detected by ELISA. Renal histopathological changes were observed via hematoxylin-eosin and periodic acid-Schiff staining. The cytotoxicity of TP was determined using the cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assay. The expression of hsa_circ_0001439, ELAVL1, and TRAF6 mRNA was measured by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Protein expression of TRAF6 and its downstream pathway components (phosphorylated p65/p65, phosphorylated p38/p38) was detected by Western blot. Apoptosis was analyzed by flow cytometry, and intracellular reactive oxygen species levels were measured to assess oxidative damage. Immunoglobulin G and complement component 3 deposition were evaluated by immunofluorescence. The interactions among hsa_circ_0001439, ELAVL1, and TRAF6 were investigated using RNA pull-down, fluorescence in situ hybridization-immunofluorescence, RNA immunoprecipitation, and dual-luciferase reporter assays. TRAF6 mRNA stability was examined following Actinomycin D treatment. Bioinformatics analysis revealed upregulation of hsa_circ_0001439 in LN (P<0.05). TP improved renal function and histopathology in LN mice (P<0.05). Silencing hsa_circ_0001439 or ELAVL1 alleviated renal injury (P<0.05), while their overexpression reversed TP's therapeutic effects (P<0.05). Hsa_circ_0001439 bound to ELAVL1 to stabilize TRAF6 mRNA (P<0.05). In rescue experiments, TP reduced inflammation (P<0.05), but hsa_circ_0001439/ELAVL1 overexpression counteracted this effect (P<0.05). TRAF6 inhibition further mitigated oxidative damage (P<0.05), confirming TRAF6 as a key target. This study elucidates that TP alleviates LN by inhibiting TRAF6-driven inflammation via the hsa_circ_0001439/ELAVL1 axis, providing a potential therapeutic target for LN treatment.Copyright© 2025 Polish Physiological Society.
Cystic fibrosis (CF) airway disease is characterized by exaggerated inflammatory responses and progressive respiratory failure. Although interleukin-8 (IL-8) is a central mediator of neutrophilic inflammation in the CF airway, the upstream epithelial pathways that regulate cytokine production remain incompletely understood. Interleukin-17C (IL-17C) is an epithelial-derived IL-17 family cytokine that can promote inflammatory signaling in an autocrine/paracrine manner, but its regulation in CF-derived airway epithelial cells remains poorly defined. Here, we examined Toll-like receptor (TLR) ligand-induced IL-17C regulation in primary human airway epithelial cells derived from bronchial and small airway compartments, including normal human bronchial epithelial cells, CF-derived human bronchial epithelial cells, small airway epithelial cells (SAEC), and CF-derived SAEC (D-SAEC-CF). Among the ligands tested, polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid [poly(I:C)], a synthetic TLR3 ligand, consistently revealed differences in IL-17C and IL-8 induction between non-CF and CF-derived cells in both epithelial cell systems. Time-course analyses showed that poly(I:C)-induced IL-17C expression increased gradually and exhibited relatively delayed kinetics compared with the rapid interferon-β response, resembling IL-8 induction. Pharmacological inhibition indicated that c-Jun N-terminal kinase, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase, and nuclear factor-κB, but not extracellular signal-regulated kinase, were involved in poly(I:C)-induced IL-17C expression. Basal TLR3 and IL-17RE mRNA levels were elevated most clearly in D-SAEC-CF cells; however, IL-17RE knockdown did not significantly reduce poly(I:C)-induced IL-8 production in bronchial epithelial cells. Together, these findings suggest that poly(I:C)-induced IL-17C production may represent a TLR3-dependent epithelial inflammatory response in CF-derived primary airway epithelial cells.
Carboxyl terminus of HSC70-interacting protein (CHIP) serves as a quality control protein that involves in inflammation and immunity, bone remodeling and tumorigenesis. However, the role of CHIP in joint disease such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is less explored.Wild-type and Chip knockdown mice were used to establish a collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) model to assess arthritis progression through clinical index and histopathological markers (synovial hyperplasia, inflammatory infiltration and cartilage damage). SiRNA and lentivirus were respectively used to knockdown and overexpress CHIP in CIA fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS), investigating its regulatory effect on proliferation, migration, invasion and inflammation. Western blotting and immunofluorescence analysis were performed to assess the effect of CHIP on Tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) and to elucidate the underlying mechanism. Adeno-associated virus (AAV) mediated delivery of Chip was used to evaluate its therapeutic effects in CIA mice.CHIP significantly decreased in the synovium of CIA mice and RA patients compare to control. CHIP deficiency exacerbated synovial inflammation, cartilage degradation, and bone erosion in CIA, further underscoring its protective role in joint homeostasis. Moreover, knockdown of CHIP promoted the proliferation, migration and expression of inflammatory cytokines in CIA-FLS, while CHIP overexpression in CIA-FLS showed the opposite results. Mechanistically, CHIP interacted with TRAF6 and promoted the degradation of TRAF6. CHIP inhibited the migration and pro-inflammatory phenotypes of CIA-FLS via TRAF6/p65 pathway. Further, AAV mediated CHIP gene therapy by intra-articular administration effectively attenuated the progression of CIA by inhibiting the synovial inflammation and expression of TRAF6.Collectively, these findings demonstrated the critical regulatory role of CHIP in RA. Therefore, exploiting the protective effects of CHIP may represent a potential therapeutic strategy for RA.These findings not only advance our understanding of CHIP's regulatory role in RA but also highlight the value of genetic animal models in orthopaedic drug discovery.© 2026 The Authors.
The ubiquitin ligase protein tripartite-motif containing 56 (TRIM56) positively regulates Toll-like receptor-3 (TLR3) signaling by forming a complex with Toll-Interleukin-1 receptor domain-containing adapter protein inducing interferon (IFN)-beta (TRIF), independent of its E3 ligase activity. Whether TRIM56 modulates other TLR pathways in innate antiviral immunity, however, is unclear. Herein, we show ectopic expression of TRIM56 augments activation of IFN regulatory factor-3 (IRF3)-dependent promoters following stimulation by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in HEK293-TLR4-MD2-CD14 cells while leaving activation of NF-κB-dependent promoter unaffected, suggesting TRIM56 specifically promotes immune signaling through the TLR4-TRIF axis but not the MYD88 arm downstream of this TLR. Confirming its impact on endogenous antiviral responses in immune sentinel cells naturally harboring the TLR4 pathway, we demonstrated enforced expression of TRIM56 enhanced LPS-induced expression of IFN-beta and IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs) and establishment of an antiviral state in bone marrow-derived macrophages. Importantly, depletion of endogenous TRIM56 impaired LPS-induced antiviral gene expression and cellular antiviral defense. Altogether, these data add to understanding of the role of TRIM56 in TLR-mediated innate immune responses. Given that TRIM56 is an ISG and that many immune adjuvants and some viral proteins activate TLR4, the findings of this study could have implications for designing immunotherapies, especially those against viral infections.
Gastric cancer is strongly associated with chronic inflammation and dysregulated immune signaling. Molecules involved in purinergic and innate immune pathways, including Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3), P2Y purinoceptor 2 (P2RY2), and pannexin-1 (PANX1), may contribute to gastric cancer biology; however, their combined clinical relevance remains unknown. This study included 45 patients with gastric cancer and 45 healthy controls. The gene expression levels of TLR3, P2RY2, and PANX1 were analyzed using RT-PCR, and serum protein concentrations were measured using ELISA. Group comparisons, logistic regression, and ROC analyses were performed to evaluate the diagnostic performance. TCGA-STAD-based immune infiltration analyses were conducted using the TIMER platform, and prognostic significance was assessed using Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. Although alterations in gene expression were observed, none reached statistical significance. At the protein level, PANX1 was significantly elevated in patients with gastric cancer and was independently associated with disease status, whereas TLR3 and P2RY2 showed no significant circulating alterations. TIMER analysis demonstrated positive correlations between TLR3 and PANX1 expression and several immune cell populations, whereas P2RY2 expression showed predominantly negative correlations with immune cell infiltration. Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed that high PANX1 and TLR3 expression levels were associated with improved overall survival. ROC analyses indicated limited diagnostic accuracy for each marker. Collectively, our experimental findings provide evidence only for elevated circulating PANX1 in patients with gastric cancer. In contrast, the observations regarding TLR3 and P2RY2 were not statistically significant in our cohort and should therefore be considered exploratory and hypothesis-generating. Complementary bioinformatic analyses suggest that these molecules may participate in immune-related signaling pathways in gastric cancer; however, these observations require validation in independent tissue-based and larger prospective studies.
A fundamental constraint of conventional messenger RNA (mRNA) delivery systems is their obligatory trafficking through endosomal-lysosomal compartments, wherein cargo degradation and activation of endosomal Toll-like receptors precipitate substantial translational attrition and deleterious inflammatory cascades. We herein report a chemically engineered platform that circumvents these limitations ab initio. Through strategic perfluoro-acylation of branched polyethyleneimine (PEI, 25 kDa) with pentafluoropropionic anhydride, we install approximately 26 fluoro-amide "zipper" moieties per polymer chain that orchestrate direct, energy-independent trans-bilayer translocation without recruitment of clathrin, caveolae, or lipid raft microdomains-thereby precluding lysosomal entrapment and catabolism. Bio-orthogonal copper-free click chemistry between azide- and dibenzocyclooctyne (DBCO)-terminated PEI-F derivatives, coupled with redox-labile disulfide crosslinkers, engenders polyplexes of exceptional extracellular stability that undergo quantitative glutathione-triggered disassembly within the cytosolic milieu. This endosome-evasive entry mechanism effectively sequesters single-stranded mRNA from Toll-like receptor 3, TLR7, and TLR8 surveillance, establishing a "TLR-attenuated" delivery paradigm characterized by undetectable interferon-α, interferon-β, TNF-α, and IL-6 induction. In human umbilical vein endothelial cells, GFP-mRNA transfection exceeds 90% fluorescent positivity with 4.8-fold superior luciferase expression relative to Lipofectamine™ 3000, whilst maintaining >95% viability. Therapeutic translatability is demonstrated in a murine hindlimb ischemia model, wherein a single 10 μg intramuscular dose of mVEGF-A polyplexes restores blood perfusion to 118% of baseline within 28 days-representing marked superiority over the commercial gold standard and effectuating complete tissue salvage without necrosis. Comprehensive hematological and immunological profiling corroborates the absence of hematotoxicity, systemic inflammation, or innate immune activation. This modular, purely synthetic platform resolves the classical stability-availability paradox whilst eliminating the immunogenic liabilities inherent to endocytic delivery, furnishing a readily translatable scaffold for precision regenerative medicine.© 2026 The Author(s). Smart Molecules published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Dalian University of Technology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42500662 is a review article
Anterior uveitis (AU), an inflammatory uveal disease, can be classified as acute or chronic based on disease progression. In this study, we aimed to identify the genetic variants of HLA-B*27 anterior uveitis in patients presenting with either acute (AAU) or chronic (CAU) within the Northern Thai population. A case-control study was conducted involving three groups: 4 individuals with AAU, 6 with CAU, and 10 healthy controls. Whole exome sequencing was performed, and data were analyzed using descriptive statistics and Python-based tools for frequency comparison. Different genetic profiles were identified for AAU and CAU. Two exclusive variants, rs2437812 (located between ABCA1 and SLC44A1) and rs12525170 (PSORS1C1) emerged as candidate variants that may help differentiate acute from chronic AU. In CAU-related gene analysis, we identified 16 SNPs with a high frequency, especially rs361525 (Tumor necrosis factor; TNF), rs8193036 (Interleukin 17A; IL17A), and rs1800693 (TNF receptor superfamily member 1A; TNFRSF1A). Our study demonstrated different genetic profiles among HLA-B*27-associated AAU and CAU, suggesting that besides HLA-B*27 positivity, different genetic factors contribute to the disease development and progression. Further research involving larger cohorts may help validate these findings and clarify the role of these SNPs in early diagnosis and personalized management strategies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This study aimed to investigate the diagnostic value of the tear lymphotoxin-α (LTA) concentration for dry eye disease (DED).A total of 160 subjects-75 patients with DED, 55 individuals without DED, and 30 pain-without-stain patients were included. Ocular Surface Disease Index (OSDI), the tear LTA concentration, tear break-up time (TBUT), MMP-9, IL-1ra, IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, IL-17, and IFN-γ, and MUC5AC levels, corneal fluorescein staining (CFS), conjunctival lissamine green staining (CLGS), conjunctival impression cytology (IC), Schirmer I test, and conjunctival goblet cell counts were determined.Tear LTA concentration varied among the three groups, being the lowest in the DED group and the highest in the pain-without-stain group. The overall agreement rate between LTA diagnosis and expert consensus diagnose was 83.85%. The kappa coefficient was 0.670 (P < 0.001). Significant differences in tear LTA concentration were observed among all severity groups. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis revealed cutoff values of 105 pg/mL, 855 pg/mL, and 1580 pg.mL as an exploratory stratification thresholds for distinguishing the severe DED (LTA <105 pg/mL), mild DED (LTA 105 pg/mL to 855 pg/mL), non-DED (LTA 855 pg/mL to 1580 pg/mL), and pain-without-stain groups (LTA > 1580 pg/mL). Moreover, significant differences in the OSDI, the TBUT, CFS results, CLGS results, IC results, MMP-9, IL-1ra, IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, IL-17, IFN-γ, and MUC5AC concentrations were detected among the different LTA groups.Throughout the cohort, we explored the potential of tear LTA concentration for the diagnosis and graded classification diagnosis of dry eye.Tear LTA is a potential biomarker for the graded classification and subtyping of dry eye, and is expected to become a novel biomarker in the diagnosis and management of dry eye.
Naïve T cell output from the thymus varies across the human lifespan and is a key determinant of health, differing between individuals by age, sex, and genetics. How thymic output is dynamically regulated early in life in response to initial microbial colonization remains unclear. We report longitudinal thymic output dynamics, measured as T cell receptor excision circles (TRECs), in 136 newborns from Stockholm, Sweden. Thymic output increases after birth following initial microbial colonization, peaking at 3-4 mo. Peak height correlates with plasma levels of RANKL and lymphotoxin-α and with a common genetic variant in the TCRD locus previously linked to adult thymopoiesis. B cell lymphopoiesis measured by KRECs reveals divergent dynamics between B and T cell branches of the adaptive immune system in early life. Findings are corroborated by thymic tissue analyses, in which local RANKL secretion correlates with medullary, but not cortical, epithelial cell numbers. These results illuminate the establishment of healthy immune-microbe interactions in early human life.© 2026 Tan et al.
Vancomycin exacerbates kidney injury in a mouse model of LPS-induced sepsis. GFR is a more sensitive and earlier indicator of vancomycin-associated kidney injury than serum creatinine or BUN.Vancomycin (VAN) is widely used in sepsis but may exacerbate sepsis-associated AKI. The mechanisms by which VAN aggravates renal injury in the septic context remain unclear, and early functional changes are difficult to detect using conventional biomarkers.C57BL/6 mice were subjected to LPS-induced sepsis, VAN-induced nephrotoxicity, or combined injury. Renal function was continuously assessed using noninvasive percutaneous real-time GFR monitoring. Conventional renal injury markers, histopathology, and transcriptomic analyses were performed at 2, 24, and 72 hours.In septic mice, VAN administration caused an early and marked decline in GFR, preceding increases in serum creatinine and BUN. Compared with sepsis alone, combined LPS and VAN treatment resulted in more sustained renal dysfunction and more severe tubular injury. Transcriptomic profiling identified early and persistent upregulation of TNF receptor superfamily, member 1a and sustained upregulation of C-C motif chemokine ligand 20 in the combined injury model. Functional enrichment analyses revealed activation of inflammatory and immune-related pathways, including TNF signaling, cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, and immunoglobulin superfamily cell adhesion molecule signaling.Real-time GFR monitoring demonstrates that VAN exacerbates sepsis-associated AKI by inducing early functional impairment. Transcriptomic changes suggest that enhanced inflammatory signaling and immune cell recruitment contribute to VAN-aggravated renal injury in sepsis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. on behalf of the American Society of Nephrology.
This Mendelian randomization (MR) study aims to explore the causal relationships between 91 circulating inflammatory proteins and the incidence and prognosis of breast cancer. Data on exposures were derived from previously published articles, and outcome-related data were obtained from genome-wide association studies databases. The main causal estimates were obtained using the inverse variance weighting (IVW) method. Cochran Q and Rücker Q heterogeneity tests were performed using both IVW and MR-Egger methods. The Egger-intercept method was utilized for pleiotropy testing, single nucleotide polymorphism exclusion tests were conducted for sensitivity analysis, and the F-statistic was calculated to assess the presence of weak instrument bias. Finally, the Mendelian Randomization Pleiotropy RESidual Sum and Outlier method was used to validate the causal associations between circulating inflammatory factors and the incidence and prognosis of breast cancer. A comprehensive analysis of 91 circulating inflammatory proteins revealed their causal associations with the incidence and prognosis of breast cancer. β-Nerve growth factor (NGF), cystatin-C-8, C-X-C motif chemokine (CXCL) 5, IL 15 receptor alpha subunit, IL 22 receptor alpha-1 subunit, matrix metalloproteinase 1 (MMP1), and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligand superfamily member 12 showed a causal relationship with the incidence of breast cancer. A positive correlation was observed between β-NGF levels and breast cancer incidence, with an odds ratio (OR) (95% confidence interval (CI)) (IVW method) of 1.1713 (1.0347-1.3259). A negative correlation was found between the levels of cystatin-C-8, CXCL 5, IL 15 receptor alpha subunit, IL 22 receptor alpha-1 subunit, MMP1, and TNF ligand superfamily member 12 and breast cancer incidence, with OR (95% CI) (IVW method) values of 0.8238 (0.7206-0.9416), 0.9117 (0.8471-0.9812), 0.9297 (0.8684-0.9953), 0.8030 (0.6957-0.9269), 0.8580 (0.7719-0.9537), and 0.9175 (0.8437-0.9977), respectively. Furthermore, negative causal associations were found between the levels of C-C motif chemokine 19, IL 18 receptor 1, and TNF-β (also known as lymphotoxin-α) and breast cancer survival, with OR (95% CI) (IVW method) values of 0.8644 (0.7563-0.9880), 0.8565 (0.7786-0.9422), and 0.8889 (0.7940-0.9951), respectively. No pleiotropy was detected in any of the study results. This study elucidates the positive and negative causal relationships between 91 circulating inflammatory proteins and the onset and prognosis of breast cancer.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) is a chronic inflammatory skin disorder the development of which is driven by allergen sensitization in peripheral lymphoid organs and local cutaneous inflammation. Lymphotoxin (LT) and its receptor LTβR are critical for lymphoid organogenesis and immune regulation in barrier tissues, but their role in ACD pathogenesis remains incompletely defined. This study aimed to delineate differential contribution of the LTβR-dependent signaling in oxazolone-induced dermatitis. We examined Lta knockout (Lta KO) mice, which lack both soluble LTα3 and membrane-bound isoforms LTα1β2/LTα2β1, and the Ltbr knockout (Ltbr KO) mice, both of which lack lymph nodes. ACD was induced by repeated oxazolone application to ear skin, with assessment of clinical severity, inflammation-associated gene expression, serum IgE levels, and immune cell composition in blood and spleen. Contrary to previous reports, the Lta KO mice developed dermatitis comparable to the wild-type (WT) mice, with elevated IgE production. In contrast, the Ltbr KO mice were substantially protected from the disease, exhibiting attenuated clinical inflammation, reduced ear swelling, and decreased Tslp expression in the lesional skin at the background of a lower proportion of circulating CD4+ T cells. These findings indicate that LTβR-dependent signaling is pathogenic in allergic skin inflammation, while LTα-mediated pathways are dispensable, suggesting a potential role for the other LTβR ligand, LIGHT, in ACD pathogenesis. Notably, ACD developed even in the absence of lymph nodes, highlighting the importance of local, skin-resident LTβR-dependent mechanisms in the disease development.
Lymphotoxin alpha (LTα) is a potent inflammatory cytokine implicated in the pathophysiology of numerous human autoimmune and inflammatory diseases. Existing as a soluble homotrimer (LTα3) or membrane-bound heterotrimer (LTα1β2), the differential and distinct functions of lymphotoxin signaling have meant that selective targeting of the cytokine with traditional pharmacological agents has proven difficult. While monoclonal antibodies that can neutralize human LTα3in vivo do exist (e.g., pateclizumab), their efficacy and subsequent use within the clinic have been limited. This may be in part perhaps due to cross-reactivity between the homotrimeric and heterotrimeric forms, leading to LTα3-independent effects. Herein, we implement a counter-Systematic Evolution of Ligands by Exponential Enrichment (SELEX) protocol to enrich aptamers targeting LTα3 but not LTα1β2. Through a combination of in silico and in vitro tests, we also refine the aptamer sequences and test their ability to limit LT⍺3-TNFR1 engagement and subsequent cellular cytotoxicity in L929 fibroblasts. We highlight the generation of 4 aptamer candidates that can selectively detect LTα3 but not LTα1β2. Using rational design, we optimize the sequences and show that LTa1 and LTa5 can significantly reduce LTa3-TNFR1 engagement-associated cytotoxicity in vitro, highlighting their future therapeutic potential. These data highlight aptamers for the future investigation of lymphotoxin signaling, limiting off-target impacts on other LT⍺3-dependent mechanisms.© 2026 The Author(s).
This study aims to investigate the correlation between ocular surface characteristics and tear Lymphotoxin-alpha (LTA) levels in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) patients at different disease durations, in order to explore the potential role of LTA as a biomarker for the pathogenesis of diabetic dry eye syndrome (DES).This retrospective controlled study evaluated ocular surface function in 90 subjects from June 2023 to June 2025: Group A (T2DM ≤ 5 years), Group B (T2DM > 5 years) as the study groups, and a control group (non-DM), 30 per group. Masked researchers assessed ocular surface indicators [Ocular Surface Disease Index (OSDI) score, non-invasive tear meniscus height (NTMH), non-invasive first tear film break-up time (NITBUTf), non-invasive average tear film break-up time (NITBUTav), meibomian gland loss score, eyelid margin assessment (EMS), corneal fluorescein staining score (CFS), and the Schirmer's I test (SIt)]. Tear LTA concentration was detected using immunochromatography. The relationships between the duration of T2DM and different parameters were assessed using Spearman's correlation method.The control group had higher tear LTA levels (1.79 ± 0.32 ng/mL) than both T2DM groups (Group A: 0.64 ± 0.14 ng/mL; Group B: 0.51 ± 0.12 ng/mL; P < 0.05). Ocular surface function (NTMH, NITBUTf, NITBUTav and SIt) declined, while symptom and sign scores (OSDI, EMS and CFS) increased in T2DM groups, worsening in Group B (P < 0.05). DES prevalence was higher in Group A (26.67%) and Group B (53.33%) than controls (6.67%) (P < 0.05). Tear LTA levels showed a strong negative correlation with T2DM duration, OSDI, meibomian loss, EMS, and CFS (all P < 0.05), but positively with NTMH, NITBUTf, NITBUTav, and SIt (all P < 0.05).Ocular surface function in patients with T2DM deteriorates with the prolongation of disease duration. The decrease in tear LTA level may be associated with the immune imbalance mechanism of diabetic DES.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Fibroblasts have emerged as inflammatory entities in ulcerative colitis (UC) and eosinophilic oesophagitis, positioning these cells as attractive therapeutic targets. Previous studies have shown that hydroxylase inhibitors elicit anti-inflammatory responses, but their effects on fibroblasts during inflammation remain unknown. Here we test the effects of hydroxylase inhibitors on TNFSF14/LIGHT-driven inflammation in intestinal and oesophageal fibroblasts. Human endoscopic biopsies were obtained from paired inflamed or non-inflamed areas of active UC patients. Primary human colonic and oesophageal fibroblasts from healthy donors were pre-treated with hydroxylase inhibitors and/or treated with LIGHT. Flow cytometry, qRT-PCR, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays, immunoblotting, immunofluorescence and RNAseq were used. LIGHT induced inflammatory responses in intestinal fibroblasts predominantly via lymphotoxin β receptor (LTβR), which was more highly expressed than herpes virus entry mediator in UC biopsies and colonic fibroblasts. A comparative analysis of the response to LIGHT between colonic and oesophageal fibroblasts revealed unique transcriptional profiles and a shared inflammatory gene programme. Pretreatment with hydroxylase inhibitors had a selective inhibitory effect on the expression of several LIGHT-mediated inflammatory factors in colonic and oesophageal fibroblasts. Mechanistic studies revealed differential molecular targets as LIGHT-driven non-canonical nuclear factor-κB activity was targeted by hydroxylase inhibitors in oesophageal but unaffected in colonic fibroblasts. While dimethyloxalylglycine (DMOG) abrogated LIGHT-induced p38 phosphorylation in colonic fibroblasts, p38 inhibitors did not phenocopy the anti-inflammatory effects of DMOG. In summary, we established a previously unrecognised LIGHT/LTβR-driven inflammatory response in intestinal fibroblasts and characterised differential effects and pathways for LIGHT signalling in intestinal and oesophageal fibroblasts. We identified therapeutic effects of hydroxylase inhibitors via targeting of distinct pathways in these cells. KEY POINTS: LIGHT induces partially conserved inflammatory responses in colonic and oesophageal fibroblasts. Hydroxylase inhibitors selectively diminish LIGHT-mediated inflammation in both types of fibroblasts. Dimethyloxalylglycine reduces accumulation of the non-canonical nuclear factor-κB member p52 in oesophageal fibroblasts. The mechanism whereby hydroxylase inhibitors reduce LIGHT-mediated inflammation in colonic fibroblasts remains to be elucidated.© 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Physiology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Physiological Society.
High endothelial venules (HEVs) play a crucial role in adaptive immune responses in secondary lymphoid organs (SLOs). They are equipped with high amounts of peripheral node addressin (PNAd), harboring carbohydrate structures that serve as L-selectin ligands to efficiently facilitate lymphocyte homing. During inflammation, the HEV network expands in SLOs, increasing lymphocyte infiltration, but the underlying mechanisms that maintain HEVs remain underexplored. Here, we report that autophagy is essential for HEV function and expansion. Using single-cell transcriptomics, unbiased proteomics, intravital imaging, and an inducible HEV tracer system in mice, we demonstrate that autophagy deficiency compromises lymphotoxin beta receptor (LTβR) signaling and the unfolded protein response in HEVs, leading to disrupted PNAd production, dedifferentiation, and reduced lymphocyte homing. Autophagy deficiency and LTβR blockade impair HEV function and reduce skin inflammation in psoriasis-affected mice by limiting immune infiltration and cytokine release. Our work reveals that autophagy safeguards HEV identity and function during inflammation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42377217 is a review article
Backgrounds: Tertiary lymphoid structures (TLSs) are increasingly recognized as modulators of anti-tumor immunity, yet their clinical relevance in bladder cancer remains incompletely understood, partly owing to heterogeneity in their maturation states. Here, we demonstrate that germinal center (GC)-like TLS maturity, rather than TLS presence alone, is closely associated with immune activation and therapeutic response to Programmed Death-Ligand 1 (PD-L1) blockade in bladder cancer. The objective of this study was to systematically investigate the clinical significance, biological function, and therapeutic potential of tertiary lymphoid structure (TLS) maturation in bladder cancer. Specifically, we aimed to determine whether GC-like TLS maturity provides prognostic and predictive value beyond TLS presence alone, to elucidate the immune programs and tumor microenvironment remodeling associated with TLS maturation, and to explore whether TLS maturation can be therapeutically induced to enhance responsiveness to PD-L1 blockade. Methods: We performed an integrative analysis combining multi-cohort transcriptomics, spatially resolved histopathology, single-cell RNA sequencing, and functional murine experiments. TLS maturation states were defined using gene-expression-based GC-like TLS signatures and validated through multiplex immunohistochemistry. Clinical relevance was assessed in public immunotherapy cohorts and an independent neoadjuvant PD-L1-treated muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) cohort. Tumor immune microenvironment remodeling and chemokine-mediated cellular crosstalk were analyzed using deconvolution, Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA), and CellChat. The therapeutic inducibility of TLS maturation was examined using a lymphotoxin-β receptor (LTβR) agonist in combination with PD-L1 blockade in a syngeneic bladder cancer model. Results: Across multiple transcriptomic cohorts, tumors enriched for GC-like TLS signatures exhibited significantly prolonged survival and higher objective response rates to anti-PD-L1 therapy, whereas less mature TLS phenotypes showed no consistent association with clinical association. These observations were independently validated in a neoadjuvant PD-L1-treated muscle-invasive bladder cancer cohort, in which high mature TLS density was associated with major pathological response and prolonged event-free survival, outperforming PD-L1 expression. Integrative histopathological and transcriptomic analyses indicated that GC formation marks a functional transition linking humoral immune programs with cytotoxic effector activity and shaping a memory-prone, pro-inflammatory tumor immune microenvironment. Chemokine signaling via the CC chemokine ligand 21 (CCL21)-C-C chemokine receptor type 7 (CCR7) and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 12 (CXCL12)-C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4) axes was strongly associated with TLS maturation and spatial organization. Finally, in a syngeneic bladder cancer model, pharmacological activation of lymphotoxin-β receptor signaling promoted TLS maturation and enhanced the antitumor efficacy of PD-L1 blockade. Conclusions: Together, these findings suggest that GC-like TLS maturity represents a clinically relevant biomarker and a potential therapeutic entry point for precision immunotherapy in bladder cancer. Therapeutic strategies that promote TLS maturation may convert immune-cold tumors into checkpoint-responsive states, providing a mechanistically grounded precision immunotherapy approach.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is driven by complex inflammatory processes in which neutrophil dysregulation plays a central role. Isonicotinylation (Kinic), a novel lysine acylation modification linked to cellular metabolism, has not yet been clearly associated with COPD.We employed an artificial intelligence (AI)-driven, multi-omics framework. First, the Limma, WGCNA, and CIBERSORT algorithms were used to identify a Kinic- and neutrophil (KN)-associated shared molecular signature in the peripheral blood bulk profiles of COPD patients. Next, NMF and explainable machine learning identified molecular subgroups and developed a diagnostic model for COPD patients based on the KN-associated gene signature. In addition, a KN-associated pathogenic hub factor was identified, and its molecular and immune signatures in COPD were assessed using a cutting-edge analytical framework in spatial and temporal manners. An AI-based drug screening platform (DrugReflector) and molecular docking were used to identify therapeutic candidates. Finally, Lymphotoxin-beta (LTB) expression was validated in vitro using q-RT-PCR assays.We identified a robust five-gene KN-associated signature that demonstrated diagnostic and patient-stratification potential in COPD. LTB was identified as an upregulated Kinic-associated hub gene mainly distributed in neutrophils and involved in the regulation of COPD pathogenesis. Notably, BRD-K97481123 was identified as a potential LTB-targeting compound for the treatment of COPD.This study unveils a novel KN-associated molecular axis in COPD pathogenesis, with LTB as a neutrophil-centric pathogenic factor. This axis provides a framework for patient stratification, offers a promising diagnostic biomarker, and identifies a potential therapeutic target, thereby linking a novel metabolic modification to neutrophilic inflammation in COPD.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Li, Zhou, Xiang and Lin.
Radiotherapy is important for advanced and metastatic gastric cancer (GC), but radioresistance limits its benefit. Pyroptosis has emerged as a potential strategy to overcome radioresistance, yet its regulatory mechanisms remain unclear. Using LC-MS/MS-based proteomic profiling of tumor tissues from patients with GC treated with neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy, we identified tumor-intrinsic lymphotoxin beta receptor (LTβR), previously considered mainly an immune cell membrane protein, as a candidate determinant of poor radiotherapy response. Functional studies in GC cell lines, xenografts, and patient-derived organoids (PDOs) showed that LTβR depletion enhanced radiosensitivity, whereas LTβR overexpression promoted radioresistance. Integrated RNA-seq, Ribo-seq, and polysome profiling showed that LTβR loss reduced translational efficiency of SARM1 under irradiation. Mechanistically, irradiation increased LTβR stability in a glycosylation-dependent manner and promoted nuclear translocation. In the nucleus, LTβR enhanced TRIM28-mediated SUMOylation of PCBP2, promoting cytoplasmic redistribution of PCBP2 and increased translational efficiency of SARM1. Consistently, LTβR suppressed irradiation-induced pyroptosis through the NLRP3/caspase-1/GSDMD pathway. We further identified EMD638683 as an LTβR-binding compound through structure-based virtual screening, and showed that cRGD-modified liposomes improved its tumor-targeted delivery and enhanced LTβR reduction, radiosensitization, and tumor suppression in PDO and xenograft models. Together, these findings highlight LTβR as a promising therapeutic target to improve radiotherapy efficacy in GC.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
The major barrier to clinical translation of αCD137 immunotherapy is separating antitumor efficacy from hepatotoxicity driven by IFN-γ-producing CD8 T cells. We propose a strategy to limit toxicity by promoting contraction of excessively expanded CD8 T cells. We identify CD11c+KLRG1+ effector CD8 T cells (CD11c+TE) as the primary source of IFN-γ, recirculating between blood and secondary lymphoid organs (SLOs), where they undergo apoptosis during contraction. We show that lymphotoxin β receptor (LTβR) signaling restrains this contraction. Mechanistically, lymphotoxin-expressing B cells activate LTβR in fibroblastic reticular cells (FRCs), suppressing apoptosis of CD11c+TE cells in the spleen and sustaining their systemic circulation and liver infiltration. Pharmacological LTβR blockade abrogates hepatotoxicity by reducing the accumulation of IFN-γ-producing CD11c+TE cells while preserving tumor-specific CD8 T cell responses. These findings identify LTβR as a key regulator of effector CD8 T cell persistence and support the use of LTβR antagonists to improve the safety of αCD137-based immunotherapy.
The western flower thrips (WFT), Frankliniella occidentalis (Pergande) (Thysanoptera: Thripidae), is a globally significant pest causing severe damage to a wide range of crops. Although RNA interference (RNAi) technology enables species-specific pest control through targeted gene silencing, the limited number of validated efficient RNAi target genes has hindered practical application of RNAi for WFT management. This study aims to screen and identify effective RNAi target genes in WFT using an optimized oral delivery system. We selected 15 candidate target genes based on homologous sequences from closely related insect species. DsRNAs targeting these genes were synthesized and fed to WFT nymphs and adults. Mortality and fecundity were monitored at 24, 48, and 72 h post feeding. Feeding on the dsRNAs of six genes (V-type proton ATPase catalytic subunit A, V-type proton ATPase catalytic subunit B, Neuropeptide F receptor, Maltase A1, sorting and assembly machinery component 50 homolog, toll-like receptor 6) significantly increased mortality in WFT nymphs and adults, with a higher lethal effects observed in nymphs. Notably, toll-like receptor 6 knock-down resulted in the highest mortality, and the daily fecundity of adult WFT fed with dsRNA targeting Neuropeptide F receptor for 72 h increased significantly. Expression analysis confirmed significant down-regulation of these 6 target genes by dsRNA. This study identified six high-efficacy target genes for RNAi-based WFT management, establishing a foundation for developing environmentally sustainable RNAi biopesticides.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Although toll-like receptor 6 (TLR6) plays an important role in innate immunity and host antiviral responses, its impact on pegylated interferon-alpha (PegIFNα) treatment efficacy in chronic hepatitis B (CHB) remains unclear. We aimed to investigate whether genetic variations of TLR6 are associated with the response to PegIFNα treatment. This study included 945 HBeAg-positive CHB patients treated with PegIFNα for at least 48 weeks and followed for 24 weeks from two multicenter phase IV trials (Cohort 1, n = 238; Cohort 2, n = 707). Across the TLR6 gene, 13 tag-SNPs were selected. Furthermore, a polygenic score (PGS) was developed by incorporating the newly identified variant of TLR6 and two previously reported SNPs (CD55_rs28371597 and CXCR4_rs28367495). Both TLR6 tag-SNPs and PGS were tested their associations with treatment efficacy. Among the 13 tag-SNPs, TLR6_rs7696175 (C > T) was identified as the most significantly associated variant with HBsAg decline at week 72 in both cohorts. The T allele of TLR6_rs7696175 was significantly associated with greater HBsAg decline, especially higher rates of decline ≥ 1 log10 IU/mL and ≥ 2 log10 IU/mL at week 72 (Cohort 1 + 2: p ≤ 0.001 for all associations). Moreover, the PGS integrating TLR6_rs7696175 and two previously reported SNPs significantly improved prediction accuracy for HBsAg decline at week 72 (Cohort 1 + 2: p < 0.001 for all comparisons) and outperformed single SNPs. Overall, this study identifies TLR6_rs7696175 as a novel genetic biomarker and demonstrates the superiority of a compact PGS for predicting HBsAg decline in PegIFNα-treated CHB patients, facilitating personalized treatment for CHB.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
In PINK1 (PTEN induced kinase 1)/PRKN (Parkin)-mediated mitophagy, the rupture of the outer mitochondrial membrane (OMM) emerges as a crucial event required for efficient mitochondrial clearance. Mechanistically, OMM rupture exposes inner mitochondrial membrane (IMM) mitophagy receptors, facilitating subsequent autophagic removal. Despite the important role of OMM rupture in mitophagy, the underlying mechanism remains elusive and technically difficult to monitor. In a recent study, we developed a novel fluorescent biosensor to directly visualize OMM rupture. This technique enables temporal and spatial characterization of OMM rupture and provides a powerful platform to dissect the underlying mechanism. Using this tool, we revealed that VCP (valosin containing protein) and its recruitment factors are required for OMM rupture, suggesting that VCP-dependent remodeling of the OMM proteome primes the rupture of OMM during mitophagy. Abbreviations: ARIH1, Ariadne RBR E3 ubiquitin protein Ligase 1; AMFR, autocrine motility factor receptor; ANKRD13A, ankyrin repeat domain-containing protein 13 A; FUNDC1, FUN14 domain containing 1; OA, oligomycin and antimycin; CID, chemical-induced dimerization; IMM, nner mitochondrial membrane; LC3, microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; MUL1, mitochondrial E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1; NIX, BCL2 interacting protein 3 like; OMM, outer mitochondrial membrane; UBXN1, ubiquitin regulatory X domain-containing protein 1; UBXN6, ubiquitin regulatory X domain-containing protein 6; VCP, valosin-containing protein; WIPI2, WD repeat domain phosphoinositide interacting protein 2.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.
Genetic mutations in retinol dehydrogenase 5 (RDH5) are associated with the inherited autosomal recessive retinal degeneration diseases, especially fundus albipunctatus (FA). Most of RDH5 mutants exhibit downregulation of RDH5 protein expression. However, the regulatory mechanism remains unclear. Here, we studied the metabolism of RDH5/L310delinsEV mutation, an indel mutation closely associated with the inherited FA disease. The half-life of RDH5/L310delinsEV was much less than RDH5/WT. Unlike RDH5/WT, which normally underwent degradation in autophagy-lysosomes, the RDH5/L310delinsEV reduced its location to the endoplasmic reticulum and was easy to be polyubiquitinated and degraded in the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Both RDH5/WT and RDH5/L310delinsEV interacted with autocrine motility factor receptor (AMFR), which is an E3 ligase on the endoplasmic reticulum. Overexpression of or knockdown of AMFR by siRNA increased or reduced the degradation of RDH5/L310delinsEV. The lysine 179 and lysine 263 of RDH5/L310delinsEV protein were polyubiquitination sites by AMFR. Mutation of K179R and K263R in RDH5/L310delinsEV protein reduced AMFR-mediated polyubiquitination and degradation. Taken together, these results highlight that RDH5/L310delinsEV mutant in RDH5 causes a rapid degradation in the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. The fast degradation of RDH5/L310delinsEV may be associated with the FA development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) partners with specificity Protein 1 (SP1) or signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) to modulate the transcription of growth arrest-specific 6 (GAS6) and early growth response protein 1 (EGR1), necessitating mediators to avoid feedback. Based on binding and stemness data, high mobility group A1 (HMGA1) and Small Mother Against Decapentaplegic3 (SMAD3) were identified as potential mediators in this context. While the SMAD3-P300-STAT3 complex facilitates SMAD3-STAT3 crosstalk, it remains unclear whether the PD-L1-HMGA1-SP1 or PD-L1-SMAD3-SP1 complexes bind to GAS6 and EGR1 promoters to regulate their transcription.MG63 osteosarcoma cells and SW620 colon cancer cells with unidentified nuclear PD-L1 function were chosen for our study. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and co-immunoprecipitation assays were performed to evaluate SP1, HMGA1, SMAD3, STAT3, P300 and PD-L1 (also denoted CD274) enrichment at the GAS6 and EGR1 promoters; the existence of the PD-L1-(HMGA1 or SMAD3)-SP1 complexes; whether P300 binds to STAT3; and whether HMGA1 and SMAD3 bind to P300. The alterations in GAS6, EGR1 and PD-L1 mRNA levels after their combined over-expression and/or knockdown were assessed via qPCR. Two representative target genes identified via PD-L1 chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP)-seq were examined to determine whether HMGA1 and SMAD3 were enriched at their promoters.PD-L1, HMGA1, SMAD3, SP1, P300 and STAT3 were enriched at GAS6 and EGR1 promoters in two cell lines. HMGA1 or SMAD3 antibody pulled down PD-L1 and SP1; PD-L1 antibody pulled down HMGA1, SMAD3 and SP1; P300 antibody pulled down STAT3; and, surprisingly, HMGA1 and SMAD3 antibodies pulled down P300. Combined over-expression or knockdown significantly altered GAS6, EGR1 and PD-L1 mRNA levels. PD-L1 ChIP-seq indicated 114 target genes, among which PD-L1 and beta-transducin repeat containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase (BTRC) were chosen to verify the promoter enrichment of HMGA1 and SMAD3.Our study provides initial evidence that PD-L1 might form HMGA1- and SMAD3-dependent complexes to bind the GAS6, EGR1 and CD274 promoters, thus modulating the transcription of GAS6, EGR1 and PD-L1 mRNA in cancer and sarcoma cells.© 2025 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
This work explores how Autocrine Motility Factor Receptor (AMFR)-driven ubiquitination of Family with Sequence Similarity 134 Member B (FAM134B) in hypoxia adaptation and endoplasmic reticulum-selective autophagy (ER-phagy) in osteosarcoma (OS), aiming to develop a stimuli-responsive nanoplatform (S-SNACs@TPZ@Cas-A) for targeted therapy. Transcriptomic analysis identifies the AMFR-FAM134B axis as crucial for OS survival under hypoxic conditions. The nanoplatform, thoroughly characterized via established methods, co-delivers CRISPR-Cas9 RNP and tirapazamine to disrupt AMFR and enhance reactive oxygen species production, inhibiting tumor growth in mouse models. In vitro assays confirm decreased FAM134B ubiquitination and ER-phagy inhibition. In vivo, S-SNACs@TPZ@Cas-A reduces tumor volume, metastasis, and enhances immune response without significant toxicity. Second near-infrared window imaging validates targeted drug delivery. This approach provides a precise strategy to disrupt hypoxia tolerance in OS and potentially other hypoxia-tolerant tumors, offering promise for improved therapeutic outcomes.© 2025. The Author(s).
Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs), including PD-L1 inhibitors, have been approved by the FDA for the treatment of cancers; however, only a small number of cancer patients benefit from these ICIs. Furthermore, the development of drug resistance to this type of treatment is often inevitable. The mechanisms of resistance to PD-L1 inhibitors can be attributed, in part, to an incomplete understanding of the regulation of PD-L1 protein expression. In this study, we identified the role of the E3 ligase GP78, also known as the Autocrine Motility Factor Receptor (AMFR), in the regulation of PD-L1 protein levels. We show that GP78 physically interacts with PD-L1, which is confirmed by IP and Western blotting and is supported by molecular modelling using AlphaFold2. Our modeling studies predict that the interface amino acids of the Ig1 domain of PD-L1 interact with the RING domain and a β-hairpin preceding the CUE domain of GP78. The crystal structure of the PD-1/PD-L1 complex reveals that the interaction with PD-1 is mediated by the Ig1 domain of PD-L1. Furthermore, proteasomal degradation of PD-L1 has been observed via GP78-mediated K48-linked ubiquitination, indicating a key regulatory role for GP78 in the downregulation of PD-L1. Because GP78 expression is inversely correlated with PD-L1 levels in cancer, these findings may have clinical implications for predicting tumor immune evasion and patient response to PD-1/PD-L1 blockade therapies. Taken together, these findings identify a previously unknown mechanism by which GP78 targets PD-L1 for ubiquitination and subsequent degradation in cancer cells, and suggest that blocking the interaction between PD-L1 and PD-1 by an E3 ligase is a novel strategy to improve immunotherapies for cancer patients.
Sepsis is a life-threatening organ dysfunction syndrome triggered by infection and uncontrolled inflammatory responses, with sepsis-associated myocardial dysfunction being a leading cause of mortality and morbidity. Metformin, a widely prescribed antihyperglycemic drug, has shown emerging protective effects beyond glucose control. In this study, we investigated the protective role of metformin against LPS-induced injury and inflammation in H9C2 and AC16 cardiomyocytes and explored the underlying mechanisms. LPS stimulation significantly reduced cell viability, promoted apoptosis, and upregulated proinflammatory cytokines (TNFα, IL-6, and IL-1β) in H9C2 and AC16 cells. Metformin treatment markedly alleviated these effects, indicating its protective role against LPS-induced cytotoxicity and inflammation. Mechanistically, metformin significantly upregulated microRNA miR-497-5p, which directly suppressed β-transducin repeat containing E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase (BTRC) expression, leading to inhibition of IκBα degradation and NF-κB pathway activation. Importantly, miR-497-5p knockdown or BTRC overexpression partially reversed the protective effects of metformin, restoring NF-κB signaling and inflammatory cytokine production. These findings collectively demonstrate that metformin protects H9C2 and AC16 cardiomyocytes from LPS-induced injury through miR-497-5p/BTRC axis-mediated suppression of NF-κB activation and highlight the functional importance of miR-497-5p and BTRC in this regulatory process. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: This study highlights the protective effects of metformin against LPS-induced H9C2 and AC16 cell injury and inflammation, revealing a novel mechanism involving miR-497-5p/BTRC axis-mediated NF-κB pathway inhibition. These findings offer insights into potential therapeutic strategies for sepsis-associated myocardial dysfunction.Copyright © 2025 American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Osteoporosis is characterized by decreased bone mass and disrupted microarchitecture. Gut microbiota-derived factors may regulate bone homeostasis. This study investigated the effects and mechanisms of Lacticaseibacillus rhamnosus LGG, conditioned medium (LCM) on osteoclastogenesis and bone loss. RANKL-induced osteoclast differentiation in bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMMs) was assessed by TRAP staining, F-actin ring imaging, resorption pit assay, qRT-PCR, and Western blotting. Ovariectomized (OVX) mice received oral LCM for 8 weeks. Bone architecture was analyzed by micro-CT and histology (H&E, TRAP, immunohistochemistry). Serum bone turnover markers and toxicity indicators were measured by ELISA. Transcriptome sequencing was performed on LCM-treated BMMs, followed by differential expression and KEGG enrichment analyses. Pathway involvement was validated via pharmacological inhibition. LCM demonstrated favorable biocompatibility while significantly reducing TRAP-positive cell number, F-actin ring formation, and bone resorption area in RANKL-treated BMMs. The expression of osteoclastogenic markers was markedly downregulated. In OVX mice, LCM treatment preserved the trabecular microarchitecture of lumbar vertebrae and femur, increased BV/TV, Tb.Th, and Tb.N, and reduced osteoclast number. Serum bone resorption marker (β-CTx) decreased, while bone formation markers (BALP and P1NP) showed no significant change. No adverse effects were observed in body weight or liver and kidney function indices. Transcriptome analysis revealed NF-κB pathway suppression. Western blotting confirmed that LCM reduced phosphorylation of IKKα, IκBα, and p65. Regulation of TLR6 can restore NF-κB activation and osteoclast function. LCM alleviates bone loss by inhibiting osteoclastogenesis mediated via the TLR6/NF-κB signaling pathway. LGG shows promise as a potential therapeutic agent, warranting further clinical investigation.© 2025. The Author(s).
Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS) is characterized by decreased BMD, which is associated with an increased risk of skeletal fragility and poor long-term outcomes. This study explores the role of the Caspase Recruitment Domain Family, Member 14 (CARD14) gene in osteoclast (OC) differentiation and its contribution to bone metabolism dysregulation in AIS patients. RNA sequencing of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from AIS patients identified significantly elevated CARD14 expression compared to controls. Functional in vitro assays demonstrated enhanced osteoclastogenesis in PBMC-derived cells from AIS patients, as evidenced by an increase in tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP)-positive multinucleated cells and resorption pit formation. To further elucidate CARD14's role, adenoviral vectors were constructed to overexpress CARD14 in BM-derived macrophages from C57/B6 mice, leading to markedly increased OC differentiation and activity. Next, we utilized BM-specific Card14 KO mice to investigate the in vivo role of CARD14. These mice exhibited reduced OC activity, improved trabecular bone microarchitecture, and increased BMD, as evidenced by micro-CT and histological analyses. Additionally, serum biomarkers of bone metabolism further corroborated these findings. Mechanistically, CARD14 was found to interact with Myelocytomatosis viral oncogene homolog (MYC) and regulate OC differentiation through a MYC-dependent pathway, while simultaneously activating NF-κB and MAPK signaling, which are critical for osteoclastogenesis. Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis patients consistently showed lower BMD and higher OC counts than age-matched controls, establishing a link between abnormal OC function and bone loss in AIS. The results highlight that elevated CARD14 expression promotes osteoclastogenesis and bone resorption, contributing to reduced BMD in AIS. Targeting CARD14 and its associated signaling pathways may represent a novel therapeutic approach to address bone density loss in AIS patients, potentially improving their skeletal health and quality of life.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Neodymium oxide (Nd2O3), a rare-earth oxide, has been shown to induce lung fibrosis. Our previous research indicated that glycolysis plays a key role in the occurrence and development of lung fibrosis following exposure to Nd2O3. Nevertheless, the role of lactate-mediated histone lactylation, a metabolic product of glycolysis, in lung fibrosis remains unclear. In the present study, we used a co-culture model of macrophage-like cells (THP-M) treated with Nd2O3 and human embryonic lung fibroblasts (HELF). We found that Nd2O3 significantly increases glycolytic activity, lactate production, and global protein lactylation (pan-Kla), particularly the lactylation of histone H4 at lysine 12 (H4K12la) in macrophages. Chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing and chromatin immunoprecipitation-quantitative polymerase chain reaction showed that lactylation modification in the promoter region of the phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunit 2 (PIK3R2) gene in macrophages was significantly enriched. This enrichment was accompanied by upregulation of PIK3R2, activation of the PI3K/Akt/mTOR-signaling pathway, and increased secretion of transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1). Further experiments showed that knockdown of PIK3R2 reversed the Nd2O3-induced profibrotic phenotype in macrophages, thereby significantly inhibiting TGF-β1 secretion and fibroblast activation and proliferation. Treatment with 2-deoxy-d-glucose (2-DG) inhibited glycolytic lactate production in THP-M cells, leading to reductions in overall histone lactylation, H4K12la levels, PIK3R2 expression, and TGF-β1 secretion. In addition, 2-DG also suppressed the PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway and reversed fibrosis. Altogether, our findings reveal the role of histone lactylation in Nd2O3-induced macrophage-fibroblast interactions and elucidate the molecular mechanism underlying the regulation of PIK3R2 expression by H4K12 lactylation. This regulation, in turn, activates the PI3K/Akt/mTOR-signaling pathway and the fibrotic process, thus providing novel potential epigenetic targets for the prevention and treatment of lung fibrosis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Cancer therapeutics frequently fail in clinical trials because of poor therapeutic index (efficacy-to-toxicity ratio). We systematically identified targets likely to have a good therapeutic index, revealing insulin receptor substrate 4 (IRS4) as a dependency in IRS4-expressing cancers. Pan-cancer analysis of pediatric-enriched cancers revealed IRS4 expression consistent with dependency in 68% of choroid plexus, 37% of malignant rhabdoid, 31% of NUT midline, and 5% of osteosarcomas, while in adult cancers, it was expressed in 8% of uterine leiomyosarcomas and 1 to 2% of lung squamous, stomach, and breast carcinomas. IRS4 expression in adult tumors was associated with enhancer hijacking rearrangements, including recurrent GATA3-IRS4 and ANKRD30A-IRS4 in breast cancer, while rhabdoid and NUT midline cancers expressed IRS4 epigenetically. IRS4 fueled cancer dependency through PI3K-Akt activation, and domain analysis revealed the PH and PTB domains, which have a predicted drug pocket, to be dispensable, suggesting degradation-based modalities. These data reveal IRS4 as a target in IRS4-expressing cancers and suggest inhibitory approaches.
X-linked myotubular myopathy (XLMTM) is a rare genetic disorder that typically presents at birth with progressive muscle weakness and respiratory difficulties and is caused by myotubularin 1 (MTM1) gene mutations. Here, we examine the role of phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 2-β (PIK3C2B), a lipid kinase that interacts with MTM1, in XLMTM in various models. We examined the effect of BLU3797, a highly potent, selective, orally bioavailable PIK3C2B inhibitor, on survival, muscle development, myofiber phenotypes, and gene expression in MTM1-/y mice. PIK3C2B-deficient XLMTM animals demonstrated increased survival, restored muscle function, fewer myofibers with centralized nuclei, and normalization of disease-associated molecular markers. BLU3797 alleviated the XLMTM phenotype in a dose-dependent and reversible manner. Loss of functional PIK3C2B in XLMTM mice promoted a more differentiated, adult-like myofiber profile, which was strongly associated with normalization of disease surrogates and a reduction in markers of early muscle development and regeneration. BLU3797 treatment appears to modulate the expression of miRNAs associated with satellite cell activation and myofiber fusion. These findings indicate that PIK3C2B inhibition with BLU3797 effectively reverses the XLMTM disease phenotype by enhancing muscle function and promoting development toward a more mature state.
Silicosis is a progressive and life-threatening fibrotic lung disease caused by crystalline silica. However, targeted therapies remain unavailable due to its incompletely understood pathogenic mechanisms. Here, we identify ferritin as a pivotal mediator of silica-induced pulmonary fibrosis by integrating clinical exploration with experimental validation. We detected persistently elevated ferritin levels in lung tissues and serum from silicosis patients and silica-exposed mice, and demonstrated that exogenous ferritin administration exacerbates fibrosis in vivo. Multi-omics profiling and co-culture experiments revealed that macrophage-secreted ferritin promotes fibroblast-to-myofibroblast differentiation and pathological extracellular matrix (ECM) deposition via the PIK3R2/SMAD signaling axis. Importantly, genetic knockdown of ferritin in macrophages significantly suppressed myofibroblast differentiation and collagen accumulation both in vivo and in vitro. These findings underscore that ferritin functions not only as a potential clinical biomarker for silicosis surveillance but also as a pathogenic driver through macrophage-fibroblast crosstalk, and provide a theoretical foundation for developing integrated diagnostic and therapeutic strategies against silicosis.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) involves the complete blockage of a coronary artery, leading to severe cardiac damage and high mortality. miR-1 promotes cardiomyocyte apoptosis by downregulating the anti-apoptotic protein BCL2, while miR-126-5p negatively regulates PIK3R2 by activating the PI3K/Akt pathway. The expression of these miRNAs correlates with BCL2, PIK3R2, and high-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (hs-cTnT) in patients and controls, highlighting their role in apoptosis and myocardial injury. This study aimed to compare serum levels of miR-1, BCL2, microRNA-126-5p (miR-126-5p), Phosphoinositide-3-Kinase Regulatory Subunit 2 (PIK3R2), and cTnT in patients and controls. The association of miR-1 with BCL2 and miR-126-5p with PIK3R2 in STEMI patients was analyzed using ELISA and statistical analysis. Results showed a substantial increase in BCL2 levels in STEMI patients (128.01 ± 137.19) compared to controls (40.65 ± 20.92), and a decrease in miR-1 levels in STEMI patients (31.35 ± 68.89) compared to controls (43.43 ± 31.28). Similarly, the PIK3R2 and miR-126-5p levels among cases and controls were 228.55 ± 127.4 and 0.17 ± 0.32, respectively, showing a significant difference between patients and controls. Statistical analysis revealed that the expression levels of miR-1 and miR-126-5p are significantly different between controls and patients (p-value < 0.05), demonstrating a strong association with the prognosis of ST-elevation myocardial infarction. Moreover, a strong correlation was observed between BCL2 levels and PIK3R2 levels (p-value < 0.05) among STEMI patients. These results establish a profound diagnostic profile for STEMI using miR-1 and miR-126-5p and highlight the functional importance of these miRNAs in angiogenesis by targeting the BCL2 and PIK3R2 proteins.Copyright: Mehmood A, et al.
To explore the mechanism of Tonglaga-5 (-5, TLG-5) for the treatment of chronic atrophic gastritis (CAG), based on network pharmacology and metabolomics.Forty-eight male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into six groups (n = 8): control group; model group; teprenone group, and low-, median-, and high- dose TLG-5 groups. The enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was used to measure the expression of pepsinogen Ⅰ (PG Ⅰ), pepsinogen Ⅱ (PG Ⅱ) and gastrin-17 (G-17) in the serum. Hematoxylin and eosin staining were performed to observe the pathological condition. And the network pharmacology was employed to identify the targets and signaling pathways of TLG-5 affecting CAG. Then, the metabolomics approach was applied to explore the specific metabolites and metabolic pathways. Finally, validation was performed using the "metabolite-gene" interaction network, molecular docking and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR).High-dose TLG-5 significantly improved the expression of PG Ⅰ, PGR (PG Ⅰ/ PG Ⅱ) and G-17 (P < 0.05) and inhibited the expression of phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunit 2, AKT serine/threonine kinase (AKT), hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF-1α) (P < 0.05). Further, high-dose TLG-5 reduced the number of glands was reduced, and fibrosis with oedema and ecchymosis appeared at the base. Overlapping TLG-5 and CAG gene targets produced 270 interactive targets. The results of gene ontology and Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes enrichment analyses suggested that TLG-5 could affect CAG through the predominantly cancer and inflammation-related pathways. Pyrimidine metabolism was identified as a significantly differential pathway in the mechanism of TLG-5 for treating CAG.TLG-5 exerts a therapeutic effect on CAG by regulating β-alanine metabolism, pyrimidine metabolism pathways, and inhibiting the PI3K-AKT signaling pathway and HIF-1 signaling pathways.
To identify key molecular regulators of GDM in placental tissues using transcriptome sequencing.This study employed transcriptome sequencing to investigate placental tissue from GDM patients (n=7) and healthy controls (n=6), aiming to identify key molecular regulators and pathways underlying GDM pathogenesis.We identified 505 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), including 216 upregulated and 289 downregulated genes. Notably, PCK1 (phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1) and IRS4 (insulin receptor substrate 4) emerged as critical regulators. Quantitative real time PCR validation confirmed significant downregulation of PCK1 and upregulation of IRS4 in GDM placentas. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that PCK1 is associated with the CLINK/HLA-G/INAVA/KLRC2/PCK1/RBP4/SLAMF6 pathway, which was suppressed in GDM, while IRS4 correlated with the dysregulated AGRP/IRS4/RXRG axis.These findings highlight the roles of placental PCK1 and IRS4 in GDM. Further mechanistic studies, including protein-level validation and animal models, are warranted to explore these pathways as potential diagnostic or therapeutic targets for GDM.© 2025 Wang et al.
Central hypothyroidism (CeH) is characterized by thyroid hormone deficiency due to impairment of pituitary thyroid stimulating hormone or hypothalamic TRH biosynthesis. It is extremely rare and affects approximately 1:16,000-100,000 individuals. Diagnosis, especially of isolated CeH, may be challenging. CeH is often seen as a part of multiple pituitary hormone deficiencies, but it can also be seen as isolated CeH. To date, some variants that can cause CeH have been identified, although in a number of patients the cause has not been clarified. Recently, variants of the insulin receptor substrate 4 (IRS4) gene have been reported to be the cause of isolated CeH. Herein, we report two related patients and their family with carriers with a novel X-linked frameshift variant in the IRS4 gene. It has also been shown that thyroid function may be slightly affected in the heterozygous female carriers in our study.Herein, we reported two Turkish male patients with CeH due to a hemizygous variant in IRS4. The index case was a 15-year-and-2-month-old male who presented with a low serum-free thyroxin level, which was incidentally detected.Isolated CeH should keep in mind in insistent low fT4 levels without an increase in thyroid stimulating hormone levels. Genetic testing can aid in identifying the underlying cause of CeH in such cases. This report demonstrates the significance of providing comprehensive laboratory and molecular features of the patients and carriers with the IRS4 variants.© 2025 S. Karger AG, Basel.
Hepatic fibrosis is a progressive response to chronic liver injury. A key event in the development of hepatic fibrosis is the activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs); emerging research indicates that microRNAs play crucial roles in regulating HSCs activation. However, the specific roles of miR-126-3p (miR-126) and miR-195-5p (miR-195) in liver fibrosis remain inadequately understood.We examined the expression of miR-126 and miR-195 in activated HSCs, fibrotic liver tissues from animal models, and blood samples from patients with liver disease. The effects on cell proliferation and migration were investigated by MTT, colony formation assay, cell wound healing assay, and Transwell assay. Finally, we evaluated the effect of miR-126 and miR-195 on the progression of liver fibrosis in mice.We revealed that miR-126 and miR-195 were markedly downregulated in activated HSCs, fibrotic liver tissues from animal models, and blood samples from patients with liver diseases. Functional experiments demonstrated that the overexpression of miR-126 and miR-195 significantly inhibited the proliferation, migration, and fibrotic markers expression in HSCs. Conversely, silencing miR-126 and miR-195 produced the opposite effects. Further mechanistic studies showed that miR-126 and miR-195 downregulate insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS1) or phosphoinositide 3-kinase regulatory subunit 2 (PIK3-R2), respectively, thereby inhibiting the pro-fibrotic signalling pathway (IRS1/PI3K) and regulating the functions of HSCs. Importantly, in vivo experiments demonstrated that miR-126 and miR-195 markedly alleviated CCL4-induced hepatic fibrosis in mice.Our results unravel that miR-126 and miR-195 inhibit liver fibrosis by suppressing the IRS/PI3K pathway.© 2025 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) increases cardiovascular disease risk. Coronary artery calcification (CAC) predicts cardiovascular events and mortality in COPD. We hypothesized that plasma proteins linked to pulmonary phenotypes mediate CAC burden.Pulmonary function, emphysema, airway wall thickening, Agatston CAC scores (inverse normal transformed), and relative abundance of 1305 plasma proteins (log-transformed) were assessed in 989 Phase 1 COPDGene (Genetic Epidemiology of COPD) participants. Proteins associated with both pulmonary phenotypes (FEV1[forced expiratory volume in 1 second]%predicted, FVC [forced vital capacity], FEV1/FVC, emphysema, airway wall thickness, wall area percentage) and CAC (false discovery rate P≤0.20) were evaluated using multivariable mediation. Model adjustments included sex, age, race, body mass index, smoking, comorbidities, and medications. Adjustment for pulmonary artery-to-aortic diameter ratio-a marker of pulmonary vascular pressure-was also explored. The95% bootstrap CIs that excluded zero were considered significant.FEV1%predicted (P=0.026) and FEV1/FVC (P=0.010) were associated with CAC. After adjusting for FEV1, visual emphysema, and visual airway wall thickening remained associated with CAC. Five proteins (TSP2 [thrombospondin-2], renin, MMP-7 [matrix metalloproteinase-7], ERBB1 [epidermal growth factor receptor], MIC-1 [macrophage inhibitory cytokine-1]) mediated the FEV1%predicted and CAC association. All except MIC-1 mediated FEV1/FVC and CAC. All except renin mediated quantitative airway wall thickness or wall area percentage and CAC. Additionally, α2-antiplasmin (alpha-2 antiplasmin) mediated airway wall thickness and CAC. ERBB1 mediated visual paraseptal emphysema and CAC. Pulmonary artery-to-aortic diameter ratio adjustment reduced or eliminated some mediation effects. ERBB1 remained an independent mediator across multiple phenotypes.Six plasma proteins mediated associations between COPD phenotypes and CAC burden. These effects were partially influenced by pulmonary artery-to-aortic diameter ratio A, suggesting shared molecular pathways linking lung dysfunction to cardiovascular risk in COPD.
Metronomic chemotherapy with oral capecitabine + vinorelbine (Cape + VNL) provides synergistic cytostatic activity and antiangiogenic and immunomodulatory effects, potentially offering prolonged disease control with limited toxicity in HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer (MBC). However, efficacy in the real-world (RW) setting, especially in late lines, and the impact of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPYD) polymorphisms on dose reduction and safety remain limited.In this retrospective study, 200 patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative MBC were treated at the ASST Cremona Hospital (2015-2023) with metronomic Cape (1000 mg twice daily, in normal metabolizers; 500 mg twice daily, in DPYD variant carriers) + VNL (20 mg/day, once daily, 5-days-on/2-days-off). All patients underwent pretreatment DPYD genotyping and dose adjustment. Treatment was administered in the second-to-fourth setting. The primary end point was time-to-next treatment or death (TNTD); secondary end points included overall survival (OS), disease control rate (DCR) ≥24 weeks, overall response rate (ORR), safety, and genotype-toxicity correlations.The median age was 61 years, and DPYD variants were present in 14.5% of patients; 34%, 41%, and 25% received therapy as second-, third-, and fourth-line treatment. The median TNTD was 22.0 weeks, and the OS was 64.0 weeks. The DCR was 38.5%, and the ORR was 22.0%. Efficacy was comparable between DPYD variant carriers and normal metabolizers (all P values > .05). In later lines, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status 2 and >2 metastatic sites were independent negative prognostic factors (all values P < .05). Overall, 7.5% grade 3 toxicities occurred, especially in variant carriers without dose reduction and grade 4-5 events.These RW data suggest that metronomic Cape + VNL may represent a clinically active and manageable option in heavily pretreated HER2-negative MBC. Our findings support prospective evaluation of DPYD-guided dose individualization as a strategy to optimize the benefit-risk balance of fluoropyrimidine-based metronomic regimens.
In hormone receptor-positive/human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative (HR+/HER2-) metastatic breast cancer (mBC), cyclin-dependent kinase 4/6 inhibitors (CDK4/6i) have transformed long-term disease control; however, survival trajectories remain markedly heterogeneous. While a subset of patients experiences early progression reflecting endocrine-resistant and biologically aggressive disease, others maintain durable endocrine-sensitive control for several years. As a result, baseline survival estimates calculated from treatment initiation become progressively less representative for patients who remain progression-free during ongoing therapy. We therefore evaluated landmark-based conditional survival outcomes in a real-world cohort of patients receiving first-line CDK4/6i-based therapy.We retrospectively evaluated 390 patients with HR+/HER2- mBC treated with first-line CDK4/6i plus endocrine therapy. Landmark analyses were performed at 6, 12, 24, and 36 months following treatment initiation. Conditional progression-free survival (cPFS), conditional overall survival (cOS), and post-landmark OS according to progression status were estimated using Kaplan-Meier analyses from each landmark time point. Baseline clinicopathological factors were additionally evaluated using landmark-specific logistic regression analyses.Median progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) from treatment initiation were 29.2 months (95% CI, 24.6-33.9) and 68.0 months (95% CI, 55.7-80.4), respectively. Disease progression had occurred in 11.5%, 26.1%, 50.8%, and 70.4% of patients by the 6-, 12-, 24-, and 36-month landmarks, respectively. Among patients remaining progression-free at these time points, median cPFS was 27.15, 28.08, 34.58, and 41.90 months, respectively, suggesting increasingly durable conditional disease control with successive progression-free milestones. Landmark progression status strongly stratified subsequent survival outcomes, with significantly inferior post-landmark OS observed among patients with progression at all evaluated landmarks (all log-rank p < 0.001). Endocrine resistance, visceral disease, and adverse tumor biology were consistently associated with an increased risk of progression. However, estimates beyond the 36-month landmark were less precise owing to the limited risk set and greater censoring.Landmark-based conditional survival analysis provides clinically meaningful, time-updated prognostic information in HR+/HER2- mBC treated with first-line CDK4/6 inhibitors. Crossing successive progression-free milestones identifies a subgroup with increasingly durable long-term disease control while maintaining favorable post-landmark survival. These findings support the integration of milestone-based conditional survival estimates alongside conventional baseline survival metrics in the CDK4/6i era.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Japanese Breast Cancer Society.
Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation status plays a critical role in guiding targeted therapy for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, molecular testing in patients with stage IA NSCLC may be limited by insufficient tissue availability, procedural invasiveness, and resource constraints. Therefore, developing a non-invasive approach for EGFR mutation prediction is of substantial clinical interest. This study aimed to develop a computed tomography (CT) radiomics based model integrating clinical variables for non-invasive prediction of EGFR mutation status in stage IA NSCLC patients.A total of 375 patients with stage IA NSCLC who underwent pre-treatment chest CT and EGFR mutation testing were retrospectively enrolled. Tumor volumes of interest (VOIs) were manually segmented on CT images, and radiomic features were extracted using the pyradiomics package. Clinical and radiomic features were selected through a feature selection pipeline, and multiple machine learning algorithms were evaluated for EGFR mutation prediction. Model performance was assessed using the Area Under Curve (AUC).Predictive performance varied across feature selection strategies and machine learning algorithms. Among all evaluated combinations, the Linear Regression (LR) model built using the Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO)-30 feature set achieved the best performance, with a test-set AUC of 0.745. In this model, CT radiomic features served as the primary predictive component, while selected clinical variables provided complementary information and modestly improved predictive performance. These findings support the value of integrating radiomic and clinical features for non-invasive EGFR mutation prediction in early-stage NSCLC.A CT radiomics based model demonstrated only moderate performance for the non-invasive prediction of EGFR mutation status in patients with stage IA NSCLC. When clinical variables were incorporated, predictive performance improved, suggesting that clinical features provide complementary information beyond radiomics alone. The combined model highlights the added value of integrating CT-derived radiomics with clinical data for more accurate individualized molecular assessment, particularly when tissue-based genotyping is unavailable or limited.© 2026 Guan et al.
To assess the association between different tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) and the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE).PubMed, the Cochrane Library, Embase, WanFang Data, and CNKI were searched for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) from inception to June 2026.A total of 25 RCTs met the inclusion criteria, encompassing 9,068 patients. The risk of MACE was significantly higher in the TKI-treated group than in the control group (odds ratio [OR] = 2.13; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.11-4.07; P = 0.02). The ORs for QT prolongation, hypertension, and arrhythmias were 6.05 (95% CI, 3.70-9.89; P < 0.00001), 4.18 (95% CI, 2.19-7.95; P < 0.0001), and 5.40 (95% CI, 3.43-8.50; P < 0.00001), respectively. Subgroup analysis indicated that epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) were associated with the highest risk of cardiovascular adverse events, followed by vascular endothelial growth factor receptor inhibitors (VEGFR-TKIs), platelet-derived growth factor receptor inhibitors (PDGFR-TKIs), and stem cell factor receptor inhibitors (c-Kit TKIs).TKI therapy significantly prolongs progression-free survival. However, the incidence of cardiovascular adverse events, including QT prolongation, hypertension, and arrhythmias, is notably higher with TKI use. EGFR-TKIs show the highest cardiovascular risk, followed by VEGFR-TKIs, PDGFR-TKIs, and c-Kit TKIs. Clinicians should be aware of these risks and ensure regular cardiovascular monitoring during treatment.https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/view/CRD420251084805, identifier CRD420251084805.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Cheng, Zheng, Liu, Zhang, Gao and Li.
Third-generation epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) are widely used in the treatment of NSCLC with EGFR mutations due to their efficacy and favourable safety profile. However, drug-induced liver injury (DILI) associated with targeted therapy may occasionally present with atypical clinical and radiological features, posing diagnostic challenges. Here, we present a rare case of severe hepatotoxicity accompanied by pseudo-progressive portal lymphadenopathy that occurred following furmonertinib treatment.A 59-year-old female patient with EGFR-mutated NSCLC initiated treatment with the third-generation EGFR-TKI furmonertinib. Two months into the therapy, the patient developed jaundice and marked elevations in total bilirubin and transaminases. Extensive laboratory investigations excluded viral hepatitis and autoimmune liver diseases. Abdominal imaging revealed newly enlarged portal lymph nodes, mimicking malignant metastasis, but without clear evidence of hepatic metastasis or biliary obstruction. Furmonertinib was discontinued and systemic corticosteroid therapy was initiated. Within 2 weeks, liver function tests had improved significantly and follow-up imaging showed that the portal lymphadenopathy had regressed. Causality assessment using the RUCAMyielded a score of 9, indicating a highly probable drug-induced liver injury.This case highlights that severe hepatotoxicity associated with furmonertinib may present with portal lymphadenopathy that mimics disease progression. Clinicians should remain vigilant for this atypical hepatotoxicity when using EGFR-TKIs and promptly assess portal lymph node status upon the emergence of jaundice or abnormal liver function. The implementation of early intervention strategies may facilitate recovery and help avoid misinterpretation of imaging findings.Copyright © 2026 Zhu, Long, Zhu, Xu, Wu and Xie.
The clinical benefit of adjuvant epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) in stage IB non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains controversial. This study evaluated the impact of adjuvant EGFR-TKIs on long-term survival in a real-world cohort of patients with stage IB NSCLC.A total of 340 patients with resected stage IB EGFR-mutated NSCLC were included in this study and divided into two groups (TKI+ group: with adjuvant EGFR-TKI; TKI- group: without adjuvant EGFR-TKI). Kaplan-Meier and Cox regression analyses were used to compare overall survival, disease-free survival, and recurrence-free survival between groups. Propensity score matching was performed to minimize selection bias.Among 340 included patients, 46.8% (159/340) received an EGFR-TKI. Adjuvant EGFR-TKIs significantly improved 5-year disease-free survival (TKI- group: 76.1% vs. TKI+ group: 82.8%, P = 0.005) and 5-year recurrence-free survival (TKI- group: 80.2% vs. TKI+ group: 86.7%, P = 0.013) in patients with stage IB NSCLC. However, no significant difference was observed in 5-year overall survival (TKI- group: 90.4% vs. TKI+ group: 90.2%, P = 0.315). Subgroup analysis showed that, in patients with tumors ≤ 3 cm, those with partial-solid tumors, and those without high-risk factors, adjuvant EGFR-TKIs had no impact on long-term survival (all P > 0.05). Furthermore, no significant difference in long-term survival was observed between first-generation and third-generation EGFR-TKIs.Despite the limitations of a retrospective design, our findings suggest that adjuvant EGFR-TKIs might be omitted in patients with stage IB NSCLC with tumors ≤ 3 cm, those with partial-solid tumors, or those without high-risk factors.© 2026. Society of Surgical Oncology.
Clazosentan, a selective endothelin-A (ET-A) receptor antagonist, is used to prevent cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Although pulmonary edema and fluid retention are recognized adverse effects, hypoxemia associated with atelectasis has not been described. Endothelin-1 contributes to hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction (HPV), which preserves ventilation-perfusion (V/Q) matching by diverting blood flow from poorly ventilated regions; pharmacologic ET-A blockade may attenuate HPV, increasing intrapulmonary shunt and impairing oxygenation. We report a man in his 60s with aneurysmal SAH (World Federation of Neurosurgical Societies [WFNS] I, Fisher 3) who underwent clipping surgery and postoperative clazosentan infusion (10 mg/h, standard Japanese dosage). On day 7 of infusion, hypoxemia (SpO2 < 90% room air) developed; on day 8, arterial blood gas showed PaO2 62.5 mmHg with a PaO2/FiO2 (P/F) ratio of 109. Chest computed tomography (CT) demonstrated right lower-lobe atelectasis without pulmonary edema or pleural effusion, and echocardiography showed normal cardiac function. Clazosentan was discontinued and corticosteroid therapy initiated, after which oxygenation improved and the atelectasis resolved. The patient was extubated on day 18 and discharged with good neurological recovery. This case illustrates a plausible mechanism whereby ET-A receptor blockade suppresses HPV, exacerbating V/Q mismatch in the presence of segmental atelectasis. Improvement after drug withdrawal supports this association. Clinicians should recognize that hypoxemia during clazosentan therapy may occur independently of fluid overload and warrants early respiratory evaluation.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558375 is a review article
Oxidative stress and neuroinflammation are critical contributors to hypoxic-ischemic brain injury. Microglia, the CNS-resident immune cells, undergo rapid activation in response to hypoxic stress. Endothelin-1 (ET-1), a vasoconstrictor implicated in cerebrovascular pathology, is upregulated by hypoxia; however, its role in microglial activation remains poorly understood. HMC3 human microglial cells were exposed to hypoxia (1% O2) for 4 hours. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) were quantified by flow cytometry. ET-1 and interleukin-6 (IL-6) protein concentrations were measured by ELISA and mRNA levels by qPCR. Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation and ET-1 localization were assessed by flow cytometry and immunofluorescence, respectively. The endothelin B receptor (ETBR) antagonist BQ788 was used to assess ET-1 signaling in hypoxia-induced responses. Hypoxia significantly upregulated ET-1 gene expression (5.0-fold increase, p < 0.001, n = 4) and elevated ET-1 protein production by 1.4-fold (p < 0.01, n = 4). IL-6 expression and secretion increased 1.5-fold under hypoxic conditions (p < 0.01, n = 4), an effect that was attenuated by BQ788 pretreatment. ROS levels increased 1.9-fold in hypoxic HMC3 cells (p < 0.01, n = 4) but were significantly reduced by ETBR inhibition. Additionally, hypoxia elevated the percentage of MAPK-activated cells compared to both normoxic and BQ788-treated groups (p < 0.01). These findings demonstrate that hypoxia induces ET-1 overexpression, ROS generation, MAPK activation, and IL-6 production in microglia, establishing a self-perpetuating cycle of neuroinflammation. ETBR blockade with BQ788 disrupts this cascade, suggesting that ET-1 signaling is a promising therapeutic target to mitigate secondary injury in hypoxic-ischemic brain conditions.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 39899769
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42555010
Annexin A1 (AnxA1) regulates inflammation and neovascularization in ocular diseases, influencing growth factor signaling and cytoskeletal dynamics. Accordingly, this study aimed to investigate the role of the AnxA1 protein in diabetic retinopathy (DR) and to understand how its absence affects inflammation and vascular dysfunction in DR.DR model was induced 12 weeks after streptozotocin injection in wild-type (AnxA1+/+) and AnxA1 knockout (AnxA1-/-) mice. We evaluated the consequences of AnxA1 deficiency on retinal morphology, Müller cell activation, inflammation, and angiogenesis associated with DR. We also performed an in silico analysis in wild-type animals with DR induced for 6 weeks and in a dataset of patients with DR. Furthermore, a choroidal neovascularization model was used to evaluate the role of AnxA1 in angiogenesis signaling.AnxA1 deficiency exacerbated selective systemic inflammatory alterations and promoted retinal neurodegeneration associated with DR. AnxA1-/- diabetic animals exhibited increased circulating IL-6, IL-17, chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 1, and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 levels, retinal monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 and IL-4 upregulation, dysregulated MAPK/STAT3 signaling, and altered gliosis responses. In addition, AnxA1 deficiency was associated with a proangiogenic signaling profile characterized by increased retinal levels of EGF, VEGF-A, and endothelin-1 in DR, whereas the upregulation of VEGF-C was predominantly observed in the choroidal neovascularization model.Endogenous AnxA1 modulates inflammatory-glial and proangiogenic signaling pathways in the diabetic retina. Its deficiency is associated with selective inflammatory dysregulation and enhanced angiogenesis-related signaling during DR progression.
To compare the effects of High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT) and Moderate Intensity Continuous Training (MICT) on blood pressure homeostasis, cardiovascular structure, and function, and to explore the underlying neuro-humoral regulatory mechanisms in patients with essential hypertension (EH).A total of 56 EH patients were randomly (1:1) assigned to the MICT (35 min) or HIIT (1 × 10 min with 2 min intervals) for 8 weeks, three times per week. The primary outcome was the change in flow-mediated dilation (FMD). Blood pressure, traditional cardiovascular risk factors, cardiovascular structure and function, as well as neural, specific humoral, and nonspecific humoral regulation were assessed.Among 56 patients with EH who were randomized, 54 (96.4%) completed the 8-week evaluation. After an 8-week intervention, the improvement in FMD was significantly greater in the HIIT group compared with the MICT group (mean difference: 0.85% [95% CI, 0.50-1.21]). HIIT showed favored changes in nitric oxide, FMD, and endothelin-1, brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity, peak systolic velocity, corrected QT Interval, Ratio of Early Diastolic Mitral Valve Peak Flow Velocity to Early Diastolic Myocardial Velocity, angiotensin-(1-7), and C-reactive protein in EH patients (all P < 0.05). Both HIIT and MICT significantly improved systolic blood pressure, pulsatility index, resistive index, angiotensin II, and norepinephrine in EH patients (all P < 0.05), with no statistically significant differences between the two groups (all P > 0.05).Both HIIT and MICT yielded comparable effects on lowering systolic blood pressure and regulating neurohumoral factors. FMD was improved to a greater extent with HIIT, which also showed superior efficacy in arterial stiffness, hemodynamics, cardiac diastolic function, and inflammatory biomarkers.https://www.chictr.org.cn, identifier ChiCTR2500097077.© 2026 Yan, Liu, Gao, Guo, Wu, Gong, Gao and Wang.
To investigate the effect of miR-100-5p on the biological behaviors of pediatric acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells by targeting insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R ).QRT-PCR was used to detect the expression levels of miR-100-5p and IGF1R mRNA in AML cell lines (THP-1, TF-1a, HL-60) and serum of children with AML. The dual-luciferase reporter gene assay was applied to verify the targeting relationship between miR-100-5p and IGF1R . THP-1 cells were assigned into Control group, miR-NC group, miR-100-5p mimics group, miR-100-5p mimics+pcDNA group, and miR-100-5p mimics+IGF1R group. The colony formation assay, scratch healing assay, and transwell assay were used to detect the proliferation, migration, and invasion abilities of THP-1 cells in each group, and Western blot assay was used to detect the protein expression of IGF1R, PCNA, MMP-2, MMP-9, E-cadherin, N-cadherin, and Vimentin.The expression level of IGF1R mRNA was significantly increased, while the expression level of miR-100-5p was significantly decreased in both the serum of pediatric AML patients and THP-1 cells (P < 0.001). Analysis via the StarBase database predicted the presence of potential binding sites between miR-100-5p and IGF1R . Compared with the miR-NC group, in the miR-100-5p mimics group, the number of colonies formed, scratch healing rate, and number of invasive cells of THP-1 cells were significantly decreased; the protein expression levels of IGF1R, PCNA, MMP-2, MMP-9, N-cadherin, and Vimentin were significantly decreased, while the expression level of miR-100-5p and the protein expression level of E-cadherin were significantly increased (all P < 0.05). Compared with the miR-100-5p mimics+pcDNA group, in the miR-100-5p mimics+IGF1R group, the number of colonies formed, scratch healing rate, and number of invasive cells were significantly increased; the protein expression levels of IGF1R, PCNA, MMP-2, MMP-9, N-cadherin, and Vimentin were significantly increased, while the protein expression level of E-cadherin was significantly decreased (all P < 0.05).Overexpression of miR-100-5p can targetedly inhibit IGF1R , thereby suppressing the proliferation, migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of AML cells.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42548211
Endothelial cell pyroptosis is a key factor promoting plaque instability in atherosclerosis (AS). Serum/Glucocorticoid Regulated Kinase 1 (SGK1) is upregulated in AS, but its upstream regulatory mechanisms and role in pyroptosis remain unclear. This study aims to elucidate the mechanism of action of the GATA Binding Protein 3 (GATA3)/SGK1 axis in ox-LDL-induced endothelial cell pyroptosis."AS and pyroptosis" related genes were screened using bioinformatics analysis. Transcription factor binding sites in the SGK1 promoter region were predicted using JASPAR. After establishing a pyroptosis model in ox-LDL-induced mouse aortic endothelial cells (MAECs), the effects of the GATA3/SGK1 regulatory axis on pyroptosis were detected using qRT-PCR, LDH release assays, and ELISA; the regulatory relationship was validated using the GATA3 inhibitor Pyrrothiogatain and SGK1 overexpression; and the mechanism of action of SGK1 was elucidated using a Caspase1 inhibitor (VX-765).Bioinformatics analysis identified 65 pyroptosis-related genes that were upregulated in AS, and this study focused on SGK1. The SGK1 promoter region contains 4 GATA3 binding sites. Ox-LDL significantly upregulated GATA3, SGK1, cleaved-Caspase-1, GSDMD-N and NLRP3 expression, while pyrrothiogatain reduced SGK1 expression and alleviated cellular damage and excessive inflammation. SGK1 overexpression reversed the protective effect of Pyrrothiogatain. Mechanistic studies showed that SGK1 overexpression exacerbated ox-LDL-induced pyroptosis, while VX-765 significantly reversed this effect.This study elucidates that GATA3 activated SGK1 transcription by directly binding to its promoter region, thereby promoting Caspase1/GSDMD-dependent endothelial cell pyroptosis.
This study investigated the mechanism by which Xiaoyao San ameliorates &quot;brain-gut&quot; interaction disorders in chronic stress-induced mice by examining its effects on T helper 1 cell(Th1)/T helper 2 cell(Th2) immune balance. Forty male C57BL/6 mice(6-8 weeks old, SPF grade) were randomly assigned to four groups(n=10 per group): control group, model group, Xiaoyao San group(7.63 g·kg~(-1)), and fluoxetine hydrochloride group(4.11 mg·kg~(-1)). Except for the control group, all groups underwent 28 days of chronic unpredictable mild stress(CUMS) to establish the model. Behavioral tests were conducted on day 28. From day 29, the Xiaoyao San and fluoxetine hydrochloride groups received corresponding drug solutions via oral gavage for 28 days(once daily), while the control and model groups received equivalent volumes of saline. CUMS modeling continued uninterrupted during the administration period. Behavioral assessments were repeated on day 56, with body weight monitored throughout the experiment. Hematoxylin-eosin(HE) staining was used to observe pathological changes in intestinal tissues. The villus height and crypt depth were measured, and their ratio was calculated. Immunohistochemistry(IHC) was employed to detect the expression of tight junction proteins zonula occludens-1(ZO-1) and occludin in the intestinal mucosa. Serum levels of interferon-γ(IFN-γ), interleukin(IL)-2, IL-4, IL-10, corticosterone(CORT), gastrin(GAS), motilin(MTL), and somatostatin(SS) were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay(ELISA) and subjected to correlation analysis. Western blot was performed to assess T-box transcription factor T-bet and GATA-binding protein 3(GATA-3) protein expression in the hypothalamus and intestinal tissues. The results demonstrated that Xiaoyao San significantly alleviated CUMS-induced depressive-like behaviors, including weight loss, reduced sucrose preference, and decreased locomotor activity in the open field test. HE staining indicated that Xiaoyao San effectively restored intestinal villus structure and increased the villus height-to-crypt depth ratio. IHC results showed that Xiaoyao San enhanced the expression of occludin and ZO-1 related to intestinal mucosal barrier, suggesting improved intestinal barrier function. ELISA analysis revealed that Xiaoyao San significantly decreased serum levels of CORT, SS, IFN-γ, and IL-2, while increasing GAS, MTL, IL-4, and IL-10, indicating mitigation of stress-induced damage and inflammatory responses, as well as regulation of brain-gut peptide secretion. Western blot results showed that Xiaoyao San significantly reduced T-bet protein expression and the T-bet/GATA-3 ratio in both the hypothalamus and intestinal tissues, suggesting correction of Th1/Th2 immune imbalance induced by CUMS. Correlation analysis indicated significant associations between brain-gut peptides and Th1/Th2-related inflammatory factors, implying a link between Th1/Th2 inflammatory responses and brain-gut regulatory function. In conclusion, Xiaoyao San ameliorates brain-gut interaction disorders in chronic stress mice, potentially through restoring Th1/Th2 immune balance, attenuating inflammatory responses, and modulating &quot;brain-gut&quot; peptide secretion.
Aluminum causes learning and memory impairments, and is an environmental and occupational toxicant. This in vivo and in vitro study assessed the implications of Lnc_000151 on aluminum-induced neurotoxicity through competitive binding to miR-96-5p. Fifty-six male SpragueDawley rats were randomly divided into eight groups: untreated, sham-operated, saline + sham-operated, Al(mal)₃ + sham-operated, saline + AAV-NC, Al(mal)₃ + AAV-NC, saline + AAV-Lnc_000151 shRNA, and Al(mal)₃ + AAV-Lnc_000151 shRNA. PC12 cells were separated into groups of 0, 100, 200, and 400 µM Al (mal)₃, and transfection groups including Lnc_000151 NC/siRNA, miR-96-5p NC/inhibitor, and IRS1 NC/siRNA. The learning and memory functions of rats were assessed via Morris water maze. Hippocampal CA1 neuronal count and synaptic structure were detected with hematoxylin-eosin staining and transmission electron microscopy. Cell apoptosis was measured using flow cytometry. Relative expression of Lnc_000151, miR-96-5p, and the IRS1/AKT/GSK3β pathway was determined using RT-PCR and Western blotting. The dual-luciferase assay confirmed targeted binding of Lnc_000151 to miR-96-5p and miR-96-5p to IRS1. In vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated that under aluminum exposure, inhibition of Lnc_000151 expression exacerbated learning and memory impairments, neuronal loss, synaptic damage, increased Tau and p-Tau (Ser396) expression, and cell apoptosis. In vitro experiments further verified that under aluminum exposure and Lnc_000151 inhibition, suppressing miR-96-5p expression reduced Tau and p-Tau (Ser396) expression and cell apoptosis, while activating the IRS1/AKT/GSK3β pathway. However, further inhibition of IRS1 expression abrogated these ameliorative effects. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that Lnc_000151 can competitively bind to miR-96-5p in a competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA)-dependent manner, thereby regulating IRS1 expression, modulating the AKT/GSK3β pathway, and affecting aluminum-induced neurotoxicity.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The disruption of mitochondrial homeostasis is a trigger for insulin resistance. The loss of N-acetyltransferase 1 (Nat1) function, an insulin-sensitivity gene, contributes to mitochondrial dysfunction and insulin resistance. Carnosic acid (CA), a diterpene derived from rosemary, has demonstrated an anti-insulin-resistance effect. This study hypothesized that CA protects against TNF-α-induced insulin resistance in 3T3-L1 adipocytes by regulating mitochondrial dynamics, biogenesis, and function via Nat1. 3T3-L1 adipocytes were pretreated with CA for 12 h, followed by co-treatment with TNF-α for an additional indicated duration. Results showed that treatment of 3T3-L1 adipocytes with TNF-α decreases mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) and PGC-1α protein levels and alters mitochondrial fission/fusion dynamics. Pretreatment with CA improved these effects. In parallel, CA prevented the TNF-α-induced reduction in Nat1 protein and improved insulin signaling by suppressing the phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1) at serine307, while restoring the phosphorylation of IRS-1 at tyrosine628 and Akt. Moreover, transfection with Nat1 siRNA inhibited the protective effect of CA against TNF-α-induced reductions in MMP, PGC-1α, and insulin signaling. In conclusion, CA ameliorated TNF-α-induced insulin resistance by reducing mitochondrial dysregulation by Nat1.
Lactation and mammary involution and remodeling are complex biological processes that require the coordinate expression of thousands of genes. Differential expression analyses comparing lactating and dry goats have revealed extensive changes in the expression of protein-coding and non-coding RNAs in the mammary gland. Here, we hypothesize that lactation and mammary involution/remodeling may also involve changes in the abundance of transcripts differing in exon composition and functional properties. To test this hypothesis, we analyzed the mammary transcriptomes of 5 lactating and 4 dry goats by using a hybrid approach based on the integration of data from short-read Illumina and long-read Nanopore sequencing. After data filtering, we detected 21,598 transcripts derived from 12,300 genes (≈1.7 transcripts per locus) in the goat mammary gland. Among them, we found 14,092 annotated isoforms, 6,291 novel isoforms, and 1,215 novel loci. Around 39.3% of expressed genes generated multiple transcript variants. Overall, the goat mammary transcriptome showed exon skipping as the most frequent splicing event, followed by alternative use of initial exons, intron retention, and variations in 3' and 5' splicing sites. We also observed that a limited number of isoforms accounted for a very substantial fraction of the total expression output of the lactating mammary gland, with the top 10 and top 50 genes representing approximately 66% and 82% of total expression, respectively. This transcriptomic specialization is driven primarily by genes encoding caseins CSN1S1, CSN2, and CSN3, and major whey proteins such as progestagen associated endometrial protein (PAEP), α-lactalbumin (LALBA), and lactophorin (GLYCAM1), which are essential milk nutrients. Finally, differential transcript usage (DTU) analysis comparing lactating and dry goats revealed 443 isoform switches affecting 355 unique genes and 563 transcripts. Besides, 266 and 297 transcripts were upregulated and downregulated in lactating goats, respectively, and 413 DTU, affecting 248 genes, were predicted to have functional consequences. Among these functional consequences, the most important ones were protein domain gain, non-reference domain isoform gain, nonsense-mediated insensitivity and coding transcripts. Several of the genes showing DTU have important roles in lactation, being of particular relevance those encoding epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase, mitochondrial (GPAM), hydroxysteroid 11-β dehydrogenase 1 (HSD11B1), insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS1), nuclear receptor subfamily 3 group C member 1 (NR3C1), and phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunit 1 (PIK3R1). Moreover, we also detected DTU for several genes integrated in the mitogen-activated protein kinase and Rho GTPase pathways. In summary, we provide a comprehensive catalog of RNA isoforms expressed in the goat mammary gland and demonstrate that mammary transcript splicing patterns differ substantially between lactating and dry goats.The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of the American Dairy Science Association®. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
The aim of this study was to investigate the potential reproductive toxicity of bisphenol S (BPS) and the related molecular mechanisms through a network toxicology approach. By utilizing various databases, including the Comparative Toxicogenomics Database (CTD), GeneCards, Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM), the Pharmacogenomics Knowledgebase (PharmGKB), and the Therapeutics Target Database (TTD), and limiting the species to Homo sapiens, we confirmed 45 potential targets related to both BPS exposure and reproductive injury. Additional analysis via STRING and Cytoscape pinpointed 4 key targets: AKT serine/threonine kinase 1 (AKT1), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-1-beta (IL-1β), and tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα). Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses indicated that the principal targets of BPS-mediated reproductive damage are mainly involved in oxidative stress signaling and cell secretion pathways. Because PI3K/AKT regulates the secretion of IL-6, IL-1β, and TNFα, we focus on AKT1 in the molecular docking experiments. Unexpectedly, we found a strong interaction between BPS and AKT1. Furthermore, the results suggested that women may be more susceptible to BPS-mediated reproductive toxicity than men. This study provides a theoretical framework for understanding the molecular mechanisms through which BPS causes reproductive toxicity and lays the foundation for preventing and treating reproductive disorders related to BPS exposure. In addition, our network toxicology-based method can accelerate the discovery of pathways involved in the toxic effects of environmental chemicals that are currently unknown.© 2026 The Author(s). Pediatric Discovery published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Children's Hospital of Chongqing Medical University.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42492394 is a review article
Non-gestational choriocarcinoma is an extremely rare and highly aggressive trophoblastic malignancy in male patients. It frequently presents with multiorgan metastases and poor prognosis. Spontaneous pneumothorax associated with metastatic pulmonary tumors is uncommon and may indicate rapid tumor progression. Here, we report a rare case of primary extragonadal choriocarcinoma presenting with pneumothorax in an elderly male patient.An 80-year-old man presented with cough and dyspnea. Chest computed tomography revealed right pneumothorax, more than 30 bilateral pulmonary nodules, mediastinal lymphadenopathy, and hepatic lesions. Persistent air leakage required thoracoscopic surgery. Histopathological examination of the resected lung specimen demonstrated hemorrhagic and necrotic nodules with biphasic trophoblastic morphology. Immunohistochemistry was positive for GATA binding protein 3, human chorionic gonadotropin, and CK7, leading to the diagnosis of choriocarcinoma. The serum human chorionic gonadotropin level was markedly elevated at 17,000 mIU/mL. Positron emission tomography/computed tomography revealed no abnormalities in the testes, and the tumor was considered most consistent with primary extragonadal choriocarcinoma. Despite temporary postoperative improvement, the disease progressed rapidly and the patient died on hospitalization day 24.This rare case highlights that choriocarcinoma should be considered in the differential diagnosis of pneumothorax accompanied by multiple pulmonary nodules, even in elderly male patients. Pneumothorax occurring before treatment may reflect highly aggressive tumor behavior, emphasizing the importance of early pathological diagnosis and prompt clinical intervention.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Compensatory growth, an important adaptive response in fish, holds considerable potential for improving feeding efficiency in aquaculture. To identify an optimal fasting-refeeding strategy for juvenile Qihe gibel carp (Carassius gibelio var. Qihe) and to clarify the mechanisms underlying the compensatory growth, we divided two-month-old fish into four groups, namely S0 group (continuous feeding for 28 days), S2 group (4 cycles of 2-day fasting followed by 5-day refeeding), S4 group (fasting for 4 days followed by refeeding for 24 days), and S8 group (fasting for 8 days followed by refeeding for 20 days), then growth performance, muscle tissue morphology, biochemical responses, and muscle transcriptomic profiles under different feeding regimes were investigated. After a 28-day aquaculture experiment, fish in the S4 group exhibited significantly greater body length and weight than those in the S0, S2, and S8 groups, indicating over-compensatory growth. Histological analysis further showed that muscle growth in the S4 group was mainly associated with myofiber hyperplasia. Different feeding regimes also induced distinct changes in hepatic antioxidant and metabolic enzyme activities, as well as intestinal digestive enzyme activities. Transcriptome analysis revealed that the forkhead box O (FoxO) signaling pathway was significantly enriched during compensatory growth. Key genes, including serum/glucocorticoid regulated kinase 1 (sgk1) and insulin receptor substrate 1 (irs1), were predicted to play important roles in this process. Overall, these results indicate that fasting for 4 days followed by refeeding for 24 days (the S4 regime) is the optimal strategy for inducing compensatory growth in juvenile Qihe gibel carp. This study provides new insights into the morphological, physiological, and molecular basis of compensatory growth and offers a scientific foundation for developing efficient and sustainable feeding strategies for this species.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Obesity, a major health issue linked to metabolic disorders, is driven by multiple factors, including impaired leptin signaling, particularly in the Janus kinase 2 (JAK2)/Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) pathway. This study investigated the impact of aldehyde-containing food additives on leptin receptor activated signaling in cells. We examined the effects of 39 different aldehyde-containing compounds, commonly used in food additives, on leptin-induced STAT3 transcriptional activity through a reporter gene assay. Three aldehydes, i.e., 2-pyrrolecarboxaldehyde, o-anisaldehyde, and piperonal were found to reduce leptin-induced STAT3 transcriptional activity in a concentration-dependent manner without affecting cell viability. These additives did not alter conformational changes of the leptin receptor, STAT3 phosphorylation, or its nuclear translocation, nor did they induce endoplasmic reticulum stress. These additives likely affect a downstream step in leptin signaling, specifically transcriptional regulation by STAT3, without disrupting early receptor signaling events. These finding suggest that some aldehyde-based food additives may contribute to leptin resistance and potentially to the development of obesity.Copyright © 2026 Shibuya, Yoshida, Tsuge, Hamasaki, Kuriya, Nakagawa, Sugiyama, Miyamoto, Shimamoto, Jockers, Dam and Hosoi.
Adenine-thymine (AT)-rich interactive domain-containing protein 5a (Arid5a) is an RNA-binding protein (RBP) that post-transcriptionally stabilizes mRNAs encoding proinflammatory mediators, including Interleukin-6 (IL-6), thereby amplifying inflammation. However, structural basis and regulatory mechanisms of Arid5a function remain poorly defined. In this study, we identified and characterized a conserved allosteric site within the ARID domain that regulates Arid5a-mediated mRNA stabilization. Using integrative in silico modeling and in vitro assays, 2 picolinamide-based inhibitors, NFP1 and NFP2, were designed to specifically engage the allosteric site constituent residues. Mutational and functional analyses revealed Tyr88 and Val91 as key regulatory elements within the allosteric site, essential for transmitting conformational regulation upon ligand engagement. Pharmacological inhibition of the allosteric site disrupted Arid5a interaction with target RNA stem-loop structure, reduced stability of Il6 mRNA, and attenuated inflammatory responses in Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated macrophages. Furthermore, Arid5a inhibitors reduced the stability of other target mRNAs, including Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (Stat3) and OX40, in polarized T helper 17 (Th17) cells. In a murine model of LPS-induced septic shock, treatment with NFP1 or NFP2 significantly improved survival, reduced clinical severity, and mitigated tissue damage in vital organs. These findings identify a new mechanism regulating Arid5a activity and present Arid5a allosteric inhibition as a promising therapeutic strategy for managing systemic inflammation including sepsis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) is a pivotal oncogenic driver in multiple myeloma (MM), and its constitutive activation promotes malignant plasma cell proliferation, survival, and drug resistance in the bone marrow microenvironment. Despite therapeutic advances, MM remains incurable due to persistent STAT3-driven tumorigenesis and the resilience of MM stem cells. We investigated the therapeutic potential of napabucasin (BBI608), a novel STAT3 inhibitor, in MM. Our data demonstrated that BBI608 potently suppressed MM cell proliferation in vitro and in vivo, while significantly impairing the clonogenic potential and inducing robust apoptosis. Mechanistically, BBI608 exhibited dual efficacy by targeting bulk tumor cells and eradicating the stem-like compartment of MM cells, thereby addressing a critical therapeutic challenge. Moreover, we revealed that BBI608 triggered immunogenic cell death (ICD) via the activation of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and the unfolded protein response (UPR), which subsequently enhanced T-cell-mediated anti-tumor immunity. Our findings highlight STAT3 inhibition as a promising strategy to simultaneously eradicate MM cells, target stem cell reservoirs, and harness anti-tumor immunity, providing a robust rationale for the clinical translation of BBI608 in MM therapy.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health LLC., on behalf of the Chinese Medical Association (CMA) and Institute of Hematology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College (IHCAMS).
This study aimed to investigate the role of the extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs) signaling pathway in orthodontic force-induced mechanotransduction and osteogenic differentiation, and explore its potential crosstalk with signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), whose regulatory mechanism remains unclear.In vitro, MC3T3-E1 preosteoblasts were exposed to cyclic tensile strain (2000 μstrain, 0.5 Hz, 4 h) with or without the specific ERKs inhibitor SCH772984. In vivo, a mouse orthodontic tooth movement (OTM) model was established with 4g force, and SCH772984 was locally injected into periodontal tissues. Pathway protein expression, osteogenic marker levels, tooth movement distance, and bone microarchitecture were analyzed.Mechanical strain significantly activated ERKs and STAT3 phosphorylation and upregulated key osteogenic markers (Runx2, OSX, OPN, ALP) in vitro; these effects were inhibited by SCH772984 except for COL1. In vivo, orthodontic force-induced alveolar bone remodeling and OTM, with osteogenic markers predominantly elevated on the tension side. SCH772984 treatment suppressed ERKs activation and reduced tooth movement by ~40% (all P<0.05).The ERKs pathway is a critical mediator of orthodontic force-induced alveolar bone remodeling and OTM, functioning partially through STAT3. These findings establish the ERKs/STAT3 axis as a promising therapeutic target for accelerating orthodontic treatment.Copyright © 2026 by Mutaz B. Habal, MD.
Information regarding the signaling axis involving triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 1 (TREM-1) and its downstream mediator, signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), remains limited in ischemic stroke. We investigated the plasma levels of TREM-1 in patients with ischemic stroke and compared to controls. Second, we investigated the potential correlation between plasma TREM-1 levels and STAT3 expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and explored their associations with stroke severity and functional outcomes.In an observational case-control study, plasma and PBMCs from participants were collected to measure TREM-1 and STAT3 expression levels. The National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) at admission, day 7, and 1 and 3 months, and the modified Rankin Scale (mRS) at 3 months post-discharge were assessed. Plasma TREM-1 levels and STAT3 expression were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), respectively. The Inflammation-Related Principal Component Score (IRPCS) was examined for its association with 3-month functional outcome.TREM-1 and STAT3 were significantly elevated in acute ischemic stroke (AIS) patients (p < 0.05, p < 0.0001) and positively correlated (ρ = 0.432, p < 0.0001). Both biomarkers correlated with the NIHSS at 1 and 3 months and mRS at 3 months (all p < 0.05). The composite IRPCS showed the strongest association with poor 3-month functional outcome among the tested biomarkers (OR = 2.84, 95% CI: 1.32-6.12, p = 0.008).Plasma TREM-1 levels were positively correlated with STAT3 expression. The TREM-1-STAT3 axis was associated with stroke severity and 3-month functional outcome in AIS patients. These findings should be regarded as exploratory and require validation in larger cohorts.© 2026 The Author(s). Brain and Behavior published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) has been an anti-cancer protein target for three decades due to its over-activation in various cancers; however, direct STAT3 inhibitors have not reached the market. In this study, a series of novel hydrazone derivatives were designed, synthesized, and characterized. The most promising compound P42 was found to selectively target the STAT3 SH2 domain over the DNA-binding domain, as suggested by the results from fluorescence polarization assays. The GI50 values after 72 h of P42 treatment were determined to be 0.85-5 μM in STAT3-overexpressing pancreatic and colorectal cancer cell lines harboring KRAS mutations (MIA PaCa-2, DLD-1 and HCT 116). Western blot analyses showed that P42 significantly inhibited phosphorylated STAT3 levels without affecting total STAT3 and its upstream kinases JAK2 and SRC. P42 demonstrated significant autophagy-associated cell death rather than apoptosis or necrosis in flow cytometry analyses, with increases in LC3II/I ratios and decreases in p62 levels. Cancer stemness potential was significantly abrogated with P42 as shown in colony formation assay and decreases in epithelial-mesenchymal transition/stemness markers SNAIL and ZEB1 levels. Molecular docking further supported a plausible binding mode within the STAT3 SH2 domain for P42, and SwissADME prediction suggested its favorable drug-likeness properties. Taken together, P42 warrants future anti-cancer drug development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Elevated phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) expression is observed in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain, yet the precise mechanism through which PTEN contributes to AD progression remains undefined. This study provides the direct evidence that PTEN promotes neurodegeneration by driving neuronal ferroptosis. Using APP/PS1 transgenic mice with hippocampal-specific PTEN knockdown mediated by adeno-associated virus (AAV), we demonstrated that downregulation of PTEN substantially ameliorates cognitive dysfunction and neuronal loss. Mechanistically, PTEN silencing upregulated glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), inhibiting lipid peroxidation and ferroptosis. We identified a dual-signaling framework through which PTEN regulates GPX4 expression. PTEN reduction activates the PI3K/AKT axis, which drives GSK3β phosphorylation and facilitates nuclear translocation of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2). Concurrently, PTEN knockdown induces phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3). Both Nrf2 and STAT3 act as transcriptional activators of GPX4, establishing two convergent axes: PTEN/AKT/GSK3β/Nrf2/GPX4 and PTEN/AKT/STAT3/GPX4. These pathways cooperatively upregulate GPX4 expression, thereby attenuating lipid peroxidation and inhibiting ferroptosis. Importantly, PTEN knockdown restored redox homeostasis by bolstering cellular antioxidant defenses. Our findings reveal a novel PTEN-regulated ferroptotic pathway in AD pathogenesis and highlight PTEN as a promising therapeutic target for AD.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
The transition between naive and primed pluripotency is governed by dynamic signaling networks and transcriptional circuits. While the janus kinase (JAK)/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) pathway is the master driver of naive pluripotency, the intrinsic negative feedback mechanisms that restrict its activation in primed epiblast stem cells (EpiSCs) remain incompletely defined. This study aimed to characterize the functional role of Suppressor of Cytokine Signaling 3 (SOCS3) in the primed-to-naive pluripotency transition.CRISPR (Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats)/Cas9 (CRISPR-associated protein 9) -mediated Socs3 knockout (KO) was generated in mouse EpiSCs, followed by primed-to-naive reprogramming induction in 2i/LIF [LIF (leukemia inhibitory factor), PD0325901 and CHIR99021) culture system. Molecular and phenotypic changes were evaluated via quantative real time PCR (qRT-PCR), Western blot, flow cytometry and immunofluorescence. Multilineage differentiation as-says were performed to verify pluripotency, and the STAT3-specific inhibitor Stattic was used to confirm the pathway dependence of the reprogramming phenotype.Socs3 was highly expressed in naive embryonic stem cells (ESCs) but minimally detected in EpiSCs. Socs3 deletion uncoupled the JAK/STAT3 negative feedback loop, causing sustained STAT3 Tyr705 phosphorylation that drove rapid and successful primed-to-naive conversion. The resulting reprogrammed naive ESCs (rnESCs) reactivated the core naive transcriptional network and acquired multilineage differentiation potential. Socs3 deficiency also delayed exit from naive pluripotency, and Stattic treatment completely abrogated Socs3 KO-mediated reprogramming.SOCS3 acts as a pivotal inducible barrier to the primed-to-naive pluripotency transition. Eliminating SOCS3-mediated negative regulation to sustain STAT3 activation is an effective strategy to overcome stem cell reprogramming barriers, providing a key target for the precise manipulation of pluripotent stem cell (PSC) fate.Copyright © 2026 Lu, Huang, Du, Yang, Liu, Lin and Yang.
This study aimed to investigate the effects of loganin on the osteogenic differentiation of mouse embryonic osteoblast precursor cells(MC3T3-E1) under oxidative stress and to explore its underlying mechanisms. First, a network pharmacology approach was employed to identify common targets of loganin and osteoporosis(OP) using SwissTargetPrediction, OMM, and GeneCards databases. A total of 31 potential targets were identified, with signal transducer and activator of transcription 3(STAT3), interleukin-2(IL-2), matrix metalloproteinase-9(MMP-9), and caspase-3 being central in the protein-protein interaction(PPI) network. Further enrichment analysis based on Gene Ontology(GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) suggested that the JAK-STAT signaling pathway might be a key pathway through which loganin exerts its effects. In vitro experiments utilized hydrogen peroxide(H_2O_2, 200 μmol·L~(-1)) to establish an oxidative stress injury model in MC3T3-E1 cells. The cells were divided into a control group, an H_2O_2 model group, and low-, medium-, and high-dose(50, 100, 200 μmol·L~(-1)) loganin groups. The results showed that loganin significantly reversed the H_2O_2-induced decreases in cell viability, reduced intracellular reactive oxygen species(ROS) levels, enhanced alkaline phosphatase(ALP) activity, and inhibited apoptosis. Western blot analysis revealed that loganin upregulated the expression of osteogenic differentiation markers, including Runt-related transcription factor 2(Runx2), ALP, and osterix, while downregulating the expression of apoptosis markers such as cleaved caspase-3 and Bcl-2-associated X protein(Bax) and upregulating the anti-apoptotic protein B-cell lymphoma-2(Bcl-2). Furthermore, loganin inhibited the phosphorylation of the JAK2/STAT3 pathway. Notably, the promoting effect of loganin on osteogenic differentiation and its anti-apoptotic effect were significantly reversed upon treatment with a JAK2/STAT3 pathway agonist, further confirming the critical role of this pathway in its mechanism of action. In conclusion, this study suggests that loganin may alleviate oxidative stress by inhibiting the JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway, thereby suppressing apoptosis and promoting osteogenic differentiation in MC3T3-E1 cells.
Evidence has shown that constant light or constant darkness significantly impairs cognitive functions and affects the mood state. The present study investigated the effect of circadian rhythm disturbances (circadian rhythm disruptions, CRDs) on locomotor activity, rearing behavior, pain threshold, novel object recognition memory, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK-3β) expression levels in the hippocampus of both sexes of rats. CRD was done using a combination of constant light (48 h) and constant darkness (48 h) periods for 8 (short-term), 16 (midterm), or 24 (long-term) days. The results showed CRD in all protocols increased locomotor activity in males, whereas in females, only long-term CRD increased it. Long-term CRD increased rearing only in females, whereas in males, only midterm CRD decreased rearing. Short- and midterm CRD in males decreased pain threshold, whereas in females, only midterm CRD decreased pain threshold. Novel object recognition memory was impaired in both sexes following all protocols of CRD. All protocols of CRD in females downregulated BDNF, whereas in males, short-term CRD had no effect. GSK-3β was increased following long-term CRD in both sexes. Spearman correlation test showed that BDNF function may be associated with changes in some behavioral functions in both sexes; however, GSK-3β function may be associated with some behavioral changes only in females. In conclusion, we showed sex differences in the effect of CRD on locomotor activity, rearing behavior, and pain threshold. Also, GSK-3β may show a sex-dependent role in the modulation of behavioral changes induced by CRD.Copyright © 2026 Zeinab Dalil-Housh et al. Behavioural Neurology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Background/Objectives: Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains one of the leading causes of cancer-related morbidity and mortality worldwide. Despite advances in treatment, outcomes for advanced CRC remain unsatisfactory due to uncontrolled proliferation, metastasis, and recurrence. This study investigated the anti-cancer effects of KMU-11342, an indolin-2-one-based multi-protein kinase inhibitor with previously reported anti-inflammatory properties, in human colorectal cancer models. Methods: The anti-cancer effects of KMU-11342 were evaluated in colorectal cancer cells and further investigated in three-dimensional (3D) spheroid and patient-derived organoid models. Cell proliferation, migration, apoptosis, and cell cycle progression were assessed. Kinase activity profiling and molecular docking analyses were performed to identify potential targets and characterize the underlying signaling pathways. Results: KMU-11342 significantly inhibited the proliferation and migration of CRC cells. It reduced CRC cell density by 58.9% and 83.3% at 0.5 and 1 μM, respectively. These effects were accompanied by G2/M cell cycle arrest and apoptotic cell death. In 3D models, spheroid formation was markedly reduced and stemness-related characteristics were diminished. Patient-derived CRC organoids also showed decreased viability, exhibiting 38.6% and 77.4% reductions at 1 and 2 μM, respectively. These effects were observed in a dose-dependent manner in both two-dimensional (2D) and 3D colorectal cancer models. Kinase activity profiling and molecular docking analyses identified glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3β) and cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1) as potential mediators of the anti-cancer effects of KMU-11342 through the p53/nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) and FoxO1 signaling axes, respectively. Conclusions: KMU-11342 exhibits potent anti-tumor activity against CRC through suppressing proliferation, migration, and stemness in both 2D and 3D models, including patient-derived organoids. Its effects may be mediated, at least in part, through modulation of GSK3β and CDK1 via the p53/NF-κB and FoxO1 signaling pathways.
Granulosa cells (GCs) are integral to the process of follicular development in poultry, with their differentiation and hormone synthesis being critical for follicle selection. While glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3β) is recognized as a significant regulator of energy metabolism, differentiation, and autophagy, its specific function within GCs remains unclear. Elucidating the role of GSK3β in GCs is essential for deciphering the mechanisms governing follicle selection. Our in vitro studies in GCs from prehierarchical follicles demonstrated that overexpression of GSK3β inhibited both differentiation and proliferation, while simultaneously promoting steroid hormone synthesis. Conversely, GSK3β knockdown yielded the opposite effects. Transcriptomic analyses, supplemented by further validation, revealed that overexpression of GSK3β initiated autophagy and lipid metabolism but impeded autophagic flux, as evidenced by increased LC3-II levels and elevated p62 accumulation. Furthermore, GSK3β overexpression resulted in enhanced intracellular lipid droplet accumulation. These effects, along with the observed rise in progesterone levels and reduction in FSHR levels, were attenuated by co-treatment with rapamycin (Rapa). Mechanistically, our findings suggest that the impairment of autophagic flux induced by GSK3β triggers lipid accumulation, leading to elevated mitochondrial damage and lipid peroxidation, which in turn negatively affects GC differentiation. In conclusion, GSK3β disrupts follicular GC function by initiating autophagy while blocking its flux. This disruption induces excessive lipid accumulation, ultimately inhibiting GC differentiation. This study provides novel insights into the role of GSK3β in poultry follicular development and offers a new theoretical framework for understanding the mechanisms of follicle selection.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Kinase inhibitors (KIs) are essential in targeted cancer therapy but frequently cause cardiotoxicity, limiting their clinical utility. A systematic resource to explore the underlying causal mechanisms is urgently needed.We developed the Kinase Inhibitor Cardiotoxicity Database (KICDB ), an interactive web platform integrating large-scale transcriptomic meta-analysis with causal inference to identify molecular determinants of KI-induced cardiotoxicity.Meta-analysis of 5291 samples revealed a convergent disruption of the cellular mitotic machinery, specifically chromosome segregation and nuclear division, as a shared mechanism of toxicity across multiple KI classes. Furthermore, Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis identified 26 robust causal associations, linking specific kinase targets (e.g. RING finger protein 13 [RNF13] and tyrosine kinase with immunoglobulin like and EGF like domains 1 [TIE1]) to increased risks of cardiomyopathy and myocardial infarction, while identifying TYRO3 protein tyrosine kinase [Tyro3] and Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) as potential cardioprotective factors.KICDB provides a mechanistic framework linking transcriptomic perturbations with genetically validated causal drivers. By linking transcriptomic perturbations with causal validation, it serves as a resource to advance biomarker discovery, mechanistic exploration and the design of cardioprotective strategies.© 2026 British Pharmacological Society.
Preventing or reversing Tau hyperphosphorylation and aggregation represent critical objectives in the development of effective therapies for Alzheimer's disease. The present study investigated the potential of a novel Aronia bioactive fraction-alginic acid nanocomplex (AANCP)-to simultaneously inhibit pathological features of Alzheimer's disease. Evaluations of Aronia bioactive fraction (ABF) and low-molecular-weight alginic acid (LAA), utilized both individually and as AANCP, were conducted in HEK293-TauP301L and SH-SY5Y-TauP301L cell models of Alzheimer's disease. Both ABF and LAA reduced the expression of total Tau and Tau phosphorylated at Ser396 in a concentration-dependent manner, with AANCP demonstrating significant synergistic activity of its components. Notably, the optimal AANCP ratio was 1:1 and 1:8 for inhibiting Tau phosphorylation and Tau aggregation, respectively. Mechanistically, AANCP inhibited Tau phosphorylation by upregulating p-Akt (phosphorylated protein kinase B) and p-GSK-3β (phosphorylated glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta), while also enhancing the activity of methylated PP2A, a key Tau phosphatase. Furthermore, AANCP exhibited superior efficacy in inhibiting heparin-induced Tau aggregation compared to the individual components. Analysis of autophagy markers indicated that the nanocomplex enhanced Tau clearance, as shown by increased LC3-II and Beclin-1 levels and reduced p62 levels. These results suggest AANCP as a promising therapeutic candidate that simultaneously reduces Tau phosphorylation and aggregation and facilitates autophagic Tau clearance, offering a potent, synergistic strategy for treating Alzheimer's disease.
Age-related neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), are characterized by the accumulation of pathological Tau protein (tauopathy), which drives neurotoxicity and cognitive decline. Although SUMOylation significantly influences tauopathy, the underlying mechanisms remain largely elusive. Here, utilizing a bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assay to monitor Tau-Tau aggregation and screen for SUMO E3 ligases, we identified PIAS1 as a critical driver of Tau pathology. Genetic analysis of the UK Biobank cohort revealed that single nucleotide polymorphisms in the PIAS1 gene (rs8036154 and rs112677781) are significantly associated with a reduced risk of AD. Consistent with this clinical relevance, PIAS1 expression is upregulated in postmortem AD brains, aging PS19 tauopathy mice, aged wild-type mice, aged lemurs, and neurons stimulated with amyloid-beta or lipopolysaccharide. Viral-mediated modulation of PIAS1 in vivo demonstrated that PIAS1 promotes Tau hyperphosphorylation and aggregation, thereby exacerbating synaptic dysfunction and cognitive deficits. Mechanistically, we found that PIAS1 directly interacts with and mediates the SUMOylation of glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3β) at lysine residues 183 and 271. This specific SUMOylation reduces inhibitory phosphorylation at Ser9, consequently enhancing GSK3β-mediated Tau kinase activity. Importantly, we engineered a cell-permeable blocking peptide designed to disrupt the PIAS1-GSK3β interaction. Administration of this peptide effectively suppressed GSK3β activation and mitigated tauopathy and neurodegeneration in both in vitro and in vivo models. Together, our findings uncover a novel PIAS1-GSK3β signaling axis in tauopathy and provide a promising targeted therapeutic strategy for Alzheimer's disease.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Sepsis is frequently accompanied by central nervous system involvement, leading to sepsis-associated encephalopathy characterized by neuroinflammation, microvascular dysfunction, and neuronal injury. Despite increasing recognition of its clinical impact, effective neuroprotective strategies remain limited. Modafinil (MOD), a wakefulness-promoting agent, has recently attracted attention for its anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and neuroprotective properties in experimental models. Experimental sepsis was induced by intraperitoneal administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in adult female Wistar rats. Animals were randomly assigned to four groups: control, LPS, LPS plus MOD, and MOD alone. Cerebral tissue was harvested six hours after LPS administration. Caspase-3 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) expressions were assessed by immunohistochemistry. Oxidative stress was evaluated by measuring total oxidant status (TOS), total antioxidant status (TAS), and the oxidative stress index (OSI) in cerebral tissue homogenates. Gene expression levels of AKT1, glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3B), sirtuin 1 (SIRT1), and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) were analyzed by quantitative PCR. LPS administration produced significant increases in Caspase-3 and TNF-α immunoreactivity in both cerebral cortex and cerebellum. At the oxidative stress level, LPS significantly elevated TOS and OSI while reducing TAS, indicating a pronounced shift toward pro-oxidant conditions. At the molecular level, LPS significantly increased GSK3B expression while reducing HO-1 expression. MOD treatment significantly reduced Caspase-3 and TNF-α immunoreactivity in both regions, restored the oxidative balance as evidenced by significantly attenuated TOS and OSI levels, and significantly suppressed GSK3B upregulation, whereas its effect on HO-1, AKT1, and SIRT1 expression did not reach statistical significance. MOD mitigates sepsis-induced cerebral and cerebellar injury by attenuating neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and apoptosis. The accompanying decrease in GSK3B expression suggests that GSK3β-related signaling may contribute to these effects, although this relationship is associative rather than causal. MOD may therefore warrant further evaluation as a neuroprotective agent in sepsis-related CNS injury.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42417900 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42386156 is a review article
To investigate the anti-fibrotic effects of Isofraxidin (IF) on liver fibrosis and its underlying mechanisms.C57BL/6J mice (bred by The Jackson Laboratory) were induced with liver fibrosis using CCl4 and treated with different doses of IF (20 mg/kg and 40 mg/kg) via gavage. Colchicine served as the positive control. Liver fibrosis markers (α-smooth muscle actin,α-SMA; Fibronectin, FN; Collagen type I, Col-I) were assessed by histological staining, immunohistochemistry, and western blotting. Network pharmacology and molecular docking were adopted to conjecture underlying targets and signaling pathways of IF, followed by experimental validation.IF at various doses improved liver function and exhibited dose-dependent anti-fibrotic effects. Network pharmacology identified Protein kinase Kinase B (PKB, Akt), Proto-oncogene tyrosine-protein kinase (Src), Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), Heat Shock Protein 90 Alpha Family Class A Member 1 (HSP90AA1), Glycogen Synthase Kinase 3 beta (GSK3β), and Monoamine Oxidase B (MAOB) as the core targets. Molecular docking showed good binding affinity between IF and these targets. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses indicated that the Nuclear Factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB) signaling pathway is a major pathway involved in IF's anti-fibrotic effects. Experimental validation confirmed that IF inhibited the expression of inflammatory factors (Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha, TNF-α; Interleukin-1 beta, IL-1β; Interleukin-10, IL-10) and the phosphorylation of NF-κB and Inhibitor of Nuclear Factor Kappa B Alpha (IκBα).IF effectively alleviated CCl4-induced liver fibrosis in mice by modulating key targets (AkT, Src, EGFR, HSP90AA1, GSK3B, and MAOB) and the NF-κB signaling pathway.©The Author(s) 2026. Open Access. This article is licensed under a Creative Commons CC-BY International License.
Recent studies have revealed heterogeneity among ribosomes. Pathological cardiac hypertrophy is characterized by profound alterations in translation. However, how ribosome heterogeneity contributes to this process remains largely unclear.We used translating ribosome affinity purification coupled with mass spectrometry to profile ribosome-interacting proteins. Cardiomyocyte-specific gene manipulation was achieved through either genetic knockout or adeno-associated virus-mediated overexpression. Pathological cardiac hypertrophy was induced by transverse aortic constriction surgery in vivo and by phenylephrine stimulation in vitro.The cardiomyocyte-specific ribosome proteomics indicated dynamic alterations in ribosome-interacting proteins during pathological hypertrophy. Notably, multiple proteins associated with ribosome stalling were detected in the ribosome-interactome of hypertrophic hearts. Among these, we verified that CDK5RAP3 (CDK5 regulatory subunit-associated protein 3) exhibited the most specific ribosome binding in hypertrophic hearts. CDK5RAP3 was upregulated and recruited to ribosomes during pathological hypertrophy. It promoted RPL26 (ribosomal protein L26) UFMylation and ribosome-associated quality control on the mitochondrial surface. In vitro, CDK5RAP3 knockdown exacerbated cardiomyocyte hypertrophy induced by phenylephrine, whereas its overexpression attenuated it. In vivo, cardiomyocyte-specific CDK5RAP3 knockout promoted, while adeno-associated virus-mediated overexpression suppressed pathological cardiac hypertrophy induced by transverse aortic constriction. Mechanistically, ribosome stalling on the mitochondrial surface was exacerbated in hypertrophic hearts of both humans and mice, which was associated with impaired mitochondrial protein import. CDK5RAP3 enhanced ribosome-associated quality control, alleviated ribosome stalling, and restored mitochondrial protein import, thereby improving mitochondrial function. Notably, mitochondrial import of PDP1 was maintained by CDK5RAP3-mediated ribosome-associated quality control. Knockdown of PDK (pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase) 1/2, functional antagonists of PDP1, reversed cardiomyocyte hypertrophy caused by CDK5RAP3 deficiency.This study identifies CDK5RAP3-mediated ribosome-associated quality control on the mitochondrial surface as a critical protective mechanism that preserves protein import and mitochondrial function during pathological cardiac hypertrophy.
Glycolytic dependency in solid tumors underlies resistance to current therapies. We developed antitumoral fetal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles (itAT-FSC-EVs) using an ex vivo multistage conditioning workflow to enhance their metabolism-modulating capacity and evaluated their effects in cellular and animal models. In colorectal (HCT116) and hepatic (HepG2) cancer cells, itAT-FSC-EVs reduced lactate release and downregulated pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 1, indicating pyruvate influx into mitochondria. This was accompanied by reduced glycolytic activity, increased oxygen consumption, and elevated mitochondrial membrane potential. Reactive oxygen species accumulated and contributed to cytotoxicity, culminating in apoptosis, whereas normal HEK293 cells remained viable with transient oxidative stress. Cancer cells exhibited suppression of lipogenic genes, including fatty acid synthase, reduced mitochondrial mass and a sustained increase in the NADP/NADPH ratio, indicating impaired redox buffering despite enhanced respiration. In HCT116 xenografts, systemic itAT-FSC-EV administration reduced tumor growth and lowered pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 1 and fatty acid synthase levels, supporting a metabolic reset in vivo. These findings indicate that itAT-FSC-EVs reprogram malignant cells from glycolytic dependence toward mitochondrial oxidative metabolism, disrupt redox homeostasis, and induce cell death. This approach may synergistically modulate the tumor niche with immunotherapy by lowering lactate production, an immunosuppressive factor in solid tumors. Thus, itAT-FSC-EVs represent a metabolism-rewiring biological system with translational potential for normalizing tumor metabolism and complementing existing anticancer modalities.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Complement C1q-binding protein (C1QBP) is exploited by protozoan parasites. In this forum, we summarize direct evidence for C1QBP as an adhesion receptor (Plasmodium) and an immune subversion target (Toxoplasma), highlight gaps, and propose research priorities to define C1QBP as a multifunctional signaling hub at the host-parasite interface.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) is a progressive lung disease characterized by abnormal extracellular matrix (ECM) accumulation, leading to respiratory dysfunction and eventual respiratory failure. The pathogenesis involves fibroblast migration, proliferation, and activation via the CXCL12/CXCR4 axis, resulting in collagen deposition and ECM accumulation. Additionally, this axis drives epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and angiogenesis. Under hypoxic conditions induced by ECM accumulation, pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 1 (PDK1) further promotes fibroblasts differentiation into myofibroblasts by enhancing metabolic reprogramming towards glycolysis. To target these multifaceted pathological processes, a collagenase-coated polymeric drug/siRNA delivery system is engineered. This system comprises PPLFazo, hypoxia-responsive polymer of plerixafor (CXCR4 inhibitor), loaded with PDK1 siRNA (siPDK1) and encapsulated by collagenase-conjugated polyglutamic acid. Upon inhalation, the collagenase degrades ECM barrier, facilitating PPLFazo/siPDK1 recognition and endocytosis by fibroblasts. In the hypoxic microenvironment, both plerixafor monomers and siPDK1 are released, exerting their targeted therapeutic effects. Pharmacodynamic evaluations in murine PF models demonstrated that PPLFazo/siPDK1@G-CLG reduced myofibroblast accumulation, decreased collagen deposition, and attenuated abnormal fibrotic tissue growth in the lungs. These findings collectively indicate substantial amelioration of PF. By simultaneously targeting multiple pathological pathways, this system offers a novel strategy to combat this challenging disease, potentially improving patient outcomes.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Macroautophagy/autophagy is an evolutionarily conserved degradation pathway wherein cytoplasmic components are sequestered within double-membrane autophagosomes for lysosomal delivery. The initiation of autophagy is governed by autophagy-related (ATG) proteins, with the ULK1 kinase complex serving as the most upstream regulator. However, how ULK1 senses and integrates metabolic signals via post-translational modifications remains poorly understood. Here, we discover that ULK1 undergoes lactylation at lysine 46, catalyzed by the mitochondrial aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase AARS2, in response to autophagic stimuli. This modification promotes ULK1 kinase activity, leading to enhanced and selective phosphorylation of its downstream substrate ATG14 at Ser29, thereby activating the class III PtdIns3K complex and facilitating autophagosome biogenesis. Furthermore, we demonstrate that AARS2-mediated ULK1 lactylation drives autophagic flux and promotes tumor metastasis in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC), and that a cell-penetrating peptide targeting K46 lactylation suppresses ccRCC progression in vitro and in vivo. Our study identifies lactylation as a novel regulatory mechanism controlling autophagy initiation and suggests that targeting AARS2-mediated ULK1 lactylation could be a potential strategy for treating ccRCC.Abbreviations: AARS2: alanyl-tRNA synthetase 2, mitochondrial; ATG14: autophagy related 14; Baf.A1: bafilomycin A1; ccRCC: clear cell renal cell carcinoma; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CPP: cell-penetrating peptide; EBSS: Earle's balanced salt solution; HIF: hypoxia-inducible factor; K46la: lactylation at lysine 46; Kla: lysine lactylation; KO: knockout; LDHA: lactate dehydrogenase A; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MTORC1: MTOR complex 1; PtdIns3K: class III phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase; PTM: post-translational modification; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TCGA-KIRC: The Cancer Genome Atlas-Kidney Renal Clear Cell Carcinoma; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; VHL: von Hippel-Lindau tumor suppressor; WT: wild-type.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2026.1800870.].Copyright © 2026 Kalra, Tamai, Sarkar, Han, Miyagi, Sasaki and Ishikawa.
Accumulating evidence indicates that the anterior and posterior maculae flavae of the human vocal fold mucosa function as niches for tissue stem cells. This study aimed to characterize the oxygen microenvironment of the maculae flavae in the newborn vocal fold and to clarify its potential involvement in metabolic regulation and the preservation of stem cell characteristics at birth.Immunohistochemical analyses were performed on vocal fold specimens obtained from five normal human newborns at birth.Cells located within the maculae flavae demonstrated immunoreactivity for hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), supporting the presence of a hypoxic microenvironment. These cells also expressed lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA), a key enzyme in anaerobic glycolysis, and pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 1 (PDK1), which inhibits mitochondrial pyruvate oxidation, indicating a metabolic preference for glycolysis over oxidative phosphorylation. In addition, cytoglobin, an oxygen-binding protein known to modulate intracellular oxygen homeostasis and suppress mitochondrial activity, was also expressed.The findings indicate that the maculae flavae of the human newborn vocal fold are characterized by a hypoxic microenvironment in which resident cells predominantly depend on anaerobic glycolysis for energy production. This HIF-1α-mediated hypoxic condition may contribute to the maintenance of stem cell properties by limiting oxidative metabolism and reducing the accumulation of reactive oxygen species. Already at birth, such metabolic regulation is likely essential for preserving the undifferentiated state of stem cells and supporting the regenerative potential of the vocal fold mucosa.NA.© 2026 The Author(s). Laryngoscope Investigative Otolaryngology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Triological Society.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by the progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. However, the underlying pathogenic mechanisms of PD remain incompletely defined, and effective treatments are lacking. N-acetyltransferase 10 (NAT10) catalyzes N4-acetylcytidine (ac4C) modification of mRNA, a process crucial for mRNA stability and translational efficiency. However, whether NAT10-mediated ac4C modification contributes to PD and the molecular mechanisms underlying its involvement remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the role of NAT10 and its ac4C-mediated transcriptomic regulation in PD and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms. In vivo and in vitro PD models were generated, and the expression levels of NAT10 and global ac4C modification were assessed. Experimental results revealed that NAT10 expression and global RNA ac4C levels were significantly increased in PD models and were positively associated with dopaminergic neuronal apoptosis. Knockdown of NAT10 reduced dopaminergic neuronal apoptosis, while overexpression exacerbated this apoptosis. Mechanistically, NAT10 may enhance ac4C modification of pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 1 (PDK1) mRNA, thereby increasing its stability and translational efficiency. Upregulated PDK1 promoted phosphorylation of the pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) E1α subunit, leading to reduced PDH complex activity, decreased adenosine triphosphate (ATP) production, and increased lactate accumulation, possibly contributing to dopaminergic neuronal apoptosis. Importantly, treatment with the NAT10-targeting compound Remodelin alleviated dopaminergic neuron loss and improved motor deficits in PD models. Collectively, these findings suggest that NAT10/ac4C-associated dysfunction of the PDK1/PDH axis contributes to altered energy metabolism and dopaminergic neuronal apoptosis in PD models, supporting NAT10 as a potential intervention target for PD.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Aging is associated with impaired T cell immune responses, raising the susceptibility of the elderly to infections and cancers. Aged T cells exhibit impaired T cell responses to T cell receptor (TCR) stimulation accompanied by reduced glycolytic activity, but the molecular basis of these defects is largely elusive. Using data-independent acquisition (DIA) mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis, we identified pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 1 (PDHK1), a key glycolytic enzyme, as significantly downregulated in aged murine T cells. This loss of PDHK1 expression was confirmed in both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells from aged mice, regardless of their naïve or activated state. Consistent with this, aged T cells exhibited defects in the activation of glycolysis immediately after TCR stimulation. Furthermore, CRISPR-mediated Pdhk1 deletion in young T cells led to defective activation and effector molecule expression upon TCR stimulation, whereas enforced PDHK1 expression in aged T cells facilitated these responses. These data suggest that aging diminishes PDHK1 expression in T cells, contributing to impaired glycolysis and T cell responses, which can be therapeutically restored by PDHK1 overexpression.Copyright © 2026 Kalra, Tamai, Sarkar, Han, Miyagi, Sasaki and Ishikawa.
Mitochondrial dysfunction is widely considered one of the key initiating factors leading to Parkinson's disease (PD). Mitophagy plays a critical role in maintaining mitochondrial homeostasis. Complement C1q-binding protein (C1QBP) plays a crucial role in regulating mitophagy and maintaining mitochondrial homeostasis. This study aims to investigate the role of C1QBP in the pathogenesis of PD by employing bidirectional modulation of C1QBP expression in the PD models. Our results showed reduced C1QBP expression in PD models. C1QBP deficiency aggravated motor dysfunction and dopaminergic neuron degeneration induced by MPTP, while its overexpression exerts protective effects. Mechanistically, C1QBP ameliorates MPP+-induced mitochondrial dysfunction, thereby attenuating neuronal loss. Furthermore, C1QBP promotes mitophagy to maintain mitochondrial homeostasis in PD models. However, these neuroprotective effects of C1QBP were abolished upon UNC-51-Like Kinase 1 (ULK1) knockdown. Collectively, our study has identified C1QBP as a novel guardian for dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease by targeting ULK1 to promote mitophagy and maintain mitochondrial function.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Distal ischemic necrosis remains a major challenge in reconstructive surgery. Mitochondria and lysosomes interact via signaling and membrane contacts to maintain cellular homeostasis. Mitochondrial-derived peptide MOTS-c, encoded by the MT-RNR1/12S rRNA open reading frame, enhances mitochondrial function by reducing reactive oxygen species (ROS) and stabilizing the membrane potential, potentially preserving lysosomal integrity and reducing lysosomal membrane permeabilization (LMP). This study investigated the protective effects and underlying mechanisms of MOTS-c in ischemic flaps. RNA sequencing explored MOTS-c mechanisms in ischemic flaps. Tissue clearing, laser speckle contrast imaging and Doppler analyses revealed improved blood flow perfusion following MOTS-c treatment. Histological staining (HE, Masson, F-CHP) demonstrated enhanced angiogenesis and collagen remodeling. Western blotting, ELISA, and immunofluorescence were used to assess pyroptosis, macroautophagy/autophagy, LMP, and MAPK1/ERK2-MAPK3/ERK1-NFKB/NF-κB pathway-related proteins. MOTS-c reduced endothelial pyroptosis, enhanced autophagy, and attenuated LMP in ischemic flaps. Mechanistically, in vivo overexpression of PLA2G4A/cPLA2 (phospholipase A2, group IVA (calcium, calcium dependent)) via AAV confirmed that MOTS-c enhances autophagy and reduces pyroptosis and LMP by suppressing PLA2G4A phosphorylation. Furthermore, MOTS-c inhibited PLA2G4A via the MAPK1-MAPK3-NFKB signaling cascade, thereby reducing LMP and enhancing flap survival. These findings suggest that MOTS-c restores cellular homeostasis by targeting the PLA2G4A-LMP axis, representing a promising therapeutic strategy for improving outcomes in ischemic flap surgery.Abbreviations: AA = arachidonic acid, AAV = adeno-associated virus, ACTA2/α-SMA = actin alpha 2, smooth muscle, aorta, ALs = autolysosomes, BECN1 = beclin 1, CASP1 = caspase 1, CQ = chloroquine, CTSB = cathepsin B, CTSD = cathepsin D, CTSL = cathepsin L, Co-IP = co-immunoprecipitation, DEGs = differentially expressed genes, ELISA = enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, F-CHP = 5-FAM-conjugated collagen hybridizing peptide staining, GSDMD = gasdermin D, GO = gene Ontology, GPT/ALT = glutamic pyruvic transaminase, soluble, GOT1/AST = glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1, soluble, HE = hematoxylin-eosin, HUVECs = human umbilical vein endothelial cells, IP/MS = immunoprecipitation coupled with mass spectrometry, IL1B/IL-1β = interleukin 1 beta, IL18 = interleukin 18, IP = intraperitoneal injection, IV = intravenous injection, LDBF = laser Doppler blood flow, LMP = lysosomal membrane permeability, MAP1LC3/LC3 = microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3, MAPK = mitogen-activated protein kinase, NAGLU = alpha-N-acetylglucosaminidase (Sanfilippo disease IIIB), NFKB/NF-κB = nuclear factor kappa B, NLRP1 = NLR family pyrin domain containing 1, NLRP3 = NLR family pyrin domain containing 3, PECAM1/CD31 = platelet/endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1, PLA2G4A/cPLA2 = phospholipase A2, group IVA (cytosolic, calcium-dependent), PYCARD/ASC = PYD and CARD domain containing, PIK3C3/VPS34 = phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3, PMA = phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, ROS = reactive oxygen speciesSQSTM1/p62 = sequestosome 1, SPR = surface plasmon resonance, scRNA-seq = single-cell RNA sequencing, UMAP = uniform manifold approximation and projection, WB = western blotting.
The term CASM describes a process in which MAP1LC3B/LC3B and other Atg8-family proteins are covalently ligated to lipids in damaged endomembranes. While CASM is commonly described as a cytoprotective response to multiple types of membrane damage, how CASM helps cells maintain homeostasis is still unclear. Here, we show that CASM maintains Golgi apparatus architecture following the loss of TRIM46, a ubiquitin ligase with roles in microtubule organization. TRIM46 deficient cells were notable for enhanced TFEB-driven lysosomal biogenesis and Golgi ribbon fragmentation, with colocalization of the trans-Golgi marker TGOLN2 and the Atg8-family proteins LC3B and GABARAP. Further studies revealed that the Golgi Atg8ylation seen in TRIM46 knockout cells was not degradative and mechanistically resembled CASM. Genetic inhibition of CASM in TRIM46 deficient cells reduced TFEB activation and exacerbated the Golgi morphology defects, suggesting that CASM contributes to Golgi repair. Accordingly, Golgi reformation after drug-induced fragmentation was impaired upon knockdown of CASM genes. Together, these studies identify lysosomal biogenesis and CASM as coordinated features of a Golgi damage response, with CASM acting to preserve Golgi integrity.Abbreviations: AMPK (AMP-activated protein kinase); ATG3 (autophagy related 3); ATG5 (autophagy related 5); ATG7 (autophagy related 7); ATG12 (autophagy related 12); ATG13 (autophagy related 13); ATG16L1 (autophagy related 16 like 1); BECN1 (beclin 1); CASM, conjugation of Atg8 to single membranes; GABARAP (GABA type A receptor-associated protein); GABARAPL1 (GABA type A receptor associated protein like 1); GABARAPL2 (GABA type A receptor associated protein like 2); GOLGA2 (golgin A2); HT (HaloTag); HL (HaloTag ligand); MAP1LC3A/LC3A (microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 alpha); MAP1LC3B/LC3B (microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta); MAP1LC3C/LC3C (microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 gamma); MTORC1 (mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase complex 1); PE (phosphatidylethanolamine); PIK3C3/VPS34 (phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3); PS (phosphatidylserine); TECPR1 (tectonin beta-propellor repeat containing 1); SQSTM1/p62 (sequestosome 1); TFEB (transcription factor EB); TFE3 (transcription factor binding to IGHM enhancer 3); TGOLN2 (trans-golgi network protein 2); TRIM46 (tripartite motif containing 46); ULK1 (unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1); ULK2 (unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 2): VAIL (V-ATPase-ATG16L1 induced LC3 lipidation).
Ischemic stroke is a severe medical condition characterized by diminished blood flow to the brain, resulting in a shortage of oxygen and nutrients. During ischemia, neurons surrounding the cerebral infarct initiate macroautophagy. However, the implications of this activation for neuronal cell survival are still debated. The identification of new autophagy modulators could aid in understanding autophagy's role in brain ischemia and lay the groundwork for innovative therapeutic strategies aimed at minimizing brain damage in this life-threatening neurological emergency. In this study, we developed a robust and sensitive screening platform to identify autophagy modulators from a library of bioactive compounds. Selected compounds underwent further in vitro validation, leading to the identification of duloxetine, a Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved drug, as an effective autophagy inhibitor at low-micromolar concentrations. Following its original characterization, the molecule, a serotonin-norepinephrine re-uptake inhibitor (SNRI) family member, was subsequently tested in young and aged mice subjected to photothrombotic stroke. Our results demonstrated that duloxetine significantly reduced infarct size and improved locomotor performance in mice that had undergone a stroke. Similar protective effects were observed in transgenic mice lacking the autophagy gene Atg5 (autophagy related 5) in SLC17A6/Vglut2+ (solute carrier family 17 member 6) excitatory cortical neurons. Finally, we elucidated the underlying mechanism of action that involves duloxetine-mediated inhibition of TRPM2 (transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 2) ion channels. Altogether, our findings suggest that early autophagy inhibition is neuroprotective in stroke, and duloxetine serves as an effective means of achieving this inhibition.Abbreviation: AMPK - AMP-activated protein kinase; ATG5 - autophagy related 5; AVs - autophagic vacuoles; Baf -bafilomycin A1; BBB - blood-brain barrier; BECN1 -beclin 1; CAMK2 -calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase II; cCASP3 -cleaved CASP3; cKO -conditional knockout; CNS -central nervous system; DMPK - drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics; DMSO -dimethyl sulfoxide; DIV - days in vitro; DMEM - Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium; FDA - Food and Drug Administration; FBS -fetal bovine serum; GFP -green fluorescent protein; GFAP -glial fibrillary acidic protein; HIF1A/HIF-1α - hypoxia inducible factor 1 subunit alpha; HMGCR - 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase; IHC - immunohistochemistry; I/R - ischemia-reperfusion; LAMP1 - lysosomal associated membrane protein 1; MAP1LC3B/LC3B -microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MCAO - middle cerebral artery occlusion; MFI -mean fluorescence intensity; MTT - 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5 diphenyl tetrazolium bromide; ND -nutrient deprivation; NPCs -neural precursor cells; NVU -neuro-vascular unit; OGD - oxygen-glucose deprivation; PI - propidium iodide; PIKK - phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-like; PRKDC/DNA-PKcs - protein kinase, DNA-activated, catalytic subunit; SQSTM1/p62 -sequestosome 1; PIK3C3/VPS34 - phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3; PK-hLC3 -pHluorin-mKate2-human LC3; PLP1 - proteolipid protein 1; PT - photothrombotic; ROS -reactive oxygen species; SLC17A6/Vglut2 - solute carrier family 17 member 6; S:N -signal-to-noise; SSMD - strictly standardized mean difference; SNRIs - serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake Inhibitors; TTC - 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride; TEER - transendothelial electrical resistance; TEM - transmission electron microscopy; TRPM2 -transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 2; TBI -traumatic brain injury; ULK1 - unc-51 like autophagy activating ainase 1; V-ATPase - vacuolar-type H+-translocating ATPase.
To investigate the key targets and mechanisms of the Wenyang Huayin decoction (WYHYD, ) in treating bronchial asthma with cold fluid retention syndrome using network pharmacology and animal experiments.On the one hand, we used network pharmacology method to explored the chemical components of the WYHYD and the main targets of bronchial asthma were acquired. Besides, a protein interaction network was built after protein interaction analysis to find potential protein functional modules. Then, we constructed the "WYHYD component-bronchial asthma target-pathway" network. On the other hand, the experimental intervention was as follows: first, we formed a rat model of bronchial asthma. Thereafter, we used the WYHYD to treat the disease while observing autophagy-related indicators as the core target of network pharmacology.The network pharmacology revealed that there are 122 potential therapeutic targets in treating bronchial asthma with WYHYD. The biological processes mainly involved in the WYHYD included Gene Ontology: 0110032: positive regulation of G2/MI transition of the medical cell cycle etc. and four major signaling pathways were involved. During laboratory investigations, various signs and clinical manifestations of the rat model group were the same. After administering the WYHYD, lung function, pathological sections, inflammatory factors, and other microscopic indicators improved to varying degrees, providing evidence for the study results. Meanwhile, we verified that the core targets of WYHYD in treating asthma through the intervention of autophagy are tumor necrosis factor, caspase 8, interleukin 1 beta, sirtuin 1, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3, C-C chemokine receptor type 7, L/YN kinase, and protein tyrosine kinase 2.This preliminary study revealed the treatment process of bronchial asthma with multi-component, multi-target, and multi-pathway mechanisms of the WYHYD.
Impaired osteogenic differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) contributes to osteoporosis (OP) pathogenesis. While RNA modifications such as N6-methyladenosine (m6A) regulate stem cell differentiation, their role in OP remains unclear. Transcriptomic analysis revealed upregulated basic helix-loop-helix family member e22 (Bhlhe22) in OP-BMSCs. This study aimed to investigate whether dysregulated m6A modification contributes to OP by upregulating Bhlhe22, thereby impairing the osteogenic differentiation of BMSCs.Female Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to ovariectomy (OVX) to establish an OP model. BMSCs were isolated, characterized by flow cytometry and trilineage differentiation, and subjected to osteogenic induction. Bhlhe22 expression was modulated via lentiviral overexpression, siRNA-mediated knockdown, and adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated shRNA knockdown in vivo. Gene expression was assessed by immunofluorescence, quantitative PCR (qPCR), western blotting, and RNA sequencing. Osteogenic differentiation was evaluated via alkaline phosphatase (ALP), alizarin red S (ARS) staining, and osteogenic marker expression. Micro-computed tomography (micro-CT) and histology were used to assess bone structure. Mechanisms were investigated via PI3K-Akt pathway activation (recilisib), chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq), ChIP-qPCR, dot blot, methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP)-qPCR, luciferase reporter assays, and site-directed mutagenesis.Global m6A levels were dysregulated in OP-BMSCs. Bhlhe22 mRNA and protein levels were significantly elevated in OP-BMSC and OVX rat femurs. Bhlhe22 knockdown restored the osteogenic potential in OP-BMSCs and increased the bone volume/trabecular thickness in OVX rats, whereas Bhlhe22 overexpression inhibited osteogenesis. BHLHE22 repressed osteogenesis by directly transactivating phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunit 3 (Pik3r3), activating the PI3K-AKT-GSK3β pathway. Crucially, m6A modification at position 2023 stabilized Bhlhe22 mRNA, increasing its expression. Mutation of this m6A site reduced the inhibitory effect of Bhlhe22.m6A modification stabilizes Bhlhe22 mRNA, leading to its overexpression in OP. Elevated BHLHE22 protein suppresses BMSC osteogenesis by transcriptionally activating Pik3r3 and the PI3K-AKT-GSK3β signaling axis. Targeting the m6A-Bhlhe22-PI3K axis represents a promising therapeutic strategy for osteoporosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Atherosclerosis is attributable to a series of diabetes-related complications. CAV1 (caveolin 1)-mediated low-density lipoprotein (LDL) particle transcytosis across endothelial cells (ECs) is the initial step of atherosclerosis. MAP1LC3/LC3-interacting regions in the intramembrane domain (IMD) of CAV1 were buried in the caveolae and were not accessible for LC3B interaction, protecting CAV1 from autophagic degradation. However, the CSD domain of CAV1, exposed in the cytosol, directly interacted with a CBM domain of LC3B and inhibited autophagy. Therefore, the peptide IMD-CBM was constructed to induce the selective autophagic degradation of CAV1 and suppress LDL transcytosis in diabetic atherosclerosis. EC-specific expression of IMD-CBM was achieved using adenovirus. IMD-CBM directly interacted with CAV1 and LC3B in ECs, leading to the selective autophagic degradation of CAV1, activation of autophagy, and subsequent inhibition of LDL transcytosis. IMD-CBM promoted the autophagic degradation of CAV1 and consequently reduced the area of atherosclerotic plaques in apoe-/- diabetic atherosclerotic mice. Overall, IMD-CBM expedited the autophagic degradation of CAV1 and inhibited high glucose-induced LDL transcytosis, highlighting its potential as a novel translatable strategy for the management of diabetic atherosclerosis.Abbreviations: ACTB: actin beta; AKT/protein kinase B: AKT serine/threonine kinase; AMPK: 5'-adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase; CAV1: caveolin 1; CBM: CAV1-binding motif; CRP: C-reactive protein; CSD: CAV1-scaffolding domain; GFP: green fluorescent protein; HUVEC: human umbilical vein endothelial cell; EC: endothelial cell; FITC: fluorescein isothiocyanate; IL6: interleukin 6; IL10: interleukin 10; IMD: intramembrane domain; LDL: low-density lipoprotein; LIR: LC3-interacting region; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; NFKB/NF-κB: nuclear factor kappa B; NFKBIA/IκBα: NFKB inhibitor alpha; NO: nitric oxide; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PCR: polymerase chain reaction; PIK3C3/VPS34: phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3; Rapa: rapamycin; SAA: serum amyloid A; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STZ: streptozotocin; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor.
Salivary duct carcinoma (SDC) is a rare and aggressive malignant tumor, with scarce reports on its pathogenesis and treatment methods. This study aims to explore the potential biomarkers of SDC. SDC cases were analyzed using Illumina microarrays, and Limma identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between cancer and normal tissues. An intersection of these DEGs with the differential genes from the GSE138581 dataset was obtained through Venn analysis to identify the core DEGs. The core DEGs were analyzed by search Tool for the retrieval of interacting genes/proteins (STRING) and cytoscape to identify the genes most related to the disease in SDC patients. Core genes were enriched with gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes (KEGG); their pan-cancer implications and immune aspects were studied. Finally, the core DEGs were initially validated by immunohistochemistry in SDC samples. Fifty DEGs were found by exome sequencing, 3158 by the GSE138581 microarray. Thirteen common genes were identified by Venn analysis, and ten core genes, including Forkhead box M1 (FOXM1), collagen, type XI, alpha 1 (COL11A1), and neuron navigator 2 (NAV2), were selected. GO enrichment of core genes included positive regulation of calcium ion transport and ATPase activity, and KEGG analysis focused on related pathways. Expression was evaluated across 34 cancers from the TCGA database, and immune DEG Phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunit 5 (PIK3R5) was identified. The obtained DEGs were further validated by immunohistochemistry (IHC). Identifying the DEGs not only helps improve our understanding of SDC pathogenesis but also promises to identify potential biomarkers and new therapeutic targets.
Reticulophagy regulator 1 (RETREG1)/Family with sequence similarity 134 member B (FAM134B) is a selective endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-phagy receptor that mediates starvation-induced macro-ER-phagy, but whether it participates in other pathways mediating ER turnover has remained unclear. Here, we unveil a previously unrecognized role for RETREG1 in micro-ER-phagy and show how the murine leukemia virus (MLV) accessory protein glycosylated group-specific antigen (glycoGag) exploits this pathway to antagonize the host restriction factor SERINC5 (serine incorporator 5). GlycoGag binds SERINC5 in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and selectively recruits RETREG1 to eliminate SERINC5 through an autophagosome-independent process that bypasses ATG3 (autophagy-related), ATG5, ATG7, BECN1 (Beclin-1), LC3 (microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3) lipidation, and PIK3C3 (phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3)/hVPS34 (vacuolar protein sorting 34). RETREG1 knockout abolishes degradation of ER-retained SERINC5, whereas endolysosomal turnover of surface SERINC5 remains partially intact, demonstrating that glycoGag utilizes dual ER-phagy and endolysosomal routes to suppress SERINC5. These findings expand the functional repertoire of RETREG1 in autophagy, identify that retroviruses repurpose micro-ER-phagy to circumvent SERINC5-mediated restriction, and reveal ER-phagy as an understudied battleground in the ongoing arms race between cellular restriction factors and viral accessory proteins.© 2025 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.
Melanoma, a lethal form of skin cancer, is closely linked to mutations in melanocytes. Due to increased resistance to chemotherapy, innovative strategies, including gene and combination therapies, are being explored. This study evaluates the effects of trehalose (TRE) and hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) in enhancing the efficacy of BRAF (V600E)-siRNA in A375 cells.The A375 cells were treated, and changes in cell viability were assessed using MTT assays. Apoptosis was evaluated using flow cytometry. Additionally, gene expression analysis of B-Raf proto-oncogene, serine/threonine kinase (BRAF), Caspase 3 (CASP3), and Phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunit 3 (PIK3R3) was performed using quantitative RT-PCR.HCQ treatment reduced cell viability and increased apoptosis compared to both control cells and cells treated with TRE. Gene expression analysis showed a significant down-regulation of BRAF expression in cells treated with HCQ and BRAF (V600E)-siRNA compared to siRNA-only treated cells. CASP3 expression was significantly up-regulated in cells treated with combined HCQ and siRNA, indicating a stronger apoptotic response. PIK3R3 expression showed no significant change in the transfected groups.TRE, either alone or combined with siRNA, showed limited efficacy and may counteract the apoptotic benefits of HCQ. Conversely, HCQ, whether used alone or in combination with siRNA, enhanced apoptosis, suggesting promise as a potential treatment for melanoma.© 2025. This work is openly licensed via CC BY 4.0.
The mammalian class III phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase complex (PtdIns3K) forms two biochemically and functionally distinct subcomplexes including the ATG14-containing complex I (PtdIns3K-C1) and the UVRAG-containing complex II (PtdIns3K-C2). Both subcomplexes adopt a V-shaped architecture with a BECN1-ATG14 or UVRAG adaptor arm and a PIK3R4/VPS15-PIK3C3/VPS34 catalytic arm. NRBF2 is a pro-autophagic modulator that specifically associates with PtdIns3K-C1 to enhance its kinase activity and promotes macroautophagy/autophagy. How NRBF2 exerts such a positive effect is not fully understood. Here we report that NRBF2 binds to PIK3R4/VPS15 with moderate affinity through a conserved site on its N-terminal MIT domain. The NRBF2-PIK3R4/VPS15 interaction is incompatible with the UVRAG-containing PtdIns3K-C2 because the C2 domain of UVRAG outcompetes NRBF2 for PIK3R4/VPS15 binding. Our crystal structure of the NRBF2 coiled-coil (CC) domain reveals a symmetric homodimer with multiple hydrophobic pairings at the CC interface, which is in distinct contrast to the asymmetric dimer observed in the yeast ortholog Atg38. Mutations in the CC domain that rendered NRBF2 monomeric led to weakened binding to PIK3R4/VPS15 and only partial rescue of autophagy deficiency in nrbf2 knockout cells. In comparison, NRBF2 with its CC domain replaced by a dimeric Gcn4 module showed proautophagic activity comparable to wild type while NRBF2 carrying a tetrameric Gcn4 module showed further enhanced activity. We propose that the oligomeric state of NRBF2 mediated by its CC domain is critical for strengthening the moderate NRBF2-PIK3R4/VPS15 interaction mediated by its MIT domain to fully activate PtdIns3K-C1 and promote autophagy.Abbreviations: ATG: autophagy related; ATG14: autophagy related 14; BECN1: beclin 1; CC: coiled-coil; dCCD: delete CCD; dMIT: delete MIT; Gcn4: general control nonderepressible 4; ITC: isothermal titration calorimetry; IP: immunoprecipitation; KO: knockout; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MIM: MIT-interacting motif; MIT: microtubule interacting and trafficking; NMR: nuclear magnetic resonance; NRBF2: nuclear receptor binding factor 2; PtdIns3K: class III phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase; PtdIns3P: phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate; PIK3C3/VPS34: phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3; PIK3R4/VPS15: phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunit 4; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; UVRAG: UV radiation resistance associated; VPS: vacuolar protein sorting; WT: wild type.
Endothelial senescence is a critical contributor to vascular aging and age-related vasculopathies. Our previous work identified AGGF1 as a regulator of cell cycle progression and anti-inflammatory signaling. However, whether AGGF1 modulates endothelial senescence remains unclear. Here, we demonstrate that AGGF1 is downregulated in both replicative and DOX-induced senescent HUVECs. AGGF1 knockdown accelerated cellular senescence as evidenced by senescence markers, including increased SA-β-gal activity, enhanced formation of γH2AX foci, elevated IL-6 levels, and impaired proliferation, whereas AGGF1 overexpression prevented DOX- and MMC-induced senescence using adenovirus and lentivirus-mediated gene manipulation. To investigate the underlying mechanisms, we performed RNA sequencing, small-molecule drug intervention, transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and other imaging techniques in subsequent experiments. Transcriptomic and functional analyses revealed that AGGF1 transcriptionally upregulates TGFB3, which is associated with TAK1 activation and AMPK phosphorylation, ultimately inhibiting excessive mitochondrial fragmentation and suppressing cellular senescence. This signaling module reduced DRP1 expression and attenuated its activating phosphorylation at Ser616. TEM results further confirmed that AGGF1 overexpression significantly reduced mitochondrial fragmentation in cells. Additionally, this proposed association was supported by pharmacological inhibition (Takinib, Compound C) and TGFB3 knockdown, which abrogated AGGF1-mediated protection. Collectively, we identified that AGGF1 is critical for regulating a proposed TGFB3-TAK1-AMPK regulatory module, which delays endothelial senescence partially through maintenance of mitochondrial morphology. Our study provides evidence that AGGF1 plays an important role in metabolic control and cellular senescence.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cyclin E1 (CCNE1), a critical regulator of cell cycle progression, has been implicated in various cancers; however, its prognostic significance and functional role across breast cancer (BC) subtypes remain inadequately defined. This study aims to comprehensively analyze CCNE1 mRNA expression and evaluate its potential as both a prognostic biomarker and a therapeutic guide.We analyzed CCNE1 mRNA expression using large-scale BC cohorts (TCGA, METABRIC, GEO) and assessed associations with tumour grade, overall survival, and mutation status. The muTarget platform was employed to investigate associations between CCNE1 expression and key genetic alterations. Furthermore, gene set enrichment analysis was performed to identify enriched biological pathways, and functional studies were conducted using mTORC1 inhibition in TP53-mutant, RB1-deficient TNBC cells to evaluate cell viability and CCNE1 expression levels.CCNE1 expression was significantly associated with higher tumour grade, overall survival, and distinct mutation statuses. Gene set enrichment analysis revealed enrichment of proliferation-related pathways, including G2-M checkpoint, E2F targets, and mTORC1 signaling in CCNE1-high tumors. Moreover, functional studies showed that mTORC1 inhibition successfully reduced CCNE1 expression and impaired viability in TP53-mutant, RB1-deficient TNBC cells.CCNE1 overexpression characterises a clinically aggressive subset of breast cancers, particularly TNBC. Targeting mTORC1 may represent a promising therapeutic approach in CCNE1-high, TP53-mutated, and RB1-deficient tumours, supporting the clinical utility of CCNE1 in patient stratification and targeted therapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Federación de Sociedades Españolas de Oncología (FESEO).
Background: Cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2) is a key regulator of cell cycle progression and an important therapeutic target in cancer treatment. This study aims to identify novel CDK2 inhibitors using an integrated computational approach combining machine learning and structure-based methods. Methods: A computational pipeline was developed incorporating Lipinski's Rule of Five filtering, machine learning (ML)-based activity prediction, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulations (MDs). A dataset of CDK2 inhibitors with IC50 values was retrieved from ChEMBL, and molecular fingerprints were generated using PaDEL. A 5-fold stratified cross-validation approach was applied to train multiple classifiers, with the random forest model showing the best performance. Predicted active compounds from the InterBioScreen database were subjected to docking against CDK2 (PDB ID: 2FVD) using PyRx, followed by 100 ns MDS for stability analysis. Results: The random forest classifier achieved an AUC-ROC of 0.90 and an accuracy of 0.84. A total of 187 compounds were predicted as active. Among these, two compounds, STOCK4S-00019 and STOCK4S-00025, demonstrated docking scores comparable to the co-crystallized reference ligand. Molecular dynamics simulations confirmed stable binding, consistent interaction patterns, and favorable conformational behavior throughout the simulation period. Conclusions: The identified compounds, STOCK4S-00019 (hit1) and STOCK4S-00025 (hit2), show strong potential as CDK2 inhibitors. These findings support their further investigation through experimental validation and highlight the effectiveness of integrated computational approaches in anticancer drug discovery.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a leading cause of cancer mortality globally, underscoring the need to identify key molecular drivers. Cell division cycle 20 (CDC20), a regulator of cell cycle progression, is frequently dysregulated in malignancies. Its specific role and mechanisms in CRC pathogenesis are poorly understood, warranting investigation to uncover novel therapeutic targets. In this study, CDC20 mRNA expression was quantified by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), while its protein levels were assessed using Western blotting. Cell proliferation was evaluated via the 5-Ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) assay. Cell apoptosis was analyzed by flow cytometry. Migration and invasion capabilities were examined using wound-healing and Transwell invasion assays, respectively. Angiogenesis was assessed using a tube formation assay. To investigate the in vivo effects of CDC20 knockdown, a xenograft mouse model was employed to monitor tumor growth. Flow cytometry was performed to quantify CD206( +) macrophages. Mechanistic studies included chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), dual-luciferase reporter, RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP), and methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP) assays to explore GATA binding protein 6 (GATA6) and methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3) interactions with CDC20. The results showed that CDC20 expression at the mRNA and protein levels was significantly upregulated in CRC tissues in comparison with normal colorectal tissues. Moreover, its protein expression was higher in CRC cells than in human normal colonic epithelial cells. Its knockdown suppressed CRC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and tube formation, while promoting apoptosis. In addition, CDC20 depletion inhibited tumor growth and immune escape. Transcription factor GATA6 directly activated transcription of the CDC20 gene. Crucially, restoring CDC20 expression counteracted the tumor-suppressive effects of GATA6 knockdown on malignant behaviors and immune escape. METTL3 stabilized CDC20 transcripts via insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein 2 (IGF2BP2)-mediated mRNA stability. Further, overexpressing CDC20 similarly reversed the inhibitory effects of METTL3 knockdown on CRC cell malignancy and immune escape. Thus, CDC20, upregulated transcriptionally by GATA6 and post-transcriptionally by METTL3, drove CRC progression, angiogenesis, and immune evasion. Targeting CDC20 or its regulators holds significant clinical promise for developing therapies in CRC patients.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Human Cell Society.
Schwann cells (SC) are responsible for myelination in the peripheral nervous system (PNS). Myelin allows saltatory transmission of action potentials along axons and functionally relies on its unique constitution. We previously reported that Cdk7, a regulator of cell cycle progression and transcription, regulates myelin gene expression in oligodendrocytes and contributes to myelin maintenance in the central nervous system. Using mice with conditional Cdk7 knock-out in SCs, we provide evidence that Cdk7 is dispensable for myelin initiation but needed for the correct myelin thickness of larger caliber fibers in young mice, as well as for myelin elongation and rapid nerve conduction throughout age. We report that Cdk7 loss results in disturbed myelin stoichiometry, with significant dysregulation of lipid-related genes in SCs and a reduction in myelin protein zero. Finally, we demonstrate that Rxrγ, a nuclear receptor involved in lipid metabolism, is significantly downregulated in the absence of Cdk7. However, although Cdk7 regulates myelin segment length, our results indicate that this effect occurs independently of Rxrγ in myelinating dorsal root ganglion explants.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
CDKN1A (encoding p21) is a canonical regulator of cell cycle arrest and genomic stability. However, its functional spectrum within the tumor microenvironment (TME), especially at single-cell resolution, remains insufficiently defined.We performed an integrative multiomics analysis combining bulk transcriptomics, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), and functional assays across multiple cancer types. Publicly available datasets were used to assess CDKN1A expression, immune infiltration, and signaling pathways. Functional validation was conducted upon silencing or overexpression of p21 in several cancer cell lines.Pancancer analysis revealed that CDKN1A expression is frequently dysregulated across multiple tumor types and is associated with patient prognosis. ScRNA-seq further demonstrated that CDKN1A was preferentially enriched in nonmalignant epithelial cells and varies along an inferred malignant epithelial transcriptional continuum. Computational cell-cell communication analysis suggested inferred ligand-receptor associations involving extracellular matrix-related and immune-associated signaling pathways. Functionally, p21 overexpression suppressed tumor cell proliferation, induced senescence and apoptosis, and reduced migratory capacity across multiple cancer cell lines. In vitro drug-sensitivity assays further showed that p21 overexpression was associated with enhanced sensitivity to targeted therapy and chemotherapy agents, as evidenced by reduced IC50 values. In addition, p21 regulated immune-related molecules, including ICOS, TGFB1, and PDCD1, and coculture experiments revealed that macrophage polarization differentially modulates p21-mediated tumor cell inhibition, with M1 macrophages enhancing and M2 macrophages attenuating this effect.By delineating its function at single-cell resolution, we identify CDKN1A as a prognostic biomarker and a potential modulator of tumor-cell drug sensitivity that requires further clinical validation. These findings expand the conventional view of p21 from a cell cycle inhibitor to a context-dependent regulator of tumor immune interactions and therapeutic sensitivity-associated phenotypes.Copyright © 2026 Wenyang Zhang et al. Human Mutation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
To evaluate the regulatory effects of adipose stem cell (ADSC)-derived cytochalasin B-induced nanovesicles (CINVs) on the biological functions of dermal papilla cells (DPCs) and on hair follicle cycle transition, and to explore the underlying molecular mechanisms.CINVs were prepared from ADSCs. Their effects on DPC proliferation, migration, and apoptosis were assessed in vitro. A mouse depilation model was used to evaluate the ability of CINVs to promote the transition of hair follicles from telogen to anagen. Western blotting, hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining, and immunofluo-rescence analyses were performed to assess the activation of β-catenin-related signaling pathways and to elucidate the molecular mechanisms of CINV-mediated hair follicle regeneration.CCK-8 assays showed that CINVs at 40 and 60 μg/mL significantly enhanced DPC proliferation. Wound healing assays (at 40 μg/mL) confirmed that CINVs markedly promoted DPC migration. Western blotting revealed that, compared with the control group, CINV treatment significantly increased the expression of phosphorylated GSK-3β (p-GSK-3β, P<0.05) and upregulated β-catenin, the core effector of the canonical Wnt/β-catenin pathway (P<0.01). Moreover, cyclin D1 (a positive regulator of cell cycle progression) expression was elevated (P<0.05), and the levels of phosphorylated AKT (p-AKT, associated with cell survival) and phosphorylated ERK (p-ERK, associated with cell proliferation) were significantly increased (both P<0.05). The Bcl-2/Bax ratio (an anti-apoptotic index) was also increased. In vivo, CINV-treated mice displayed darkened dorsal skin and enlarged hair bulb diameters, along with elevated proportions of β-catenin- and Ki67-positive cells. These effects were significantly attenuated by co-administration of the β-catenin inhibitor MSAB.ADSC-derived CINVs effectively regulate the biological functions of DPCs and promote the transition of hair follicles from telogen to anagen, primarily through activation of the β-catenin signaling pathway.
Chlamydia trachomatis (Ct) is an obligate intracellular bacterium that can cause severe reproductive complications, including infertility and pelvic inflammatory disease. Its pathogenicity depends on intracellular maturation, which involves differentiation between infectious elementary (EB) and replicative reticulate bodies within inclusion vacuoles. Ct is known to modulate host PI3K-AKT signaling during this process; however, the molecular basis of this regulation remains unclear. To elucidate this mechanism, we screened host factors linked to the PI3K-AKT axis using a PI3K-AKT-mTOR compound library comprising 319 inhibitors, and identified the adaptor protein Gab2 (GRB2-associated binding protein 2) as a new target molecule of Ct. Gab2 protein levels decreased during the late phase of infection, and Gab2 silencing impaired intracellular replication without affecting EB formation. These findings demonstrate that Ct infection modulates the host adaptor Gab2 during intracellular development and provide new insights into host-pathogen interactions underlying chlamydial maturation.© 2026 The Societies and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
AML is an aggressive blood cancer associated with poor clinical outcomes. Chemotherapy remains the standard of treatment, but unfortunately relapse is very common, highlighting the need for alternative therapies. T cell dysfunction and exhaustion are prominent in AML and may represent a barrier to effective immunotherapy yet remains poorly studied in AML. DNA methylation is a major driver of T cell exhaustion and inhibition of de novo methylation can block exhaustion and restore T cell function in chronic viral infections and other cancers but is understudied in AML. Here, we investigated the impact of azacytidine (Aza), an FDA-approved hypomethylating agent, on T cell exhaustion in AML. Using a spontaneous AML mouse model and samples from patients with AML, we found that Aza treatment modulates T cell function. In vivo Aza-treatment of AML-bearing mice decreased tumor burden and reshaped CD8+ T cell states, with increases in frequencies of memory subsets and decreases in regulatory T cells (Tregs). Functionally, Aza treatment overcame the impaired proliferation displayed by both CD4 and CD8+ T cells in our model. DNA methylation sequencing of T cells after Aza treatment revealed hypomethylation and increased expression of stem-like precursor gene TCF7 and E2F2, a regulator of cell cycle progression and proliferation. Similar changes in phenotypes were observed in cultures of AML patient samples treated with Aza. Collectively, we show that Aza remodels epigenetic and functional states in AML and has the potential to reverse T cell exhaustion, with enhanced memory and proliferation capacity. Our work generates a mechanistic framework that provides rationale of combining hypomethylating agents with T cell-based immunotherapies in this lethal disease.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42342465 is a review article
Adeno-associated virus (AAV) gene therapy is frequently hindered by dose-limiting toxicities and preexisting neutralizing antibodies (nAbs). Here, we evaluate enhancer polymer (ePL), a cargo-less poly(L-lactic-co-glycolic acid) nanoparticle, the systemic administration of which demonstrated biocompatibility in nonhuman primates (NHPs) and generated a protransduction serum secretome that significantly enhanced AAV uptake in human iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes. Proteomic analysis of human peripheral blood mononuclear cell-derived secretomes identified a transient upregulation of AAV-entry factors, including ITGB3, alongside a downregulation of inflammatory cytokine pathways. Mechanistically, ePL-stimulated macrophages release a paracrine secretome that triggers the rapid, transient degradation of hepatic insulin receptor substrate 2 and subsequent AKT inhibition in liver and isolated primary mouse hepatocytes. Additionally, ePL attenuated the levels of NHP-derived nAbs in vitro and in a mouse-NHP xenotransfusion model without depleting total systemic immunoglobulins. Finally, ePL reduced Immunoglobulin G (IgG) secretory capacity of splenic B cells, suggesting a mechanistic link by which levels of nAbs are likely attenuated. Together, these findings highlight ePL as a promising supporting agent to improve AAV gene transfer, warranting its further optimization for clinical translation.
Radiation-induced lung injury, a well-recognized complication of thoracic radiotherapy, can progress to pulmonary fibrosis, sharing pathological features with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Although nintedanib is widely used as an antifibrotic agent, the therapeutic benefit of combination strategies remains partially understood. Therefore, in this study, we aimed to evaluate the effects of combined metformin and nintedanib treatment in a mouse model of irradiation-induced lung fibrosis. Female C57BL/6 mice were subjected to localized irradiation of 90 Gy in the left lung and treated daily with metformin, nintedanib or both drugs for 6 weeks. Lung fibrosis was assessed using gross examination, hydroxyproline quantification, histopathological scoring and quantitative image analysis. Changes in fibrosis- and injury-related proteins were examined by western blotting, including transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β), a profibrotic cytokine; SMAD family member 7 (SMAD7), an inhibitory regulator of TGF-β signaling; and surfactant protein D (SP-D), a lung epithelial injury-associated protein. Nintedanib-containing treatments improved histological lung injury in irradiated mice, including reduced collagen deposition, low pathological scores and preserved air space structure. Hydroxyproline content was also lower in the combination treatment group than in the other groups. The nintedanib-containing treatments suppressed irradiation-induced upregulation of transforming growth factor-β expression, and SMAD7 expression was selectively upregulated following combined treatment. In addition, elevated SP-D level following irradiation was partially reduced following nintedanib administration. These findings suggest that combined metformin and nintedanib treatment may provide a broader protective profile against radiation-induced pulmonary fibrosis, particularly in association with SMAD7 upregulation, although further studies are required to clarify whether the combination provides significant advantages over nintedanib monotherapy.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Japanese Radiation Research Society and Japanese Society for Radiation Oncology.
In vitro maturation (IVM) is an essential assisted reproductive technology that improves oocyte competence and supports the conservation and utilization of valuable livestock genetic resources. The Kacang goat is an indigenous Indonesian breed with important economic and genetic significance. Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) has been reported to regulate oocyte maturation through multiple intracellular signaling pathways; however, its molecular effects on maturation-associated genes in Kacang goat oocytes remain poorly characterized. This study evaluated the influence of IGF-1 supplementation during IVM on the expression of Harvey rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (HRas), Cell division cycle 25 phosphatase (Cdc25), and insulin receptor substrate-2 (IRS-2), which are associated with meiotic progression and metabolic signaling.Cumulus-oocyte complexes were collected from Kacang goat ovaries and cultured under IVM conditions either without supplementation (control) or with 100 ng/mL IGF-1. Relative expression of HRas and Cdc25 was quantified using quantitative polymerase chain reaction, while IRS-2 protein expression was assessed by immunocytochemistry. Statistical comparisons between groups were performed using appropriate parametric or non-parametric tests, and correlations among molecular markers were evaluated using Spearman's rank correlation analysis.IGF-1 supplementation significantly increased the expression of both HRas and Cdc25 compared with the control group (p < 0.05). The relative expression of HRas increased approximately 2.03-fold, whereas Cdc25 expression increased 1.62-fold following IGF-1 treatment. Immunocytochemical analysis demonstrated significantly greater IRS-2 protein expression in IGF-1-treated oocytes than in controls (p < 0.05). Furthermore, strong positive correlations were observed among HRas, Cdc25, and IRS-2 expression levels, with the strongest association detected between HRas and Cdc25 (r = 0.85). These findings indicate coordinated activation of signaling pathways involved in meiotic regulation and cellular metabolism during oocyte maturation.Supplementation of IVM medium with 100 ng/mL IGF-1 enhanced the expression of HRas, Cdc25, and IRS-2 in Kacang goat oocytes, suggesting activation of molecular pathways associated with meiotic resumption and metabolic regulation. These findings provide mechanistic insights into IGF-1-mediated signaling during oocyte maturation and may help optimize IVM systems for indigenous goat breeds. This improvement in reproductive biotechnology is also relevant to Sustainable Development Goal 2 (Zero Hunger), particularly in supporting sustainable livestock production, conservation of indigenous goat genetic resources, and food security. Nevertheless, further studies evaluating nuclear maturation, fertilization, and embryo developmental competence are required to confirm the functional significance of these molecular responses.Copyright: © Widjiati, et al.
Influenza is a highly contagious virus with most individuals showing recovery within a week after symptom onset. However, children, the elderly, and those with chronic health conditions are at high risk of developing serious complications. Extensive immune cell infiltration of the lung and massive production of pro-inflammatory cytokines can result in lung tissue damage and disruption, resulting in hypoxia and death. During the 2024-2025 influenza season in the USA, influenza caused an estimated 27,000-130,000 deaths. Our previous studies have shown that agents known to drive polarization of macrophages into the M2a phenotype mitigated inflammatory responses to influenza H1N1 A/PR/8/34 (PR8). Since IRS2 dampens the IL-4-induced differentiation to the M2a subtype, we sought to determine the impact of IRS2 on PR8 infection. Contrary to expectations, IRS2-/- mice exhibited enhanced susceptibility to PR8 when compared to IRS2+/+ mice, which was associated with a significant drop in blood oxygen saturation. Additionally, PR8 infection induced significantly greater inflammation in the lungs of IRS2-/- mice than IRS2+/+ mice. Conversely, viral replication was not significantly different. Significantly increased levels of the inflammatory mediator HMGB1 and airway epithelial cell denuding were observed in the lungs of IRS2-/- mice, with a concomitant decrease in M2a gene expression. Mice with myeloid-specific knockout of IRS2 showed no enhanced sensitivity to PR8, supporting the hypothesis that the major impact of IRS2-deficiency on host response to PR8 infection is not myeloid cell-intrinsic. Overall, these results suggest that in the absence of IRS2, airway epithelial cells are especially sensitive to influenza-induced damage through dysregulated inflammation, resulting in increased susceptibility during infection.
Veratramine is a natural steroidal alkaloid derived from plants of the genus Veratrum that exhibits anti-inflammatory potential. However, its pharmacological mechanisms and direct molecular targets in asthmatic airway remodelling remain unclear, particularly regarding its role in regulating metabolism-epigenetic crosstalk within the airway microenvironment.This study aimed to determine whether Veratramine downregulates pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) to suppress lactate accumulation, thereby inhibiting cAMP response element-binding protein 1 (CREB1) lactylation, restoring SMAD family member 7 (SMAD7) expression, and ultimately reversing transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β)-driven airway remodelling.A house dust mite (HDM)-induced murine asthma model was established to assess Veratramine efficacy. Molecular docking, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, and cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA) confirmed its interaction with PKM2. Mass spectrometry, CUT&Tag sequencing, site-directed mutagenesis (K122R/Q), and adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated in vivo gene delivery were used to delineate the signalling axis.Veratramine dose-dependently attenuated HDM-induced airway inflammation, goblet cell metaplasia, and subepithelial collagen deposition. It was shown to bind to and downregulate PKM2, thereby reducing pulmonary lactate accumulation. Mechanistically, HDM induced CREB1 lactylation at K122, limiting its conformational flexibility and promoting repression of the antifibrotic gene SMAD7, leading to TGF-β pathway activation and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Inhibition of K122 lactylation or restoration of SMAD7 effectively reversed airway remodelling.This study identifies a novel "PKM2-lactate-CREB1 lactylation-SMAD7" axis driving airway remodelling in asthma. Veratramine acts as a PKM2 modulator, restoring SMAD7-mediated negative feedback via metabolic reprogramming, and represents a promising lead for anti-remodelling therapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short RNA molecules that bind to target mRNAs, resulting in translational repression and gene silencing. Overexpression of microRNA-21 (miR-21) is associated with various human diseases, including autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) and pulmonary fibrosis. In this study, a previously described heterobifunctional molecule, TGP-21-RiboTAC, that degrades the miR-21 precursor (pre-miR-21) in triple-negative breast cancer cells was investigated in polycystic kidney cell lines and a lung fibroblast cell line. In the former, TGP-21-RiboTAC degraded pre-miR-21 and derepressed miR-21's downstream targets, programmed cell death 4 (PDCD4) and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα), known drivers of ADPKD. The heterobifunctional molecule also inhibited cyst growth and rescued the metabolic alterations that occur in ADPKD. In the lung fibroblast cell line, MRC-5, TGP-21-RiboTAC also reduced pre- and mature miR-21 levels, rescued transforming growth factor β (TGF-β)-induced repression of SMAD family member 7 (SMAD7), and inhibited cell invasion. Collectively, these studies demonstrate the potential of targeted RNA degradation as therapeutic agents that retard the development of organ fibrosis.
Activating mutations in PI3K are one of the most frequent mutations in breast cancer and are associated with worse patient outcomes in many breast cancer subtypes. Despite intense interest, cancer treatments that target the PI3K pathway have been only modestly effective due to intrinsic and acquired resistance mechanisms which reactivate PI3K signaling. Here, we characterize a feedback mechanism by which PI3K pathway inhibitors increase insulin receptor substrate 2 (IRS2) abundance and demonstrate the role of IRS2 in promoting resistance to these drugs. In PIK3CA mutant breast tumors and cell lines, there is a significant reduction in IRS2 mRNA and protein abundance which is reversed by PI3K pathway inhibition and mediated by the transcription factor FOXO3. PIK3CA mutations do not alter IRS1 expression. IRS2 confers resistance to PI3K pathway inhibition by sustaining PI3K signaling in PIK3CA mutant, but not wild-type breast cancer cells. Increased IRS2 abundance also correlates with PI3K pathway inhibitor resistance across PI3K mutant cancer cell lines from a variety of tissues. The clinical relevance of these findings is highlighted by the frequency of PI3K mutations in cancer and the identification of a new target to address the challenges associated with prior efforts to block the reactivation of PI3K signaling during PI3K inhibition.
Objective: To longitudinally investigate the effect of non-surgical periodontal therapy (NSPT) on the transcriptional and translational levels of Superoxide Dismutase (SOD) and Insulin Receptor Substrate type 2 (IRS2) in individuals with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM) and Periodontitis (P). Methods: This clinical study was registered at the Brazilian Clinical Trials Registry (ReBEC-RBR-5m3yxmb). Saliva, peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), and gingival biopsies were collected from 156 individuals, distributed into five groups, each with at least 30 participants: T2DM_poorly_controlled+P, T2DM_well_controlled+P, T2DM_without_P, Periodontitis, and Control. Systemic levels of messenger RNA (mRNA) of Superoxide Dismutase 1 (SOD1) and IRS2 were measured using real-time polymerase chain reaction at baseline, 90, and 180 days after NSPT. SOD enzymatic activity in Saliva and IRS-2 immunohistochemistry in gingival biopsies were also assessed. Results: Higher SOD1 mRNA levels were observed in Control individuals at baseline. In contrast, higher IRS2 mRNA levels were detected in individuals with Periodontitis at baseline, followed by a significant reduction over time. A significant positive longitudinal correlation was identified between IRS2 and SOD1 gene expression in the groups without T2DM, indicating potential functional interaction between the molecules. Salivary SOD enzymatic activity was lower in individuals from the T2DM_poorly_Controlled+P and T2DM_well_Controlled+P groups. SOD concentration (U/g) normalized to the total protein content was higher in the saliva of individuals with Periodontitis. T2DM+P and Periodontitis groups showed extensive inflammatory infiltrate in the gingival biopsies, with predominant IRS-2 immunopositive cells in the T2DM+P groups, independently of the metabolic control. Conclusions: This study shows that non-surgical periodontal therapy (NSPT) is followed by longitudinal changes in IRS2 and SOD1 expression at the mRNA and protein levels in individuals with T2DM+P (poorly/well controlled) and periodontitis, reinforcing the clinical relevance of periodontal treatment in the systemic context of T2DM.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) impacts ca. 30% of the global population and is very heterogeneous, making it a challenge to develop therapeutics. The heterogeneity arises from genetics, co-morbidities, the microbiome, and lifestyle. To help address this challenge, we have refined the human vascularized liver acinus microphysiological system (vLAMPS), which provides an all-human platform for drug development, satisfying recently updated federal requirements for the use of New Approach Methodologies (NAMs). By introducing clinically relevant media perturbations and employing several diverse and reproducible in situ and systemic measurements, we show that the vLAMPS can recapitulate key structural and functional aspects of normal physiology, acinus zonation, and all stages of MASLD progression including stellate cell activation and fibrosis. Importantly, in this study we also demonstrate that several hallmarks of lipid-induced hepatic insulin resistance paralleled MASLD progression. These included reduction of insulin receptor substrate 2 (IRS2) protein, compromised insulin receptor mediated insulin clearance, enhanced pericentral lipid accumulation, increased Very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) secretion, and enhanced hepatic glucose output mediated by increased periportal nuclear translocation of Forkhead box protein O1 (FOXO1). These results suggest that the mechanisms underlying MASLD progression in vLAMPS are clinically relevant and support the tenable hypothesis that the hepatic insulin resistant state plays both a causal and consequential role in a vicious cycle driving disease progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aims to investigate the effect and mechanism of baicalein in improving alveolar epithelial cell senescence. A cellular model of alveolar epithelial cell senescence induced by transforming growth factor-β1(TGF-β1) was established. Cells were randomly divided into control group, model group, baicalein group, small interfering RNA(siRNA) targeting Smad family member 2(Smad2) group, siRNA targeting Smad3 group, and baicalein + Smad3 plasmid group. Western blot was employed to detect the protein expression level of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1(PAI-1), a marker protein of alveolar epithelial cell senescence. Senescence-associated β-galactosidase(SA-β-gal) staining was used to measure the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells. The results show that baicalein can significantly inhibit the protein expression of PAI-1 in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells and markedly reduce the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. Baicalein can also significantly decrease the phosphorylation levels of Smad2 protein and Smad3 protein in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. Knockdown of Smad2 does not affect the protein expression level of PAI-1 in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells, nor does it alter the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. In contrast, knockdown of Smad3 can significantly downregulate the protein expression level of PAI-1 and reduce the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. Overexpression of Smad3 can notably reverse the inhibitory effects of baicalein on PAI-1 protein expression and the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. In conclusion, baicalein improves alveolar epithelial cell senescence by downregulating the TGF-β1/Smad3 signaling, but this effect might be independent of Smad2 signaling.
Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT) is an autosomal‑dominant vascular disease characterized by telangiectasias and visceral arteriovenous malformations (AVMs), commonly in the lungs, liver, and brain. HHT is linked to mutations in the genes Activin A Receptor Like Type 1 (ACVRL1), Endoglin (ENG), and SMAD Family Member 4 (SMAD4). The ACVRL1 gene encodes the receptor ACVRL1 (Activin A Receptor Like Type 1), also known as ALK1 (Activin Receptor-Like Kinase 1), and belongs to the Transforming Growth Factor-Beta (TGFβ) Superfamily of receptors. Approximately 20% of patients with ACVRL1-associated HHT develop pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). [1] In pediatric PAH cohorts, ACVRL1 mutations account for nearly 10% of identified genetic variants. [2] The reduced penetrance of PAH among ACVRL1 mutation carriers suggests that additional modifiers account for PAH development. [3]. Given the relevance of the bone‑morphogenetic‑protein (BMP) pathway to the pathogenesis of PAH, and the intimate relationship of TGFβ superfamily signaling partners including ACVRL1 and BMPR2, genes which modify BMP-TGFβ signaling balance may contribute to PAH development in children with ACVRL1‑positive HHT. One such gene is SMAD9 (Receptor Regulated SMAD 9); the protein product of SMAD 9 (SMAD8) which mediates downstream TGFβ signaling. Herein, we report what we believe to be the youngest reported case of PAH in ACVRL1‑mediated HHT, in a patient who co‑harbors a SMAD9 mutation.© 2026 The Author(s). Pulmonary Circulation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Pulmonary Vascular Research Institute.
Background and Objectives: The aim of this study is to evaluate the effects of oridonin on a cisplatin-induced ovarian injury rat model. Materials and Methods: Thirty female rats were divided into three groups. Group 1: control; group 2: cisplatin; group 3: cisplatin plus oridonin group. In groups 2 and 3, the rats were injected with 2.5 mg/kg (twice weekly) cisplatin intraperitoneally (i.p.) for 4 weeks. In Group 3, rats received oridonin (10 mg/kg/day, i.p.). At the end of the study, the ovaries were removed in all groups. Histopathologic analysis and follicle counting were performed. Plasma anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH), malondialdehyde (MDA), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) levels were measured, while ovarian transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1), SMAD family member 3 (SMAD3), and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1 (TIMP-1) levels were evaluated. Results: Oridonin alleviated cisplatin-induced histopathological changes in the ovarian tissue. The numbers of primordial, primary, secondary, and tertiary follicles were significantly decreased, while ovarian fibrosis was significantly increased in Group 2 compared with Group 1 (p < 0.05). Co-treatment with oridonin statistically significantly increased follicle counts at all developmental stages and markedly reduced ovarian fibrosis in group 2 compared with group 3. Compared with Group 1, AMH decreased, whereas MDA, TNF-α, TGF-β1, SMAD3, and TIMP-1 increased in Group 2 (p < 0.001); these alterations were markedly attenuated in Group 3. Conclusions: These findings suggest that oridonin may exert protective effects against cisplatin-induced ovarian injury.
Astrocyte reactivity critically shapes neuroinflammatory outcomes after ischemic stroke, yet the upstream regulators governing astrocyte state transitions remain incompletely defined. Here, we identify the immunoproteasome subunit low molecular weight protein 2 (LMP2) as an important modulator of astrocyte functional remodeling following cerebral ischemia/reperfusion (I/R). Using global and astrocyte-specific knockout models, we demonstrate that LMP2 deficiency markedly reduces infarct volume, attenuates neuroinflammation, and improves neurological and cognitive outcomes. Mechanistically, LMP2 coordinately modulates inflammatory and reparative signaling networks by promoting nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB)-dependent inflammatory activation while constraining transforming growth factor-β1(TGF-β1)/SMAD family member 3 (Smad3)-associated reparative responses, thereby biasing astrocyte reactive states toward more inflammatory and maladaptive programs along the inflammatory-reparative continuum. Conversely, LMP2 inhibition promoted more adaptive and neuroprotective astrocyte-associated programs, enhanced neurotrophic support, and limited apoptosis under ischemic stress. Integrative transcriptomic and single-cell analyses further revealed that astrocyte responses exist along a continuum of functional states, with LMP2 influencing the distribution of astrocyte states rather than acting as a binary switch. Collectively, these findings uncover a previously unrecognized immunoproteasome-astrocyte regulatory axis involved in neuroinflammatory remodeling and highlight LMP2 as a promising target for precision modulation of post-ischemic brain injury.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Platinum resistance remains a major cause of treatment failure in ovarian cancer (OC). Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), key components of the tumor microenvironment, play critical roles in OC progression. Inhibin subunit beta A (INHBA) and its putative receptor endoglin (ENG) have been linked to OC chemoresistance, but their functional interaction in mediating cisplatin resistance remains unclear.Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was performed to characterize CAF subsets and assess INHBA and ENG expression in OC tissues. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) and immunofluorescence (IF) staining was conducted on tissue microarrays to evaluate protein expression and co-localization. Primary CAFs and normal fibroblasts (NFs) were isolated. INHBA was knocked out in CAFs via CRISPR/Cas9, and ENG was stably knocked down in cisplatin-resistant OC cells by lentiviral shRNA. The INHBA-ENG axis was investigated through in vitro assays, co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), molecular docking, and in vivo xenograft models.scRNA-seq resolved four CAF subsets, with myoCAF1 being dominant in platinum-resistant tumors. INHBA was specifically restricted to myoCAF1, while ENG was enriched in epithelial cells, and their mRNA levels showed a strong positive correlation. Consistently, IHC confirmed significant upregulation of INHBA/ENG in OC, especially in platinum-resistant cases. CAF-derived INHBA promoted OC cell proliferation, invasion, EMT, and cisplatin resistance. Molecular docking suggested a high-affinity INHBA-ENG interaction, which was confirmed by Co-IP in OC-CAF co-cultures. ENG knockdown reversed cisplatin resistance, an effect abrogated by recombinant INHBA. In vivo, CAF-derived INHBA promoted tumor growth and cisplatin resistance in an ENG-dependent manner.MyoCAFs-derived INHBA binds to ENG on OC cells, inhibits apoptosis, induces EMT, and promotes cisplatin resistance. The INHBA-ENG axis represents a promising therapeutic target for overcoming platinum resistance in OC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Despite significant advances in identifying susceptibility genes for bronchial asthma (BA), the immunogenetic and other molecular mechanisms underlying disease risk and progression remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to investigate the association between two common single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), rs17293632 and rs2033784, located within the SMAD3 (SMAD family member 3) gene-previously identified in genome-wide association studies-and susceptibility to atopic asthma and allergen sensitivity in Russian children.This study included DNA samples from 999 unrelated children from the Kursk region, comprising 526 patients with BA (316 boys and 210 girls) and 473 healthy children. SNP genotyping was performed using the MassARRAY-4 system.Both SNPs were associated with an increased risk of BA under the additive genetic model (p ≤ 0.001). In the sex-stratified analysis, the rs17293632 (odds ratio (OR) = 1.79, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.15-2.77; p = 9.0 × 10-4) and rs2033784 (OR = 1.80, 95% CI: 1.28-2.52; p = 6.0 × 10-4) variants were exclusively associated with asthma risk among girls, whereas no significant associations were observed in boys. The rs17293632T-rs2033784G haplotype was associated with an increased risk of asthma in girls (OR = 2.01, 95% CI: 1.38-2.92, p = 3.0 × 10-4). Notably, SMAD3 gene polymorphisms were associated with an increased risk of asthma exclusively among children living in urban environments (p ≤ 0.0001). Polymorphisms in the SMAD3 gene have also been linked to specific allergies, including those to horsehair, chicken eggs, beef, wheat, oatmeal, barley, and foxtail.The present study of Russian children confirmed that the rs17293632 and rs2033784 polymorphisms of the SMAD3 gene are significant genetic markers associated with BA and allergies. However, an association between these SMAD3 variants and asthma was observed only among girls, marking the first time this association has been reported. Further research is necessary to determine whether the SMAD3 gene constitutes a viable therapeutic target for treating asthma and allergic diseases.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
In this study, we explored the therapeutic effects and mechanisms of baicalin (BA) in a dibutyltin dichloride (DBTC)-induced chronic pancreatitis (CP) rat model using metabolomics and network pharmacology. The results showed that BA significantly reduced inflammatory cell infiltration and fibrosis in pancreatic tissues, lowered serum levels of interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), amylase (AMS), and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and thereby decreased expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) and fibronectin (FN) in pancreatic tissues. Metabolomic analyses revealed that BA influences multiple metabolic pathways, including glycerophospholipid and arachidonic acid metabolism, in serum and urine. Network pharmacology identified key targets, such as phospholipase A2 group IVA (PLA2G4A) and transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4), which are primarily involved in IL-17 signaling, as well as other pathways beyond inflammation. Further integrated analysis demonstrated that BA inhibits pancreatic stellate cell activation and reduces pancreatic fibrosis by regulating metabolites, such as arachidonic acid, that act on the PLA2G4A/TRPV4 and transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1)/SMAD family member 3 (SMAD3) pathways. Molecular docking studies confirmed that BA binds strongly to these targets. In summary, BA exerts anti-inflammatory and antifibrotic effects through multiple targets and pathways, thereby alleviating the pathological progression of CP.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
This study aimed to investigate the role of protein tyrosine kinase-like 7 (PTK7) in the progression of fibrosis of renal tubular epithelial cells and to elucidate its underlying molecular mechanisms, thereby evaluating the potential of PTK7 as a therapeutic target for renal fibrosis. Immunohistochemistry, Western blotting, and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) were performed to examine PTK7 expression in a mouse model of renal fibrosis. Public single-cell transcriptomic datasets were employed to analyze the expression distribution of PTK7 among different renal cell types. A stable PTK7-knockout transformed C3H mouse kidney-1 (TCMK-1) cell line was generated via clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats/CRISPR-associated protein 9 (CRISPR/Cas9), and following transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) stimulation, cellular morphological changes were observed. The expression levels of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-related proteins (E-cadherin and vimentin) and fibrosis-related proteins (α-SMA, fibronectin, and collagen I) were assessed. Cell proliferative activity and migratory capacity were evaluated by cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) and wound healing assays, respectively, and the phosphorylation levels of Smad family member 2 (Smad2)/Smad family member 3 (Smad3) were analyzed to explore the potential mechanisms. PTK7 expression was significantly upregulated in the kidney tissue of the mouse model and was highly expressed in renal tubular epithelial cells. PTK7 knockout suppressed TGF-β1-induced EMT progression and the expression of fibrosis-related proteins (P0.001), and it attenuated the migratory ability of renal tubular epithelial cells under TGF-β1 stimulation. From a mechanism perspective, PTK7 deficiency effectively inhibited TGF-β1-triggered activation of Smad2/Smad3 phosphorylation. PTK7 promotes the fibrosis of renal tubular epithelial cells through activation of the TGF-β1/Smad signaling pathway, and PTK7 knockout can effectively alleviate fibrosis-related phenotypes at the cellular level. This study provides experimental evidence for further exploration of PTK7 as a potential therapeutic target against renal fibrosis.
To investigate fibrosis-related gene expression profiles in benign ureteral strictures and their association with restenosis after ureteroplasty and to develop a predictive risk score model.A total of 100 patients with benign strictures who underwent ureteroplasty were included.Stenotic tissues were collected intraoperatively, and the expression levels of 15 fibrosis-related genes were determined by quantitative real-time PCR. According to whether restenosis occurred at 12 months postoperatively, the patients were assigned to stenotic group (n = 39) and non-stenotic group (n = 61). Independent predictors were identified using logistic regression, a risk score model was constructed and model performance was assessed using receiver operating characteristic curve, calibration curves and decision curve analysis (DCA). The restenosis-free rates of the risk groups were compared through Kaplan-Meier survival analysis, and internal validation was performed through Bootstrap resampling.High expression levels of type I collagen α1 chain (COL1A1), transforming growth factor-β1 (TGFB1), Snail family member 1 (SNAI1), SMAD family member 3 (SMAD3) and thrombospondin 2 (THBS2) genes were identified as independent risk factors for postoperative restenosis (all p < 0.05). Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed that the restenosis-free rate at 12 months was significantly lower in the high-risk group than in the low-risk group (51.02% vs. 70.59%, log-rank p = 0.007). The area under the curve (AUC) of the risk scoring model was 0.854 [95% confidence interval (CI): 0.772-0.973], with a sensitivity of 87.12% and specificity of 84.55%. Bootstrap internal validation yielded a corrected AUC of 0.848 (95% CI: 0.812-0.891), confirming the model's stability. The calibration curve demonstrated good agreement between predicted probabilities and observed outcomes (Hosmer-Lemeshow test, p > 0.05). DCA showed that the model provided a net clinical benefit across a wide range of threshold probabilities. Further analysis showed that the expression levels of the above five genes were significantly positively correlated with the pathological fibrosis grade of stenotic tissues (all p < 0.001).The high expression levels of COL1A1, TGFB1, SNAI1, SMAD3 and THBS2 in benign ureteral strictures is closely related to the degree of tissue fibrosis and postoperative restenosis. The risk scoring model based on these genes showed good predictive performance and can thus serve as useful tool for clinical individualised treatment and prognostic assessment.© 2026 The Author(s).
Metastasis is a major driver of treatment failure and mortality for gastric cancer, and the detailed cellular and molecular patterns driving tumor cells from the primary tumor to metastatic lesions remain poorly characterized.We analyzed single-cell RNA sequencing data from 131 samples, including 27 normal gastric tissue (NC), 48 primary gastric tumors (PT), and 56 metastatic lesions (lymph node metastasis, LNM [sample number = 2]; liver metastasis, LM [sample number = 9]; ovary metastasis, OM [sample number = 3]; peritoneum metastasis, PM [sample number = 42]), and finally generated a high-resolution cellular atlas.Using all cells, we identified 11 major cell types and characterized remodeling of T cell or natural killer cell, myeloid, and epithelial cells across primary and metastatic lesions. The depletion of cytotoxic CD8.Teff and NK cells in LNM, concomitant with enrichment of exhausted CD4.Tex cells, were observed. CD4.Treg cells were found enriched in PT but reduced in metastatic lesions. Comparison of gene expression between primary and metastasis for epithelial cells identified NAP1L1 as a consistently upregulated gene across all four distinct metastatic sites (LNM, LM, OM, and PM). In silico knockout of NAP1L1 in epithelial cells indicated the perturbation of focal adhesion and cell-substrate junction pathways and high expression of prometastatic genes, including Jun proto-oncogene, AP-1 transcription factor subunit, JunB proto-oncogene, AP-1 transcription factor subunit, and activating transcription factor 3.Our study deciphered the immune and epithelial cell dynamics of metastasis and identified NAP1L1 as a novel regulator of epithelial cell reprogramming and metastatic progression.© 2026 The Author(s). Chronic Diseases and Translational Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd on behalf of Chinese Medical Association.
Despite multiple therapeutic strategies, a significant proportion of psoriatic patients fail to achieve complete/sustained disease clearance, highlighting the need for effective adjuvant or alternative therapy. Melittin, the main component in bee venom, exhibits valuable anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory properties in various diseases; meanwhile, its effect on psoriasis has not been explored yet. Our study aims to investigate the anti-psoriatic effect of melittin with possible involvement of phosphoinositide 3-kinase/protein kinase B (PI3K/Akt) and the autophagy pathways. Mice were divided into 5 groups: Control group, Imiquimod (IMQ) group, and groups (3-5) received daily intraperitoneal injections of methotrexate (MTX, 1 mg/kg), melittin (40 mg/kg), or melittin (80 mg/kg), respectively. All groups except the control received topical IMQ for seven days. Melittin 80 demonstrated superior efficacy, significantly reducing the clinical Psoriasis Area and Severity Index score by 60% and epidermal thickening by 58.55%. Mel 80 decreased malondialdehyde by 62.32%, increased glutathione by 1.44-fold, and reduced nuclear factor-kappa B p65, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin (IL)-1 beta, IL-6, IL-23, and IL-17 levels by 72.10%, 83.70%, 61.54%, and 58.09%, 64.55%, and 55.19%, indicating suppression of the pathogenic IL-23/IL-17 axis. Furthermore, Melittin 80 inhibited PI3K/Akt pathway, decreasing p-Akt and PI3K by 50.88% and 57.30%, leading to downregulation of phosphorylated mammalian target of rapamycin (p-mTOR) by 58.53% and a 3.01-fold increase in Beclin-1, indicating restored autophagy. Epidermal proliferation was reduced, with a 58.80% reduction in Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor and 46.51% reduction in Ki67 expression. These results suggest that melittin may represent a promising antioxidant and anti-inflammatory agent for psoriasis, acting through PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway inhibition and autophagy restoration.© 2026. The Author(s).
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by motor deficits and debilitating non-motor symptoms (NMS), including depression, anxiety, and cognitive impairment. While current therapies alleviate motor dysfunction, NMS management remains a critical unmet need. Pramipexole (PPX), a non-ergoline dopamine agonist with high selectivity for D2/D3 receptors (particularly D3), demonstrates potential for multi-target modulation beyond motor improvement. To systematically evaluate the efficacy of PPX against NMS and elucidate its novel mechanism involving autophagy regulation, a dual neurotoxin-induced PD mouse model (MPTP and DSP-4; MPTP:1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine; DSP-4: N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine) recapitulating both motor and NMS was employed. PPX significantly improved NMS, reducing anxiety/depressive -like behavior and cognitive decline, alongside restoring motor function. Moreover, PPX administration promoted survival of dopaminergic and noradrenergic neurons and preserved synaptic integrity in a double lesion model of PD. In our molecular detection, PPX treatment was accompanied by enhanced key components of autophagy (Beclin-1/P62) and rectified deficient mitophagy (BNIP3L/PINK1/Parkin). This study identifies PPX as a dual-action therapeutic that concurrently alleviates motor/NMS in PD model mice, and this therapeutic effect may be associated with altered expression of autophagy-related proteins.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Protein S-palmitoylation is a dynamic and reversible post-translational modification (PTM) that governs diverse cellular processes, yet its study remains constrained by the indirect and ensemble-averaging nature of classical biochemical assays. Here, we report a nanopore-based platform, PALM-Scan (palmitoylation analysis via label-free monitoring and signature capture on nanopore) that directly transduces physicochemical signatures of S-palmitoylated peptides into digital electrical signals. Using an engineered Mycobacterium smegmatis porin A (M2-MspA) nanopore, PALM-Scan enables sequence-independent identification of S-palmitoylation and simultaneously differentiates S-palmitoylation from other cysteine-directed PTMs, including S-nitrosylation and S-glutathionylation, without probes or enrichment. We further demonstrate its translational potential by successfully detecting and distinguishing S-palmitoylated subpopulations of disease-relevant biomarkers, including mouse beclin-1 (BECN1)- and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-derived peptides, in complex mixtures with minimal sample input. In summary, by integrating label-free operation, single-molecule resolution, and multiplex discrimination, PALM-Scan provides a transformative tool for interrogating S-palmitoylation dynamics in both basic research and biomedical applications.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Mammalian embryonic diapause is a reversible state of pre-implantation dormancy characterized by metabolic rewiring toward lipid usage as energy source. Whether active signaling sustains this dormant state remained unclear. Here, we show that the transforming growth factor- β (TGF-β) pathway, previously thought to only be required post-implantation, is essential for diapause. Nodal signaling is activated and its downstream effector SMAD family member 2 (Smad2) is required during diapause in vivo. Using ex vivo blastocyst and embryonic stem cells models of diapause, we show that Smad2 represses peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (Pparg), a master regulator of lipid storage. Loss of Smad2-mediated Pparg repression leads to lipid accumulation and is incompatible with pausing. Our findings establish a Nodal-Smad2-Pparg axis that is pivotal for sustaining the transcriptional and metabolic programs of embryonic diapause. This axis may be redeployed in other contexts, including cancer dormancy and metabolic disorders.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42548587 is a review article
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder characterized by dopaminergic neuronal death of unclear etiology. While levodopa remains the gold standard for managing PD motor symptoms, it lacks disease-modifying efficacy, necessitating new neuroprotective therapies. Mitochondrial dysfunction and impaired autophagy are key hallmarks of PD. This study utilized 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+)-treated SH-SY5Y cells to investigate the neuroprotective mechanisms of catalpol, an iridoid glycoside derived from Rehmannia glutinosa. We found that catalpol attenuated MPP+-induced neurotoxicity, mitochondrial membrane depolarization, and ATP depletion. This protection was critically dependent on autophagy; it was enhanced by the activator rapamycin but abolished by the inhibitor wortmannin and the autophagosome-lysosome fusion inhibitor bafilomycin A1. Catalpol activated autophagy by increasing autophagosome formation, elevating Beclin 1 and LC3-II levels, and promoting p62 degradation. Furthermore, catalpol reversed MPP+-induced mitophagy suppression and restored the regulatory protein PINK1 and DJ-1 expression. Given that Akt/BDNF/Bcl-2 and TrkB/BDNF pathways promote neuronal survival, we investigated their involvement. We found that the TrkB agonist 7,8-DHF mimicked catalpol's neuroprotection against MPP+-induced neurotoxicity, whereas the pan-Trk inhibitor GNF-5837 abolished it. Western blotting demonstrated that catalpol reversed MPP+-mediated suppression of TrkB and Akt phosphorylation, as well as BDNF and Bcl-2 expression. Molecular docking indicated that catalpol may interact with the TrkB ligand-binding domain as 7,8-DHF and shares key binding residues. Our findings suggest that catalpol exerts neuroprotection via a dual mechanism: preserving mitochondrial function through PINK1/DJ-1-mediated mitophagy and activating the TrkB/Akt/BDNF/Bcl-2 survival pathway, potentially by interacting with the TrkB receptor, highlighting its therapeutic potential for PD.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Pentraxin 3 (PTX3) is an inflammatory mediator involved in tumorigenesis; however, its role in tumor immune evasion remains elusive. Herein, we demonstrate that PTX3 promotes immune evasion in breast cancer by upregulating PD-L1.RT-qPCR and Western blot were performed to assess PD-L1 expression in human and murine breast cancer cells. Cell surface PD-L1 was assayed by flow cytometry. Small interfering RNA and CRISPR-Cas9 were used to inhibit PTX3 expression. Co-culture experiments were conducted to evaluate the suppressive effects of tumor cells on CD8 + T cell activation. An immunocompetent BALB/c mouse allograft model was utilized, and tumor-infiltrating CD8 + T cells were analyzed by flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry.PTX3 enhanced PD-L1 protein levels through the inhibition of autophagy. PTX3 increased the expression of the E3 ligase RNF216 and caused Beclin-1 degradation, which suppressed autophagy, thereby preventing autophagy-mediated PD-L1 degradation. Co-culture experiments demonstrate that PTX3-overexpressing breast cancer cells suppressed CD8 + T cell function, as evidenced by reduced production of IFN-γ and Granzyme B, whereas PTX3-depleted cells had the opposite effects. In vivo allograft studies revealed that depletion of PTX3 reduced PD-L1 expression, enhanced CD8 + T cell infiltration, and inhibited tumor growth in immunocompetent mice.PTX3 promotes PD-L1 expression and immune evasion in breast cancer. Therefore, targeting PTX3 may represent a potential therapeutic strategy to counteract this immune escape.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Japanese Breast Cancer Society.
Autophagy has been implicated in tissue remodeling, but its role in scleral remodeling during myopia development and in atropine-mediated myopia control remains unclear. We investigated this issue using complementary in vitro and in vivo models. Human scleral fibroblasts (HSFs) were exposed to hypoxia and treated with rapamycin (RAPA) or 3-methyladenine (3-MA). Beclin-1 knockdown and bafilomycin A1 (BafA1)-based LC3B II accumulation assays were used to assess the functional contribution of autophagy and autophagic flux. In vivo, form-deprivation myopia (FDM) was induced in guinea pigs, followed by atropine, RAPA, or 3-MA intervention. Refractive error, axial length, scleral histology, extracellular matrix remodeling, autophagy-related markers, and AMPK/mTOR/P70S6K signaling were evaluated. Hypoxia induced a remodeling phenotype in HSFs, characterized by decreased COL1A1 and increased MMP2/α-SMA, accompanied by increased autophagy. 3-MA attenuated these changes, whereas RAPA aggravated them. Beclin-1 knockdown similarly suppressed hypoxia and RAPA-associated remodeling changes and reduced autophagic flux, supporting a functional role of autophagy in hypoxia-induced scleral fibroblast remodeling. In FDM guinea pigs, scleral tissue showed increased HIF-1α expression, autophagy activation, and extracellular matrix remodeling. Both 0.05% and 1% atropine slowed myopia progression and axial elongation, improved scleral structural abnormalities, and suppressed autophagy-related changes, with no significant difference between the two concentrations. Subconjunctival RAPA exacerbated, whereas 3-MA alleviated, myopia progression and scleral remodeling. These findings suggest that excessive scleral autophagy links hypoxic stress to scleral extracellular matrix remodeling in experimental myopia. This process may also contribute to the anti-myopic action of atropine.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
To investigate whether the anti-atherosclerotic(AS) effect of Huanglian Jiedu Decoction(HLJDD) is associated with activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 5(ERK5) and the consequent improvement of microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3(LC3)-associated phagocytosis(LAP) dysfunction in macrophages. RAW264.7 cells were randomly divided into the normal control group, oxidized low-density lipoprotein(ox-LDL) group, HLJDD group, simvastatin(simva) group, and RAW264.7-ERK5 gene knockout(ERK5-KO) group. According to the experimental protocol, cells in each group were treated for 24 h with normal control rat serum, ox-LDL, HLJDD-containing serum, or simva-containing serum. Apoptotic Jurkat cells were added to each group and co-cultured for 90 min. After removal of the supernatant, LC3-Ⅱ labeling was performed to observe LAPosomes in macrophages, and the clearance of apoptotic Jurkat cells was assessed. The expression levels of phosphorylated(p)-ERK5, ERK5, LAP-related signaling molecules [T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin-domain-containing molecule-4(TIM-4), vacuolar protein sorting 34(VPS34), Beclin-1, RUN domain Beclin-1-interacting and cysteine-rich domain-containing protein(Rubicon), autophagy-related protein 5(ATG5), and autophagy-related protein 7(ATG7)], pro-inflammatory cytokines [interleukin-1β(IL-1β), interleukin-6(IL-6)], and anti-inflammatory cytokines [interleukin-10(IL-10), transforming growth factor-β(TGF-β)] were measured. RESULTS:: showed that, compared with the control group, the ox-LDL group exhibited decreased LAPosome percentage and reduced clearance of apoptotic cells, downregulated expression of p-ERK5, TIM-4, VPS34, Beclin-1, Rubicon, ATG5, and ATG7, increased IL-1β and IL-6 levels, and no significant changes in IL-10 or TGF-β expression. Compared with the ox-LDL group, the HLJDD and simva groups showed increased LAPosome percentage and enhanced apoptotic cell clearance, upregulated expression of p-ERK5, TIM-4, VPS34, Beclin-1, Rubicon, ATG5, and ATG7, decreased IL-1β and IL-6 levels, and increased IL-10 and TGF-β expression. Compared with the HLJDD group, the ERK5-KO group exhibited significantly reduced expression of ERK5 and p-ERK5, and all other indicators were reversed. In conclusion, HLJDD may ameliorate macrophage LAP dysfunction and exert anti-AS effects by activating ERK5.
This study aims to investigate the action mechanism and target molecules of the ultrafiltration membrane extract of Angelicae Sinensis Radix and Hedysari Radix in improving renal tissue injury in rats with diabetic kidney disease(DKD) from the perspective of mitochondrial function. Ten SPF-grade male Wistar rats were selected as the control group, while 40 rats were fed a high-fat and high-sugar diet for four weeks followed by a single intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin(STZ) 35 mg·kg~(-1) to establish the DKD model. The successfully modeled rats were then randomly divided into four groups: the model group, the canagliflozin group, the Angelicae Sinensis Radix and Hedysari Radix aqueous decoction group, and the ultrafiltration membrane extract of Angelicae Sinensis Radix and Hedysari Radix group, with ten rats per group. All groups were administered via gavage for eight weeks. Renal function was assessed through 24 h urinary total protein(24-UTP) and biochemical parameters. HE staining, TUNEL staining, and transmission electron microscope were used to observe pathological morphological changes, apoptosis, and the status of intracellular organelles in cells. ELISA and Western blot were employed to measure adenosine triphosphate(ATP) content and the expression of mitochondrial function-related proteins, including optic atrophy 1(OPA1), mitofusin 2(Mfn2), dynamin-related protein 1(Drp1), ubiquitin-binding protein P62(P62), B-cell lymphoma/leukemia-2(Bcl-2), Bcl-2 interacting protein1(Beclin-1), and Bcl-2-associated X protein(Bax) in renal tissue. The results show that, compared to those in the control group, the rats in the model group exhibit a significant decrease in body weight(P&lt;0.01), along with elevated levels of blood glucose, 24-UTP, blood urea nitrogen(BUN), and serum creatinine(Scr)(P&lt;0.01). Renal tubular dilation, vacuolar changes in renal tissue cells, and a significant increase in apoptosis rate(P&lt;0.01) are observed, accompanied by mitochondrial swelling, cristae disappearance, and rupture. ATP levels in renal tissue are significantly reduced(P&lt;0.01), while the protein expressions of OPA1, Mfn2, Drp1, Beclin-1, and Bax are significantly increased(P&lt;0.05, P&lt;0.01). The expression levels of P62 and Bcl-2 are significantly decreased(P&lt;0.01). Compared to those in the model group, the rats in the ultrafiltration membrane extract group show an upward trend in body weight, with reductions in 24-UTP, BUN, and Scr levels(P&lt;0.01). Renal tubular dilation and glomerular cell vacuolation are alleviated, and the apoptosis rate of renal tissue cells is significantly reduced(P&lt;0.01). Mitochondria exhibit mild swelling but remain largely intact. ATP levels in renal tissue are significantly increased(P&lt;0.01), while the expressions of OPA1, Mfn2, Drp1, Beclin-1, and Bax are significantly decreased(P&lt;0.01). The expression of Bcl-2 is significantly increased(P&lt;0.01). In conclusion, ultrafiltration membrane extract of Angelicae Sinensis Radix and Hedysari Radix may attenuate renal tissue injury and delay disease progression in DKD rats by restoring mitochondrial dynamics, controlling mitochondrial fission-fusion balance, and improving mitochondrial function.
Abnormal mechanical stress is closely linked to intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD). Iron homeostasis disorder occurs in various degenerative diseases, including IVDD. PIEZO1 serves as a mechanosensitive cation channel, involving in multiple physiological and pathological processes; however, its potential association with iron homeostasis and IVDD remain to be elucidated. Here, it is discovered that PIEZO1 accumulates in cartilage endplate (CEP) during IVDD, accompanied by intensive ferritinophagy. Specific activation of PIEZO1 or NCOA4 (nuclear receptor coactivator 4) aggravates CEP degeneration. Conversely, chondrocyte-specific knockout of Piezo1 mitigates CEP degeneration by restoring the labile iron pool and stabilizing the mitochondrial genome. Mechanistically, PIEZO1-mediated nuclear translocation of YAP1 (Yes1 associated transcriptional regulator) enhances NCOA4-dependent ferritinophagy by promoting extracellular Ca2+ influx under oxidative stress. Moreover, ferritinophagy induces in the accumulation and release of Z-form mitochondrial DNA (Z-mtDNA), resulting in the activation of ZBP1 (Z-DNA binding protein 1), ultimately leading to NFKB-dependent inflammatory cascade. Therapeutically, blocking PIEZO1-mediated calcium influx or suppressing YAP1 activation alleviates ferritinophagy. Additionally, Ncoa4 silencing attenuates Z-mtDNA-ZBP1-NFKB axis-driven IVDD. Collectively, our findings suggest that mechanical overload induces ferritinophagy-dependent CEP degeneration via PIEZO1 activation and subsequent upregulation of the Z-mtDNA-ZBP1-NFKB axis, which might furnish a therapeutic target for IVDD.Abbreviation: AAV: adeno-associated virus; ALP: alkaline phosphatase; ARS: alizarin red S; BV:TV: bone volume:total volume; CAMK2/CaMKII: calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase II; CEP: cartilage endplate; CEPCs: cartilage endplate chondrocytes; ChIP: chromatin immunoprecipitation; CKO: conditional knockout; CsA: cyclosporin A; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; DHI: disc height index; ECM: extracellular matrix; EtBr: ethidium bromide; HIF: hypoxia inducible factor; IVDD: intervertebral disc degeneration; KD: knockdown; LAT: large tumor suppressor kinase; LSI: lumbar spine instability; MDA: malondialdehyde; Mito-ROS: mitochondrial reactive oxygen species; MRI: magnetic resonance imaging; mtDNA: mitochondrial DNA; NCOA4: nuclear receptor coactivator 4; PCBP: poly(rC) binding protein; ROS: reactive oxygen species; RT-qPCR: real-time quantitative reverse transcription; SOFG: safranin O and fast green; WWTR1/TAZ: WW domain containing transcription regulator 1; TEAD1: TEA domain transcription factor 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; YAP1: Yes1 associated transcriptional regulator; ZBP1: Z-DNA binding protein 1; Z-DNA: Z-form DNA; Z-mtDNA: Z-form mitochondrial DNA.
Hypertension is a major modifiable risk factor for chronic kidney disease (CKD), yet predicting which hypertensive individuals will progress to CKD remains challenging. We aimed to develop and validate a plasma protein-based risk score for incident CKD in hypertension and to identify causal proteins and potential therapeutic targets.Using data from the UK Biobank Pharma Proteomics Project, we included 22 258 hypertensive participants without baseline CKD. A protein risk score was developed in a training set (n=11 671) and validated in internal testing (n=7778) and external validation (Scotland/Wales, n=2809) cohorts. Hypothesis-generating Mendelian randomization using cis- protein quantitative trait loci was performed to prioritize proteins for functional follow-up.A 13-protein risk score (C-index ≈0.78) was developed, with a simplified 3-protein panel (RNASE1 [pancreatic ribonuclease], IGFBP4 [insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 4], GDF15 [growth differentiation factor 15]) capturing most of its predictive power. Adding the 13-protein score to the clinical model significantly improved the C-index by 0.019 (95% CI, 0.011-0.026) in internal testing and 0.047 (95% CI, 0.013-0.090) in external validation cohorts, with significant net reclassification improvement and integrated discrimination improvement, while an estimated glomerular filtration rate-based polygenic risk score provided no meaningful improvement. Mendelian randomization analysis identified 7 proteins (BMPER [BMP-binding endothelial regulator protein], GFRA1 [GDNF family receptor alpha-1], CST3 [cystatin-C], CXCL16 [C-X-C motif chemokine 16], FOLR1 [folate receptor alpha], AMBP [protein AMBP], and STC1 [stanniocalcin-1]) with nominally significant associations with hypertensive CKD, all with higher levels increasing risk. Enrichment analyses highlighted protease inhibition and folate metabolism pathways. FOLR1 and STC1 emerged as druggable targets.This study establishes a robust plasma protein signature for predicting hypertensive CKD and provides genetic evidence supporting several proteins as prioritized candidates, revealing novel pathways and nominating FOLR1 and STC1 as potential therapeutic targets for further investigation.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41814787 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 41403814 is a review article
Ischemic stroke remains a leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide, with limited treatment options available. Vascular dysfunction is a key pathomechanism, and brain endothelial cells (bECs) play a critical role in determining stroke outcomes. This study investigates the specific roles of YAP (yes-associated protein 1) and TAZ (WW domain containing transcription regulator 1) in regulating bEC functions during stroke.Mice underwent 30-minute middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) followed by reperfusion to model ischemic stroke. TAZ reporter mice were used to track stroke-induced subcellular changes in TAZ expression. Tamoxifen-inducible endothelial-specific Yap/Taz knockout and control mice were used to study YAP/TAZ's role in bEC function post-stroke. Stroke outcomes were measured by magnetic resonance imaging and NeuN (neuronal nuclei)-associated lesion analysis. Properties of bECs were assessed via immunohistochemistry and RNA sequencing. Inflammatory parameters were analyzed by flow cytometry of brain immune cells and quantitative polymerase chain reaction.Middle cerebral artery occlusion/reperfusion regulated Yap, Taz, and YAP/TAZ target gene expression in the brain. TAZ reporter mice confirmed stroke-induced endothelial YAP/TAZ activation. Endothelial-specific loss of YAP/TAZ reduced infarct volumes at 4 weeks after MCAo without impairing stroke-induced angiogenesis, revealing an unexpected neuroprotective role for endothelial YAP/TAZ depletion. YAP/TAZ deficiency modulated cGAS-STING (cyclic GMP-AMP synthase-stimulator of interferon genes) and Wnt (wingless-related integration site) signaling genes in bECs and promoted myeloid cell recruitment and an anti-inflammatory vascular environment during the subacute phase of stroke.Our data suggest that endothelial YAP/TAZ affects the inflammatory milieu subacutely after ischemia and thereby influences the chronic course of stroke. Modulation of YAP/TAZ activity in ECs may be a promising therapeutic target to promote neuroprotection after stroke.
Urea, traditionally recognized as the final product of protein metabolism and a regulator of urine concentration, has recently emerged as a potential contributor to central nervous system (CNS) pathologies. However, its role in ischemic stroke remains largely unexplored. In this study, we identify urea as a previously unrecognized risk signal, whose levels rapidly increase in the brain following ischemic stroke. Elevated urea triggers the induction of neurotoxic A1-type astrocytes and promotes neuronal pyroptosis. Mechanistically, this process is mediated by the astrocytic urea transporter UT-B, which facilitates urea influx and initiates a cascade of neuroinflammatory responses. Through quantitative proteomics and gene silencing, we further demonstrate that urea exacerbates DNA damage via activation of the transcriptional coactivator Wwtr1, thereby amplifying the generation of A1 astrocytes. Collectively, our findings reveal a novel pathophysiological role for urea in ischemic brain injury and underscore the critical involvement of astrocytes in modulating neuroinflammation and neuronal death.
Bone metastsis in advanced breast cancer patients are usually osteolytic. A better understanding of the mechanisms in osteolytic metastasis is critical for the development of new therapies. YTH domain-containing family protein 3 (YTHDF3) has been reported to function as an N6-methyladenosine (m6A)-modified mRNA regulator. In this study, we found YTDHF3 expression was associated with clinical characteristics of breast cancer patients. YTHDF3 expression influenced the migration and invasion capacity of breast cancer cells in vitro and in vivo, and low expression of YTHDF3 suppressed cancer cell-induced osteoclast differentiation and osteolytic bone destruction. Moreover, we found YTHDF3 enhanced the translation of zinc finger E-box-binding protein 1 (ZEB1) and SMAD family member 5 (SMAD5) by reading the m6A modification sites in their mRNAs and further promoted the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of breast cancer cells. Enhanced expression of ZEB1 promoted the transcription of bone morphogenetic protein inhibitors such as NOG, FST and CCN2, which boosts osteolytic metastasis. Furthermore, we newly found Wnt family member 5B (WNT5B) expression was regulated by ZEB1, also involved in osteolytic process. In conclusion, YTHDF3 plays an important role in osteolytic metastasis and it may serve as a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for breast cancer bone metastasis.© 2025. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41241042 is a review article
Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has caused more than 7 million worldwide deaths, but the mechanisms underlying its severe clinical outcomes remain elusive. Although attachment of the spike (S) protein of SARS-CoV-2 to angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), a pivotal step for infection, induces inflammation, the intracellular signals triggered by this interaction are unclear. Here, we found that S protein induced phosphorylation of SMAD family member 5 which was mediated by the bone morphologenetic protein (BMP) receptor activin receptor-like kinase 1 (ALK1) and BMP receptor type II. SMAD5 activation depended on the interaction of the cytoplasmic domains of ACE2 and ALK1. Notably, repetitive treatment with S protein increased the expression of immune-response genes, including interferon regulatory factor 1, interleukin-17A, and cysteine-cysteine chemokine motif ligand 20 (CCL20), all of which were blocked by an ALK inhibitor. In contrast, the S protein of human coronavirus NL63, a pathogen of acute respiratory infection with less severity than SARS-CoV-2 that also binds to ACE2, did not activate SMAD5. Because CCL20 recruits multiple immune cells positive for CC receptor 6, a specific receptor for CCL20, and was detected in broncho-alveolar lavage fluids of patients with respiratory failures by SARS-Cov-2, data suggest that SMAD5 activation by S protein augments the early immune response, leading to the severe clinical outcomes of SARS-CoV-2.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Injinoryeong-san (IJO), known as Yinchen-Wuling Powder in Chinese medicine, is a traditional herbal formula comprising six herbal medicinal plants, including Atractylodes macrocephala Koidz., Polyporus umbellatus (Pers.) Fries, Poria cocos (Schw.) Wolf, Cinnamomum cassia Presl, Alisma orientale (Sam.) Juz., and Artemisia capillaris Thunb. This formulation has been used in East Asian countries for centuries to treat liver-related diseases; however, there is currently no direct evidence elucidating its pharmacological effects against metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH).This study aimed to investigate the pharmacological effects and underlying mechanisms of IJO in Western diet (WD)-induced MASH mouse model and in an in vitro human hepatocyte cell line model, with particular focus on the Yes-associated protein (YAP)/transcriptional coactivator with PDZ-binding motif (TAZ)-signaling pathway.The MASH condition was established by administering a WD diet for 8 weeks. To assess the pharmacological properties of IJO, comprehensive indicators for lipid metabolism, oxidative stress, inflammation, hepatic fibrosis, and apoptosis signals were determined in the liver tissue and serum samples. To further validate the underlying mechanism, in vitro experiments were conducted using the human hepatocyte cell line, Huh7 cells.IJO administration significantly improved serum levels of alanine aminotransferase and lactate dehydrogenase (P < 0.05 or 0.01), as well as histopathological analysis. Lipid accumulation by Oil Red O staining, and hepatic triglyceride and total cholesterol were markedly reduced (P < 0.05 or 0.01). IJO also normalized key regulators of lipid metabolism proteins, phospho-Adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase-α activity, Fatty acid synthase, and mature/precursor Sterol regulatory protein 1c ratio (p < 0.05 to 0.001). Oxidative stress markers, including 4-hydroxyneal signals, nitric oxide, reactive oxygen species, and lipid peroxidation, were enhanced in WD-fed liver tissue (P < 0.05 or 0.01). However, IJO significantly decreased these markers by recovering total glutathione, superoxide dismutase activities, and catalase activities (P < 0.05 to 0.001). IJO remarkably decreased pro-inflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, but increased IL-10 in hepatic protein levels (P < 0.05 or 0.01). Furthermore, Toll-like receptor-4 and Nuclear factor kappa B activation were also notably attenuated by IJO by increases of NF-κB inhibitor α (P < 0.05 to 0.001). Fibrotic alterations were alleviated by reducing hepatic collagen deposition, extracellular matrix accumulation, and TGF-β1 expression (P < 0.05). Hepatic apoptosis was also significantly decreased as indicated by reduced TUNEL-positive cells, cytochrome c release, and caspase-3 activity (P < 0.05 or 0.01). Mechanistically, IJO suppressed nuclear translocation of YAP and TAZ (WWTR1) in both mouse liver tissues and Huh7 cells under MASH conditions. In addition, IJO significantly inhibited human YAP1 gene promoter activity (P < 0.01). Notably, major chemical constituents of IJO, including Alisol B, Cinnamic acid, and Scoparone, exhibited inhibitory effects on YAP/TAZ nuclear translocation at the cellular level.IJO exhibits significant therapeutic potential against MASH by simultaneously targeting key pathological processes, including lipid dysregulation, oxidative stress, inflammation, fibrosis, and apoptosis. These multi-targeted effects are mechanistically linked to suppression of the YAP/TAZ signaling pathway, suggesting IJO as a promising candidate for further development as a hepatoprotective agent.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Accelerated CHRN/AChR/nicotinic acetylcholine receptor internalization induced by auto-antibodies impairs neuromuscular junction transmission and contributes to myasthenia gravis (MG), a typical autoimmune disease. Although CHRN internalization is well established in MG pathogenesis, the downstream cellular events, especially those related to autophagy, remain poorly described. Here, we report that RAPSN/rapsyn, an intracellular CHRN-binding protein essential for its clustering, accumulates as aggregates in experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG) mice. In CHRN antibody-treated myotubes, RAPSN dissociates from internalized CHRN and forms aggregates due to exposure of its hydrophobic domains. These aggregates in turn impair the trafficking and membrane incorporation of newly synthesized CHRN, thereby exacerbating CHRN loss. Notably, the accumulation of RAPSN aggregates facilitates formation of HSPA/HSP70-BAG3 complex, which recognizes and transports the aggregates along microtubules to form perinuclear aggresomes for subsequent lysosomal degradation. Accordingly, pharmacological inhibition or knockdown of HSPA-BAG3 complex increases RAPSN aggregation, which participates in enhanced CHRN loss and worsened muscle weakness in EAMG mice. This study identifies HSPA-BAG3 aggrephagy as a protective mechanism that clears RAPSN aggregates to maintain CHRN integrity and suggests a potential therapeutic strategy for MG.Abbreviation: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; AAV: adeno-associated virus; CASA: chaperone-assisted selective autophagy; CHRN/nicotinic acetylcholine receptor: cholinergic receptor nicotinic; CHRN-ab: CHRN antibodies; CHX: cycloheximide; CMAP: compound muscle action potential; CQ: chloroquine; EAMG: experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; GAS: gastrocnemius; MAP1LC3A/B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 alpha/beta; MG: myasthenia gravis; NMJ: neuromuscular junction; Rapa: rapamycin; RAPSN/rapsyn: receptor associated protein of the synapse; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; TA: tibialis anterior; αBTX-A594: α-bungarotoxin-Alexa-594.
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is caused by mutations in the Survival Motor Neuron 1 (SMN1) gene, leading to reduced SMN protein levels and widespread disruption in RNA metabolism. Despite of disease-modifying therapies, which remarkably improve patient outcomes, the long-term effects remain unknown. Dysregulated small non-coding RNAs, including microRNAs, have been reported in SMA, but their contribution to the disease remains unclear. We previously showed that flunarizine could improve the phenotype of an SMA mouse model; however its mode of action is incomplete. Here, we showed that flunarizine modulates the expression of numerous microRNAs. Using small-RNA sequencing of a flunarizine-treated SMA patient fibroblast cell line, we identified several microRNAs, which are also dysregulated in the brains and/or spinal cords of SMA mouse models at early disease stages and corrected with flunarizine. Transfection of the miR-128-3p inhibitor interferes with the flunarizine-induced neurite outgrowth in the murine neuronal NSC34 cells. Among the mRNAs modulated by flunarizine, homeodomain interacting protein kinase 2 (Hipk2) transcripts were revealed as novel miR-128-3p targets using either the mimic or its inhibitor. Our findings suggest that an early microRNA accumulation in spinal cords of SMA models can contribute to molecular dysfunctions and may represent an initiating event in pathogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Reducing antibiotic dependence in poultry production is critical to mitigating antimicrobial resistance (AMR). Selective breeding for stronger innate immunity may provide a sustainable alternative under a One Health framework. This study investigates whether enhancing monocyte/macrophage phagocytic capacity in layer chickens could improve disease resistance without compromising production performance under antibiotic-free conditions.Phagocytic capacity was assessed using multiple assays. Phagocytosis product (PP) was measured using the MTT-HCT-8 method, pHrodo-labeled E. coli, and FITC-labeled S. pullorum, whereas the phagocytic index (PI) was determined using O. aries erythrocytes. Chickens were divergently selected into high (HPPG) and low (LPPG) phagocytosis product groups based on monocyte/macrophage phagocytic capacity at 16 weeks of age (wk). Production traits, immune-related gene expression, oxidative stress-related markers, and pathogen-clearance ability were compared between groups using Student's t-test.PP measured by the MTT-HCT-8 method was significantly correlated with PP or PI using the other methods (P < 0.05, R 2 > 0.70). HPPG hens showed significantly higher laying rates at 40 and 60 weeks and greater hatch weight than LPPG hens (P < 0.05), whereas fertility, hatchability, or semen quality did not differ between groups. HPPG birds exhibited higher interferon-gamma receptor (IFNGR) and Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) expression and, after S. pullorum challenge, showed reduced tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α) and increased microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 alpha (LC3A) expression (P < 0.05), indicating enhanced pathogen clearance and autophagy without exacerbating oxidative stress or inflammation.Selecting for proper high phagocytic capacity (with a preliminary estimated PP range of 1.58-2.74) improves resistance in layer chickens reared antibiotic-free without reducing productivity and exacerbating oxidative stress or inflammation. These findings support phagocytosis-based phenotyping as a potential balanced-breeding strategy consistent with One Health goals for sustainable poultry production.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Cao, Wang, Qi, Zhao, Deng, Sun, Zhou, Yu, Yuan and Lian.
Purinergic signaling is critical to myocardial inflammation and function. However, the underlying mechanisms are not well defined. Herein, we identified a protein kinase, homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 2 (HIPK2), as a novel regulator of purinergic signaling. Cardiomyocyte-specific HIPK2 knockout (CM-HIPK2-KO) hearts exhibited reduced expression of multiple key players of canonical purinergic signaling, including ectonucleases CD39 and CD73, and led to excessive inflammation and cardiac dysfunction. Multiple in vitro experiments with gain-of-function (adenovirus expressing HIPK2, Ad-HIPK2), and loss-of-function (Ad-sh-RNA-HIPK2) approaches were performed to establish that HIPK2-mediated regulation of purinergic signaling is a conserved mechanism in many cell types of diverse backgrounds. Mechanistically, we identified that the signaling circuit of HIPK2-ERK-CREB exerts its effects on purinergic signaling through transcriptional control on CD39 and CD73. Aberrant activation of purinergic signaling and inflammation was critical to cardiac pathologies because interventions with purinergic signaling inhibitor apyrase or NLRP3 inflammasome inhibitor CY09 largely rescued the detrimental cardiac phenotype of CM-HIPK2 KOs. Thus, herein, we identified HIPK2 as a novel regulator of purinergic signaling. Its deletion leads to excessive inflammation and cardiac dysfunction. Therefore, strategies to maintain HIPK2 are critical to sustaining cardiac health.© 2026. The Author(s).
Fusion genes have emerged as pivotal oncogenic drivers across diverse cancer types. The predominant mechanisms underlying fusion gene formation include chromosomal aberrations and intergenic mRNA trans-splicing. With advances in cancer genomics and transcriptomics, the identification, prevalence, and functional characterization of fusion genes have become major areas of investigation. In this study, we performed a comprehensive analysis of fusion events involving the family with sequence similarity 168B (FAM168B) and pleckstrin homology domain-containing B2 (PLEKHB2) in breast invasive carcinoma (BRCA). Integrated DNA and RNA sequencing analyses revealed that the chimeric PLEKHB2::FAM168B mRNA transcript is generated through an intergenic mRNA trans-splicing mechanism. This chimeric transcript leads to elevated FAM168B protein expression via long intergenic non-coding RNA 02228 (LINC02228)-mediated activation of DEAD-box helicase 3 X-linked (DDX3X). This, in turn, activates the DAZ-associated protein 2 (DAZAP2)/homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 2 (HIPK2)/tumor protein 53 (TP53) signaling cascade, resulting in enhanced cell cycle progression and increased BRCA cell proliferation. In summary, our findings suggest that chimeric PLEKHB2::FAM168B mRNA may serve as a potential biomarker in BRCA.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Infection of the large yellow croaker (Larimichthys crocea) embryo cell line YCE1 with megalocytivirus strain FD201807 leads to accumulation of capsid-deficient viral intermediates within intracellular vesicles at 48 h post-infection (a phenotype associated with non-lytic egress), which coincides with the initial peak of viral genomic copies. To characterize the host molecular response during this critical stage, we performed time-course RNA sequencing at 24, 48, 96, and 144 hpi. Integrated analysis identified 6661 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and 1138 differential alternative splicing (DAS) events affecting 892 genes, with DAS event abundance peaking at 48 h. DAS genes in autophagy and Golgi vesicle transport pathways, both integral to animal innate immunity, were significantly enriched exclusively at this timepoint, featuring novel mutually exclusive exon (MXE) isoforms in gopc (Golgi-associated PDZ and coiled-coil motif containing) and rint1 (RAD50 interactor 1). Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) of DEGs identified mapk9 (mitogen-activated protein kinase 9) and map1lc3a (microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 alpha) as hub genes within modules enriched for autophagy-related functions. Separate co-expression analysis of DAS genes revealed rnf5, rimoc1, and golga4 as hub genes, with gopc exhibiting only a single linkage to rnf5. These findings implied concurrent transcriptional and virus-induced host splicing regulation of vesicle-associated innate defense pathways and suggest that splicing-derived features may serve as potential candidates for diagnostics or prevention against megalocytivirus disease in L. crocea.
Alpha-herpesviruses have evolved strategies to break through immune defenses and cause severe host damage. Here, we demonstrate that the tegument protein UL48 in pseudorabies virus (PRV) inhibits type I interferon signaling by triggering STING1 degradation via a selective macroautophagy/autophagy pathway. Mechanistically, UL48 recruits the E3 ligase TRIM21 (tripartite motif containing 21), which catalyzes the ubiquitination of STING1 to form a K33/K63 linkage and is captured by the cargo receptor CALCOCO2/NDP52 for lysosomal degradation. In addition, multiple α-herpesvirus tegument protein UL48 homologs also target STING1 for degradation. Importantly, this phenotype was also observed in other herpesviruses driven by PRV UL48 homologs (herpes simplex virus-1 [HSV-1] and cercopithecine alphaherpesvirus 2 [CHV-2]). In addition, UL48-deficient PRV and HSV-1 mutant viruses attenuated pathogenicity in mice. In conclusion, this study describes a novel mechanism by which α-herpesviruses utilize UL48 proteins to promote viral escape from the host immune response.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; B-DNA: poly (dA:dT); BNIP3L/Nix: BCL2 interacting protein 3 like; CALCOCO2/NDP52: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; cGAMP: cyclic GMP-AMPP; CGAS: cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; CHX: cyclohexane; CHV-2: cercopithecine herpesvirus 2; CQ: chloroquine; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; GFP: green fluorescent protein; H&E: hematoxylin and eosin; HSV-1: herpes simplex virus 1; IRF3: interferon regulatory factor 3; LIR: LC3-interacting region; MAP1LC3A/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 alpha; MG132: cbz-leu-leu-leucinal; NBR1: NBR1 autophagy cargo receptor; OPTN: optineurin; PRV: pseudorabies virus; sgRNA: single guide RNA; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STING1/STING: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; TOLLIP: toll interacting protein.
The aim of this study was to identify miRNAs that could potentially influence the activity of SMAD proteins involved in TGFβ signal transduction in five types of breast cancer in Polish women. Patients with five breast cancer subtypes were included in the study: luminal A (n = 130), luminal B HER2- (n = 100), luminal B HER2+ (n = 96), non-luminal HER2+ (n = 36), and TNBC (n = 43). During surgery, tumor tissue was removed along with a margin of healthy tissue (control). Molecular analysis included determination of the expression of genes related to SMAD protein signal transduction using mRNA microarrays and reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). Protein expression was determined using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The miRNA profiling was performed using miRNA microarrays and the miRDB database. SMAD3 and SMAD5 were overexpressed in all types of breast cancer, which could be related to the reduced expression of miR-145, and the findings for SMAD4 and miR-155 were similar. Additionally, the level of SMAD7 was reduced, which may be due to the low activity of miR-15b and miR21b. This study determined the gene expression profiles involved in SMAD protein signal transduction across five different types of breast cancer and identified the miRNAs potentially regulating their activity. Overexpression of SMAD3, SMAD4, and SMAD5 suggests excessive activation of the TGFβ pathway, potentially promoting tumor growth and development. Concurrently, a significant reduction in SMAD7 expression removes inhibitory control in the TGFβ pathway, a phenomenon that is particularly evident in more aggressive breast cancer types.
The crosstalk between intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD) and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) has been investigated. However, the common mechanism underlying this phenomenon has not been clearly elucidated. This study aimed to explore the shared gene signatures of IVDD and T2DM.The expression profiles of IVDD (GSE27494) and T2DM (GSE20966) were acquired from the Gene Expression Omnibus database. Five hub genes including ANGPTL4, CCL2, CCN3, THBS2, and INHBA were preliminarily screened. GO (Gene Ontology) enrichment analysis, functional correlation analysis, immune filtration, Transcription factors (TFs)-mRNA-miRNA coregulatory network, and potential drugs prediction were performed following the identification of hub genes. RNA sequencing, in vivo and in vitro experiments on rats were further performed to validate the expression and function of the target gene.Five hub genes (ANGPTL4, CCL2, CCN3, THBS2, and INHBA) were identified. GO analysis demonstrated the regulation of the immune system, extracellular matrix (ECM), and SMAD protein signal transduction. There was a strong correlation between hub genes and different functions, including lipid metabolism, mitochondrial function, and ECM degradation. The immune filtration pattern grouped by disease and the expression of hub genes showed significant changes in the immune cell composition. TFs-mRNA-miRNA co-expression networks were constructed. In addition, pepstatin showed great drug-targeting relevance based on potential drugs prediction of hub genes. ANGPTL4, a gene that mediates the inhibition of lipoprotein lipase activity, was eventually determined after hub gene screening, validation by different datasets, RNA sequencing, and experiments.This study screened five hub genes and ANGPTL4 was eventually determined as a potential target for the regulation of the crosstalk in patients with IVDD and T2DM.© 2023 Chen et al.
The crumbs cell polarity complex plays a crucial role in apical-basal epithelial polarity, cellular adhesion, and morphogenesis. Homozygous variants in human CRB1 result in autosomal recessive Leber congenital amaurosis (LCA) and retinitis pigmentosa (RP), with no established genotype-phenotype correlation. The associated protein complexes have key functions in developmental pathways; however, the underlying disease mechanism remains unclear. Using the oko meduzym289/m289 (crb2a-/- ) zebrafish, we performed integrative transcriptomic (RNA-seq data) and methylomic [reduced representation bisulphite sequencing (RRBS)] analysis of whole retina to identify dysregulated genes and pathways. Delayed retinal cell specification was identified in both the crb2a-/- zebrafish and CRB1 patient-derived retinal organoids, highlighting the dysfunction of cell cycle modulation and epigenetic transcriptional control. Differential DNA methylation analysis revealed novel hypermethylated pathways involving biological adhesion, Hippo, and transforming growth factor β (TGFβ) signalling. By integrating gene expression with DNA methylation using functional epigenetic modules (FEM), we identified six key modules involving cell cycle control and disturbance of TGFβ, bone morphogenetic protein (BMP), Hippo, and SMAD protein signal transduction pathways, revealing significant interactome hotspots relevant to crb2a function and confirming the epigenetic control of gene regulation in early retinal development, which points to a novel mechanism underlying CRB1-retinopathies. © 2023 The Authors. The Journal of Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.© 2023 The Authors. The Journal of Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
Skipped: PubMed ID 20517722 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 22952397 is a review article
Processing of the nf(kappa)b2 gene product p100 to generate p52 is an important step in NF-kappaB regulation. We show that this step is negatively regulated by a processing-inhibitory domain (PID) within p100 and positively regulated by the NF-kappaB-inducing kinase (NIK). While the PID suppresses the constitutive processing of p100, NIK induces p100 processing by stimulating site-specific phosphorylation and ubiquitination of this precursor protein. Further, a natural mutation of the gene encoding NIK in alymphoplasia (aly) mice cripples the function of NIK in p100 processing, causing a severe defect in p52 production. These data suggest that NIK is a specific kinase regulating p100 processing and explain why the aly and nf(kappa)b2 knockout mice exhibit similar immune deficiencies.
The processing of the nfkappab2 gene product p100 to generate p52 is a regulated event, which is important for the instrumental function of NF-kappaB. We previously demonstrated that this tightly controlled event is regulated positively by NF-kappaB-inducing kinase (NIK) and its downstream kinase, IkappaB kinase alpha (IKKalpha). However, the precise mechanisms by which NIK and IKKalpha induce p100 processing remain unclear. Here, we show that, besides activating IKKalpha, NIK also serves as a docking molecule recruiting IKKalpha to p100. This novel function of NIK requires two specific amino acid residues, serine 866 and serine 870, of p100 that are known to be essential for inducible processing of p100. We also show that, after being recruited into p100 complex, activated IKKalpha phosphorylates specific serines located in both N- and C-terminal regions of p100 (serines 99, 108, 115, 123, and 872). The phosphorylation of these specific serines is the prerequisite for ubiquitination and subsequent processing of p100 mediated by the beta-TrCP ubiquitin ligase and 26 S proteasome, respectively. These results highlight the critical but different roles of NIK and IKKalpha in regulating p100 processing and shed light on the mechanisms mediating the tight control of p100 processing. These data also provide the first evidence for explaining why overexpression of IKKalpha or its activation by many other stimuli such as tumor necrosis factor and mitogens fails to induce p100 processing.
Skipped: PubMed ID 34659217 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 12773372 is a review article
