Liver fibrosis is a progressive pathological process driven by liver injury, including viral hepatitis and metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH), and can progress to cirrhosis, liver failure, and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Hepatocyte-hepatic stellate cell (HSC) crosstalk plays a central role in disease progression, but its regulatory mechanisms remain incompletely understood.This study aimed to define hepatocyte-HSC crosstalk in liver fibrosis mediated by microRNA-149-5p (miR-149-5p) signaling and to explore its potential as a therapeutic target for intervention.Differentially expressed exosomal microRNAs were identified by RNA sequencing of hepatocyte-derived exosomes from fibrotic and control livers. Functional screening using collagen type I alpha 1 chain (COL1A1) reporter assays identified miR-149-5p as an anti-fibrotic candidate. Exosome-mediated intercellular communication was confirmed using co-culture systems and confirmed by tumor susceptibility 101 (TSG101) silencing. Liver fibrosis was induced by bile duct ligation (BDL) and thioacetamide (TAA) in mice. Therapeutic effects were evaluated using AAV-mediated hepatocyte-specific overexpression and miR-149-5p agomir administration.miR-149-5p was selectively enriched in hepatocyte-derived exosomes via a CCUC-based EXOmotif and directly targeted PDGFRB in HSCs, thereby inhibiting HSC activation, proliferation, and collagen deposition without affecting hepatocyte function. During fibrosis progression, PU.1 bound to the miR-149-5p promoter and suppressed its transcription, leading to reduced exosomal miR-149-5p delivery and consequent PDGFRB derepression in HSCs. Both AAV-mediated overexpression and systemic miR-149-5p agomir administration significantly attenuated BDL- and TAA-induced liver fibrosis, as evidenced by reduced collagen deposition, decreased hydroxyproline content, and downregulation of HSC activation markers.The PU.1 (hepatocyte)-miR-149-5p (exosome)-PDGFRB (HSC) axis represents a key regulatory pathway in liver fibrosis, wherein PU.1 represses miR-149-5p transcription in hepatocytes, leading to EXOmotif-dependent reduction of exosomal miR-149-5p delivery and consequent derepression of PDGFRB in HSCs, thereby promoting HSC activation and fibrosis progression. Importantly, miR-149-5p agomir administration offers a promising therapeutic strategy for liver fibrosis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Although hydrophobic drugs demonstrate the promising therapeutic efficacy for peripheral artery disease in vitro, their in vivo performance is often hindered by low bioavailability due to inherent hydrophobicity. To address this, an injectable, self-healing and curcumin-sustained-release hydrogel (CGP hydrogel) using a gelatin/polyvinyl alcohol hydrogel (GP hydrogel) was developed. The CGP hydrogel effectively preserved the DPPH radical-scavenging activity of curcumin at room temperature. Meanwhile, in the murine hindlimb ischemia model, a single intramuscular injection of CGP following femoral artery ligation significantly improved the motor function of the ischemic limb compared to curcumin suspension. This superior therapeutic outcome is attributed to the sustained release of curcumin from the CGP hydrogel. Mechanistically, we found that CGP, but not GP, inhibited the expression of Atp6v0d2 in ischemic skeletal muscle cells and suppressed ischemia-induced autophagy. The inhibition of autophagy may mitigate tissue and cellular necrosis and promote the expression of Myogenin. Furthermore, CGP reduced the expression of pro-fibrotic factors such as Tgfb1 and Ctgf and prevented skeletal muscle fibrosis. In summary, the CGP hydrogel, through its sustained release of curcumin, inhibits ischemia-induced autophagy, alleviates necrosis and fibrosis in skeletal muscle tissue and preserves motor function in the ischemic limb.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Infantile myofibroma (IM) is the most common congenital fibrous tumor of infancy, originating from fibroblasts and myofibroblasts and present at birth in approximately 50%-60% of cases. Solitary IMs most often develop in the head and neck, less frequently on the trunk or extremities, and usually have an excellent prognosis in the absence of visceral involvement. Clinically, IM appears as a painless, firm, bluish-purple, freely mobile nodule and may occasionally show ulceration or skin atrophy, clinically mimicking hemangioma. Imaging typically shows well-defined masses with low-flow or peripheral vascularity, distinguishing them from highly vascular hemangiomas. Although solitary lesions may spontaneously regress within 18-24 months, surgical excision is advised when diagnosis is uncertain, functional risk exists, or for cosmetic or psychosocial reasons. Multicentric IM without visceral involvement also has a favorable outcome, whereas lesions with visceral involvement carry significantly higher morbidity and mortality. Mutations in PDGFRB and, less commonly, NOTCH3 are reported in IM and may guide future targeted therapies. In the absence of standardized guidelines, management must be individualized, with options including observation, surgical excision, and chemotherapy for extensive or visceral disease. Regular clinical and imaging follow-up is essential until lesion stabilization or regression is confirmed. Here, we present a female neonate with a scalp IM. Persistent ulceration, recurrent bleeding, inability to definitively exclude malignancy on imaging, and significant maternal distress warranted the decision for surgical excision. This case emphasizes the importance of individualized care in IM, guided by current literature on presentation, pathology, and treatment.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. on behalf of The American Society of Plastic Surgeons.
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) survivors frequently experience a wide range of symptoms known as post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 (PASC) or long COVID. Importantly, complications arising from microvascular dysfunction, blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption, and chronic neuroinflammation have been implicated in driving PASC within the central nervous system (CNS), known as neuro-PASC. Notably, people with HIV (PWH), who suffer from chronic neuroinflammation, BBB impairment, and glial cell dysfunction, collectively known as neuro-HIV, are generally at higher risk of neuro-PASC. The overlap between neuro-PASC and neuro-HIV raises concerns that HIV and SARS-CoV-2 co-infection may exacerbate neurological dysfunctions among PWH. In this study, using an in-vitro cell culture model, we examine the effects of HIV and SARS-CoV-2 mono- and co-infection in microglia, astrocytes, and pericytes. Our results demonstrated that majority of brain cell types support SARS-CoV-2 replication, in the presence and absence of HIV infection. Furthermore, in both mono- and co-infected cells, there were varying degree of up- and downregulation of SARS-CoV-2 host cell entry factors, such as ACE2, TMPRSS2, NRP1, and TRIM28, and inflammatory cytokines including IL-6, TNF-α, and IL-1β. Moreover, conditioned media collected from HIV, SARS-CoV-2, and HIV/SARS-CoV-2 co-infected astrocytes and pericytes were shown to be neurotoxic. Additionally, proteomic analysis has revealed a unique set of proteins significantly up/down regulated in HIV/SARS-CoV-2 co-infected astrocytes and pericytes. The gene set enrichment analysis of these proteins indicates dysregulation of lipid, energy, and immune metabolism pathways linked to neurodegenerative disorders like Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Huntington's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. These in-vitro findings indicate that astrocytes and pericytes from HIV/SARS-CoV-2 co-infection exhibit altered protein expression profiles, implicating dysregulated signaling pathways associated with neurodegenerative dysfunction.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Medical Virology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Thyroid cancer (TC) is the most common endocrine malignancy. While papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) generally has a favorable prognosis, anaplastic thyroid cancer (ATC) is rare but highly aggressive, with limited treatment options, highlighting the urgent need for novel therapeutic targets. Macrophages are a major component of the immune infiltrate in TC, and their abundance is associated with poor prognosis. We recently identified upregulation of the immune checkpoint TIM3 (T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin-domain containing protein 3) on M2-like macrophages both in vitro and in ATC xenografts. In addition, we have shown that transforming growth factor β1 (TGFβ1) promotes macrophage polarization toward an M2-like phenotype. However, the role and clinical significance of TGFβ1 in regulating TIM3 expression in TC-associated macrophages remains unclear. We found that TGFβ1 secreted by ATC cells significantly increased HAVCR2 (TIM3) mRNA expression in human monocytes. Analysis of patient samples demonstrated elevated TIM3 expression in both PTC and ATC tissues compared with adenoma and normal thyroid counterparts. Analysis of publicly available single-cell RNA sequencing datasets further showed increased TIM3 expression in T cells from both tumor types. Notably, TIM3 upregulation was also localized to M2-like macrophages within the thyroid tumor microenvironment (TME), and positively correlated with TGFB1/CD163 expression, suggesting the involvement of a TGFβ-TIM3 axis in macrophages in TC. Combined targeting of the TIM3 and PD1 pathway in an immunocompetent mouse model of ATC led to a significant reduction in tumor growth. Together, these findings highlight TIM3 as a promising immunotherapeutic target in TC, with the potential to suppress macrophage-mediated pro-tumor activity while enhancing T-cell-driven anti-tumor immunity within the thyroid TME. © 2026 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. This article has been contributed to by U.S. Government employees and their work is in the public domain in the USA.© 2026 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. This article has been contributed to by U.S. Government employees and their work is in the public domain in the USA.
Membrane-bound neuropilin-1 (Nrp-1) has been implicated as a regulator of insulin resistance-related lipid metabolism, but little is known about its circulating form, soluble Nrp-1 (sNrp-1), in a metabolic context. Here we investigated the association between plasma levels of sNrp-1 and metabolic variables in 501 participants from the Prospective investigation of Obesity, Energy and Metabolism (POEM) study. Metabolic phenotyping included blood sampling, dual energy X-ray absorptiometry scan, magnetic resonance imaging for fat distribution, and a glucose tolerance test. Associations were examined using linear regression models and Spearman's rank correlation. Plasma sNrp-1 levels were inversely associated with levels of total fatty acids, triglycerides and lactate, and positively associated with markers of insulin sensitivity. In human Simpson-Golabi-Behmel Syndrome (SGBS) adipocytes, we showed that treatment with recombinant Nrp-1 reduced phosphorylation of hormone-sensitive lipase in the basal state and attenuated isoproterenol-stimulated glycerol release, a measure of total lipolytic activity. Based on these findings, we thus postulate that sNrp-1-mediated suppression of lipolysis could explain our observed association between plasma sNrp-1 and a favorable lipid profile in humans. Further studies are warranted to establish causality and to clarify the role of sNrp-1 in promoting insulin sensitivity in human adipose tissue.© 2026. The Author(s).
Fibroblasts are linked to stress responses in a broad number of diseases. Here, we used immortalized mouse embryonic fibroblasts (iMEFs) to elucidate their signaling behavior in response to proinflammatory lipopolysaccharides (LPS) and angiotensin II (Ang-II). To test for the role of the mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC), iMEFs were cultured in glucose- and galactose-containing media promoting glycolysis and mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, respectively. In addition, we used alternative oxidase (AOX), a ubiquinol oxidoreductase that serves as a naturally evolved rescue mechanism in case of ETC disruption. We found that within 24 h of treatment, LPS upregulated a number of proinflammatory genes, namely Tlr4, Il6, Tgfb1, Nlrp3, Casp1, and Il1b; largely, the effect was more pronounced in galactose-containing media and attenuated by AOX. The increase in transcripts resulted partly in elevated cytokine secretion. Twenty-four hours of Ang-II treatment also induced these genes, albeit to a lesser degree and less sensitive to AOX. Cellular oxygen consumption rates (OCRs) were higher in galactose media but remained unaffected by either stimulus. Our results suggest that fibroblasts undergo a similar proinflammatory phenotypic shift in response to different stressors. This response is shaped by ETC activity, which, surprisingly, is not reflected in altered OCRs.© 2026. The Author(s).
Classic Hodgkin lymphoma (CHL) is a highly curable disease. However, a subset of patients develops relapsed/refractory disease, underscoring the need for predictors of treatment response. Although immune-checkpoint inhibitors have improved outcomes, many patients still experience suboptimal responses. A deeper understanding of the CHL transcriptomic landscape may improve patient stratification and guide treatment approaches. Targeted mRNA-NGS was performed on formalin-fixed paraffine-embedded CHL-tissue using the HTG EdgeSeq Precision Immune-Oncology Panel (1,392 genes) in treatment-naive and post-chemotherapy relapsed treated with nivolumab-based protocols. Differential gene expression and pathway enrichment analyses were conducted to characterize tumor-intrinsic, and microenvironmental features associated with disease biology and treatment response. Across all CHL samples (n = 25) we observed overexpression of immune-checkpoint and immunoregulatory genes (CD274, CTLA-4, IL6, IL13), and markers of macrophage-rich/matrix-remodeling microenvironment (CD163, MMP2, TIMP1), alongside loss of B-cell identity and tumor suppression programs. Pathways analysis revealed activation of IL6/JAK/STAT3, TNF-α/NF-κB, KRAS-UP, and Inflammatory response, with reduced proliferative and metabolic activity. Immunotherapy non-responders, both in the overall (n = 5; 20%), and the treatment-naïve CHL (n = 2; 12%) displayed a proliferative, cytokine-activated, and immunologically cold phenotype. This includes shared overexpression of FADD, NFKB1, and TGFB1 and downregulation of SMAD7, together with activation of E2F, G2M, MYC, and PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathways and negative enrichment of TNF-α/NF-κB, IL6/JAK/STAT3, and Inflammatory response. Post-chemotherapy relapsed (n = 8) exhibited adaptative immunoregulatory and stress response signatures (IL15, TNFSF18, MAPK8, FUT4), along with reduced immune activation and loss of tumor-suppressor signaling. This study highlights the biological complexity and transcriptional diversity underlying CHL and its tumor microenvironment. Immunotherapy non-responders exhibited an "oncogene-driven" transcriptional profile independent of previous treatment status, whereas responders showed an "inflammatory immune-scape" phenotype, offering insight into mechanisms of resistance. Despite the limited sample size, these findings provide a foundation for larger precision-focused studies aimed at improving outcomes in CHL.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Microglia play a key role in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and their increased heterogeneity likely affects disease progression. We previously identified distinct microglial signatures that were enriched in AD donors and associated with amyloid and tau, respectively. Here we generated a snRNAseq dataset from postmortem control and AD cases and analyzed alterations in cell-cell communication pathways that might be relevant to AD pathophysiology. One signaling pathway perturbed in AD cases involved SPP1, and while this pathway was also present in control samples, microglia-microglia SPP1 signaling was restricted to AD donors. Further analyses within microglia-microglia signaling predict AD-specific induction of GAS6-AXL signaling (from inflammatory and ribosomal microglia), and SPP1-ITGAV/ITGB5 signaling (from disease-associated and inflammatory microglia, among others). Together, these findings might in part explain the increased microglia phagocytic profile described in AD. RNAscope confirmed enrichment of SPP1 expressing microglia near amyloid plaques in AD brain tissue samples. These data indicate altered cellular communications between microglia in the AD brain.© 2026 The Author(s). GLIA published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Myeloid/lymphoid neoplasms with tyrosine kinase fusions are rare but important because many are highly sensitive to targeted therapy. PDGFRB rearrangements are well-established drivers, whereas TPM3 is an exceptionally rare fusion partner.We performed longitudinal analysis of an elderly patient with hypereosinophilia, integrating morphology, cytogenetics, PDGFRB break-apart FISH, whole-transcriptome RNA sequencing, optical genome mapping, targeted myeloid DNA sequencing and exploratory fusion-specific RT-qPCR.A balanced t(1;5)(q21;q33) with PDGFRB rearrangement in 70% of nuclei was identified at diagnosis. RNA sequencing detected an in-frame TPM3 exon 8-PDGFRB exon 11 fusion, and optical genome mapping confirmed the balanced rearrangement. Low-dose imatinib induced durable haematologic and cytogenetic remission of the fusion-driven eosinophilic component. Serial DNA sequencing identified diagnostic ASXL1, EZH2 and low-level SRSF2 abnormalities that persisted during remission, followed by acquisition or expansion of SETBP1, CSF3R, ETNK1 and a distinct SRSF2 variant during late neutrophilic progression, without re-emergence of the PDGFRB rearrangement.TPM3::PDGFRB is a rare but actionable PDGFRB fusion. Durable suppression of the fusion-positive eosinophilic component was followed by a late CNL-like neutrophilic phase. The clonal relationship between these phases remains unresolved. Integrated longitudinal fusion testing and myeloid mutational profiling are therefore essential to characterize disease complexity.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Tumor immune barriers (TIBs) are spatially organized stromal-immune niches that restrict lymphocyte entry. To explain persistent immune-checkpoint blockade (ICB) resistance in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC), we mapped TIBs and defined a peritumoral variant built from POSTN+ cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) interlaced with APOE+ tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs). This niche excluded CD8+ T cells from tumor cores, and was enriched in poor-prognosis, ICB-refractory patients. Spatial transcriptomics and single-cell profiling showed TIB regions enriched for extracellular-matrix remodeling, immunosuppressive ligand-receptor circuits, and metabolic reprogramming. Mechanistically, tumor-derived TGF-β1 activated CAFs via SMAD signaling, inducing POSTN and recruiting APOE+TAMs through integrin and chemokine axes. TAMs secreted TGF-β1 and VEGFA, amplifying stromal programs and sustaining exclusion. Blocking POSTN reprogrammed macrophages, reduced matrix-mediated suppression, and restored CD8+ infiltration. In vivo, POSTN inhibition combined with ICB boosted antitumor immunity, reduced tumor burden, and reversed immunosuppressive infiltration, nominating POSTN-directed strategies to potentiate ICB.
Angiogenesis plays a significant role in the progression of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). The RNA-binding protein IGF2BP3 is associated with fibrosis and angiogenesis, but its role in IPF angiogenesis remain unclear. Additionally, Tianlongjie (TL) has been confirmed to inhibit IPF progression, but the role of IGF2BP3 in this process also needs to be elucidated. A bleomycin (BLM)-induced pulmonary fibrosis rat model was established via intratracheal instillation of BLM, and an angiogenesis cell model was constructed by treating HPMVECs with VEGF165. HE staining was used to detect lung tissue injury. Masson staining, HYP content measurement, Western blot, and Immunohistochemistry assessed to evaluate fibrosis and angiogenesis progression. EdU staining was employed to detect cell proliferation. RIP-qPCR and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed to examine the interaction between IGF2BP3 and HIF-1α. IGF2BP3 was abnormally highly expressed in pulmonary fibrosis. IGF2BP3 knockdown reduced the expression of HYP, COL-I, COL-III, α-SMA, CD31, CD34, and VEGFA in pulmonary fibrosis rat lung tissues, increased E-cadherin expression, and inhibited pulmonary fibrosis progression and microvascular formation in rats. In vitro, IGF2BP3 knockdown suppressed cell proliferation, migration and vascular endothelial cell angiogenesis. Mechanistically, IGF2BP3 may promote HIF-1α stability through m6A modification, and HIF-1α overexpression attenuated the inhibitory effect of IGF2BP3 knockdown on angiogenesis. Furthermore, TL treatment was associated with reduced fibrosis and lower IGF2BP3/HIF-1α expression. In conclusion, IGF2BP3 can promote pulmonary fibrosis-related angiogenesis by stabilizing HIF-1α expression, and TL inhibits IGF2BP3 and HIF-1α expression, angiogenesis and fibrosis progression in pulmonary fibrosis rats.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Hypoxia is a defining feature of the tumor microenvironment and a key driver of malignant progression through transcriptional reprogramming of metabolic, angiogenic, and survival pathways. In this study, hypoxia-induced molecular responses were investigated in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HepG2) and breast adenocarcinoma (MCF-7) cells using cobalt(II) chloride (CoCl2) as a hypoxia mimetic. Cell viability profiling was performed to determine the optimal experimental concentration, followed by quantitative PCR analysis of hypoxia-related genes and miRNA-gene interaction network analysis. Cell viability profiling identified 100 µM CoCl2 as the optimal condition for downstream analyses. Quantitative PCR revealed robust induction of HIF-1α in both cell lines, indicating activation of hypoxic signaling. However, downstream responses differed markedly between cell types. MCF-7 cells exhibited significant upregulation of SLC2A1 and increased VEGFA and NFKB1 expression, consistent with activation of glycolytic and pro-angiogenic pathways. In contrast, HepG2 cells showed limited downstream transcriptional engagement despite elevated HIF1A expression. Furthermore, miRNA-gene interaction analysis revealed a dense regulatory network in MCF-7 cells, whereas HepG2 cells displayed a more restricted, VEGFA-centered miRNA profile. These findings demonstrate that chemical hypoxia induces cell-type-specific transcriptional and post-transcriptional responses in breast and liver cancer cells. The results suggest that miRNA-mediated regulation may contribute to differential tumor adaptation to hypoxic stress and highlight the importance of cellular context in hypoxia-associated signaling pathways.
Distal necrosis remains a common postoperative complication of perforator flaps, largely due to insufficient perfusion and inadequate angiogenesis in ischemic flap tissue. Transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) has been implicated in vascular regulation through calcium-dependent signaling pathways; however, whether pharmacological blockade of TRPV1 affects angiogenesis in perforator flaps remains unclear. In this study, capsazepine was used to pharmacologically block TRPV1 in a rat perforator flap model. The results showed that capsazepine treatment significantly reduced flap survival compared with vehicle treatment (64.5 ± 1.2 % vs. 79.0 ± 1.7 %) and impaired angiogenesis, as indicated by reduced vascular density and decreased expression of VEGF-A, eNOS, and MMP2. Capsazepine also reduced the phosphorylation of CaMKII, CaMKKβ, and AMPK, together with decreased Beclin1 expression, a reduced LC3-II/I ratio, and induced pro-apoptotic changes, as evidenced by increased Bax and cleaved caspase-3 expression and decreased Bcl-2 expression. Notably, pharmacological enhancement of autophagy with rapamycin reduced Bax expression and increased MMP2 expression. Collectively, these findings indicate that capsazepine-mediated TRPV1 blockade impairs perforator flap survival and angiogenesis, at least in part, through reduced CaMKII/CaMKKβ/AMPK activation and attenuation of autophagy. The rapamycin rescue findings position autophagy as an important functional intermediary between TRPV1-associated signaling and the regulation of apoptosis and angiogenesis in perforator flaps.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Lung cancer remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, highlighting the urgent need for effective and selective therapeutic agents. In this study, novel phenylalanine and tryptophan-derived hydrazone hybrids (9a-h and 10a-h) against lung cancer were designed, synthesized and characterized via analytic and spectral methods (FT-IR, 1H NMR, 13C NMR APT, and LC-MS/HR-MS). Cytotoxic activities of synthesized compounds were evaluated against human non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) (A549 and PC9) cells and human healthy lung epithelial BEAS-2B cells. Among the hydrazone hybrids, phenylalanine derivative compound 9d exhibited the most potent and selective cytotoxic effect against NSCLC cells, with IC50 values of 15.60 μM for A549 and 22.49 μM for PC9, and high selectivity indices (SI = 76.92 and 53.36, respectively). Mechanistic studies revealed that these compounds induce apoptosis in A549 cells, with a concomitant decrease in VEGF-A levels and downregulation of VEGFR-1 and 2 expression; this indicates a direct modulation of the tumor-autonomous VEGF signaling axis. Additionally, the compounds significantly activated caspase-3/7, 8, and 9 enzymes, confirming the triggering of both intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic pathways. Furthermore, intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation and mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) depolarization were distinctly induced by compounds 10d and 10g, suggesting an additional mitochondrial stress-mediated mechanism of action within this series. Molecular docking simulations were performed to evaluate binding affinity within the VEGFR-2 active site. In vitro and in silico results identified compound 9d as a promising lead structure for further optimization of selective lung cancer therapeutics. Future studies were targeted at further optimizing drug-like properties and exploring downstream signaling kinetics.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a valuable non-human primate model organism with a long history of use in biomedical research, including investigating diseases with an immune component. However, prior to this effort, there has been a lack of sufficiently validated tools to quantify inflammatory markers in the common marmoset using a multiplex approach. We provide a cross-species reactivity validation of a human-specific multiplex analysis strategy that allows for the assessment of 20 distinct inflammatory analytes in a small volume of plasma isolated from common marmoset blood. We used this novel approach to perform an assessment of the impact of sex as a biological variable on a subset of these inflammatory analytes. We found that endogenous plasma levels of the following analytes are not significantly different between female and male marmosets: CRP, ICAM-1, VCAM-1, IL-13, IL-8, MIP-1β, IFN-g, IL-4, VEGF-A, FLT-1, and bFGF. These findings demonstrate the utility of our validated method for quantifying marmoset inflammatory markers.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Diffuse Gastric Cancer (DGC) is an aggressive subtype with a poor prognosis and a lack of specific biomarkers, representing a critical unmet need in oncology. This study aimed to elucidate the key molecular drivers of DGC by integrating RNA-seq data with a multi-faceted bioinformatics approach.We analyzed RNA-seq data from young-onset DGC and normal tissues (GSE113255, GSE122401). Machine learning (ML) feature selection (ReliefF algorithm) was used to prioritize genes, followed by protein-protein interaction network analysis to identify hub genes. Their roles were further investigated through Gene Ontology, KEGG pathway analysis, tumor microenvironment immune infiltration, miRNA-regulatory network analysis, transcription factor prediction, and computational drug repurposing analyses.Our ML‑driven approach identified seven hub genes central to DGC pathogenesis including CCL5, CXCR4, MMP9, FOXP3, IL18, TNFSF11, and TNFSF13B. Among these, three prioritized core hub genes (CXCR4, MMP9, and TNFSF13B) were selected based on statistically significant overexpression and complementary functional roles. Specifically, CXCR4 showed a Fold Change of 3.12 (Log2FC = 1.64, FDR = 0.01), MMP9 exhibited the highest magnitude of upregulation (Fold Change = 16.58, Log2FC = 4.05), and TNFSF13B demonstrated the most statistically significant differential expression (Fold Change = 2.32, Log2FC = 1.21, FDR < 0.000001). High CXCR4 expression was identified as a potential prognostic indicator associated with poorer overall survival in the TCGA‑STAD cohort (HR = 1.5, p = 0.0072). We delineated a core regulatory circuitry where NF‑κB (NFKB1/RELA) masterfully regulates the hub gene network. Drug repurposing analysis nominated several FDA‑approved agents, including the VEGF‑A inhibitor Bevacizumab, which indirectly suppresses CXCR4 and MMP9.This pilot study establishes a robust integrative framework that synergizes ML with network biology. It nominates CXCR4 and TNFSF13B as candidate therapeutic targets and highlights the potential of ML‑based feature selection for discovering biologically relevant, context‑dependent prognostic indicators in DGC. However, we emphasize that these findings are exploratory and hypothesis‑generating, requiring independent validation through experimental studies and larger cohorts before any clinical translation.Copyright: © 2026 Azni et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Early detection of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) in adults with metabolic dysfunction associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) remains a clinical challenge. Plasma proteomics provides a non-invasive tool for identifying individuals at elevated risk prior to symptom onset. We quantified 2911 plasma proteins in 17 375 OSA-free MASLD subjects from the UK Biobank (UKB). Participants were split into training and validation sets. Cox regression and Light Gradient Boosting Machine (LightGBM) with forward feature selection were used to identify and rank predictive proteins. Model performance was assessed by area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) in the validation set, and shapley additive explanations (SHAP) values were used to interpret feature contributions. Among 17 375 MASLD participants, 541 (3.1%) developed subsequent clinical diagnosis of OSA. Seven core proteins (FABP4, PON3, RTN4R, KIAA0319, CFC1, TFRC, CST3) were identified and combined into a protein risk score (ProRS). The ProRS stratified high- and low-risk individuals with C-index 0.727 and 10-year AUC 0.727, outperforming the clinical risk score (C-index 0.548). Integration with clinical factors further improved discrimination (C-index 0.765, 10-year AUC 0.765) and net benefit. The plasma protein-based ProRS predicts future OSA in MASLD and enhances risk stratification beyond clinical variables, supporting its potential for early, non-invasive screening and targeted intervention.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
In acute myeloid leukemia (AML), therapeutic resistance is intimately linked to vascular microenvironment remodeling; however, the initiating molecular determinants remain elusive. Here, we identified exosomal pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) as a pivotal mediator of this pathogenic process. PKM2 was abundantly present in AML-derived exosomes and transferred to human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), eliciting metabolic reprogramming characterized by enhanced glycolysis and angiogenic activation. Mechanistically, PKM2 knockdown in AML cells substantially attenuated exosome-induced endothelial migration and tube formation, whereas ectopic PKM2 overexpression in endothelial cells potentiated pro-angiogenic phenotypes. In NOD/SCID mouse xenograft, AML-derived exosomes promoted microvascular remodeling and accelerated disease progression, effects that were abrogated by the angiogenesis inhibitor endostatin. This vascular remodeling coincided with diminished cytarabine (Ara-C) sensitivity, indicative of a chemoprotective microenvironment. Consistently, in a systemic AML model, pharmacological PKM2 inhibition disrupted the vascular niche, suppressed angiogenesis, and restored Ara-C chemosensitivity. Clinically, PKM2 expression correlated positively with VEGFA and HIF-1α levels, and exosomes derived from AML patients with elevated PKM2 conferred enhanced tube-forming capacity upon endothelial cells. Collectively, these findings establish exosomal PKM2 as a critical regulator of the chemoprotective vascular niche in AML and underscore its translational potential as a therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is highly prevalent and aggressive in China, with conventional therapies causing significant morbidity. Photodynamic therapy (PDT) kills tumor cells via photosensitizer-mediated reactive oxygen species (ROS), representing an effective tumor treatment. However, its efficacy is severely impaired by the hypoxic tumor microenvironment (TME). In this study, we synthesized multifunctional carbon dots (SN-CDs) from the traditional Chinese herb Solanum nigrum via hydrothermal method. SN-CDs (particle size: 1.9 ± 0.3 nm) are rich in hydroxyl and amino groups, with an oxygen generation rate of approximately 2.61 ppm/min in vitro. They can efficiently decompose endogenous hydrogen peroxide in the tumor microenvironment, thereby alleviating tumor hypoxia. Under 635 nm laser irradiation, they generate ROS (1O2, ·OH). In vitro, SN-CDs induce apoptosis in ESCC cells (EC9706/EC109) and regulate HIF-1 pathway (downregulate VEGFA, upregulate CDKN1B). In vivo, SN-CD-mediated PDT reduces ESCC xenograft volume by 60% with no obvious systemic toxicity observed in vivo. Thus, SN-CDs are a natural, multifunctional nanoplatform that alleviates tumor hypoxia to enhance PDT efficacy, promising for minimally invasive ESCC treatment.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Heterotopic pancreas (HP) is a rare congenital anomaly characterized by pancreatic tissue lacking anatomical and vascular continuity with the orthotopic pancreas. Although usually asymptomatic and incidentally diagnosed, HP may rarely become clinically significant due to inflammation, ulceration, bleeding, obstruction, or gastrointestinal perforation. Systemic conditions such as amyloidosis, chronic kidney disease (CKD), and chronic hemodialysis may further increase gastrointestinal vulnerability through vascular fragility, impaired mucosal healing, and recurrent splanchnic hypoperfusion. We present the case of a patient with systemic amyloidosis and end-stage CKD on maintenance hemodialysis through a recently created brachial-basilic arteriovenous fistula who developed progressive gastrointestinal symptoms followed by acute abdomen. Initial manifestations included nausea and projectile vomiting one day after fistula creation, followed by progressive right upper quadrant abdominal pain radiating to the lumbar region, semiliquid bowel movements, dehydration, and hemodynamic instability. Imaging studies suggested a perforated viscus with intra-abdominal inflammatory changes. Emergency exploratory laparotomy revealed perforation at the antro-duodenal junction with diffuse fibrinous peritonitis and multiple cystic peritoneal lesions suspicious for malignant disease. Surgical management consisted of segmental gastroduodenal resection, extensive peritoneal lavage, targeted peritoneal biopsies, cholecystectomy, and appendectomy. Histopathological examination demonstrated heterotopic pancreatic tissue associated with ulceration and perforation. Immunohistochemistry of the peritoneal lesions showed positivity for WT1 and calretinin, consistent with benign peritoneal inclusion cysts. This case highlights an exceptionally rare cause of gastrointestinal perforation and underscores the importance of integrating clinical evolution, systemic comorbidities, intraoperative findings, pathology, and immunohistochemistry into surgical decision-making. The coexistence of amyloidosis, CKD, and hemodialysis-related hypoperfusion likely contributed synergistically to mucosal vulnerability and perforation.Copyright © 2026, Sordia Marquez et al.
BACKGROUND Primary clear cell carcinoma of the colon is an exceptionally rare condition. It is still uncertain whether this carcinoma represents a separate biological category or simply a variant of typical colorectal cancer. From a diagnostic standpoint, the presence of clear cell morphology introduces significant challenges, as similar features can be observed in various other carcinomas, including renal, ovarian, and endometrial carcinoma. Typically, primary colorectal tumors demonstrate positivity for markers such as CK20 and CDX2, supporting intestinal origin. CASE REPORT We present a case of primary clear cell carcinoma of the sigmoid colon, with no adenoma component, in a 69-year-old woman. The tumor was detected on routine bowel screening colonoscopy, and the patient underwent anterior resection of a pT3N2b sigmoid tumor with prophylactic oophorectomy and salpingectomy. In contrast to the positivity for intestinal-origin markers typically seen in primary colorectal tumors, in this case, the histopathological and immunohistochemical analyses revealed that the tumor was positive for AMACR, CK7, and PAX 8 and negative for WT1, ER, PR, P16, CD10, CDX2, and CK20. These results were consistent with colonic clear cell carcinoma. CONCLUSIONS Specific data on colorectal clear cell carcinoma in Ireland and worldwide are limited. In academic literature, few cases have been documented. The presence of clear cell morphology in colon tumors presents significant diagnostic challenges, necessitating careful radiological and histopathological evaluation, which should be correlated with the patient's clinical history. This case was documented due to the extreme rarity of this condition and the diagnostic difficulties it poses, particularly in distinguishing clear cell carcinoma of the colon from conventional adenocarcinoma.
Desmoplastic small round cell tumor (DSRCT) is an extremely rare and highly aggressive soft-tissue sarcoma that predominantly affects adolescents and young male patients. This malignancy is defined by the t(11;22) (p13;q12) chromosomal translocation, which generates the EWSR1-WT1 fusion gene. Owing to its rarity and aggressive clinical behavior, standardized treatment strategies for DSRCT have not yet been established.A 13-year-old boy presented with increased defecation frequency and progressive weight loss. Serum cancer antigen 125 (CA125) levels were markedly elevated at 187.00 U/mL. Contrast-enhanced abdominal computed tomography (CT) revealed a large heterogeneous mass with calcifications in the left epigastrium, invading the adjacent intestinal loops. CT-guided biopsy combined with immunohistochemical staining demonstrated positive expression of desmin, cytokeratin pan (CKpan), and vimentin in the tumor. Targeted next-generation sequencing (NGS) confirmed the presence of EWSR1-WT1 fusion, supporting the diagnosis of DSRCT. The patient received comprehensive multimodal treatment, including neoadjuvant chemotherapy, cytoreductive surgery, multiple lines of systemic chemotherapy, combined chemoimmunotherapy, and tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy. Nevertheless, the tumor relapsed repeatedly, and chemotherapy resistance gradually emerged during sequential treatment.We report a pediatric case of intra-abdominal DSRCT harboring EWSR1-WT1 fusion. The patient was diagnosed with an advanced stage disease at the initial presentation. Immunohistochemical and molecular analyses revealed a WT1-negative phenotype and dual EWSR1-WT1 fusion breakpoints, which are atypical findings compared with most reported DSRCT cases. Despite these unusual molecular features, a definitive diagnosis of DSRCT was established. The tumor inevitably progressed despite intensive multimodal intervention. This case further demonstrates the highly aggressive nature of DSRCT, which is associated with a high risk of local recurrence and distant metastasis. Novel systemic and targeted therapies are urgently needed to improve the clinical outcomes of affected patients.Copyright © 2026 Li, Jiang, Tan and Deng.
Primary ovarian synovial sarcoma is an exceedingly rare malignancy that may mimic more common ovarian tumors, particularly in adolescents, posing significant diagnostic challenges.A 14-year-old girl presented with progressive abdominal distension and respiratory compromise. Imaging revealed a large mixed solid-cystic adnexal mass with ascites and pleural effusion. Serum CA-125 was elevated, while AFP and CEA were normal. The patient underwent right salpingo-oophorectomy and omentectomy. Histopathology showed a monophasic spindle cell neoplasm with focal cartilaginous differentiation. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated diffuse nuclear positivity for SS18 and TLE1, with co-expression of BCL-2, CD99, and EMA, while inhibin, calretinin, and WT-1 were negative. The positive SS18 immunohistochemical staining provided additional diagnostic confirmation of synovial sarcoma, supporting the diagnosis in conjunction with the characteristic histopathologic findings. The patient deteriorated rapidly and died before initiation of chemotherapy.Primary ovarian synovial sarcoma is a rare and aggressive tumor that can mimic germ cell neoplasms. Accurate diagnosis requires careful integration of histopathology and immunohistochemistry. Although molecular confirmation remains the diagnostic gold standard, SS18 fusion-specific immunohistochemistry provides a reliable diagnostic surrogate when molecular testing is unavailable.© 2026 The Authors.
Several gonadal neoplasms harbor recurrent CTNNB1 mutations, including sex cord-stromal tumors, such as Sertoli cell tumor, NOS and gonadal signet ring stromal tumor, ovarian and testicular microcystic stromal tumor (MCST), in addition to gonadal solid pseudopapillary neoplasms (SPN). Despite being classified as separate entities, they have notable morphologic and immunophenotypic similarities. Of note, gonadal SPNs have been regarded as the counterparts of pancreatic SPN, but their relationship remains poorly understood. We analyzed 28 gonadal sex cord-stromal tumors, including testicular Sertoli cell tumors NOS (n=8), MCSTs (n=2), and signet ring stromal tumor (n=6), ovarian MCSTs (n=11), signet ring stromal tumor (n=1), together with ovarian SPNs (n=4) and pancreatic SPNs (n=9). Histologic features were reviewed, and immunohistochemistry for SF-1, SOX9, WT1, β-catenin, inhibin, and calretinin was performed. CTNNB1 mutation status was assessed by NGS in selected cases. DNA methylation profiling was performed successfully in 25 tumors (61%). All gonadal tumors showed overlapping morphologic features, comprising variable combinations of tubular, solid, signet ring and microcystic patterns, although the abundance of individual patterns varied between entities. Pancreatic SPNs showed similar cytologic features to gonadal tumors and commonly exhibited solid and pseudopapillary architecture with frequent cystic structures but lacked true tubular differentiation. Immunohistochemically, SF-1 expression was present in 27/31 (87%) tested gonadal tumors whereas all pancreatic SPNs were negative (4/4). Diffuse nuclear β-catenin expression was identified in all evaluable gonadal and pancreatic tumors (35/35, 100%). SOX9 and WT1 were expressed in 19/21 (90%) and 24/25 (96%) of gonadal tumors, respectively. In contrast, pancreatic SPNs were negative for SF-1 and WT1 in all evaluable cases (4/4 each), with only a single case showing focal SOX9 positivity. Inhibin and calretinin expression was largely absent in gonadal tumors, with only rare focal or weak positivity (3 cases) and a single ovarian MCST showing diffuse calretinin expression. Methylation analysis demonstrated closely related epigenetic profiles among gonadal CTNNB1-driven tumors, regardless of their histologic classification, whereas pancreatic SPNs formed a separate cluster. These findings indicate that several CTNNB1-driven tumors of the gonads currently classified as different entities share morphologic, immunophenotypic, and epigenetic features, supporting the concept that they represent variations within the same spectrum. Despite some morphologic overlap, these gonadal tumors are different from pancreatic SPN based on DNA methylation signatures.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The United States Food and Drug Administration recently expanded approval of the 68 mg radiopaque etonogestrel (ENG) contraceptive implant (Nexplanon, Organon, Oss, The Netherlands) from three years to five years, based on clinical trial data showing no pregnancies in years four or five of use. We present two cases of pregnancy in year four of implant use.Two patients presented to our medical center's emergency department with ENG implants in situ and were found to have positive pregnancy tests. The first patient had her implant placed three years and one month prior to presentation, and had an intrauterine pregnancy. The second patient had her implant placed three years and five months prior to presentation, and had a tubal ectopic pregnancy.The first patient underwent a medical termination of pregnancy and implant removal and replacement three days after initial presentation. Her original implant was removed intact. The second patient underwent a laparoscopic right salpingectomy and implant removal and replacement one day after initial presentation. Her original implant was removed intact.These cases suggest that both intrauterine and ectopic pregnancies can occur in year four of ENG implant use. Further work should be conducted to determine risk factors for implant failure, especially in years four and five of use.
Pleural mesothelioma (PM) is an aggressive cancer with limited therapeutic options and poor prognosis, necessitating comprehensive model systems for mechanistic studies and drug discovery.Tumor cells were isolated from malignant pleural effusion of PM patients and subjected to primary culture and continuous passaging. Cell lines were successfully established after more than 40 continuous passages in vitro. Cell identification included morphological analysis, species identification, short tandem repeat (STR) profiling, mycoplasma detection, in vitro proliferation assays, in vivo tumorigenicity testing in NOD/SCID mice, and immunohistochemical characterization. Genomic landscapes and transcriptomic profiling were defined by whole-exome, whole-genome sequencing, and RNA-sequencing.Three Chinese-derived pleural mesothelioma cell lines (PUMC-MESO1, PUMC-MESO3, and PUMC-MESO4) were successfully established. All three cell lines exhibited epithelioid morphology with adherent growth patterns. Upon subcutaneous transplantation into NOD/SCID mice, PUMC-MESO1 and PUMC-MESO4 demonstrated tumorigenicity, while PUMC-MESO3 remained non-tumorigenic after 3 months of observation. Histopathological examination confirmed their mesothelioma origin through positive staining for mesothelial markers including calretinin, WT-1, and D2-40. Genomic analysis revealed characteristic PM genomic alterations including mutations in BAP1, NF2, and TP53, along with CDKN2A deletions. Transcriptomic analyses revealed heterogeneous molecular features among the three cell lines. Although the PUMC-MESO cell lines displayed distinct clustering patterns relative to the CCLE mesothelioma cohort, each retained transcriptomic similarities to specific established mesothelioma models. Drug sensitivity assays further demonstrated heterogeneous responses to standard therapeutic agents.This study reports the establishment and characterization of three novel PM cell lines. These models recapitulate key aspects of PM biology, exhibit diverse therapeutic responses, and provide a valuable new resource for investigating disease mechanisms and advancing precision oncology research.© 2026 The Author(s). Thoracic Cancer published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Left ventricular non-compaction (LVNC) is a genetically heterogeneous cardiomyopathy linked to sarcomeric and cytoskeletal genes, yet only one case has previously been associated with a troponin I (TNNI3) variant. Our case report describes the exceptionally rare coexistence of LVNC, a novel TNNI3 variant, and a hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (hEDS) phenotype, genetically unrelated to TNNI3, resulting in a distinct clinical presentation.A 17-year-old female with joint hypermobility, chronic musculoskeletal pain, and a strong maternal history of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS) presented after a right shoulder subluxation. Screening echocardiogram unexpectedly revealed LVNC with mildly reduced systolic ventricular function. Cardiopulmonary exercise testing showed reduced peak VO2 and markedly elevated VE/VCO2 slope. Genetic testing identified a rare heterozygous TNNI3 variant of uncertain significance (c.318 G > C; p.K106N) within a conserved regulatory domain of cardiac troponin I, with no additional pathogenic variants in LVNC- or connective tissue-associated genes; cascade testing revealed the same variant in her mother.TNNI3-associated LVNC is extraordinarily rare. TNNI3 encodes cardiac troponin I, typically linked to hypertrophic and restrictive cardiomyopathy, occasionally dilated cardiomyopathy, and only rarely LVNC. LVNC has been reported in EDS almost exclusively in vascular EDS related to COL3A1, not in hEDS, adding further clinical distinctiveness. This case represents the first reported coexistence of LVNC with a TNNI3 variant in an adolescent with hEDS features and underscores the need for multimodal evaluation and family screening in patients with overlapping connective-tissue and autonomic phenotypes, rather than attributing LV hypertrabeculation to incidental or benign findings.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology.
The heterogeneity and complex tumor microenvironment of lung adenocarcinoma lead to poor prognosis. Autophagy, as a key cellular process, interacts with tumor immune infiltration and jointly affects the progression of lung adenocarcinoma, but its core regulatory genes and mechanisms are still unclear.This study integrated three lung adenocarcinoma transcriptome datasets from the GEO database and performed cross-analysis with the human autophagy gene set to screen for differentially expressed autophagy-related genes. Identify core prognostic genes by constructing protein interaction networks and combining them with machine learning algorithms (Cox regression, SHAP analysis). Use the independent dataset GSE68465 to validate the model through a combination of 100 algorithms. Further elucidate the function, cellular localization, and association with smoking risk of core genes through enrichment analysis, immune infiltration assessment, single-cell transcriptome analysis, and network toxicology.A total of 276 shared autophagy‑related differentially expressed genes were identified. Using machine learning, five core genes-ENG, CDH1, KLF4, IL6, and MMP9-were selected. In the independent validation cohort, the prognostic model based on these genes demonstrated strong diagnostic performance (AUC > 0.9). Enrichment analysis revealed that the core genes were significantly enriched in pathways such as cellular senescence, autophagy, and FoxO signaling. Immune infiltration analysis showed that M1 macrophages and naïve B cells were significantly upregulated in tumor tissues, whereas resting dendritic cells were downregulated. Single‑cell analysis identified specific expression of genes including CDH1 and TGFB1 in type II alveolar cells and immune cells. Network toxicology and molecular docking confirmed that nicotine, a major component of cigarette smoke, exhibits high‑affinity binding to the core genes CDH1, HIF1A, KLF4, TGFB1, and BCL2.This study successfully identified and validated a robust prognostic feature consisting of five autophagy-related genes. These genes play a key role in the development of lung adenocarcinoma by regulating the tumor immune microenvironment, cell communication, and responding to external risk factors, providing new potential targets for prognosis prediction and targeted therapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Orbital and ocular space-occupying lesions comprise a spectrum ranging from common to extremely rare entities. These neoplasms may be primary or secondary. The incidence of primary malignant orbital tumors has been reported to be 10 per 10 million per year. We report an incidental case of a tumor attached to right extraocular muscle in a 40-year male who was a victim of a road traffic accident and presented with abrasions on the left side of the face following a fall from a motor vehicle. Radiological examination (MRI brain and CT brain) showed an incidental well-circumscribed tumor attached to lateral rectus muscle of the right eye measuring 3 × 2 × 1 cm. Microscopy showed a nodular tumor with prominent Homer-Wright rosettes. The tumor was immune-positive for desmin and smooth muscle actin and immune-negative for MyoD1, myogenin, CD99, WT1, pancytokeratin, epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), synaptophysin, chromogranin, CD34, glial fibrillary acidic protein, and HMB45. NKX2.2 staining was inconclusive and the MIB-1 labeling index was approximately 10 to 12% in areas of highest proliferative activity. The possibility of neuroectodermal tumors, the solid variant of alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma, neuroblastoma, PEComa, desmoplastic small round cell tumor, and metastasis from a neuroendocrine tumor was ruled out, and a diagnosis of a round cell tumor with primitive neuroectodermal tumor-like morphology and myogenic differentiation was rendered. Interphase FISH testing for EWSR1 showed an EWSR1 gene rearrangement. As the biologic potential of such tumors is unknown, complete excision has been proposed as the treatment of choice. Adjuvant chemoradiation may be considered based on the presence of residual tumor or local spread. This case represents an entity belonging to the EWSR1 family with unusual morphology and an ambiguous immunoprofile. It is a classic example of cases that cannot be diagnosed without molecular techniques and highlights the limitations we face in this era of molecularly defined entities.Asian Congress of Neurological Surgeons. This is an open access article published by Thieme under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonDerivative-NonCommercial License, permitting copying and reproduction so long as the original work is given appropriate credit. Contents may not be used for commercial purposes, or adapted, remixed, transformed or built upon. ( https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/ ).
Multi-behavior recommendation leverages auxiliary behaviors as supplementary signals to identify the most commercially valuable latent target behaviors. While auxiliary behaviors provide valuable signals related to the target behavior, existing methods lack fine-grained alignment mechanisms between the target behavior and auxiliary behaviors. To address this limitation, we propose a Semantic-aligned Adversarial Diffusion Model for Multi-Behavior Recommendation (SADRec). Specifically, we first design an Adversarial Diffusion Model (ADM) with the target behavior as a discriminative anchor. ADM employs discriminative supervision to guide the reconstruction process, enabling auxiliary behaviors to adaptively identify key semantic dimensions and selectively preserve non-essential discrepancies when aligning with the target behavior, thereby achieving fine-grained and precise semantic calibration. Then, we introduce a Multi-level Negative Sampling mechanism (MNS) that extracts negative samples of multi-level hardness at specific time steps via the reverse process of the diffusion model and aligns them with the target behavior through multi-level graph contrastive learning, thereby jointly optimizing the reconstruction process and identifying auxiliary behavior signals that carry latent target behaviors. Finally, extensive experiments on three public multi-behavior datasets demonstrate that our SADRec outperforms state-of-the-art baselines, especially in alleviating data sparsity. Our datasets and source code are available https://github.com/sasdasdasdwew/SADRec.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This study evaluated long-term postoperative outcomes and complications after breast-conserving surgery (BCS) with acellular dermal matrix (ADM) insertion.We retrospectively reviewed the data of patients treated between July 2015 and August 2021. Patients who did not undergo postoperative follow-up were excluded. Clinical characteristics, treatment information, and postoperative complications were collected from the electronic medical records. Complications were classified as major (requiring hospitalization or surgical intervention) or minor (manageable in an outpatient setting). ADM removals were categorized as early (≤ 6 months postoperatively) or delayed (> 6 months).Among the 236 patients (median follow-up, 71.7 months), complications occurred in 119 (50.4%): 22 major (9.3%) and 97 minor (41.1%). Infection was the most common major complication (13/22, 59.2%), whereas seroma was the predominant minor complication (87/97, 89.7%). In univariate analysis, no clinicopathological or treatment-related factors were associated with major complications. ADM removal was performed in 28 patients (11.9%), including nine with local recurrence and 19 unrelated to recurrence (8.1%). Among the 19 nonrecurrent removals, 13 (68.4%) occurred > 6 months after surgery, most commonly due to infection (12/19, 63.2%).Complications after BCS with ADM insertion were common during the long-term follow-up. The 9.3% major complication rate and 8.1% reoperation rate for ADM removal are not negligible. These findings highlight the need for careful patient selection and long-term surveillance of patients undergoing BCS with ADM insertion.© The Authors 2026.
In patients with advanced cubital tunnel syndrome (CuTS), conventional surgical outcomes are often suboptimal due to the long distance required for nerve regeneration. The supercharged end-to-side anterior interosseous nerve to ulnar motor nerve transfer (referred to as SETS transfer) has been proposed to enhance reinnervation and accelerate recovery. This study aimed to evaluate the electrodiagnostic and clinical outcomes of SETS transfer in patients with advanced CuTS and to determine the time course of functional recovery.This prospective study included 11 patients with severe, non-traumatic CuTS (modified McGowan grade IIB or III) who underwent ulnar nerve decompression, subcutaneous anterior transposition, and SETS transfer. Electrodiagnostic studies were performed preoperatively and at 3, 6, and 12 months postoperatively, assessing compound muscle action potentials (CMAPs) of the abductor digiti minimi (ADM) and first dorsal interosseous muscles, sensory nerve action potentials (SNAPs) of the ulnar and dorsal ulnar cutaneous (DUC) nerves, and detection of nascent motor unit action potentials (MUAPs). Grip and key-pinch strength and Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand (DASH) scores were assessed preoperatively and at 12 months.The CMAP amplitude of the ADM significantly improved at the 12-month follow-up compared to the preoperative assessment (p = 0.004). Postoperative nascent MUAPs were observed in 8 patients, all of which appeared within 6 months. In contrast, among patients with no preoperative SNAP who had a postoperative response, most recorded their first SNAP at 12 months after surgery (5 of 6 for ulnar SNAP and 5 of 7 for DUC SNAP). Key-pinch strength and DASH scores improved significantly (p = 0.014 and p = 0.003, respectively), while grip strength showed no significant change (p = 0.142).SETS transfer may promote early reinnervation and improve intrinsic muscle function in patients with severe CuTS. Serial electrodiagnostic studies suggest that SETS transfer may contribute to motor recovery within the first 6 months postoperatively.Copyright © 2026 by The Korean Orthopaedic Association.
Cholesterol is a key membrane component that regulates G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) function, yet its molecular mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we combine chemical extraction of membrane sterols with functional signaling assays and single-molecule fluorescence resonance energy transfer (smFRET) to define how cholesterol controls activation of chemokine receptors. Reduction of membrane cholesterol in mammalian cells selectively decreased constitutive and agonist-induced signaling across CXCR1, CXCR2, CXCR4, while it activated ACKR3, and did not affect CXCR3, revealing receptor-specific dependence on membrane sterols. Mechanistically, cholesterol regulation partly required the conserved class A GPCR residue Trp 4.50 and shifted agonist-bound CXCR4 toward active conformational states, providing a molecular explanation for its functional effects. In contrast, replenishment with oxidized cholesterol species failed to restore receptor activity, distinguishing cholesterol from oxysterols as modulators of receptor activation. Our findings identify cholesterol as an allosteric regulator of chemokine receptors and suggest that oxysterols may reshape inflammatory signaling by selectively modulating GPCR activity.
F-waves are late motor responses traditionally elicited via supramaximal stimulation. However, submaximal stimulation may offer a more sensitive probe for assessing spinal motoneuron excitability. This study characterizes F-wave recruitment curves using graded submaximal stimulation across various intrinsic hand muscles.F-waves were recorded from the abductor pollicis brevis (APB), abductor digiti minimi (ADM), and first dorsal interosseous (FDI) in 15 healthy subjects (ages 35-78). Four stimulus intensities were employed-10%, 20%, 30%, and 100% of the maximal compound muscle action potential (CMAP) amplitude-with 20 stimuli delivered per intensity. Analysis focused on F-wave frequency, amplitude, and matched F-wave/CMAP ratios (F-wave/CMAPm), where the F-wave and CMAP were recorded at identical stimulus intensities.Most parameters correlated positively with stimulus intensity; however, F-wave/CMAPm consistently decreased as intensity increased. The ADM exhibited a distinct recruitment profile, with F-wave persistence rising steeply at low intensities and reaching near-saturation at 30%, while showing no significant amplitude differences between submaximal levels. In contrast, the APB and FDI displayed more linear recruitment patterns for both persistence and amplitude.Submaximal stimulation reliably elicits F-waves and reveals muscle-specific excitability profiles. The ADM's high excitability suggests a more readily recruitable motoneuron pool. Furthermore, the inverse relationship between F-wave/CMAPm and stimulus intensity suggests the early recruitment of larger, highly excitable Type II motoneurons. This refined recruitment curve approach may provide valuable insights into the "split-hand" phenomenon observed in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
Congenital heart defects (CHDs) comprise the most common congenital malformation affecting nearly 1% of all newborns. In individuals with sex chromosome aneuploidy syndromes, however, the prevalence reaches up to 50% of all livebirths. One commonality to these syndromes is a marked reduction in sex hormones, particularly androgens. Androgen receptor (Ar) insufficiency represents a culprit in the pathophysiology of adult onset cardiovascular disease and arrhythmia, but there are no reports regarding Ar function during heart development. This is surprising as androgens along with its nuclear receptor exist already during early development, even before gonads develop and become functional.We evaluated the role of the Ar during vertebrate heart development by generating loss-of function in zebrafish embryos via pharmacological inhibition, transient CRISPR/Cas9 treatment, or interference of splicing as well as murine cell culture.Attenuation of Ar function in zebrafish embryos prevents normal cardiac morphology and physiology as apparent by edema, bradycardia and arrhythmia. Molecularly, we identified increased abundance of adrenomedullin (Adm) 2a as a likely cause for the observed defects. Cellularly, these phenomena may be linked to impaired formation of proepicardial cells, which are reported to intermingle with cells of the conduction system and influence cardiac pacing.A disrupted Ar - Adm2 axis possibly contributes to the increased frequency of CHD in individuals suffering from sex chromosome aneuploidy syndrome.© 2026. The Author(s).
Donor-site management after anterolateral thigh (ALT) flap harvest is a significant yet underaddressed concern in reconstructive surgery for oral cancer. While xenogeneic acellular dermal matrix (Xeno-ADM) is common in soft-tissue repair, its efficacy for fascia lata reconstruction at the ALT donor site remains insufficiently characterized. This study aimed to assess the efficacy of xeno-ADM in fascia lata repair, focusing on compartment pressure, inflammatory and muscle injury biomarkers, and functional recovery.In this prospective, randomized, single-blind trial, 200 patients undergoing ALT flap reconstruction were allocated to Xeno-ADM repair (n = 100) or primary closure (n = 100). Primary endpoints included compartment pressure, inflammatory markers in drainage fluid, serum muscle injury biomarkers, and functional outcomes.The xeno-ADM group showed significantly lower compartment pressures throughout postoperative days (POD) 1-5. Inflammatory markers in drainage fluid (CRP on POD 3 and 5) and serum muscle injury biomarkers (creatine kinase on POD 1 and 5) were significantly lower in xeno-ADM group. Functional outcomes were superior in the Xeno-ADM group, with faster gait recovery, lower pain scores at POD 7, and better lower-limb function at the 1- and 6-month follow-ups. Drainage duration did not differ between groups. Stratified analyses revealed that the benefits of xeno-ADM were more pronounced in patients with defect width >3 cm or a body mass index ≥24 kg/m2.Xeno-ADM provides a safe and effective approach for fascia lata repair, reducing biomechanical and inflammatory burdens while enhancing functional recovery. These findings support a transition from simple structural closure toward functional donor-site reconstruction.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
As effluent total nitrogen (TN) limits become increasingly stringent, dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) is emerging as a structural capacity constraint in highly optimized industrial wastewater treatment systems because conventional nitrification-denitrification primarily targets inorganic nitrogen species. The challenge is particularly acute in the biotech industries, where DON could originate from residual proteins in fermentation broths, downstream purification losses, biomass washing, and alkaline stabilization. This study develops and validates an integrated modeling framework to predict effluent dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and DON under full-scale industrial conditions while preserving COD, N, P, and metal (S, Al, Ca, Mg, Na, K) mass balance consistency. The largest industrial wastewater treatment system in Northern Europe was simulated using an upstream-plantwide mechanistic framework integrating anaerobic digestion (ADM), activated sludge (ASM), and physicochemical (PCM) models. Process extensions representing alkaline-induced solubilization and conservative transport of soluble inert DOC/DON fractions were implemented. Calibration used a dedicated short-term measurement campaign (DataS) and reconciled plant-wide mass balances. A complementary multiple linear regression (MLR) layer, developed from 22 years of operational data (DataH), was integrated to strengthen long-term predictive robustness. Ten operational scenarios (S0-S9) were evaluated, including upstream DOC/DON redirection in ultrafiltration/reverse osmosis (UF/RO) retentate and/or spent biomass, and sludge-line management to avoid DOC and DON recirculation. The integrated framework reproduced plant-wide mass balances with < 13 % deviation across treatment units. Model predictions show that DOC and DON discharge patterns are strongly controlled by upstream and biosolids-line reconfiguration, with concentrations decreasing from 200 to 50 mg COD/L for DOC and from 11 to 4 mg N/L for DON across scenarios. The regression layer further confirmed prediction reliability with R2 > 0.79 between DOC/DON effluent concentrations and key operational drivers, including flow rates, COD loads, and alkaline stabilization intensity. Economic assessment indicates that avoiding DOC/DON recirculation can reduce operational expenditures (OPEX) by up to 13% (S8), and external retentate treatment may increase costs by up to 90%. Sustainability indicators further show that operational reconfiguration reshapes plant-wide resource use and environmental performance. In total, DON represents a critical structural constraint on the expansion of industrial wastewater treatment capacity. Unless DON formation is reduced through upstream or sludge-line reconfiguration, compliance constraints (DON < 5 mg N/L) will limit the plant's effective treatment capacity and narrow it to a point where capital-intensive tertiary treatments such as granular activated carbon (GAC) polishing may become unavoidable. Such measures could increase OPEX with a factor of three and add approximately 1000 tons CO2-eq/year GHG emissions. The proposed framework provides a robust decision-support tool for designing expansion strategies that balance regulatory compliance, economic performance, and environmental sustainability.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Fully autonomous apomixis with fertilization-independent embryo and endosperm development enables the production of clonal seeds to fix crop hybrid vigour. However, the mechanisms underlying autonomous endosperm development remain unclear. Here we show that TIE1 acts as a maternally expressed transcriptional repressor inhibiting autonomous endosperm. The disruption of four TIEs in tie1 tie2 tie3 tie4 (tieQ) mutants triggers the development of autonomous endosperm, recapitulating the phenotypes observed in fertilization-independent seeds (fis)-class mutants. TIE1 exhibits maternal genomic imprinting similar to MEDEA (MEA) that encodes a core component of the FIS-POLYCOMB REPRESSIVE COMPLEX 2 (PRC2). TIE1 recruits FIS-PRC2 to transcriptionally silence a subset of its target genes whose activation would otherwise trigger endosperm development in the absence of fertilization. Our findings reveal a maternally controlled brake mechanism that prevents autonomous endosperm development, providing both a molecular framework for understanding apomictic seed formation and a possible tool for engineering synthetic apomixis to fix heterosis in crops.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Proximal and extensive median nerve median nerve injuries cause profound disability, impairing daily activities and quality of life. Outcomes after autologous nerve grafting are often suboptimal, due to long regeneration distances and complex branching. Distal nerve transfers offer a more direct reconstructive approach.May combined distal nerve transfers (ECRB-AIN, SUP-FDS, ADM-TE, and DDN-PDN) restore hand function and quality of life in patients with proximal or extensive median nerve injuries?A retrospective series of 13 patients (9 males, 4 females; mean age 35 years (17-62)) who underwent distal nerve transfer procedure(s) between 2011 and 2022 for proximal or extensive median nerve injury. All patients were followed for at least 2 years with standardized pre- and postoperative assessment of motor function, grasp and pinch strength, thumb opposition (Kapandji score), and quality of life (PNSQoL).All patients initially presented with absent finger flexion (M0), of which: 11 achieved M4 recovery, while one reached M2 and M1. Grasp strength improved from 22.8% (0-45%) to 62.8% (13-87%), pinch strength from 27.5% (0-43%) to 62.0% (20-90%), Kapandji score from 4.2 (1-6) to 7.5 (2-10), and PNSQoL from 41.3 (30-47) to 67.4 (45-79). All improvements were statistically significant (p < 0.01).Distal nerve transfers provided consistent functional recovery, supporting their role as a primary reconstructive strategy in proximal median nerve injuries. Combined motor and sensory transfers yielded meaningful improvements in grasp, pinch, thumb opposition, and quality of life.© 2026 Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of EANS, the European Association of Neurosurgical Societies, EUROSPINE, the Spine Society of Europe.
DLL4-NOTCH1 signaling mediates juxtacrine communication between tip- and stalk-like endothelial cells during vascular sprouting, contributing to complementary aspects of endothelial function. Thus, simultaneous modulation of DLL4 and NOTCH1 may provide a strategy to broadly interfere with the endothelial functions involved in tumor angiogenesis. Accordingly, this study aimed to identify a novel natural compound capable of modulating DLL4-NOTCH1-mediated endothelial communication and to investigate how such modulation influences tumor angiogenesis and growth.We screened 66 natural compounds to identify those that suppress DLL4 and NOTCH1 signaling in endothelial cells. Using a dual-reporter system that combines a DLL4 promoter-driven reporter and a CSL luciferase reporter, we simultaneously assessed ligand-associated activity and downstream transcriptional output of the DLL4-NOTCH1 axis. We confirmed VEGF-induced target gene expression via Western blotting and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. We further performed in vitro angiogenesis assays and in vivo Lewis lung carcinoma (LLC) allograft tumor experiments.Among the 66 screened natural compounds, para-coumaric acid (p-CA) dose-dependently suppressed DLL4 transcription and NOTCH1 signaling activity in endothelial cells, with IC50 values of 4.57 and 8.34 µm, respectively. Furthermore, p-CA significantly suppressed VEGF-induced endothelial cell proliferation, migration, and tube formation. In the LLC allograft model, p-CA treatment suppressed tumor growth and vascular density, increased pericyte coverage, reduced tumor hypoxia, and enhanced CD3+ T-cell infiltration and tumor cell apoptosis.In summary, p-CA is a natural compound that functionally suppresses VEGF-driven DLL4-NOTCH1 signaling in endothelial cells, exhibiting strong anti-angiogenic effects and promoting functional vascular normalization, resulting in marked tumor suppression and enhanced antitumor immunity in vivo. These findings suggest that p-CA warrants further investigation as an anti-angiogenic compound for cancer therapy.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
The grain aphid, Sitobion avenae Fabricius (Hemiptera: Aphididae), is a vector of yellow dwarf viruses and an important pest of cereals. In a European context, it is the only cereal aphid known to have developed knockdown resistance (kdr). In this study, we genetically screened key regions of the voltage-gated sodium channel (VGSC) known to harbour resistance-conferring mutations. Specimens were sampled across multiple locations and years in Ireland, enabling detection of individuals carrying the L1014F mutation and screening for additional mutations, including those associated with super-kdr.The frequency of the L1014F substitution in samples from Irish suction towers is consistent with frequencies reported in other studies from Ireland and the UK, and we found no strong evidence of an increase in kdr frequency despite the greater reliance on pyrethroids. Importantly, the analysis identified two additional VGSC substitutions corresponding to M918L and L932F, which have been implicated in reduced pyrethroid sensitivity in other insect species. This is the first report globally of these mutations in S. avenae.We identified a super-kdr variant (M918L) and an L932F variant in the grain aphid S. avenae. Because these were detected in archived samples, their impact on in-field resistance in this species is currently unknown; however, based on observations in other aphid species, including cereal aphids, they likely influence resistance phenotypes. Regular monitoring of the incidence and spread of known and emerging insecticide-resistant clonal lineages is essential to preserve the effectiveness of our limited insecticide arsenal and to determine when field efficacy may be insufficient for pest control. © 2026 The Author(s). Pest Management Science published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Society of Chemical Industry.© 2026 The Author(s). Pest Management Science published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Society of Chemical Industry.
Tumor-induced manipulations of myelomonocytic differentiation have been widely reported. Here, we describe the elicitation of a tumor-supportive cell type in a T lymphoma model in mice. We observed that the development of T lymphoma coincided with the appearance of a lymphoma-associated monocytic cell type (LAM) of host origin accompanied by a diminished dendritic cell (DC) population. RNA-sequencing and cytometric analyses revealed that LAMs shared markers with both DCs and with resident macrophages, most closely resembling monocyte-derived DCs (moDCs). The numbers of T lymphoma cells were negatively affected by reducing LAMs suggesting a helper function of LAMs for tumor growth. LAMs expressed Notch ligands, and treatments of lymphoma-carrying mice with Notch signaling-inhibitors LY3039478 and DAPT selectively decreased expansions of T lymphomas with or without Notch1 mutations, respectively. Mature LAMs did not proliferate in the periphery. Instead, their expansion resulted from altered myelomonocytic differentiation in the bone marrows of lymphoma-carrying mice with increases in common monocyte/DC precursors but with reduced granulocyte, monocyte and DC precursor populations. These data suggest that developing T lymphomas are capable of reprogramming monocyte/DC differentiation to increase the numbers of a tumor-promoting DC type, attract it to tumor locations and may engage in Notch ligand-dependent signaling to support lymphoma survival.
Resistance to pyrethroid insecticides has become more frequent in triatomines, associated with point mutations in their target site, the voltage-gated sodium channel (VGSC). These mutations have been reported in Argentina, Bolivia and Mexico, by means of nested PCR. In Chile, the repeated intradomiciliary presence of the vector Triatoma infestans after spraying may be related to resistance; however, target-site mutations have yet to be evaluated. Using a partial sequence of the VGSC as a search query for the T. infestans genome, the complete VGSC gene sequence was obtained. Ten primer pairs were generated with Primer-BLAST and tested in silico by BLAST against the T. infestans genome and against the NCBI nucleotide database (nr) to discard those with low specificity. Conventional PCRs were performed with T. infestans' DNA and the remaining primers, selecting one pair based on sensitivity and the absence of nonspecific bands. The 993 bp sequenced product allows for the evaluation of the three point mutations reported in the VGSC of triatomines. Primer validation was performed with L925I mutation-positive samples from Argentina. Chilean samples from five localities were also amplified and Sanger sequenced in search of mutations. The L925I mutation was detected only in the Argentinean controls. None of the variants evaluated were found in the Chilean samples. These primers will allow rapid evaluation of point mutations in the VGSC, which may be associated with reduced affinity of pyrethroids for their target site; thereby facilitating insecticide resistance surveillance.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Gastric cancer (GC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, especially in advanced stages with limited treatment efficacy. Rhizoma Paridis (RPS), a traditional Chinese medicinal herb, has shown promising antitumor activity, yet its potential anti-GC mechanisms have not been systematically investigated.An integrated computational and experimental framework was established to explore the anti-GC activity and potential mechanisms of RPS. First, the active compounds of RPS and their corresponding targets were identified using UPLC, LC-MS analysis and machine learning (Ml)-driven data mining. Then, the key target genes were determined by the gradient boosting algorithms and their associations with GC were investigated by the deconvolution algorithms, unsupervised clustering and dimensionality reduction methods. Further, the potential compound-target interactions and the mechanism of RPS for treating GC were supported by the molecular docking, Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, in vivo and in vitro experiments.A total of 118 phytochemicals were identified from RPS, from which 40 candidate bioactive compounds and six hub genes, i.e., BAX, BCL2, VEGFA, KDR, CASP3 and CTNNB1 were prioritized. Functional enrichment analyses suggested that these targets were mainly associated with apoptosis, angiogenesis and Wnt/β-catenin-related signaling pathways. Transcriptomic, prognostic, immune infiltration and single-cell analyses further supported their relevance in GC. Docking and MD simulations indicated favorable binding stability between representative compounds and the key targets. Experimental studies demonstrated that RPS inhibited GC cell proliferation and tumor growth, accompanied by apoptosis-related and angiogenesis-associated molecular changes.RPS exhibits significant anti-GC activity and may exert its effects through the coordinated regulation of apoptosis-, angiogenesis- and Wnt/β-catenin-associated pathways. This study provides a systems-level framework integrating computational analyses with biological validation to investigate the pharmacological effects of complex herbal medicines and offers mechanistic insights into the anti-GC potential of RPS.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Malaria remains a major public health challenge in the Democratic Republic of Congo. To address the lack of contemporary entomological data, this four-year study characterized key entomological parameters in Kinshasa Province. We conducted a prospective observational cohort study (2018-2022) in three health areas. Adult mosquitoes were sampled using CDC light traps and pyrethrum spray catches. Sporozoite rates were estimated using ELISA, and trap collections were used as proxy measures of host-seeking mosquito activity to estimate light trap rates and annualized entomological inoculation rate (EIR) estimates. Insecticide susceptibility of adult females was assessed using WHO tube tests. A generalized estimating equations model evaluated the effects of key variables on mosquito abundance. A total of 1,449 Anopheles were collected, with 50% from rural, 49% from peri-urban, and 1% from urban areas. The species captured were An. gambiae s.l. (85%), An. paludis (11%), and An. funestus (4%). An. gambiae s.l. was significantly more abundant indoors and after 10 PM. The overall EIR estimate was 4.7 infective mosquitoes per trap per year, with An. gambiae s.l. contributing the highest transmission intensity. A localized increase in the transmission intensity associated with An. paludis was observed in one site during the rainy season, although mosquito numbers were small. Resistance to DDT and pyrethroids was widespread, with an estimated 0.94 frequency of the kdr L1014F mutation. Bendiocarb and pirimiphos-methyl remained effective. This study found that An. gambiae s.l. remains the predominant malaria vector in Kinshasa. The findings also suggest a possible contribution of An. paludis to malaria transmission in some rural settings, although additional longitudinal studies with larger sample sizes are needed. Because sporozoite detection was based on ELISA, additional molecular confirmation studies would be valuable. Continued entomological surveillance is essential to track biting behavior and resistance patterns and ensure that selected interventions remain effective.Copyright: © 2026 Vulu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
BACKGROUND The green peach aphid, Myzus persicae, is a major pest and virus vector in central European agriculture. Following the neonicotinoid seed treatment ban and under climate warming, its populations have increased, raising concerns about insecticide resistance. RESULTS This study assessed the phenotypic resistance and underlying target-site mutations in Czech populations of M. persicae from oilseed rape between 2022 and 2024. Bioassays with cypermethrin, pirimicarb, and acetamiprid revealed extreme and increasing pyrethroid resistance, whereas susceptibility to pirimicarb and acetamiprid remained high or improved compared to earlier periods. Molecular screening of 140 field-collected aphids identified four sodium channel mutations (L1014F, M918L, M918T, L932F) and the ace2 mutation S431F. Survival under insecticide selection strongly highlighted the functional role of specific mutations: the M918L mutation was the most prevalent among cypermethrin survivors (68.75%), confirming it as the primary mechanism of pyrethroid target-site resistance in these populations. Conversely, the S431F mutation reached complete fixation (100%) in pirimicarb survivors, serving as a definitive marker for carbamate resistance and indicating a high risk of rapid resistance development upon intensive use. Significant negative correlations between M918L and L1014F/L932F suggest divergent resistance lineages. CONCLUSION No clear geographical patterns were observed, indicating that resistance is driven by agricultural practices rather than regional factors. These findings highlight the rapid evolution of pyrethroid resistance and underscore the need for integrated pest management, including molecular monitoring and careful insecticide rotation, to sustain control of M. persicae in Czechia. © 2026 The Author(s). Pest Management Science published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Society of Chemical Industry.© 2026 The Author(s). Pest Management Science published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Society of Chemical Industry.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42545144 is a review article
This study aimed to investigate the mechanism by which Xinfeng Capsules(XFC), a traditional Chinese medicine preparation, ameliorates interstitial lung disease(ILD) in adjuvant arthritis(AA) model rats. It exerts the effect by regulating the adsorption of microRNA155(miR155) by metastasis-associated lung adenocarcinoma transcript 1(MALAT1), thereby ameliorating the abnormal expression of miR155 and subsequently modulating the neurogenic locus Notch homolog protein(Notch)-recombination signal binding protein for immunoglobulin kappa J region(RBP-Jκ) signaling pathway. An AA rat model was established, and after intragastric administration of XFC, pharmacodynamic evaluation was conducted on rats in each group, including arthritis index scoring, paw swelling measurement, pulmonary function test, and histopathological examinations of lung tissue and ankle joint synovium. ELISA was used to detect the levels of related inflammatory cytokines. RT-qPCR was performed to determine the expression levels of long non-coding RNA(lncRNA) MALAT1, miR155 and genes related to the Notch-RBP-Jκ signaling pathway, while Western blot was applied to examine the protein expression of ETS transcription factor-1(ETS-1) and RBP-Jκ. The results showed that, compared with the model group, XFC significantly improved pulmonary function, alleviated paw swelling, and inhibited fibrous hyperplasia and inflammatory cell infiltration in synovial and lung tissue of AA rats. It also reduced the serum levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), interleukin-1β(IL-1β) and interleukin-6(IL-6), thereby alleviating the systemic inflammatory responses. In addition, XFC ameliorated the aberrant expression of lncRNA MALAT1 and miR155, inhibited the transcription of Notch homolog 1(Notch1), Jagged canonical Notch ligand 1(Jagged1), nuclear factor of activated T cells cytoplasmic 1(NFATC1) and interferon regulatory factor 8(IRF8), and further promoted the protein expression of ETS-1 while suppressing RBP-Jκ protein expression. In summary, XFC may exert its effects by enhancing the roles of lncRNA MALAT1 as a molecular sponge to adsorb miR155, thereby inhibiting the aberrant expression of miR155, which in turn modulates the overactivation and transcription of the Notch-RBP-Jκ signaling pathway, suppresses the articular inflammatory response and ameliorates ILD lesions in AA rats.
This study aimed to explore the mechanism by which psoralen regulates the neurogenic gene homologous protein(Notch)/zinc-finger transcription factors(Snail) pathway to inhibit liver metastasis of colorectal cancer. SW480 cells were allocated into a blank control group, low-, medium-, and high-concentration psoralen groups, and a high-concentration psoralen + Notch activator(Jagged1) group. The cell migration, invasion, mRNA levels of matrix metalloproteinase(MMP)-2, MMP-9, epithelial cadherin(E-cadherin), neural cadherin(N-cadherin), and protein levels of Notch1 and Snail were measured. Mice were assigned into a normal group, a model group, low-, medium-, and high-dose psoralen groups, a 5-fluorouracil(5-FU) group, and a high-dose psoralen + Jagged1 group, with 12 mice in each group. Liver metastasis in mice was examined via in vivo imaging. The liver weight, number of surface nodules, liver tissue pathology, and the above mRNA and protein levels were examined. The safety of psoralen was evaluated. The results showed that compared with the blank control group, psoralen decreased the scratch healing rate, number of invasive cells, mRNA levels of MMP-2, MMP-9, and N-cadherin, and protein levels of Notch1 and Snail, while increasing the mRNA level of E-cadherin in a concentration-dependent manner. In animal experiments, compared with the model group, the low-, medium-, and high-dose psoralen groups and the 5-FU group showed alleviated pathological damage in the liver tissue, reduced region of interest(ROI) values of liver fluorescence area, liver weight, number of surface nodules, mRNA levels of MMP-2, MMP-9, and N-cadherin, and protein levels of Notch1 and Snail but increased mRNA level of E-cadherin. Moreover, psoralen functioned in a dose-dependent manner. Jagged1 reversed the inhibitory effect of high-dose psoralen on liver metastasis of colorectal cancer in mice. Psoralen did not cause significant toxicity to hematopoietic, liver, or kidney functions at the tested doses. In conclusion, psoralen may inhibit liver metastasis of colorectal cancer by suppressing the Notch/Snail pathway.
NKX2-1 (thyroid transcription factor 1, TTF-1) is a homeodomain transcription factor that plays critical roles in the development and function of the thyroid, lung and forebrain. Here, we report the crystal structure of the NKX2-1 homeodomain bound to a 19 bp DNA duplex containing two palindromically arranged NK2-recognition motifs, refined to 3.26 Å resolution. The structure reveals two homeodomains bound to a single DNA duplex and demonstrates that the overall fold and DNA-binding interactions are highly conserved relative to those of NKX2-5. Comparison with NKX2-5 further shows that the amino-acid residues that differ between the two homeodomains are located away from the protein-DNA interface, suggesting that functional differences between these transcription factors are unlikely to arise from distinct DNA-recognition mechanisms. These findings provide a structural framework for understanding DNA recognition by NKX2-1 and for interpreting the effects of pathogenic variants within its homeodomain.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42565214
Influenza A virus (IAV) remains a major global health threat due to its high mutation rate and the emergence of antiviral resistance. Targeting host factors provides an alternative therapeutic strategy to overcome these challenges. Previous studies have shown that the L-type calcium channel Cav1.2 was implicated in viral infections. In this study, we aimed to clarify the mechanism by which Cav1.2 acts as a critical host factor mediating IAV infection, using the dihydropyridine-type calcium channel blocker nisoldipine. Nisoldipine showed notable antiviral activity in both in vitro and in vivo models. Mechanistically, nisoldipine inhibited IAV internalization by targeting Cav1.2, thereby suppressing calcium-dependent activation of the Ras-PI3K-AKT, RhoA-ROCK, and JNK pathways associated with viral internalization. Moreover, nisoldipine modulated the unfolded protein response (UPR) in host cells by promoting adaptive XBP1 splicing and contributed to the maintenance of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) homeostasis during IAV infection. Collectively, these observations support a sequential cascade model: Cav1.2 inhibition restrains viral entry and indirectly mitigates virus-triggered ER stress. Furthermore, nisoldipine exhibits broad-spectrum in vitro antiviral activity against multiple enveloped RNA and DNA viruses, including human coronavirus OC43 (HCoV-OC43), respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), Zika virus (ZIKV), Dengue virus Type 2 (DENV2), and Herpes Simplex Virus Type 1/2 (HSV-1/2). This study clarifies the mechanistic involvement of Cav1.2 in IAV infection and further identifies it as a promising broad-spectrum antiviral target with potential applications in preventing and treating influenza, human coronavirus infections, and other emerging viral diseases.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The purpose of this study was to investigate cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD) and polypoidal choroidal vasculopathy (PCV) via single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), then focusing on caveolae-resident proteins based on identified negatively enriched caveolae via Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA).Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from patients with nAMD/PCV (n = 10) and healthy controls (n = 9) were collected. A total of 22,593 high-quality monocytes were analyzed for differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and GSEA. The key finding of negatively enriched caveola was recapitulated by in vitro mRNA transfections in THP-1 monocytes and human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), followed by validation using qPCR. Functional assays and cytokine profiling were also performed.A total of 122 significant pathways was identified from WikiPathways, Reactome, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and Gene Ontology. GSEA revealed significant negative enrichment of caveola in classical monocytes of PCV (NES = -1.769, P = 0.001, q = 0.026). Cytokine/chemokine profiling revealed that Caveolin (CAV)1/2-overexpressing monocytes secreted markedly higher levels of several proinflammatory mediators, including IL-1β, IL-2, IL-8, IL-17, TNF-α, PDGF-BB, and MIP-1α/β. CAV1 or CAV2 overexpression in THP-1 cells increased monocyte adhesion but inhibited transendothelial migration. In HUVECs, their overexpression induced moderate cytokine profiles, including downregulation of RANTES (CCL5), IL-10, and VEGF, and upregulation of IL-6 and MIP-1α. CAV1/2 overexpression also significantly inhibited tube formation, whereas knockdown of CAV1 or CAV2 enhanced tube formation.Caveolins appear to contribute to the pathogenesis of nAMD and PCV as modulators of inflammation and vascular function. Enhanced CAV1/2 expression in endothelial cells attenuates angiogenic activity, indicating a potential therapeutic strategy.
Ischemic stroke is a leading cause of mortality and disability worldwide, and disruption of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) plays a critical role in its pathogenesis. Nitric oxide has been reported to exert neuroprotective effects, but its therapeutic application remains limited. This study aimed to evaluate the neuroprotective effects of a nitric oxide-releasing butylphthalide derivative and to elucidate its underlying mechanisms, particularly in relation to BBB preservation. We investigated compound 10 exhibited potent neuroprotective activity with favorable safety and BBB permeability. In a rat middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) model, compound 10 significantly reduced infarct volume and alleviated histopathological damage. Mechanistically, compound 10 suppressed neuroinflammation and oxidative stress, as evidenced by reduced pro-inflammatory cytokine levels, inhibition of microglial activation, and restoration of antioxidant capacity. Notably, compound 10 effectively preserved BBB integrity, as demonstrated by decreased Evans blue extravasation and upregulation of tight junction proteins. Further investigation revealed that these protective effects were mediated through activation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) signaling, leading to increased Cav-1 expression and suppression of MMP-9-dependent BBB disruption. Pharmacological inhibition of eNOS abolished these effects, confirming the critical role of the eNOS/Cav-1/MMP-9 axis. This study identifies compound 10 as a promising multifunctional neuroprotective agent and highlights NO-mediated BBB protection as a viable therapeutic strategy for ischemic stroke.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
Voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs) regulate differentiation, function, and survival of excitable cells, and pathogenic variants cause diverse disorders. Most known disease-associated VGCC mutations affect well-characterized regions controlling voltage-dependent gating and channel kinetics, while many residues remain functionally unannotated. We developed an evolutionary model to predict the pathogenic potential of residues in the pore-forming Cav1.3 subunit, previously validated with de novo gain-of-function variants linked to neurodevelopmental diseases. Here we show that the model recapitulates established functional regions and prospectively identifies functional sites at single-amino acid resolution. Electrophysiological analyses of five predicted variants across multiple channel domains confirmed functional alterations. The approach also captures loss-of-function variants typically pathogenic only in the homozygous state, establishing a predictive framework for identifying and functionally characterizing pathogenic variants in Cav1.3 and related ion channels.
This study aimed to investigate the therapeutic effect of Huangqin Qingre Chubi Capsules(HQC) on rheumatoid arthritis(RA) and the mechanism of inhibiting RA macrophage polarization by reducing the entry of intestine-derived lipopolysaccharide(LPS) into the bloodstream. ELISA and 16S rRNA analysis were used to assess the inhibitory effect of HQC on LPS in the intestinal contents of mice in vivo. The effect of HQC on macrophage proliferation was detected by CCK-8 assay to determine the appropriate dose of drug-containing serum. RT-qPCR and immunofluorescence assay were used to detect the expression of genes related to macrophage polarization. Transcriptomics was used to predict the biomolecular function of macrophages upon LPS stimulation, and molecular docking was utilized to verify the binding of key HQC components to Wnt family member 7b(Wnt7b). Following co-culture of macrophages with fibroblast-like synoviocytes(FLS), RT-qPCR, Western blot, scratch assay, flow cytometry, and immunofluorescence assay were employed to investigate the regulatory mechanism of HQC on M1 macrophage-FLS communication via the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. The results showed that LPS was highly expressed in the intestinal contents of collagen-induced arthritis(CIA) model mice, and HQC administration exhibited a negative correlation with this expression. M1 macrophages promoted the expression of inflammatory factors such as inducible nitric oxide synthase(iNOS), tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), and interleukin-6(IL-6), and also increased oxidative activity; these effects could be reversed by HQC. Transcriptomic analysis predicted that the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway was highly correlated with the effect of HQC on macrophage polarization in RA treatment. HQC-containing serum inhibited FLS migration, promoted apoptosis, and suppressed the expression of key genes in the Wnt signaling pathway, including c-Myc, CCND1, and β-catenin. Molecular docking indicated strong binding affinity between key components of HQC and Wnt7b. Overexpression of Wnt7b in macrophages, followed by co-culture with FLS, significantly interfered with the therapeutic effects of HQC. These findings demonstrated that HQC alleviates RA by inhibiting the entry of intestine-derived LPS into the bloodstream, thereby blocking M1 macrophages-FLS communication.
Synaptic dysfunction and neurite remodeling are early features of many inherited retinal diseases, but whether synaptic function can be restored after circuit remodeling remains unclear. We evaluated the therapeutic potential of adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated α2δ4 gene supplementation in a mouse model of CACNA2D4-associated retinal synaptopathy.AAV8-GRK1-α2δ4 was delivered by subretinal injection to α2δ4 knockout mice at neonatal, young adult, or middle-aged adult stages. Retinal function was assessed by electroretinography. Synaptic organization and circuit remodeling were evaluated by immunohistochemistry.AAV-mediated α2δ4 expression restored synaptic localization of Cav1.4, ELFN proteins, and mGluR6 at all treatment ages. However, circuit structure and functional rescue were age- and circuit-dependent. Neonatal treatment restored rod and cone transmission and prevented photoreceptor terminal retraction and bipolar cell dendritic sprouting. Rescue in young adults improved rod and cone circuit function but did not reverse neurite remodeling. Rescue in middle-aged mice restored cone but not rod transmission. Notably, neonatal treatment produced the highest proportion of synapses within synaptic layer, whereas adult treatment generated increasing ectopic synapses in nuclear layer.Photoreceptor synaptic assembly remains plastic in remodeled retinas and can be restored by α2δ4 supplementation. However, rescue efficacy is influenced by age and circuits with rod circuits exhibiting a narrower therapeutic window. Synaptic molecular reassembly can occur without neurite restoration. These findings establish α2δ4 gene therapy as a promising treatment for CACNA2D4-associated retinal synaptopathy and reveal distinct intervention windows for synaptic assembly, neurite remodeling, and rod versus cone circuit recovery.
In multiple sclerosis several alterations in transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) signaling in immune cells have been observed, however, little is known about gene expression of TGF-β receptor subunits. Dimethyl fumarate is a disease modifying drug that is still used to treat relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis. Although its inhibitory effect on TGF-β signaling associated with SMAD proteins has been observed, its effect on the expression of TGF-β receptors is unknown. Expression of genes for TGF-β receptor subunits - TGFBR1, TGFBR2, as well as the co-receptor - TGFBR3 has been examined in blood from patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis, untreated and treated with dimethyl fumarate, as well as in healthy controls, using droplet digital PCR. TGF-β1 concentrations were determined in sera, using ELISA. Untreated patients had significantly lower TGFBR3 gene expression in blood than healthy controls (p<0.0001) and significantly lower serum concentration of TGF-β1 (p=0.0268), than healthy controls. Patients treated with dimethyl fumarate had significantly lower TGFBR2 and TGFBR1 gene expression (p=0.0054 and 0.0225 respectively) and significantly higher TGF-β1 (p=0.0113) serum concentrations than untreated patients. The percentage of T cells in blood of untreated relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) patients was significantly higher than in healthy controls (p=0.0054), but in dimethyl fumarate-treated patients was not significantly different from the values in the other groups. Downregulation of the TGFBR3 gene and lower TGF-β1 serum concentration in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis can indicate a defective regulatory immune response. Downregulation of TGFBR1 and TGFBR2 genes could be one of the mechanisms for dimethyl fumarate-induced inhibition of TGF-β signaling.Copyright© 2025 Polish Physiological Society.
Previous studies from us and others suggest that the second heart field (SHF)-derived outflow tract (OFT) wall can undergo a cell fate transition to mesenchymal cells within the intercalated valve swelling (ICVS). However, the trajectory of this transition and its intrinsic regulation remain unknown. Here, we investigate cell fate determination in OFT development and identify specific Nkx2-5 expression in the inferior midline OFT (imOFT) wall and adjacent ICVS. scRNA-seq of E10.5 OFT revealed a transcriptional signature specific to the imICVS within the heterogeneous cell populations. We observed that cells of the imOFT wall ingress while maintaining myocyte properties, whereas the leading cells initiate a transition to a mesenchymal fate. Furthermore, these ingressing cells exhibit 'lily-bulb' collective cell migration. In addition, we found that β-catenin, Shh and FGF8 signaling are associated with imICVS formation. These results identify a novel type of cell ingression and the imICVS appears to spatially coordinate the distribution of OFT main cushion derived from neural crest. This study provides new insights into the role of the SHF in OFT septation and the pathogenesis of congenital heart diseases.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Hair cell regeneration from supporting cells declines rapidly during early postnatal development, limiting therapeutic applications. We demonstrate that strategic microenvironmental remodeling can dramatically enhance inner ear progenitor cell (IEPC) function beyond what conventional marker-based approaches predict. Using functional screening focused on differentiation capacity rather than single progenitor markers (Lgr5), we discovered that concurrent Sonic hedgehog activation and BMP inhibition create a synergistic niche environment. This dual signaling approach generated high-purity Sox2+/Ki67+ IEPCs from postnatal day 7 (P7) supporting cells with 50.83%±1.76% hair cell differentiation efficiency. Single-cell RNA sequencing revealed that this strategy drives progenitor reprogramming by activating inner ear developmental gene programs while suppressing supporting cell identity. Regenerated hair cells exhibited functional mechanotransduction, voltage-gated currents, and drug sensitivity profiles. Importantly, this microenvironmental control strategy remained effective up to the P9 stage, demonstrating that niche reconstruction can overcome developmental stage-specific limitations in progenitor function. These findings establish niche remodeling as a powerful framework for enhancing stem cell therapeutic potential.© 2026. Science China Press.
The Fucci mouse lines are valuable tools for tracing cell cycle stages during development and in postnatal tissues; however, the insertion loci for the transgenes remain unidentified. Here, we report the genomic insertion sites of both the Fucci-G1 and -S/G2/M transgenes, identified through whole-genome sequencing. Interestingly, the Fucci-G1 transgene is located proximal to the Shh lung gut enhancer (SLGE) on chromosome 5. Homozygous Fucci-G1 embryos are perinatal lethal but survive until embryonic day (E)18.5, exhibiting craniofacial and foregut-related defects. Expression of Shh and canonical targets are downregulated in the pharyngeal arches of E11.5 homozygous Fucci-G1 embryos. Furthermore, in situ hybridization analysis showed diminished Shh expression in the pharyngeal and foregut endoderm, consistent with disruptions to SLGE activity. Our results indicate that heterozygous Fucci-G1 mice are suitable for cell cycle studies; however, we caution potential genetic interference when investigating SHH-related pathways.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Endothelial cells are critical in the regulation of blood pressure. We previously demonstrated AGGF1 was crucial for maintaining endothelial cell function. This study aims to examine whether AGGF1 regulates blood pressure. Here, we found that AGGF1 expression was inversely correlated with blood pressure with age. In male mice, endothelial-specific loss of function of Aggf1 (Aggf1flox/flox/Tie2-Cre+) significantly increased blood pressure, whereas endothelial-specific human AGGF1 overexpression (TGM(Tie2-hAGGF1)) suppressed age-elevated blood pressure. The endothelial-specific loss of AGGF1 accelerated early vascular aging, characterized by increased arterial stiffness, impaired endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation, reduced eNOS phosphorylation, and augmented ROS production, whereas AGGF1 overexpression rescued these phenotypic changes. Mechanistically, we found that nuclear-localized AGGF1 bound to the SESN2 promoter and enhanced its transcription. This upregulation of SESN2 attenuated mitochondrial dysfunction, including respiratory dysfunction and elevated mitochondrial ROS, and ultimately led to increased p-eNOS levels and improved endothelial function. Furthermore, SESN2 overexpression rescued early vascular aging and reduced blood pressure in Aggf1flox/flox/Tie2-Cre+ mice, while SESN2 knockdown attenuated the beneficial vascular effects of AGGF1. Together, we demonstrate that endothelial AGGF1/SESN2/p-eNOS is a novel and important signaling axis in the maintenance of blood pressure. Age suppresses the AGGF1/SESN2/p-eNOS signaling cascade, leading to an elevation of blood pressure. Our study provides new insights into age-elevated blood pressure in male mice and suggests AGGF1 as a potentially valuable target for prehypertension intervention in the elderly male population.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis dysregulation is a hallmark of major depressive disorder in adults. However, the long-term impact of adolescent depression on adult HPA axis function and adrenal steroidogenesis remains unclear. To address this, we exposed male mice to chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) during postnatal weeks (PW) 4-8 to model adolescent depression. At PW8, CUMS mice exhibited elevated HPA axis activity and enhanced adrenal steroidogenesis, confirming successful model induction. By PW16 (adulthood), HPA axis activity had normalized, whereas adrenal steroidogenesis was markedly suppressed. Transcriptomic analysis followed by validation revealed downregulation of Hedgehog signaling components in the adrenal glands of CUMS mice at PW16. Furthermore, a persistent reduction in H3K4me3 enrichment at the SHH promoter was observed from PW8 to PW16. In vitro, corticosterone treatment reduced SHH promoter H3K4me3 levels and inhibited Hedgehog signaling in adrenocortical cells. Collectively, these findings indicate that adolescent CUMS impairs adult adrenal steroidogenesis via glucocorticoid-mediated epigenetic repression of the SHH/Hedgehog signaling pathway. This study provides novel mechanistic insights into the persistent endocrine consequences of adolescent depression.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study aimed to evaluate the role and optimal timing of radiotherapy following intensive chemotherapy in infants with medulloblastoma (MB), and to explore whether molecular subtyping may inform radiotherapy timing strategies.We conducted a retrospective cohort study including 105 children aged < 3 years with MB treated at Beijing Shijitan Hospital, Capital Medical University, between 2013 and 2023. Clinical data were collected to compare clinical characteristics and survival outcomes across different radiotherapy strategies.Among 105 infants with MB, 67 (63.8%) were classified as SHH, 18 (17.1%) as Group 3, and 20 (19.0%) as Group 4, with no WNT cases identified. The SHH subgroup demonstrated significantly better survival than the Non-SHH subgroup (comprising Group 3 and Group 4), with 3-year overall survival (OS) of 80.2% versus 46.0% and progression-free survival (PFS) of 62.6% versus 30.4% (both P < 0.001). Patients were stratified into chemotherapy-only, upfront radiotherapy, and salvage radiotherapy groups based on treatment timing. In SHH patients, upfront radiotherapy did not confer additional survival benefit over chemotherapy alone (P = 0.658), whereas salvage radiotherapy was associated with longer observed OS (P = 0.005). In contrast, in the Non-SHH subgroup, chemotherapy alone was associated with a high progression rate (85.7%), and radiotherapy was associated with improved survival outcomes.Real-world data demonstrate distinct differences between SHH and Non-SHH infant MBs in survival outcomes and radiotherapy strategies. The SHH subtype showed favorable survival with systemic chemotherapy, whereas the Non-SHH subtype exhibited limited disease control with chemotherapy alone, suggesting a more critical role for radiotherapy in this population.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Subgroup-SHH of medulloblastoma (MB) is primarily found in children, with an increased propensity for metastatic presentation that contributes to its poor prognosis. Current therapy approaches may include surgery, radiation, systematic chemotherapy, and autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT). At relapse, patients may receive additional chemotherapy and radiation if possible. The outcome for relapsed patients is 10-30% long term survival. Herein we present a case of a 6-year-old male with a pathologically confirmed diagnosis of subgroup-SHH MB, who was treated with upfront surgical resections, high-dose chemotherapy, and ASCT. Nine months after completion of upfront therapy, the subject relapsed. Subsequently, he was enrolled onto NMTRC009 (NCT02162732) and underwent biopsy with genomic sequencing (DNA whole exome and RNA transcriptome). A molecular tumor board, using precision medicine analysis, recommended vorinostat, vismodegib, curcumin, and palbociclib as targeted therapy. This therapy resulted in a complete tumor response and long-term survival. A cell line was derived from the subject's tumor and used for in vitro testing. Combined molecular therapies demonstrated synergistic efficacy compared with single-agent treatment.Copyright © 2026 Vazquez, Lerch, Gandra, Moore, Lincoln, Nagulapally, Treadway, Thamburaj, Brown and Sholler.
Supernumerary teeth are common congenital dental anomalies resulting from disrupted epithelial-mesenchymal interactions during tooth development. Although Hedgehog signaling is known to regulate tooth development, its temporal requirement for tooth number determination remains elusive. To investigate the role of early epithelial Hedgehog signaling, we conditionally deleted Smo in the dental epithelium using Pitx2-Cre, which initiates recombination at E10.5, prior to the onset of K14-Cre activity. SmoPitx2Cre mutant mice developed two supernumerary mandibular incisors together with defective ameloblast differentiation and disrupted enamel formation. BrdU labeling revealed significantly increased cell proliferation in the lingual cervical loop, with no changes in apoptosis. In situ hybridization showed reduced expression of Wnt inhibitors Dkk1 and Sostdc1, accompanied by upregulation of the Wnt target gene Lef1, indicating aberrant activation of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway in SmoPitx2Cre incisors. Treatment with SHH in vitro upregulated Dkk1 and Sostdc1 expression, confirming that Hedgehog signaling positively regulates these Wnt inhibitors. Moreover, the SmoPitx2Cre mutant mice exhibited decreased expression of Fgf3, Sp6, Dlx2, and Msx2, genes implicated in ameloblast differentiation and dental patterning. Together, these findings demonstrate that epithelial Hedgehog signaling is required during early odontogenesis to establish normal tooth patterning through coordinated regulation of Wnt signaling and epithelial-mesenchymal communication, while simultaneously promoting ameloblast differentiation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Psoriasis features excessive epidermal keratinocyte proliferation, and our previous work identified a non-synonymous mutation in SPRED1 in psoriasis, specifically an enrichment of c.A881T (p.Y294F) in exon 7 (chr15:38351210). Combining public database data and clinical skin specimens, this study confirmed reduced SPRED1 expression in psoriatic lesions. Functional investigations were performed using HaCaT/NHEK keratinocyte transfection models, imiquimod-induced psoriasis-like mouse models, pathway agonist/inhibitor rescue assays, co-immunoprecipitation and dual-luciferase detection. SPRED1 indirectly interacts with nuclear ERK to block ERK-RSK1 activation and restrain keratinocyte overgrowth, whereas miR-126 downregulates SPRED1 by direct targeting. Intradermal supplementation of recombinant SPRED1 alleviates skin pathological changes in mice. These findings define the miR-126/SPRED1/ERK-RSK1 regulatory cascade and support SPRED1 as a promising candidate target for psoriasis treatment.© 2026 The Author(s).
Pathogenic GANAB gene variants are a rare cause of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD). With only few reported cases, the phenotypic spectrum of GANAB-related disorders is still emerging. Although kidney and hepatic cysts are well-documented, cutaneous manifestations are not recognized features of GANAB-related ADPKD. Here, we report GANAB-related ADPKD in a 59-year-old woman with multiple café-au-lait macules and axillary freckling. Targeted NF1 and SPRED1 gene testing was negative. Genome sequencing showed a heterozygous pathogenic germline variant, GANAB (c.181C>T, p.Arg61∗). Magnetic resonance imaging confirmed the presence of numerous hepatic cysts and multiple cysts bilaterally in the kidneys. Our findings suggest that the phenotypic spectrum of GANAB-related disorders may include café-au-lait macules and axillary freckling. Because this observation is based on a single individual, the association may be coincidental and should be considered hypothesis-generating. Careful documentation of additional cases will be required to clarify whether pigmentary findings represent a recurrent feature of GANAB-related disease or an incidental finding.© 2026 The Authors.
To investigate the genetic architecture of male genital lichen sclerosus (MGLSc) and to identify potential susceptibility loci, candidate genes, and biological pathways associated with disease pathogenesis by integrating genomic structural equation modeling (Genomic-SEM) with multi-omics analyses and experimental validation.Publicly available genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary statistics of MGLSc-related traits were integrated to construct a Genomic-SEM framework. Linkage disequilibrium score regression (LDSC) was used to estimate genetic correlations and evaluate model stability. Functional mapping and annotation were performed using FUMA, and novel loci were further screened through a GWAS subtraction strategy. Fine-mapping was conducted using SuSIE and FINEMAP to prioritize candidate causal variants. Transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS) and FOCUS were applied to identify candidate genes. MAGMA-based gene enrichment, partitioned heritability analysis, and polygenic risk score (PRS) analyses were further performed to characterize the biological relevance of associated loci. Finally, RT-qPCR was conducted in vitro to validate the expression of prioritized genes.The Genomic-SEM showed a good overall fit and generated an indirect GWAS framework comprising 2,451,318 SNPs for MGLSc. A total of 208 SNPs reached conventional genome-wide significance, and FUMA annotation identified 43 risk loci, 52 lead SNPs, and 14 candidate genes. Using the GWAS subtraction strategy, 13 novel SNPs were further identified, including rs715299 and rs10774625. Fine-mapping highlighted four high-confidence variants, namely rs3134608, rs3134952, rs3763307, and rs2076524, mainly clustered in the chromosome 6 major histocompatibility complex region. TWAS identified HLA-DPA1 as the most significant gene, and FOCUS further supported its likely causal role. MAGMA and enrichment analyses suggested that immune-related and regulatory regions contributed substantially to MGLSc heritability. PRS analysis demonstrated marked heterogeneity across chromosomes, with chromosome 6 showing the strongest SNP-level contribution. RT-qPCR confirmed that HLA-DPA1 expression was significantly decreased in MGLSc samples compared with controls (P < 0.0001), consistent with the bioinformatics prediction. In addition, several MAGMA-prioritized genes, including C4B, DDR1, BBS7, VARS1, PRRT1, PPT2, EGFL8, BTNL2, and EME1, were downregulated, whereas AGPAT1 and PBX2 were upregulated in MGLSc samples.This study provides a systematic view of the genetic basis of MGLSc by integrating Genomic-SEM, fine-mapping, transcriptomic prioritization, and experimental validation. Our findings indicate that MGLSc is influenced by a shared polygenic architecture enriched in immune-related loci, particularly within the HLA region. HLA-DPA1 emerged as a high-confidence susceptibility gene, and multiple novel loci and candidate genes were identified, offering new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying MGLSc and potential targets for future mechanistic and translational studies.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Zhang, Fu, Hou, Xu, Li, Lu, Qiu, Wu, Gao, Zhang, Yang, Song and Zhang.
The rising demand for sustainable packaging materials has driven the use of agro-waste-derived bio-fillers to enhance the functional properties of biodegradable polymers. The aim of this study is to extract cellulose from Pandanus fascicularis Lam fibers (PFLC) and assess its effectiveness as a reinforcing bio-filler in polylactic acid (PLA) biofilms for eco-friendly packaging uses. This study was carried out by isolating Cellulose from PFL fibers via sequential bleaching and acid hydrolysis. PLA biofilms containing 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, and 3.0 wt% PFLC were fabricated using solution casting techniques. The films were characterized using FTIR, XRD, SEM-EDX, TGA, DSC, mechanical tests, oxygen transmission rate (OTR), water vapor transmission rate (WVTR), contact angle, water absorption, soil biodegradation, and UL-94 flammability tests. The results show that the incorporation of PFLC significantly influenced the performance of PLA films. Tensile strength (22.27 MPa) and Young's modulus (11.31 MPa) improved at 1 wt% PFLC, indicating better interfacial interaction, while higher loadings increased ductility. The lowest OTR of 466 cc/m2·day·atm at 2 wt% PFLC, and the lowest WVTR of 84 g/m2·day at 2.5 wt% PFLC shows improved barrier properties. Contact angle tests indicated increased hydrophilicity with higher PFLC content. Soil burial tests showed enhanced biodegradation (~48.6% weight loss at 3 wt% after 4 months), and UL-94 testing showed moderate self-extinguishing behavior (V-2 rating). The findings show that 1-2.5 wt% PFLC offers an optimal balance of mechanical, barrier, thermal, and biodegradation properties, highlighting its potential for sustainable packaging applications.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
BackgroundDifferential expression of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) in brain, serum, and blood show strong potential to distinguish Alzheimer's disease (AD) from healthy controls.ObjectiveTo explore whether lncRNA signatures delineate AD pathology and map to distinct, multidimensional cognitive domains, enhancing specificity in assessing AD severity and progression.MethodsWe profiled 29,603 lncRNAs transcripts in blood samples from 15 AD patients and 15 healthy controls, alongside comprehensive neuropsychological assessments. Generalized Linear Models and Predictive Power Score analyses, with statistical prioritization, identified lncRNAs associated to AD neuropsychological architecture.ResultsSeveral lncRNAs share strongly associated with cognitive performance and AD severity, mapping to genes involved in key AD-related molecular processes, including synaptic and neurotransmitter regulation (e.g., EPHB1, CHRNA4, TEAD1), protein homeostasis and Aβ pathology (e.g., FBXL2, FAM221A, APP), mitochondrial function and cellular stress (e.g., VDAC3, PPT2-EGFL8), neuroinflammation and immune regulation (e.g., TEAD1, EMX2OS, LY6E-DT), epigenetic and transcriptional control (e.g., PRDM2, DLEU1, FIRRE), neuronal excitability (e.g., KCNJ14), and neuroprotection and synaptic plasticity (e.g., SIL1). Novel associations included ferroptosis, DNA stability, microtubule dynamics, and dendritic orientation (e.g., BTB3, DICER1, GNG7, IBA57, NEAT1, POT1, SRD5A3).ConclusionsWe identify candidate lncRNA signatures that may serve as potential biomarkers and enhance our understanding of the molecular basis of the cognitive architecture in AD, opening new avenues for biomarker identification and targeted therapeutic strategies development. Validation in larger, diverse cohorts is essential to confirm their mechanistic contributions to AD.
Cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs) are vascular lesions caused by the loss-of-function mutations in one of three CCM genes, CCM1 (KRIT1), CCM2, and CCM3 (PDCD10), or gain-of-function mutation in MAP3K3, which encodes MEKK3. Loss of function in CCM genes leads to pathological activation of MEKK3 signaling. Genetic reduction of MAP3K3 gene dosage or pharmacological inhibition of MEKK3 suppresses CCM formation in mouse models, establishing MEKK3 as a promising therapeutic target for CCM.In silico screening was performed to identify candidate MEKK3 inhibitors. Therapeutic efficacy was evaluated using a mouse CCM model with brain endothelial cell specific deletion of Ccm3 (Ccm3BECKO). Drug effects were assessed by micro-computed tomography (micro-CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), gene expression analysis, and survival studies.We identified rebastinib as a potent inhibitor of MEKK3 kinase activity that suppresses upregulation of MEKK3 downstream target genes induced by CCM2 or CCM3 knockdown. Rebastinib exhibited lower cytotoxicity than ponatinib. Administration of rebastinib either at the stage of CCM lesion initiation or after lesion establishment significantly reduced lesion formation and growth in both the cerebrum and cerebellum of Ccm3BECKO mice. Rebastinib treatment also decreased expression of the MEKK3 downstream transcription factors Klf2 in brain endothelial cells. Importantly, treatment initiated after lesion establishment significantly prolonged the lifespan of Ccm3BECKO mice.These findings demonstrate that oral administration of rebastinib effectively suppresses CCM lesion formation and progression and extends survival in a model mouse of CCM, supporting MEKK3 inhibition as a viable therapeutic strategy for CCM disease.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Background: Hyaluronan (HA) is a critical extracellular matrix component that we have demonstrated to be important for embryonic endochondral bone formation and postnatal synovial joint formation, supporting normal articular cartilage (AC) architecture and chondrocyte function. Although the embryonic requirement for Hyaluronan Synthase 2 (Has2), the main HA-producing enzyme in skeletal tissues, has been extensively investigated, the cartilage-cell-specific roles of Has2 and HA in maintaining postnatal cartilage and joint integrity are not well-defined. Methods: In this study, we used a tamoxifen-inducible, cartilage-specific Has2 conditional knockout mouse model (AggrecanCreERT2Cre/+; Has2fl/fl). A total of 20 male mice were collected, followed with tamoxifen administered at 3 weeks of age and tissues analyzed at early and late post-induction time points using histological and matrix-based assessments. Results: Administration of tamoxifen at 3 weeks of age resulted in near-complete absence of HA in AC and growth late (GP) at 4 weeks, one week after the induction, as confirmed by highly specific HA staining Hyaluronan binding protein (HABP) immunohistochemistry. These early changes establish that Has2-dependent HA synthesis is indispensable for maintaining matrix integrity, columnar organization, and postnatal GP maturation. We further extended these findings into later developmental stages, showing that by 11 weeks of age (8 weeks after induction), tibial joints exhibit AC surface irregularity, proteoglycan depletion, disrupted zonal architecture, and changes in the osteochondral unit consistent with early degenerative features. Conclusions: Taken together, these data suggest that HA deficiency triggered in early postnatal life is associated with increased cartilage vulnerability, supporting an important role for Has2 in cartilage maturation and long-term joint integrity.
Familial cerebral cavernous malformation (FCCM) is a hereditary vascular disorder associated with pathogenic variants of KRIT1 (CCM1), CCM2, and PDCD10 (CCM3). Among these, PDCD10-related FCCM is considered the most severe subtype and is characterized by early onset, multiple lesions, frequent brainstem involvement, and an increased risk of intracranial hemorrhage. Brainstem symptoms may be the initial manifestations. However, isolated oculomotor nerve palsy in childhood is rare. We report the case of a 17-month-old girl with normal developmental milestones who developed mild right ptosis, strabismus, and impaired adduction and upward gaze of the right eye at nine months of age. There was no family history of seizures or intracranial hemorrhage. Computed tomography of the head revealed multiple intracranial calcifications. Susceptibility-weighted angiography (SWAN) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed multiple cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs), and follow-up MRI one year later demonstrated new lesions, including pontine involvement. Fast imaging employing steady-state acquisition (FIESTA) revealed hemorrhagic changes adjacent to the right oculomotor nerve within the interpeduncular cistern, suggesting that the partial oculomotor nerve palsy was associated with focal hemorrhagic involvement. Genetic analysis revealed the presence of a novel PDCD10 variant. This case highlights that PDCD10-related FCCM may initially present with isolated cranial neuropathy during childhood and subsequently show rapid radiological progression. Careful longitudinal follow-up is required because of the risk of future neurological deterioration.Copyright © 2026, Murakami et al.
Cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs) are vascular anomalies prone to hemorrhage, leading to neurological deficits and reduced quality of life. Current therapies are limited, and molecular mechanisms underlying vascular instability remain incompletely understood. MicroRNAs have emerged as key regulators of vascular integrity. This study investigates the role of microRNA-21-3p (miR-21-3p) in modulating oxidative stress and angiogenesis in CCM.Expression of miR-21-3p, NADPH oxidase 4 (NOX4), and vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) was assessed in endothelial cells and pericytes from CCM lesions of 20 sporadic patients using fluorescence in situ hybridization. Functional assays of proliferation, permeability, reactive oxygen species (ROS), migration, and tubule formation were performed in human brain microvascular endothelial cells (BMECs) and pericytes with CCM2 gene depletion, following miR-21-3p mimic or inhibitor intervention. In vivo effects on cerebral hemorrhage, vascular permeability, dilation, and angiogenesis were evaluated in ccm2-knockdown zebrafish.CCM lesions exhibited decreased miR-21-3p and increased NOX4 and VEGFA compared to controls, correlating with hemorrhage. In vitro, miR-21-3p mimics suppressed proliferation, permeability, ROS generation, and angiogenic activity by directly targeting NOX4 and VEGFA. In vivo, miR-21-3p supplementation reduced cerebral hemorrhage, vascular leakage, dilation, and sprouting angiogenesis in zebrafish with ccm2 knockdown.MiR-21-3p regulates vascular integrity in CCM by modulating NOX4-mediated oxidative stress and VEGFA-driven angiogenesis. Loss of miR-21-3p contributes to hemorrhage, while its restoration stabilizes vascular function. This study identifies miR-21-3p as a potential therapeutic target for CCM, bridging endothelial and pericyte biology with translational potential to reduce cerebral hemorrhage.© 2026 The Authors.
Appendage degeneration is a notable morphological feature of some teleosts with specialized benthic lifestyles. The half-smooth tongue sole (Cynoglossus semilaevis) undergoes severe pectoral fin regression during metamorphosis. However, the molecular basis underlying rapid pectoral fin degeneration remains unclear. Here, we performed time-series transcriptome sequencing on pectoral fins at pre-metamorphosis, metamorphosis peak and post-metamorphosis to characterize the molecular changes associated with pectoral fin degeneration. Transcriptional dynamics and functional enrichment showed that no significant enrichment of classical apoptosis-related transcriptional pathways was detected during pectoral fin degeneration. Instead, sustained downregulation of twist1b, identified as a transcriptomic candidate, together with significant upregulation of ssh1, coupled with enrichment of lysosome and ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) pathways, suggested enhanced tissue remodeling during pectoral fin degeneration. Temporal expression clustering revealed heterochronic misalignment in the developmental gene expression: upstream initiator tbx5 was upregulated at early metamorphosis, while downstream maintenance signal fgf10 decreased synchronously. Distal patterning gene hoxd12a exhibited premature expression and rapid decay, losing sustained late-phase expression. Moreover, transient elevation of gli3 during metamorphosis may contribute to restricted distal fin growth. We conclude that pectoral fin degeneration in C. semilaevis is associated with heterochronic disruption of developmental signaling and extensive tissue remodeling. This study provides transcriptomic insights into pectoral fin degeneration in tongue soles and establishes a basis for future functional studies of appendage reduction in teleosts.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Dosage-sensitive transcription factors (TFs) underlie altered gene regulation in human developmental disorders, and cell type-specific gene regulation is linked to the reorganization of three-dimensional (3D) chromatin during cellular differentiation. In this work, we show dose-dependent regulation of chromatin organization by the congenital heart disease (CHD)-linked, lineage-restricted TF TBX5 in human cardiomyocyte differentiation. Genome organization, including compartments, topologically associated domains, and chromatin loops, was sensitive to reduced TBX5 dosage in a human model of CHD, with variations in response across individual cells. Cohesin binding was reduced at TBX5-bound enhancer elements in a TBX5 dose-dependent manner, providing a potential mechanism for disrupted loop formation. These results highlight the importance of lineage-restricted TF dosage in cell type-specific 3D chromatin dynamics, suggesting a mechanism for TF-dependent disease.
The vertebrate limb buds, the embryonic precursors to arms and legs, emerge as cellular outgrowths from the somatic layer of the lateral plate mesoderm. In their work, Vighnesh Ghatpande, Can Cenik and Steve Vokes provide a comprehensive resource defining early regulatory events leading to forelimb bud initiation in the lateral plate mesoderm - a stage that remains poorly understood - and suggests additional roles for TBX5 (the earliest known forelimb-specific marker) beyond Fgf10. To learn more about their work, we talked to the first author Vighnesh Ghatpande, as well as the corresponding authors, Can Cenik, Associate Professor, and Steve Vokes, Professor, both in the Department of Molecular Biosciences, The University of Texas at Austin, USA.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
DNA methylation might influence the expression of genes that regulate coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) progression. This work explored the significance of DNA methylation of 7 genes (TAC1, CDO1, HOXA9, ZFP42, SOX17, RASSF1A, and SHOX2) in blood circulating free DNA (cfDNA) in differentiating COVID-19 infections and recoveries. The correlation with changes in the proportion of immune cell populations in the recovery period was analyzed.18 COVID-19-infected, 65 COVID-19-recovered, and 11 uninfected individuals were included. DNA methylation expression was determined by quantitative multiplex methylation-specific PCR (qMSP). The immune function of the recovered group versus uninfected group was evaluated by full-spectrum flow cytometry.The infected population showed a higher methylation positivity rate for 7 genes compared to the uninfected/recovered population. A model was constructed to distinguish the infected patients from uninfected/recovered individuals using the methylation status of 7 genes, with a sensitivity, specificity and area under curve (AUC) of 0.889, 0.842 and 0.931, respectively. The results of flow cytometry revealed that CD8+ T cells and CD38+ CD8+ T cells were significantly upregulated in recovered individuals compared to those in uninfected individuals. DNA methylation was correlated with immune cell changes, with a significant increase in the percentage of T cells, PD-1+ function CD4+ T cells, TCRγδ+ cells, and CD38+ NKT cells upon an increase in 7 gene methylation positivity.This work revealed the significance of 7 gene methylation in the diagnosis of COVID-19 recovery, and demonstrated that these genes were significant in evaluating the immune function during the recovery period.Copyright (c) 2026 Xiao Xiao, Ren Xu, Chaoxiang Du, Jun Yin, Beibei Xin, Zhonghe Ke, Xiyan Li, Hao Zhang, Xinyu Chen.
Epidermal growth factor-like domain 7 (EGFL7) was discovered as an extracellular matrix protein with an EGF-like domain and angiogenic and vasculogenic functions. It has also been shown to play a role in immunological evasion of tumor cells through attenuation of extravasation of immune cells by reducing the expression of cell adhesion molecules on vascular endothelial cells. Furthermore, microRNA-126 (miR-126), which is encoded within the intron of Egfl7, has been reported to be a vasculogenic factor. However, its immune-related functions in tumors remain unclear. Here, we examined the roles of tumor-derived EGFL7 and miR-126 in in vivo tumor progression using Egfl7/Mir-126 knockout and rescue tumor cell lines. Tumor growth was significantly suppressed in Egfl7/Mir-126-deficient cells and was restored by re-expression of miR-126, but not EGFL7. These differences in in vivo tumor growth were not observed in immunodeficient mice, suggesting the involvement of the adaptive immune system. CD4+ or CD25+ cell depletion suppressed the growth of miR-126-expressing tumors, whereas CD8+ cell depletion enhanced the growth of miR-126-deficient tumors. Histological analysis revealed an increased Foxp3+/CD8+ cell ratio in miR-126-expressing tumors during the early phase of tumor establishment. Bilateral tumor models further demonstrated that miR-126-expressing tumors promoted the growth of contralateral miR-126-deficient tumors, and a similar effect was observed using apoptotic miR-126-expressing tumor cells In vitro analyses using extracellular vesicles derived from dying tumor cells showed the transfer of miR-126 to CD4+ T cells and a higher proportion of Foxp3+ cells. Together, these findings suggest that tumor-derived miR-126 promotes tumor progression through non-local immune modulation, potentially involving maintenance of Treg-associated populations.Copyright © 2026 Akazawa, Mizote, Ekawa, Yoshida, Kumamoto, Harada, Ogawa, Watanabe, Hatoya, Inoue and Tahara.
Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is a biliary cancer with a poor prognosis and marked chemoresistance. The transcription factor SOX17, which is essential for cholangiocyte differentiation, is frequently downregulated in CCA, as is the case with several tumor suppressor genes. This study provides a proof-of-concept for further development of cellular therapeutic strategies to restore SOX17 expression in CCA cells. For this aim, we used EGI-1 cells as the target cell model derived from extrahepatic CCA. Recombinant Tat-SOX17 protein was first produced in bacteria and purified using Ni-NTA affinity columns and asymmetric flow-field-flow fractionation. Tat-SOX17 entered EGI-1 cells and reached their nucleus. The addition of the α-fetoprotein signal peptide (AFPsp) to the chimeric protein enabled the efficient secretion of the fusion protein formed by AFPsp, SOX17, and reverse Tat (TatR) by donor cells. For the production of secretome enriched in AFPsp-SOX17-TatR protein, HEK293T cells, derived from embryonic kidney, were used. In EGI-1 cells cultured in the presence of this secretome, target gene expression, cell cycle progression, apoptosis, proliferation, colony formation, and cell migration were assessed. Protein expression and localization were analyzed by Western blotting and immunofluorescence. AFPsp-SOX17-TatR enters EGI-1 cells, reaches their nucleus, and modulates the expression of SOX17-dependent genes, such as ABCB1 and ABCG2. Moreover, a marked reduction in proliferation and colony-forming ability was found. In contrast, no significant effect on cell cycle progression, apoptosis, or cell migration was observed. Similar treatment of immortalized human cholangiocytes also increased their SOX17 content, resulting in upregulation of the cholangiolar marker cytokeratin 7 (CK7), but did not affect their proliferation rate. In conclusion, using chimeric proteins such as AFPsp-SOX17-TatR, which contain components for secretion from donor cells and entry into target cancer cells, can provide a promising approach for treating tumors such as CCA, which are characterized by reduced expression of tumor suppressor genes, including SOX17.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study explores a stem-cell-based approach for diabetes treatment by enhancing the viability and functionality of insulin-producing cells (IPCs) derived from stem cells of the apical papilla (SCAP). Although SCAP can differentiate into IPCs, limited cell survival remains a challenge. To address this, the proliferation enhancer WS6 was incorporated into Eudragit RS100 nanoparticles (NPs) using microfluidics. The WS6-loaded NPs were characterized for size, charge, PDI, morphology, stability, and drug loading. An MTT assay was performed as a preliminary screening method to evaluate the cytocompatibility of blank-NPs and to optimize treatment concentration. SCAP cells were treated with free WS6 or WS6-loaded NPs, and cellular uptake of NPs was evaluated using flow cytometry and fluorescence imaging. Additionally, the viability of treated cells was determined by propidium iodide (PI) and trypan blue. Prior to differentiation, definitive endoderm formation was assessed through SOX17 and FOXA2 expressions. After differentiation into IPCs, maturation markers such as insulin, C-peptide, PDX-1, NKX2.2, and NKX6.1 were examined, and apoptosis assays measured cell viability. Functional insulin secretion was tested using an in vitro glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS) assay. Results showed that WS6-loaded NPs significantly improved SCAP viability, increased healthy cell percentages, and enhanced IPC maturation. Treated IPCs demonstrated functional insulin secretion and improved glucose regulation. Overall, WS6-loaded NPs represent a promising approach to enhance IPC proliferation and generation for diabetes therapy.Copyright: © 2026 Abuarqoub et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42547983
Late-onset preeclampsia (LO-PE) is the most prevalent clinical phenotype of preeclampsia and, although traditionally considered less strongly associated with placental dysfunction than early-onset disease, increasing evidence supports the presence of relevant placental alterations. The extracellular matrix (ECM) is a key regulator of villous architecture, tissue mechanics, trophoblast behavior, vascular remodeling, and angiogenesis. This study aimed to characterize ECM remodeling in placentas from women with LO-PE.A prospective observational study was conducted in 111 pregnant women, including 68 with LO-PE and 43 healthy controls. Placental samples were collected immediately after delivery. Gene expression of elastogenesis-related markers, cross-linking enzymes, fibrillar collagens, matrix-remodeling regulators, and endothelial-matrix signaling molecules was assessed by RT-qPCR. Protein expression was evaluated by immunohistochemistry. Differences between groups were analyzed using non-parametric tests with Benjamini-Hochberg correction, and correlations among ECM markers were explored using Spearman analysis.LO-PE placentas showed significantly increased expression of tropoelastin (TE), fibulin-4 (FBLN-4), fibulin-5 (FBLN-5), fibrillin-1 (FBN-1), lysyl oxidase (LOX), lysyl oxidase-like 1 (LOXL-1), collagen type I (COL-I), collagen type III (COL-III), and matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) at both gene and protein levels. Conversely, gene and protein expression of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-2 (TIMP-2) and epidermal growth factor-like domain 7 (EGFL7) showed a marked decrease in the placentas of pregnant women with LO-PE. These findings indicate enhanced elastogenesis, increased matrix cross-linking, greater fibrillar collagen deposition, and an imbalance in matrix turnover. Correlation analysis further suggested that, although the FBLN-4/FBLN-5 axis remained preserved, LO-PE placentas displayed partial disruption of the broader ECM transcriptional network.LO-PE placentas exhibit a coordinated but dysregulated ECM remodeling phenotype involving elastic, collagenous, proteolytic, and endothelial-matrix regulatory pathways. These alterations support ECM remodeling as a relevant biological feature of LO-PE placental pathophysiology.
The cerebral cortex is highly sensitive to oxygen availability and thus serves as an ideal model for studying neural adaptation to hypoxia. Here, we integrated long-read (Oxford Nanopore) and short-read (Illumina) single-cell RNA sequencing to systematically characterize the cellular composition and transcriptional landscape of the cerebral cortex in high-altitude Diqing Tibetan pigs (DT, ~3200 m) and low-altitude Diannan small-ear pigs (DSE, ~500 m). Single-cell analysis identified nine major cortical cell types and revealed pronounced transcriptional divergence between the breeds. In DT, multiple genes associated with high-altitude hypoxia adaptation and energy homeostasis, including NKAIN2, CTNNA3, ZFP36, and HSP40 family members, were significantly upregulated. Functional enrichment highlighted mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation and energy metabolism pathways, suggesting metabolic reprogramming under chronic hypoxia. Key transcription factors, including SOX17, NKX6-2, ETV4, and SPI1, displayed cell-type-specific activity in Endo, Oligo, and Micro. Cell-cell communication analysis showed DSE with broader intercellular connectivity, whereas DT exhibited more focused and stronger signaling interactions. Integration of long-read sequencing further identified numerous novel, cell-type-specific transcripts, expanding porcine cortical transcriptome annotation. Collectively, these findings provide a comprehensive framework for understanding cellular and molecular adaptations of the cerebral cortex to prolonged high-altitude hypoxia.© 2026. The Author(s).
Estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) is an established oncogenic transcription factor in breast and endometrial cancer; however, more is known about the mechanisms controlling ESR1 behavior in breast cancer, and therapies targeting ESR1 have been much more successful in breast cancer. To address this disparity, we characterize the genomic features that control ESR1 in endometrial cancer and determine to what extent these factors differ from those in breast cancer. We focus on the locations of estrogen response elements (EREs), ESR1's preferred DNA binding motif, throughout the human genome. To identify factors that predict ER genomic binding and effects on target gene expression, we apply machine learning to genomic data for each ERE in Ishikawa cells (ESR1-positive endometrial cancer) and T-47D cells (ESR1-positive breast cancer). Many of these factors, such as chromatin accessibility and histone modifications, are predictive of ESR1 activity in both cell lines. However, the transcription factors that predict ESR1 activity are cell type-specific, including FOXA1 and GATA3 in T-47D cells, and ETV4 and SOX17 in Ishikawa cells. In addition, the features that predict ESR1 binding and effects on gene expression differ, with transcription at EREs in the absence of estrogen being predictive of ESR1 regulatory activity. A CRISPR knockout screen in Ishikawa cells, and follow-up experiments, confirm the discovery that SOX17 controls ESR1 activity in endometrial cancer cells. These results identify important genomic features of ESR1 binding and regulatory activity and how these features differ between endometrial cancer and breast cancer cells.Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.
Chemical reprogramming holds transformative potential for regenerative medicine. However, the regulatory mechanisms governing cell fate transitions are not well understood. Here, we identify Interleukin-1 Receptor-Associated Kinase 4 (IRAK4) as a barrier to multi-lineage reprogramming. Pharmacological inhibition of IRAK4 enhances the reprogramming of mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) through a chemically activated multi-lineage priming (CaMP) state and extraembryonic endoderm (XEN)-like intermediates, increasing colony formation, and the expression of core XEN regulators (Sox17, Gata4, Sall4, and Foxa2). Genetic knockdown of Irak4 similarly accelerates reprogramming, whereas its overexpression blocks cell fate transitions. IRAK4 inhibition enhances chromatin accessibility and reshapes cell cycle dynamics, characterized by G0/G1 shortening and G2/M lengthening, potentially contributing to multi-lineage state establishment. Furthermore, IRAK4 suppression enhances the direct conversion of MEFs to neuron-like and hepatocyte-like cells, which exhibit enhanced functional maturity, including increased glycogen storage and improved detoxification capacity. Our findings establish IRAK4 as a regulator that constrains cellular plasticity potentially by coordinating chromatin accessibility and cell cycle dynamics.© 2026. The Author(s).
Estrogen receptor alpha (ER) is an established oncogenic transcription factor in breast and endometrial cancer; however, more is known about the mechanisms controlling ER behavior in breast cancer, and therapies targeting ER have been much more successful in breast cancer. To address this disparity, we characterize the genomic features that control ER in endometrial cancer and determine to what extent these factors differ from those in breast cancer. We focus on the locations of estrogen response elements (EREs), ER's preferred DNA binding motif, throughout the human genome. To identify factors that predict ER genomic binding and effects on target gene expression, we apply machine learning to genomic data for each ERE in Ishikawa cells (ER-positive endometrial cancer) and T-47D cells (ER-positive breast cancer). Many of these factors, such as chromatin accessibility and histone modifications, are predictive of ER activity in both cell lines. However, the transcription factors that predict ER activity are cell type-specific, including FOXA1 and GATA3 in T-47D cells, and ETV4 and SOX17 in Ishikawa cells. In addition, the features that predict ER binding and effects on gene expression differ, with transcription at EREs in the absence of estrogen being predictive of ER regulatory activity. A CRISPR knockout screen in Ishikawa cells, and follow-up experiments, confirm the discovery that SOX17 controls ER activity in endometrial cancer cells. These results identify important genomic features of ER binding and regulatory activity and how these features differ between endometrial cancer and breast cancer cells.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42560720
Bone marrow failure syndromes (BMFs) comprise a heterogeneous group of genetic disorders characterized by impaired hematopoiesis and multisystem involvement. Dyskeratosis congenita (DC) is a telomere biology disorder caused by defects in telomerase or telomere maintenance, leading to progressive BMF and variable extra-hematopoietic manifestations.To describe the clinical, immunologic, genetic, and telomere biology findings in a patient with DC caused by a novel biallelic telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) mutation, and to highlight diagnostic and therapeutic considerations in telomere-associated BMFs.We assessed cellular and humoral immune functions. Genetic analysis was conducted using whole-exome sequencing (WES) with segregation analysis. Telomere length was assessed by flow-FISH. Functional and radiologic evaluations were performed to define disease extent.A 2-year old male born to consanguineous parents presented with multisystemic clinical features, and hypocellular bone marrow. WES identified a novel homozygous TERT missense variant (c.3052G>A; p.Ala109Thr) supported by markedly shortened telomeres. Neuroimaging revealed cerebellar hypoplasia consistent with Hoyeraal-Hreidarsson syndrome. Immunologic evaluation demonstrated skewed CD4:CD8 ratios. An incidental heterozygous MEN1 variant was also detected.We expand the clinical and genetic spectrum of TERT-associated DC and illustrate the critical role of genomic diagnostics and telomere assessment in BMFs. Early molecular diagnosis enables targeted evaluation, informs prognosis, and guides personalized management in telomere biology disorders. In addition, the identification of actionable secondary variants further highlights both the power and complexity of comprehensive genomic testing.
We reported a rare case in which acute pulmonary thromboembolism (APTE) was the initial clinical manifestation of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1). A 44-year-old male presented with chest tightness and dyspnea, and was subsequently diagnosed with acute pulmonary embolism on computed tomography pulmonary angiography (CTPA). Medical history revealed a long-standing pituitary adenoma. During the etiologic evaluation, the patient was found to have a hypercalcemic crisis, hyperparathyroidism, and a pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor. Genetic testing confirmed a pathogenic MEN1 mutation (c.1664G>A), which established the diagnosis of MEN1. Along with regular anticoagulation therapy, the patient underwent multidisciplinary evaluation. Oral bromocriptine was continued for the pituitary adenoma, and parathyroidectomy was performed after correction of the hypercalcemic crisis. The pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor is being closely monitored, with elective surgery or somatostatin analogue therapy planned as appropriate to eliminate the underlying cause of pulmonary embolism. Through a brief literature review, we explored how MEN1 may contribute to a hypercoagulable state. The case highlighted the importance of endocrine and genetic screening in patients with unexplained pulmonary embolism.
Adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) is a rare but aggressive malignancy with poor survival and limited treatment options. To comprehensively characterize its molecular landscape and identify clinically relevant subtypes, we performed an integrated genomic analysis-including whole-exome sequencing, RNA sequencing, and copy number variation profiling-on 61 Chinese patients with ACC. We identified recurrent mutations in TP53 (25%), CTNNB1 (15%), ZNRF3 (10%), and MEN1 (8%). Unsupervised clustering of transcriptomic data revealed four distinct molecular subtypes: cortisol-driven (CD, 14%), immune-suppressed (IS, 40%), cell cycle-altered (CCA, 22%), and immunomodulatory (IM, 24%). The CD subtype exhibited steroidogenic pathway activation; the IS subtype showed T-cell receptor downregulation and the worst disease-free survival; the CCA subtype was marked by chromosomal instability and cell cycle gene overexpression; and the IM subtype displayed enriched immune signaling and favorable outcomes. Copy number analysis further uncovered focal amplifications (e.g., TERT, CDK4) and HLA-II deletions. This study establishes a novel molecular classification of ACC, providing a framework for subtype-specific therapeutic strategies, such as CDK4/6 inhibition for CCA and immunotherapy for IM tumors, while highlighting the clinical challenges of immune-cold IS tumors.© the author(s).
Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) is a rare autosomal dominant syndrome characterized by tumors in multiple endocrine tissues. Its management is challenging because of its unpredictable course, particularly regarding thymic tumors, whose prognosis remains poor.To identify the genetic factors associated with the development of thymic tumors in patients with MEN1.Nested case-control study in the Groupe d'étude des Tumeurs Endocrines and of the Association Francophone de Chirurgie Endocrinnienne cohort (>1600 patients included from the 1990s through 2024).Ambulatory and hospitalized care in referral centers.All men with a confirmed thymic tumor in the Groupe d'étude des Tumeurs Endocrines/Association Francophone de Chirurgie Endocrinnienne cohort were selected and matched to 2 nearest controls without thymic tumors, with a diagnosis of MEN1 identified at the same period (<1990; 1990-2000; ≥2000) and with an age at their last follow-up at least equal to the age of their paired case at the time of thymic tumor discovery.Development of thymic tumor.Fifty-two cases and 104 controls were included. Mean age at diagnosis of thymic tumor was 44 (SD = 11). Nonsense mutations were associated with a higher risk of thymic tumors (OR = 3.77; 95% CI, 1.36-10.50) than men with frameshift mutations. Among cases, the median age of onset of thymic tumor was almost identical between patients with a nonsense mutation and those without (43.8 vs 43.2 years, respectively).Men carrying nonsense MEN1 mutations may have an increased risk of thymic tumors and could benefit from enhanced thymic surveillance.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs) have been in use for twenty years. There have been concerns about their safety in patients with neuroendocrine neoplasms (NENs). The reports of GLP-1 receptor (GLP-1R)-driven proliferation of C-cell neoplasms in rodent studies had led to the black-box warning against their use in patients with medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) or multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 (MEN2). In this review, we have attempted to evaluate the physiological and pathological expression of GLP-1 receptors (GLP-1R) in various endocrine organs and summarise the preclinical and clinical evidence regarding the effect of GLP-1RA exposure and risk of NENs. GLP-1R expression has not only been found in nonneoplastic tissues such as neurohypophysis, duodenal glands and pancreatic islets but also in neuroendocrine tumours (NETs). Preclinical studies have demonstrated the proliferative effects of GLP-1RA in cell lines representing pancreatic NETs (panNETs) and small intestinal NETs. The available data from retrospective studies, randomized trials and cancer registries provide conflicting data and does not support a generalized increase in NENs with the use of GLP-1RA. Some epidemiological studies have even shown survival benefits associated with GLP-1RA use. In addition, significant gaps in evidence remain, such as lack of data regarding certain tumour subtypes, long-term prospective studies with NENs as the clinical endpoint and uncertainty regarding patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1). Hence, the initiation of GLP-1RA therapy in patient with predisposition to NEN where a contraindication does not exist, should be approached cautiously with careful monitoring for long-term adverse effects.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Endocrinology.
Primary hyperparathyroidism occurs in up to 95% of patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1). However, only a few cases of parathyroid carcinoma have been reported, and only one case of intrathyroidal parathyroid carcinoma. We describe the case of a 41-year-old male with a history of MEN1 and primary hyperparathyroidism who developed hypercalcemia to 13.1 mg/dL (SI: 3.3 mmol/L) (reference range [RR], 8.6-10.3 mg/dL [SI: 2.2-2.6 mmol/L]) with parathyroid hormone (PTH) 454 pg/mL (SI: 48.1 pmol/L) (RR, 15-65 pg/mL [SI: 1.6-6.9 pmol/L]). Neck ultrasonography showed a highly suspicious intrathyroidal 3.6 cm nodule. The patient had a lobectomy, and final pathology showed a 3.1 × 1.6 × 1.2 cm parathyroid carcinoma. After the surgery, calcium dropped to 6.0 mg/dL (SI: 1.5 mmol/L) with PTH of 11 pg/mL (SI: 1.2 pmol/L) requiring oral calcium supplements, calcitriol, and hydrochlorothiazide. Laboratory tests at 12 months on these medications showed calcium of 9.3 mg/dL (SI: 2.3 mmol/L) and PTH 21 pg/mL (SI: 2.2 pmol/L) indicating recovery of parathyroid function without recurrence, and calcitriol was discontinued. This case illustrates that a high index of suspicion for malignancy should be maintained for intrathyroidal parathyroid adenoma in the setting of severe hypercalcemia, especially in MEN1.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society.
Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT) is an autosomal‑dominant vascular disease characterized by telangiectasias and visceral arteriovenous malformations (AVMs), commonly in the lungs, liver, and brain. HHT is linked to mutations in the genes Activin A Receptor Like Type 1 (ACVRL1), Endoglin (ENG), and SMAD Family Member 4 (SMAD4). The ACVRL1 gene encodes the receptor ACVRL1 (Activin A Receptor Like Type 1), also known as ALK1 (Activin Receptor-Like Kinase 1), and belongs to the Transforming Growth Factor-Beta (TGFβ) Superfamily of receptors. Approximately 20% of patients with ACVRL1-associated HHT develop pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). [1] In pediatric PAH cohorts, ACVRL1 mutations account for nearly 10% of identified genetic variants. [2] The reduced penetrance of PAH among ACVRL1 mutation carriers suggests that additional modifiers account for PAH development. [3]. Given the relevance of the bone‑morphogenetic‑protein (BMP) pathway to the pathogenesis of PAH, and the intimate relationship of TGFβ superfamily signaling partners including ACVRL1 and BMPR2, genes which modify BMP-TGFβ signaling balance may contribute to PAH development in children with ACVRL1‑positive HHT. One such gene is SMAD9 (Receptor Regulated SMAD 9); the protein product of SMAD 9 (SMAD8) which mediates downstream TGFβ signaling. Herein, we report what we believe to be the youngest reported case of PAH in ACVRL1‑mediated HHT, in a patient who co‑harbors a SMAD9 mutation.© 2026 The Author(s). Pulmonary Circulation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Pulmonary Vascular Research Institute.
A 31-year-old female patient with a 4-year history of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) presented with abdominal pain and weight loss that she had been experiencing over the past 6 months. Somatostatin receptor (SSTR) scintigraphy using 99mTc-HYNIC-TOC revealed increased uptake in the known pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor as well as diffuse increased uptake in bilateral lactating breasts. This case highlights physiological upregulation of somatostatin receptor expression in a lactating breast.
(1) Background: KMT2A (alias MLL) is located at chromosome 11q23 and encodes histone methyltransferase 2A which activates target genes via chromatin methylation of histone H3 lysine K4. Mutations of KMT2A, including partial tandem duplication (PTD) and fusion with partner genes, are present in both lymphoid and myeloid acute leukemia. More than 100 various KMT2A fusion genes have been described, with only a minority represented by cell line models. (2) Methods: Cytogenetic and genomic copy number analyses, PCR, Western blot and RNA-sequencing were performed to characterize aberrations in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cell line KOPM-88. Bioinformatic analysis of public AML patient data revealed differentially expressed genes. Functional analyses were performed by siRNA-mediated knockdown and live-cell imaging. (3) Results: The AML cell line KOPM-88 is derived from a boy at relapse and has been reported to carry t(X;11)(q24;q23), albeit with uncharacterized breakpoints. In KOPM-88 we identified fusion gene KMT2A::SEPTIN6 generated by this translocation, but excluded KMT2A-PTD. KMT2A::SEPTIN6 activated bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-signalling and inhibited expression of HOXA7 and HOXA9. BMP signalling in turn activated cell proliferation and inhibited CDKN2B expression. (4) Conclusions: KOPM-88 contains fusion gene KMT2A::SEPTIN6, representing the only cell line model for this rare type of KMT2A rearrangement. KOPM-88 may serve to advance novel therapeutic treatments for KMT2A::SEPTIN6-positive AML.
Pathogenic variants in the genes encoding the non-canonical TGFB signaling components TAK1 (MAP3K7), TAB2 and PKA-Cα (PRKACA) cause rare multisystem disorders, which may include congenital heart disease (CHD). To investigate the role of TAK1 signaling in CHD, we performed genetic analysis of CHD patients and discovered an increased burden of rare TAB2 and TAK1 variants in patients with extracardiac abnormalities. To address the mechanism of TAK1 in heart development, we performed experiments in cell and animal models. Zebrafish tak1 and tab2 mutants presented with cardiac and extracardiac developmental defects, and tak1 mutant hearts showed downregulation of genes encoding core cardiac transcription factors, sarcomeric proteins and extracellular matrix proteins. In vitro experiments indicated that TAK1 via TAB2 and PKA-Cα is activated at the primary cilium during cardiomyogenesis; activation at this site is enhanced by TGFB/BMP ligands. Inactivation of TAK1 inhibited ciliary signaling and cardiomyocyte differentiation, and patient-derived TAK1 variants reduced its ciliary localization. In conclusion, our data establish a pivotal role for TAK1 and its upstream regulators at the primary cilium in heart development and syndromic CHD.Copyright: © 2026 Doganli et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Intestinal barrier is the body's largest immune structure and essential for nutrient absorption. Its dysfunction allows the translocation of pathogenic substances into circulation, thereby driving the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Plant-derived exosome-like nanovesicles (ELNs), recognized for their biocompatibility and ability to traverse biological barriers, hold considerable potential for managing intestinal inflammation. Specially, plants cultivated under extreme environmental conditions typically adapt to be stress resistant with greater accumulation of associated biologics, which may in-turn confer unique bioactivities to their respective ELNs.This study investigated the protective effects and mechanisms of ELNs derived from the extremophyte Rosa roxburghii (R-ELNs) and Artemisia sphaerocephala Krasch (A-ELNs) against intestinal barrier dysfunction. In vitro and in vivo studies indicated that the ELNs, especially R-ELNs, provided enhanced protection against intestinal barrier dysfunction. Specifically, mucus secretion and tight junction protein expression were promoted, and macrophages were polarized toward M2 anti-inflammatory phenotypes. Furthermore, R-ELNs modulated the composition of the intestinal microbiota, thereby promoting a balanced microecological environment. Importantly, the protective effect of R-ELNs was suggested to be through an inhibitory effect on excessive activation of pro-inflammatory signaling proteins (AKT, p38). Notably, exosomes (Exos) derived from R-ELN-treated M2 macrophages had distinct miRNA profiles that can target inflammatory pathway genes (Tgfbr1, Map3k7, Met), enabling anti-inflammatory roles via intercellular communication.These findings suggested that R-ELNs can restore intestinal barrier dysfunction via multiple synergistic mechanisms, positioning R-ELNs as a novel and promising preventive strategy for inflammatory bowel disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
VPS37A, a subunit of ESCRT-I involved in endosomal sorting and autophagy, is frequently downregulated in diverse human cancers. In this study, we showed that VPS37A downregulation, as part of a large chromosome 8p deletion, arises early during tumorigenesis and persists throughout tumor progression. Integrative analysis of VPS37A gene copy number and CRISPR dependency revealed that VPS37A deficiency creates a synthetic lethal dependency on the MAP3K7-NF-κB-CFLAR axis, and targeting this axis triggered CASP8-mediated apoptosis and suppressed tumor growth. This synthetic vulnerability depends on ATG8ylated membranes, which serve as a platform for CASP8 activation upon inhibition of phagophore closure, and can be triggered without disrupting receptor sorting. Consistently, despite frequent co-deletion of VPS37A and the death receptors TNFRSF10A/B, inhibition of the MAP3K7-NF-κB-CFLAR axis selectively induced apoptosis in spheroid tumors with 8p deletion. These results uncover a selective vulnerability in cancer cells harboring VPS37A/8p loss, providing a mechanistic rationale for targeted therapeutic intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
Immune dysregulation (ID), defined as aberrant immune activation or suppression, may result in autoimmune or inflammatory disorders, lymphoproliferative malignancies, and allergic diseases. Apoptosis, nuclear factor-κB, and phosphoinositide 3-kinase pathways are major pathways involved in ID. This study aimed to assess ID using targeted inflammatory gene-expression profiles in comparison with controls. We grouped patients according to presenting features: autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome (Group 1), immune cytopenia (Group 2), and EBV-associated lymphoproliferation (Group 3). We established real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis for selected genes (CASP8, CASP10, FAS, FASL, AKT, MAP3K7, MAP3K14, mTOR, NFKB1, NFKB2, NFKBIA, and TRAF3) involved in inflammatory pathways, and calculated gene expression fold changes using the logarithmic Delta-Delta Ct (2^(-delta delta CT)) method. The median age of symptom onset in Group 1 (n = 10), Group 2 (n = 12), and Group 3 (n = 10) was 9.3 (0.5-38.7), 5.7 (0.7-19), and 22.5 (0.7-45) years, respectively (P = 0.181). The median age at hospital admission was 12 (1.9-38.7), 9.4 (2.3-35), and 34.8 (0.9-54.7) years in Groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively (P = 0.152). There was a significant difference between patient and control groups (P < 0.05), but none among patient groups regarding targeted gene expression (relative quantification values). According to ROC curve analysis, the most discriminative target genes are NFKB2, MAP3K7, AKT, mTOR, NFKB1, and FAS. We propose an ID signature that includes targeted gene expression profiles (NFKB1, NFKB2, MAP3K7, AKT, mTOR, and FAS) and suggest using these specific gene expressions as a biomarker for diagnosis and therapy response in ID.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of British Society of Immunology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Aging is frequently associated with a progressive loss of physiological integrity, with immunosenescence and chronic inflammation playing pivotal roles in this process. While natural compounds like Dihydromyricetin (DHM) exhibit significant anti-aging potential, its precise upstream immunomodulatory targets and cross-species conservation remain largely elusive. Through a combination of transcriptomic analyses and cross-species assays, we demonstrated that DHM systematically downregulates basal antimicrobial peptide expression to resolve chronic inflammaging in Drosophila, while simultaneously maintaining robust acute pathogen clearance. Furthermore, DHM significantly suppressed the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) in a mammalian H₂O₂-induced stress-induced premature senescence (SIPS) model. Crucially, genetic silencing revealed that the immune-regulatory kinase TAK1 (and its mammalian homolog MAP3K7) is fundamentally required for the lifespan-extending benefits of DHM in Drosophila and mediates the suppression of key SASP components, such as IL-1β and IL-8, in mammalian fibroblasts. These findings suggest that the TAK1/MAP3K7 axis serves as a crucial conserved node mediating a significant portion of DHM's cross-species anti-aging effects. This study underscores the therapeutic potential of targeting the TAK1 axis with natural compounds to combat age-related immune dysregulation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Abdominal pain is a hallmark symptom of both inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and substantially impairs patients' quality of life. Relaxation response-based mind-body intervention (RR-MBI) has been reported to improve disease-specific outcomes and pain catastrophizing in both disorders, accompanied by whole-blood transcriptomic changes. However, the transcriptional features potentially relevant to abdominal pain before and after RR-MBI in IBS and IBD remain insufficiently explored. In this context, this study aimed to analyze these transcriptional changes and prioritize putative abdominal pain-relevant candidate genes from exploratory differentially expressed gene (DEG) sets.Gene expression data (GSE66824) were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). Whole-blood gene expression profiles were analyzed from 14 IBS and 19 IBD patients, with samples collected before and after a 9-week RR-MBI. Exploratory DEG sets were identified using GEO2R outputs with nominal P < 0.05 and absolute fold-change magnitude (AFC) ≥ 1.2. Functional enrichment analyses were performed using DAVID. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks were constructed using STRING and visualized in Cytoscape. Putative abdominal pain-relevant candidate genes were prioritized from exploratory DEG sets within PPI/MCODE modules based on network position, matching module genes to the DisGeNET disease entry "pain", and targeted pain-related literature annotation.(1) In IBD post-MBI, 649 exploratory DEGs were identified, with enrichment of neurotrophin and TGF-β signaling pathways; MAP3K7, SLC12A2, and FKBP5 were prioritized as candidate genes. (2) In IBS post-MBI, 175 exploratory DEGs were identified, with enrichment of glutamatergic synapse and calcium signaling pathways; network analysis highlighted NTRK2, FKBP5, and AR as candidate genes. (3) At baseline, 836 exploratory DEGs were identified, with enrichment in pathways including p53 signaling and NOD-like receptor signaling; notable prioritized candidate genes included TRAF6 and TNFSF11.Prioritized genes after RR-MBI and in the baseline comparison may represent putative abdominal pain-relevant candidate transcriptional signals in IBS and IBD. These exploratory findings require validation in independent cohorts with matched individual-level pain-related outcomes and functional studies.© 2026 Lin et al.
Proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR) is a major cause of blindness. Surgery remains the primary clinical intervention, but its outcomes are frequently unsatisfactory. A deeper understanding of PVR pathophysiology is therefore essential for developing new treatments. TRAF6 is a multifunctional intracellular adaptor protein that regulates diverse biological processes, yet its role in PVR is unknown. Here, we investigated the function of TRAF6 in PVR and its downstream mechanisms using a mouse model and ARPE-19 cells. The results demonstrated that TRAF6 expression was upregulated in the retinas of PVR model mice and in ARPE-19 cells. Knockdown of TRAF6 alleviated PVR progression in mice by suppressing inflammation and the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells. Conversely, TRAF6 overexpression in ARPE-19 cells exacerbated TGF-β1-induced EMT. Mechanistically, TRAF6 positively regulated MAP3K7 expression via a protein-protein interaction. Knockdown of TRAF6 inhibited P38/MAPK signaling pathway activation by reducing MAP3K7 expression. Furthermore, knockdown of TRAF6 attenuated the promoting effect of MAP3K7 overexpression on TGF-β1-induced EMT in RPE cells. In conclusion, TRAF6 knockdown protects against PVR in mice by inhibiting the MAP3K7 and p38 MAPK pathways.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Splicing is governed by interactions between the spliceosome and precursor RNA sequence and structural elements. However, the relative contributions of RNA sequence and structural elements remain unclear. Here, we systematically dissect these determinants using a high-throughput mutagenesis approach with the MAP3K7 intron reporter. The MAP3K7 gene encodes a serine/threonine kinase involved in response to environmental stress. MAP3K7 precursor RNA contains a cryptic 3' splice site that increases in use when the core spliceosomal protein SF3B1 is mutated. SF3B1 mutations are known to promote aberrant splicing and are associated with cancer, particularly the lysine 700 to glutamate mutation (K700E). We designed a pooled library of 249 MAP3K7 mutants targeting branch points, RNA-binding protein motifs, nucleotide composition and predicted structural elements. The impact of these mutants on splicing was measured in the context of normal and SF3B1 K700E expression. RNA structure was assessed in parallel using in vitro high-throughput SHAPE-MAP chemical probing. We found that branchpoint mutations drive the strongest increases in cryptic splice-site use. There is no overall correlation between cryptic splice-site use and structural similarity to the wild-type MAP3K7 RNA. However, mutants within an RNA binding protein hotspot (containing U2AF2, U2AF1, KHSRP and SRSF2 sites) are associated with cryptic splice-site use and structural similarity to wild-type MAP3K7 RNA. These structural changes are associated with increased ensemble diversity. Our results demonstrate that although there are key structured regions within an RNA, there is also extensive variability where divergent RNA structures allow for accurate splicing.
Nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) signaling plays a central role in inflammation, immunity, cell survival, and cancer progression. Its constitutive activation is frequently observed in breast cancer, contributing to tumor growth, treatment resistance, and metastasis. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are key post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression and may modulate NF-κB signaling in a subtype-specific or -independent manner. The aim of the study was to identify miRNAs that may potentially regulate the activity of genes associated with NF-κB signaling across five molecular subtypes of breast cancer in Polish women. Tumor and matched normal tissue samples were collected from 405 patients with five breast cancer subtypes: luminal A (n = 130), HER2-negative luminal B (n = 100), HER2-positive luminal B (n = 96), non-luminal HER2-positive (n = 36), and triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC, n = 43). Expression profile of selected NF-κB-related genes were evaluated using mRNA microarrays and RT-qPCR. Protein levels were assessed by ELISA. Candidate regulatory miRNAs were identified via miRNA microarrays and validated using the miRDB database. A consistent upregulation of MAP3K7, TAB2, TNFAIP3, CSNK2A1, BCL2L1, XIAP, CXCL2, and PLAU was observed across all subtypes, suggesting activation of canonical NF-κB signaling. Downregulation of specific miRNAs, miR-1297 and miR-30a (targeting MAP3K7), miR-134 (TAB2), miR-125b (TNFAIP3), and miR-4329 (XIAP), may contribute to this deregulation. For CSNK2A1, BCL2L1, CXCL2, and PLAU, no regulatory miRNAs meeting our criteria were identified. Our study reveals a subtype-independent activation of the canonical NF-κB signaling pathway in breast cancer, underpinned by consistent upregulation of key components (at both the transcript and protein levels. Dysregulation of specific miRNAs likely contributes to this altered gene expression. These findings suggest the presence of a common NF-κB-driven oncogenic program across molecular subtypes, with potential implications for developing miRNA-based therapeutic strategies targeting inflammation, survival signaling, and treatment resistance in breast cancer.
Targeting the transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) pathway to reverse the immunologically "cold" tumor microenvironment of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remains clinically unsuccessful, warranting novel therapeutic strategies.We performed multiplex immunohistochemistry on human PDAC samples to correlate cell-type-specific TGF-β pathway activation and CD8+ T-cell abundance and developed a tumor and T-cell coculture to interrogate the TGF-β pathways that promote T-cell-mediated cytotoxicity. We employed newly generated genetically engineered mouse models and a specific pathway inhibitor and confirmed our findings using single-cell RNA sequencing, flow cytometry, and multiplex immunohistochemistry. We performed proteomics and various in vitro and in vivo assays to establish the mechanisms.We found TGF-β-activated kinase 1 (TAK1, Map3k7) to be aberrantly activated in PDAC cells and correlates with T-cell dysfunction. Pharmacological inhibition with Takinib, or genetic deletion of tumor Map3k7 in an autochthonous p48-Cre/Trp53f/f/LSL-KrasG12D genetically engineered mouse model, enhances CD4+ and CD8+ effector T-cell infiltration and renders immune checkpoint blockade effective. Mechanistically, TAK1 inhibition induces DNA damage and cytoplasmic DNA leakage, which activates the cyclic GMP-AMP synthase-Stimulator of Interferon Genes DNA sensing pathway, triggering inflammatory responses that promote adaptive immune cell infiltration. At the molecular level, TAK1 phosphorylates Ephrin Receptor A2 at Serine 897, which in turn phosphorylates RAD51 at Tyrosine 315, a key DNA repair protein involved in homologous recombination.We uncover TAK1 as a critical mediator in maintaining genomic integrity and highlight its potential as a therapeutic target to induce an inflamed tumor microenvironment that sensitizes PDAC to immune checkpoint blockade.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Synaptotagmin-binding cytoplasmic RNA-interacting protein (SYNCRIP) is an RNA-binding protein (RBP) implicated in the pathogenesis of various cancers through involvement in regulating multiple cellular processes. Notably, this study identified that SYNCRIP expression is significantly elevated in glioblastoma (GBM) and is associated with poor prognosis and tumor progression. Mechanistically, SYNCRIP upregulates SIRT1 expression at both the transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels by stabilizing SIRT1 mRNA. Meanwhile, loss of SYNCRIP leads to reduced SIRT1 expression, accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), and induction of ferroptosis. Notably, restoration of SIRT1 rescues cells from ferroptotic cell death, supporting the critical role of SIRT1 in SYNCRIP-mediated ferroptosis resistance. SYNCRIP also enhances hexokinase 2 (HK2) expression through transcriptional activation and internal ribosome entry site (IRES)-mediated translation, thereby promoting glycolytic activity in GBM. Furthermore, depletion of SYNCRIP results in mitochondrial dysfunction and impairs GBM cell migration and invasion by downregulating epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-associated factors. Collectively, these findings suggest that SYNCRIP is a key regulator of GBM progression by maintaining metabolic homeostasis and ferroptosis resistance, highlighting SYNCRIP as a potential therapeutic target in GBM.© The author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511805 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42352254 is a review article
Small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) are critical mediators of tumor microenvironment communication, largely through the selective transfer of microRNAs (miRNAs) that reprogram recipient cells. Active miRNA sorting into sEVs depends on RNA‑binding proteins (RBPs), sequence determinants, and RNA modifications. Here, a functional interplay between the RBP SYNCRIP and N6‑methyladenosine (m6A) RNA methylation controlling miRNA loading into hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC)‑derived sEVs has been disclosed. It is reported that (i) METTL3 (Methyltransferase-like-3)‑dependent m6A modification is required for efficient binding of SYNCRIP to specific miRNAs, thereby enabling their selective incorporation into sEVs; (ii) silencing of SYNCRIP markedly reshapes the sEV miRNA-cargo and impairs the ability of HCC‑derived sEVs to induce epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in non‑tumorigenic hepatocytes. Notably, (iii) depletion of METTL3 produces an even stronger effect, indicating that m6A methylation represents an upstream and essential determinant of SYNCRIP‑mediated miRNA export. Mechanistically, the data identify SYNCRIP as an m6A‑dependent miRNA reader, adding epitranscriptomic regulation to sequence‑based miRNA sorting into sEVs. Functionally, disruption of this interaction attenuates sEV‑driven EMT and pro‑tumorigenic signaling. Collectively, these findings uncover a novel regulatory axis governing sEV miRNA cargo selection and highlight the m6A-SYNCRIP interplay as a potential therapeutic target to interfere with sEV‑mediated tumor progression and metastasis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Eggs of many species accumulate thousands of dormant mRNAs that are translated after fertilization at specific times and locations to direct development. However, how embryos coordinate translation of these mRNAs remains unclear. In this study, we identify sequential waves of translation critical for proper development progression. The first wave occurs within 1 h and includes translation of ewsr1b mRNA that harbors a short 3' untranslated region (UTR) comprising 16 nucleotides. The resulting Ewsr1b protein triggers the second translation wave through binding cytoplasmic mRNAs, including pou5f3, which encodes a transcription factor promoting zygotic genome activation. In contrast, HuR and Syncrip repress translation until the first and second waves, respectively. ewsr1b mRNA that has a long 3' UTR is translated in the second wave, and the 3' UTR's length determines protein localization and function. Overall, our findings reveal previously unknown molecular principles that coordinate translation timings and protein functions to drive long-term, multilayered processes.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Identifying reliable biomarkers for prion diseases remains a challenge, particularly for early detection in accessible body fluids. A recent mass spectrometry study on the cerebrospinal fluid proteome identified and validated five proteins significantly dysregulated in the preclinical stage of naturally scrapie-affected sheep. In this study, we quantified these proteins in serum and analysed their distribution and gene expression in the central nervous system, correlating these results with characteristic prion-related neuropathological features. Significantly elevated serum levels of synaptotagmin binding, cytoplasmic RNA interacting protein (SYNCRIP), phospholipase D3 (PLD3) and cathepsin D (CTSD) were detected in preclinical animals, mirroring previous cerebrospinal fluid findings. Central nervous system analyses on these three proteins together with osteopontin (SPP1) and complement component 4 (C4) revealed early and region-specific reduced immunoreactivity alongside upregulated gene expression in scrapie-affected animals, correlating significantly with prion-associated neuropathological features. Together, these findings highlight the potential of SYNCRIP, PLD3 and CTSD as promising minimally invasive biomarkers to diagnose prion diseases from the preclinical stage and provide new insights into the spatiotemporal regulation of the five proteins in the central nervous system throughout the progression of disease. Further research is needed to clarify the peripheral biomarker dynamics in relation to the neurodegenerative pathology.© 2026. The Author(s).
Preterm birth (PTB, < 37 weeks of gestation) is a major public health concern in the United States, with Black women experiencing a higher incidence compared to White women. Although some studies have identified social, medical, and obstetric risk factors for PTB, the biological mechanisms underlying spontaneous PTB (sPTB) risk remain unclear. We conducted a secondary analysis using data from Black participants enrolled in the Nulliparous Pregnancy Outcomes Study: Monitoring Mothers-to-be (nuMoM2b), (n = 1073) from 2010 to 2013. Peripheral whole blood samples were collected from all participants between 6 + 0/7 and 13 + 6/7 weeks of gestation. Demographic, behavioral and clinical data were gathered through surveys, and pregnancy outcomes were obtained through chart abstraction. We used the Infinium Methylation EPIC v2.0 BeadChip for epigenome-wide association (EWAS) of DNA methylation and sPTB.We identified 19 differentially methylated CpGs associated with sPTB, 17 CpGs were mapped to 27 annotated genes including CASR (cg19108881), KLF2/ KLF2-DT (cg18473733), SNX14/SYNCRIP (cg25689730), FBXO2 (cg04872402), HPAT5/LOC102725048 (cg12798411), RTN4RL1/LOC105371486 (cg03098704), SETD4 (cg25826287), SLC25A16 (cg15165108), CLYBL/CLYBL-AS3 (cg12328625), HES7 (cg09601704), SLC67A1/ SLC67A1-AS (cg05919744), ATP2A3 (cg12120292), PSMB8/PSMB8-AS1/ PSMB9, TAP2 (cg24031377), SLCO3A1 (cg05111081), KIAA1671 (cg26144263), ALDH4A1 (cg 12,092,708), and GUCD1 and SNRPD3 (cg11895717). Functional enrichment analysis revealed molecular functions related to enzymatic protein degradation (threonine peptidases) and energy-dependent transport of substances across membranes and biological processes including cellular transport and vascular regulation, which may influence early embryonic development and contribute to sPTB risk.Our study identified potential epigenetic alterations associated with sPTB risk and highlighted candidate genes, molecular functions, and biological processes that may serve as predictors in pregnant Black women. Future research should examine larger samples of Black women and include social determinants of health (SDOH) such as individual- and structural- racism to explain racial disparities in methylation patterns. There is a need for larger studies that examine the interactions between SDOH and epigenomic mechanisms underlying adverse birth outcomes.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cell competition, the context-dependent cell elimination phenomenon via short-range cell-cell interactions, was originally described in Drosophila, where heterozygous ribosomal protein (Rp+/-) mutant cells are outcompeted by wild-type neighbors. The transcription factor Xrp1 mediates most Rp+/- phenotypes, including reduced translation and competitiveness, yet how RpS12 induces Xrp1 was unclear. We show that RpS12 promotes a splice variant of Xrp1 encoding the Xrp1short isoform, which defines the Rp+/- loser identity. RpS12 overexpression is sufficient to induce Xrp1short and confer loser status. Expression of either Xrp1short or Xrp1long isoform can trigger competition, establishing Xrp1 as the central driver of the loser fate. When the number of losers exceeds a critical threshold, a quorum-like response supports their survival by post-transcriptionally downregulating Xrp1. We identify the RNA-binding protein Syncrip, reduced in Rp+/- cells, as an Xrp1 regulator whose depletion activates Xrp1short-dependent competition. Therefore, RpS12-dependent Xrp1short expression emerges as the primary Rp+/- signal initiating cell competition.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Stress granules (SGs) are membraneless ribonucleoprotein condensates that form under stress and dissolve during recovery. While assembly mechanisms are well characterized, the temporal organization of disassembly remains incompletely understood. Here, we performed time-resolved proximity proteomics across SG disassembly (0-50 min recovery; n = 3) using G3BP1 as bait, identifying 79 proteins with robust temporal dynamics. Unsupervised clustering resolved five kinetic modules: early-increase, early-decrease/late-increase, transient-drop at ∼40 min, early-decrease, and zig-zag patterns. The transient-drop module was enriched for RNA-processing factors, consistent with transient changes in RNA-processing factor engagement. SYNCRIP, an hnRNP family protein in the early-decrease/late-increase module, showed characteristic biphasic dynamics during recovery. Functional validation demonstrated that SYNCRIP knockdown specifically impairs late-phase SG clearance-increasing granule size at 50 min recovery-without affecting formation. Together, our data provide a modular temporal map of SG disassembly and establish SYNCRIP as a functionally validated factor required for late-phase clearance.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
DNAJC13 was initially linked to autosomal dominant (AD) Parkinson's disease (PD) in a European Mennonite family carrying the p.N855S variant. However, imperfect segregation and conflicting reports of pathogenicity raised uncertainty of the role of DNAJC13 in the disease.The objective for this study was to explore the association between common and rare variants in DNAJC13 and PD.We leveraged the largest available PD genetics data from the Accelerating Medicines Partnership-Parkinson Disease and the diverse ancestry available through the Global Parkinson's Genetics Program (GP2), consisting of 2471 patients and 3098 control subjects and 44,186 patients and 27,066 control subjects, respectively, to perform burden tests and association tests for rare and common variants, respectively.Burden analysis showed no association between rare variants in DNAJC13 and PD. However, association analysis within common nonsynonymous variants nominated five variants within DNAJC13. Nevertheless, these associations require further investigation.Our analysis did not find further evidence supporting DNAJC13 involvement in PD. However, studies of even larger cohorts and AD-PD families may bring definite answers about the role of DNAJC13 in PD. © 2026 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.© 2026 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.
After endocytosis, transmembrane cargo reaches sorting endosomes where it is partitioned into physically distinct recycling or degradative microdomains. While the J-domain protein RME-8/DNAJC13 is known to maintain these boundaries by actively removing degradative machinery from the recycling microdomain, other factors that contribute to this spatial organization remain poorly defined. Here, we identify the conserved tetraspan protein SCM-1/SCAMP as a key microdomain organizer, discovered through RME-8 proximity-dependent biotinylation screens in C. elegans and human cells. Leveraging the large endosomes of C. elegans coelomocytes, we show that SCM-1 is selectively enriched within the recycling microdomain. In scm-1 mutants, recycling and degradative microdomains still assemble but fail to remain spatially distinct, resulting in inappropriate microdomain overlap. This loss of boundary integrity occurs without increasing the recruitment of sorting machineries, indicating a mechanism distinct from the RME-8-mediated uncoating pathway. scm-1 mutants exhibit significant sorting defects, including misrouting of recycling cargo MIG-14/Wls and v-SNARE SNB-2/VAMP3 to late endosomes and lysosomes. We find that snb-2 mutants themselves missort MIG-14 to late endosomes and lysosomes, suggesting that SNB-2 sorting is key for recycling function. Our data suggest that both microdomains lose efficiency in scm-1 mutants, as cargo missorted into late endosomes and lysosomes is not depleted overall, and degradation of an independent ESCRT-dependent cargo is delayed. We conclude that SCM-1 ensures endosomal sorting fidelity by stabilizing microdomain boundary integrity, a process required for efficient recycling and degradation of transmembrane cargo.
Recent studies suggested that genetic mutations in the DNAJC family might elevate the risk of Parkinson's disease (PD). Nevertheless, the role of some DNAJC genes in PD remains controversial, and previous studies lacked downstream research. In this study, we aim to explore the relationship between DNAJC family genes and PD in a European cohort through a comprehensive method.Rare variants were identified by whole-exome sequencing from a cohort of 403 PD patients and 182 healthy controls. Fisher's exact test was conducted to assess the allelic associations. Gene-based burden analysis was conducted to detect the enrichment effect of mutations in DNAJC genes. Mendelian randomization was performed to explore the association of gene expression levels with PD risk. Finally, colocalization analysis was used to explore the shared genetic structure of DNAJC and PD.In total, we identified 464 rare variants, 437 of which were significant at the allele level. At the gene level, rare variants in 7 genes (DNAJC1, DNAJC6, DNAJC10, DNAJC11, DNAJC13, DNAJC16 and DNAJC27) were enriched in PD patients. At the gene expression level, a positive causal association of DNAJC13 with PD was revealed. Colocalization analysis reinforced the genetic associations of DNAJC13 and DNAJC19 with PD risk by identifying shared variants.We provided convergent genetic evidence supporting DNAJC13 as a susceptibility gene for PD. We presented the first evidence that rare variants in DNAJC1, DNAJC11 and DNAJC16 were enriched in PD patients, and replicated the previously reported associations of DNAJC6, DNAJC10 and DNAJC27 with PD.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
BackgroundPhysical exercise shows neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory effects in Alzheimer's disease (AD) models, but whether it modulates neuroinflammation through regulation of peripheral T-cell activity is still unresolved.ObjectiveThe present study aimed to explore the mechanisms by which aerobic exercise regulates peripheral T cell-mediated immune responses and their potential contribution to neuroinflammation in AD.MethodsMale wild-type mice and APP/PS1 transgenic mice were divided into four groups: wild-type sedentary mice (WT-SE) group, wild-type exercise group (WT-EX), APP/PS1 transgenic AD sedentary mice (AD-SE) group, and APP/PS1 transgenic AD exercise mice (AD-EX) group. The sedentary groups received no exercise training, while the exercise groups underwent a 3-month treadmill aerobic exercise intervention. At the end of the intervention, T lymphocytes were isolated from spleens. Label-free proteomics combined with LC-MS/MS was used to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and perform functional and pathway enrichment analyses. Differentially expressed protein-coding genes were validated at the mRNA level using RT-qPCR.ResultsA total of 3399 proteins were quantified across the four groups. Applying a threshold of |log2 fold change| > 0.67 and q-value < 0.05, 913 DEPs were identified. These DEPs were significantly enriched in biological processes including immune system processes, protein-containing complexes, and structural molecule activity, as well as signaling pathways including AD, TGF-β, and apoptosis.ConclusionsOverall, HSP90AB1, HSP90AA1, BAG5, DNAJC8, CTSD, and ANXA1 may play a role in peripheral T-cell immune dysregulation in AD, with potential implications for central neuroinflammation. Furthermore, the beneficial effects of aerobic exercise on AD-related peripheral immune alterations, and its potential modulation of neuroinflammation, may be associated with expression changes in DEPs including Ppp2r1b, Pde2a, Casp8, Apaf-1, Dnajb11, and Dnajc13.
CD47 is a key innate immune checkpoint that enables tumor cells to evade macrophage-mediated clearance.To systematically identify genetic regulators of CD47 surface expression, we performed FACS-based genome-wide CRISPR screens in three murine cancer cell lines B16 (melanoma), MC38 (colon adenocarcinoma), and EMT6 (breast carcinoma).Comparative analysis of cells with high or low CD47 surface expression using DrugZ revealed CD47 itself as the top hit, validating the screens. Notably, DNAJC13 emerged as a consistent and robust regulator of CD47 expression across all three cell lines. Functional validation using DNAJC13-knockout cells confirmed a significant reduction in CD47 surface levels. Furthermore, in co-culture assays with macrophages, DNAJC13-deficient tumor cells exhibited increased susceptibility to phagocytosis, supporting a functional role for DNAJC13 in innate immune evasion. Finally, we verify that DNAJC13-knockout decrease tumor burden when treated with CD47 blockade.Overall, this study highlights a previously unrecognized regulator of CD47 and demonstrates the utility of high-throughput FACS-based CRISPR screening to uncover modulators of key immune checkpoint pathways.Copyright © 2026 Yin, He, Wang, Zhang, Huang, Yan, Li, Feng, Saenz, Zhang, Zhu, Yang, Ma, Fu and Chen.
Dysfunction of the dopaminergic reward system has been implicated in the pathophysiology of several neuropsychiatric disorders. The endosomal network encompasses important processes related to neurotransmission in dopamine neurons, e.g., endocytosis, sorting, recycling and degradation of receptors. We investigated whether genetic variation influencing the endosomal sorting machinery, in particular cargo selection and membrane tubulation, may impact on the activation strength in key regions of the mesolimbic reward system, i.e. the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and the nucleus accumbens (NAcc). To test our hypothesis, VTA and NAcc responses to conditioned reward stimuli were investigated using the 'desire-reason-dilemma' paradigm during functional magnetic resonance imaging in humans. Association of these neural responses with a set of genetic variants related to endosomal sorting processes (SNX1, SNX6, WASHC2C, WASHC3, WASHC4, DNAJC13) were tested in two independent cohorts (N = 182; N = 214). In the first cohort, the gene set was associated with both VTA and NAcc responses to conditioned reward stimuli [empirical P-values: R-VTA: 0.0036; R-NAcc: 0.0016; L-NAcc: 0.0094]. At the level of the gene set, the effect in the R-VTA could be replicated in the second cohort [empirical P-value: R-VTA: 0.0443]. For the NAcc, an additional exploratory analysis of a patient-only subcohort of the first cohort (N = 64) suggested that the gene set may express its effect in this brain region predominantly in patients. These findings provide first evidence that the endosomal sorting processes cargo selection and membrane tubulation may influence neural responses of the reward system to conditioned stimuli.© 2025. Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Rationale: Gastric cancer (GC) with ovarian metastasis (OM) represents a distinct subtype of peritoneal metastasis in female patients, characterized by limited therapeutic options and poor prognosis, with molecular features and mechanisms that remain unknown. Methods: We performed whole-exome sequencing (WES) analysis of matched GC samples, with OM or peritoneal metastasis (PM), to identify mutational profiles that contribute to OM. We further validate these findings through in vitro and in vivo experiments. Results: We characterized specific mutated genes in GC with OM, including FLCN, DNAJC13, DSC3, SLC9A3, ADGRV1, SCAPER, and ARHGEF12. Moreover, these genomic mutations are recurrent in both GC and ovarian cancer. We further identified the E620K mutation of ARHGEF12, a Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor, as a novel risk locus in GC with OM. Ectopic expression of the E620K mutant increased cell migration, invasion and colony formation in vitro, as well as OM in animals bearing GC xenograft tumors. Mechanistically, ARHGEF12 E620K mutation upregulated ITGA6 expression through Rap1 signaling pathway activation and promoted tumor-derived ITGA6-high exosome formation, which were preferentially uptaken by ovarian fibroblasts. Reciprocally, ovarian fibroblasts educated by ITGA6-high exosomes exhibited cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) phenotypes and enhanced tumor cell proliferation, thereby initiating the early stage of pre-metastatic niche formation. Conclusions: Our study provides comprehensive clinical exome profiling, identifies ARHGEF12 mutation as a new driver, and reveals that ITGA6 acts as an early predictive marker in GC with OM.© The author(s).
Endosomes are a central sorting hub for membrane cargos. DNAJC13/RME-8 plays a critical role in endosomal trafficking by regulating the endosomal recycling and degradative pathways. DNAJC13 localizes to endosomes through its N-terminal Pleckstrin Homology (PH)-like domain, which binds endosomal phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate (PI(3)P). However, little is known about how DNAJC13 localization is regulated. Here, we show that two regions within DNAJC13, its J domain and disordered C-terminus, act as negative regulators of its PH-like domain. Using a structure-function approach, we map these control points to a conserved YLT motif in the disordered C-terminus as well as the catalytic HPD triad in its J domain. Mutation of either motif enhances DNAJC13 endosomal localization in cells and increases binding to PI(3)P in vitro, and overexpression of these mutants cause multiple defects in endosome function, including endosomal clustering and loss of recycling of a membrane protein cargo. Mechanistically, the enhanced endosomal localization of DNAJC13 requires its N-terminal PH-like domain, and we show that the PH-like domain of DNAJC13 binds PI(3)P weakly in isolation and requires oligomerization for efficient PI(3)P binding and endosomal localization. Together, these results demonstrate that interaction between DNAJC13 and PI(3)P serves as a molecular control point for regulating DNAJC13 localization to endosomes.
While Parkinson's disease has a multifactorial etiology, 5%-10% of cases present with identifiable disease-causing gene mutations. Further investigation into these mutations is a way to identify underlying pathologic mechanism. One of the rare Parkinson-associated genes is DNAJC13, coding for an endosome-associated protein. Several lines of evidence suggest that disturbed endosomal pathways are instrumental in the development of Parkinson pathology. Recently, we have shown that DNAJC13/RME-8 is a positive modulator of autophagy, a lysosome-associated degradative process. Here, we further characterize the role of the disease-linked DNAJC13(N855S) mutant and perform biochemical, cell biological, co-localization, and expression analysis by employing a newly established cell line with reduced DNAJC13 expression and by transiently expressing the DNAJC13(N855S) mutant variant. We observed that the DNAJC13(N855S) variant is less stable than the wild-type protein and might thus impact proteostasis. Furthermore, the protein has functional deficits as it cannot compensate for the impaired autophagic activity in cells with chronically reduced DNAJC13 levels. In addition, the DNAJC13(N855S) showed a dominant negative effect on the distribution of the cation-independent mannose-6-phosphate receptor without affecting overall cathepsin D levels or activity. Lastly, we observed a decreased expression of several genes related to autophagy induction and biogenesis in stable DNAJC13 knockdown cells. Our data point toward a loss-of-function mechanism of the DNAJC13(N855S) variant and that chronically reduced DNAJC13 protein levels result in a reduced expression of genes largely involved in endosomal traffic and autophagosome biogenesis. The DNAJC13(N855S) mutant might thus cause disease in part by its instability and in part by a dominant negative effect on the autophagic pathway. These data support a pivotal role of endosomal pathway impairment in Parkinson's disease pathogenesis.© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular Physiology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Lop sheep species exhibit remarkable adaptability to desert pastures and extreme arid climates, demonstrating tolerance to rough feeding and high resistance to stress. However, little is known about the population genetic diversity of Lop sheep and the genetic mechanisms underlying their adaptability to extreme environments.Blood samples were collected from a total of 110 individuals comprising 80 Ruoqiang Lop sheep and 30 Yuli Lop sheep. A total of 110 Lop sheep were subjected to whole genome resequencing to analyze genetic diversity, population structure, and signatures of selection in both regions.The genetic diversity of the Lop sheep population is substantial, and the degree of inbreeding is low. In comparison to the Lop sheep in Yuli County, the genetic diversity and linkage disequilibrium analysis results for the Lop sheep population in Ruoqiang County are slightly lower. Population structure analysis indicates that Ruoqiang and Yuli Lop sheep have differentiated into two independent groups. Using Yuli Lop sheep as the reference group, an analysis of the extreme environmental adaptability selection signal of Lop sheep was conducted. The FST and π ratio under the 1% threshold identified 1686 and 863 candidate genes, respectively, with their intersection yielding a total of 122 candidate genes. Functional annotation revealed that these genes are associated with various traits, including immune response (SLC12A2, FOXP1, PANX1, DYNLRB2, RAP1B, and SEMA4D), heat and cold resistance (DNAJC13, PLCB1, HIKESHI, and PITPNC1), desert adaptation (F13A1, PANX1, ST6GAL1, STXBP3, ACTN4, and ATP6V1A), and reproductive performance (RAP1B, RAB6A, PLCB1, and METTL15).These research findings provide a theoretical foundation for understanding the survival and reproductive characteristics of Lop sheep in extreme environments, and they hold practical value for the conservation and utilization of Lop sheep genetic resources, as well as for genetic improvement efforts.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42552051
Macrophage-associated responses at sites of nerve injury are involved in the initiation and persistence of neuropathic pain (NP). Immune semaphorins (SEMAs), including SEMA3A, SEMA3E, SEMA4A, SEMA4D, and SEMA7A, regulate macrophage migration and activation, but their roles in NP remain unclear. This study aimed to identify immune SEMAs associated with NP by analyzing their serum levels and expression in sensory nerve tissues of patients with NP, and to evaluate the potential effects of SEMA-targeted intervention in a mouse model.Serum SEMA levels were measured in 45 patients with NP and 17 age- and sex-matched healthy controls (HCs) using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Using immunohistochemistry, SEMA expression was examined in the peripheral nerves (PNs) and dorsal root ganglia (DRG) from seven autopsied/biopsied patients (four with and three without NP), and in male ICR mice with partial sciatic nerve ligation (PSNL). Additionally, we intraperitoneally injected SEMA-blocking immunoglobulin G (IgG) or control IgG into PSNL-operated mice for 5 consecutive days, either immediately after PSNL (preventive protocol) or from day 14 (therapeutic protocol). Mechanical hypersensitivity was assessed using von Frey filaments. In vitro, mouse DRG neurons treated with or without SEMA3E were analyzed for neurite outgrowth and gene expression.Serum SEMA3E levels tended to be higher in patients with NP than in HCs, although this difference did not remain significant after correction for multiple comparisons. SEMA3E immunoreactivity appeared to be increased in macrophages in both PNs and the DRG, and was also observed in satellite glial cells in the DRG of patients with NP. Similarly, SEMA3E upregulation was observed in macrophages in the injured PNs of PSNL-operated mice. Administration of SEMA3E-blocking IgG was associated with reduced macrophage-associated signals in PNs and attenuated hypersensitivity in PSNL-operated mice under both treatment protocols. In vitro, SEMA3E was associated with reduced neurite outgrowth in mouse DRG neurons.SEMA3E expression appears to be increased at sites of nerve injury in both patients with NP and a mouse model of NP. Experimental findings from the mouse model suggest that SEMA3E may be associated with pain-related hypersensitivity. SEMA3E blockade might represent a potential therapeutic approach for NP.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS) remains incompletely elucidated. Semaphorins play an active role in the immune and nervous systems by regulating receptor-mediated adhesion mechanisms. Immunosemaphorins have recently emerged as diagnostic biomarkers or therapeutic targets in MS.This study aimed to investigate alterations in semaphorins (Sema) 3A, 3F, 4A, 4D, and 7A in newly diagnosed, treatment-naive patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS).In this prospective case-control study, semaphorin levels were evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in 40 consecutive patients (serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)) and 40 healthy controls (serum).Serum levels of Sema3A, Sema4A, Sema4D, and Sema7A were lower in RRMS patients than in healthy controls and remained significant after correction for multiple testing. In exploratory analyses, OCB count was negatively correlated with serum Sema4A and Sema7A and positively correlated with CSF Sema7A. Patients with an OCB count ≥12 had lower serum levels of Sema3F, Sema4A, and Sema7A. Sema4D levels were higher in patients with an IgG index ≥0.7. Patients with infratentorial lesions had lower serum Sema4A levels and higher CSF Sema4A levels.Low serum levels of Sema3A may be diagnostically relevant in RRMS. Low serum levels of Sema7A and elevated CSF levels may be associated with inflammatory immune activation. Further studies are needed for Sema3F, Sema4A, and Sema4D.Copyright © 2026 Sarıdaş, Aydın, Özpar, Koç, Hakyemez, Alkan and Turan.
Ovarian cancer (OC) is the third most aggressive gynecological malignancy worldwide, and platinum resistance is a common malignant feature of OC associated with poor clinical prognosis. Circular RNA (circRNA) has been reported in many tumor progressions, including drug resistance. In this study, a new circRNA that mediates OC progression by acting as a ceRNA was identified.Through high-throughput transcriptome sequencing and bioinformatic analyses, the CircSERPINE2/miR-513a-5p/miR-526b-3p/SEMA7A axis was identified as a potential key factor in the development of platinum resistance in OC. CCK-8, colony formation assay, and flow cytometry confirmed the role of CircSERPINE2 in regulating platinum resistance in OC. Relevant patents were cited by the China National Intellectual Property Administration (CNIPA).In OC cells and subcutaneous xenograft tumors, downregulation of CircSERPINE2 was associated with elevated expression of miR-513a-5p/miR-526b-3p, inactivation of the SEMA7A/ IL-6 pathway, and reduced tumor size following platinum treatment. Furthermore, the CircSERPINE2/SEMA7A axis mediated IL-6 autocrine in OC cells and significantly decreased platinum-induced apoptosis. Moreover, the CircSERPINE2/SEMA7A axis promoted M2 polarization of macrophages in the tumor microenvironment, which in turn impaired platinum sensitivity in ovarian cancer cells.Given that circRNAs can act as promising clinical diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets, the development of circRNA vaccine nanocomposites represents a novel and promising therapeutic strategy to potentiate tumor-killing efficacy when combined with chemotherapy regimens. On this basis, our subsequent research will focus on the rational design and development of a tailored nano-drug delivery system for this application.CircSERPINE2 promotes platinum resistance in OC cells and induces an immunosuppressive environment through the miR-513a-5p/miR-526b-3p/SEMA7A axis, highlighting its potential as a target for overcoming platinum resistance in OC.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
The roles of mitochondrial genes in the development of thyroid cancer (TC) and the associated tumor microenvironment remain to be elucidated. Based on 64 dysregulated mitochondrial genes, unsupervised consensus clustering analysis was performed using TC datasets from The Cancer Genome Atlas and integrated gene expression databases. A dysregulated mitochondrial-based prognostic model was constructed using machine learning. Fourteen prognostic genes were identified, and the correlation between semaphorin 7A (SEMA7A) and immune cell infiltration was validated. The functions of SEMA7A were investigated through plate cloning, scratch wound healing, and Transwell invasion assays. This study constructed a prognostic model for predicting overall survival by identifying 14 mitochondrial dysregulated-based prognostic genes (APOD, ATP2C2, FAM111B, GJB4, GZMA, HHIPL2, IFIT3, IL18, MCEMP1, PRRT4, RGS16, SEMA7A, SLC2A3, and TDRD9). Its effectiveness was validated in an independent cohort. The model accurately predicted OS across cancer stages. SEMA7A expression was significantly upregulated in papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) tissues and PTC cell lines. Functional experiments showed that SEMA7A promoted TC progression, including cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Compared with the SEMA7A low-expression group, the high-expression group showed a larger FOXP3+ regulatory T cell (Treg) population. Although a higher ratio of SEMA7A + CD8-positive cells/SEMA7A + FOXP3-positive cells was observed, increased Treg abundance is known to shift the immune context toward a less cytotoxic and more exhausted state. Thus, oncogenic SEMA7A in TC promotes malignant functions in TC cells and may play an important role in shaping the immunosuppressive microenvironment. Consequently, our mitochondrial dysregulation-based prognostic risk model for TC may offer good clinical application value.© the author(s).
Diabetic retinopathy (DR), a serious microvascular complication of diabetes, has a complex pathogenic mechanism that is intricately linked to programmed cell death (PCD) and also to N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification. The objective of this research was to pinpoint crucial genes related to m6A-related PCD in DR using transcriptomic data, offering novel targets and a theoretical basis for the pathogenesis of DR.In this study, transcriptomic data of DR samples and control samples were obtained from a public database. Meanwhile, m6A-and PCD-related genes were retrieved from the literature. Candidate genes were identified via differential expression and correlation analyses. Using constructed protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks, a machine learning algorithms screened for feature genes, which underwent expression validation to determine key genes. A predictive nomogram was subsequently developed and its performance evaluated. Enrichment analysis, along with immune infiltration analysis were carried out. Finally, molecular regulatory networks and molecular docking was performed.Initially, 3,716 differentially expressed genes between DR and control samples (DRDEGs) were identified. By intersecting DRDEGs with PCD-related genes and m⁶A-related differentially expressed genes, followed by Spearman correlation analysis, 58 candidate genes were identified. Subsequently, Forkhead box K1 (FOXK1) and Semaphorin 7 A (SEMA7A) were identified as key genes through PPI, machine learning, and expression analyses. Furthermore, the two key genes constructed a well accurate nomogram for DR diagnosis. GSEA revealed their critical roles in DR pathogenesis. Moreover, immune infiltration analysis highlighted the involvement of immune dysregulation in DR. The constructed TF-mRNA-miRNA regulatory network contained 2 key genes, 14 transcription factors, and 12 miRNAs (e.g. BRCA1-FOXK1-mmu-miR-7234-3p). Molecular docking showed that decitabine and other drugs bound well to FOXK1,warranting further experimental investigation into their therapeutic efficacy.This study identified FOXK1 and SEMA7A as key genes in DR related to m6A-associated programmed cell death, which may provide a new direction for subsequent research on diagnosis and treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
The initiation and resolution of acute inflammatory responses rely on highly orchestrated biochemical and cellular programs, in which a finely tuned repertoire of mediators regulates the dynamics, migration, and effector functions of immune cells in space and time. Persistent, incompletely resolved inflammatory reactions disrupt this delicate homeostatic equilibrium and foster the development of severe acute and chronic diseases. Central mediators that terminate inflammatory responses and actively transition them into resolution are therefore of paramount importance. These include not only specialized pro-resolving lipid mediators but also peptide and protein mediators, cytokines with context-dependent pro-resolving function, stromal and neuronal signals, as well as cell-intrinsic resolution mechanisms such as efferocytosis, metabolic reprogramming, and tissue-repair programs. Innate and adaptive immune cells integrate these signals and, as major sources and effectors of pro-resolving mediators, drive clearance of harmful stimuli and dying cells and foster tissue repair. Within this broader network of pro-resolving pathways, neuronal guidance proteins (NGPs) are increasingly recognized as critical regulators of immune cell positioning and function that act far beyond their classical roles in axon guidance and are now regarded as integral components of the active inflammation-resolution program. This chapter interrogates the fundamental biology of selected NGPs-including Netrin-1, repulsive guidance molecule A (RGM-A), Semaphorin 7A (Sema7A), Neogenin (Neo1), and Plexin C1 (PLXC1)-and delineates their dual roles within inflammatory and resolution programs, with particular emphasis on how these cues sculpt leukocyte trafficking, promote cellular clearance, and drive immune cell reprogramming along the temporal axis from the early phase of acute inflammation to the restoration of tissue homeostasis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
The cerebral cortex is organized along a dominant sensorimotor-to-association (S-A) axis, anchored by modality-specific primary sensorimotor areas at one end and transmodal association areas forming distributed networks that support abstract cognition at the other1-11. The developmental mechanisms shaping this axis remain unclear9-24. Here we present converging multispecies evidence supporting the multinodal induction-exclusion in network development (MIND) model, in which S-A patterning is governed by competing processes of induction and exclusion driven by two opposing transcriptomically defined programs. 'Pericentral' programs are induced around the frontotemporal poles, progress inwards toward the central regions of the undifferentiated neocortex and define higher-order association features. 'Central' programs are induced centrally through first-order sensorimotor thalamocortical inputs, establish primary areas and exclude pericentral programs. These conserved programs compete for space, resulting in compartmentalized expression of axon guidance, cell-cell adhesion, retinoic acid signalling, synaptogenesis, WNT signalling and autism-risk-associated genes. Notably, PLXNC1 and SEMA7A, a receptor-ligand pair representing pericentral and central programs, respectively, exhibit repulsive interactions between primary and higher-order association corticocortical axons. Induction and exclusion together establish an S-A organization in which primary areas emerge as focal islands within a broader ocean of distributed association networks. The MIND model provides a unifying framework for experimental, evolutionary and clinical phenomena, revealing induction and exclusion as antagonistic yet complementary principles shaping the S-A axis and processing hierarchies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hepatoblastoma (HB) is the most common primary liver malignancy in childhood, yet its molecular determinants, functional dependencies, and therapeutic vulnerabilities remain incompletely characterized. Integrative analyses combining transcriptomic profiling with functional genomic datasets provide a strategy to identify essential genes, biomarkers predictive of tumor behavior and treatment response.Differential expression analysis comparing HB tumors with normal liver was processed on training cohort. These genes were integrated with DepMap CRISPR-Cas9 dependency scores to prioritize HB-essential candidates. Elastic Net regression was used to derive a 16-gene predictive signature, which was validated in an external cohort. Single-cell RNA-seq datasets were analyzed to assess expression patterns across hepatic and tumor-associated cell populations. A supervised deep-learning classifier was trained on single-cell profiles to distinguish tumor cells from hepatocytes, and SHAP values were computed to interpret gene contributions. Drug-gene interactions were queried using curated repressive compounds from DGIdb, and approved drugs were screened for relevance in pediatric cancer clinical trials.A total of 789 genes were found overexpressed in HB tumors from the training transcriptome cohort. Chronos DepMap analysis identified 73 HB-essential genes that were not essential in adult liver cancer cell lines (hepatocellular carcinoma and cholangiocarcinoma). Elastic-net tuning based on the expression of 16 HB-essential genes in the split training cohort enabled robust tumor-normal discrimination, with AUC = 0.88, specificity = 0.90, and sensitivity = 0.90 in internal validation. This performance was confirmed in an independent external cohort, achieving AUC = 0.99, specificity = 1.00, and sensitivity = 0.98. Single-cell validation further demonstrated tumor-specific enrichment of the signature. The deep-learning classifier (tumor cells vs. normal hepatocytes) reached high accuracy (AUC = 0.99; F1-score = 0.97), with SHAP analysis highlighting PEG10, GREB1, PLCB4, RHOBTB1, CRIM1, FSD1L, CORO2A, KIT, ANKRD50, HDAC11, ZNF233, SEMA7A, and FABP4 as major contributors. Six of these genes were confirmed to be absent or lowly expressed in the background liver microenvironment. Drug-gene interaction analysis identified HDAC11 as a potential therapeutic target of approved drugs used in pediatric oncology.This integrative framework combining transcriptomics, CRISPR dependency mapping, machine learning, and pharmacogenomic annotation identifies clinically relevant HB-essential genes and predictive molecular signatures for tumor identity. The derived expression-based scores provide tools for patient stratification, while drug-gene mapping highlights actionable vulnerabilities on HDAC11 with pediatric approved drugs that support rational drug repurposing strategies in hepatoblastoma.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42346074 is a review article
Recent genetic findings have broadened the perspectives of cluster headache pathophysiology. Genes identified by genome wide association studies are likely to be involved in the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying the disease. In this study, we performed validation and characterization of eight loci corresponding to nine genes identified in previous genome wide association studies.Genetic loci were validated by means of a case-control study using TaqMan genotyping in 671 individuals, and a meta-analysis using previously genotyped data. Pyrosequencing methylation analysis and reverse transcription quantitative PCR gene expression studies was performed in a subset of individuals with cluster headache and healthy controls.Genetic associations were found with functional variants in two genes; FHL5 and MERTK. The minor allele of the FHL5 variant rs2273621 was associated with an increased risk of cluster headache in the genotyped samples (odds ratio = 1.42, P = 0.03) and in a meta-analysis (odds ratio = 1.29, confidence interval: 1.09-1.52), and the minor allele of the rs2230515 variant in MERTK was associated with lower risk in the meta-analysis (odds ratio = 0.69, confidence interval: 0.52-0.92). Methylation analysis further revealed altered methylation status of MERTK. Moreover, changes in relative gene expression were found for several candidate genes: a decrease in the mRNA expression of DUSP10 (P < 0.001), CAPN2 (P < 0.001), UFL1 (P < 0.001) and LRP1 (P = 0.007) in blood, and a decrease of CAPN2 (P < 0.001) as well as an increase in the mRNA expression of FTCDNL1/FONG (P = 0.004) in fibroblasts in CH vs. controls. Only two genes; PLCE1 and WNT2, could not be validated in the biological tissue studied; WNT2, possibly due to limited power, while PLCE1 was not expressed in the available tissue.These results confirm the validity of seven candidate genes for cluster headache identified through GWAS. Furthermore, five of the candidate genes are abundantly expressed in both immune and blood cells, converge functionally on inflammatory signalling pathways and suggest a potential role for inflammasomes in cluster headache.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42546854 is a review article
Metabolic reprogramming toward enhanced aerobic glycolysis is a hallmark of cancer, yet the contribution of ubiquitin-like modifications to this process remains poorly understood. Here, we identify the UFMylation E3 ligase UFL1 as a critical suppressor of glycolytic metabolism and colorectal cancer (CRC) progression. Mechanistically, UFL1 directly interacts with the glycolytic enzyme enolase 1 (ENO1) and catalyzes its UFMylation at lysine residues K285 and K420. This modification disrupts ENO1 dimerization, attenuates its enzymatic activity, and consequently suppresses glycolytic flux. Functionally, UFL1-mediated UFMylation inhibits tumor growth both in vitro and in vivo. Notably, pharmacological enhancement of the UFL1-ENO1 interaction using the FDA-approved antibiotic torezolid significantly potentiates the antitumor efficacy of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) across multiple preclinical models, including CRC patient-derived organoids and xenografts, without detectable toxicity. Collectively, these findings identify ENO1 as a direct substrate of UFMylation, establish UFMylation as a previously unrecognized regulator of cancer metabolic reprogramming, and highlight the UFL1-ENO1 axis as a promising therapeutic target for colorectal cancer.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
UFMylation is an evolutionarily conserved ubiquitin-like modification that covalently conjugates UFM1 to lysine residues of substrates via a sequential E1-E2-E3 enzymatic cascade. UFMylation plays a pivotal role in maintaining cellular homeostasis, and its dysregulation is closely linked to multiple major diseases, including malignant tumors, hematopoietic defects, neurodegenerative disorders, and congenital developmental defects, highlighting its important biological significance. However, few substrates of UFMylation have been reported to date, limiting our deep understanding of the mechanistic functions of this modification. This major bottleneck stems from two major technical limitations: the overwhelming abundance of ribosomal protein L26 (RPL26)-UFM1 conjugates masks signals from low-abundance substrates, and conventional methods rely on cumbersome cotransfection of multiple pathway components with poor efficiency and specificity in UFMylated peptides enrichment. To address these challenges, we have developed an effective and specific experimental protocol for UFMylation detection and large-scale substrate identification. This protocol employs CRISPR-Cas9-mediated gene editing to generate UFSP1/UFSP2 double-knockout (UFSP1KO/UFSP2KO , DKO) HEK293T cells, which completely abrogate de-UFMylation and thus significantly elevate global protein UFMylation levels upon exogenous introduction of mature UFM1-ΔC2. In addition, exogenous co-expression of the E3 ligase core components UFL1 and DDRGK1 can further improve the sensitivity of substrate detection. This protocol enables large-scale identification of UFMylation substrates with modification sites via high-efficiency enrichment with the K-ε-VG antibody and LC-MS/MS analysis. Key features • Employs UFSP1/UFSP2 DKO HEK293T cells with exogenous mature UFM1-ΔC2 to enhance UFMylation. • Simplified transfection via single-factor assays using UFM1-ΔC2, UFL1, and DDRGK1. • Combines K-ε-VG antibody enrichment with LC-MS/MS for large-scale substrate identification. • Verifies UFMylation sites via site-directed mutagenesis and UFSP2-mediated de-UFMylation.©Copyright : © 2026 The Authors; This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC license.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510948 is a review article
Neovascularization of the posterior eye is a progressive disease state, marked by an inflammatory initiation, angiogenic growth, and subsequent fibrotic degeneration of endothelial cells (ECs). Although implicated in age-related macular degeneration and proliferative diabetic retinopathy as a leading cause of irreversible vision loss worldwide, the mechanisms underpinning retinal EC dysregulation in neovascularization and fibrosis are not well understood. This study presents a transcriptomic investigation of cultured primary human microvascular retinal EC dysregulation following exposure to 10 ng/mL of six retinal neovascularization-associated signaling molecules [IL-6, tumor necrosis factor-α, transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1, TGF-β2, thrombin, and vascular endothelial growth factor-A] both individually and as a combined treatment for 24 hours. Tumor necrosis factor-α, thrombin, and TGF-β2 alone induced significant enhancement of inflammatory and angiofibrotic pathways, including phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt, NF-κB, and SMAD. BGN, CD34, COL1A2, CXCL8, IGFBP5, INHBA, SERPINE1, SNAI1, TGFB2, and TNFSF11 were identified as having overlapping, nodal roles in the pathologic dysfunction of retinal ECs. Cotreatment with all six ligands significantly enhanced differential gene expression, revealing 889 unique differentially expressed genes. Using a novel network-based gene correlation engine, GeneBunny, the cocktail group was found to mimic published retinal and choroidal EC transcriptomes from tissue of patients with age-related macular degeneration more accurately than individual treatment groups. These findings provide a biologically relevant characterization of the pathologic mechanisms driven by key retinal neovascularization-associated signaling molecules in retinal, enabling the identification of novel anti-fibrotic therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a clinically aggressive malignancy in which epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) plays a central role in invasion, metastasis, and therapeutic resistance. However, the coordinated transcriptional organization, regulatory mechanisms, and functional relevance of EMT-associated genes in NPC remain insufficiently defined. This study aimed to identify EMT-related hub genes in NPC and integrate multiomics and functional evidence to elucidate their biological and clinical significance. Weighted gene coexpression network analysis was performed on the GSE12452 dataset to identify EMT-associated modules and hub genes. Multiomics validation, including transcriptomic, protein level, methylation, mutation, CNV, survival, and drug response profiling, was conducted using GSCA, HPA, OncoDB, cBioPortal, and GDC databases. miRNA regulators were predicted using TargetScan and validated by dual-luciferase assays. Functional significance was assessed through RT-qPCR, Western blotting, apoptosis, viability, colony formation, and wound healing assays following treatment of NPC cells with afatinib or SB431542. WGCNA identified four EMT hub genes, VIM, SNAI1, ZEB1, and FN1, which were consistently overexpressed in NPC. These genes were hypomethylated, exhibited CNV alterations, and were associated with poor survival and broad drug resistance profiles. Predicted miRNA interactions were experimentally validated. Pharmacologic inhibition of EMT-associated signaling significantly reduced hub gene expression and suppressed malignant phenotypes across multiple NPC cell lines. This integrative analysis identifies VIM, SNAI1, ZEB1, and FN1 as a candidate EMT-associated hub signature linked with NPC progression, prognosis, and drug response patterns. Pharmacological inhibition of EMT-associated signaling reduced hub gene expression and suppressed malignant cellular phenotypes, suggesting that this EMT hub network may have potential value as a prognostic biomarker panel and as a putative therapeutic vulnerability requiring further validation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
UFMylation is a reversible ubiquitin-like modification with an emerging and essential role in mammals, yet its functional mechanisms in plants remain largely unknown. Here, we systematically characterized the complete UFMylation pathway in Arabidopsis thaliana and demonstrated that its core components-E1 UBA5, E2 UFC1, and E3 UFL1-possessed potent enzymatic activity. UFL1 is an E3 ligase that localizes to both the nucleus and cytoplasm. Expression pattern analyses revealed that UFL1 gene was strongly upregulated during embryogenesis and progressively accumulated throughout seed maturation. Phenotypic analyses showed that UFL1 overexpression enhanced seed dormancy, increased plant sensitivity to abscisic acid (ABA), and significantly delayed seed germination and cotyledon greening, identifying UFL1 as a previously unrecognized positive regulator of ABA signaling. Biochemical analyses further demonstrated that UFL1 physically interacted with the bZIP transcription factor ABI5 and mediated its UFMylation, thereby antagonizing ubiquitination and stabilizing ABI5 protein abundance. Genetic evidence further supported that ABI5 acted downstream of UFL1 to regulate seed developmental processes. Collectively, our findings reveal UFMylation as a novel and pivotal regulatory layer in plants and uncover a UFL1-ABI5 signaling module that coordinates seed maturation, dormancy, and germination.Copyright © 2026 CAS Center for Excellence in Molecular Plant Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, and Chinese Society for Plant Biology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ribosomal L1 domain-containing protein 1 (RSL1D1) is an RNA-binding protein that relates to senescence. Nevertheless, the mechanism of RSL1D1 in modulating senescence and ferroptosis in diabetic retinopathy (DR) remains undefined. The DR mice were developed by intraperitoneal injection of STZ, and AAV targeting retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) was used for gene intervention. ARPE-19 cells were infected using oe-RSL1D1 and sh-FTH1 lentivirus before 30 mM high glucose (HG) exposure. Cell damage was assessed by measuring the expression of senescence and ferroptosis markers in ARPE-19 cells, along with oxidative stress indicators and Fe2+ levels. RSL1D1 and FTH1 expression were significantly reduced in the RPE layer of diabetic mice and HG-induced ARPE-19 cells. Downregulation of RSL1D1 led to RPE cell senescence and dysregulated iron homeostasis-induced ferroptosis. HG treatment reduced the interaction between RSL1D1 protein and FTH1 mRNA in ARPE-19 cells, while RSL1D1 overexpression enhanced this interaction, thereby stabilizing FTH1 mRNA expression. The alleviating effects of RSL1D1 overexpression on retinal pigment epithelium cell senescence and ferroptosis in vitro and in vivo were compromised by FTH1 knockdown. Overall, this study unveils a posttranscriptional regulation of FTH1 by RSL1D1 and uncovers the implication of RSL1D1/FTH1 in cellular senescence and ferroptosis in DR.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UFMylation, a recently identified ubiquitin-like modification, is essential for cellular stress homeostasis, particularly endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress regulation. However, its biological and therapeutic exploration has been hindered by the absence of potent small-molecule inhibitors. Here, we report the first discovery of two compounds targeting the UFMylation E3 ligase complex core protein DDRGK1: Osimertinib, originally designed as an EGFR T790M selective inhibitor, acting through a previously unrecognized covalent mechanism, and CP-24, a novel non-covalent inhibitor. Both compounds disrupt the DDRGK1-UFL1 interaction, globally suppress UFMylation, inhibit ER-phagy, and induce ER stress. In glioblastoma (GBM), pharmacological UFMylation inhibition markedly reduces tumor cell viability and sensitizes cells to Temozolomide and radiotherapy. Both compounds also exert strong immunomodulatory activity, promoting macrophage polarization toward an anti-tumor M1 state. In vivo, Osimertinib, benefiting from superior pharmacokinetics, significantly suppresses tumor growth in immunodeficient models and achieves tumor-free outcomes in 65% of immunocompetent mice. These tumor-free mice develop durable anti-GBM immune memory, rapidly clearing tumors upon rechallenge, an outcome unattainable by previous GBM treatments. Mechanistically, Osimertinib enhances anti-tumor immunity by promoting macrophage M1 polarization, T cell expansion, and reducing PD-1 protein levels. Collectively, our study introduces Osimertinib and CP-24 as valuable chemical probes for dissecting UFMylation biology and highlights Osimertinib's potential for off-label use in EGFR-wildtype GBM. More broadly, we establish UFMylation inhibition as a dual-targeting therapeutic strategy that disrupts tumor survival pathways and reprograms the immune microenvironment, offering a promising avenue for durable GBM control.© 2026. The Author(s).
To describe the application of a cell saver device (CSD) to manage blood loss in dogs and cats.Retrospective study.A total of 102 client-owned dogs and one cat.Medical records were reviewed for all animals in which autotransfusion using blood generated by the CSD was used. Data retrieved included signalment, surgical details, blood test results, degree of blood loss, blood collection method, transfusion volume, timing of administration, additional blood products used, variations in packed cell volume (PCV), and incidence of transfusion reactions. Short-term complications and overall outcome were assessed by telephone follow-up.There were 103 autotransfusions performed, during emergency (n = 40) and elective (n = 63) procedures. The mean transfusion volume was 14 mL/kg. For every 1 mL of blood transfused per kilogram of bodyweight, PCV increased by approximately 0.6%. Allogeneic blood products (ABPs) were used in addition to autologous blood in 14% of cases. The transfusion reaction rate associated with autotransfusion was 1%.The use of a CSD appeared safe and versatile for management of blood loss in dogs. The inclusion of only a single feline case highlights the need for further studies evaluating the safety and efficacy of this technique in cats.Autotransfusion using a CSD is applicable in a wide range of emergency and elective surgeries, presenting an alternative to ABPs.© 2026 American College of Veterinary Surgeons.
Vocal fold fibrosis (VFF), characterized by excessive extracellular matrix deposition, leads to permanent voice impairment, with current therapies often failing to restore vocal function. Current treatments are limited by suboptimal efficacy and high recurrence rates. Dysregulated energy metabolism is emerging as a critical driver of fibrosis. AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), a central cellular energy sensor, exerts broad antifibrotic effects in multiple organs, yet the therapeutic potential of novel AMPK activators, such as Aldometanib, in VFF remains to be fully characterized. This study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic potential and mechanisms of Aldometanib, a novel AMPK activator, in vocal fold fibrosis.A controlled animal study was conducted using an SD rat vocal fold injury model. Animals were randomly allocated into four groups: control, injury, and injury treated with low or high doses of Aldometanib. Primary vocal fold fibroblasts were isolated and cultured, then stimulated with TGF-β1 to induce fibroblast activation, followed by treatment with different concentrations of the AMPK activator Aldometanib. Key outcome measures included histopathological analysis of collagen deposition (Alcian blue and EVG staining), protein and gene expression levels of fibrotic markers (α-SMA, COL1A1, FN1), and components of the JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway (p-AMPK, p-JAK2, p-STAT3).In vivo, compared with the injury only group, Aldometanib treatment significantly improved the histological architecture of the vocal fold lamina propria. These changes were accompanied by increased p-AMPK levels and decreased expression of p-JAK2, p-STAT3, α-SMA, COL1A1, and FN1. In vitro, Aldometanib attenuated TGF-β1-induced fibroblast activation, and these effects were effectively reversed by co-treatment with the AMPK inhibitor DOX, confirming AMPK pathway dependency.Pharmacological activation of AMPK with Aldometanib effectively alleviates vocal fold fibrosis by inhibiting the JAK2/STAT3 signaling axis. This study identifies AMPK as a promising novel therapeutic target for vocal fold fibrosis, supporting future development of more potent or specific AMPK activators and localized delivery systems for clinical translation.Copyright © 2026 The Voice Foundation. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Triclosan (TCS) is an antimicrobial compound widely used in pharmaceutical and personal care products (PPCPs). It is classified as a contaminant of emerging concern (CEC) due to its environmental health implications. However, significant knowledge gaps remain regarding the toxic effects of environmentally relevant concentrations of TCS in coastal and marine species, such as bivalves. In this study, the impact of triclosan on the primary heart cell cultures derived from the euryhaline coastal bivalve, Magallana bilineata, was investigated. The heart cells were exposed to various concentrations of TCS, and the IC50 value was determined to be 2.1494 mg L-1. Following this, sub-lethal toxicity tests based on cellular and molecular parameters were conducted using environmentally relevant TCS concentrations. The results demonstrated that TCS induces ROS (reactive oxygen species) production at environmentally relevant levels and also alters gene expression, as evident from the mRNA profiling of superoxide dismutase (Cu/Zn sod), catalase (cat), glutathione peroxidase (gpx), calmodulin (calm), and heat shock protein 70 (hsp70). Furthermore, cardiomyocyte beating patterns varied (contraction impairment, arrhythmic activity, or absence of cardiomyocyte clusters) depending on the TCS concentrations. The results point to ROS-mediated disruptions in excitation-contraction coupling as a likely contributor, and further studies will strengthen mechanistic understanding. Overall, these findings provide critical insights into the cellular and molecular toxicity of environmentally relevant TCS concentrations and support the utility of M. bilineata heart cell cultures for advancing aquatic toxicology research.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The striate cortex (V1) and the adjacent area prostriata (Pro) are key components of visual cortical organization. In the domestic cat, however, the cytoarchitectural and chemoarchitectural features of the medial V1-presubiculum (Prs) transition remain incompletely defined, and the anatomical relationship between the feline splenial visual area/splenial visual cortex (SVA/SV) and Pro remains unresolved. This study aimed to characterize the laminar organization and molecular marker distribution of V1 and a candidate region provisionally designated as putative Pro in the domestic cat.Two adult female domestic cats were examined. Coronal sections of the right hemisphere were processed for Nissl staining and immunohistochemistry for Calbindin-D28k (CB), Purkinje cell protein 4 (PCP4), and non-phosphorylated neurofilament H (SMI-32). Low-magnification serial sections were used to assess regional topography, and high-magnification micrographs were used to examine laminar and cellular labeling patterns across the V1-putative Pro-Prs transition.V1 showed a typical six-layered neocortical architecture with a prominent layer 4 and abundant SMI-32-immunoreactive pyramidal neurons in layers 3 and 5. PCP4 labeling was evident in pyramidal layers of V1. By contrast, putative Pro showed a dysgranular profile with an indistinct layer 4, PCP4-positive neurons mainly in deeper layers, and weak or sparse SMI-32 immunoreactivity. No convincing CB-immunoreactive neuronal profiles were identified in the sampled V1 field, whereas weak superficial CB labeling and occasional dark profiles were observed in putative Pro. Because cellular contrast was limited, CB staining was treated as a descriptive observation rather than a decisive criterion for regional parcellation. The transition between putative Pro and Prs was further supported by differences in PCP4 and SMI-32 labeling patterns.The present findings characterize a restricted dysgranular transition zone between medial V1 and Prs that is provisionally designated as putative area prostriata. The results provide anatomical and immunohistochemical information relevant to the identification of feline Pro, but do not establish whether the region described here is identical to, overlaps with, or is distinct from the physiologically defined SVA/SV. Larger studies combining histology, connectivity analysis, and electrophysiological mapping will be required to resolve this relationship.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Burn injuries constitute a significant global health challenge, with deep partial-thickness burns (deep second-degree) posing particular clinical concerns due to prolonged healing and high scarring risks stemming from reticular dermis damage. Current therapeutic strategies remain largely empirical, reflecting limited understanding of stage-specific regulatory mechanisms. This study systematically investigated the molecular basis of deep partial-thickness burn repair by establishing murine models and performing RNA-seq analysis across healing phases (0, 3, 7, 14 days post-burn, dpb). Integrated bioinformatics revealed pivotal ceRNA and PPI networks, identifying hif1a (hypoxia-responsive immunomodulator) and col1a1 (ECM remodeling hub) as nodal regulators. Mechanistically, mmu-miR-101a-3p and mmu-miR-181a-5p were validated as post-transcriptional repressors of col1a1 and hif1a, respectively. Our work pioneers the discovery of the mmu-miR-181a-5p/hif1a and mmu-miR-101a-3p/col1a1 axes as master regulators of burn repair, offering novel therapeutic targets. The multi-omics dataset and molecular networks established herein provide a foundational resource for wound healing research.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Infection with Pseudorabies virus (PRV) triggers a state of oxidative distress in host cells, which consequently results in cellular damage. Although the normal butanol fraction of flavonoids derived from Polygonum hydropiper L. (FNB) is recognized for its strong antioxidant properties, it remains unclear whether FNB can mitigate PRV-induced oxidative damage and whether this protective effect involves long non-coding RNA (lncRNA)-mediated regulation during PRV infection. This study aimed to investigate the protective effect of FNB against oxidative stress in PRV-infected porcine alveolar macrophage cell line (3D4/2) and to elucidate the associated lncRNA regulatory network. The safe concentration of FNB was determined using the CCK-8 assay, and oxidative stress-related parameters were measured using commercial kits. The expression levels of key factors in oxidative stress signaling pathways were analyzed by qRT-PCR and Western blotting. Furthermore, transcriptome sequencing was performed to identify differentially expressed mRNAs and lncRNAs, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses to construct a lncRNA-mRNA interaction network. The results showed that treatment with 50 μg/mL FNB for 12 h significantly restored the PRV-suppressed activity of catalase (CAT) (p<0.05), whereas treatment with 12.5 μg/mL FNB for 12 h markedly increased the activities of glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) in PRV-infected cells (p<0.01). At the molecular level, treatment with 50 μg/mL FNB for 12 h significantly increased the mRNA and protein expression levels of HO-1 and NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1) (p<0.01). Transcriptomic analysis identified 6,948 differentially expressed messenger RNAs (mRNAs) after PRV infection and 4,400 differentially expressed mRNAs after FNB intervention compared with the PRV group, with these genes being mainly enriched in oxidative stress-related processes. By screening for key antioxidant-related mRNAs and their potentially interacting lncRNAs, a lncRNA-mRNA network was constructed. In conclusion, FNB may alleviate PRV infection-induced oxidative damage by activating the Nrf2/HO-1 signaling pathway and modulating specific lncRNA-mRNA networks. This study provides novel insights into the antioxidant effect of FNB against PRV infection-induced oxidative damage and the regulatory role of lncRNAs.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42567197
Direct synthesis of dimethyl carbonate (DMC) from CO2 and methanol is thermodynamically limited, resulting in generally low DMC yields. Constructing catalysts to overcome this thermodynamic limitation is an effective strategy to enhance DMC yield. In this study, the electronic structure of oxygen vacancies and the dopant metal-oxygen vacancy-cerium local defect center (Me-Vo-Ce) active sites in cerium oxide nanorods (CeO2-R) were modulated through in-situ doping with Me (Me = Y, Sm, La), achieving a DMC space-time yield (STY) of 29.3 mmol g cat-1 h-1, which is 1.3 times higher than that of pristine CeO2-R. Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) and density functional theory (DFT) calculations confirmed that the La-Vo-Ce site effectively suppresses the decomposition of the key intermediate methoxycarbonyl (MC) during the reaction, which is the primary reason for the highest turnover number (TON) of active sites observed over the La-CeO2-R catalyst. This study provides a strategy for designing CeO2-based catalysts by inhibiting the decomposition of DMC and its key functional groups, thereby driving the reaction toward DMC formation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566869 is a review article
Docetaxel (DTX) resistance remains a major barrier in metastatic prostate cancer, often driven by ABCB1 efflux and activation of survival pathways. We investigated the therapeutic impact of itraconazole (ITZ), a multifunctional antifungal agent with activity against Hedgehog/GLI signalling and ABCB1 efflux, in DTX-resistant prostate cancer xenograft models (PC3R and DU145R). Tumour growth was analysed longitudinally, metastatic burden assessed by hCD44-positive micrometastasis enumeration, and pharmacodynamic responses evaluated through Ki-67 indexes, necrotic fractions, and Gli1 expression. Neither DTX alone, ITZ alone, nor their combination reduced primary tumour growth or cumulative tumour burden. However, the combination suppressed development of lung micrometastases in both models. ITZ and DTX+ITZ reduced Ki-67 and Gli1 levels, demonstrating inhibition of proliferation and Hedgehog signalling despite the absence of tumour shrinkage. ITZ monotherapy was well tolerated, whereas DTX-containing regimens produced expected systemic toxicity. These results indicate antimetastatic and pathway-modulating activity of ITZ in resistant prostate cancer and support its further evaluation as a rational adjunct to taxanes in treatment contexts where metastatic control is a key therapeutic objective.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Translation of key viral replicative proteins in coronaviruses requires a programmed -1 ribosomal frameshifting (-1 PRF) event controlled by the viral frameshift-stimulatory element (FSE). Although previous studies have analyzed host factor dependencies of coronaviruses, how host cellular factors alter -1 PRF efficiency and affect viral replication remains poorly understood. Here, using RNA pull-down combined with LC-MS/MS analysis, we identified heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein C (hnRNPC) as a major interacting protein of FSE RNA. Coronavirus infection triggers hnRNPC mRNA decay, alters hnRNPC protein levels, and induces its cytoplasmic relocalization, where it appears to bind directly to FSE RNA through residues Asn7 and Asn83. This binding is associated with increased -1 PRF efficiency and may facilitate coronavirus replication. Deletion mapping analysis shows that hnRNPC preferentially binds U-rich regions of the FSE RNA. Finally, we demonstrated that the small molecule Elbasvir directly binds hnRNPC, disrupting the interaction between hnRNPC and FSE RNA and inhibiting coronavirus replication by decreasing -1 PRF efficiency. Collectively, our study identifies hnRNPC as a key host cofactor for coronaviruses and provides a novel target for broad-spectrum antiviral drug development.Copyright: © 2026 Xu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42565887
Acromegaly is a rare disease caused by growth hormone (GH) hypersecretion from a pituitary adenoma. Pegvisomant is the only approved GH receptor antagonist (GHRA) and is administered via daily subcutaneous injections, which limits real-world effectiveness. Here, we report the discovery and characterization of MAR002, a novel, half-life extended monoclonal antibody GHRA. MAR002 was identified by immunizing transgenic mice with the extracellular domain (ECD) of human and cynomolgus monkey GH receptor (GHR) and engineered with Fc modifications to limit effector function and extend serum half-life. MAR002 was benchmarked against pegvisomant in biophysical assays, cellular signaling inhibition studies, and a head-to-head pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) study in cynomolgus monkeys. MAR002 exhibited higher binding affinity to GHR and >100-fold more potent inhibition of GH-induced GHR signaling than pegvisomant (human half-maximal inhibitory concentration [IC50] 1.05 nM vs 122 nM). Epitope binning demonstrated simultaneous binding of MAR002 and GH to GHR, consistent with an allosteric, non-competitive mechanism; notably, MAR002 inhibitory activity was maintained at supraphysiological GH concentrations, whereas pegvisomant activity was competitively reduced. In cynomolgus monkeys, a single 10 mg/kg intravenous (IV) dose of MAR002 sustained ≥50% IGF-1 suppression for 36 days compared with 15 days for an equimolar pegvisomant dose, with comparable maximal lowering (∼80%). These findings support clinical evaluation of MAR002 as a next-generation long-acting GHRA for acromegaly, with potential for reduced dosing frequency and more consistent suppression of the GH-IGF-1 axis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42562963 is a review article
Next-generation HER2-targeted therapies including tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) and antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) improve survival of HER2-positive cancer patients. However, mechanisms of primary and acquired resistance remain unclear. Here, we reported that primary HER2-specific targeted therapy (tucatinib) resistant or sensitive breast cancers derived from clinical trial patients exhibited differential protein profiles. Prolonged tucatinib exposure induced autophagy pathway enrichment in HER2-positive breast cancer cells. Integrated high-throughput analyses identified A-kinase anchoring protein (AKAP)13 as a critical molecule involved in both primary and acquired resistance and an independent predictor of poor prognosis. Silencing of AKAP13 significantly diminished novel HER2-targeted therapies resistance. Mechanistically, AKAP13 inhibits autophagosome formation by suppressing the expression of ULK1, a kinase essential for autophagy initiation. ULK1 transcription is driven by GLI1, which binds to the ULK1 promoter via its arginine-592 residue. We further elucidated that the RhoGEF domain of AKAP13 activates RhoA, which subsequently triggers the activation of PKA anchored to AKAP13. The activated PKA then inhibits the nuclear translocation of GLI1, thereby repressing its transcriptional activity on ULK1. In vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated the synergistic efficacy of tucatinib and AKAP13 inhibitor A13. In the validation phase, organoids were constructed using tissue obtained via puncture from patients resistant to trastuzumab deruxtecan, confirming upregulation of AKAP13 and A13-mediated reversal of resistance to novel HER2-targeted therapies. Collectively, these findings highlight the role of AKAP13 in drug resistance and propose A13 as a promising therapeutic strategy for HER2-positive breast cancer. Model diagram of this study and proposed molecular mechanisms.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Pancreatic acinar cell carcinoma (ACC) is a rare and aggressive malignancy whose molecular basis remains poorly understood. N6-methyladenosine (m⁶A) RNA modification, mediated particularly through methyltransferase 3 (METTL3), has emerged as a critical regulator in various cancers. Here, we investigated the role of METTL3-mediated RNA methylation in ACC development and progression. We used transgenic mouse models overexpressing Mettl3 and SV40 large T antigen under the pancreatic elastase I promoter. Comprehensive analyses included m⁶A-methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing (MeRIP-seq), single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), functional studies using the METTL3 inhibitor STM2457, and S-adenosylmethionine (SAM)-binding domain deletion mutants to assess functional requirements. Mettl3 overexpression significantly accelerated ACC development and increased tumor aggressiveness. The SAM-binding domain was essential for tumor formation, as deletion mutants failed to promote carcinogenesis. MeRIP-seq revealed preferential methylation of cell cycle and DNA replication genes in Mettl3-overexpressing tumors. scRNA-seq analysis demonstrated enhanced malignancy signatures, including epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition and transforming growth factor-β signaling. METTL3 also promoted PRSS1-mediated signaling from ACC cells to inflammatory cancer-associated fibroblasts, creating a feed-forward loop involving IGF1 that amplifies tumor growth. Conditional Mettl3 deletion induced rapid tumor apoptosis. Pharmacological inhibition with STM2457 similarly triggered caspase-3/7-dependent apoptosis in pancreatic tumors. METTL3-mediated RNA methylation drives ACC pathogenesis through tumor-intrinsic cell cycle regulation and tumor-extrinsic stromal interactions. These findings establish METTL3 as a promising therapeutic target and provide mechanistic insights supporting the clinical development of METTL3 inhibitors for ACC treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
The melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) is a G protein-coupled receptor that regulates energy homeostasis. Pathogenic MC4R variants represent the most common cause of monogenic obesity and are frequently associated with increased linear growth. However, the mechanisms linking MC4R signaling to somatic growth remain incompletely understood. We report a child with severe growth hormone deficiency (GHD) carrying a heterozygous MC4R variant (c.496G>A; p.V166I), in whom recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) therapy triggered an unexpectedly exaggerated clinical and biochemical response, suggesting a potential pharmacogenetic interaction between MC4R signaling and the GH/IGF-1 axis.The male patient was first evaluated at 1 month of age due to micropenis and diagnosed with multiple pituitary hormone deficiencies. At 57 months of age, his height was 97.3 cm (-2.56 SDS) and annual growth velocity was 4.1 cm/year (<-2 SDS); rhGH (somatropin) therapy was initiated. Despite severe biochemically confirmed GHD, rhGH at 0.03 mg/kg/day triggered an exaggerated response: IGF-1 levels increased from -3.35 SDS to +8.00 SDS. Concurrently, his height velocity accelerated to 16 cm/year, and his bone age rapidly advanced by approximately 4 years over a 23-month period, culminating in mandibular prognathism.The coexistence of severe GHD and an MC4R variant is rarely described, and such a pronounced response to rhGH has not previously been reported. These findings suggest that MC4R p.V166I may modulate peripheral GH/IGF-1 signaling and act as a pharmacogenetic modifier of GH responsiveness. Careful rhGH dose titration with close IGF-1 monitoring may be considered in patients carrying the MC4R p.V166I variant.© 2026 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.
The classic paradigm of somatotropic-gonadal axis synergy in pubertal bone acquisition lacks validation in central precocious puberty (CPP), and the driver of the significant bone turnover marker (BTM) heterogeneity in this population is unknown.To investigate the independent and potential synergistic associations of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and peak luteinizing hormone (LH) with BTMs in girls with CPP.This retrospective cohort included 190 treatment-naïve girls with CPP. Participants were stratified into Low, Medium, and High bone turnover groups based on tertiles of a bone age-standardized composite Z-score of bone gla protein (BGP) and β-C-terminal telopeptide (β-CTX). We used multiple linear regression adjusted for chronological age, supplemented by E-value analysis.Marked BTM heterogeneity was confirmed (p for trend < 0.001). IGF-1 and peak LH levels exhibited significant graded increases across groups (p for trend = 0.003 and 0.030). After age-adjustment, IGF-1 independently correlated with both BGP (β = 0.069, p = 0.005) and β-CTX (β = 0.001, p = 0.030), while peak LH associated only with BGP (β = 0.411, p = 0.026). Critically, the IGF-1 × LH peak interaction was non-significant (p = 0.655 and 0.791 for BGP and β-CTX, respectively). In contrast, glucolipid metabolic parameters showed no differences, arguing against their major role and highlighting neuroendocrine specificity.In this cross-sectional study of girls with CPP, heterogeneity in bone turnover was more strongly and consistently associated with the somatotropic axis (IGF-1) than with gonadotropin activity, and no significant synergy was observed. These findings suggest a potential shift toward a somatotropic-dominant mechanism in the context of pathological pubertal acceleration, highlight IGF-1 as a pivotal biomarker for skeletal metabolism assessment, and challenge the classical paradigm of somatotropic-gonadal axis collaboration.​ The proposed mechanism requires validation in longitudinal studies.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Jiang, Li and Li.
Mitochondrial dysfunction and abnormal energy metabolism are important pathological features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study investigates how mitochondrial protease YME1L1 affects mitochondrial function and its upstream regulation in the pathogenesis of AD. The AD model was established by using APP/PS1 transgenic mice, primary neurons treated with Aβ1-42, and HT22 cells. The silencing of YME1L1 was achieved to evaluate its effects on mitochondrial function and OPA1 protein hydrolysis. RIP-qPCR and RNA pull-down test were used to evaluate the interaction between HNRNPC and YME1L1 mRNA. The protein succinylation level was detected by proteomic analysis of succinylation, and co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) was used to verify the succinylation of HNRNPC. Cognitive ability was tested by behavioral tests, including the Morris water maze, Y-maze, object recognition test, and olfactory test. Finally, the therapeutic potential of SIRT5 was studied by an overexpression experiment in an AD model. YME1L1 was significantly upregulated in the AD model, which promoted mitochondrial dysfunction and neuronal damage through OPA1 hydrolysis. HNRNPC enhances the stability of YME1L1 mRNA through an m6A-dependent mechanism, while its own K50 succinylation enhances the stability of HNRNPC by competitively inhibiting TRIM25-mediated ubiquitination, further amplifying the expression of YME1L1. SIRT5 downregulation in AD elevated HNRNPC succinylation levels. SIRT5 overexpression promoted HNRNPC desuccinylation, reduced YME1L1 expression, restored mitochondrial function, and ameliorated Aβ deposition and cognitive deficits in AD mice. The SIRT5-HNRNPC-YME1L1 axis contributes to AD pathogenesis by disrupting OPA1 proteolysis and mitochondrial dynamics. Targeting HNRNPC succinylation represents a promising therapeutic strategy for AD.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by the Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Oxidative stress and the tumor immune microenvironment jointly shape hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) progression and response to immunotherapy, yet integrated biomarkers linking these processes are lacking.Transcriptomic and clinical data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets were used to identify oxidative stress- and immunotherapyrelated differentially expressed genes (OSIRDEGs). Functional enrichment, weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) and LASSO-Cox regression were used to construct a prognostic signature. Consensus clustering, TIDE, CIBERSORT and ssGSEA characterized immune phenotypes. Somatic mutation, copy-number and drug-response data were integrated to assess genomic alterations and drug sensitivity. Expression of model genes was validated by qRT-PCR and western blotting in HCC cell lines.We identified 24 OSIRDEGs enriched in cell-cycle and mitotic pathways. WGCNA intersection yielded 18 module genes, from which a six-gene signature (BUB1B, CDKN2A, CENPE, HMMR, PTTG1, SPP1) was derived. The signature robustly stratified patients into high- and low-risk groups with significantly different progression-free and disease-free survival in both TCGA-LIHC and GSE14520. Based on signature expression, two molecular subtypes were defined, exhibiting distinct survival, immune landscapes and predicted immunotherapy responsiveness. Model genes harbored recurrent alterations and showed significant correlations with anticancer agents. All six genes were upregulated at mRNA and protein levels in metastatic HCC cell lines versus normal hepatocytes.We systematically explored the landscape of OSIRDEGs in HCC, and proposed a validated six-gene signature that refines prognostic stratification, delineates immunerelevant HCC subtypes and highlights candidate biomarkers for therapeutic selection and mechanistic investigation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Glioma is characterized by substantial molecular heterogeneity and poor clinical outcomes. Emerging evidence suggests that mechanotransduction-related pathways may influence tumor progression and immune remodeling. However, the prognostic relevance of mechanosensitive genes in glioma remains unclear.RNA-sequencing data and clinical information from the TCGA, CGGA-301, CGGA-325, and GSE16011 cohorts were analyzed. Mechanosensitive genes were identified from curated gene sets, and a prognostic signature was constructed using LASSO and Cox regression analyses. Immune infiltration, immune checkpoint expression, TIDE predictions, and drug sensitivity were evaluated. The risk score was consistently and positively correlated with SPP1 expression across four independent cohorts, and single‑cell analysis further suggested that SPP1‑related signaling may contribute to immune microenvironment remodeling. Selected genes were validated by qRT-PCR in glioma cell lines.A nine-gene mechanosensitive signature stratified glioma patients into high- and low-risk groups with significantly different overall survival across multiple cohorts. The risk score was independently associated with established clinicopathological factors, including WHO grade, IDH mutation status, 1p/19q co-deletion status, and MGMT promoter methylation status. High-risk tumors exhibited increased macrophage and neutrophil infiltration, elevated immune checkpoint expression, and higher predicted immune evasion potential. Single-cell analysis suggested that SPP1-related signaling may contribute to immune microenvironment remodeling. Experimental validation supported differential expression of selected genes in glioma cells.This mechanosensitive gene signature is associated with immune landscape heterogeneity and survival in glioma. The model may provide complementary stratification information and support further investigation of mechanobiology-related tumor-microenvironment interactions.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) is a heterogeneous inflammatory disease with variable outcomes following functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS). Predictive biomarkers for post-FESS CRSwNP recurrence remain poorly defined.Identify tissue-based predictors of CRSwNP recurrence after FESS and assess dupilumab-induced modifications.From a cohort of patients with CRSwNP (including NSAID-exacerbated respiratory disease [NSAID-ERD]) who underwent FESS, we retrospectively identified 91 who could be dichotomized by clinical outcome as post-FESS "rapid recurrence" (<1 year) or "slow/no recurrence" (>2 years without recurrence). Nasal polyp tissue was analyzed for 69 inflammatory mediators using proteomics and ELISA. Logistic regression with LASSO feature selection identified candidate predictors. In an independent, second prospective cohort of 17 CRSwNP patients initiating dupilumab, nasal fluid was collected at baseline and after two months of dupilumab and profiled for the same mediators.Twenty-three tissue mediators strongly predicted rapid CRSwNP recurrence (AUC >0.70), including markers of type (T) 2 inflammation (IL-4, IL-13, IL-5Rα, ECP, IgE) and innate inflammation and/or myeloid involvement (CCL3/4/7/8/13, CSF2, IL-1β, IL-6, OSM, MMP12, HIF-1α, TNF-α, TNFSF14). Of these, dupilumab significantly reduced IL-5Rα and several chemokines (CCL3, CCL4, CCL13) but had no effect on key myeloid mediators (CCL8, CSF2, IL-1β, MMP12, HIF-1α).Both T2 and non-T2 mediators play a role in rapid post-FESS recurrence in CRSwNP. T2 blockade with dupilumab reduces T2-associated mediators but does not suppress a parallel innate/myeloid inflammatory axis. The persistence of this axis during treatment suggests that innate and myeloid mediators may underlie severe CRSwNP and could influence disease recurrence once T2 signaling is no longer inhibited, representing potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets to improve long-term disease control.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a globally prevalent chronic liver disease, and its progression is closely associated with Kupffer cells (KCs). This study aims to characterize C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9꞉secreted phosphoprotein 1 (CS) polarization in KCs and investigate its intercellular communication with endothelial cells (ECs) in NAFLD.Single-cell RNA sequencing data of liver tissues from 3 NAFLD mice and 3 control mice were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) dataset GSE129516. Seurat was used for data integration, quality control, clustering, and annotation. KCs and ECs were divided into subgroups, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses. A mouse liver single-cell dataset (GSE270583) was further included for cross-validation of CS polarization. CellChat was used to infer intercellular communication networks between KC and EC subgroups. Twenty male C57BL/6J mice were assigned to a control group (n=10) and a high-fat diet (HFD) group (n=10). Body weight was measured weekly. At 20 weeks of feeding, glucose tolerance and insulin tolerance were assessed, after which the mice were sacrificed, and serum and liver tissues were collected for subsequent experiments. Hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining and Oil Red O staining were used to observe pathological changes in the liver. Immunofluorescence staining of liver tissues was performed to validate the characteristics of CS polarization and M1/M2 polarization.A total of 29 cell clusters belonging to 8 cell types were identified. Compared with the control group, the proportion of KCs was increased and the proportion of ECs was decreased in the NAFLD group. Under M1/M2 and CS polarization frameworks, subgroups including CD80+ KCs, CD206+ KCs, S100A4+ KCs, secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1)+ KCs, and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9 (CXCL9)+ KCs were identified. Among these, CD80+ KCs and SPP1+ KCs were significantly expanded, and their characteristic genes were mainly enriched in nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) signaling pathways. Peroxiredoxin 3 (PRDX3) was upregulated in CD80+ KCs and downregulated in CD206+ KCs. ECs were divided into 3 subgroups: Apoa2+ ECs, PRDX3+ ECs, and Col4a1+ ECs. In the NAFLD group, the PRDX3+ EC subgroup was abnormally active, accompanied by high expression of PRDX1 and downregulation of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4). Further external validation using the single-cell dataset GSE270583 showed that SPP1+ KCs and CXCL9+ KCs could be clearly separated, and the proportion of SPP1+ KCs was increased in the NAFLD group, supporting the cross-cohort reproducibility of CS polarization in NAFLD. CellChat analysis suggested activation of the TNF receptor superfamily member 1A (TNFRSF1A) signaling pathway from CD80+ KCs and SPP1+ KCs to PRDX3+ ECs. After 20-week HFD feeding, mice displayed significant weight gain, impaired glucose tolerance, and reduced insulin sensitivity compared with controls (all P<0.05). The levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate transferase (AST), total cholesterol (TC), and triglyceride (TG) were significantly higher in the HFD group than in the control group (all P<0.05). HE staining and Oil Red O staining showed marked disordered hepatic architecture, lipid vacuoles, and lipid deposition in the livers of HFD mice. Immunofluorescence staining showed increased expression of PRDX3 and CD80 in liver tissues of the HFD group. Compared with the control group, SPP1 expression was increased, whereas CXCL9 expression was decreased, in hepatic KCs of the HFD group. These results were consistent with the single-cell transcriptome sequencing findings.KCs in NAFLD exhibit characteristics of CS polarization, with increased proportions of SPP1+ KCs and CD80+ KCs, as well as enhanced TNF-TNFRSF1A communication with PRDX3+ ECs. Changes in the expression of SPP1, CXCL9, CD80, and PRDX3 in the liver tissues of HFD mice were generally consistent with the single-cell analysis results. CS polarization may participate in alterations of the hepatic inflammatory microenvironment in NAFLD and may provide a new research direction for understanding the inflammation-fibrosis progression of NAFLD.
Paraquat (PQ), a highly toxic herbicide that causes fatal pulmonary injury, has no specific clinical antidotes, mainly due to incomplete understanding of its pathogenic mechanisms. Inhalational exposure to PQ is the primary route of toxicity among agricultural workers. However, conventional experimental models fail to accurately replicate the physiological characteristics of the alveolar-capillary barrier and the air-liquid interface (ALI). In this study, we developed an Alveolar Microphysiological System (AMS) that co-cultures alveolar epithelial cells (EPCs) and pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells (EDCs) with ALI, effectively mimicking PQ-induced lung injury. This injury is characterized by increased permeability of the alveolar-capillary barrier, compromised intercellular junction integrity, and ultrastructural alterations. Bulk RNA sequencing, public single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), and functional validation assays revealed that PQ triggers divergent, cell-type-specific responses: activating the RAGE/NF-κB signaling pathway and pro-inflammatory programs in EPCs, while suppressing these pathways in EDCs. Furthermore, PQ treatment results in the aberrant expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (e.g., IL-1α/β, TNF-α), chemokines (e.g., CCL3/5, CXCL8/10), and growth factors (e.g., PDGF, TGF-α) in EPCs, a pattern that significantly differs from the expression profile observed in EDCs. Additionally, FPS-ZM1, a specific inhibitor of RAGE, mitigated PQ-induced barrier dysfunction by restoring normalized AMS permeability, enhancing E-cadherin expression in EPCs, and improving adherens junction integrity in EDCs. Collectively, these findings suggest that the AMS serves as a valuable translational platform for developing therapeutic strategies. Moreover, the RAGE/NF-κB signaling pathway exhibits a cell-type-specific function in pulmonary injury induced by PQ exposure under air-liquid interface conditions, indicating that modulation of the RAGE/NF-κB axis may offer a promising therapeutic avenue for managing paraquat poisoning.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
During progressive kidney injury, pericytes and resident fibroblasts migrate, proliferate and differentiate into myofibroblasts, which are the major source of extracellular matrix deposition. Both interstitial fibroblasts and macrophages contribute to kidney fibrosis and coexist within the fibrotic niche. However, the potential interaction between fibroblasts and macrophages and its role in kidney fibrosis remains incompletely understood. Previous studies have indicated a role for kidney prostaglandins to limit fibroblast activity and myofibroblast transformation.Inducible PDGFRß-Cre mice were crossed to the indicated floxed mice to selectively delete either cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2) or the PGE2 receptors EP2 and EP4. Unilateral ureteral obstruction was utilized as a model of progressive kidney fibrosis.Selective deletion of cyclooxygenase-2 expression in fibroblasts (FibCOX-2-/-) increased kidney fibrosis in association with kidney macrophages with a proinflammatory and profibrotic phenotype. The highest differentially expressed gene in these macrophages was the profibrotic factor SPP1/osteopontin, and deletion of kidney macrophages with clodronate inhibited kidney expression of SPP1 and ameliorated fibrosis in FibCOX2-/- mice.Our findings suggest that fibroblast COX-2 protects against progressive kidney fibrosis, potentially through a regulatory interplay that modulates the surrounding macrophage phenotype during chronic kidney injury.Copyright © 2026 by the American Society of Nephrology.
Fusobacterium nucleatum (Fn) is associated with resistance to neoadjuvant chemo-immunotherapy in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC), but the underlying mechanism is unclear. We identified Fn-induced SPP1⁺ macrophages as key drivers of a cancer-associated fibroblast (CAF)-mediated spatial immune barrier that restricts CD8⁺ T-cell infiltration.Mannose-modified non-cationic thiourea lipid nanoparticles (NC-TNPM) were engineered to deliver Cas9 mRNA and SPP1-targeting sgRNA to macrophages. Their therapeutic efficacy was evaluated in Fn-associated ESCC models combined with chemotherapy and anti-PD-L1 treatment.NC-TNPM achieved efficient SPP1 silencing, markedly reduced SPP1⁺ macrophages, disrupted the macrophage-CAF immune barrier, and restored intratumoral CD8⁺ T-cell infiltration. Combined with chemo-immunotherapy, NC-TNPM significantly suppressed tumor growth, enhanced cytotoxic T-cell activity, promoted macrophage repolarization, and showed no evident toxicity.Fn-induced SPP1⁺ macrophages drive immune exclusion and chemo-immunotherapy resistance in ESCC. Macrophage-targeted SPP1 editing with NC-TNPM overcomes this barrier and enhances therapeutic efficacy, highlighting a promising nanomedicine strategy for ESCC.© The author(s).
Orthopedic implants can guide endogenous tissue regeneration, with outcomes shaped by early interactions between immune cells and tissue specific progenitors. While interest in the osteoimmunomodulatory function of 3D printed bone scaffolds is increasing, most studies focus on the effects of immune cells on bone forming cells, often overlooking the immunomodulatory role of skeletal progenitors. This study examines how 3D printed titanium scaffolds influence macrophage polarization mediated by skeletal progenitors and how the resulting macrophage response affects osteogenic differentiation of these progenitors. An indirect co culture system was used, with primary human macrophages seeded on titanium scaffolds and human periosteum derived cells cultured separately. After five days, conditioned media were exchanged. Titanium scaffolds promoted an inflammatory macrophage profile and limited the modulatory effect of skeletal progenitors under specific readouts. In turn, macrophage conditioned media from scaffold cultures selectively altered osteogenic gene expression in skeletal progenitors, with effects on SPP1 and COL1A1. These findings indicate that 3D printed titanium scaffolds influence macrophage-progenitor crosstalk that may affect regenerative signaling.© 2026 IOP Publishing Ltd. All rights, including for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies, are reserved.
Endometriosis (EM) is an intractable gynecological condition with uncertain etiology. Gut microbiota have been increasingly implicated in EM, yet the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we identify a gut microbe-metabolite-uterus axis that drives EM pathogenesis. In our EM cohort, we found that the gut bacterium Olsenella profusa (O. profusa) and metabolite lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC) (16:0) were significantly enriched in patients with EM and showed positive correlation. In a mouse model of EM, oral gavage with O. profusa accelerated ectopic lesion growth through producing LPC (16:0) via its phospholipase, an effect recapitulated by LPC (16:0) alone. Mechanistically, LPC (16:0) promotes EM by inducing endometrial stromal cell proliferation and migration through the secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1)-PI3K-AKT pathway. Moreover, O. profusa and LPC (16:0) show potential as early diagnostic biomarkers. This study suggests a causal role for the gut O. profusa-LPC (16:0) metabolic axis in EM progression and identifies promising targets for diagnosis and therapy.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Citrullination, a post-translational modification catalyzed by protein arginine deiminases (PADIs), has been implicated in malignant progression across multiple cancer types. However, its cellular distribution, functional significance, and role in microenvironment remodeling in thyroid cancer remain largely unknown.We integrated single-cell transcriptomics (GSE232237, 92,519 cells), spatial transcriptomics (GSE250521), and TCGA-THCA bulk transcriptomic data. Malignant epithelial cells were identified using CopyKAT. A PADI-family-based citrullination score (CitrScore) was calculated per cell. Functional states, regulon networks, co-expression modules, drug sensitivity, cell-cell communication, and in silico CD44 knockout were systematically analyzed. CD44 knockdown and overexpression experiments were performed in TPC-1 and 8505C cells.CitrScore was significantly enriched in malignant epithelial cells (P < 0.001). High-CitrScore malignant cells exhibited a non-canonical "high-invasion/high-apoptosis" program without concordant EMT elevation, accompanied by Ras-MAPK and PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway activation. The C_core-up signature mapped to a pharmacologic vulnerability centered on the CDC37-HSP90-PI3K/MAPK axis. In the myeloid compartment, conventional dendritic cells (mDCs) represented the predominant Citr-high subset, with higher enrichment in PTC than ATC. The SPP1-CD44 axis dominated macrophage-malignant communication and marked a niche associated with Citr-low malignant cells, supported by spatial transcriptomics. In silico CD44 knockout preferentially perturbed the C_core program (P < 0.001). Experimentally, CD44 knockdown suppressed proliferation, migration, invasion, and EMT while promoting apoptosis; CD44 overexpression produced opposite effects.This study delineates a citrullination-associated malignant state in thyroid cancer and highlights the SPP1-CD44 axis as a functionally relevant macrophage-malignant communication hub, nominating CD44 as a pro-tumorigenic molecule and candidate therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Critical-sized bone defect repair remains a formidable challenge because conventional approaches cannot recapitulate the temporally coordinated cascade of endochondral ossification. Here, we report a biomimetic, temporally programmed cytokine delivery scaffold that integrates spatially defined nanofiber architecture with sequential biochemical activation to orchestrate orderly tissue regeneration. The scaffold comprises electrospun polycaprolactone nanofibers with an inner uniaxially aligned layer and an outer random layer. Interleukin-8 (IL-8), strategically loaded into the aligned fibers to reinstate early-stage chemotactic cues markedly diminished in adult bone defect repair, is released in a sustained manner during the initial 14 days, enhancing mesenchymal stem cell recruitment and initiating chondrogenic differentiation. At later stages, bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) encapsulated between the fiber layers is released on demand via near-infrared (NIR) stimulation, enabling temporally precise promotion of osteogenesis. In vivo, the staged delivery system led to a 72.1% greater bone volume fraction at 12 weeks compared to controls. IL-8-driven early cartilage formation and BMP-2-induced late-stage bone regeneration were consistent with upregulated expression of chondrogenic markers S100 (3.63-fold) and COL2 (1.57-fold) at 4 weeks and subsequently, osteogenic markers OCN (1.68-fold) and OPN (1.47-fold) at 12 weeks. By reinstating early molecular signals absent in conventional healing and coupling them with on-demand osteogenic stimulation, this programmable delivery strategy offers a potent and adaptable approach for regenerating critical-sized bone defects and potentially other complex tissues requiring staged repair.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
The current evidence suggests that the formation of pulp stones (PS) has a genetic background. Therefore, the present study aimed to evaluate the association between PS in orthodontically treated patients and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the mineralization-related genes (bone morphogenetic protein 2 [BMP2], BMP4, SMAD6, and runt-related transcription factor 2 [RUNX2]).This cross-sectional study analyzed genomic DNA and panoramic radiographs from patients with a history of orthodontic treatment. Panoramic radiographs were analyzed and PS were identified as well- or poorly defined radiopaque opacities located within the pulp chamber of the maxillary and mandibular first and second permanent molars. Genomic DNA obtained from all participants was analyzed. The genetic analysis focused on seven specific SNPs located in genes involved in mineralization pathways: BMP2 (rs235768 and rs1005464), BMP4 (rs17563), SMAD6 (rs3934908 and rs2119261), and RUNX2 (rs59983488 and rs1200425). Comparisons of allele and genotype (codominant, dominant, and recessive models) distributions between patients with and without PS were performed using the chi-square test. Logistic regression analyses were performed to control for potential confounders such as age and sex for the SNPs located in the RUNX2 gene. One-way ANOVA was applied to evaluate differences in the mean number of teeth with PS across genotypes. The significance level was established at α = 0.05.The final sample comprised 235 patients: 120 presented with PS, and 115 served as controls. For the SNP rs59983488 in RUNX2, a statistical association was observed for genotype distribution in the dominant model (p = 0.033) and for allele distribution (p = 0.022). For the SNP rs1200425 in RUNX2, a statistical association was observed for genotype distribution in the recessive model (p = 0.046; odds ratio [OR] = 2.0, confidence interval [CI] 95% 1.0-3.8). No statistically significant association was observed in the logistic regression analysis.Our study suggests that RUNX2 could have a small effect on the susceptibility of orthodontic patients to develop PS.Copyright © 2026 Daniel Hemming et al. International Journal of Dentistry published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Osteoporosis and osteosarcoma impose a substantial and rising global health burden, yet their transcriptomic landscapes have not been systematically compared. We performed a multiomics characterization integrating bulk transcriptomics, coexpression network analysis, immune deconvolution, single-cell RNA sequencing, and diagnostic classifier construction.Bulk transcriptomic profiling was performed using GSE56815 (circulating blood monocytes, n = 80; 40 low-BMD/40 high-BMD) and the TARGET-OS database (n = 88 osteosarcoma tumor samples; DNA methylation n = 86; copy number n = 81). Differential expression was assessed by Welch's t-test with Benjamini-Hochberg correction. Coexpression modules were identified by hierarchical clustering of the Top 2000 most variable probes with dynamic tree cutting. A logistic regression classifier was constructed from the Top 20 differentially expressed probes using fivefold-stratified cross-validation. Single-cell RNA sequencing of an osteosarcoma tumor specimen (GEO accession GSM9030790) was processed with SVD-based dimensionality reduction and K-means clustering (k = 8; n = 3658 cells passing QC). In vitro validation was conducted by qRT-PCR in MC3T3-E1 osteoblast precursor cells and RAW264.7 osteoclast precursor cells.Differential expression analysis identified 4347 probe sets at nominal p < 0.05, of which 604 remained significant after Benjamini-Hochberg correction. Eight coexpression modules were identified; module M0 showed a weak positive association with low-BMD status (r = 0.184), which did not reach statistical significance. Six hub genes-SP7/Osterix, RUNX2, BMP2, WNT5A, DKK1, and SOST-were examined by qRT-PCR: SP7, RUNX2, BMP2, and WNT5A showed significant downregulation (p < 0.01), whereas DKK1 showed significant upregulation (p < 0.01) and SOST showed a nonsignificant trend toward upregulation under osteoporosis-simulating conditions. The diagnostic classifier achieved a moderate AUC of 0.693 (fivefold CV range: 0.48-0.91), with the lower bound falling below the random classifier baseline (AUC = 0.5), indicating limited discriminative capacity in some data partitions. scRNA-seq resolved eight transcriptionally distinct cell clusters in the osteosarcoma specimen (3658 cells passing QC).This integrative multiomics study provides a comprehensive transcriptomic comparison of osteoporosis and osteosarcoma, identifies BMD-associated coexpression modules with experimentally validated hub genes, and establishes a reusable analytical framework for biomarker discovery in metabolic and malignant bone disease. However, the weak module-trait correlations, subthreshold classifier performance in some cross-validation folds, and the use of circulating blood monocytes to study bone-specific gene expression warrant cautious interpretation of the findings.Copyright © 2026 Dongming Fu et al. International Journal of Genomics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) involves complex inflammatory and microvascular injury, but cell-specific molecular signatures linked to neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) remain unclear. We aimed to identify NET-associated biomarkers of glomerular injury in DKD. Bulk glomerular transcriptomic datasets were analyzed using differential expression, weighted gene co-expression network analysis, and machine learning (LASSO and random forest). Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) defined cell-specific expression and intercellular communication. Candidates were evaluated in independent cohorts, in vitro high-glucose co-culture datasets, and db/db mice. Exploratory in silico drug-screening was also performed. VCAN and ESM1 emerged as core candidate genes. In bulk cohorts, VCAN was upregulated and ESM1 downregulated, yielding strong combined diagnostic performance. scRNA-seq revealed ESM1 decreases predominantly in glomerular endothelial cells, while VCAN increases in mesangial cells. NET-related activity enriched primarily in the endothelium, whereas VCAN-expressing cells associated with matrix remodeling. In vitro, ESM1 showed early endothelial-predominant decreases under injury. In db/db mice, renal VCAN and NET markers were elevated, while ESM1 levels were reduced and correlated with albuminuria severity. Molecular docking identified potential targeting compounds. In conclusion, VCAN and ESM1 are promising biomarkers reflecting distinct, cell-type-enriched patterns of NET-related glomerular injury in DKD, supporting a dual-track model of endothelial dysfunction and paracrine matrix remodeling.
Acral melanoma (AM) exhibits significant intratumoral heterogeneity, but its tumor microenvironment (TME) and immune regulation remain unclear. This study aims to dissect TME heterogeneity and establish a prognostic model based on key cell subpopulations.We collected AM single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and bulk RNA-seq data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Unsupervised clustering, CellChat, and Scissor analysis were performed to characterize cellular heterogeneity, cell-cell communication, and prognosis-related cell subpopulations. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to assess the prognostic value of key genes, which were further validated by multiplex immunohistochemistry (mIHC).In AM, Mel_C2, C7, and C9 with high SEMA6A and KIT expression were strongly linked to poor prognosis. We further identified a senescent fibroblast subpopulation (sCAF_CDKN2A) characterized by high fibroblast senescence signature (FSS) scores. Integrating Scissor analysis of fibroblast subtypes with bulk prognostic data, we identified COL3A1, VCAN, and KIT as prognosis-associated genes upregulated in poor-outcome-related fibroblast subsets. Cell-cell communication analysis revealed that sCAF_CDKN2A engages in an immunosuppressive network, interacting with regulatory T cells (Tregs) via MIF signaling and receiving signals from exhausted CD8+ T cells through PPIA-BSG interactions. Using transcription factor expression patterns from these fibroblast subtypes, we constructed a prognostic model that effectively stratified patients into distinct risk groups with significant differences in overall survival (OS). mIHC confirmed significantly higher protein levels of SEMA6A and COL3A1 in tumor tissues compared to matched normal tissues.We established a novel prognostic model for AM and identified sCAF_CDKN2A as an immunosuppressive senescent fibroblast subpopulation driving poor prognosis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Segmental bone defects (SBD), frequently resulting from high-energy trauma like military combat injuries and major accidents, represent a significant clinical challenge because of the loss of a large bone segment and associated soft-tissue injury. These injuries often occur in military settings, where blast and ballistic trauma cause complex injuries requiring advanced reconstructive strategies. Similar injuries also occur in the civilian population in car accidents, falls, and workplace injuries. Existing therapies (autografts, allografts, and biomaterials) have limitations, including donor site morbidity and graft rejection, highlighting the need for novel bone regenerative approaches. Human placental tissue-derived xenografts (connective tissue matrix [CTM]), rich in structural proteins and growth factors, are under investigation for enhancing bone repair in severe musculoskeletal injuries. This study investigates the efficacy of placental tissue xenografts in a murine SBD model.A murine SBD model with a 2 mm defect in the femoral diaphysis of male C57BL/6J mice was used. Mice with SBD were divided into 5 experimental groups: saline control, bone morphogenic protein (BMP-2), and 3 different formulations of CTM (CTM Paste, CTM Membrane, and CTM Membrane+Paste). Treatments were delivered at the defect site at the time of surgery and mice were euthanized 13 weeks postsurgery. Bone healing and pain behaviors were assessed including radiographic scoring, microcomputed tomography (µCT), biomechanical torsion testing, weightbearing, locomotion, and spontaneous nociceptive behaviors. Statistical analyses included one-way or two-way ANOVA and unpaired Student's t-tests.BMP-2-treated groups showed significantly larger callus formation, however, lower bone volume/total volume (BV/TV) % compared to saline control was observed. In contrast, the CTM Membrane+Paste group exhibited significantly higher BV/TV%. Biomechanical tests revealed enhanced ultimate torque in BMP-2 and CTM Membrane+Paste groups versus saline controls. All treatment groups of SBD mice exhibited sustained pain behaviors after fracture, which did not return to baseline levels even when bone healing was complete.The CTM Membrane+Paste treatment group exhibited improved bone healing parameters in a murine model of SBD. Specifically, BV/TV and some biomechanical properties were improved. Notably, CTM did not increase pain behaviors. Further studies are needed to optimize graft effects and assess therapeutic value for clinical translation. Overall, the results support continued investigation, including potential combination therapies and trials in larger animal models.© The Association of Military Surgeons of the United States 2026.
Preeclampsia (PE) is a gestational hypertension disorder emerging after 20 weeks of pregnancy, complicating 5-8% of pregnancies and representing a leading cause of maternal-fetal morbidity and mortality. Despite its clinical significance, the etiology and pathogenesis of PE remain obscure. Sorting nexin 9 (SNX9), a key regulator of intracellular trafficking and endomembrane dynamics, has been poorly explored in reproductive physiology. This study investigates the role of SNX9 in PE, demonstrating significant downregulation of SNX9 in decidual tissues from preeclamptic patients. In vitro decidualization models showed SNX9 expression correlated with decidualization progression, as evidenced by upregulation of decidual markers (IGFBP1, PRL), while SNX9 knockdown impaired decidualization. Transwell assays revealed that aberrant SNX9 expression restricted trophoblast invasion into endometrial stromal cells. In pregnant mice, SNX9 expression in decidual tissues positively correlated with decidualization regulators (Wnt4, Bmp2) and markers (Prl8a2, Dtprp). Consistent expression patterns were observed in pseudopregnant mice after artificial decidualization induction, excluding embryonic influences. Collectively, these findings establish SNX9 as essential for normal decidualization, with dysregulated SNX9 potentially contributing to PE pathogenesis. This study uncovers a novel link between endomembrane dynamics and PE, providing insights into its molecular mechanisms.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Reproduction and Fertility. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Electrides hosting localized interstitial anionic electrons (IAEs) offer a unique platform for emergent quantum phenomena: the delocalization of these electrons can transform the electronic landscape and potentially induce superconductivity. Here, we use first-principles calculations to predict phonon-mediated superconductivity with a critical temperature (Tc) up to 43 K at ambient pressure in the layered ternary nitride VCaN2 (relative to 7.5 K in the binary VN). This compound is derived from the electride parent WCaN2via substitution of V for W. The substitution triggers two concurrent effects: a rigid band shift of approximately 1.9 eV that precisely places a high density of states (DOS) near the Fermi level (EF), and a complete depletion of the IAEs that characterizes the electride state. Crucially, the DOS peak, originating predominantly from V-3d orbitals yields a strong electron-phonon coupling (EPC) strength (λ = 1.217) primarily mediated by low-frequency V vibrational modes. By solving the anisotropic Migdal-Eliashberg equations, the calculated superconducting gap is found to vanish at 43 K under ambient pressure. Notably, the disappearance of IAEs upon V substitution signals a transition from localized to delocalized electronic states, which accompanies and facilitates the emergence of metallicity. Electronic localization function (ELF) calculations quantitatively confirm this loss of electride character. Our findings establish VCaN2 as a rare ambient-pressure nitride superconductor exceeding the McMillan limit with high-Tc phonon-mediated superconductivity in layered electride-derived materials.
Distraction osteogenesis (DO) is a surgical technique used to repair skeletal defects by promoting bone and soft tissue regeneration. However, prolonged use of external fixators often causes complications such as infections and joint contractures. Neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) enhances osteoblast differentiation via bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) and Akt signaling and may also modulate the Wnt/β-catenin pathway. In this study, we investigated the role of NT-3 in bone regeneration during DO. A DO model was established in 9-week-old male ICR mice, in which tibiae were osteotomized and stabilized with external fixators under anesthesia. After a 5-day latency period, distraction was performed at 0.2 mm every 12 hours for 8 days. RNA was extracted at defined time points post-osteotomy for quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) analysis, and NT-3 was administered post-distraction. Bone regeneration was evaluated by radiographic, histological, and biomechanical analyses. The effects of NT-3 and Dickkopf-1 were further examined in ST2 bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells. NT-3 significantly enhanced bone formation, increased bone mineral density within the DO gap, and improved the mechanical stiffness of regenerated bone. Histological examination revealed earlier bone continuity and greater callus formation in the NT-3 group. Gene expression analysis demonstrated upregulation of Wnt/β-catenin pathway components, including Wnt10b, β-catenin, and low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 5 (LRP5). In ST2 cells, NT3 increased the expression of LRP5, LRP6, β-catenin, and Runx2, while cotreatment with Dickkopf1 abolished these effects. These findings suggest that NT-3 promotes bone regeneration during DO by activating the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway, highlighting its therapeutic potential to improve DO outcomes.
Kidney fibrosis is the pathologic hallmark of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and is driven by fibroblast-to-myofibroblast transformation (FMT), excessive extracellular matrix accumulation, and persistent activation of transforming growth factor-β (TGFβ) signaling. Although TGFβ is a central mediator of fibrosis, its pleiotropic physiological functions have limited the development of direct anti-fibrotic therapies, highlighting the need to identify context-specific regulators of this pathway. Matrix Gla Protein (MGP) is a vitamin K-dependent extracellular protein best known for inhibiting vascular calcification; however, its role in kidney fibrosis remains unknown. Here, we demonstrate that MGP expression is markedly upregulated in fibroblasts from fibrotic kidneys in mouse models of chronic kidney injury and in human CKD samples. Using inducible global and fibroblast-specific Mgp knockout mice, we show that Mgp deficiency attenuates renal fibrosis, suppresses fibroblast activation, and preserves kidney function following folic acid nephropathy and unilateral ureteral obstruction. Mechanistically, MGP promotes FMT and amplifies TGFβ receptor/Smad3 signaling, whereas genetic or molecular inhibition of MGP blunts TGFβ-driven fibroblast activation both in vivo and in vitro. We further identify phosphorylation and γ-carboxylation as essential post-translational modifications required for the profibrotic activity of MGP. In addition, MGP interacts with bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2), reduces BMP-2 protein abundance, and counteracts BMP-2-mediated suppression of TGFβ signaling, thereby enhancing profibrotic responses. Collectively, these findings identify MGP as a previously unrecognized regulator of TGFβ-dependent fibroblast activation and kidney fibrosis, supporting MGP as a potential fibroblast-associated target for future strategies aimed at limiting CKD progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565948 is a review article
Although insulin-like growth factor binding protein 2 (IGFBP2) is significantly upregulated in diabetic gastroparesis (DGP) and may regulate ICC mitophagy through its interaction with VDAC1, the precise mechanism of action remains unclear. This study aims to investigate the role and mechanism of IGFBP2 in the pathogenesis of DGP, with a specific focus on its impact on mitochondrial quality control in interstitial cells of Cajal (ICCs).An in vivo DGP model was established. IGFBP2 expression was knocked down to assess its effects on systemic metabolism (blood glucose, HbA1c), gastric motor function (gastric emptying, motility, blood flow), and ICC integrity. In vitro, cell viability, apoptosis, mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), and key proteins in the PINK1/Parkin mitophagy pathway were analyzed using CCK-8, flow cytometry, fluorescent probes, and Western blot.IGFBP2 knockdown significantly ameliorated hyperglycemia, promoted gastric emptying, enhanced contractile activity, and improved gastric perfusion. Mechanistically, it enhanced ICC survival, suppressed apoptosis, reduced mitochondrial oxidative stress, and stabilized MMP. Crucially, these benefits were mediated by the downregulation of voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC1) and subsequent inhibition of PINK1/Parkin-dependent mitophagy.These findings indicate that IGFBP2 drives mitochondrial dysfunction and ICC loss via a VDAC1-dependent mitophagy pathway, revealing a previously underrecognized mechanism in DGP. The observed functional recovery and cytoprotection following IGFBP2 knockdown suggest that targeting this pathway may offer a potential therapeutic strategy for DGP.IGFBP2 acts as a potential upstream regulator that drives mitochondrial dysfunction and ICC loss in DGP via a VDAC1-mitophagy axis. These findings unveil IGFBP2 as a promising therapeutic target for intervening in the progression of DGP.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a genetic disorder predisposing patients to malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors (MPNSTs), which represent a leading cause of mortality with poor therapeutic outcomes. Large MPNSTs with NF1 are extremely rare, and only a few clinical reports are published on this disease. We describe a case of giant cervicothoracic MPNST with major vessels encased and present the clinical profiles, radiological findings, operative management, and follow-up data, along with a literature review.A 30-year-old male patient complained of an incidentally discovered painful mass in the right neck that had been progressively enlarging, accompanied by right hand weakness and intrinsic muscle atrophy. Contrast-enhanced MRI revealed a giant tumor closely related with the right brachial plexus and intervertebral foramina of C6-T2. The right subclavian artery and internal jugular vein were tightly encased by the tumor. A multidisciplinary approach incorporating advanced 3D imaging, preoperative vertebral artery embolization, and en bloc resection with vascular reconstruction achieved successful tumor removal while preserving neurological function. The patient received adjuvant radiotherapy and was followed up on the 6th and 12th months postoperatively. There were no complaints or signs of recurrence.The successful long-term outcome provides a valuable template for managing similar high-risk cases, though long-term surveillance remains crucial due to the high recurrence potential of MPNSTs. This report contributes to the limited literature on radical surgical management of NF1-associated MPNSTs and emphasizes the critical balance between oncological control and functional preservation in these challenging cases.© 2026 Yongning, Hongxun, Xiaohai, Kuangwen, Wenbo and Lei.
Colorectal cancer, a leading cause of mortality, is treated with surgery early and irinotecan (IRI) chemotherapy in advanced stages. Insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 3 (IGFBP-3), regulated by p53, mediates tumor suppression and apoptosis. This study evaluates the combined therapeutic effects of IGFBP-3 and IRI in colorectal cancer.SW480 colorectal cancer cells were treated with IGFBP-3, IRI, and their combination; IC50 values were determined by MTT assay, and combination effects were analyzed by CompuSyn. Oxidative stress markers, apoptosis, and cell cycle progression were assessed utilizing flow cytometry. Furthermore, caspase 3/7 activity was measured, and expression levels of Bax, Bcl2, and β-catenin were determined using RT-PCR.The MTT assay revealed IC50 of 8.4 μM for IRI and 43.03 nM for IGFBP-3, with CompuSyn confirming synergistic interaction (CI < 1). Compared to single agents, the combination treatment significantly enhanced apoptosis, induced greater G2/M cell cycle arrest, and markedly increased levels of ROS, MDA, and protein carbonyls while significantly depleting GSH. At the molecular level, the combination synergistically upregulated pro-apoptotic Bax and downregulated anti-apoptotic Bcl2 and oncogenic β-catenin.Our results indicated that IRI and IGFBP-3 show cytotoxicity, with IGFBP-3 enhancing IRI effect by inhibiting Wnt/β-catenin and increasing drug uptake, warranting assessment in normal cells.Copyright: © 2026 Research in Pharmaceutical Sciences.
Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors (MPNSTs) are aggressive soft tissue sarcomas and the most common cause of disease-associated death for neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) patients. In the context of NF1, MPNSTs develop from benign premalignant precursors and the transition to malignancy is typically accompanied by loss of the polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2), which results in aberrant upregulation of over 1200 genes due to global depletion of histone H3 lysine 27 trimethylation (H3K27me3). Previous studies suggest cells compensate for the loss of this repressive histone mark via hypermethylation of the genome. Here we analyzed genome-wide DNA methylation and the transcriptome in MPNST cell lines and isogenic PRC2-deficient and -proficient CRISPR-engineered immortalized human Schwann cells. In addition to effects of PRC2 status, we also measured the effects of two DNA methyltransferase inhibitors (DNMTi), decitabine and azacitidine. We found that PRC2 status does not affect global DNA methylation or average methylation levels across specific genomic features. Furthermore, decitabine and azacitidine have differential effects on MPNSTs. While both DNMTis hypomethylate the genome, they upregulate different targets. Azacitidine upregulates genes involved in RNA processing pathways and exhibits direct tumor cell cytotoxicity, while decitabine upregulates genes involved in the immune response, has no direct-cell killing effects, and likely suppresses tumor growth in vivo by altering the tumor microenvironment. We show that DNA hypomethylation alone is insufficient to kill MPNST cells, regardless of PRC2 status. Consequently, these findings suggest that DNMT inhibitors should be utilized in combination with other targeted therapies for MPNST patients.© 2026 The Author(s). Genes, Chromosomes and Cancer published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
To describe the demographic characteristics and outpatient and inpatient procedures experienced by pediatric patients with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) in the Unified Health System (SUS).This was an observational and retrospective study using administrative data from the Brazilian Outpatient Information System (SIA/SUS) and Inpatient Information System (SIH/SUS), covering the period from January 2008 to August 2024. Patients with a diagnosis code of ICD Q85.0 before the age of 18 were included. Demographic variables, comorbidities, and procedures were analyzed using a descriptive approach.A total of 3,748 patients with outpatient records and 1,262 inpatient admissions were identified. The mean age was 9.7 years, with a slight male predominance (53%). There was a significant increase in the number of visits over time, especially in the Southeast and South regions. The highest proportion of SUS-recorded pediatric NF1 cases per 10,000 pediatric inhabitants was recorded in the Federal District (4.22) and the lowest in Sergipe (0.10). The most common outpatient procedures were diagnostic, with emphasis on magnetic resonance imaging and cranial tomography. In a hospital setting, 9.5% of hospitalizations required intensive care. In the Intensive Care Unit (ICU), lethality rate varied from 0 to 4.4%.Although rare, NF1 represents a high-complexity condition within SUS, with a substantial demand for specialized resources, particularly among pediatric patients. The high frequency of comorbidities and frequent need for ICU admissions highlight the clinical and healthcare burden of the disease. These findings underscore the need for public health strategies to promote early diagnosis, improve health information systems, and expand access to specialized care centers in order to reduce regional disparities and enhance comprehensive care for patients with NF1.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
Glioblastoma (GBM) remains one of the most lethal human malignancies, yet extraneural metastases are exceptionally rare and poorly understood. Standard treatment-surgical resection followed by chemoradiotherapy-offers only modest survival benefits, and therapeutic options for metastatic GBM are limited. Here, we describe a rare clinical case of metastatic GBM and provide comprehensive molecular characterization alongside a potential targeted treatment strategy. The tumor exhibited several molecular features associated with aggressive behavior, including alterations in the tumor suppressor genes NF1, TP53, PTEN, and RB1, a mesenchymal DNA‑methylation subclass, and activation of the MAPK signaling pathway. To functionally evaluate therapeutic vulnerabilities, we developed tumor models using patient‑derived GBM cells and their assembloids with cerebral organoids that recapitulate patient‑specific tumor biology and the human brain microenvironment. We identified the MEK inhibitor trametinib as a promising candidate capable of selectively reducing viability and invasion of highly aggressive, stem‑like GBM cells within our personalized patient-derived tumor avatars. This work highlights the proof-of-concept evidence that MEK pathway inhibition may represent a potential therapeutic vulnerability to counteract rapid tumor spread and improve responsiveness to temzolomide in this individual metastatic GBM case. Study underscores the need for continued research to advance targeted, multi‑modal therapeutic approaches for GBM.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a rare, genetically determined condition characterised by clinical variability, diagnostic uncertainty, and the need for long-term, multidisciplinary care. In this context, patients' experiences are shaped not only by biomedical factors but also by interactions with healthcare professionals. This study explores how adults with NF1 define the characteristics of a "good doctor" based on their experiences within healthcare systems. A qualitative study was conducted using semi-structured, in-depth interviews with 93 adults diagnosed with NF1. An interpretive qualitative approach was adopted, and the data were analysed using Reflexive Thematic Analysis to examine how patients' expectations toward physicians are formed in the context of ongoing care. Participants' accounts revealed that the "good doctor" is understood as a context-dependent concept shaped by patients' experiences rather than a fixed set of clinical competencies. While medical expertise was considered important, participants emphasised communication, empathy, and acknowledgement of patients' perspectives and experiences. Experiences of delayed diagnosis, fragmented care, and inconsistent information were found to shape expectations toward physicians and influence trust in the healthcare system. Negative interactions, including dismissal of symptoms or lack of understanding, contributed to disengagement from care, whereas respectful, partnership-based relationships supported better coping with the condition. Patients' expectations toward physicians are shaped by their long-term experiences of living with NF1 and navigating healthcare systems. The findings highlight the importance of integrating clinical expertise with patient-centred communication and coordinated care. Strengthening these aspects may improve patient trust, engagement, and overall quality of care in rare genetic conditions.© 2026. The Author(s).
Neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1) is a cancer predisposition syndrome caused by pathogenic variants of the NF1 gene. Here, we analyze the incidence and risk of cancer and especially the risk of multiple primary cancers in individuals with NF1.The previously established Finnish NF1 cohort was extended to include 1,811 individuals with verified NF1 and followed up using the nationwide Finnish Cancer Registry for 30,612 person-years over 1987-2020. Standardized incidence ratios (SIRs) were used to analyze cancer incidence.A total of 296 first primary cancers occurred in individuals with NF1 during the follow-up, yielding an SIR of 4.92 (95% CI 4.38-5.52). The SIR was 4.30 (95% CI 3.27-5.54) for second primary cancers with 59 cancers observed. Therefore, the history of first primary cancer did not, in general, indicate altered risk for second primary cancer among individuals with NF1 (P=0.377). Overall, NF1 was associated with a steadily increasing cumulative risk for cancer throughout the lifetime. Women with NF1 had a 20.9% (95% CI 15.9-27.4%) lifetime risk for breast cancer with significantly increased incidence at ages <50 and ≥50 years (SIRs 4.90, 95% CI 2.99-7.56 and 2.67, 95% CI 1.76-3.89, respectively).The history of a prior cancer does not predict the overall future risk for cancer in NF1. Nevertheless, the estimates are consistent with some subpopulations having an increased risk for multiple cancers. Regarding breast cancer predisposition, the results confirm NF1 as a moderate-risk gene linked to increased incidence across all ages, i.e., not only in young women.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
BACKGROUND Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) and Marfan syndrome (MFS) are genetically determined systemic disorders. Their simultaneous occurrence is exceptionally rare, with only a few cases reported in the literature. CASE REPORT A 13-year-old boy was admitted to a cardiology clinic due to mitral and tricuspid valve prolapse. He was tall, with severe scoliosis and distinctive dysmorphic features typical of MFS. More than 20 cafe-au-lait spots, characteristic of NF1, were present on his skin. The family history included NF1 in his twin brother, mother, maternal uncle, and maternal grandmother. The maternal uncle also exhibited phenotypic features of MFS and died at a young age from a suspected ruptured intracranial aneurysm. Genetic testing in our patient revealed an NF1 mutation, as well as a 16p13.11 microduplication that could explain his developmental delay and speech difficulties. The diagnosis of MFS was based on characteristic dysmorphic features and the presence of aortic root dilation, despite negative findings concerning the fibrillin-1 (FBN1) mutation typically associated with MFS. CONCLUSIONS A thorough assessment of physical features is essential to detect atypical phenotypes and recognize potential coexistence of multiple genetic syndromes. This case highlights the clinical importance of systematic cardiac evaluation, given that cardiac abnormalities typical of MFS may be critical for its recognition. Reporting such an unusual coexistence of NF1 and MFS underscores the need for multidisciplinary care to improve long-term outcomes in patients with overlapping genetic disorders.
Considering the shared physiological mechanisms between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), it is plausible that certain compounds may exert therapeutic effects on both neurological disorders. This study aimed to employ in silico techniques to investigate the pharmacological mechanisms of huperzine A (HA) as an alternative treatment for PD and AD.Molecular targets of HA and genes associated with AD and PD were identified from public databases. Gene Ontology analysis, metabolic pathway analysis, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction were performed to identify shared molecular targets. Molecular docking was performed to assess HA affinity for hub proteins and to compare it with that of drugs used to treat AD and PD.The results suggested that HA interacts with 77 molecular targets common to both diseases. Enrichment analysis revealed that proteins from these targets were involved in biological functions, such as serotonin and amine binding. Hub proteins (SRC, TP53, AKT1, and CASP3) were identified from the PPI network. Furthermore, molecular docking simulations showed favorable binding of HA to the hub proteins and adequate binding to the targets of standard drugs (MAOB and ACHE). On the other hand, molecular dynamics analyses were performed to compare the binding characteristics of HA with those of the control targets.HA may modulate SRC, CASP3, and AKT1, suggesting a pleiotropic mechanism underlying the association between AD and PD. These computational findings provide a rational basis for experimental validation by modulating signaling pathways implicated in inflammatory processes and inhibiting enzymes involved in neurotransmitter degradation.This study contributes to the understanding of the neuroprotective activity of HA in AD and PD. However, further in vitro and in vivo investigations are required to confirm the dual therapeutic potential of HA in the treatment of AD and PD.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a type of inherited disorder of hemoglobin characterized by recurring vaso-occlusive pain crises that affect many organ systems. Although it is uncommon, involvement of the orofacial region, such as the mandible area and jaw, can lead to a mandibular osteomyelitis, which can cause serious morbidity and diagnostic uncertainty. We describe a 17-year-old male Saudi patient with SCD who initially complained of bodily ache before developing fever, facial swelling, frontoparietal head swelling, and elevated inflammatory markers. The image resembled an odontogenic abscess along with frontoparietal head collection. However, the patient's clinical history, painful crises, elevated inflammatory markers, and high Hb S% along with further radiological study were all compatible with a mandibular osteomyelitis along with acute soft head syndrome. Vigorous supportive care with exchange transfusions to lower Hb S%, antibiotic support, and multidisciplinary consultation was all part of the management. The patient was steadily getting better, and after 1 month from starting management, all of the facial and head swelling had completely disappeared. In conclusion, this case highlights the presentation of two uncommon SCD manifestations: mandibular osteomyelitis and acute soft head syndrome in young SCD patient. Additionally, it demonstrated how crucial it is to keep mandibular crisis (osteomyelitis) as a differential diagnosis for orofacial pain in SCD patients and how lowering Hb S% is important for treating such instances.Copyright 2026 Authors.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 42160654
Herein, a dual-channel electrochemical method is proposed to simultaneously detect monoamine oxidase B and acetylcholinesterase without cross-talk.
The present study reports the isolation and characterization of secondary metabolites from the methanolic extract of Knema malayana leaves, including five polymethoxylated flavones 3',4',5,7-tetramethoxyflavone (1), 3',4',5',5,7-pentamethoxyflavone (2), 4'-hydroxy-3',5',5,7-tetramethoxyflavone (3), 3-hydroxy-3',4',5',5,7-pentamethoxyflavone (4), and 3,3',5',5,7-pentamethoxyflavone (5). Structural elucidation was performed using 1D and 2D nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), IR, MS, and, in the case of compound (2), single-crystal X-ray diffraction. The isolated compounds were evaluated for their inhibitory activity against acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and 5-lipoxygenase (5-LOX). Among them, compound (2) exhibited the most notable dual inhibitory activity, with IC50 values of 10.2 μM (AChE) and 12.6 μM (5-LOX). Molecular docking supported these findings, with binding affinities of -10.5 kcal/mol (AChE) and -7.2 kcal/mol (5-LOX), revealing key hydrogen bonds and π-cation interactions within active site residues. Other flavonoids, particularly compounds (1) and (5), also displayed notable binding profiles. In silico absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion, and toxicity (ADMET) evaluation using the Toxometris.ai platform indicated favorable drug-likeness and safety profiles, including non-mutagenic and non-cardiotoxic predictions, along with acceptable pharmacokinetic properties such as aqueous solubility, Caco-2 permeability, plasma protein binding, and microsomal stability. These findings were further supported by promising physicochemical and medicinal chemistry properties, including quantitative estimate of drug-likeness (QED) scores ranging from 0.65 to 0.75 and the absence of pan-assay interference compounds (PAINS) alerts, among other parameters. This study highlights the therapeutic relevance of K. malayana polymethoxylated flavones as promising dual-target AChE and LOX inhibitor with favorable safety and pharmacokinetic properties, supporting their potential development for neuroinflammatory disorders.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Polyethylene microplastics (PE-MPs) are widespread in freshwater, and their toxicity may vary among particle-size groups; however, mass-equivalent groups also differ in particle-number concentration. This study compared biomarker responses in Far Eastern catfish, Silurus asotus, exposed to small (S-MPs; nominally 34 μm) and large (L-MPs; nominally 125 μm) PE-MPs at 0-1,600 mg/L for 5 or 10 days. Levels of heat shock protein 90 (HSP90), cortisol, lysozyme, immunoglobulin M (IgM), and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) were measured in gill, intestine, and liver. Exposure to PE-MPs generally increased HSP90 and cortisol levels and reduced lysozyme, IgM, and AChE levels. S-MPs treatments generally elicited significant responses at lower nominal mass concentrations than L-MPs treatments and showed descriptively higher integrated biomarker response version 2 (IBRv2) values at all concentrations. Principal component analysis (PCA) showed discernible but partially overlapping distributions of the two groups. Permutational multivariate analysis of variance (PERMANOVA) identified concentration as the dominant source of variation in the biomarker profile (R2 = 64.0%), with effects of particle-size group (R2 = 6.1%), exposure duration (R2 = 3.3%), and the particle-size group × concentration interaction (R2 = 4.9%). At equal nominal mass concentrations, S-MP treatments were estimated to contain approximately 17 times as many particles as L-MP treatments, and measured size distributions partially overlapped. Thus, responses should be interpreted as particle-size-group-associated under mass-equivalent conditions rather than attributable solely to particle diameter. Because the tested concentrations substantially exceeded reported freshwater abundances, this study provides short-term, high-concentration hazard-characterization data rather than evidence of effects at current environmental exposure levels.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
The pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is closely associated with cholinergic neuronal impairment, which is induced by excessive degradation of acetylcholine (ACh) mediated by acetylcholinesterase (AChE). In this study, a series of novel indole-fused polycyclic derivatives (1-28) were designed, synthesized, and assessed for their AChE inhibitory activities. The biological evaluation results demonstrated that most of the compounds exhibited moderate to excellent AChE inhibitory activities. Among them, compounds 8, 9, 21, and 26 showed leading AChE inhibitory activity with IC50 values of 0.29 μM, 1.5 μM, 1.2 μM, and 1 μM, respectively, which were superior to the positive control galantamine (IC50 = 2.2 μM). Furthermore, favorable drug-likeness profiles and optimal pharmacokinetic properties were confirmed for compound 8 through ADME analysis. Stable binding interactions between compound 8 and AChE were validated by the results of 100 ns molecular dynamics simulations. Overall, compound 8 was characterized as a potent and well-qualified AChE inhibitor, and further systematic investigations are warranted for its application in the treatment of AD-related diseases.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Anthyllis henoniana leaves and flowers were subjected to fractionated extraction using cyclohexane (CYHA), dichloromethane (DCM), ethyl acetate (EtOAc) and methanol (MeOH). The leaves-MeOH extract showed the highest yield and total polyphenol contents (TPC) compared to the flowers. The strongest antiradical activity (IC50 = 7.7 µg/mL) was recorded for the leaves compared to flowers (>50 µg/mL). The HPLC-DAD analysis showed the presence of eight and twelve bioactive compounds in the leaf and flower extracts, respectively. The flowers-CYHA extract exhibited the best anti-5-lipoxygenase (anti-5-LOX) activity (IC50 = 15 µg/mL) compared to the leaves (IC50 = 42 to 47 µg/mL). Anthyllis henoniana leaves showed greater anti-acetylcholinesterase (anti-AChE) activity than the flowers. The leaves-DCM fraction induced 60 and 70% cell growth inhibition against MCF-7 and HCT-116, respectively. Furthermore, the molecular docking investigations supported the in vitro antioxidant and anti-5-LOX patterns, revealing that the identified compounds exhibited low binding energies and interacted effectively within the novel human peroxidase (PDB:1PRX) and the crystal structure of soybean lipoxygenase-B (PDB: 2IUJ) enzymes, respectively. The obtained results indicated that the leaves-MeOH extract was the most enriched in polar compounds with high antioxidant and cytotoxic capacities, whereas the flowers-CYHA extracts accumulated nonpolar compounds of an effective anti-inflammatory capacity.© 2025 The Author(s). Chemistry & Biodiversity published by Wiley‐VHCA AG.
Hepatomegaly in hemolytic disorders, including in thalassemia, is a common complication, primarily due to hemosiderosis and activation of extramedullary hematopoiesis. Globin chain imbalance leads to chronic hemolysis and ineffective erythropoiesis, which are associated with suppression of hepcidin expression. Reduced hepcidin levels may increase iron absorption and accumulation, contributing to oxidative stress and liver tissue damage. Iron chelation therapy, such as deferipron, is effective but has side effects, so safer alternatives are needed. Sappanwood (Caesalpinia sappan L.) contains the active compound brazilin, which chelates iron and exhibits antioxidant activity, potentially reducing oxidative stress, improving iron metabolism disorders, and reducing hepatomegaly. This study aims to evaluate the potential of sappanwood extract as a natural iron chelator and antioxidant.This experimental study used male Wistar rats (180-250 g) with a model of iron overload hemolytic anemia, which were divided into normal controls, negative controls (phenylhydrazine 40 mg/kg BW), positive controls (deferiprone 75 mg/kg BW), and sappanwood extract (SWE) treatment (50, 100, 200 mg/kg BW) for 14 days. The parameters measured included iron metabolism, hepatomegaly, liver function, hepcidin-related gene expression, and oxidative stress. Data were analyzed using ANOVA, with p < 0.05 considered significant.The results showed that administration of 100 mg/kg BW SWE provided optimal improvement (p < 0.05), including reductions in hepatomegaly, SGPT, hemosiderin, lipid peroxidation, bilirubin, extramedullary hematopoiesis, and modulation in iron-related gene expression, including Hamp, Bmp6, Epo, and Ftl.These findings confirm the potential of sappanwood as a potential therapeutic candidate for the management of iron overload in thalassemia.© 2026 The Author(s). Animal Models and Experimental Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of The Chinese Association for Laboratory Animal Sciences.
The present study investigated the therapeutic potential of quercetin nanoparticles (QNPs), administered alone or in combination with levodopa/carbidopa (L/C), against reserpine-induced neurochemical alterations and motor dysfunction in a rat model of Parkinson's disease (PD). Animals were randomly assigned to five experimental groups: a control group, a reserpine-induced PD group, and PD groups treated with QNPs, L/C, or their combination. Motor performance was assessed using the open-field and grid traction tests. Reserpine administration induced marked motor impairments accompanied by significant reductions in dopamine (DA), serotonin (5-HT), and norepinephrine (NE) levels in both the striatum and midbrain. These neurochemical deficits were associated with elevated monoamine oxidase (MAO) activity, increased lipid peroxidation (malondialdehyde, MDA), enhanced acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, and increased nitric oxide (NO) levels in both brain regions. Additionally, reduced glutathione (GSH) levels were decreased in the midbrain but elevated in the striatum. Treatment with QNPs significantly restored monoamine levels and normalized MAO and AChE activities. Moreover, QNPs markedly attenuated oxidative stress and improved motor performance in reserpine-treated rats. Similarly, L/C administration effectively reversed monoamine depletion, normalized enzymatic activities, and mitigated oxidative stress. Notably, combined treatment with QNPs and L/C produced effects comparable to those observed with either treatment alone, suggesting a lack of additive or synergistic interaction. These findings demonstrate that QNPs exert a significant neuroprotective effect against reserpine-induced motor dysfunction and neurochemical disturbances, supporting their potential as a therapeutic strategy for Parkinsonian pathology.© 2026. The Author(s).
Effective coastal biomonitoring requires sentinel species capable of capturing distinct contamination pathways and responding consistently to environmental stressors. This study investigated pollution-induced biochemical stress in two co-occurring sentinel species along the Moroccan Atlantic coast using a comparative multi-species approach. Seasonal variations in oxidative stress biomarkers, catalase (CAT), glutathione S-transferase (GST), and malondialdehyde (MDA), and a neurotoxicity biomarker, acetylcholinesterase (AChE), were assessed in the mussel Mytilus galloprovincialis and the barnacle Pollicipes pollicipes across four seasons, at a polluted site (Safi industrial harbor) and a reference site (Cap Beddouza). Biomarker responses revealed pronounced spatial differences, with consistently elevated oxidative stress at the polluted site, where GST and CAT activities and MDA levels all approximately doubled, while AChE displayed contrasting patterns, indicative of both compensatory responses and neurotoxic inhibition. Strong interspecific correlations were observed for enzymatic biomarkers (GST: ρ = 0.64; CAT: ρ = 0.54; AChE: ρ = 0.44), whereas lipid peroxidation remained weakly correlated (MDA: ρ = 0.16), suggesting divergent cellular damage pathways despite similar oxidative stress exposure. Environmental variables explained 47% of biomarker variability, highlighting the role of seasonal conditions (i.e., pH, temperature, dissolved oxygen) in modulating species-specific vulnerability. Despite this modulation, pollution contrast dominated biomarker responses, as supported by the Integrated Biomarker Response index, which showed 2-4-fold higher values at the polluted site. Growth suppression (21-31%) further indicated chronic energy reallocation toward detoxification processes. Overall, this study indicates that integrating multi-species and multi-biomarker approaches enhances the detection of ecological stress, and provides a robust early warning framework for coastal pollution assessment under dynamic environmental conditions.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566099 is a review article
Liupao tea (LPT) undergoes significant bioactive changes during aging, while the link between these chemical shifts and the regulation of oxidative stress pathologies remains unclear. Therefore, this study integrated metabolomics, network pharmacology, and molecular docking to analyze Maosheng (MS) and Tianyu (TY) LPT samples aged 0-15 and 0-10 years, respectively, and elucidated the potential mechanisms of LPT in five oxidative stress - related diseases, including depression, obesity, Alzheimer's disease, diabetes, and hypertension. Metabolomics identified 42 and 13 core antioxidant metabolites in MS and TY samples, respectively. Among them, core metabolites in MS peaked at 5 years, while TY sustained high abundance levels from 3 to 8 years. Network pharmacology revealed synergistic regulation of all five pathologies by both LPTs, and eight key components were screened from MS, and nine from TY based on degree values. Interestingly, the highest node density was shown in depression, and Sankey connectivity confirmed its strongest modulatory effect. Besides, the core depression‑related components and targets were subjected to molecular docking simulations, and binding energies ranged from - 5.37 to -8.88 kcal/mol for MS components, as well as from - 4.11 to -8.39 kcal/mol for TY components. Importantly, oleaside A and CCRIS 7793 showed the strongest affinities for GAPDH and AKT1, respectively. In general, these results laid a practical foundation for developing an LPT product aimed at relieving oxidative stress-related health issues.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Current glioblastoma (GBM) models often rely on chemically undefined exogenous extracellular matrices (ECMs) and serums that limit understanding of autonomous cellular behaviors driving tumor progression. Here, we present an exogenous ECM-free biomanufacturing process for GBM organoids (GBOs) that recapitulate pathological development relative to size and spatial distribution. These GBOs exhibit a conserved glioma signature established from The Cancer Genome Atlas clinical datasets. Trajectory analyses of neurovascular unit (NVU) zonation, cell-type differentiation, and basement membrane converged with clinical benchmarks highlighting a critical developmental milestone at the 2 mm diameter stage. Immunofluorescence revealed a matrix-priming cascade of tenascin-C (TNC) at 1 mm diameter and fibronectin (FN) at 1.5 mm diameter to provide the necessary biochemical cues and biophysical assembly for endothelial cells at 2 mm diameter. Lastly, the 2 mm diameter GBOs displayed a distinct vascular-like area characterized by capillary-scale lumen distributions (5-15 μm) and peak junctional complexity, similar to in vivo capillary beds. However, transcriptional divergences in arterial and proteoglycan markers suggest biochemical cues and morphology are insufficient for full physiological maturation without confirmed internal hemodynamic shear stress. Despite these results, our GBOs serve as a high-fidelity structural framework for modeling GBM NVU-like regions that may be used as a translatable platform for TNC- and FN-targeted therapies designed to enhance drug delivery across the NVU.© 2026 The Author(s). Bioengineering & Translational Medicine published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Institute of Chemical Engineers.
The infrapatellar fat pad (IFP) is increasingly recognized as an active contributor to knee osteoarthritis (KOA) pathogenesis. However, age-related transcriptional changes in the IFP remain poorly understood, and whether observed differences are purely age-dependent or confounded by disease status is unclear. This study aimed to compare transcriptomic profiles of the IFP between young patients with traumatic knee injury and older patients with KOA.IFP samples were obtained from three young trauma patients (21-28 years, KL grade 0) and three older patients with KOA (64-72 years, KL grade III-IV). Bulk RNA sequencing was performed to compare transcriptomes between groups. Differential expression was analyzed with DESeq2 (|log2FC| ≥1, unadjusted p < 0.05), followed by GO and KEGG pathway enrichment. Real-time PCR confirmed key expression changes.Compared with the young trauma group, the old KOA group exhibited 247 upregulated (CSN1S1, SCN9A, P2RY14, EIF3C, etc) and 334 downregulated genes (PI15, WISP3, DMKN, NUTM2G, etc). The old KOA group exhibited significantly reduced expression of extracellular matrix (ECM) genes, including COL1A1, COL2A1, and FN1. Additionally, core genes of the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, such as AKT1, ITGA2B, and MYB, were also downregulated in the old KOA group.The IFP in old KOA exhibits a transcriptomic profile characterized by dampened ECM structural gene expression and suppressed PI3K-Akt signaling compared with young trauma patients. While confounded by injury status, these findings suggest that age-related loss of ECM integrity may contribute to IFP dysfunction in established KOA and warrant validation in healthy aging cohorts.
Hyperuricemia (HUA) is a common metabolic disorder with limited safe and effective therapeutic options. This study integrated GEO dataset mining and network pharmacology to explore the anti-HUA efficacy and mechanism of pomegranate peel polyphenol extract (PPE). In a mouse model of HUA induced by potassium oxonate and 5% fructose water, PPE significantly reduced serum, urinary, and fecal uric acid levels, attenuated the increases in creatinine and blood urea nitrogen, improved estimated glomerular filtration rate, and ameliorated renal pathological damage, inflammation, and xanthine oxidase activity. Integration of GEO-derived HUA-related genes and computational target prediction for PPE identified 44 common targets, and protein-protein interaction network analysis revealed core targets including Akt1. KEGG enrichment highlighted the PI3K-AKT signaling pathway as a key mediator. Western blotting in vivo and in vitro confirmed that PPE suppressed PI3K-AKT phosphorylation and downregulated the urate reabsorption transporters URAT1 and GLUT9. Furthermore, experiments in UA-induced HK-2 cells demonstrated that ellagic acid, a major bioactive component of PPE, acted through the same pathway. These findings indicate that PPE reduces uric acid levels and protects the kidney via modulation of the PI3K-AKT pathway, providing an integrative data-driven rationale for its potential as a functional food or pharmaceutical agent against HUA.© 2026 The Author(s). Chemical Biology & Drug Design published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Plastic additives are pervasive pollutants that readily leach into water, affecting human health; however, their toxicological risk assessment remains limited. This study used network toxicology to identify disease-associated common targets in plastic additives, including benzotriazole, bisphenol A, 2,4-Di-tert-butylphenol, mirex, diphenyl ether, bisphenol S, dibutyl phthalate, PFNA, and PFBS. The core targets identified using network toxicology for these plastic additives were AKT1, PTGS2, BCL2, ESR1, and GSK3B. In addition, an integrated in silico toxicity assessment of selected plastic additives using molecular docking, MM/GBSA analysis, and molecular dynamics simulation was performed to assess neurotoxicity, reproductive toxicity, and carcinogenic potential. Molecular docking revealed the high-scoring docked complexes as PTGS2-benzotriazole (-5.047 kcal/mol), PTGS2-bisphenol A (-5.264 kcal/mol), PTGS2-diphenyl ether (-5.078 kcal/mol), PTGS2-bisphenol S (-5.519 kcal/mol), PTGS2-2,4-di-tert-butylphenol (-5.565 kcal/mol), ESR1-benzotriazole (-5.339 kcal/mol), and ESR1-2,4-di-tert-butylphenol (-5.626 kcal/mol). The stability of highly interacting complexes was then assessed through MM/GBSA calculations and molecular dynamics simulations. A more negative ΔGBind score in MM/GBSA analysis indicated a stronger and more favourable interaction. In silico analysis of plastic additive-biological target interactions identified potential carcinogenic, reproductive, and neurological health hazards and revealed key molecular pathways underlying plastic additive-induced toxicity. Further in vitro/in vivo studies are required to validate these computational findings.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Public cord blood (CB) banks face declining inventories worldwide, but the relative contributions of regulatory changes, declining birth rates, and infectious disease outbreaks remain unclear. We performed a retrospective analysis of 73 925 CB units submitted to a Korean public cord blood bank from 2006 to 2025, encompassing two regulatory transitions in total nucleated cell (TNC) criteria and three major outbreaks (H1N1, MERS, and COVID-19), using interrupted time series, correlation, and multivariable analyses. Of 73 925 submissions, 27 684 (37.4%) were banked. The 2011 TNC ≥ 8 × 108 criterion produced a moderate reduction in banking rate from 37.7% to 33.6%, while the 2021 TNC ≥ 11 × 108 revision caused an abrupt decline from 52.6% to 24.4%. H1N1 and MERS had minimal effects, whereas the COVID-19 period showed a sustained decline coinciding with the 2021 TNC revision. Birth decline correlated strongly with submissions (R2 = 0.94). Regulatory criteria changes were the primary driver of banking rate fluctuations, while declining births affected submission volume. Among three outbreaks, only the COVID-19 period overlapped with a sustained decline, likely reflecting concurrent regulatory change rather than the pandemic itself. CB quality and safety were maintained throughout all disruptions. These findings have direct translational implications for sustaining the global CB inventory as a critical source of hematopoietic stem cells for transplantation.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Sodium benzoate (SB), a common food preservative, has raised concerns regarding multi-organ toxicity, but its cardiovascular effects remain unclear. Here, we combined network toxicology, molecular docking, and experimental validation to investigate SB-induced cardiotoxicity. The toxicity profile of SB was predicted using ProTox 3.0 and ADMETlab 3.0, which identified potential cardiotoxicity signals. Network analysis identified AKT1 as a hub target, with functional enrichment implicating the PI3K-AKT apoptotic cascade, and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations confirmed stable SB-AKT1 binding. To experimentally validate these predictions, we assessed cardiac function and PI3K/AKT signaling in SB-exposed mice and AC16 cardiomyocytes. In vivo, SB impaired cardiac function and disrupted myocardial morphology, accompanied by elevated serum LDH, CK-MB, and DHE levels. In vitro, SB reduced cardiomyocyte viability, with equimolar NaCl controls confirming specific toxicity of the benzoate moiety. Mechanistically, SB suppressed PI3K/AKT phosphorylation and its downstream GSK3β pro-survival axis, leading to mitochondrial depolarization, BAX/BCL2 imbalance, and Cleaved-Caspase3 activation, collectively indicating mitochondrial apoptosis. mTOR phosphorylation remained unchanged, suggesting that mTOR may not be a functional downstream effector in this model. Notably, although SB elevated ROS production, ROS scavenging failed to restore AKT signaling or rescue cell death, whereas direct AKT activation reversed mitochondrial depolarization and apoptosis, confirming that AKT inhibition, rather than oxidative stress, is the primary driver. Collectively, these findings identify ROS-independent suppression of the PI3K/AKT/GSK3β axis as a key mechanism underlying SB-induced cardiotoxicity, extending its toxicological profile to the cardiovascular system.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a multifactorial airway disorder characterized by chronic inflammation, epithelial dysfunction, and dysregulated intracellular signaling. Transient receptor potential melastatin 3 (TRPM3), a Ca2⁺ permeable ion channel has emerged as a potential regulator of inflammatory and survival pathways, however, its therapeutic relevance in COPD remains poorly understood. The present study integrates network pharmacology and molecular docking to identify putative targets of TRPM3 agonists CIM0216, pregnenolone sulfate (preg sulfate), and nifedipine in COPD. A total of 2442 unique COPD associated genes were identified and integrated with predicted TRPM3 agonist targets revealing 20, 28, and 38 common targets for CIM0216, preg sulfate, and nifedipine, respectively. Enrichment analyses highlighted EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor resistance and PI3K/AKT signaling as key COPD related pathways which also correlated with major TFs. Further, AKT1, JAK2, and PTGS2 were identified as central hub genes, particularly associated with CIM0216 and nifedipine. No common hub genes were identified among all three TRPM3 agonists, nor between the CIM0216-preg sulfate and nifedipine-preg sulfate combinations. The hub genes were validated through GEO dataset (GSE57148). The identified miRNAs form a dense regulatory network controlling inflammatory, proliferative, and immune signaling pathways through key transcription factors, underscoring the importance of miRNA-mediated regulation in COPD progression. Molecular docking revealed that CIM0216 exhibited strong binding affinity towards TRPM3 (ΔG = - 8.6 kcal/mol with 3 hydrogen bonds), AKT1 (ΔG = - 10.8 kcal/mol with 4 hydrogen bonds), JAK2 (ΔG = - 9.0 kcal/mol with 4 hydrogen bonds), and PTGS2 (ΔG = - 9.7 kcal/mol with 6 hydrogen bonds) as compared with nifedipine which showed moderate affinity towards TRPM3 (ΔG = - 7.1 kcal/mol and 6 hydrogen bonds), AKT1 (ΔG = - 7.3 kcal/mol and 3 hydrogen bonds), JAK2 (ΔG = - 6.4 kcal/mol and 2 hydrogen bonds), and PTGS2 (ΔG = - 7.6 kcal/mol and 11 hydrogen bonds), supporting its potential for effective modulation of COPD associated signaling pathways. The study predicts that CIM0216 might act as a potential multi-target agonist of key inflammatory and survival pathways implicated in COPD. The findings propose a mechanistic insight into TRPM3-mediated signaling and support further experimental validation of TRPM3 agonists as novel therapeutic candidates for COPD.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s40203-026-00707-3.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552286 is a review article
Genome-wide analyses of transcription factor (TF) motif binding sites have largely emphasized individual high-affinity sites, while overlooking the regulatory importance of locally repetitive motif clusters. Such clusters, including combinations of weak and strong binding sites, can collectively enhance TF occupancy and regulatory activity. Here we present Motif-Cluster, an open-source framework for motif-driven prioritization and visualization of TF binding clusters using sequence information alone. Motif-Cluster integrates a density-based clustering strategy with flexible modeling of binding-site gaps and affinity signals, enabling the identification and ranking of candidate regulatory regions without requiring experimental binding data. Through simulations and multiple real-data analyses, we show that combining gap distributions with binding affinity effectively balances cluster size and signal strength while reducing noise from weak sites. Application to ZNF410 successfully recovers the previously characterized binding clusters in the CHD4 promoter, which are conserved between human and mouse. Additional case studies involving PHB1, TWIST1, and EGR1 further demonstrate the general applicability of the method across diverse transcription factors. Motif-Cluster also provides intuitive visualization and reproducible workflows to facilitate interpretation of spatially dense motif patterns. Overall, Motif-Cluster offers a robust and flexible approach for prioritizing transcription factor regulatory regions from genome-wide motif scans, enabling biological discovery and guiding experimental design, particularly in settings where direct genome-wide binding assays are unavailable.Copyright: © 2026 Zhou, Yao. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
BRAF fusions are rare but clinically relevant oncogenic events in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), yet their molecular characteristics and optimal management remain unclear.We retrospectively analyzed 97 patients with NSCLC harboring kinase domain-retaining BRAF fusions, stratified into de novo (N = 43) and acquired (N = 54) groups. Clinical and genomic features were compared across subgroups and comparator driver cohorts.We identified 104 BRAF fusions involving 53 unique partner genes, 29 of which were novel. Common partners included AGK (12.5%), IGR (11.5%), ZC3HAV1 (7.7%), TRIM24 (5.8%), and MKRN1 (5.8%). IGR and DTNB were more commonly observed in de novo cases, whereas AGK-BRAF fusions predominated in acquired cases. Among de novo cases, 65.1% lacked co-occurring drivers. ZNF703 mutations and NRF2 pathway alterations were recurrently enriched in BRAF fusion-only tumors, while CTNNB1 and NKX2-1 mutations were enriched versus ALK-rearranged cases. BRAF fusions co-occurring with other drivers showed enrichment of KMT2C and RTK-RAS pathway mutations, with TP53 mutations enriched compared to RET-rearranged tumors. One patient with TRIM24-BRAF and EGFR exon 19 deletion derived clinical benefit from dual MEK and EGFR inhibition. Acquired BRAF fusions were frequently detected after EGFR-TKI therapy, representing the predominant alteration in 63.0% of cases. Median progression-free survival on prior EGFR-TKIs aligned with clinical trial benchmarks.BRAF fusions in NSCLC are molecularly heterogeneous, with distinct genomic landscapes between de novo and acquired cases. These findings support repeated comprehensive genomic profiling at progression and suggest that pathway-directed combinations, such as MEK plus EGFR inhibition, may offer individualized treatment options for selected patients.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a prevalent respiratory disease characterized by airflow limitation, with genetic factors playing a crucial role in its pathogenesis. Effective-component compatibility of Bufei Yishen formula Ⅲ (ECC-BYF Ⅲ) has been shown to effectively ameliorate COPD symptoms; however, its underlying molecular mechanism remains elusive.To investigate the intervention mechanism of ECC-BYF Ⅲ on COPD and identify hub genes.Using the GSEA method, which retains all gene information, and exhibits robustness under small-sample conditions as well as high statistical power, COPD-related pathways were identified. Among the genes contained in those pathways, hub genes were identified by protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis, cytoHubba algorithm, etc. The reliability of the identified hub genes was validated by independent datasets, qRT-PCR in rats with COPD, HUVEC and MH-S cells, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations (MD), and surface plasmon resonance (SPR).Compared with COPD rats, ECC-BYF Ⅲ could ameliorate pathological changes and improve lung function. Then, utilizing the RNA-seq data from COPD rats, 106 disease related pathways were identified in the COPD group when contrasted with the control group (FDR < 0.05), of which 72 pathways were reversed after ECC-BYF Ⅲ intervention. Of the 3081 genes in those reversal pathways, 395 genes were differentially dysregulated in the COPD rat samples as opposed to the control samples (FDR < 0.05). Then, six genes (Gsk3b, Ctnnb1, Pten, Met, Pik3r3, and Erbb2) were identified by PPI network analysis, cytoHubba algorithm, and GeneCards database. Two hub genes (Ctnnb1 and Pik3r3) were well confirmed in independent datasets, the COPD rat model, HUVEC and MH-S cells, molecular docking, MD, and SPR.Two COPD hub genes were identified, and their regulation by ECC-BYF Ⅲ was demonstrated. Our results might provide a basis for the study of the mechanism of COPD, and its prevention and treatment guided by traditional Chinese medicine.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
β-catenin-coding gene CTNNB1 is a top-ranking risk gene for autism and intellectual disability. To better understand how CTNNB1 haploinsufficiency is involved in the pathophysiology of neurodevelopmental disorders, we generated a new mouse model that enables Ctnnb1 deletion in forebrain excitatory neurons starting at embryonic corticogenesis. Behavioural assays of the Ctnnb1 conditional knockout (cKO) mice revealed significant fear memory deficits, despite normal social preference, anxiety, spatial and recognition memory. Pyramidal neurons in prefrontal cortex (PFC) of Ctnnb1 cKO mice exhibited the significantly elevated intrinsic excitability but markedly decreased AMPA receptor-mediated synaptic response, while GABAA or NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic response was unchanged. Gene profiling revealed the significantly reduced mRNA level of Syp (encoding Synaptophysin) and Nlng2 (encoding Neuroligin-2) in PFC of Ctnnb1 cKO mice, while most of other screened genes were unchanged. These results suggest that β-catenin deficiency in forebrain excitatory neurons leads to fear conditioning impairment, which could be contributed by the diminished excitatory synaptic transmission in PFC resulting from disrupted synaptic gene expression.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain.
Kidney renal clear cell carcinoma (KIRC) is the most common subtype of renal cell carcinoma, accounting for 75-80% of cases. Although Prohibitin 1 (PHB1) has been implicated in tumorigenesis, its role in KIRC remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the expression, function, and underlying mechanisms of PHB1 in KIRC.PHB1 expression and clinical relevance were analyzed using the Cancer Genome Atlas database (TCGA), Gene Expression Omnibus database (GEO), and TIMER3.0 datasets. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data from 19 KIRC patients and normal kidney samples were used to assess cell-type-specific expression. Functional experiments, including CCK-8, EdU incorporation, colony formation, and Transwell assays, were performed to evaluate the effects of PHB1 on cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. A xenograft model was used to evaluate the effects of PHB1 in vivo. Western blotting and correlation analyses were conducted to assess the potential regulatory interplay between VHL, SKP2, PHB1, and p53.PHB1 was significantly downregulated in KIRC tissues. Single-cell analysis showed reduced PHB1 expression in tumor-derived epithelial cells, fibroblasts, endothelial cells, and immune cells. Lower PHB1 levels were associated with poorer overall survival. PHB1 overexpression inhibited proliferation and migration, whereas knockdown promoted these effects. In vivo, PHB1 overexpression reduced tumor growth. Moreover, VHL knockout altered the protein levels of SKP2 and PHB1. Cellular manipulation of PHB1 moderately altered endogenous p53 protein expression. Based on TCGA data analysis, PHB1 expression showed a positive correlation with VHL and a negative correlation with SKP2.Collectively, PHB1 acts as a potential tumor suppressor in KIRC. Its expression pattern is associated with the VHL-SKP2 signaling axis, and the tumor-suppressive effects of PHB1 may be partially associated with the modulation of p53 expression. These findings suggest that PHB1 has the potential to serve as a reliable biomarker and therapeutic candidate for KIRC treatment.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Oral submucous fibrosis (OSF) is a chronic, potentially malignant disorder strongly associated with areca nut chewing. Cuproptosis, a newly identified form of cell death, may play a role in OSF progression, but the mechanisms remain unclear. This study aimed to explore the involvement of cuproptosis in OSF. Here, we observed a significant increase in cuproptosis markers (FDX1 and LIAS) in OSF lesion tissues compared to normal oral mucosa. In vitro, arecoline induced cuproptosis predominantly in epithelial cells, characterized by increased FDX1 and LIAS expression, disrupted lipoylation of DLAT, and elevated intracellular Cu²⁺ accumulation. An epigenetic modification PCR array revealed that arecoline most markedly upregulated PUS1, a pseudouridine (Ψ) modification synthase. Functional knockdown of PUS1 alleviated arecoline-induced cuproptosis, as evidenced by reduced Cu²⁺ levels and restored lipoic acid expression. Dot blot and PA-ψ-seq further demonstrated that arecoline-induced PUS1 upregulation altered the global tRNA pseudouridylation landscape, with enrichment of Ψ peaks in Wnt- and copper transport-related transcripts. PUS1 knockdown markedly attenuated arecoline-induced β-catenin nuclear localization and the upregulation of MYC, FZD6, CTNNB1, NFAT5, SLC25A39, and VDAC2. In conclusion, we reveal a previously unrecognized mechanism whereby arecoline promotes OSF via PUS1-dependent pseudouridylation remodeling and epithelial cuproptosis, offering novel therapeutic targets for OSF intervention.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13205-026-04931-8.© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Chronic fatty acid (FA) elevation drives metabolic dysfunction-associated liver disease (MASLD). Hepatocytes buffer transient lipid overload via coordinated adaptive mechanisms, but the temporal limits of this capacity remain undefined.We characterized early, intermediate, and prolonged hepatocellular responses to sustained lipid excess.HuH7 hepatocytes were exposed to an equimolar palmitic/oleic acid (PA/OA) mixture for 1, 14, or 28 days. Viability, lipid accumulation, stress-response pathways, insulin signaling, metabolic regulators, mitochondrial markers, [14C]-PA uptake, and exo-metabolomic profiles were assessed (n≥3/group). Data (mean ± SEM) were analyzed by two-way ANOVA with Bonferroni post hoc testing; cumulative cell death by linear regression. P<0.05 was significant.FA treatment increased lipid droplet accumulation 1.4- to 1.7-fold vs. time-matched BSA controls at all time points (p<0.001) and increased the rate of cumulative cell death ∼4.3-fold (1.556±0.083 vs. 0.365±0.054%/day, p<0.001). Exo-metabolomic PCA explained 88.5% of variance (Q2=0.758), with peak lactate release at Day 14 and progressively rising acetate through Day 28. [14C]-PA accumulation at Day 28 was ∼30% lower than Day 1 (∼800 vs. ∼500 cpm/mg protein), with a declining rather than plateauing profile between 20-60 s. By Day 28, FA-treated cells showed lower FASN (p<0.001), CD36 (p<0.05), FABP1 (p<0.001), SIRT1 (p<0.005), and CLOCK (p<0.01) protein levels, and higher CPT1A (p<0.001), pAMPK/AMPK (p<0.01), p53 (p<0.001), Bax/Bcl2 (p<0.005), and respiratory complex I-V abundance (p<0.05-p<0.001) vs. controls.Sustained PA/OA exposure induces a staged hepatocellular response, early lipid-buffering adaptation, intermediate metabolic compensation, and late decompensation, indicating that chronic lipotoxicity reflects progressive loss of regulatory coordination despite persistent metabolic adaptation.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Hypertensive retinopathy is a microvascular complication caused by systemic hypertension and can lead to severe visual impairment. At present, the molecular mechanisms of this disease remain incompletely understood, particularly the global expression profiles and regulatory networks of non-coding RNA (ncRNA). This study aims to comprehensively analyze the genome-wide differential expression profiles of messenger RNA (mRNA), microRNA (miRNA), long non-coding RNA (lncRNA), and circular RNA (circRNA) in retinal tissues from a spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) model of hypertensive retinopathy, and to observe transcriptomic changes after treatment with the calcium channel blocker lacidipine, thereby revealing their potential roles in disease pathogenesis and identifying possible therapeutic targets.SHRs were used as a model of hypertensive retinopathy, and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats were used as controls. Rats were divided into 3 groups: A control group (WKY), a model group (SHR), and a treatment group (SHR+lacidipine). Rats in the treatment group received lacidipine by gavage at 0.5 mg/(kg·d) for 8 consecutive weeks. At the end of the experiment, retinal tissues were collected for histopathological examination by hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining and for high-throughput sequencing. The lncRNA library was used to analyze mRNA, lncRNA, and circRNA expression profiles, and the small RNA (sRNA) library was used to analyze miRNA expression profiles. Differential expression analysis was performed using DESeq2. The screening criteria were |log2 fold change (FC)|≥1 and false discovery rate (FDR) significance criteria for mRNAs and lncRNAs, and |log2FC|≥1 and P<0.05 for miRNAs and circRNAs as exploratory candidates. Differentially expressed RNAs were subjected to Gene Ontology (GO) functional annotation and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis. Competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) regulatory networks involving lncRNA/circRNA-miRNA-mRNA were constructed through target prediction and co‑expression analysis. Ten mRNAs whose expression changes were reversed after treatment were selected for validation by real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (real-time RT-PCR; n=6 per group). Comparisons among multiple groups were performed using one-way analysis of variance and post hoc multiple-comparison tests.1) Verification of the animal model: Blood pressure was significantly higher in the model group than in the control group. The model group exhibited edema of the retinal nerve fiber layer, dilation of vascular lumens, and increased retinal thickness. Lacidipine treatment reduced blood pressure and alleviated these pathological changes. 2) Differential expression of mRNAs: Compared with the control group, 870 mRNAs were significantly downregulated and 1 018 mRNAs were significantly upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 2 644 mRNAs were significantly downregulated and 186 mRNAs were significantly upregulated in the treatment group. GO analysis showed that upregulated mRNAs in the model group were enriched in immune-inflammatory processes, such as leukocyte activation, chemotaxis, defense response, and regulation of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) production, whereas downregulated mRNAs were enriched in G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling, glycoprotein synthesis, ion channel activity, and related processes. KEGG analysis revealed that upregulated mRNAs in the model group were enriched in interleukin-17 (IL-17), TNF, oxidative stress, and lipid inflammatory mediator metabolic pathways, whereas downregulated mRNAs were enriched in phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-protein kinase B (AKT) signaling, vascular smooth muscle contraction, extracellular matrix (ECM)-receptor interaction, and related pathways. In the treatment group, the downregulated mRNAs were mainly enriched in pathways related to immune-inflammatory activation, such as mast cell degranulation and leukocyte degranulation. 3) Treatment-reversed mRNAs: A total of 67 genes that were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment were identified; these genes were mainly enriched in endoplasmic reticulum stress-associated apoptotic signaling, mitophagy, ubiquitin ligase activity, and related processes. In addition, 54 genes that were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment were identified; these genes were mainly enriched in amino acid transport, integrin complex, focal adhesion, glutamate transport activity, and related processes. Real-time RT-PCR validated the expression changes of Med22, Rmt1, Sytl3, Itgb7, and Slc1a3 which were decreased in the model group and increased after treatment, as well as Rnf183, Lrrc29, Lat2, Hist1h4m, and Dpm3, which were increased in the model group and decreased after treatment. These findings were consistent with the sequencing results. 4) Differential expression of miRNAs: Compared with the control group, 30 miRNAs were downregulated and 26 miRNAs were upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 14 miRNAs were downregulated and 53 miRNAs were upregulated in the treatment group. Treatment-reversed miRNAs were identified: Rno-miR-1-3p, novel_miR_1203, and novel_miR_1417 were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment, whereas novel_miR_107 and novel_miR_905 were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment. Their target genes were enriched in regulation of retinal cone/rod cell differentiation, ECM remodeling, the Notch pathway, fatty acid synthesis, and related processes. 5) Differential expression of lncRNAs: Compared with the control group, 786 lncRNAs were downregulated and 764 lncRNAs were upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 217 lncRNAs were downregulated and 230 lncRNAs were upregulated in the treatment group. A total of 55 lncRNAs that were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment, and 76 lncRNAs that were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment, were identified. Their target genes were enriched in immune regulation, wound healing, vascular remodeling, retinol metabolism related to rod-mediated scotopic vision, glutamatergic neuron differentiation, the forkhead box O (FoxO) pathway, retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I)-like receptor signaling, and related processes. 6) Differential expression of circRNAs: Compared with the control group, 45 circRNAs were downregulated and 47 circRNAs were upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 25 circRNAs were downregulated and 22 circRNAs were upregulated in the treatment group. Eleven circRNAs that were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment, and 10 circRNAs that were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment, were identified. Their host genes were enriched in regulation of synaptic neural signaling, second messenger transmission, calcium signaling, and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) signaling pathways. 7) Construction of ceRNA networks: Based on expression patterns and target prediction, multiple lncRNA/circRNA-miRNA-mRNA regulatory networks were constructed. For example, the networks composed of rno_circ_Rims2_10, rno-miR-1-3p, and related mRNAs, such as Mmp14 and Fasn, as well as the novel_miR_1417 related network, may be involved in retinal stress responses, inflammatory regulation, and neurovascular remodeling.This study is the first to integrate and analyze retinal transcriptomic profiles of mRNAs, miRNAs, lncRNAs, and circRNAs in an SHR model of hypertensive retinopathy, and it reveals RNA expression changes associated with lacidipine treatment. The results suggest that immune-inflammatory activation, neurovascular dysfunction, and ncRNA-mediated ceRNA regulatory networks may participate in the pathogenesis of hypertensive retinopathy. The identified differentially expressed molecules and predicted regulatory axes provide a candidate molecular basis for further mechanistic validation and screening of potential therapeutic targets.
The precise etiology and molecular mechanisms underlying pterygium pathogenesis remain poorly understood, and the expression pattern of pluripotency-associated transcription factor SOX2 in human ocular surface has not been fully characterized. Therefore, we aimed to investigate the expression profile of SOX2 and its potential role in pterygium formation.We thoroughly investigated the expression of SOX2 in the cornea, limbus, healthy conjunctiva and pteyrigium by immunohistochemistry, immunocytochemistry and RT-PCR.We found that SOX2 is aberrantly expressed in different cellular layers of cornea, limbus and conjunctiva in human ocular surface tissues. Comparative analysis further revealed a sustained elevated SOX2 expression in the pterygium tissues compared with healthy conjunctiva. This increased SOX2 expression was accompanied by upregulation of Ki67 but not CK15.Our results suggest that SOX2 is expressed at varying levels in human ocular surface tissues. Also, we report, for the first time, that SOX2 may play a regulatory role in the development of pterygium by promoting cellular proliferation during the abnormal extension of conjunctival tissue onto the corneal surface.© The Author(s) 2026.
Esophageal cancer is a malignant tumor with extremely poor prognosis. Its developmental mechanisms remain incompletely elucidated. Altered lipogenesis plays a crucial role in tumor progression. However, the specific mechanisms by which TRIB3 regulates lipid accumulation in esophageal cancer remain unclear. This study aims to investigate how TRIB3-ATF4 interaction influences lipogenic enzyme expression and tumor progression through the ERK1/2 pathway in esophageal cancer.This study employed the esophageal cancer cell lines (TE5 and KYSE150) as a research model. We performed TRIB3 overexpression, knockdown, and ATF4 interaction analyses. These were combined with molecular biology techniques and functional assays (EdU, colony formation, migration, and invasion). Pharmacological inhibitors of ERK and FASN, alongside oleic acid (OA) rescue, validated the signaling and metabolic pathways.TRIB3 regulates fatty acid metabolism. TRIB3 knockdown suppresses fatty acid biosynthesis, cell growth, and migration. Mechanistically, TRIB3 interacts with ATF4 to activate the MEK/ERK pathway. FASN inhibition reverses TRIB3's oncogenic effects. Conversely, OA rescues the tumor-suppressive phenotypes of TRIB3 knockdown. Inhibition of the MEK/ERK pathway attenuates TRIB3-mediated lipid metabolism and progression.This study identifies TRIB3 as a key metabolic regulator in esophageal cancer. It links stress adaptation to lipogenic reprogramming. Targeting this metabolic vulnerability represents a promising therapeutic strategy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
We evaluated the clinical significance of plasma autoantibodies against cancer stem cell-associated antigens in breast cancer, with diagnostic performance as the primary endpoint and clinicopathological and prognostic relevance as secondary endpoints.In this single-center observational study, autoantibodies against SOX2, survivin, and DNAJB8 were measured using ELISA. The diagnostic performance of anti-DNAJB8 autoantibodies was evaluated in 292 patients with breast cancer and 24 benign controls. Clinicopathological and postoperative analyses were exploratory in a preoperative cohort (175 patients).Only DNAJB8 showed a distinct high-titer subset in the breast cancer group. The primary endpoint was not met, as plasma anti-DNAJB8 autoantibodies showed a non-significant diagnostic performance (AUC, 0.602; 95% CI, 0.488-0.715; P = 0.080). In the preoperative cohort, with six deaths and 11 recurrences, anti-DNAJB8 autoantibody positivity was associated with a worse overall and recurrence-free survival in age-adjusted analyses using Firth's penalized likelihood Cox regression (overall survival: hazard ratio, 10.607; 95% CI, 2.280-61.840; P = 0.003; recurrence-free survival: hazard ratio, 4.329; 95% CI, 1.247-13.082; P = 0.023).The primary diagnostic endpoint was not achieved for plasma anti-DNAJB8 autoantibodies. However, anti-DNAJB8 autoantibody positivity was associated with poorer postoperative outcomes, suggesting a hypothesis-generating prognostic relevance.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd.
TRIB3 is upregulated in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and associates with worse survival, yet targeted therapeutics remain lacking. Calcium phosphate (CaP) nanoparticles offer biocompatible, serum-stable delivery for siRNA therapy. Here, we developed CaP nanoparticles loading siRNA targeting TRIB3 (NPCaP/siTrib3) and evaluated antitumor efficacy and mechanisms in vitro and in vivo.NPCaP/siTrib3 was synthesized via biomineralization, and RNase resistance was verified by PAGE. Mouse KP-1 NSCLC cells were used for transfection, apoptosis (Annexin V/7-AAD), migration (scratch), invasion (Matrigel Transwell), qRT-PCR, and Western blot of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and stemness markers. C57BL/6 subcutaneous tumor models received tail-vein injections for efficacy and biosafety assessment.TRIB3 was significantly upregulated in NSCLC tissues compared with normal lung tissues and was associated with poorer overall survival. NPCaP/siTrib3 formed nanosheets with an average size of approximately 159.4 nm and exhibited a more negative zeta potential than bare CaP, indicating successful siRNA loading. The CaP shell effectively protected siTrib3 from RNase degradation. NPCaP/siTrib3 efficiently silenced TRIB3 protein expression in KP-1 cells, with gene knockdown efficacy comparable to Lipo8000 but with lower cytotoxicity. Functionally, NPCaP/siTrib3 significantly promoted apoptosis and inhibited cell migration and invasion. In vivo, intravenously administered NPCaP/siTrib3, which primarily accumulated in tumors through the enhanced permeability and retention (EPR) effect, markedly suppressed tumor growth without affecting body weight. Mechanistically, NPCaP/siTrib3 reversed EMT by upregulating E-cadherin and downregulating N-cadherin and Snail, and reduced cancer stemness by decreasing the expression of Sox2, Nanog, Pou5f1, Klf4, and c-Myc. Biosafety evaluations demonstrated negligible hemolysis, normal serum biochemistry and hematology, and no histopathological damage in major organs.NPCaP/siTrib3 is an effective and biocompatible siRNA nanoplatform that suppresses NSCLC progression through dual inhibition of EMT and cancer stemness, supporting TRIB3 as a promising therapeutic target.© 2026 Wu et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559155 is a review article
The use of a water-electrolysis electrode with ultra-stable activity under industrial conditions is a crucial factor to guarantee the long-term operation of an electrolyzer. However, most highly active electrodes suffer from the dissolution of active sites in harsh operating environments. Herein, we have synthesized a large-scale bimetallic sulfide nanoarray (NiFeS) supported on Ni mesh via a spray coating-calcining method. NiFeS exhibits excellent electrochemical performance, delivering a current density of 100 mA cm-2 at an overpotential of 375 mV without iR correction, outperforming NiS, FeS and NiFeO counterparts. Meanwhile, the NiFeS electrode achieves 500 mA cm-2 at 2.174 V and 90 °C for water electrolysis and maintains a stable cell voltage at 500 mA cm-2 over 1000 h. Further characterization studies, including Raman and ICP tests, reveal that the sulfide species in NiFeS transform into SOx2- oxyanions during the OER process. The SOx2- oxyanions act as an inhibitor to protect the metal active sites from dissolving, which also prevents the cathode from being polluted, ensuring exceptional catalytic ability for long-term operation.
IntroductionSOX2, a key pluripotency gene, plays a central role in breast cancer stem cell (BCSC) biology, driving tumor aggressiveness. Although SOX2 dysregulation has been widely studied across various cancers, its specific regulatory mechanisms in breast cancer (BC) remain incompletely elucidated. This study examined the regulatory axis of the SOX2 gene and associated molecular mechanisms underlying BCSC maintenance and prognosis.MethodsThis retrospective cross-sectional study analyzed breast tumor tissues and adjacent normal controls collected consecutively from two tertiary hospitals. SOX2 promoter methylation was assessed using methylation-Specific PCR, and expression of SOX2, DNMT3b, TET3, miR-200b-3p, and TGFβ1 was quantified by qPCR.ResultsAberrant methylation of the SOX2 promoter, linked to increased expression, was observed in the BC cohort. Notably, several samples exhibited a poised promoter state, reflecting an epigenetic configuration associated with stemness. Upregulation of DNMT3b in miR-200b-reduced cells was significantly associated with SOX2 promoter methylation, suggesting a feedback loop modulating methylation dynamics. Additionally, a positive association between deregulated TET3 and TGFβ1 highlights a positive feedback loop in the dynamic tumor microenvironment. SOX2 methylation emerged as a strong prognostic marker, characterized by a low hazard ratio and high diagnostic sensitivity. Its combination with DNMT3b improved specificity (SE = 90%, SP = 79%). Reduced TET3 and miR200b expression correlated with poor outcomes, and their integration with SOX2 formed a tri-gene signature that enhanced patient stratification. Correlation analyses revealed coordinated expression among SOX2, TET3, and TGFβ1, supporting their role in methylome regulation.ConclusionThe findings underscore the clinical significance of this axis and its embedded feedback circuits in shaping BC progression and therapeutic response.
Whole-genome sequencing (WGS) projects for rare disease diagnosis typically yield a diagnostic rate of 25-41%, depending on the methods for patient selection and the extent of prior genetic testing. The Scottish Genomes Partnership (SGP) is a collaborative programme using genome sequencing to diagnose rare disease patients with presumed monogenic aetiology in the Scottish NHS. Within SGP, short-read sequencing (SRS) had previously achieved a diagnostic rate of 23% in affected families. To increase diagnostic yield, we applied Oxford Nanopore Technologies (ONT) long-read sequencing (LRS) to a cohort of 24 SGP families (74 individuals) that remained undiagnosed after SRS-based SNV/indel analysis. We also retrospectively reviewed SRS-derived structural variant (SV) calls to assess whether LRS results could have been detected in SRS data. After quality, rarity, panel-based and inheritance-based filtering, 392 candidate SVs were retained across de novo, homozygous recessive, compound heterozygous and X-linked inheritance models, of which 8 overlapped PanelApp diagnostic-grade "green" genes. Pathogenic or likely pathogenic de novo SVs were identified in 3 of 24 families: an AUTS2 inversion, a DLX5/6 locus inversion, and an FN1 deletion. All three SVs were independently confirmed by retrospective SRS re-analysis using SVRare. These findings demonstrate that LRS-based SV analysis, supported by orthogonal SRS re-analysis, can resolve clinically significant SVs in families who remain unsolved after standard rare disease testing.© 2026. The Author(s).
Dengue viruses (DENVs) usually cause a mild febrile illness which might flare up in some patients as dengue haemorrhagic fever (DHF) or dengue shock syndrome. Altered expression of autoimmune markers and development of autoimmune diseases was observed in patients exhibiting prolonged dengue symptoms, suggesting a possible correlation between DENVs and autoimmune diseases. Molecular mimicry of the blood coagulation pathway proteins by DENVs might be a potential factor underlying clinical manifestations of DHF. Inhibition of protein-protein interactions (PPIs) in DENV mimicry proteins and human proteins can potentially treat both DHF and, associated autoimmune diseases. In this study, we have performed a systematic in silico analysis of human proteins interacting with DENV mimicry proteins (HPIDMP) as novel drug targets. Potential inhibitors of the HPIDMP were discerned from the DrugBank database following stringent parameters. The protein-ligand interactions were predicted using molecular docking and evaluated with decoy-based validation, molecular dynamics simulations, and MM-PBSA binding free energy calculations. RAF1 targeting drugs Sorafenib and Regorafenib exhibited the most consistent interaction profile across all computational analyses, followed by the SIRT1-targeting compounds selisistat and resveratrol, which demonstrated moderate but consistent computational support. In contrast, the MYH9-artenimol and HSPE1-phenethyl isothiocyanate systems showed comparatively weaker support. On the basis of our results, we propose Sorafenib and Regorafenib as the most promising candidates for in vitro or clinical studies for treatment of DHF and/or DENV-associated autoimmune diseases, followed by Selisistat and Resveratrol. Thus these DrugBank molecules can be incorporated in clinical studies or in vitro testing for treatment of DHF and/or DENV-associated autoimmune diseases. Also, the methods adopted in this study can guide the repurposing of known drugs to treat other pathogen-associated autoimmune diseases.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s40203-026-00699-0.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) and cognitive impairment (CI) are diseases impacting human health. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI), a critical stage of cognitive impairment, is strongly associated with T1DM relating to energy metabolism. Mitochondria, the intracellular energy factories, implicated in diabetic MCI. Therefore, identifying a mitochondrial related biomarker and investigate its role in diabetic MCI are profound. In this study, based on human blood gene datasets obtained from public database, 4 key mitochondrial factors ACADVL, HSPE1, LYPLAL1 and UQCRH were identified by performing differential analysis, functional enrichment analysis and machine learning. To validate these four factors, T1DM mice exhibiting CI and hippocampal damage were observed, UQCRH (a component of mitochondrial complex III) expression reduction was the most obvious amount these four factors in hippocampus, when it was validated in another related dataset. In order to further confirming the role of UQCRH in diabetic MCI, AAV expressing UQCRH intracerebral injection was performed, cognitive impairment of T1DM mice were attenuated post AAV intracerebral injection. Taken together, this study indicated hippocampal mitochondrial dysfunction was involved in diabetic MCI. UQCRH, could be recognized as a biomarker for diabetic MCI, elevating UQCRH expression further improving mitochondrial function served as a potential treatment for diabetic MCI.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skeletal and synovial joint development involves distinct skeletal stem/progenitor populations. However, in neural crest-derived temporomandibular joint (TMJ), skeletal stem/progenitor lineage dynamics and ossification programs remain poorly defined. Here, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) on mouse mandibular cartilage at embryonic day 16.5 (E16.5), postnatal day 0 (P0), and 13 weeks to construct a high-resolution atlas of skeletal stem/progenitor populations. At embryonic and postnatal stages, the outer perichondrium contained Lgr5+Pthlh+ cells expressing Dlx5, consistent with an intramembranous ossification-associated program. In contrast, a previously uncharacterized Crabp1+ subpopulation within the inner perichondrium expressed Nrg1, Lsamp, Tac1, and Igfbp5, consistent with an early chondrogenic-associated transcriptional state. These results suggest spatially distinct ossification-associated programs and reveal the transcriptional regulation underlying TMJ development. Our findings provide a model for understanding neural crest-derived TMJ skeletal stem/progenitor cell regulation and may inform future studies of TMJ cartilage biology and regeneration strategies within this specialized tissue.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are important regulators of complex traits in pigs and the systematic annotation and functional roles of these genes remain poorly understood. This study aimed to construct a comprehensive porcine lncRNA atlas and explore the regulatory role of lncRNAs in muscle development.We integrated 8,871 strand-specific RNA-seq datasets to identify porcine lncRNAs. Their transcriptional features, tissue specificity, evolutionary conservation, and eQTL-supported regulatory relationships were characterized. Single-cell RNA-seq, Hi-C, H3K27ac ChIP-seq, and population differentiation analyses were further incorporated to investigate candidate lncRNAs involved in muscle development.We identified 50,203 porcine lncRNA genes with stronger tissue specificity and lower expression abundance than protein-coding genes. A subset of lncRNAs showed sequence conservation across mammals. Integration with pigGTEx data identified extensive eQTL-supported lncRNA-mRNA candidate regulatory pairs enriched in active promoter and enhancer chromatin states. Single-cell and multi-omics analyses highlighted PRANCR as a candidate regulator of postnatal muscle growth in Laiwu pigs. A highly differentiated enhancer variant (chr5:g.34155013T>C; Sscrofa11.1) may alter SOX8 binding and regulate PRANCR expression in satellite stem cells.This study provides the most comprehensive porcine lncRNA resource currently available and proposes a potential enhancer-lncRNA regulatory mechanism that contributes to muscle development in pigs.
Boar sperm freezability (SF) is an economically important trait that influences reproductive efficiency and genetic improvement in pigs. However, its genetic basis remains poorly understood. In this study, semen samples from 382 Duroc and 151 Yorkshire boars were evaluated for sperm motility and recovery rate, and all individuals were genotyped using an 80K SNP array. Within-breed GWAS were first conducted, followed by a meta-analysis integrating the GWAS results from both boars. Individuals were classified into GSF and PSF groups based on sperm recovery rate for subsequent selection signature analysis. The results showed that Duroc boars exhibited significantly higher SF than Yorkshire boars. Heritability estimates for SF were moderate, with values of 0.35 in Duroc and 0.30 in Yorkshire. GWAS identified 10 significant SNPs in Duroc and 33 in Yorkshire associated with SF. Meta-analysis further detected 12 significant SNPs, annotated to candidate genes such as CCDC181, PARN, SOX9, and NCKAP5L. Association analysis identified ten representative variants significantly correlated with sperm recovery rate, with variants in PARN and MAP2K6 showing strong additive effects. Selection signature analysis revealed multiple genomic regions under differential selection between GSF and PSF groups, identifying several candidate genes associated with SF. Functional enrichment analysis indicated that these genes are mainly involved in spermatogenesis, flagellar motility, cellular stress response, and cold adaptation pathways. Overall, this study provides novel insights into the genetic architecture of boar SF and identifies potential molecular markers for genetic improvement and functional genomic studies in pigs.
Distal-less homeobox genes Dlx5 and Dlx6 are key regulators of osteoblast differentiation during skeletal development, but their role in postnatal bone remodeling remains poorly understood. To investigate this, we conditionally deleted Dlx5/6 in Osterix-lineage cells after 4 weeks of birth using an inducible Osx-Cre system. Dlx5/6Δ/Δ Osx-Cre and control mice were analyzed in terms of bone architecture (micro-computed tomography), remodeling (histomorphometry), gene expression profiling and single-cell RNA sequencing. Postnatal deletion of Dlx5/6 induced a complex skeletal phenotype characterized by radial bone hypertrophy and altered cortical remodeling. Enhanced periosteal activity was associated with increased Osx expression in periosteal cells, confirmed by BaseScope and immunofluorescence analyses. In parallel, cortical bone became thinner and more porous, while trabecular bone displayed reduced bone formation and thinner trabeculae, despite paradoxical accumulation within the diaphysis. These alterations were associated with increased Osx expression in periosteal and diaphyseal compartments, indicating abnormal spatial regulation of osteolineage cell expansion and bone remodeling. Single-cell transcriptomic analysis in bone-marrow cells identified altered mesenchymal stromal cell populations with dysregulated extracellular matrix and Wnt signaling pathways, including downregulation of the Wnt antagonist Sfrp1, validated in situ by RNAscope. Consistently, osteoblasts derived from Dlx5/6Δ/Δ Osx-Cre displayed impaired terminal differentiation in vitro, with reduced expression of late osteogenic markers and decreased matrix mineralization. Collectively, these findings identify Dlx5/6 as critical regulators of postnatal bone homeostasis that coordinate osteolineage expansion and terminal osteoblast maturation during postnatal bone remodeling.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.
To understand the cellular and spatial composition of conventional ameloblastoma and its alteration after marsupialization treatment.We applied single-cell RNA sequencing and spatial transcriptomics on pre- and post-marsupialization conventional ameloblastoma slices, followed by cluster, trajectory, network analysis, and immunofluorescence validation.We found a continuous cell trajectory from pre-marsupialization epithelium-like cell types to post-marsupialization mesenchyme-like cell types. Comparison with our recently established human embryonic dental cell atlas revealed that epithelium-like cells resembled the most primitive outer enamel progenitors, whereas mesenchyme-like cells did not resemble any embryonic mesenchymal cells, representing a differentiated and abnormal state. Transcription factors DLX5 and TWIST1, together with their target genes, showed profound alterations that paralleled the epithelium-to-mesenchyme transition (EMT). We verified the existence of EMT by double immunofluorescence of two EMT markers FN1 and VIM, and verified the specific expression of KRT15 in pre-marsupialization tissues. Lastly, mesenchyme-derived proteins MMP13 and THBS2 exert feedback regulatory effects on EMT.We constructed the cellular and spatial landscape of conventional ameloblastoma before and after marsupialization. Our findings indicate that the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) process, potentially regulated by DLX5 and MMP13, contributes to the treatment effect of marsupialization.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
PARP inhibitors (PARPi) selectively target cancers with homologous recombination deficiency (HRD), yet emerging evidence suggests that additional determinants beyond BRCA/HRD status modulate PARPi response. Here, by integrating unbiased proteomic profiling with systematic drug-response phenotyping across 11 ovarian cancer cell lines, we identify MAP2K6 as a previously unrecognized regulator of PARP1 activation and an important determinant of PARP inhibitor sensitivity in BRCA-wild-type ovarian cancer. MAP2K6 promotes global PARP1-mediated PARylation and enhances cellular responsiveness to the PARP inhibitor olaparib both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, MAP2K6 can phosphorylate and activate HMGA1, which in turn transcriptionally upregulates NAMPT, resulting in increased intracellular NAD+ levels, and sustained PARP1 activation. Genetic depletion of HMGA1 or NAMPT abolishes MAP2K6-driven PARylation and PARPi sensitization, whereas loss of MAP2K6 reduces NAD+ levels, attenuates PARP1 activation, and confers resistance to PARPi. We propose that MAP2K6 promotes PARP inhibitor sensitivity by coupling metabolic control of NAD+ supply to PARP1 activation, thereby potentially helping extend the therapeutic scope of PARP inhibition beyond homologous recombination-deficient ovarian cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lysine β-hydroxybutyrylation (Kbhb) is an emerging post-translational modification regulated by β-hydroxybutyrate (BHB), a key metabolic intermediate elevated during ketogenic diets. Accumulating evidence indicates that ketogenic diets exert beneficial effects in Parkinson's disease (PD). However, whether BHB-mediated Kbhb modification contributes to these neuroprotective effects remains largely unknown. This study integrates bioinformatics analyses with experimental validation to identify potential Kbhb-related biomarkers associated with PD. Key candidates were further validated using in vivo and in vitro PD models, and downstream regulatory mechanisms were explored through transcriptome sequencing. Through integrative bioinformatics and machine learning analyses, HSPE1 was identified as a central hub gene associated with Kbhb modification in PD. Experimental results demonstrate that Kbhb modification of HSPE1 promotes ubiquitin-mediated degradation, thereby attenuating dopaminergic neuronal apoptosis under PD conditions. Mechanistically, HSPE1 Kbhb modification exerted neuroprotective effects by suppressing the activation of the NF-κB signaling pathway. Our findings reveal HSPE1 as a previously unrecognized target of lysine β-hydroxybutyrylation in PD and uncover a protective role of HSPE1 Kbhb modification in suppressing NF-KB mediated apoptotic signaling.
Zhigancao Decoction (ZGCT), also known as Fumai Decoction, is a classical traditional Chinese medicine formula recorded in Shanghan Lun and has long been used for the treatment of "palpitations" and "irregular pulse," corresponding to arrhythmias in modern medicine. Although ZGCT has shown beneficial effects against cardiac arrhythmias, its absorbed bioactive constituents and the underlying mechanisms involved in ischemic heart failure (IHF)-related ventricular arrhythmias (VAs) remain unclear.This study aimed to characterize the chemical profile of ZGCT and identify its circulating and cardiac constituents using ultra-performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UPLC-Q-TOF-MS), to identify key pathways through transcriptomic analysis, and evaluate the effects of ZGCT on IHF-related VAs in rats while exploring the potential involvement of myocardial fibrosis and TGF-β/Smad signaling.UPLC-Q-TOF-MS was employed to characterize the chemical constituents of ZGCT extract and to identify its absorbed components in rat serum and myocardial tissue after administration, thereby defining its in vivo bioactive basis. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq)-based transcriptomic profiling was then performed on myocardial tissues from the control, model, and ZGCT-treated groups to identify differentially expressed genes, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses to screen candidate signaling pathways underlying ZGCT activity. In addition, a rat model of IHF was established by permanent ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery. Rats were randomly assigned to the control, model, low-, medium-, and high-dose ZGCT, metoprolol, SB-431542(a selective TGF-β receptor type I inhibitor), and SB-431542 plus ZGCT groups. Cardiac function was evaluated by echocardiography; ventricular arrhythmia susceptibility, conduction velocity, and electrical conduction dispersion were assessed by burst pacing and multichannel electrical mapping; infarct size and myocardial fibrosis were determined by 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC), hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), and Masson's trichrome staining; and the expression of TGF-β1, phosphorylated Smad3 (p-Smad3), Smad7, and matrix metalloproteinase 2 (MMP2) was measured by Western blotting and RT-qPCR.UPLC-Q-TOF-MS identified 113 constituents in the ZGCT extract in vitro, of which 80 were detected in serum and 53 were distributed in myocardial tissue after administration. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that ZGCT predominantly regulated the extracellular matrix (ECM)-receptor interaction and TGF-β signaling pathways, with the TGF-β pathway emerging as a putative key target. In IHF rats, ZGCT significantly improved cardiac function and reduced both the incidence and duration of ventricular arrhythmias. Multichannel electrical mapping further demonstrated that ZGCT reversed IHF-induced slowing of conduction velocity and increased conduction dispersion. Mechanistically, ZGCT downregulated the expression of TGF-β1, p-Smad3, and MMP2, while upregulating Smad7. SB-431542 elicited anti-fibrotic and pathway-related molecular changes comparable to those of ZGCT, further supporting a role for TGF-β/Smad signaling in the anti-fibrotic effects of ZGCT.ZGCT reduced ventricular arrhythmia susceptibility and improved conduction abnormalities in IHF rats in association with attenuation of myocardial fibrosis and modulation of transforming growth factor-β/Smad-related signaling. However, these findings were obtained from a single batch of ZGCT, and further multi-batch validation is required to confirm its chemical consistency and pharmacological reproducibility.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
To optimize the extraction-purification process of Dendrobium officinale polysaccharides (DOPs) and characterize the fine structures of two homogeneous fractions (DOP-1, DOP-2), as well as to evaluate their anti-photoaging activity on HFF cells.An integrated process including petroleum ether defatting, cellulase hydrolysis, water extraction-ethanol precipitation, trypsin-Sevag deproteinization, activated carbon decolorization, and dialysis was used. DOP-1 and DOP-2 were separated by DEAE-52 and Sephadex G-100 chromatography. Their structures were analyzed by FT-IR, methylation-GC/MS, NMR, and SEM. Anti-photoaging effects were assessed via CCK-8, SA-β-Gal staining, and qPCR of TGF-β/Smad pathway genes.The optimized process increased crude polysaccharide yield from 30.34% to 35.03% and polysaccharide content from 31.23% to 49.34%. DOP-1 (Mn 989 Da, PDI 1.15) was a linear oligosaccharide composed of →4)-β-D-Manp (72.32%) and →4)-β-D-Glcp (23.78%) in an alternating pattern. DOP-2 (Mn 2970 Da, PDI 1.67) was a branched polysaccharide with a backbone of →6)-α-D-Glcp (58.06%) and branches at →2,6)-Manp and →4,6)-Glcp. Both DOP-1 and DOP-2 (62.5 μg/mL) protected HFF cells from UVA-induced photoaging, upregulated TGF-β1, Smad3, Smad4, and Collagen I, and downregulated Smad7 and MMP-1, with DOP-2 showing dose-dependent effects.The optimized process enables efficient preparation of DOPs. DOP-1 and DOP-2 possess distinct structural features and exert anti-photoaging effects via regulation of the TGF-β/Smad signaling pathway.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Restrictive cardiomyopathy (RCM) is characterized by pronounced cardiac fibrosis, leading to ventricular stiffening and diastolic dysfunction. While cardiomyocyte mutations are known triggers, the mechanisms initiating pro-fibrotic signaling remain elusive. This study investigates the role of cardiomyocyte-derived exosomes and specific tRNA-derived small RNAs (tsRNAs) in this pathogenic intercellular communication. Using a cTnIR193H knock-in mouse model, we observed pronounced cardiac fibrosis prior to the onset of heart failure, without significant cardiomyocyte apoptosis. This primary fibrotic response was mediated by a paracrine mechanism, as conditioned medium from mutant cardiomyocytes was sufficient to activate fibroblasts. Subsequent small RNA sequencing of cardiomyocyte-derived exosomes identified the tRNA-derived fragment 5'tiRNA-GluCTC as a significantly enriched species. Functional studies established this RNA as a critical mediator, demonstrating that its overexpression exacerbated fibrotic responses in vitro and induced fibrotic remodeling in wild-type mice, while its inhibition via a cardiac-targeted AAV sponge attenuated fibroblast activation and alleviated fibrosis in RCM mice. Mechanistically, 5'tiRNA-GluCTC is transferred to fibroblasts, directly targets the 3'UTR of Foxq1 to repress its expression, and consequently activates the Smad3/p-Smad3 signaling cascade. Collectively, these results delineate a 5'tiRNA-GluCTC/Foxq1/Smad3 signaling axis that drives fibrosis in RCM, uncovering a previously uncharacterized signaling cascade with therapeutic potential.Copyright 2026 The Author(s).
Resistance to anti-programmed cell death protein-1 (PD-1) treatment in gastric cancer (GC) is closely associated with an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. However, the role of neutrophils in resistance to anti-PD-1 therapy remains unclear.Single-cell RNA sequencing was performed on tumor samples from patients with advanced GC receiving anti-PD-1 therapy to identify neutrophil subsets associated with neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs). Multilevel experimental validation was conducted using multiomics analysis, flow cytometry, multiplex immunofluorescence, and in vitro co-culture. Therapeutic strategies targeting NETs and CD8+ T-cell exhaustion were evaluated in a mouse model of YTN16 tumors.We identified a NETs-associated neutrophil subset enriched in patients with GC resistant to anti-PD-1 treatment. This subset was marked by CD177, and it exhibited a high potential for NETs release. Peripheral blood NETs levels and CD177+ neutrophil ratios in patients with GC act as markers for evaluating the efficacy of PD-1 inhibitors. Furthermore, transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1), which was highly expressed in GC and spatially colocalized with CD177+ neutrophils, might induce neutrophils to release NETs via the Smad3-NFE2 axis. NETs promoted CD8+ T cell exhaustion by activating the MEK/ERK-c-Fos/JunB axis, as evidenced by increased PD-1/TIM3 expression and reduced interferon-gamma/tumor necrosis factor-alpha secretion. In vivo experiments confirmed that targeted inhibition of NETs formation using DNase I or TGF-β1 inhibitors significantly suppressed tumor growth and CD8+ T cell exhaustion. Notably, the MEK inhibitor trametinib reversed the immunosuppressive microenvironment associated with CD8+ T cell exhaustion and synergistically enhanced the antitumor efficacy with anti-PD-1 therapy.TGF-β1 drives CD177+ neutrophils to release NETs, which induce CD8+ T cell exhaustion via the ERK-c-Fos-JunB pathway, thereby mediating resistance to anti-PD-1 treatment in GC. Furthermore, targeting NETs formation and combining trametinib with PD-1 inhibitors can significantly reverse CD8+ T cell exhaustion, exert synergistic antitumor effects, and offer a potential therapeutic strategy for overcoming resistance to anti-PD-1 therapy in GC.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
An essential uncontrolled process-liver fibrosis-is vital to cirrhosis and liver cancer onset. There are currently no approved antifibrotic drugs in clinical application. Saponins are a class of major bioactive components of Bupleuri radix (Chaihu) that play important roles against liver fibrosis. Glycolysis inhibition may control the activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), serving as an effective anti-fibrotic strategy. However, the mechanism by which saikosaponins exert anti-liver fibrosis effects by regulating glycolysis through HIF-1α is unclear.To explore the mechanism by which Bupleuri radix total saikosaponins (BRTS) inhibit HSC activation and alleviate liver fibrosis.Purified BRTS were obtained by extraction with saturated aqueous n-butanol solution, followed by adsorption and purification with AB-8 macroporous resin. After removing impurities using 40% ethanol, the product was washed with 90% ethanol. LC-MS/MS and HPLC were used to characterize the BRTS components and determine their contents. We used Network pharmacology to predict the possible mechanism underlying BRTS. CCl4 was intraperitoneally injected to create a liver fibrosis rat model, and we added TGF-β1 to LX-2 cells to create a HSC activation model. Haematoxylin and eosin (H&E), Masson, and Sirius Red staining of liver tissue, along with serum and liver biochemical indicator measurement analysed the extent of liver injury and fibrosis. Western blotting, qRT-PCR, immunofluorescence, immunohistochemistry, transcriptomics, and metabolomics practices analysed liver fibrosis- or HSC activation-related protein, gene, and metabolite expression. ELISA kits were used to detect glycolytic activity, SIRT3 deacetylase activity, lactate secretion, and the glucose uptake rate. Moreover, the mechanism by which BRTS improves liver fibrosis was validated using a glycolysis inhibitor, i.e., 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG), 2-methoxyestradiol (2-ME, a kind of HIF-1α inhibitor), dimethyl oxoglutarate (DMOG, a kind of HIF-1α stabilizer), and SIRT3 inhibitor (3-TYP).The overall yield of BRTS was 6.56 ± 0.41%, and the main components were saikosaponin A (176.1 ± 10.5 mg/g) and saikosaponin D (132.7 ± 7.7 mg/g). Network pharmacology and LC-MS analyses revealed that the core anti-liver fibrosis target was HIF-1α. BRTS may show anti-liver fibrosis properties by regulating the HIF-1 signalling pathway, per the KEGG pathway enrichment analysis. Molecular docking suggested that both saikosaponin A and saikosaponin D can stably bind to SIRT3. In vivo, BRTS can improve the symptoms of CCl4-mediated liver fibrosis, alleviate liver injury, reduce collagen fibre content, and decrease collagen deposition, including significantly reduced serum AST and ALT activity, serum LN, HA, PC III, and COL IV levels, and liver lactate levels. BRTS significantly reversed the increased α-SMA, COL1, HIF-1α, and p-SMAD3 protein expression and the decreased SIRT3 protein expression (p<0.05). In addition, BRTS downregulated GLUT1, PKM2, HK2, and LDHA mRNA expression (all glycolytic genes) than the MOD group (p<0.05). The in vitro experimental results revealed that BRTS significantly inhibited LX-2 cell activation caused by TGF-β1, and reduced glucose uptake rates and level of lactate released (p<0.05). BRTS administration raised SIRT3 protein expression and activation, reduced HIF-1α and p-SMAD3 nuclear translocation, downregulated COL1, HIF-1α, α-SMA, and p-SMAD3 protein expression, and reduced glycolytic gene mRNA expression (p<0.05). In LX-2 cells, 2-DG and 2-ME further promoted the suppressive impact of BRTS on glycolysis and activation. Compared with BRTS treatment, DMOG resulted in significant reversal of the suppressive impact of BRTS on glycolysis as well as activation and COL1 and HIF-1α protein expression. In addition, BRTS promoted the deacetylase activity of SIRT3. In LX-2 activated cells where SIRT3 is inhibited, the inhibitory effect of BRTS on HIF-1α and p-SMAD3 protein expression is eliminated.BRTS regulates the SMAD3/HIF-1α signalling axis through SIRT3 to mediate glycolysis in HSCs, which suppresses HSC activation and improves liver fibrosis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42543772 is a review article
This study aimed to investigate the differences in the ameliorative effects and underlying mechanisms of Buyang Huanwu Decoction(BHD) and its different ethanol elution fractions on pulmonary fibrosis(PF). The content of amygdalin, formononetin, kaempferol, ferulic acid and paeoniflorin in the drug-containing sera of BHD and its different fractions were determined using ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem quadrupole mass spectrometry. A rat model of PF was established by intratracheal instillation of bleomycin(BLM). The rats were divided into seven groups: a control group, a BLM group, a prednisone acetate(PA) group, a BHD group, a 30% ethanol elution fraction(Fr30) group, a 50% ethanol elution fraction(Fr50) group, and a 90% ethanol elution fraction(Fr90) group. All treatments were administered continuously for 21 days. The degrees of lung inflammation and fibrosis were observed by HE and Masson staining. The hydroxyproline(HYP) levels in lung tissue were determined using a HYP assay kit. The levels of interleukin-1β(IL-1β), interleukin-6(IL-6), interleukin-10(IL-10), tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), and high mobility group box 1 protein(HMGB1) in lung tissue were determined using ELISA kits. The levels of total superoxide dismutase(T-SOD), malondialdehyde(MDA) and glutathione peroxidase(GSH-PX) in lung tissue were determined using corresponding commercial kits. Immunofluorescence staining and Western blot were used to detect the levels of epithelial-mesenchymal transition(EMT)-related proteins in lung tissue. RT-qPCR and Western blot were employed to determine the mRNA and protein levels of factors associated with the transforming growth factor-β1(TGF-β1)/Sma and Mad-related protein(Smad) pathway in lung tissue. The results showed that amygdalin was detected in the drug-containing sera of all groups, with the highest content in the Fr30 group and the lowest in the Fr90 group. Formononetin and kaempferol were detected in the BHD, Fr50, and Fr90 groups, with the highest content in the Fr50 group and the lowest in the Fr90 group. Ferulic acid was detected in all groups, with the highest content in the BHD group and the lowest in the Fr30 group. Paeoniflorin was only detected in the BHD and Fr30 groups, with similar content. Compared with the BLM group, the levels of HYP, TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β, HMGB1, and MDA decreased in all treatment groups, while the levels of IL-10, T-SOD, and GSH-PX increased. However, there was no statistical significance in the changes of T-SOD level in the Fr30 group and HYP and IL-10 levels in the Fr90 group compared with the BLM group. Immunofluorescence staining showed a marked decrease in the protein expression of α-smooth muscle actin(α-SMA) in the lung tissue of the BHD, Fr30, Fr50, and Fr90 groups. Western blot analysis showed that the expression of epithelial cadherin(E-cadherin) significantly increased, while α-SMA and vimentin protein expressions significantly decreased in the lung tissue of the BHD, Fr30, Fr50, and Fr90 groups. RT-qPCR and Western blot analysis revealed that the mRNA and protein levels of TGF-β1 in the BHD and Fr30 groups significantly decreased, the phosphorylation(p)-Smad3/Smad3 ratio in all treatment groups significantly decreased, and the mRNA and protein levels of Smad7 in the BHD, Fr30 and Fr50 groups significantly increased. In conclusion, BHD and its different ethanol elution fractions may ameliorate BLM-induced PF in rats by inhibiting the TGF-β1/Smad pathway, with the Fr30 and Fr50 fractions showing better ameliorative effects.
This study aims to investigate the effect and mechanism of baicalein in improving alveolar epithelial cell senescence. A cellular model of alveolar epithelial cell senescence induced by transforming growth factor-β1(TGF-β1) was established. Cells were randomly divided into control group, model group, baicalein group, small interfering RNA(siRNA) targeting Smad family member 2(Smad2) group, siRNA targeting Smad3 group, and baicalein + Smad3 plasmid group. Western blot was employed to detect the protein expression level of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1(PAI-1), a marker protein of alveolar epithelial cell senescence. Senescence-associated β-galactosidase(SA-β-gal) staining was used to measure the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells. The results show that baicalein can significantly inhibit the protein expression of PAI-1 in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells and markedly reduce the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. Baicalein can also significantly decrease the phosphorylation levels of Smad2 protein and Smad3 protein in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. Knockdown of Smad2 does not affect the protein expression level of PAI-1 in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells, nor does it alter the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. In contrast, knockdown of Smad3 can significantly downregulate the protein expression level of PAI-1 and reduce the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. Overexpression of Smad3 can notably reverse the inhibitory effects of baicalein on PAI-1 protein expression and the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. In conclusion, baicalein improves alveolar epithelial cell senescence by downregulating the TGF-β1/Smad3 signaling, but this effect might be independent of Smad2 signaling.
Myofibroblasts are the cells responsible for collagen production, leading to tissue fibrosis. Because 20.5% of the total amino acids in collagen are proline, myofibroblasts must acquire a well-developed proline-producing mechanism during their differentiation. However, the detailed mechanism for myofibroblasts to acquire and keep the developed proline biosynthesis machinery remains obscure. Here, we show branched-chain amino acid transaminase 1 (Bcat1) is up-regulated in a substantial subset of Postn-expressing proto-myofibroblast-like fibroblasts, transitional cells en route to fully differentiated myofibroblasts, as well as in myofibroblasts in the fibrotic heart and liver of mice and humans and promotes the proline production. The branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) production by BCAT1 promotes SMAD3 phosphorylation via HDAC5 phosphorylation at Ser488, thereby enhancing SMAD3-dependent transcription of proline biosynthesis-related genes, Aldh18a1, Pycr1, and Eprs, in proto-myofibroblast-like fibroblasts and myofibroblasts. In BCAT1-deficient mice, expression of proline biosynthesis-related genes is significantly attenuated in their hearts after myocardial infarction, resulting in decreased cardiac fibrosis. Moreover, BCAT1 inhibitor treatment of mice with myocardial infarction reduces cardiac fibrosis. Our results identified a BCAT1-mediated pathway that promotes collagen production via proline biosynthesis regulation in proto-myofibroblast-like fibroblasts and myofibroblasts, which may provide a therapeutic target for cardiac fibrosis.
Periodontitis is a long-term inflammatory disease of the gums that damages the tissues and bone supporting the teeth. Recent studies suggest that changes in cellular metabolism may influence immune responses during chronic inflammation; however, the contribution of fumarate-associated transcriptional programs to periodontitis remains unclear. In this study, we integrated bulk transcriptomic data from human periodontal tissues with single-cell RNA sequencing data to identify fumarate-associated genes and cell clusters associated with periodontitis. Our analyses revealed a fumarate-associated immune regulatory signature that was enriched in periodontitis. Three genes, C3, CXCR4, and MEF2C, were consistently increased in diseased tissues and showed similar expression trends in a ligature-induced mouse model of periodontitis. These genes showed transcript-level diagnostic potential and were predominantly expressed in immune cells, including myeloid cells and neutrophils, as well as stromal cells. In addition, computational drug screening and molecular docking highlighted carbenoxolone and a CXCR4 antagonist (USL311) as potential candidates for future study. Overall, this study provides an integrative view of fumarate-associated immunometabolic alterations in periodontitis and identifies candidate transcriptomic markers and therapeutic hypotheses that warrant further experimental validation.Copyright: © 2026 Liu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Pediatric high-grade gliomas (HGGs) exhibit genetic profiles accompanied by anatomical specificities. These features suggest that specific anatomical niches favor the onset and/or progression of these diseases. However, such niche identities remain elusive as existing genetically engineered mouse models fail to recapitulate these anatomical specificities. Herein, we investigate the anatomical specificities of histone H3.1 lysine 27-to-methionine (H3.1K27M) and activating ACVR1 mutations for diffuse intrinsic pontine gliomas (DIPGs)-a major pons-specific pediatric HGG. We describe a murine model where expression of H3.1K27M and activating Acvr1 and Pik3ca mutations (which co-occur with H3.1K27M in human DIPGs) induces rapid gliomagenesis specifically in the pons. We show that gliomagenesis occurs predominantly at the trigeminal root entry zone (TREZ) and requires hyaluronan receptor (HMMR) signaling. Our data demonstrate that anatomical specificities of human HGGs can be accurately recapitulated in mice and identify the TREZ as an anatomical niche that plays a key role in DIPG pathogenesis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510803 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510461 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42509741 is a review article
Fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva (FOP) is a rare genetic disorder characterised by progressive heterotopic ossification of soft tissues due to mutations in the ACVR1 gene, leading to dysregulated bone morphogenetic protein signalling. Over time, recurrent episodes of painful inflammatory soft tissue swellings (flare-ups) lead to progressive ossification and eventual ankylosis of joints, resulting in severe restriction of mobility. Most patients become wheelchair-bound by the third decade and may succumb to complications such as thoracic insufficiency syndrome and cardiorespiratory compromise. Due to its rarity and lack of awareness, FOP is often misdiagnosed, and patients may undergo unnecessary invasive procedures such as biopsies or surgical excisions, which can precipitate rapid disease progression. Early recognition based on clinical and radiological findings is therefore critical to prevent iatrogenic harm. We present a rare case of a six-year-old girl with this condition, emphasising the diagnostic challenges and key imaging findings.Copyright © 2026, Nanda et al.
Decidualization deficiency is a hallmark pathology of unexplained recurrent spontaneous abortion (URSA), but the undefined molecular drivers hinder the development of effective therapies. Hyperoside, a bioactive flavonoid from Hypericum perforatum, exhibits therapeutic potential against URSA, yet its underlying mechanism of action remains unknown. In this study, we employed an integrated multi-omics approach coupled with a multi-dimensional validation framework that spanned URSA patient decidual tissues, in vivo mouse models, and in vitro telomerase-immortalized human endometrial stromal cell (T-hESC) decidualization system, to systematically investigate hyperoside's mechanism in URSA, with a focus on R-loop-driven endometrial stromal cell senescence. We found that hyperoside dose-dependently reduced embryo resorption and rescued decidualization deficiency by preventing stromal cell senescence. Mechanistically, hyperoside effectively alleviated aberrant intracellular R-loop accumulation, thereby suppressing excessive activation of the cyclic GMP-AMP synthase-stimulator of interferon genes (cGAS-STING) pathway which contributes to the initiation of the cellular senescence program. Further target identification and validation experiments confirmed that DExH-box helicase 9 (DHX9) was the functional molecular target of hyperoside, with the Thr419 residue serving as the critical binding site. Functional validation revealed that DHX9 knockdown or introduction of the T419A point mutation markedly attenuated the anti-senescence and pro-decidualization effects of hyperoside. In vivo experiments further confirmed that uterine-specific knockdown of DHX9 reduced hyperoside's protective effects against R-loop accumulation, cGAS-STING pathway activation, and embryo loss. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that hyperoside alleviates stromal cell senescence and decidualization deficiency in URSA through DHX9-dependent resolution of R-loops and subsequent suppression of cGAS-STING-associated senescence signaling. More broadly, this work identifies R-loop-mediated genomic stress as a previously underappreciated contributor to URSA-associated decidual dysfunction and provides a mechanistic basis for the protective effects of hyperoside through DHX9-dependent R-loop homeostasis.© 2026 The Author(s). iMeta published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of iMeta Science.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42492626 is a review article
Dual-specificity protein kinase CLK4 plays a pivotal role in regulating alternative mRNA splicing, DNA repair, and various cellular processes through precise phosphorylation. In this study, we analyzed 3825 global human cellular phosphoproteome studies, identifying 430 qualitative profiles and 55 quantitative differential datasets featuring high-confidence Class-1 phosphosites (localization probability ≥ 75%; A-score ≥ 13). Notably, S136 and S138 emerged as predominant phosphorylation sites outside the kinase domain. These sites showed frequent detection and differential expression in liver, lung, and head and neck cancers, as documented in PhosphositePlus. We identified a high-confidence set of co-regulated phosphoproteins, including SQSTM1, SRRT, RPS6, TP53BP1, TNKS1BP1, THUMPD1, OTUD4, and TCEA1. These proteins link CLK4 to critical pathways, including RNA splicing, autophagy, DNA damage response, and cancer progression. Binary interactors, including SRRM2, Interacts with SPT6 1 (IWS1), RBBP6, ZC3H18, BUD13, and DYRK1A, further connect CLK4 to RNA processing and splicing. Predicted downstream substrates, such as CCNL2, CDK11B, PRDX6, YTHDC1, RBM15, SRRM1, SFSWAP, HNRNPU, and DOCK7, highlight CLK4's broad regulatory scope. Upstream kinases were also predicted for S136 and S138. Site-resolved analyses revealed tumor-specific dysregulation of CLK4 phosphorylation at key residues. Co-occurring phosphosite alterations and nearby somatic mutations suggest disrupted CLK4 regulation in cancer. Overall, this study provides a comprehensive phosphoproteomic resource that maps CLK4's co-regulatory networks, paving the way for mechanistic investigations and targeted cancer therapies.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42478843
Corticosteroids are among the most highly prescribed drugs. Chronic treatment with corticosteroids causes osteopenia, as well as growth failure in children. Our goal was to identify serum biomarkers of prednisone-related perturbations of bone and/or cartilage metabolism associated with growth failure in children. We utilized longitudinal serum samples from a double-blind, placebo- and prednisone-controlled trial of vamorolone in 4 to < 7 years children with Duchenne muscular dystrophy assayed by proteomic methods. Vamorolone is a recently approved bone-sparing corticosteroid that has been shown to have similar efficacy as prednisone but does not cause growth failure. The study included a 24-week Period 1 (placebo, prednisone [0.75 mg/kg/day], vamorolone [6 mg/kg/day]), and a 24-week Period 2 where placebo and vamorolone groups crossed over to vamorolone. Clinical laboratory measures of ALP, osteocalcin, P1NP, and CTX1 showed significant reductions with prednisone, but were unchanged by vamorolone treatment or placebo. Proteomics studies of serum proteins reduced by prednisone, but not vamorolone or placebo, identified 10 proteins where mutations in the corresponding genes are known to cause genetic disorders of cartilage and/or bone (collagens [COL2A1, Chondrocalcin, COL6A1, COL9A1, COL10A1, COL11A2], aggrecan core protein [ACAN], biglycan [BGN], osteopetrosis-associated transmembrane protein 1 [OSTM1], and noggin [NOG]). On transitioning from prednisone to vamorolone, all 10 biomarkers returned to baseline levels. Non-human (animal) studies have shown that traditional corticosteroids cause apoptosis of terminal hypertrophic chondrocytes associated with growth failure. Our clinical trial studies suggest that the 10 novel, corticosteroid-related biomarkers likely reflect the induction of apoptosis in terminal hypertrophic chondrocytes and osteoblasts by traditional corticosteroids. Vamorolone may spare chondrocytes and osteoblasts from this apoptosis, consistent with maintenance of normal growth in vamorolone-treated children.Trial registration The clinical trial registration (clinicaltrials.gov) is NCT03439670 ( https://www.clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03439670 ).© 2026. The Author(s).
Non-syndromic cleft palate only (NSCPO) is a distinct clinical and etiological entity within the spectrum of orofacial clefts. While genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified numerous risk loci for nonsyndromic cleft lip with or without cleft palate (NSCL/P), the genetic architecture of NSCPO remains less understood, particularly in the Japanese population. This study aimed to investigate the association of three candidate genes, VAX1, MAFB, and NOG, with NSCPO risk. A case-control study was carried out involving 65 Japanese NSCPO patients and 119 ethnically matched healthy controls. Three single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), rs7078160 (VAX1), rs13041247 (MAFB), and rs227731 (NOG), were selected based on previous GWAS and minor allele frequency. Statistical associations were evaluated using chi-squared or Fisher's exact tests. The VAX1 rs7078160 polymorphism showed a significant association with NSCPO under a recessive model (OR = 2.10, 95% CI = 1.05-4.22, p = 0.034), with the AA genotype showing a higher risk. No significant associations were found for MAFB rs13041247 or NOG rs227731 (p > 0.05). Our findings identify VAX1 rs7078160 as a potential risk factor for NSCPO in the Japanese population. These results show the need for larger studies to further explain the molecular pathways of NSCPO.© 2026 Japanese Teratology Society.
Indole-3-propionic acid (IPA) is documented to improve the effectiveness of tumor immunotherapy via regulating anti-tumor immunity. However, the impacts of IPA in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients undergoing sintilimab combined with bevacizumab (SCB) treatment remain unknown. This study investigated the effects and underlying mechanisms of IPA in SCB-treated HCC. Serum, tumor tissue, fecal and lymph node tissue samples were collected from HCC patients with or without a response to SCB therapy. Humanized orthotopic and subcutaneous HCC NOG mouse models were established. IPA-treated mouse dendritic cells (DCs) were co-cultured with mouse CD8+ T-cells, which were subsequently co-cultured with Hepa1-6 cells. IPA levels were elevated in the serum, tumor tissues, and feces of responders, and serum IPA levels were positively correlated with the proportion of IFN-γ+CD8+ T cells in tumor tissues as well asac-H3K27 and IL-12A levels in lymph node DCs. IPA amplified the suppressive impact of SCB on tumor growth in HCC mice. Moreover, IPA increased ac-H3K27 and IL-12A levels in DCs and upregulated effector CD8+ T-cell immunity in HCC mice. Administration of a CD8-neutralizing antibody and injection of shIL-12A-transfected DCs weakened IPA-mediated inhibition of HCC in vivo. Furthermore, the ac-H3K27 inhibitor A-485 suppressed IL-12A expression and effector CD8+ T-cell immunity induced by IPA, thereby promoting the proliferation, invasion, and migration of Hepa1-6 cells in vitro. These findings demonstrate that IPA enhances the effect of SCB-treated HCC by upregulating H3K27 acetylation to promote IL-12A expression in DCs, thereby potentiating CD8+ T-cell immunity, which provides a basis for its potential use as a clinical adjuvant therapy.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
Gastric cancer (GC) is a prevalent malignancy worldwide with high morbidity and mortality. Its insidious onset and lack of sensitive early biomarkers impede routine screening, so most patients present advanced or metastatic disease at first diagnosis, leading to poor prognosis and scarce curative options. Surgery, chemotherapy and targeted therapy serve as standard GC treatments, however their efficacy is restricted by metastasis, adverse reactions and drug resistance, which drives the rapid development of immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI)-based immunotherapy. Although monoclonal antibodies targeting programmed cell death protein 1/programmed cell death 1 ligand 1 (PD-1/PD-L1) resulted in significant survival benefits for GC patients, some patients exhibited an ineffective response. Our previous study has shown that Weitiao No. 3 (WD-3) enhanced the efficacy of anti-PD-1 immunotherapy by regulating intestinal flora in gastric cancer (GC) mice, in this study, huPBMC-NOG-dKO mice and MGC803 cells were used for in vivo and in vitro functional validation to explore the regulatory mechanism of WD-3 in GC immunotherapy. 16 S rRNA sequencing analysis of mouse fecal samples demonstrated that WD-3 significantly enriched the intestinal abundance of Lachnospiraceae and Ruminococcaceae in GC model mice. Targeted serum metabolomics further verified that WD-3 markedly elevated serum isobutyric acid level in GC mice. Combined with HE staining and tumor growth monitoring, both the intestinal flora mixture consisting of Lachnospiraceae and Ruminococcaceae and isobutyric acid prominently enhanced the anti-tumor efficacy of PD-L1 inhibitors in GC mice. Mechanistically, RNA sequencing and qRT-PCR assays identified ACOX2 as the most significantly up-regulated gene in isobutyric acid-treated MGC803 cells. Functional experiments using CCK-8 assay and flow cytometry revealed that isobutyric acid inhibited the viability and induced apoptosis of MGC803 cells, and such phenotypic changes were effectively rescued by ACOX2 knockdown. Furthermore, results from the CytoTox 96 cytotoxicity assay and ELISA revealed that combined treatment with isobutyric acid and PD-L1 inhibitor elevated the levels of LDH, IL-2, TNF-α, IFN-γ, Perforin 1 and GzmB, while suppressing IL-8, PD-1 and TIM-3 expression in CD8⁺ T cells co-cultured with MGC803 cells. Notably, all these regulatory effects were abrogated when MGC803 cells were transfected with si-ACOX2. These results suggested that WD-3 modulated intestinal flora to elevate isobutyric acid level, thereby enhancing the inhibitory effect of PD-L1 inhibitor on tumor growth and boosting the anti-tumor activity of CD8⁺ T cells by up-regulating ACOX2 expression in GC. These findings may provide novel targets for improving anti-PD-L1 therapy against GC.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13205-026-04974-x.© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Gastric cancer (GC) ranks as the fifth most prevalent malignancy globally. Emerging evidence implicates gut microbiome as a key modulator of anti-tumor immunity and immunotherapy response. Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) presents a promising yet underexplored avenue for microbiome modulation.16S rDNA sequencing of fecal samples was used to detect changes of gut microbiota in advanced GC patients. GC models were established in huPBMC-NOG-dKO mice after fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) to investigate the potential synergy between Number 3 Prescription (WD-3) and anti-PD-L1 monoclonal antibody (mAb) in treatment of non-responders.In this study, WD-3 combined with αPD-L1 showed additive benefit after the FMT of non-responders in the humanized mouse model model. WD-3 combination therapy correlated with reduced proportion of Treg cell infiltration in tumors. WD-3 combination was also associated with increased species richness and improved gut microbiota community structure compared to αPD-L1 alone, with increased relative abundances of Enterobacteriaceae and Lachnospiraceae.Our data provide correlative evidence that WD-3 supplementation combined with αPD-L1 treatment may attenuate GC progress in the FMT mouse model, indicating association with the modulation of gut microbiota. These findings aim to provide treatment strategies for the clinical treatment of advanced GC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
Tumor masses often exhibit heterogeneity, including escape variant clones that lack antigen-presenting machinery and/or tumor antigens, which poses a major challenge to immunotherapy. Ferroptosis, a form of regulated cell death driven by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation, has been shown to effectively induce cell death in various tumor cells. Recent studies have reported that IFN-γ suppresses the expression of System Xc-, thereby enhancing the induction of ferroptosis. Based on this, we hypothesized that combining immunotherapy with ferroptosis inducers could enhance antitumor effects against both antigen-positive and antigen-negative tumor cells. We found that combining RSL3, a ferroptosis inducer, with MART-1-specific TCR-T cells eradicates a heterogeneous tumor model consisting of human melanoma cells and their β2 microglobulin knockout counterparts. In NOG mice, this combination therapy demonstrates a significant antitumor effect against tumors with heterogeneity. These findings suggest that integrating ferroptosis inducers with immunotherapy could overcome the limitations imposed by escape variant tumor clones, offering a promising strategy for cancer treatment.
Understanding how genetic variants influence disease risk through molecular mechanisms remains a central challenge in complex disease genetics. Nonsyndromic orofacial clefts (OFCs) exemplify this challenge, with most risk loci residing in non-coding regions. We hypothesized that common genetic variants influence OFC risk by modulating DNA methylation at regulatory elements through methylation quantitative trait loci (meQTLs). We analyzed 10 OFC-associated SNPs against genome-wide DNA methylation profiles in 409 cases and 456 controls, identifying 23 potential meQTLs. Findings were validated using 358 cleft-discordant sibling pairs with MethyLight assays. We performed formal mediation analysis, genotype-tissue interaction and cross-referenced with the mQTL Database to assess developmental timing. Nine meQTLs were validated, including rs987525 (8q24)-cg16561172 (MYC) (P = 9.6 × 10⁻⁶), which mapped to a mesendoderm-active enhancer upstream of MYC. Genotype × tissue interaction confirmed tissue-specificity (P = 1.00 × 10- 3), with stronger effects in oral-derived tissue (saliva). Additional validated SNP-CpG associations involved MAFB-PLCG1, NOG-PPM1E, FOXE1-FRZB, and SPRY2-LGR4. While effect sizes correlated between tissues (r = 0.81), formal mediation analysis indicated individual CpG sites do not fully mediate SNP-phenotype relationships, suggesting coordinated epigenetic mechanisms. Most associations showed peak effects during childhood, while 8q24 showed unique adult-specific patterns. We identified genetic variants influencing methylation at craniofacial regulatory elements, and provided a mechanistic link for a major risk locus, 8q24, with tissue-specific effects in saliva. While individual CpG sites did not fully mediate the genetic risk, our findings identified specific regulatory regions where coordinated epigenetic changes may contribute to OFC susceptibility.© 2026. The Author(s).
The dermal papilla (DP) is essential to hair follicle development and regeneration. Isolation of human DPs still largely depends on manual microdissection and human DP cells (DPCs) lose their intrinsic properties in vitro. Establishing a culture condition that maintains the biological properties of DPCs allows for identification of cell surface markers that enable cell sorting of living human DPCs. A new DPC culture condition was developed using the combination of a WNT activator, CHIR99021, and recombinant FGF9 (CH + F9). Global gene expression profiling and bioinformatic analyses of DPCs grown under this condition were conducted to identify DPC surface markers enabling live DPC isolation. Compared to a conventional culture condition, CH + F9 increased the expression of the representative DPC biomarkers WNT5A, LEF1 and BMP4 by 3.4-, 3.8- and 60.5-fold (p < 0.01) and better maintained their expression levels after long-term serial passaging. Aggregated CH + F9-treated DPCs unevenly upregulated DP biomarkers further, suggesting that highly potent DPCs can be enriched using a marker for such cells. Bioinformatics analysis of CH + F9-treated and control DPCs identified cell marker candidates, including roundabout guidance receptor 2 (ROBO2). Importantly, ROBO2+ DPCs expressing the representative DP biomarkers WNT5A, VCAN, NOG were successfully sorted from mixed cell suspensions of keratinocytes, fibroblasts and DPCs mimicking enzymatically dissociated human skin. These findings suggest that the new culture condition and cell surface marker for human DPCs established in this study provide useful tools for drug discovery and regenerative medicine to address hair loss diseases.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Multiple myeloma (MM) is an incurable malignancy of bone marrow plasma cells. Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) are the predominant immune cells in the bone marrow microenvironment of MM and play important roles in MM. The effect of RBMS1 on MM has not yet been reported. This study aimed to investigate the function of RBMS1 in MM. Through the analysis of GSE datasets, we identified RBMS1 as a potential pathogenic factor in MM. We further investigated the effects of RBMS1 on the proliferation of MM cells (RPMI8226, MM1S, and KMS11) and its regulation of TAM polarization. An animal model was established by intravenous injection of MM cells into 6-week-old male NOG mice. Bioinformatics analyses, including RRA, WGCNA, and GO enrichment, screened for potential pathogenic genes in MM. Kaplan - Meier survival identified RBMS1 as a prognostic marker associated with poor outcomes in MM. Functionally, RBMS1 enhanced MM cell proliferation, colony formation, and cell cycle. Moreover, RBMS1 promoted M2 polarization of macrophages, as evidenced by elevated levels of M2 macrophage markers, as well as increased CCL2 secretion. Consistently, in a male NOD/Shi-scid IL-2 Rγnull mouse xenograft model, RBMS1 accelerated tumor growth and enhanced M2 macrophage polarization. Mechanistically, RBMS1 bound to the 3'UTR of PDPK1 mRNA, enhancing its stability and activating the pro-tumorigenic β-catenin signaling pathway, thereby promoting tumor growth. Collectively, this study is the first to report the functional role of RBMS1 in MM and highlights the importance of the RBMS1/PDPK1/β-catenin signaling axis in MM, providing new insights for basic research on MM.
Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA), a malignancy arising from biliary epithelial cells, features a tumor microenvironment (TME) characterized by metabolic dysregulation and immunosuppression. Although diverse metabolic aberrations have been observed, the dominant metabolic driver remains unclear. Therefore, the study aims to elucidate the molecular connections between metabolic reprogramming and immune evasion, and to provide the basis for developing TME-targeted therapies.First, untargeted metabolomics was performed to identify key metabolite classes involved in CCA progression. We subsequently used next-generation sequencing combined with database analysis to identify the key genes involved in tumor fatty acid metabolism. Metabolomics, proteomics and metabolic phenotyping experiments were subsequently performed to investigate this metabolic process. Tumor malignancy was evaluated using a range of in vitro and in vivo models. Single-cell RNA sequencing, Olink proteomics, flow cytometry and multiplex immunohistochemistry were performed to analyze the changes in the TME. Finally, we used humanized NOG mice to evaluate the efficacy of the combination therapy.Integrated multi-omics analysis revealed that long-chain unsaturated fatty acids (LCUFAs) were enriched in CCA tissues and closely associated with tumor progression. Ubiquitin-specific peptidase 1 (USP1) was upregulated in CCA tissues, driving dynamic lipid metabolic reprogramming and was associated with poor prognosis. Mechanistically, USP1 orchestrated LCUFAs accumulation through coordinating the enhancement of lipophagy and lipogenesis, establishing a systems-level metabolic regulatory network. Tumor-secreted LCUFAs were preferentially internalized by tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) through FABP5, thereby suppressing cytotoxic T cells activity. Additionally, TAMs upregulated USP1 in CCA cells, forming a positive feedback loop that perpetuates the metabolic-immune crosstalk.In summary, based on multi-omics analysis, this study establishes a systemic mechanism that links tumor lipid metabolism, immune suppression, and therapeutic response in CCA. Targeting the USP1-mediated metabolic-immune axis not only significantly suppresses tumor progression but also enhances the efficacy of immunotherapy. These findings construct a conceptual framework that integrates metabolic reprogramming, immune evasion, and treatment sensitivity, thereby establishing USP1 as a precision therapeutic target with broad biological and clinical importance for patients with CCA.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Pancreatic cancer (PC) is known to be a highly fatal malignancy, and elucidating new molecular mechanisms is of great importance. In this study, we investigated NECTIN4 (PVRL4), which is associated with poor prognosis, via bioinformatics approach. We used following tools and datasets: For differential gene expression analysis, TCGA TARGET GTEx study on UCSC Xena, GSE183795, GSE71729 and GSE196009 GEO datasets; for associations with clinicopathological and promoter methylation features, UALCAN; for correlations with overall survival (OS), disease-free survival (DFS) gene chip database, and for correlations with OS and relapse-free survival (RFS) RNAseq database in the Kaplan-Meier (KM) plotter; for correlations with OS and Progression-Free Interval (PFI), DoSurvive; for immune infiltration correlations, TIMER3; for expression changes in hotspot mutations, GEPIA 3; for potentially related pathways, diseases, and processes, the Gscore online tool; for gene alterations detections, cBioPortal; and identifying potential targeting miRNAs, miRDB, TargetScanHuman 8.0, ENCORI, and DoSurvive. NECTIN4 (PVRL4) is upregulated in primary pancreatic adenocarcinoma in TCGA TARGET GTEx study (log2FC=2.015633, adj.P.Val=4.62E-21) and in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas in GSE183795 (log2FC=0.726, adj.P.Val=10-16.895) GSE196009 (log2FC=2.807, adj.P.Val=10-3.855) GSE71729 (log2FC= 1.227, adj.P.Val=10-10.318) datasets, and may be associated with unfavorable OS (p = 3.63E-02) and PFI (p = 8.09E-03) independent of age at diagnosis, sex, and stage in DoSurvive. In KM plotter RNA seq database, increased NECTIN4 (PVRL4) expression was statistically significantly associated only with shortened OS (p = 0.008). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) expressions are higher in the following traits than in others: In Asians compared to normals (p = 4.949700E-02) and Caucasian (p = 4.480000E-03); in chronic pancreatitis patients from normals (p=3.456300E-02); in grade 2 (p = 2.420600E-04) and grade 3 (p = 1.875500E-03) from grade 1; in TP53 mutants from nonmutants (p = 7.6379999999987E-05). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) correlates positively or negatively with many immune cell types, some of which are also associated with OS. NECTIN4 is upregulated in KRAS (log2FC=1.78, p = 1.05E-17), TP53 (log2FC=0.959, p = 1.22E-05), SMAD4 (log2FC=1.02, p = 0.000111), CDKN2A (log2FC=0.668, p = 0.0144), and RNF43 (log2FC=0.917, p = 0.0393) mutant samples. NECTIN4 (PVRL4) is associated with many pathways, processes, and diseases these may be related to PC. Six patients have amplification, and one patient has a splice mutation. hsa-miR-329-3p and hsa-miR-5586-5p may be potential negative regulatory miRNAs of NECTIN4 (PVRL4). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) may be associated with many pathways awaiting experimental illumination in PC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Motivated by the rising incidence of cancers at younger ages, this study compares tumor genomic alterations between adolescents and young adults (AYAs; 18-39 years) and non-AYAs (40 years and older) and explores the relationship with continuous age in patients with relapsed/refractory ovarian, breast, and colorectal cancers accrued to the NCI-MATCH trial.Tumor genomic profiles generated by a next-generation sequencing 143-gene panel (NCI-MATCH assay, v2) were analyzed for association with age (AYA/total: 21/455 ovarian, 27/576 breast, 43/759 colorectal cancers). For each gene, AYA and non-AYA DNA alteration proportions were compared (Fisher exact test) and alteration association with continuous age (logistic regression) was evaluated (false discovery rate‑adjusted P value <.1 statistically significant). For colorectal cancer, sex-stratified analysis was also performed.No significant AYA versus non-AYA differences were observed in the prevalence of gene mutations (single nucleotide variant [SNV]/indel). A significant association of gene amplification with AYAs (odds ratio [OR], 95% CI) was CCND1 (0.2, 0.1-0.4), favoring AYAs in breast cancer. Examining age as a continuous variable, significant associations of gene mutations (SNV/indel) with older age, expressed as 5-year OR (OR [95% CI]), were observed: TP53 (1.3 [1.1 to 1.4]), ovarian cancer; CDH1 (1.4 [1.2 to 1.6]) and PIK3CA (1.1 [1.1 to 1.2]), breast cancer; and BRAF (1.4 [1.2 to 1.7]), female colorectal cancer. Associations with younger age included SMAD4 (0.8 [0.7 to 0.9]), male colorectal cancer. Significant associations of gene amplification with age (continuous) were as follows: CCNE1 (1.3 [1.1 to 1.6]), older ovarian cancer, and CCND1 (0.8 [0.8 to 0.9]), younger breast cancer.Comparing AYAs with non-AYAs among patients having relapsed/refractory disease, no significant differences in SNV/indel prevalence were observed, but CCND1 amplifications were more prevalent in AYA breast cancer. For several genes, DNA alterations were associated with continuous age and may depend on sex in colorectal cancer.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42558047
Over the decades, shifts in human lifestyle have led to alterations in dietary habits. The consumption of diets low in fiber and high in fat and sugar results in the production of carcinogenic metabolites during digestion. The food we consume undergoes a complex series of processes involving digestion and excretion, engaging various internal organs within the human body. The DNA and MiRNA present in food are crucial for sustaining human health. Damage to human organs can lead to the development of cancer cells. Among various cancers, Colorectal Cancer (CRC) is the 3rd most common cancer that contributes to the increase in the mortality rate worldwide.One of the better ways for early CRC diagnosis is through Genomic Profiling. Frequent mutations in the genes APC, TP53, KRAS, PIK3CA, and SMAD4 are observed in the collected samples, contributing to CRC. An effort has been made in the proposed work to improve classification and prediction by using a deep ensemble learning approach based on a self-attention-based stacked bidirectional LSTM, optimized with the Parallel-Whale Optimization Algorithm (WOA) for global convergence, following a feature selection process. Furthermore, the survival analysis of CRC patients is performed using the DeepSurv technique to assess treatment effectiveness and patient care.The performance of the proposed model is evaluated using various metrics for stage-based colorectal cancer prediction, and a comparative analysis is conducted to validate against benchmarking techniques, resulting in improved classification and prediction accuracy.This study may help physicians detect CRC earlier and improve patient management.Copyright © 2026 Supriya and Anitha.
Aortic dissection (AD) is a life-threatening cardiovascular disease with exceedingly high mortality, particularly during the acute phase. Ubiquitination modification is implicated in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular diseases through diverse biological processes. However, the role of TRIM9, an E3 ubiquitin ligase, in AD remains unexplored. In this study, the expression profiles of TRIM9 and SMAD4 were analyzed using clinical samples, as well as Angiotensin II (Ang II)-induced mouse and human aortic endothelial cell (HAEC) models. Endothelial barrier function in AD was assessed through CCK-8 assays, vascular permeability measurements, immunofluorescence staining, hematoxylin-eosin and Verhoeff's van Gieson staining, and Western blot analysis. The underlying molecular mechanisms were elucidated using quantitative real-time PCR, immunoprecipitation (IP), co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). TRIM9 was markedly overexpressed, whereas SMAD4 was significantly downregulated in AD. Knockdown of TRIM9 attenuated endothelial permeability, preserved the endothelial barrier integrity, and inhibited pyroptosis both in vivo and in vitro. Mechanistically, TRIM9 promoted the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of SMAD4, thereby exacerbating AD progression. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that elevated TRIM9 expression aggravates AD progression through SMAD4 destabilization, offering novel therapeutic insights for AD management.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide and is characterized by an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME). While adaptive immunity contributes to tumor control, growing evidence underscores the role of innate lymphocytes, particularly natural killer (NK) cells, in early antitumor surveillance. However, tumor-infiltrating NK cells often exhibit defective maturation and impaired effector functions, whereas the signals regulating NK cell differentiation and activity in CRC remain poorly defined. Interleukin-27 (IL-27) has emerged as a regulator of antitumor immunity, yet its role in modulating NK cell responses in intestinal tumors is largely unexplored.We employed an orthotopic transplantation model of genetically engineered colorectal tumor organoids Apc-/-KrasG12D/+Trp53R172H/-Smad4-/- (AKPS) to investigate NK cell heterogeneity, maturation, and function during CRC progression. Tumor-infiltrating innate lymphocytes were analyzed using single-cell RNA sequencing, flow cytometry, immunofluorescence, and functional assays. In vitro co-culture systems and in vivo IL-27 blockade were used to assess the impact of tumor-derived IL-27 on NK cell transcriptional programs and effector activity.Single-cell transcriptomic profiling revealed marked heterogeneity among tumor-infiltrating NK cells, identifying subsets with different maturation states and functional capacities. Among innate lymphocytes, AKPS tumors were dominated by NK cells displaying reduced activating receptors and diminished cytotoxic and cytokine-producing potential. Phenotypic and adoptive transfer analyses demonstrated that the TME favors persistence of immature CD27+ NK cell subsets while limiting differentiated NK cells. Mechanistically, tumor-derived IL-27 emerged as a critical regulator sustaining NK cell infiltration and activation; IL-27 blockade reduced NK cell accumulation, interferon-γ production, and immature subset frequency. The clinical relevance of these findings was supported by analysis of human CRC single-cell datasets, which revealed elevated IL-27 signaling in intratumoral NK cells, as well as by the ability of patient-derived organoids to enhance NK-cell cytotoxicity, which was reduced by IL-27 blockade.Our study identifies IL-27 as a critical modulator of NK cell differentiation and function in CRC, highlighting its role in sustaining NK cell-mediated immune surveillance within the tumor microenvironment. These findings provide mechanistic insight into NK cell dysfunction in CRC and suggest IL-27 signaling as a promising therapeutic target to restore innate antitumor immunity.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Background: Comprehensive genomic profiling (CGP) is increasingly incorporated into the management of biliary tract tumors (BTTs); however, single-center real-world data integrating clinical utility and site-specific genomic landscape remain limited. Methods: This retrospective single-center observational study included 91 patients with BTTs who underwent CGP. The primary endpoints were the rates of potentially actionable genomic alterations, expert panel-based therapeutic options, and implementation of genomically matched therapy. Secondary endpoints included the distribution of recurrent and clinically relevant genomic alterations according to the primary tumor site. Results: The cohort included 46 patients with intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (iCCA), 19 with extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (eCCA), 24 with gallbladder cancer (GBC), and 2 with ampullary tumors. CGP was successfully performed in all 91 patients. Reportable genomic alterations were detected in 88 patients (96.7%), whereas no reportable alteration was detected in three patients (3.3%). The most frequently altered genes were TP53 (51/91, 56.0%), KRAS (21/91, 23.1%), CDKN2A (18/91, 19.8%), SMAD4 (14/91, 15.4%), and ARID1A/PBRM1 (12/91, 13.2%). Potentially actionable genomic alterations were identified in 21 patients (23.1%). Expert panel-based therapeutic options were identified in 15 patients (16.5%), and genomically matched therapy was introduced in 7 patients (7.7%). Matched therapy was introduced the most frequently in iCCA (6/46, 13%), followed by GBC (1/24, 4.2%), whereas no patient with eCCA or ampullary tumor received matched therapy. Conclusions: CGP revealed a heterogeneous genomic landscape across BTT subtypes and provided clinically actionable information in a limited but meaningful subset of patients. The practical utility of CGP was the greatest in selected molecular subsets, particularly iCCA.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511877 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42530719 is a review article
Mindbomb1 (MIB1), an E3 ubiquitin ligase required for NOTCH activation, has been identified as a strongly selective cancer dependency in genome-wide loss-of-function screens in over 1000 cancer cell lines. However, MIB1-correlating dependencies in these screens unexpectedly linked MIB1 not to Notch but rather to the family of Transforming Growth Factor-β (TGF-β) and Bone Morphogenic Protein (BMP) signaling molecules. Here, using genetic and pharmacologic methods, we show that MIB1 loss phenocopies BMP tumor suppressive function. MIB1-dependent cancer cell lines were sensitive to BMP ligands, and MIB1 loss selectively enhanced BMP signaling, as evidenced by SMAD1/5/9 phosphorylation and transcriptional responses that correlated with increased BMP receptor protein levels. Growth inhibition and enhanced signaling were both reversed by inhibitors of BMP type 1 receptors, demonstrating that these MIB1 effects directly reflect a function for MIB1 as a negative regulator of BMP signaling. Unlike wild-type MIB1, re-expression of RING-domain-deleted MIB1 failed to rescue growth inhibition in MIB1-depleted cells, suggesting that negative regulation depends on E3 ligase activity. Supporting this regulatory role, we found that MIB1 and the BMP type II receptor BMPR2 physically associate in both cancer and endothelial cells. By revealing this previously unknown role for MIB1 as a Notch-independent negative regulator of BMP signaling, our study expands the significance of MIB1 in cancer biology, with implications for targeting BMP signaling in cancer and other diseases.
Folliculogenesis is a complex process essential to female fertility, characterized by multifaceted communication between oocytes and granulosa cells (GCs). While transcriptional regulation during folliculogenesis has been extensively studied, the proteomic landscape remains largely unexplored. Here, we profiled both the proteomic and transcriptomic landscapes of single oocytes and their surrounding mini-bulk GCs across four consecutive stages, from secondary to preovulatory follicles. Integrated dual-omics analysis provided a high-resolution characterization of cell type-specific transcriptional and proteomic changes. Proteomic profiling revealed coordinated metabolic programs, in which oocytes shift toward lipid storage while GCs enhance energy production and steroidogenic metabolism to support oocyte maturation. These metabolic changes in oocytes were accompanied by dynamic remodeling of mitochondrial organization. In addition, we identified novel transcription factors involved in regulating folliculogenesis, as well as a SATB1-centered regulatory network that may reflect preparatory chromatin remodeling preceding zygotic genome activation. Furthermore, GDF9-BMPR2 signaling progressively increased from the secondary stage to the preovulatory stage, indicating strengthened intercellular communication between oocytes and GCs. Together, these findings provide mechanistic insights into oocyte development and follicle growth, with potential implications for novel fertility treatments and diagnostic strategies.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press and Science Press on behalf of the Beijing Institute of Genomics, Chinese Academy of Sciences / China National Center for Bioinformation and Genetics Society of China.
Primary knee osteoarthritis (PKOA) is a common degenerative joint disease lacking effective disease-modifying therapies. Identifying circulating proteins associated with PKOA may provide clues for therapeutic target discovery.A two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) study was conducted using protein quantitative trait locus data from deCODE Genetics, including 4,907 plasma proteins measured in 35,559 individuals, and PKOA genetic association data from the FinnGen study, comprising 18,563 cases and 363,345 controls. Single nucleotide polymorphisms were selected as instrumental variables, and sensitivity analyses were performed to assess the validity and robustness of the MR estimates. Bonferroni correction and the Benjamini- Hochberg procedure were applied for multiple testing correction. Protein-protein interaction, drug-gene interaction, and functional enrichment analyses were performed for prioritized proteins. Western blotting and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay were used to provide preliminary biological support for MR-prioritized proteins.Two plasma proteins showed genetic associations with PKOA susceptibility. Genetically predicted higher levels of thioredoxin domain-containing protein 12 (TXNDC12) were associated with an increased risk of PKOA (OR = 1.38, 95%CI: 1.27-1.50, P = 9.33 × 10-15), whereas growth/differentiation factor 2 (GDF2) was associated with a reduced risk (OR = 0.93, 95%: CI; 0.89-0.98, P = 4.17 × 10-2). After multiple testing correction, TXNDC12 remained significant after Bonferroni and false discovery rate (FDR) correction, while GDF2 met the FDR threshold only and should therefore be considered a hypothesis-generating finding requiring further validation. Network analyses identified 21 functionally related genes, including GSTA3, GSTM4, ACVRL1, and BMPR2. Preliminary experimental analyses showed increased TXNDC12 expression and decreased GDF2 expression in PKOA model mice compared with sham controls, consistent with the MR results.Our study identifies TXNDC12 as a genetically supported PKOA-associated plasma protein, while GDF2 remains a hypothesis-generating candidate requiring further validation. These findings provide preliminary associative evidence linking both proteins to PKOA and warrant further mechanistic investigation.Copyright © 2026 Hu, Rao, Luo, Tao, Wu, Sun and Li.
Mutations in BMPR2 are the most common genetic cause of heritable pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). We report a 47-years-old male with a BMPR2 variant (c.246A > G) who presented with dyspnea and recurrent hemoptysis. Right heart catheterization confirmed PAH with a mean PAP of 46 mmHg, PAWP of 3 mmHg, and PVR of 10.75 WU. A pulmonary artery biopsy was performed to exclude alternative diagnoses such as vasculitis and chronic thromboembolism. Histology showed foam cell accumulation in the intima, infiltration of CD3+ T cells, CD20+ B cells, and CD68+ histiocytes in the intima and media, and mucoid deposition. These findings suggest an active inflammatory component and dysregulation of lipid metabolism in early-stage PAH. Targeted PAH therapy improved symptoms, and resolved hemoptysis after bronchial artery embolization. Although the variant is of uncertain significance, this rare biopsy provides early pathological insights into BMPR2-associated PAH. Further studies are needed to clarify mechanisms linking BMPR2, inflammation, and lipid metabolism in vascular remodeling.Copyright © 2026 Wu, Guo, Wang, Jiang and Wang.
Iron deficiency anemia (IDA) affects over two billion people, yet up to half of patients show inadequate response to oral iron therapy. We hypothesized that IDA is a primary duodenal mucosal disorder where dysbiosis and immune polarization converge to impair enterocyte iron export. This study integrates mucosal-associated microbiome and transcriptomic profiling to elucidate mechanisms underlying impaired iron handling.Duodenal biopsies from women with IDA (n = 11) and matched controls (n = 9) underwent paired 16S rRNA and RNA-Seq. A Microbial Redox Index (MRI) quantified oxygen-tolerant taxa. Multilayer network modeling linked microbial hubs to epithelial transcriptional remodeling in iron-handling, inflammatory, and barrier-integrity pathways.IDA subjects demonstrated expected hematological deficits (hemoglobin 10.02 ± 0.82 vs. 12.69 ± 0.67 g/dL; ferritin 10.7 [8.2-35.3] vs. 49.7 [28.4-58.7] ng/mL; P < 0.05). Although the overall ratio of oxygen-tolerant to anaerobic taxa was comparable between groups (P = 0.44), IDA was marked by a collapse of homeostatic ecological control. In controls, Group V a/V b anaerobes showed a strong inverse correlation with Shannon diversity (P = 0.009), indicating a stable, niche-restricting anaerobic core. This relationship was lost in IDA, where both oxygen-tolerant and anaerobic taxa displayed positive correlations with Th17 skewed inflammation (IL17A log2FC = +3.59), hypoxic stress (EGLN3 log2FC = +1.31), and sensitized BMP signaling (BMPR2 log2FC = +0.50). These transcriptomic signatures could reflect a functional ferroportin blockade, as reflected by SLC40A1 mRNA upregulation (log2FC = +1.02) concurrent with a proposed model of post translational ferroportin suppression, despite profound cellular iron starvation (TFRC log2FC = +1.58; SLC11A2 log2FC = +2.2). Together, these features are consistent with a possible enterocyte iron retention phenotype. The lncRNA LOC124902620 emerged as a central regulatory hub linking dysbiosis to iron-handling genes.IDA is a duodenal mucosal disorder where dysbiosis-driven redox shifts and immune activation could support a model of hepcidin associated ferroportin downregulation. This is consistent with a proposed enterocyte iron retention phenotype. Microbial hubs and the LOC124902620 axis are promising targets for precision interventions to restore mucosal iron export.Copyright © 2026 Agrawal, Dash, Jumin, Samal, Mishra, Raghav, Ramakrishna and Ramadass.
Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension (PAH) is a rare vascular disorder characterized by elevated pressure in pulmonary arteries, eventually leading to right ventricular failure. Approximately 50% of pediatric disease and 20% of adult disease can be linked to a genetic mutation, with nearly 70% of these cases involving mutations in the bone morphogenetic protein receptor type 2 (BMPR2) locus. Investigations using rodent models have made substantial advances in our understanding of BMPR2 signaling; however, limited data exist regarding the onset and course of PAH, and etiologies for phenotypic expression in these patients remain unknown. In this work, we describe the development of an ovine model of heritable PAH. Because homozygous disruption of BMPR2 is embryonic lethal, we developed heterozygous BMPR2 sheep by using a PAM-disrupting synonymous single stranded oligodeoxyribonucleotide alongside a single guide RNA and Cas9 mediated gene editing strategy. The resulting BMPR2(+/-) lambs demonstrated cardiac and pulmonary vascular pathology that are consistent with BMPR2 mutation-driven PAH observed in humans. Given the genetic and physiological similarities of BMPR2(+/-) sheep to humans with heritable PAH, this large animal model will serve as a vital platform for mechanistic molecular studies and will provide a much-needed pre-clinical model for extensive treatment evaluations.
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most aggressive and lethal primary tumor of the central nervous system. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are key post transcriptional regulators of gene expression, and increasing evidence suggests that miRNA relationships may contribute to regulatory complexity in cancer biology. In this study, we combined in silico analyses of ten independent miRNA expression datasets (TCGA and GEO) with functional validation in GBM cell models to investigate the association between miR-132 and miR-21 in GBM. Differential expression analysis consistently demonstrated significant overexpression of miR-21-5p and downregulation of miR-132-3p in GBM tissues compared with normal brain. These findings were validated in U87 and C6 GBM cell lines using qRT-PCR, confirming consistent dysregulation of both miRNAs in vitro (p < 0.05). Functional experiments demonstrated that miR-132 overexpression is associated with reduced miR-21 expression and increased expression of established miR-21 target genes, including BMPR2 and BCL11B at both mRNA and protein levels. These molecular changes were accompanied by reduced metabolic activity, impaired wound closure, and increased apoptotic cell death in both U87 and C6 GBM models. Collectively, these findings support a strong functional association between miR-132 expression and miR-21 related regulatory networks and phenotypic changes in GBM. However, the present study does not provide evidence for a direct physical or fundamental interaction between miR-132 and miR-21. Further mechanistic studies, including rescue experiments and direct binding assays, are required to clarify the underlying regulatory mechanisms.Copyright: © 2026 Abdi et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
The bone morphogenetic protein receptor type 2 (BMPR2) is expressed in multiple cell types, including endothelial cells, and mediates cell signaling via binding of transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) family ligands, contributing to balanced cell proliferation, apoptosis, and angiogenesis. BMPR2 N-glycosylation reportedly influences ligand binding. Here, we sought to develop a bottom-up nanoliquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method to obtain evidence of site-specific N-glycosylation of human BMPR2. To optimize the observation of all three predicted N-glycosylation sites, three protease combinations were tested. Trypsin-Glu-C N-glycopeptides spanning all three putative BMPR2 N-glycosylation sites (N29, N84, and N100) were observed. Analyses of N-glycosylation site occupancy revealed that sites N29 and N84 are highly occupied, while a minor but detectable proportion of BMPR2 is not glycosylated at site N100. Glycopeptide analyses revealed N-glycan compositions consistent with hybrid and complex glycoforms with abundant fucosylation and sialylation. The nLC-MS/MS method established here will facilitate the study of BMPR2 N-glycosylation and its function in homeostasis and disease. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD066494.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
To evaluate the effects of melatonin on chondrogenic and osteogenic differentiation, chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation, and inflammatory responses in equine mesenchymal stem cells (eMSCs) in vitro.This in vitro experimental study was conducted from October 2023 through June 2024. The eMSCs were cultured under chondrogenic, osteogenic, and chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation conditions with or without melatonin and exposed to proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1β and tumor necrosis factor-α [TNF-α]). Expression of chondrogenic and osteogenic markers was measured by quantitative reverse-transcription PCR. Concentrations of IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-8 in culture supernatants were quantified by multiplex immunoassay.In chondrogenic cultures, melatonin was associated with increased collagen type II (COLII) and sex-determining region Y-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9) expression and was associated with higher COLII-to-collagen type I (COLI) and SOX9-to-runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) ratios, consistent with preservation of chondrogenic phenotype. During chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation, melatonin increased RUNX2 and ALP expression and decreased COLII:COLI and SOX9:RUNX2 ratios, suggesting promotion of an early osteogenic or hypertrophic shift. In contrast, in osteogenic cultures, melatonin decreased RUNX2, ALP, and COLI expression, indicating context-dependent effects on osteogenic differentiation. Across culture conditions, melatonin significantly reduced IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-8 concentrations in culture supernatants.Melatonin differentially modulated lineage behavior in eMSCs, preserving chondrogenic characteristics in some settings, promoting early osteogenic transition during transdifferentiation, and suppressing proinflammatory mediator production.These findings support further investigation of melatonin as a potential adjunct for modulating proinflammatory responses during equine cartilage repair and other inflammatory musculoskeletal disorders.
Peri-implantitis is caused by bacterial infection. Melatonin (Mel) is effective on treating periodontitis, but its efficacy on peri-implantitis remains unclear. The present study assessed the therapeutic effects of Mel on peri-implantitis and its mode of action. Peri-implant in vivo model was generated by implanting titanium implants and feeding rats with sugar water. Human periodontal ligament stem cells (hPDLSCs) were treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to induce inflammation in vitro. Inflammation was evaluated by measuring cytokines contents. Osteogenic differentiation was assessed by Alkaline phosphatase and Alizarin red S staining, and measurements of RUNX2, OCN and OPN through quantitative real-time PCR. Effect of Mel in vivo was evaluated by hematoxylin-eosin staining. Results showed that Mel significantly inhibited inflammation but facilitated osteogenic differentiation in LPS-induced hPDLSCs. In LPS-treated hPDLSCs, Mel enhanced protein succinylation while elevating HAT1 expression. Notably, the beneficial effects of Mel on suppressing inflammation and promoting osteogenic differentiation were reversed by HAT1 knockdown. Mechanically, HAT1 knockdown inhibited succinylation and stability of p65 protein, but enhanced phosphorylation of p65 and p65 nuclear translocation at K311 site. Consistently, in the rat peri-implantitis model, Mel treatment suppressed inflammatory infiltration and promoted osteogenic differentiation, effects which were dependent on HAT1 expression and associated with increased p65 succinylation and decreased phosphorylation. In conclusion, we demonstrated that Mel exerts therapeutic effects on peri-implantitis in vivo, and our in vitro data suggests this may be mediated by promoting p65 succinylation by upregulating HAT1, thereby inhibiting p65 nuclear translocation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
For proper locomotion, bone and muscle development must be tightly coordinated. Skeletal muscle secretes myokines that affect tissues, including bone. We previously showed that maternal exercise (ME) enhances fetal muscle development through apelin signaling. However, whether mitochondrial dysfunction impairs fetal skeletal development and whether ME mitigates these defects remain unclear. Heterozygous POLG mutant (Polgmut/+) mice were used to examine the effects of ME and apelin signaling on fetal osteogenesis. Pregnant Polgmut/+ females underwent treadmill exercise, and apelin receptor knockdown (ApjKD) mice and maternal apelin supplementation were used to evaluate apelin signaling. POLG mutation impaired fetal osteogenesis and disrupted skeletal morphology. RNA-seq revealed downregulation of pathways related to cytoskeletal organization and mitochondrial function. ME was associated with upregulation of osteogenesis and development. ME increased apelin abundance in maternal-fetal circulation and tissues, including fetal muscle and bone. Importantly, apelin administration increased fetal osteogenesis in POLG mutation, whereas ApjKD reduced osteogenic signaling in fetal bone and myogenic gene expression in fetal muscle. Apelin also enhanced mitochondrial respiration in fetal bone-derived osteogenic cells. Mechanistically, ME-induced apelin signaling was associated with increased mitochondrial biogenesis and enhanced ATF4-RUNX2 regulatory signaling. Collectively, these findings suggest that ME-induced apelin signaling contributes to fetal skeletal development under mitochondrial dysfunction.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Dentinogenesis, a process essential for tooth function, relies on the precise differentiation of dental papilla cells into odontoblasts. This lineage commitment is governed by complex transcription factor networks. RUNX2 and KLF4, known key TFs co-expressed in this process, were proven to operate synergistically, but the specific cofactors coordinating their activity at the chromatin level remain unknown. Here, we identify the chromatin remodeller BRD9 as a novel interactor of both RUNX2 and KLF4 during odontoblastic differentiation. To probe their shared function, we generated neural crest-specific conditional knockout mice. Wnt1-Cre; Brd9fl/fl mice exhibited a disordered odontoblast layer with reduced secretion of extracellular matrix proteins (DMP1 and DSPP), strikingly phenocopying the compound Wnt1-Cre; Runx2fl/wt; Klf4fl/fl mutants. In vitro, chemical BRD9 degradation suppressed odontoblastic differentiation and mineral deposition. Integrative analyses of RNA-seq and ATAC-seq revealed that BRD9 maintained chromatin accessibility at odontogenesis-associated regions enriched with RUNX2 and KLF4 motifs, specifically at the Fam20c enhancer, thereby facilitating RUNX2 and KLF4 binding for transcriptional activation. Crucially, exogenous supplementation of FAM20C protein partially rescued the odontoblastic differentiation defects upon BRD9 loss. These findings establish BRD9 as a critical epigenetic orchestrator that coordinates RUNX2-KLF4 synergy to activate key odontogenic genes like Fam20c, thus affecting odontoblastic differentiation and dentinogenesis.© 2026 The Author(s). Cell Proliferation published by Beijing Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Microplastic pollution poses a growing threat to aquatic ecosystems, yet its impacts on skeletal development in fish remain poorly understood. This study investigated the toxic effects of polystyrene microplastics (PS MPs) on skeletal development in zebrafish and compared the findings with recent reports in marine medaka to identify conserved and species-specific responses. In zebrafish, PS MPs accumulated primarily in the intestine, gill, and liver, leading to spinal deformities and cartilage matrix degradation. Exposure induced biphasic (14 vs. 28 days), time-dependent toxicity: short-term (14 days) stimulated osteogenic activity and locomotion, whereas prolonged exposure (28 days) suppressed cartilage differentiation and reduced swimming performance. Transcriptomic and qPCR analyses revealed dysregulation of key osteogenic and chondrogenic genes. To evaluate cross-species relevance, we also compare our zebrafish data with those from the marine medaka, which do not have osteocytes-a key structural difference that may influence toxic susceptibility. Consistent with marine medaka, both models show PS MP accumulation in gastrointestinal and respiratory tissues, biphasic behavioral changes, and disruption of conserved skeletogenic pathways (e.g., Runx2-Sp7 axis). However, differences in bone cell biology and in the manifestation of skeletal lesions highlight model-specific toxicological nuances. These findings underscore the dual-phase toxicity of PS MPs on fish skeletal systems and emphasize the value of multi-species comparisons for comprehensive ecological risk assessment of microplastics in aquatic environments.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
DEGDB, also known as diethylene glycol dibenzoate, is a new eco-conscious plasticizer on the block. However, the environmental and health implications of this substance remain poorly understood. The research utilized a synergistic bioinformatics and laboratory methodology to explore the functions and underlying process of DEGDB in the context of osteoporosis (OP). Through mining transcriptome datasets and constructing machine learning models, we identified five core genes associated with DEGDB-related OP. Cross-analysis with protein-protein interaction networks pinpointed matrix metalloproteinase 3 (MMP3) as a key target. Molecular docking and dynamics simulations confirmed a stable binding affinity between DEGDB and MMP3. In vitro experiments using bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) revealed that non-cytotoxic concentrations of DEGDB significantly inhibited osteogenic differentiation, as evidenced by reduced alkaline phosphatase activity, mineralized nodule formation, and downregulation of osteogenic markers (Runt-related transcription factor 2, RUNX2; Collagen type I alpha 1 chain, COL1A1). Mechanistically, DEGDB promoted the phosphorylation of the NF-κB (Nuclear factor kappa B) pathway and subsequently upregulated the expression of MMP3, both at mRNA and protein levels. These findings suggest that DEGDB may impair bone formation by activating the NF-κB/MMP3 axis, highlighting its potential risk as an environmental pollutant contributing to OP and providing new insights into the molecular mechanisms linking plasticizer exposure to bone metabolic disorders.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study aimed to investigate the role of the extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs) signaling pathway in orthodontic force-induced mechanotransduction and osteogenic differentiation, and explore its potential crosstalk with signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), whose regulatory mechanism remains unclear.In vitro, MC3T3-E1 preosteoblasts were exposed to cyclic tensile strain (2000 μstrain, 0.5 Hz, 4 h) with or without the specific ERKs inhibitor SCH772984. In vivo, a mouse orthodontic tooth movement (OTM) model was established with 4g force, and SCH772984 was locally injected into periodontal tissues. Pathway protein expression, osteogenic marker levels, tooth movement distance, and bone microarchitecture were analyzed.Mechanical strain significantly activated ERKs and STAT3 phosphorylation and upregulated key osteogenic markers (Runx2, OSX, OPN, ALP) in vitro; these effects were inhibited by SCH772984 except for COL1. In vivo, orthodontic force-induced alveolar bone remodeling and OTM, with osteogenic markers predominantly elevated on the tension side. SCH772984 treatment suppressed ERKs activation and reduced tooth movement by ~40% (all P<0.05).The ERKs pathway is a critical mediator of orthodontic force-induced alveolar bone remodeling and OTM, functioning partially through STAT3. These findings establish the ERKs/STAT3 axis as a promising therapeutic target for accelerating orthodontic treatment.Copyright © 2026 by Mutaz B. Habal, MD.
Formate hydrogenlyases are metalloenzymes that can either produce molecular hydrogen gas or use H2 to convert carbon dioxide to formic acid, thus potentially contributing doubly to a sustainable energy future. The structure of formate hydrogenlyase reveals a membrane-bound redox enzyme that shares a common ancestor with the mitochondrial complex I (NADH dehydrogenase). As such, formate hydrogenlyase falls into a category of so-called 'complex-I-like' enzymes, that are found in bacteria, archaea and eukaryotic organelles. They share a common core structure of a membrane arm (most likely involved in proton or ion translocation) and a peripheral arm containing metal cofactors and involved in electron transfer. In this work, we clone a gene cluster from Pectobacterium atrosepticum encoding formate hydrogenlyase-2 (FHL-2). A bank of Escherichia coli host strains, themselves devoid of various combinations of native formate hydrogenlyase genes, are employed to characterise FHL-2. We demonstrate that P. atrosepticum FHL-2 is active in an E. coli host in that it can generate H2 under fermentative growth conditions. Unlike native E. coli formate hydrogenlyase-1 (FHL-1), recombinant P. atrosepticum FHL-2 cannot perform the reverse reaction and generate formic acid from H2 and CO2. By testing different combinations of genes by taking an in vivo cross-complementation approach we conclude that the extended membrane arm exhibited by FHL-2 is a major factor in controlling directionality of the enzyme.© 2026. The Author(s).
DNA methylation is an established biomarker of human ageing and is used by a variety of tools to identify meaningful epigenetic signals. We investigated whether analysing CpGs grouped by transcript as functional units could generate a ranked list of transcripts most correlated with age that might otherwise be overlooked in genome-wide CpG-based studies. Here we present Epitage ( https://github.com/a00s/epitage ), a continuously updated ranked list of transcripts built from the GSE87571 dataset (714 whole-blood samples, ages 14-94 years) through intensive testing with machine-learning models. To support reproducible analyses, we developed ugPlot ( https://github.com/a00s/ugplot ), an open-source R/Shiny tool with a graphical user interface that automates model training, testing, and comparison. Initially, we identified 48 transcripts across 13 genes, with some transcripts from the genes OBSCN, PRRT1, and SPTBN4 showing better predictive performance when multiple associated CpGs were analysed together rather than individually. In contrast, for the majority of transcripts, a dominant individual CpG still showed a higher Spearman correlation with age, as seen in established ageing genes such as ELOVL2, FHL2, and TRIM59. Epitage is a transcript-ranking list based on the methylation patterns observed in the analysed dataset. It provides a reproducible framework for prioritising transcripts associated with human ageing and for guiding future epigenetic studies.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Background Cognitive symptoms after SARS-CoV-2 infection, often described as "brain fog," remain difficult to measure objectively and are biologically heterogeneous. DNA methylation may provide a stable, blood-accessible layer of information linking post-COVID immune remodeling, biological aging, and neuropsychiatric vulnerability. We re-analyzed GSE247869, a whole-blood Illumina MethylationEPIC dataset from individuals sampled six months after COVID-19 infection, to identify age-associated methylation signals with translational relevance. The present analysis was designed to characterize age-associated methylation within this post-COVID cohort, not to establish a COVID-19-specific signature or biological age acceleration. Methodology This was a cross-sectional analysis of a single post-COVID cohort, with 94 samples included in the age models and no COVID-19-negative comparator included in the analyzed model. Processed beta values were aligned to metadata, converted to M-values, and modeled at each cytosine-phosphate-guanine (CpG) using ordinary least squares with age and sex as predictors. Differentially methylated positions were corrected by Benjamini-Hochberg false discovery rate (FDR). CpGs were mapped to genes using robust annotation and Illumina manifest fallback. Gene-level signals were integrated using a multi-evidence prioritization score that incorporated statistical strength, effect size, multi-CpG support, direction consistency, known epigenetic-clock membership, and curated pathway membership. Results Within this cohort, the analysis identified 3,467 age-associated CpGs at FDR < 0.05, with an overall hypomethylation bias but focal hypermethylation at canonical aging loci. In total, 11 of 12 reference clock CpGs were recovered, including ELOVL2, FHL2, TRIM59, EDARADD, ASPA, and PDE4C. The strongest exploratory signal was enrichment of glutamatergic/N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) genes, including GRIN1, GRIN2C, GRIN2D, GRM1, GRM5, and SLC17A7. GRIN1 and GRIN2C had high integrated evidence scores and showed age-associated hypermethylation. The prioritized genes mapped interpretively to glutamatergic synapse, calcium signaling, and cAMP signaling pathways, although these complete KEGG pathways were not tested as formal enrichment categories. Conclusions This re-analysis recovered established age-associated CpGs and identified age-associated methylation enrichment near glutamatergic/NMDA genes within this post-COVID cohort. It cannot determine whether these signals are specific to COVID-19 infection, reflect accelerated biological aging, or relate to cognitive symptoms because no COVID-19-negative comparator or symptom-level cognitive phenotyping was included in the present analysis. The glutamatergic finding is hypothesis-generating, particularly because the curated set was small and no independent replication cohort was analyzed. Future longitudinal and case-control studies integrating GRIN1/GRIN2C methylation with cognitive and inflammatory phenotyping are needed. Glutamatergic and calcium-signaling pathways may be evaluated in appropriately designed mechanistic and intervention studies, including but not limited to hypotheses related to the Cheung Glutamatergic Regimen, only after independent validation and careful safety evaluation.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
Familial HLH is an autosomal recessive condition characterized by mutations in genes responsible for the secretory lysosome-dependent exocytosis pathway. Its diagnosis is often challenging to complex clinical presentation, and prompt treatment is essential to avoid fatal outcomes. We describe a novel PRF1 mutation variant p.Y296C c.887 A>G in a pediatric patient with familial HLH (FHL2), which has not yet been reported in the literature to be associated with primary HLH. In this case, we also hypothesize that the phenomenon of immunoporosis contributed to the significant skeletal muscle findings reported in our patient.Copyright © 2026 Al-Antary, Gupte and Savaşan.
Endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EndoMT), a process in which endothelial cells progressively differentiate into a mesenchymal phenotype, is a pivotal contributor to cardiac fibrotic remodelling and heart failure (HF) pathogenesis following ischaemic injury. In this study, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1) was identified as a critical driver of EndoMT in ischaemic HF. Single-cell sequencing data indicated that compared with other cardiac cell types, cardiac endothelial cells highly express PARP1. PARP1 was upregulated in patients with dilated or ischaemic cardiomyopathy, as well as in patients with myocardial infarction who developed HF. Similarly, PARP1 upregulation was observed in vitro in EndoMT models induced by hypoxia or TGF-β1(Transforming Growth Factor Beta 1)/IL-1β (Interleukin-1β) and in vivo in cardiac endothelial cells from mice with ischaemic HF induced by permanent left anterior descending (LAD) artery ligation. Pharmacological inhibition and knockdown of PARP1 expression significantly inhibited EndoMT. Moreover, treatment with PARP1 inhibitors or endothelial-specific AAV-mediated delivery of PARP1 shRNA prevented ischaemia-induced EndoMT, fibrosis and cardiac dysfunction in mice. Mechanistically, PARP1 catalysed the poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation (PARylation) modification of four-and-a-half LIM domains protein 2 (FHL2), a key regulator of EndoMT. PARylation of FHL2 at residues Asp50, Glu63 and Asp77 promoted its nuclear retention, enhanced its interaction with β-catenin, and potentiated β-catenin transcriptional activity. Abrogating FHL2 PARylation via site-directed mutagenesis abolished the pro-EndoMT effects of PARP1. These findings establish endothelial PARP1 as a promising therapeutic target for EndoMT in ischaemic HF.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.
Inborn errors of immunity are rare genetic disorders that cause dysfunction of the immune system. Among these, familial haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (FHL) involves defects in the perforin/granzyme pathway, which is essential for regulating immune responses. These conditions predispose individuals to haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis, a life-threatening hyperinflammatory syndrome. FHL has traditionally been described in paediatric patients with a fatal outcome in the absence of early haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. However, some patients harbouring missense mutations may present with atypical or late-onset symptoms, for which management remains unstandardised. Among these reported variants, the pathogenicity of the A91V PRF1 mutation remains the most controversial in the literature.We report clinical, biological and cytometric characteristics of two patients with a homozygous PRF1 A91V mutation who developed clinical features consistent with FHL2.We discuss the latest 2024 classifications to better characterise this group of disorders and their underlying genetic basis, with particular emphasis on atypical presentations and the A91V mutation, which may pose diagnostic and therapeutic challenges.A91V PRF1 variant appears to represent a risk factor for the development of atypical FHL manifestations under divers triggers.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical & Translational Immunology published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Australian and New Zealand Society for Immunology, Inc.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42290546
The accurate assessment of chronological age through DNA methylation (DNAm) patterns has emerged as a promising forensic-age estimation tool. This study, therefore, assessed seven age-associated CpG sites to develop an epigenetic age-prediction model capable of rendering reliable outputs especially in the Pakistani population, a population group underrepresented in current epigenetic aging studies. A total of seven age-related CpG sites, KLF14 (cg14361627), CCDC102B (cg19283806), TRIM59 (cg07553761), ASPA (cg02228185), C1ORF132 (cg10501210), FHL2 (cg06639320), and ELOVL2 (cg16867657), were selected and analyzed in blood samples of 181 individuals categorized into different age groups (1 to 76 years). A methylation SNaPshot™ multiplex assay was performed, three different age prediction models like stepwise regression, multivariate linear regression (MVLR), and support vector machine (SVM), were established based on the methylation data of SNaPshot™ multiplex assay. The stepwise regression model and multivariate linear regression enabled age prediction, with mean absolute deviations (MADs) = 3.60 and 3.69, respectively, whereas the SVM model enabled age prediction, with MAD = 3.40. An independent set of 53 samples was used to test the performance of the three models, and the prediction MADs for the validation set were 3.92, 3.73 and 3.44 for the stepwise regression, multivariate linear regression and SVM models, respectively. The number of correct predictions for ± 4 years reached high values of 69.81%, 71.69% and 77.35% for the stepwise regression, MVLR and SVM models, respectively. The results revealed that all seven markers were significantly associated with age, but ELOVL2 and FHL2 are reliable candidates for age estimation models in Pakistan due to their robustness and minimal redundancy among evaluated CpG sites. However, CCDC102B (cg19283806) had the lowest association levels, respectively. Prediction accuracy was found to decrease with increasing age, suggesting that environmental and lifestyle factors may play an increasingly important role in determining biological age-especially so in Pakistan where air pollution and other lifestyle indicators may accelerate biological age. These findings further highlight the need to study DNA methylation changes in polluted settings in order to improve age prediction systems and bridge the gap between chronological and biological age. Additional optimization using population samples and various forensic materials such as bloodstains, saliva, and body fluids is required to improve the performance and applicability of the model in real-life forensic situations.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Formate hydrogenlyase (FHL) enzymes are evolutionarily related to mitochondrial complex I. Formate-inducible FHL-1 of Escherichia coli catalyzes disproportionation of formic acid into H2 and CO2 during mixed-acid fermentation. In contrast to FHL-2 enzymes found in many microorganisms, including E. coli, FHL-1 shares only two of the usual five membrane-domain subunits, perhaps explaining its apparent inability to translocate protons. This raises the question, however, as to the physiological function of the FHL-1 enzyme. Here, we demonstrate that FHL-1 serves to regulate intracellular pH and CO2 levels in stationary-phase fermenting cells. Determination of intracellular and extracellular pH values in E. coli strains with and without an FHL-1 enzyme revealed an alkalinization (0.5 pH units) of the cytoplasm in cells lacking FHL-1. This increase in pHi correlated with a concomitant threefold decrease in the ATP concentration in these cells, while the parental strain retained both high ATP levels and a pHi of 6.7. The reduction in ATP levels in the mutant correlated with an increase in F1Fo-ATPase activity. Remarkably, ATP levels and pHi in the FHL-1-negative mutant could be restored to near wild-type levels by growth in the presence of bicarbonate. Together, these data indicate that FHL-1 functions to provide CO2/bicarbonate for key carboxylation reactions, concomitantly maintaining intracellular pH homeostasis and thereby indirectly optimizing ATP levels by preventing excessive ATP hydrolysis via F1Fo-ATPase in its attempt to neutralize pHi. CO2 production by cytoplasmically oriented FHL-1 substitutes for a pyruvate decarboxylation reaction, and explains why maintaining formate homeostasis is central to mixed-acid fermentation.The signature molecule of enterobacterial mixed-acid fermentation, formate, is disproportionated into H2 and CO2 by formate hydrogenlyase (FHL), an evolutionarily ancient enzyme phylogenetically related to proton-translocating complex I. However, as FHL-1 of Escherichia coli lacks the capacity to translocate protons, its physiological role remains unclear. We show that FHL-1 functions to maintain pH homeostasis and intracellular CO2/bicarbonate levels in stationary-phase cells. Mutants lacking a functional FHL-1 fail to generate H2 and CO2, causing activation of F1Fo-ATPase, which hydrolyzes ATP to maintain neutral cytoplasmic pH. The balance between formate synthesis and its intracellular disproportionation is necessary to maintain the supply of bicarbonate for carboxylation reactions, thus ensuring pH homeostasis and ultimately optimal ATP levels, which together aid stationary-phase survival.
Endothelial tissues are essential mechanosensors in the vasculature, and defects in their response to mechanical cues such as blood flow can lead to endothelial dysfunction and cardiovascular diseases like atherosclerosis. Here, we explore how mechanoresponses tune endothelial tissue physiology and function. By bulk RNA sequencing in endothelial cells experiencing varying flow profiles, we identify a set of novel mechanosensitive genes associated with the cytoskeleton and adhesion structures. We focus on a cytoskeletal protein, Four-and-a-half LIM protein 2 (FHL2), which is consistently enriched in endothelial tissues experiencing atherosclerosis-prone disturbed flow, both in vitro and in vivo. We demonstrate that increased FHL2 expression is necessary and sufficient to induce hallmarks of atherosclerosis-like endothelial phenotypes, including aberrant cell morphology, discontinuous cell junctions, hypercontractility, and increased tissue permeability. Strikingly, this atherosclerosis-like phenotype requires the force-sensitive binding of FHL2 to the actin cytoskeleton. Mechanistically, we show that FHL2 controls endothelial tissue phenotypes by promoting RhoGTPase-dependent actomyosin contractility via release of the microtubule-bound RhoGTPase effector, GEF-H1. These findings reveal a positive mechanochemical feedback wherein FHL2 force-sensitivity tunes multi-scale mechanoresponses and endothelial tissue physiology.© 2026. The Author(s).
Homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 2 (HIPK2) can function either as a tumour suppressor or promoter in cancer. Understanding key features of HIPK2 context dependent effects in cancer could lead to novel therapeutic strategies. Our investigation of HIPK2 expression in gastric cancer (GC) showed it to be down regulated.HIPK2 manifested context dependent anti- and pro-tumorigenic effects as demonstrated in GC cell lines SNU638 and NUGC-3 (β-Cateninlow, CD44Hi) and AGS (β-CateninHi, CD44low). The dualistic effects could be plausible due to HIPK2's differential impacts on the Akt-mTOR pathway. The HIPK2 inhibitor TBID further supported this context-dependent regulation of mTOR markers. Gene expression combined with protein-protein interactions analysis was used to identify the HIPK2-NLK-MAPK11 axis linked by their interaction with transcription factor MYB in GC. Validation of the axis was shown by increased NLK and MAPK11 expression in GC cell lines concordant with lower HIPK2 expression. Similarly, HIPK2 ectopically expressing cells showed lower levels of NLK and MAPK11 expression. Combinatorial targeting of HIPK2-NLK/MAPK11 axis with (HIPK2i + NLKi) or (HIPK2i + MAPK11i) resulted in a synergistic effect suppressing GC cell proliferation and mTOR markers. Targeting HIPK2 in combination with NLK or MAPK11 can be a promising strategy to overcome context dependent effects of HIPK2.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Human Cell Society.
Despite advances in therapy, pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) remains progressive with poor survival. Although dysregulation of Bone Morphogenetic Protein (BMP) signaling is central to PAH, key modulators of this pathway remain incompletely defined.To identify the role of BMP3 in pulmonary vascular homeostasis and PAH.BMP3 expression was assessed in experimental pulmonary hypertension (PH) and in pulmonary vascular cells and plasma from PAH patients. In vitro studies were performed in human pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells (hPASMCs) and endothelial cells (hPAECs). Global and SMC-specific Bmp3-deficient mice were generated. Recombinant BMP3 and adeno-associated viruses (AAV) were used to overexpress BMP3 in animal models of PAH.BMP3 is predominantly expressed in PASMCs and is consistently downregulated in experimental and human PAH. Secreted BMP3 from PAH-PASMCs and circulating BMP3 levels in PAH patients were significantly reduced. Functionally, PASMC-derived BMP3 inhibited the migration and proliferation of PAH-diseased PAEC. In both global and SMC-specific Bmp3-deficient mice, induction of PAH led to significantly exacerbated disease in middle-aged mice. A recombinant BMP3 prevented and reversed PAH in mice. Furthermore, lung-targeted overexpression of BMP3, via AAV1-BMP3, reversed pulmonary vascular remodeling and ameliorated cardiac function in both mice and rats. Mechanistically, BMP3 restored the balance between BMP/SMAD1,5,8 and TGF-β/SMAD2,3 signaling, and decreased the expression of cell cycle genes in PAECs.BMP3 acts as a paracrine regulator of pulmonary vascular homeostasis and may contribute to the modulation of TGF-β/BMP signaling in PAH, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target.Copyright ©The authors 2026.
Cranial suture formation is a dynamic process that requires precise cellular and molecular coordination to regulate bone growth and maintain suture homeostasis. The Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor 3 (FGFR3) signaling pathway is among the major pathways disrupted in craniosynostosis; however, its precise role during cranial suture formation is still unknown. Using a relevant fgfr3 LoF zebrafish model exhibiting abnormal suture morphology, we demonstrated for the first time that Fgfr3 plays a pleiotropic role in both the formation and maintenance of cranial sutures. Transmission electron microscopy and second harmonic generation imaging revealed that Fgfr3 is essential for the proper organization of the collagen network within the suture. Using specific transgenic reporter lines, we showed that Fgfr3 is crucial for regulating osteogenesis in this region. Specifically, Fgfr3 limits the number of osteoprogenitors at the osteogenic front and promotes osteoblast maturation at the suture edge. RNAscope analyses further revealed that loss of Fgfr3 led to significant upregulation of fgf18 expression. Finally, our findings show that loss of Fgfr3 results in the activation of the canonical Wnt pathway, and possibly the BMP pathway, within cranial sutures. Pharmacological inhibition of canonical Wnt signaling during suture development using the β-catenin inhibitor XAV939 restored fgf18 expression, partially normalized levels of the BMP antagonist grem1, reduced SMAD1/5 phosphorylation, and produced a significant improvement in cranial suture morphology. In conclusion, these findings position Fgfr3 as a central regulator of cranial suture formation and homeostasis, acting through intricate cross-talk between the FGF, canonical Wnt, and possibly BMP signaling pathways. These data offer new insights into the biology of cranial suture and FGFR3-related craniosynostoses.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42512398 is a review article
The protein-protein interaction (PPI) between metadherin (MTDH) and staphylococcal nuclease and tudor domain-containing 1 (SND1) drives oncogenic signaling and tumor progression in multiple cancer types, yet remains an underexploited therapeutic target. Here, we report an integrated computational-experimental strategy to identify small-molecule disruptors of the MTDH-SND1 interface. A focused PubChem library of 4149 2-arylbenzothiazoles was screened using a tiered workflow combining drug-likeness/PAINS filtering, hierarchical docking into the MTDH-binding groove on SND1 (PDB 4QMG), and MM/PBSA-based refinement. Top-ranked candidates were further evaluated by 1-μs molecular dynamics (MD) simulations and prioritized based on pose stability and interfacial engagement metrics. Four representative hits-L1 (2-(4-aminophenyl)benzothiazole), L2 (2-(4-amino-3-methylphenyl)-5-fluorobenzothiazole), L3 (YL-109), and L4 (2-(3,4,5-trimethoxyphenyl)benzothiazole)-were advanced for experimental validation. MD analyses indicated ligand-dependent modulation of PPI stability and conformational landscapes, while MM/PBSA decomposition suggested binding was driven predominantly by short-range hydrophobic packing within the interfacial groove. A quantitative split-luciferase complementation assay confirmed dose-dependent disruption of MTDH-SND1 in a cell-free format with low-micromolar potency (IC50: L1 10.72 ± 1.12 μM, L2 5.72 ± 0.92 μM, L3 11.77 ± 1.42 μM, L4 7.41 ± 1.01 μM) and in a cell-based reporter (IC50: L1 35.71 ± 2.80 μM, L2 16.44 ± 0.24 μM, L3 32.96 ± 2.58 μM, L4 21.93 ± 0.9 μM). Importantly, a linked-luciferase counterscreen (IC50 > 1000 μM) supported minimal luciferase interference. MST analysis further confirmed direct binding of L1-L4 to purified SND1, yielding low-micromolar KD values. Together, these results establish 2-arylbenzothiazoles as a promising chemotype for MTDH-SND1 PPI inhibition and provide a validated computational-to-experimental framework for discovering and optimizing MTDH-directed therapeutics.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Poor tendon-bone healing is a major challenge after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). TFRD, the total flavonoids of Rhizoma Drynariae, has pharmacological effects in promoting bone formation, but it remains less understood whether it accelerates tendon-bone healing by regulating the osteogenic differentiation of tendon-derived stem cells (TDSCs). TDSCs were isolated from the Achilles tendons of rats and characterized for their stem cell properties through flow cytometry and multilineage differentiation assays. The effects of TFRD on TDSC proliferation, migration, and osteogenic differentiation were evaluated using the cell counting kit-8 assay, scratch wound healing assays, Alizarin Red S staining, and Western blot analysis. Gene and protein expression levels associated with the transforming growth factor-β/bone morphogenetic protein (TGF-β/BMP) signaling pathway were assessed by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blot. A rat ACLR model was created and divided into four experimental groups: Sham, ACLR, TFRD, and TFRD + Noggin. Tendon-bone healing was analyzed using hematoxylin and eosin staining, Masson's trichrome staining, bone mineral density measurements, and immunohistochemistry. Noggin was used to inhibit BMP signaling for pathway validation. TFRD (50-100 μg/mL) significantly enhanced the proliferation, migration, and osteogenic differentiation of TDSCs, and increased the expression of key osteogenic markers, including runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP). Mechanistically, TFRD activated the TGF-β/BMP signaling pathway, leading to elevated levels of TGF-β1, BMP-2, and phosphorylated Smad1/5/8. Moreover, TGF-β1 extended the duration of BMP-2 signaling and suppressed Noggin expression. The osteogenic effects of TFRD were diminished when Noggin was applied, indicating its role in modulating the BMP pathway. In vivo, TFRD significantly improved collagen fiber alignment, calcification, and bone mineral density at the tendon-bone junction, while also upregulating RUNX2 and ALP expression. TFRD promotes osteogenic differentiation of TDSCs by activating the TGF-β/BMP signaling pathway, improves tendon-bone healing after ACLR, and provides experimental support for its clinical application.© 2026. The Society for In Vitro Biology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42480964 is a review article
Osteoporosis, a prevalent skeletal condition defined by diminished bone density and disrupted microarchitecture, dramatically elevates fracture risk. Its pathophysiology is now understood to extend beyond classic remodeling imbalances to include a pivotal shift in bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell (BMSC) differentiation, where adipogenesis is favored over osteogenesis-a key feature of aging and estrogen deficiency. The emerging "gut-bone axis" suggests that microbiota-derived metabolites can systemically influence skeletal homeostasis, presenting new therapeutic possibilities. This research uncovers the direct osteoanabolic and anti-adipogenic properties of Reuterin (3-hydroxypropionaldehyde, Reut), a principal antimicrobial metabolite from Lactobacillus reuteri. In vitro, Reut (5-20 μM) showed excellent cytocompatibility, dose-dependently boosting osteogenic differentiation (increased ALP activity and mineralization) while effectively suppressing adipogenic differentiation (decreased lipid accumulation) in BMSCs. Mechanistically, Reut specifically activated the canonical BMP-Smad pathway, demonstrated by the rapid phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of Smad1/5/9 and the upregulated expression of its direct targets (ID1, ID2). This activation was crucial, as the BMP receptor inhibitor LDN-193189 completely negated Reut's effects. In an ovariectomized (OVX) rat model, systemic Reut administration (10 mg/kg, every other day for 8 weeks) not only mitigated trabecular bone loss and enhanced biomechanical properties but also markedly reversed the OVX-induced expansion of marrow adipose tissue (MAT). Remarkably, the bone-preserving efficacy of Reut was statistically equivalent to that of teriparatide (TPTD), a clinically approved anabolic agent, while both treatments similarly and significantly countered the pathological marrow adiposity. These results establish Reut as a novel, gut microbiome-derived therapeutic metabolite that rectifies the fundamental lineage imbalance in osteoporosis by directly engaging the BMP-Smad pathway, offering a distinct postbiotic strategy for anabolic bone therapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
MGP (matrix Gla protein) serves as an inhibitor of vascular calcification by limiting elastin degradation and regulating BMP (bone morphogenetic protein) activity. Mutation of the conserved proline residue 64 to glycine in MGP abolishes BMP binding in vitro. We hypothesized that selective loss of BMP binding would elucidate the contribution of BMP to cell differentiation in Mgp-deficient mice.Computational analyses using AlphaFold3 and molecular dynamics simulations were performed to determine the structural effects of γ-carboxylation and the proline residue 64 to glycine mutation. The vascular phenotype of Mgp-knockin mice expressing the proline residue 64 to glycine mutation was compared with wild-type (WT) and global Mgp-knockout mice. Proximity ligation assay was performed to assess MGP-BMP4 in aortic cells. Single-cell RNA-sequencing was used to identify cellular alterations in the vascular media.Molecular dynamics simulation revealed 5 Ca2+ ions coordinated by γ-carboxylated Glu residues in the MGP dimer. The proline residue 64 to glycine mutation did not disrupt Ca2+ binding but likely suppressed conformational changes required for BMP4 binding. Unlike Mgp-KO mice, Mgp-knockin mice did not develop vascular calcification, elastic lamina proteolysis, and endothelial-mesenchymal transition, but exhibited vascular fibrosis. MGP-BMP4 interaction observed in WT aortic cells was barely detectable in Mgp-knockin aortic cells. Single-cell RNA-sequencing revealed increased fractions of smooth muscle cells and enhanced myofibroblast differentiation in the Mgp-knockin aortas compared with WT. In Mgp-knockin aortas, SMAD2 expression was significantly increased throughout the vessel wall compared with WT aortas. In contrast, SMAD1/5/9 activation in the Mgp-knockout aortas was more confined to the endothelium, whereas it localized to the media-adventitia transition in WT and Mgp-knockin aortas. Both Mgp-knockin and Mgp-knockout mice developed arteriovenous malformations in the lungs, kidneys, and brain.Our findings suggest that MGP plays a versatile role in preserving vascular integrity, in part serving as an important BMP-trap aimed at directing vascular cell differentiation.
Lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) is a difficult cancer to treat, with few targeted therapies to improve its poor prognosis. The goal of this study was to use a drug repurposing strategy to evaluate and compare drug sensitivities using 2D adherent and 3D spheroid models of NCI-H2170 LUSC cells. Both 2D adherent and 3D spheroid models were used to grow NCI-H2170 lung squamous cell carcinoma cells and evaluate their sensitivity to a large library of food and drug administration (FDA)-approved drugs, including many not typically used as anti-cancer agents. Cell death was assessed in the 2D adherent models, and for the top drugs half maximal effective concentration (EC50) values were determined. For the 3D spheroid models, drugs reducing spheroid size after 4 days of treatment were identified. There were 263 drugs that reduced the cell viability to <20% when cells were grown in 2D in 10 µM drug. When grown in 3D the cells were generally more drug resistant, with 87 drugs capable of reducing spheroid volume when grown over 4 days in 10 µM drug. Interestingly, 60 drugs proved effective in both model systems including many drugs that typically associated with anti-cancer properties. Of these 60, four were further found to have selective effects towards metastatic NCI-H2170 cells as compared to a much less metastatic matched cell line expressing the metastasis suppressor CREB3L1, in both 2D and 3D model systems. These included the hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF-1α inhibitor 2-methoxyestradiol, and three anti-infection agents (cetylpyridinium chloride, chlorhexidine-2HCl, zinc pyrithione).These results suggest that the HIF-1α inhibitor 2-methoxyestradiol, and three anti-infection agents (cetylpyridinium chloride, chlorhexidine-2HCl, zinc pyrithione) may be effective for metastatic LUSCs.Copyright: © 2026 Mellor et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) is a major complication of prematurity, characterized by impaired alveolar epithelium regeneration and long-term respiratory morbidity. The cellular basis of this defect and the underlying epithelial-mesenchymal signals remain unclear. To define alveolar type 2 (AT2) cell heterogeneity and regenerative capacity, we analyzed lineage-traced AT2 cells in neonatal mice exposed to hyperoxia (85% O2, postnatal days 1-14). We assessed cellular states and function by flow cytometry, transcriptomics, and organoid assays. During normal lung development, AT2 cells gradually segregated into two transcriptionally distinct subpopulations, TomHigh and TomLow. TomHigh cells exhibited canonical AT2 identity, lipid metabolism, and enhanced mitochondrial function, showing strong organoid-forming and differentiation potential. TomLow cells displayed metabolic restriction and limited regenerative capacity. Hyperoxia caused alveolar simplification, expanding TomLow cells at the expense of TomHigh cells. AT2 cells entered a proliferative state and became Krt8+ transitional cells, but RNA velocity and lineage analyses showed impaired maturation toward AT1 cells, leading to persistent AT1 deficiency. Hyperoxia induced Sfrp1 and Frzb expression in a rare but detectable Sftpc+Acta2+ AT2 subset, and more prominently in Pdgfra+ fibroblasts, which adopted a myofibroblast-like phenotype. Fibroblast-epithelial co-culture and fibroblast-specific Sfrp1/Frzb overexpression impaired organoid formation and reduced AT2-to-AT1 differentiation. These findings identify a fibroblast-dominated Sfrp1/Frzb-mediated niche that constrains AT2 differentiation into AT1 cells, providing a cellular basis for impaired alveolar regeneration in BPD and suggesting potential therapeutic targets.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Thoracic Society. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension (IPAH) exhibits a marked female predominance. Despite this "estrogen paradox," the molecular basis of sex-associated pathogenesis remains incompletely understood, limiting the development of precision diagnostic strategies.To develop a sex-stratified computational framework that integrates transcriptomic profiling and ensemble machine learning to identify female-associated candidate biomarkers in IPAH.Sex-stratified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were derived from pulmonary arterial endothelial cells (GSE303084, n = 48) and lung tissue (GSE126262, n = 16). Functional mechanisms were explored via GO/KEGG enrichment and protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks. A consensus machine learning framework incorporating 12 feature selection algorithms prioritized stable candidate biomarkers. Model performance was evaluated using a leakage-free repeated stratified 5-fold cross-validation framework, followed by independent external validation in a female IPAH cohort. Sex-associated immune landscapes were characterized via CIBERSORTx-based deconvolution.Female-associated DEGs were associated with metabolic dysregulation, lysosomal pathways, and TGF-β/Wnt signaling. PPI analysis identified MMP1, SFRP1, SNAI2, ADAM12, and INHBA as central hub genes. The ensemble framework prioritized METTL27 and CDH11 as candidate biomarkers. A two-gene signature (METTL27 + CDH11) demonstrated robust performance under leakage-free repeated cross-validation (XGBoost mean AUC 0.875 ± 0.161) and correctly identified 26 of 28 female IPAH patients in an independent external cohort (patient-detection sensitivity 92.9%; 95% CI, 77.4-98.0%). Immune deconvolution revealed marked sex dimorphism, with adaptive immune enrichment in females and innate myeloid predominance in males.Our approach identifies a candidate two-gene signature (METTL27/CDH11) for female IPAH and highlights TGF-β/Wnt signaling, metabolic, and immune dimorphism as key drivers of sex-associated pathogenesis. These findings provide a foundation for future clinical and experimental validation of sex-informed candidate molecular biomarkers in IPAH.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Vitamin D receptor (VDR) regulates musculoskeletal biology, but its adult, tissue-specific roles are difficult to resolve with germline or conventional conditional knockouts. We developed recombinant adeno-associated viral vectors (rAAVs) to drive Cre recombinase selectively in bone or muscle and used them to delete Vdr postnatally in Vdrfl/fl mice. To engineer a muscle-selective vector, we screened AAV9 constructs carrying candidate muscle promoters and identified tMCKΔ63 as the most selective promoter. Packaging this cassette in the myotropic AAVMYO capsid further reduced off-target skeletal expression while preserving strong muscle transduction. Local intramuscular delivery of AAVMYO-tMCKΔ63 enabled unilateral targeting with minimal systemic spread. In parallel, a bone-selective AAV8-Sp7 vector supported skeletal delivery. These vectors produced tissue-restricted Vdr deletion in VdrmuscleAAV and VdrboneAAV mice. Muscle-targeted VDR loss reduced grip strength (-9.27%, p < 0.01) and endurance (-16.58%, p < 0.05). Bone-targeted deletion caused modest but significant skeletal changes, including increased cortical thickness ( + 7%, p < 0.05) and higher vertebral stiffness ( + 27%, p < 0.001), without effects on body weight or tibial strength. This scalable, crossbreeding-independent strategy enables compartment-specific functional studies in floxed models, including genes with embryonic lethality or complex tissue interactions. It also provides a general framework for iterative capsid-promoter optimization to maximize specificity in vivo across diverse tissues.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pazopanib, a first-line tyrosine kinase inhibitor for advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC), faces significant clinical limitations due to acquired resistance. In this study, we reveal a novel mechanism underlying pazopanib resistance in RCC, driven by a senescence-like phenotype without cell-cycle arrest. Transcriptomic profiling identified ALYREF as a key upregulated m5C reader in pazopanib resistant cells. Mechanistically, ALYREF stabilizes CCNA1 mRNA via m5C modification, promoting Cyclin A1 expression. The Cyclin A1-CDK2 complex phosphorylates p21 at Thr-57, inducing its cytoplasmic translocation and abrogating its inhibitory effect on cell cycle progression, thereby facilitating G1-S transition. Our findings uncover a critical ALYREF-Cyclin A1-p21 axis in RCC and suggest that targeting this pathway may provide novel therapeutic strategies to overcome pazopanib resistance.© The author(s).
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by early synaptic dysfunction followed by progressive amyloid beta (Aβ) accumulation, neuroinflammation, and cognitive decline. We previously identified secreted frizzled-related protein 1 (SFRP1) as a multifactorial contributor to AD pathogenesis and provided initial evidence that its neutralization ameliorates pathological AD-like traits in mice. Here we evaluate the pharmacodynamics, biodistribution, and therapeutic window of an anti-SFRP1 monoclonal antibody (α-SFRP1) in double transgenic amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilin-1 (PS1) mice (APP/PS1).Pharmacokinetics and target engagement of α-SFRP1 were assessed in groups of both male and female APP/PS1 mice using biotinylated or Zirconium-89 labeled (89Zr) antibodies, with tissue distribution and α-SFRP1 levels quantified by in-house enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) or positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT). Therapeutic efficacy was evaluated by administering α-SFRP1 or the SFRP1 inhibitor WAY-316606 at different stages of disease progression via retro-orbital injection, followed by analysis of AD-like pathology using ELISA and quantitative immunofluorescence assays and statistical analysis.Using 89Zr-labeled antibodies, we show that intravenously administered α-SFRP1 engages its target systemically and reaches the brain, although at substantially lower levels and with a rapid 24-h clearance. Treatment with α-SFRP1 had no apparent systemic side effects or sex-dependent differences, but its therapeutic efficacy against AD-like brain pathology was strongly dependent on disease stage. Although early administration reduced amyloid pathology in previous studies, treatment initiated at intermediate or advanced stages showed minimal benefit at standard doses. Higher antibody doses reduced amyloid burden and dystrophic neurites but were associated with increased mortality. Pharmacological inhibition of SFRP1 using a small-molecule inhibitor similarly failed to ameliorate pathology at intermediate stages.Together, these findings demonstrate that SFRP1 remains a relevant therapeutic target in AD, but its effective modulation is constrained by limited brain exposure and a narrow therapeutic window, underscoring the importance of early intervention and prompting the search for improved brain-targeted delivery strategies.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Low-grade fibromyxoid sarcoma (LGFMS) is a rare, slow-growing deceptively bland-looking fibroblastic sarcoma that usually develops in the deep soft tissues of the extremities. Development of the tumor in the abdomen, pelvis, and retroperitoneum is extremely rare. We analyzed 26 cases of LGFMS originating at these sites. The patients age ranged from 5 to 75 years (median, 39) with a slight female predominance (54%). Most tumors were located in the abdominal wall/abdomen or peritoneal tissues (n = 11; 42%), followed by the intestinal wall/mesentery (n = 7; 27%), pelvis (n = 4; 15%), retroperitoneum (n = 3; 11%) and the perirectal perineum (n = 1; 4%). Median tumor size was 10 cm (range, 1.9-68). Histologically, tumors were characterized by spindle cells with mild-to-moderate nuclear atypia arranged into short fascicles and whorling pattern within alternating variably myxoid to collagenous stroma rich in arcuate vessels with perivascular hyalinization. Eight tumors (31%) showed areas of sclerosing epithelioid fibrosarcoma (SEF), hence qualifying as hybrid LGFMS/SEF. Large collagen rosettes were observed in 8 tumors (31%). All 26 tumors (100%) were immunohistochemically diffusely positive for MUC4. FUS or EWSR1 gene rearrangements were identified in 9 of 9 (100%) tumors tested. One of 17 tumors showed variable nuclear Betacatenin reactivity (this case harbored EWSR1::CREB3L1 fusion). Of 15 patients with follow-up data (range, 6-84 months; median, 28.5), 2 (13%) died of disease, 3 (20%) developed metastases, and 2 (13%) had local tumor recurrence. In total, 7 (47%) patients experienced disease progression. Eight (53%) patients were disease-free at 5-84 months follow-up (median, 45). LGFMSs at these rare sites are similar to their extremity counterparts but likely peruse a more aggressive clinical course with adverse events being noted in half of patients at a median follow-up of 45 months, suggesting a possibly more unfavorable outcome at long-term.© 2026. The Author(s).
Microarray and Next Generation Sequencing studies offer insight into gene regulation in Parkinson's disease (PD). However, analysing vast numbers of genes can make the interpretation of data difficult when considering the platforms and techniques used across different studies. In this study, transcript expression, restricted to genes related to G-protein coupled receptors, activating agonists, agonist precursors, synthesis enzymes and transduction processes, as well as stress-related chaperones and solute carriers, was assessed across nine microarray platforms and two RNAseq studies of the substantia nigra (nigral volume). Changes in gene expression associated with PD were assessed by differential expression analysis while RNAseq studies were also used to calculate transcript per million values for each of the genes within the nigral volume. This analysis showed extensive changes in nigral volume signalling for several robustly expressed signal-related transcripts including tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), WNT signalling components (SFRP1, RSPO2 and DKK3), Kallikrein Related Peptidase 6 (KLK6), neurexins (NRXN1, NRXN3), prostaglandin synthases (PTGES2, PTGES3) and fractalkine (CX3CL1). The nigral volume signalling ligand data was then cross-referenced to the most abundant G-protein coupled receptor and signal transduction transcripts in the pigmented neurons using two RNAseq and two microarray studies. There were 32 significant changes in G-protein coupled receptor and associated signalling genes in pigmented neurons from PD tissue. Of these, 30 genes were upregulated. Analysis of the transcription factors likely regulating the 30 upregulated genes indicates a stimulation of cell stress pathways, particularly the JNK-MAP kinase pathway. Following this pathway back to changes in nigral signalling transcripts indicates that deficits in at least two autocrine/paracrine signalling systems; dopamine, via Gαo-coupled dopamine D2 receptors and Dickkopf-3 (DKK3) appear likely to contribute to pigmented neuron stress in PD.Copyright: © 2026 John M. Haynes. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Understanding how skeletal muscle responds to weight loss is crucial for developing targeted strategies to manage obesity and promote sustained improvement in metabolic health. Here, we investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying skeletal muscle reprogramming of gene expression and metabolic activity following Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB).Forty-one women were studied before and one year after RYGB surgery. We leveraged multi-omics (DNA methylomics and transcriptomics) and machine learning approaches to complement muscle metabolic analyses and clinical data to identify mechanisms underlying RYGB-induced muscle metabolic reprogramming.RYGB markedly decreased body weight and fat mass and improved metabolic health. Integrative analysis of vastus lateralis muscle identified 8233 genes with differentially methylated regions and 2173 differentially expressed genes post-RYGB surgery, of which 1197 genes were both differentially methylated and differentially expressed. Promoter hypomethylation was associated with the enhanced expression of transcription factors involved in skeletal muscle development and ribosomal subunits. In contrast, expression of genes encoding mitochondrial proteins decreased despite increases in mitochondrial content and enhanced mitochondrial function in skeletal muscle post-RYGB. Pre-operative muscle OXPHOS capacity, and expression of skeletal muscle hypertrophy and differentiation genes MYOC and EHMT2 were associated with weight loss success.RYGB improves systemic metabolic health and induces sustained skeletal muscle bioenergetic reprogramming characterised by enhanced expression of genes involved in myogenesis and protein translation, but decreased expression of genes involved in mitochondrial metabolism, which may reflect improved mitochondrial quality and function. These findings advance our understanding of skeletal muscle metabolic responses to weight loss and of individual variability in metabolic phenotypes.Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR PJT183651-M-EH, 201709FDN-CEBA-116200-GRS), Diabetes Canada Investigator Award grant OG-3-22-5645-GS (GRS), J. Bruce Duncan Endowed Chair in Metabolic Diseases (GRS), Tier 1 Canada Research Chair in Mitochondrial Bioenergetics and Metabolic Health (M-EH), Tier 1 Canada Research Chair in Metabolic Diseases (GRS).Crown Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Glaucoma is characterized by progressive stiffening of the trabecular meshwork (TM), which is associated with elevated intraocular pressure and tissue dysfunction. Although substrate stiffness and mechanical stretch both regulate TM homeostasis, their combined effects remain poorly understood. Here, a hydrogel-integrated microfluidic platform is presented that enables simultaneous control of substrate stiffness, via tunable gelatin methacryloyl (GelMA) hydrogels, and equibiaxial quasi-static stretch, via hydraulic actuation. Finite element analysis validates the applied strain field, and optimized crosslinking ensures structural stability. As an initial demonstration, primary normal TM (nTM) and glaucomatous TM (gTM) cells were cultured under coupled stiffness and stretch conditions. The nTM cells modulated α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), myocilin (MYOC), matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP2), and collagen type I (COL1) with the imposed mechanical cues, whereas the gTM cells showed elevated α-SMA, reduced mechanical regulation of MMP2, and diminished stretch-mediated COL1 suppression, while retaining stiffness-dependent FAK phosphorylation and MYOC responses. These differences emerged primarily under combined stiff and stretched conditions, indicating that coupled mechanical cues can reveal candidate disease-relevant phenotypes not apparent under either cue alone. The platform resolves stiffness- and stretch-dependent responses in TM cells and provides a scalable basis for validating these responses across additional donors.
Diabetic wounds often result in non-healing chronic ulcers due to prolonged inflammation, oxidative stress and impaired tissue regeneration. Current hydrophilic wound dressings primarily function as absorption dressings and have limited tissue regeneration capabilities, leading to extended healing periods. Peptides have been identified as therapeutic macromolecules with several cellular modulatory functions. They possess cell adhesion, matrix formation, cell proliferation, angiogenesis and tissue regenerative properties that are essential for wound healing. Therefore, a novel fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl-substituted arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (FRGD) oligopeptide was co-incorporated with mesoporous silica into poloxamer 407/PEG 8000 hydrogel base in five formulations (F0-F4) intended to modulate the impaired regenerative microenvironment of diabetic wounds. Formulations were characterised for pH, texture, rheology, morphology, DSC and FT-IR, and the formulations were evaluated in streptozotocin-nicotinamide-induced diabetic Sprague Dawley rats with full-thickness dorsal excisional wounds using daily topical application for 15 days. Healing outcomes were assessed by wound closure measurements, histology, immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, qRT-PCR and ELISA. The hydrogels exhibited a near-physiological pH (7.26-7.33), suitable hardness (18.0-32.3 g) and a thermoreversible sol-gel transition, with apparent viscosity at low shear rising from ≈ 33.2 kPa·s at 25 °C to ≈ 47.0 kPa·s at 32 °C, indicating in situ gelation at skin temperature. In vivo, F4 formulation with FRGD oligopeptide significantly accelerated wound closure from day 6 onwards (p < 0.01), achieving near-complete re-epithelialisation by day 15 compared to the positive control. Histologically, F4 formulation-treated wounds showed continuous stratified epidermis, organised collagen alignment, hair-follicle regeneration and reduced inflammation. At the molecular level, F4 formulation significantly reduced Tgfb1 and Smad5, normalised Smad2 and reactivated the Wnt/β-catenin pathway (Wnt10a, Ctnnb1). Angiogenic (Vegfa, Pecam1, Hif1a) and ECM remodelling markers were restored, with enhanced COL1A1 deposition and CD31-positive neovascularisation. F4 formulation also suppressed pro-inflammatory mediators (Tnf, Il1b, Il6, Nfkb1) and elevated IL-10 at both gene and protein levels, indicating a reparative immune environment. Collectively, these findings indicate that the FRGD/mesoporous silica hydrogel can modulate the TGF-β/Smad and Wnt/β-catenin pathways and support tissue repair in a diabetic wound model. Long-term remodelling and scar-quantification studies are required to confirm accelerated healing.© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Congenital heart disease (CHD), which represents the most common type of human birth defect affecting approximately 1% of all live births globally, is a leading cause of substantial infant mortality and morbidity worldwide. Although aggregating evidence has convincingly suggested a strong genetic basis underpinning CHD, the inherited components underlying CHD in most cases remain indefinite. Hence, the current investigation aimed to identify and characterize novel genetic variations underlying CHD. A five-generation pedigree with patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) and another group of 174 index patients with CHD were enrolled. In addition, 218 unrelated non-CHD people were employed as controls. Clinical assessments, along with exome-sequencing and Sanger-sequencing examinations, were performed in the study participants. The functional effects of the detected variations in the SMAD5 gene, which encodes a transcription factor required for proper cardiovascular morphogenesis, were measured by dual-luciferase reporter assays. Two new SMAD5 variants, NM_005903.7: c.244 A > T; p.(Lys82*) and NM_005903.7: c.209G > T; p.(Arg70Ile), were detected in a heterozygous status in the PDA pedigree and one PDA case out of the 174 index patients affected with CHD, respectively. Neither of the two SMAD5 variations was observed in the 436 control chromosomes. Quantitative biochemical assays using dual-reporter genes revealed that the Lys82*- or Arg70Ile-mutant SMAD5 possessed diminished transactivation of NKX2.5, an established CHD-causative gene. Furthermore, the Lys82* or Arg70Ile variation nullified or significantly reduced the synergistic transactivation of ID2 between SMAD5 and BMP4, and both ID2 and BMP4 had been causally implicated in the pathogenesis underpinning CHD. The present findings indicate that SMAD5 haplo-insufficient variants contribute to PDA in humans, which sheds more light on the genetic architecture of PDA and implies a potential target for genetic counseling and individualized medicine of PDA in a subgroup of patients.© 2026. The Author(s).
To develop a mesoporous silica nanoparticle-based delivery system for 4-phenylbutyric acid (4-PBA) and evaluate its potential to alleviate endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and improve mutant myocilin (MYOC)-associated glaucoma.We synthesized hollow/snowflake-like mesoporous silica nanoparticles loaded with 4-PBA (mSiO₂-PBA) for drug loading and release. Cellular uptake and cytotoxicity were evaluated in human corneal epithelial cells (HCECs) and human trabecular meshwork cells (HTMCs). The effects of mSiO₂-PBA on mutant MYOC secretion and ER stress-associated proteins were assessed by Western blot analysis. In Tg-MYOCN450Y mice, ocular distribution of mSiO₂-PBA was examined by fluorescence imaging and high performance liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS/MS). Therapeutic efficacy was evaluated by intraocular pressure (IOP) measurements, immunofluorescence analysis of MYOC accumulation and ER stress-associated markers in trabecular meshwork tissue, and transmission electron microscopy (TEM).mSiO₂-PBA exhibited efficient cellular uptake and favorable biocompatibility in vitro. Treatment with mSiO₂-PBA enhanced mutant MYOC secretion and reduced ER stress-associated KDEL-positive proteins in HTMCs. Following topical administration, mSiO₂-PBA achieved ocular penetration and exposure in trabecular meshwork tissue. In Tg-MYOCN450Y mice, mSiO₂-PBA significantly reduced IOP, decreased mutant MYOC accumulation, and improved ER ultrastructural abnormalities in trabecular meshwork cells.mSiO₂-PBA represents a promising nanoparticle-based delivery platform for 4-PBA in MYOC-associated glaucoma. By promoting mutant MYOC secretion and alleviating ER stress, mSiO₂-PBA demonstrated therapeutic efficacy in vitro and in vivo, supporting its potential as a nanotherapeutic strategy for MYOC-associated glaucoma.© 2026. The Author(s).
To investigate the abnormal genotyping and its causes at the Amelogenin locus in male samples.A total of 23 647 blood samples from unrelated male individuals were analyzed using the STRtyper-21G kit, and 38 samples with abnormal Amelogenin locus were identified. These samples were retested and classified using GlobalFilerTM and PowerPlex® 21 kits. Additional sex chromosome STR genotyping and Sanger sequencing were performed for samples with abnormal genotypes. Sequence-tagged site (STS) testing was conducted for samples suspected of Amel-Y microdeletions.Among above 38 samples, except for Amelogenin locus, all samples showed normal male sex chromosome STR typing. The detection rate of abnormal genotyping was 0.161% (38/23 647), which were categorized into three major types. Among them, 30 cases had Amel-X deletion: 5 cases had C→T mutation at position 372; 2 cases had G→A mutation at position 293; 23 cases had A→G mutation at position 304. There were 2 cases of Amel-Y deletion: 1 case of insertion mutation of TTAA at position 387, and 1 case of microdeletion of the short arm containing Amel-Y. Six cases of abnormal Amel-X/Y peak ratios were identified: using the STRtyper-21G kit, the abnormalities appeared as low Amel-X with absent Amel-Y, normal Amel-X with absent Amel-Y, normal Amel-X with low Amel-Y, respectively. However, retesting with GlobalFilerTM and PowerPlex® 21 kits consistently showed normal Amel-X with low Amel-Y. The GlobalFilerTM profiling showed that the peak heights of Amel-Y were comparable to those of the Y-InDel and DYS391 markers, and no abnormalities were detected by sequencing.Amelogenin genotyping abnormalities occur at a measurable frequency in the population and are mainly associated with mutations, which can be categorized as Amel-X deletion, Amel-Y deletion, and Amel-X/Y peak ratio abnormality. Regarding normal Amel-X peaks with lower Amel-Y peaks, the possibility of mosaic loss of chromosome Y (mLOY) in samples, which is commonly observed in elderly males, should be considered and given attention.
Amelogenin (AMELX), the predominant extracellular enamel matrix protein, contains a single phosphorylation site at serine16 (S16). To investigate the functional significance of AMELX phosphorylation, we generated a knock-in (KI) mouse model (AmelxS16A ) in which S16 is substituted with alanine, preventing AMELX phosphorylation. These KI mice exhibited hypoplastic, hypomineralized enamel lacking a characteristic rod structure, demonstrating that AMELX phosphorylation is critical for dental enamel formation. Mineralization analysis revealed accelerated formation of carbonated hydroxyapatite (CHA) and rapid transformation of amorphous calcium phosphate to CHA during the secretory stage, resulting in enamel acidification. Based on these findings, we hypothesized that excessive acidity disrupts pH regulation in KI ameloblasts. To test this hypothesis, we examined the mRNA and protein expression of 3 carbonic anhydrases (CAs) involved in pH regulation: intracellular CA2, transmembrane CA9, and extracellular CA6, localized their distribution; and measured total CA enzymatic activity in enamel organs (EOs) and matrix lysates. Additionally, we assessed the mRNA expression of 4 ion transporters (Slc4a4, Slc24a3, Slc24a4, and Cftr) involved in pH regulation. Our results revealed significant downregulation of all studied genes during the secretory stage in KI vs WT mice, with a general trend of reduced expression during maturation. Consistent with these findings, CA activity was markedly lower in KI EOs. Collectively, these data indicate that AMELX phosphorylation supports ameloblast function by stabilizing enamel pH during the secretory stage of amelogenesis through its capacity to slow the rate of enamel mineral formation and prevent enamel acidification. In the absence of AMELX phosphorylation, excessive acidity overwhelms ameloblast pH regulation, leading to dysregulation and defective enamel. This study provides evidence that the loss of biological control over extracellular mineralization can lead to cellular disruption, highlighting a critical link between protein phosphorylation, mineralization kinetics, and pH regulation.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.
Aortic dissection (AD) is a life-threatening cardiovascular emergency characterized by acute aortic wall injury and high mortality, yet effective pharmacological therapies remain limited. Macrophage infiltration and vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) phenotypic switching from contractile to synthetic states are central to AD pathogenesis, but the mechanisms mediating intercellular communication between macrophages and VSMCs are incompletely understood. Emerging evidence suggests that exosomes can transfer bioactive miRNAs between cells; however, whether M1 macrophage-derived exosomes promote AD progression through specific miRNA delivery and whether they can be engineered for therapeutic intervention have not been clearly defined. In this study, we demonstrate that M1 macrophage-derived exosomes deliver miR-155-5p to VSMCs, where it targets and suppresses SMAD5, activates the RHOA/ROCK pathway, and drives contractile-to-synthetic phenotypic switching, thereby accelerating AD progression. Through comprehensive physicochemical characterization, including TEM, NTA, Zeta potential, and stability assays, we show that M0 macrophage-derived exosomes can be successfully engineered to load Antago-miR-155-5p via electroporation with favorable encapsulation efficiency and colloidal stability. In a BAPN-induced mouse model of AD, intravenous administration of Antago-miR-155-5p-loaded M0-Exos significantly improved survival, reduced AD incidence and aortic dilation, and restored VSMC contractile markers. Biodistribution studies using DiR and CY5 labeling confirmed efficient accumulation of these engineered exosomes in the injured aorta, while macrophage depletion and rescue experiments validated the pathogenic role of M1-derived exosomes. These findings identify a novel M1 exosome-miR-155-5p-SMAD5/RHOA/ROCK signaling axis in AD and establish engineered M0 macrophage-derived exosomes as a promising bioactive material platform for targeted miRNA therapy in aortic dissection.© 2026 The Authors.
Vasculogenic mimicry (VM) in breast cancer is recognized as an important non-endothelium-dependent vascular mechanism that promotes tumor invasiveness, survival, and metastatic potential; however, effective and specific intervention strategies remain limited. In this study, we innovatively constructed a nanodelivery system based on hybrid membranes derived from bacterial outer membrane vesicles and breast cancer cell membranes, termed mTOMV, and loaded it with the natural flavonoid isoliquiritigenin (ISL) to enhance targeted antitumor activity. ISL@mTOMV nanoparticles exhibited a uniform spherical morphology, favorable stability, and good biocompatibility. In vitro experiments demonstrated that ISL@mTOMV significantly inhibited the proliferation, migration, and invasion of MDA-MB-231 and MCF-7 breast cancer cells, while promoting tumor cell apoptosis. Mechanistically, ISL@mTOMV markedly reduced the expression of ACLY, H3K27ac, and SMAD5 and suppressed the activity of the TGF-β/SMAD signaling pathway. In vivo experiments further confirmed that ISL@mTOMV inhibited ACLY-mediated H3K27 acetylation, attenuated SMAD5 transcriptional activation, and blocked TGF-β/SMAD signaling, thereby significantly suppressing VM formation in breast cancer. Collectively, this study proposes a highly biocompatible and tumor-targeted nanotherapeutic strategy, providing a new technical approach and potential translational value for VM intervention in breast cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
BackgroundThe main aim of this study is to identify prognostic biomarkers through integrating bioinformatics analysis in gastric cancer, which is a significant global health challenge.MethodsGene expression datasets related to blood, tissue, and saliva in gastric cancer were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database and analyzed. The bioinformatics approaches included the identification of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and enrichment analysis, as well as Kaplan-Meier Plotter survival analysis. The DEGs were also validated through The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. Additionally, DEGs-associated lncRNAs and microRNAs were identified. Subsequently, Tumor and Immune System Interaction Database (TISIDB) was utilized to examine the correlation of the genes of interest with immune and molecular subtypes.ResultsTwenty-six common DEGs were identified across blood, tissue, and saliva samples. Among them, 17 genes showed significant expression based on TCGA data. RAB23, LOX, ELL2, ELK3, CENPF, CD44, ANP32E, AKR1C2, and SMAD5 displayed significant association with patient survival. Particularly, ELL2 exhibit decreased expression in all specimens. The results indicated that ELL2 has a significant correlation with the immune system. The ELL2 gene regulates immune cell functions in gastric cancer, potentially influencing cancer immune responses, and tumor progression.ConclusionELL2 downregulated expression and its correlation with survival across blood, tissue, and saliva samples using bioinformatics analysis underscores the necessity of more investigation to fully comprehend its function in cancer immunology.
Histone lactylation is an epigenetic modification triggered by lactate produced during glycolysis. In cancer, histone lactylation can coordinate metabolic and epigenetic states to promote tumor development and progression. Here, we identified circ2891 as a driver of metabolic reprogramming and histone lactylation in colorectal cancer (CRC). In patients, circ2891 was aberrantly upregulated in tumors and correlated with poor outcomes. Elevated circ2891 potentiated aerobic glycolysis and lactate production in CRC cells, supporting enhanced cell proliferation and tumor growth. Mechanistically, circ2891 specifically interacted with the m6A reader FXR1 and facilitated its phase separation, which stabilized PGK1 and ENO1 mRNAs by enhancing the recognition of their m6A modification sites. Consequently, elevated PGK1 and ENO1 led to increased aerobic glycolysis and drove histone lactylation, thereby transcriptionally activating the RNA helicase DDX21 to promote CRC progression. Simultaneously targeting circ2891 and histone lactylation suppressed patient-derived organoid and xenograft tumor growth. Together, these findings show that circ2891 promotes CRC by stabilizing PGK1/ENO1 via phase separation of FXR1, boosting glycolysis and histone lactylation to activate expression of DDX21. Targeting circ2891 offers a promising therapeutic strategy enhancing clinical outcomes.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42527514
Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is a malignancy that faces challenges such as chemotherapy resistance and side effects. There is an urgent need for effective, low-toxicity compounds to treat OSCC. Here, we examined whether quercetin induces ferroptosis in OSCC cells and explored the potential molecular mechanisms.The role of LGR4/NF-κB/GPX4 in OSCC cells (CAL27 and SCC9) was studied through gene overexpression or RNA interference. Additionally, OSCC cell lines were treated with quercetin to examine its effects and underlying mechanisms in OSCC.Quercetin dose-dependently reduced the viability of OSCC cells, while co-treatment with the ferroptosis inhibitor liproxstatin-1 significantly counteracted quercetin-induced cell death. RNA-seq analysis showed that quercetin's inhibitory effect on OSCC cells is linked to ferroptosis induction. Quercetin concentration-dependently decreased GPX4 expression in OSCC cells by suppressing the LGR4/NF-κB signaling pathway. LGR4-induced ferroptosis inhibition was counteracted by either quercetin or an NF-κB inhibitor. Mechanistically, LGR4 could induce upregulation of IKKβ, leading to IκBα ubiquitination and degradation, which promotes NF-κB activation and GPX4 transcription, ultimately inhibiting ferroptosis in OSCC cells.Our findings indicate that ferroptosis may play a role in quercetin's anti-OSCC activity by blocking the LGR4/NF-κB/GPX4 axis, which supports the potential use of quercetin as a therapeutic agent for OSCC.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Zhang, Gao, Shao and Chen.
Gastric adenocarcinoma lacks robust circulating biomarkers and tractable targets. We assessed whether genetically predicted plasma protein levels influence disease risk and sought druggable candidates using a proteome-wide Mendelian randomization (MR) framework.We integrated deCODE plasma protein quantitative trait loci (pQTLs) with gastric cancer GWAS in a proteome-wide two-sample MR framework to identify circulating proteins causally associated with gastric cancer. Protein-protein interaction topology was used to prioritize eight hub proteins, which were further evaluated in an eight-gene artificial neural network (ANN) classifier. Single-cell and spatial transcriptomics, together with multiplex immunofluorescence, mapped hub-gene expression across tumor, stromal and immune compartments. Finally, we focused on TGFB3 as a genetically and spatially prioritized target, combining in silico ligand screening with in vitro perturbation of the TGFB3-PI3K survival axis using proflavine hemisulfate as a chemical probe.Proteome-wide MR highlighted 29 circulating proteins with putative causal effects on gastric cancer, of which eight (ERBB3, LGR4, BMP4, CD248, MGP, TGFB3, GRP and ETS2) occupied central positions in the interaction network. The corresponding eight-gene ANN showed robust discrimination between gastric cancer and non-tumor tissue across multiple cohorts and improved diagnostic performance beyond clinical variables. Single-cell, spatial and multiplex immunofluorescence analyses localized these hubs to epithelial, fibroblast and endothelial compartments, with TGFB3 enriched at tumor-stroma interfaces and associated with poor survival. Virtual screening nominated TGFB3-binding ligands and proflavine hemisulfate formed a stable complex with TGFB3 in silico while attenuating TGFB3-driven proliferation, migration and PI3K-dependent survival signaling in AGS cells.Our proteome-wide MR framework identifies genetically supported circulating proteins that contribute to gastric carcinogenesis and converges on TGFB3 as a tractable stromal signaling axis. Proflavine hemisulfate functions as a mechanistically informative chemical probe of TGFB3-PI3K survival signaling in gastric cancer cells, providing a starting scaffold for future TGFB3-targeted therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2026 Zhao, Mao, Xu, Zhou, Liang, Han, Zhang, Hong, Hu and Wu.
Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1), an oncogenic retrovirus, uses human tRNAPro to prime reverse transcription. How tRNAPro is annealed to the primer-binding site (PBS), which is embedded in a stable hairpin structure in the genomic RNA, remains unclear. In contrast to human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) nucleocapsid (NC) protein, which robustly chaperones transfer RNA (tRNA) annealing to the HIV-1 PBS, HTLV-1 NC protein displays very weak chaperone function. Recombinantly-purified HTLV-1 Gag was only slightly more effective at chaperoning the annealing of tRNAPro to the PBS than NC protein. To identify potential HTLV-1 Gag interacting co-chaperones in cells, we performed affinity tagging/purification-mass spectrometry. Two significant hits, ribosomal protein L7 (RPL7) and DDX21, were validated by reciprocal co-IP studies in cells. Domain mapping revealed that HTLV-1 Gag interacts with RPL7 and DDX21 through the zinc fingers of NC protein in an RNA-independent fashion. Both RPL7 and DDX21 are packaged into virions, and each protein alone was more effective than HTLV-1 Gag at annealing tRNAPro to the PBS. Further synergistic effects were observed for the Gag/RPL7/DDX21 combination in overcoming structural constraints at the PBS to promote tRNAPro annealing. The mechanistic insights gained from these studies may be exploited for the development of new therapeutic strategies aimed at targeting HTLV-1 RT.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Monocyte-derived macrophages play a significant role in the initiation and progression of atherosclerosis by transforming into lipid-laden foam cells and regulating vascular inflammation. However, the molecular mechanisms that regulate macrophage lipid accumulation, phenotype, efferocytic capacity, and atherosclerosis are incompletely understood. Our preliminary studies revealed increased expression of LGR4 (leucine-rich repeat-containing G protein-coupled receptor 4) in human atherosclerotic arteries. Additional experiments demonstrated increased LGR4 levels in atherogenic oxidized low-density lipoprotein-treated macrophages. However, the macrophage-specific role of LGR4 in atherogenesis has never been investigated.To investigate the role of myeloid cell Lgr4 in atherosclerosis development, myeloid cell-specific Lgr4 knockout (Lgr4f/fLysM Cre+/-, Lgr4ΔM) and littermate control Lgr4f/f (Lgr4WT) mice were injected intraperitoneally with adeno-associated viral vector (serotype 8) for hPCSK9 and fed a Western diet for 16 weeks. Various in vitro cell-based assays, molecular biology techniques, and immunohistological approaches were used to evaluate the functional roles of macrophage Lgr4 and underlying signaling mechanisms.Oil red O staining of whole aortas and aortic root sections demonstrated reduced atherosclerosis in Lgr4ΔM mice compared with sex-matched Lgr4WT mice. However, no changes in circulating monocyte frequencies were detected. Histochemical staining performed on aortic root sections revealed smaller necrotic cores and higher collagen content in Lgr4ΔM mice. Additionally, Lgr4ΔM mice exhibited lower fat mass and blood glucose levels, while plasma total cholesterol was comparable to that of control mice. Further in vitro and ex vivo studies demonstrated reduced lipid accumulation, enhanced efferocytic capacity, a suppressed proinflammatory phenotype, and attenuated expression of different low-density lipoprotein uptake genes in Lgr4-deficient macrophages. Moreover, Lgr4 knockout macrophages displayed increased cholesterol efflux capacity and reduced activation of oxidized low-density lipoprotein-induced Wnt (Wingless-related integration site)/β-catenin signaling.These findings suggest that myeloid cell Lgr4 contributes to atherosclerotic lesion formation via stimulating macrophage lipid accumulation, impairing efferocytic capacity, and promoting a proinflammatory phenotype. Collectively, these results identify macrophage LGR4 as a novel therapeutic target for atherosclerosis.
Hypoxia is a hallmark of solid tumors, and hypoxia-inducible factors (HIFs) are the master transcription factors that allow cancer cells to sense and cope with a hypoxic microenvironment. However, the mechanism by which the HIF-mediated transcription process is precisely regulated remains poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that the RNA helicase DDX21 facilitates breast tumor growth and metastasis by triggering HIF-mediated transcription elongation. Mechanistically, DDX21 induces the release of CDK9 from the 7SK complex, enhancing the interaction between CDK9 and HIF-1α. This interaction stimulates the transcription elongation of HIF target genes by elevating the enrichment of phosphorylated RNA Polymerase II at serine 2 on the hypoxia-response element of HIF target genes. These target genes, including IGFBP1, WNT1, WNT10B, TGFB1, PCK1, and SLC2A3, are critical for cancer cell proliferation and metastasis. Consequently, DDX21 enhances breast cancer cell proliferation, survival, migration, and invasion in vitro, and promotes breast tumor growth and metastasis in vivo. Importantly, DDX21 is highly expressed in breast tumors and correlates negatively with clinical outcomes in breast cancer patients. Our study reveals a novel mechanism of HIF regulation and positions DDX21 as a potential therapeutic target for disrupting the hypoxic adaptation machinery in breast cancer.© 2026 The Author(s). MedComm published by Sichuan International Medical Exchange & Promotion Association (SCIMEA) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Bone metastasis is a severe complication of advanced cancers, disrupting bone remodeling by hijacking the RANK/RANKL/OPG axis, which leads to excessive osteoclast activation and bone resorption. Current therapies, such as bisphosphonates and denosumab, offer limited survival benefits and carry significant safety risks, highlighting the need for novel agents that effectively inhibit osteolytic progression.This study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic potential of a recombinant extracellular domain of leucine-rich repeat-containing G-protein coupled receptor 4 (rLGR4-ECD), produced in CHO cells, to inhibit RANKL signaling, suppress osteoclastogenesis, and prevent bone metastasis in preclinical models.The human LGR4-ECD (residues 25-540) was cloned into the pcDNA4/TO vector and expressed in CHO-K1 cells. Stable monoclonal lines were established, and recombinant protein was purified via Ni-NTA affinity chromatography. Binding affinity to RANKL and RSPO4 was assessed by co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP). In vitro, bone marrow-derived monocytes were treated with RANKL and varying concentrations of rLGR4-ECD (0-80 ng/mL), and osteoclast formation was evaluated by TRAP staining, qPCR, and Western blotting for osteoclast markers. For in vivo evaluation, a breast cancer bone metastasis model was established by intracardiac injection of 4 T1-Luc cells into BALB/c mice. Mice were treated daily with 1 mg/kg rLGR4-ECD or PBS via tail vein injection. Metastatic burden was monitored by bioluminescence imaging, osteoclast activity by TRAP staining of calvaria, and gene expression in bone tissue by qPCR. Survival was analyzed using Kaplan-Meier curves.rLGR4-ECD was successfully expressed and purified with over 95% purity and a yield of 2.38 mg/L. It bound specifically to RANKL and RSPO4 in co-IP assays. In vitro, rLGR4-ECD dose-dependently inhibited osteoclast formation, with near-complete suppression at 80 ng/mL (IC50 = 42.38 ng/mL). Expression of osteoclast genes Acp5, Ctsk, and Nfatc1 was reduced by 91.4% (***p < 0.001), 87.1% (***p < 0.001), and 81.2% (***p < 0.001), respectively, at 80 ng/mL. Protein levels of TRAP, Cathepsin K, and NFATc1 were also significantly suppressed. In vivo, rLGR4-ECD treatment reduced metastatic burden by 67.3% (***p < 0.001) and decreased osteoclast surface per bone surface by 56.2% (***p < 0.001). Gene expression in bone tissue showed reductions of 71.3% for Acp5 (***p < 0.001), 40.1% for Ctsk (***p < 0.001), and 86.5% for Nfatc1 (***p < 0.001). rLGR4-ECD median survival by 41.7% (12 vs. 17 days) without affecting lung metastasis.rLGR4-ECD effectively inhibits RANKL-induced osteoclastogenesis and reduces bone metastasis burden through specific suppression of osteoclast activity, leading to improved survival in a preclinical model. Its excellent efficacy and manufacturability support its potential as a novel therapeutic agent for bone metastatic disease.© 2026 The Author(s).
Colorectal cancer remains a leading cause of cancer death globally, creating an urgent need for novel therapeutic targets. Here, we investigate the expression, function, and regulatory mechanism of GTP-binding protein 4 (GTPBP4) in colorectal cancer. Analysis of The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) colon adenocarcinoma (COAD) dataset showed that GTPBP4 is upregulated in colorectal tumors relative to normal mucosa, and high GTPBP4 expression correlates significantly with reduced overall survival. We observed a strong positive correlation between GTPBP4 and MYC expression across the cohort, leading us to generate stable GTPBP4-knockdown HCT116 and SW620 cells, as well as isogenic rescue lines overexpressing MYC. GTPBP4 depletion markedly suppressed cell proliferation, as determined by Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) incorporation, and clonogenic assays. Mechanistically, GTPBP4 knockdown reduced both MYC mRNA and protein levels, accelerated MYC protein turnover, and increased MYC ubiquitination (all P < 0.05), indicating dual transcriptional and post-translational regulation. Concurrently, GTPBP4 silencing downregulated key glycolytic enzymes and decreased glycolytic flux, effects that were fully reversed by ectopic MYC expression (P < 0.05). In a subcutaneous xenograft model, GTPBP4 knockdown significantly inhibited tumor growth, reduced MYC and Ki-67 proliferation antigen (Ki-67) expression, and blunted glycolytic metabolism (P < 0.01 or P < 0.05). Co-expression of MYC restored all these parameters and reversed the enhanced MYC ubiquitination (P < 0.05). Collectively, our data demonstrate that GTPBP4 sustains MYC expression through dual mechanisms to drive glycolytic reprogramming and colorectal cancer growth, identifying the GTPBP4/MYC/glycolysis axis as a promising therapeutic target.AJCR Copyright © 2026.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567394 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42543141 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42534835 is a review article
Alopecia areata (AA) is an autoimmune disorder characterized by oxidative stress-induced dysfunction of hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs). Nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN), a precursor of NAD+, exhibits antioxidant properties, but its role and mechanism in AA remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the therapeutic potential of NMN and its underlying mechanism. Scalp tissues from AA patients and healthy controls were collected, and HFSCs were isolated. An in vitro oxidative stress model was established using H2O2. Cell viability, apoptosis, migration, oxidative stress and glutamine metabolism were assessed. Molecular mechanisms were investigated via gene knockdown (sh-SIRT7, sh-GLS1) and rescue experiments with an acetylation-resistant GLS1 mutant (GLS1-MUT). An in vivo mouse model of H2O2-induced hair follicle damage was utilized for validation. The results showed that NMN (2 mM) significantly enhanced the viability, migration, and differentiation capacity of both AA-derived and H2O2-induced HFSCs, while cell apoptosis and oxidative stress were repressed. NMN also promoted glutamine metabolism with increased GSH, glutamate, glutamine and NAD+ levels, as well as elevated GPx and GLS1 activities. Mechanistically, SIRT7 expression was downregulated in AA. NMN restored SIRT7 expression and activity, leading to the deacetylation and activation of GLS1. Knockdown of SIRT7 or GLS1 abolished NMN's protective effects, which were rescued by GLS1-MUT, establishing a linear pathway. In vivo, NMN treatment alleviated H2O2-induced hair follicle damage, promoted regeneration, and preserved SIRT7 expression in the stem cell niche. In conclusion, NMN alleviates oxidative stress and improves HFSC function in AA by activating the SIRT7-GLS1 axis and enhancing glutamine metabolism, revealing a novel therapeutic target for AA.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42502934 is a review article
A lectin from Pinellia ternata tubers (PTL, 12 kDa) with potent pro-inflammatory activity binds to the plasma membrane and translocates into the cytoplasm. However, its cellular entry route and inflammatory toxicity mechanisms remain unclear. Here, confocal microscopy showed that fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-labeled PTL (50 μg/mL) accumulated on the cell surface and was endocytosed by RAW264.7 cells time-dependently. Pharmacological inhibition revealed that PTL uptake was mediated by the mannose receptor C-type 2 (MRC2) and predominantly via clathrin-mediated endocytosis. After endocytosis, PTL translocated to mitochondria with marked co-localization, inducing mitochondrial damage characterized by membrane potential dissipation, calcium overload, and excessive mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (mtROS) generation. These alterations promoted intracellular ROS accumulation and amplified inflammatory responses. Co-immunoprecipitation with mass spectrometry identified ATP synthase subunit beta (ATP5B) as a mitochondrial interacting protein of PTL. Their interaction was validated by molecular docking, co-localization, and microscale thermophoresis (MST). ATP5B knockdown markedly attenuated PTL (50 μg/mL)-induced ROS production, inflammatory cytokine expression, and mitochondrial injury, indicating ATP5B is a critical mediator of PTL's inflammatory toxicity. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that PTL induces mitochondrial damage and pro-inflammatory responses in RAW264.7 cells through MRC2-mediated, clathrin-dependent endocytosis and subsequent ATP5B interaction. This study establishes a mechanistic link between lectin endocytosis, mitochondrial targeting, and inflammatory toxicity, providing new insight into plant lectin-mediated immunotoxicity.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a prevalent malignancy with a complex genetic basis. Recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified a susceptibility locus at 3p21.31, however, the functional SNP(s) underlying the association between the 3p21.31 region and CRC remain to be elucidated. In this study, we identified rs2101247 as the potential functional SNP and further demonstrated that rs2101247 is significantly associated with the expression of the nearby long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) RP11-708J19.2 (ENSG00000271161.1). Functional experiments showed that RP11-708J19.2 is upregulated in CRC tumor tissues, and its knockdown reduces cell viability while promoting apoptosis in SW1116 and HCT116 cell lines. Mechanistically, RP11-708J19.2 interacts directly with the deacetylase SIRT7, modulating histone H3K18 acetylation (H3K18ac). Specifically, RP11-708J19.2 knockdown leads to a significant upregulation of H3K18ac levels, implicating a SIRT7-mediated epigenetic pathway in CRC progression. Our findings elucidate a novel functional SNP-lncRNA axis that contributes to CRC pathogenesis, providing potential biomarkers for early detection and therapeutic targets for intervention.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42488706 is a review article
Protein succinylation, an emerging post-translational modification (PTM), assumes a crucial role in the initiation and advancement of inflammatory diseases. Ferroptosis, propelled by lethal lipid peroxidation, is intricately associated with the pathogenesis of inflammation. Targeting ferroptosis has recently emerged as a promising therapeutic approach for acute lung injury (ALI). Nevertheless, the crosstalk between protein succinylation and ferroptosis in the regulation of ALI remains ambiguous. FOXO4, a key regulator of oxidative stress responses, is dynamically regulated by various PTMs. We identify SIRT7 as the desuccinylase essential for FOXO4 activation and nuclear localization. Mechanistically, SIRT7 desuccinylates FOXO4 at lysine 139 (K139), thereby inhibiting MDM2-mediated K48-linked polyubiquitination, which stabilizes FOXO4 and maintains FOXO4 nuclear retention. This consequently upregulates glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) and suppresses lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced ferroptosis in alveolar epithelial cells (AECs). In vivo experiments demonstrated that SIRT7-knockout (SIRT7-KO) exacerbates LPS-induced ALI. Furthermore, the delivery of a FOXO4-K139R (mimicking desuccinylation) via adeno-associated virus 6 (AAV6) significantly alleviated pulmonary ferroptosis and histopathological damage in SIRT7-KO mice. Notably, pharmacological activation of SIRT7 with trilobatin (TLB) significantly attenuates ALI in LPS-challenged mice, establishing a potential therapeutic pathway for this pathology. Collectively, these findings delineate a previously unrecognized mechanism through which SIRT7 governs the nuclear retention and activation of FOXO4 via desuccinylation, establishing the SIRT7-FOXO4 axis as a potential therapeutic target and theoretical basis for ALI intervention.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Breast cancer (BRCA) is a major health threat to women and often carries a poor prognosis. Succinylation is closely associated with cancer metabolism; however, research on succinylation-related genes (SRGs) in BRCA remains relatively limited. This study first identified differentially expressed genes between normal and BRCA groups in the TCGA cohort and intersected them with known SRGs to obtain differentially expressed SRGs (DE-SRGs). Univariate Cox and LASSO Cox regression analyses were used to screen the DE-SRGs, followed by multivariate Cox regression to develop a succinylation-related prognostic model. Subsequently, patients were categorized into high and low succinylation-related risk score (SRS) groups according to the median score. Two groups were then compared for differences in immune microenvironment characteristics, somatic mutation burden, and drug sensitivity. Additionally, the expression levels of the signature genes were validated via qRT-PCR. This study developed a prognostic risk model for BRCA patients based on 13 SRGs (ACOT4, ALDH3A1, B3GALT1, IFNG, MMP1, NFKB2, PCSK6, PTK2, SERPINA1, SHMT2, SIRT7, ST3GAL1, and SUCLA2). A markedly elevated infiltration of immune cells was observed in the low-SRS group, including B cells, Mast cells, and Macrophages. The tumor mutational burden was notably lower in the low-SRS group. Drug sensitivity analysis suggested that the high-SRS BRCA patients might be more susceptible to FTI-277 and GNF-2. qRT‑PCR results showed that ACOT4, IFNG, MMP1, NFKB2, PCSK6, PTK2, SHMT2, SIRT7, and ST3GAL1 were significantly upregulated in human BRCA cell lines, while ALDH3A1, B3GALT1, and SUCLA2 were significantly downregulated. Our findings highlight the prognostic value of SRGs in BRCA, laying the groundwork for its potential use in guiding personalized treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
LIMD1, a tumour suppressor located at chromosome 3p21.3, is frequently lost in non-small-cell lung cancer, yet its role in tumour-immune interactions remains unclear. Here, we show LIMD1 loss increases PD-L1 protein abundance across multiple lung cancer models and primary airway epithelial cells. Mechanistically, LIMD1 restrains PD-L1 through post-transcriptional and post-translational mechanisms. LIMD1 loss can relieve microRNA-mediated repression of the CD274 3'UTR, and LIMD1 loss can also disrupt ARIH1-PD-L1 association, reduce PD-L1 polyubiquitination, and stabilise PD-L1 protein without a commensurate increase in CD274 transcript levels in isogenic models. Functionally, LIMD1-deficient tumour cells suppress CD8+ T-cell activation in vitro and show enhanced sensitivity to PD-1/PD-L1 blockade in tumour-PBMC co-culture assays. Analysis of TRACERx non-small-cell lung cancer samples revealed clonal LIMD1 loss of heterozygosity in ∼40% of lung adenocarcinomas, where it is associated with increased tumour PD-L1 expression. Across independent patient cohorts receiving immune checkpoint blockade, low LIMD1 expression was enriched among responders. We identify LIMD1 as a tumour-intrinsic regulator of PD-L1 turnover and suggest that tumour suppressor loss can shape immune checkpoint biology and influence immunotherapy response.© 2026 Shah et al.
Gastric cancer (GC) derives limited benefit from immune checkpoint blockade (ICB), in part due to stromal-mediated immune suppression. To investigate the underlying mechanisms, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing on 14 GC specimens from patients treated with neoadjuvant ICB. We identified a distinct subset of TRPA1+ cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) maintained by tumor-derived midkine (MDK) through LEF1-dependent transcription under ICB pressure. These TRPA1+ CAFs drive immunosuppression by secreting WNT5A, which polarizes SPP1+ macrophages and subsequently promotes the accumulation of CD25 + FOXP3+ regulatory T cells (Tregs) in the tumor microenvironment. Disrupting this stromal-myeloid-lymphoid axis via WNT5A inhibition or SPP1+ macrophage depletion reduced Treg infiltration and enhanced the antitumor efficacy of anti-PD-L1 therapy in vivo. Our study unveils an MDK-TRPA1 + CAF-mediated mechanism of ICB resistance in GC and highlights the WNT5A-SPP1+ macrophage pathway as a promising target to overcome immunotherapy resistance.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Sepsis is a systemic inflammatory response caused by pathogen infection, leading tomultiple organ failure. This study aims to identify potential sepsis biomarkers.Differentially expressed genes in sepsis-related datasets GSE57065 and GSE95233 were analyzed, and sepsis-associated genes were identified using weighted gene co-expression network analysis. Protein-protein interaction network was further analyzed to screen the core genes, which were verified using external datasets GSE65682 and GSE9960. An in vitro septic cardiomyopathy model was constructed by inducing H9c2 cells with lipopolysaccharide (LPS).TCF7, LEF1, FYN, IL7R, CD3E, SKAP1 and FCER1G showed significant differences between sepsis and the control samples, and were related with immune cells infiltration. Sepsis patients with high expression of SKAP1, FYN and CD3E had better prognosis. Overexpression of SKAP1, FYN and CD3E could significantly inhibit the levels of inflammatory counterfactors TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-8 induced by LPS, and reduce the apoptosis rate of H9c2 cardiomyocytes, the ratio of cleaved caspase 3 and Bax/Bcl-2. Additionally, SKAP1 and FYN exerted these biological functions partially via activating PI3K/Akt pathway.SKAP1, FYN and CD3E are potential sepsis biomarkers associsted with favorable prognosis, protecting against inflammation and cardiomyocyte apoptosis.
We examined extracellular vesicle (EV) protein alterations after burn injury to elucidate molecular pathways linking immune-neural communication and the pathophysiology of burns.Severe burn injury triggers widespread inflammation and metabolic stress with downstream consequences. EVs are essential mediators of cell-to-cell communication and protein transport for regulating inflammation, metabolism, and neuronal signaling that may reflect burn-related alterations.Plasma EVs from 37 adult burn patients (≥15% total body surface area burn [TBSA]) and 21 nonburn controls were analyzed. An age-restricted subcohort (<40 years) was additionally evaluated to minimize potential confounding of age. A subset (4 per group) underwent cell type-specific EV enrichment. Proteomic profiling and functional enrichment analyses, including gene ontology (GO) over-representation analysis (ORA), Reactome gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), and Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA), were performed to identify differential protein abundance and associated biological pathways.Burn injury produced distinct alterations in EV proteomic profiles. Among 919 detected proteins, 326 were decreased and 593 were increased. The 5 most significant proteins (adjusted P -value<0.05) distinguishing burns from controls were CRP, ITGA11, MYH9, CALR, and ANTXR2. GO ORA, Reactome GSEA, and IPA consistently identified enrichment of immune activation and inflammatory regulation pathways, including immune cell chemotaxis, acute-phase signaling, cytokine signaling, complement activation, coagulation, and cellular stress pathways. Similar inflammatory pathway enrichment persisted in the age-restricted subcohort. Exploratory analyses of cell type-enriched EVs demonstrated distinct proteomic trends across immune and neuronal EV populations, although no subtype-specific proteins exhibited statistical significance.Burn injury profoundly alters EV cargo across general, immune, and neuronal types, reflecting proinflammatory and neuroimmune-associated signaling. This coordinated EV remodeling may reflect the hyperinflammatory responses, altered healing, and downstream biological pathway alterations. EV-based biomarkers may enable improved diagnostic and therapeutic strategies to mitigate dysregulated immune and healing responses in burn patients.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Background: The metastatic dissemination of melanoma involves adhesion of circulating tumor cells within organ-specific vascular beds; however, the relative contribution of the endothelial environment versus that of the melanoma-intrinsic molecular state remains unclear. Materials and Methods: We quantified the in vitro adhesion of primary (n = 5) and metastatic (n = 3) melanoma cell lines to human hepatic, brain, and pulmonary endothelial cells under co-culture conditions, and we profiled the expression of 86 adhesion- and extracellular-matrix-related genes in melanoma and endothelial cells. Results: Adhesion was highest for the hepatic endothelium, intermediate for the pulmonary endothelium, and lowest for the brain endothelium. This endothelial preference was conserved in both primary and metastatic melanoma cells, though metastatic cells exhibited higher absolute adhesion. The linear mixed-effect models revealed that the effects of adhesion state on melanoma gene expression were modest and varied by endothelial type, whereas melanoma origin had more widespread and larger effects (mean absolute standardized coefficients of 0.32-0.47 versus 0.60-0.87, respectively). The expression of three genes (SPP1, ITGA11, and MMP2) was associated with melanoma origin in all endothelial types. Spearman's co-expression analysis revealed endothelial-type-specific gene networks, and within-sample permutation confirmed the non-random coordination in all three endothelial types. Conclusions: Our findings support a model in which endothelial organ specificity contributes to melanoma cell adhesion behavior and associated transcriptional patterns, highlighting the importance of the vascular interface as a biologically active mediator of early metastatic cell-endothelium interactions.
Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) regulate gene expression, chromatin organization, and cellular signaling. Although traditionally considered non-coding, 21% of the ~190,000 annotated lncRNA transcripts contain poorly characterized open reading frames with unknown function.We systematically identified lncRNAs encoding micropeptides (MPs) using integrated computational and experimental evidence. Expression profiles across 17 cancer types from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) were analyzed to identify cancer-associated and transitional lncRNAs (Tr-lncRNAs). Structural modeling using AlphaFold was further applied to predict folding.We identified 478 lncRNA genes encoding 1782 MPs (10-100 amino acids). These MPs exhibit distinct amino acid and dipeptide compositions and are enriched for specific 4-mer motifs compared with canonical proteins. A subset of lncRNAs, including TNN-AS1, PVT1, XIST, and SNHG family members, encode multiple MPs. Analysis across cancer stages identified 2399 Tr-lncRNAs, most of them were cancer type and stage specific. Among these, 314 highly confident MPs from 72 Tr-lncRNAs were further analyzed. Pan-cancer analysis suggested MP-like functions for Tr-lncRNAs such as LINC01234, HAND2-AS1, XIST, UCA1, and HOXA11-AS. While most MPs are predicted to be intrinsically disordered, 3D structural modeling revealed several MPs with stable folds, including ubiquitin-like and RNase H-like structures.Tr-lncRNA-derived MPs represent a previously underexplored class of potentially functional molecules associated with cancer clinical annotation and may serve as biomarkers for disease progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
BackgroundMesenchymal stem cell (MSC)-derived endothelial-like cells exhibit enhanced angiogenic potential compared with undifferentiated MSCs. However, the role of N6-methyladenosine (m6A) RNA modification in MSC endothelial differentiation remains unclear.MethodsHuman bone marrow-derived MSCs were isolated and induced toward an endothelial phenotype using cytokine-enriched medium. Endothelial differentiation was evaluated using flow cytometry, western blotting, immunofluorescence staining, tube formation assays, and Dil-Ac-LDL uptake assays. MeRIP-seq and RNA-seq were performed to profile transcriptome-wide m6A methylation and gene expression changes. Bioinformatics analyses, including GO enrichment, KEGG pathway analysis, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction, were conducted to identify key regulatory genes and pathways.ResultsFollowing induction, MSCs exhibited endothelial characteristics, including increased expression of CD31 and CD34, enhanced tube formation ability, and increased Dil-Ac-LDL uptake. Transcriptome-wide analysis identified 16,355 differentially methylated peaks and 2,732 differentially expressed genes, including 1,204 differentially methylated and expressed genes (DMEGs). Functional enrichment analysis revealed that DMEGs were mainly associated with extracellular matrix organization, endothelial differentiation, and cell adhesion. PPI network analysis identified a highly interconnected module, and integrin family genes (ITGA1, ITGAV, ITGA11, ITGB5) and ADAMTS2 were identified as key hub genes.ConclusionsThis study provides a transcriptome-wide landscape of m6A methylation during endothelial differentiation of BM-MSCs and identifies key regulatory pathways and hub genes potentially involved in this process. These findings suggest that m6A-mediated epitranscriptomic regulation plays an important role in MSC endothelial differentiation and angiogenesis.
MicroRNA (miRNA) silencing is classically ascribed to RNA-sequence rules that guide Argonaute 2 (AGO2) targeting. Using chimeric eCLIP and complementary analyses in CRISPR-edited human lung epithelial cells, we show that efficient miRNA targeting also depends on the AGO2 adaptor-scaffold LIMD1. In LIMD1-deficient cells, AGO2 binds more miRNAs, but each AGO2-miRNA engages fewer transcripts and sites, reducing occupancy and halving both the breadth and depth of targeting. LIMD1 dependence is most pronounced for poorly conserved, weakly seed-paired sites that nonetheless form stable duplexes. LIMD1 deficiency alters AGO2 footprints and derepresses oncogenic targets inversely correlated with LIMD1 expression in lung adenocarcinoma. Thus, LIMD1 modifies the outcome of sequence-defined interactions that would otherwise be infrequent, unstable, or unproductive, revealing an adaptor-governed layer of posttranscriptional regulation beyond RNA-sequence rules.
The pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease involves interconnected failures in epithelial integrity, immune cell migration, and inflammatory homeostasis in the system, making multifunctional therapeutic approaches a promising option. In this study, we developed a Bacillus licheniformis-templated nano-silver (Nano-Ag) composite within a tannic acid-iron (TA-Fe) metal-phenolic network and evaluated its therapeutic effects in TNBS-induced colitis. The composite exhibited favorable physicochemical properties, including a stable surface architecture and uniform nanosilver deposition, supporting its potential application as a biohybrid nanotherapeutic platform. In vivo treatment produced a dose-responsive protective effect, with the 1 mg formulation showing the most consistent response. This treatment regimen improved survival, reduced morbidity, alleviated diarrhea and fecal bleeding, lowered disease activity, preserved colon length, and significantly restored colonic histoarchitecture. Further histological examination revealed reduced inflammatory infiltration and improved hepatic morphology, indicating protective effects beyond the intestine. At the molecular level, therapeutic efficacy was associated with LEF-1 suppression, axin restoration, CXCR2 and CCR7 attenuation, and CCR5 recovery, consistent with coordinated normalization of Wnt-associated epithelial signaling and chemokine-guided immune trafficking. Serum profiling further revealed broad modulation of dysregulated chemokine networks and partial correction of biochemical disturbances associated with gut-liver and gut-kidney axis dysfunction. Collectively, these findings indicate that the engineered biohybrid nano-Ag platform does not act through a single anti-inflammatory mechanism, but rather through integrated remodeling of epithelial repair, inflammatory signaling, and systemic metabolic stress. Our study identifies TA-Fe-stabilized probiotic nano-Ag therapy as a promising multifunctional strategy for experimental colitis and provides a mechanistic framework for developing next-generation nanomedicines for inflammatory bowel disease.
This study aimed to identify a candidate immune-related biomarker for lumbar disc herniation (LDH) and examine the functional relevance of ARG1 in intervertebral disc degeneration. Bioinformatics analysis was performed using the GSE146904 transcriptomic dataset to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and determine the core target. A puncture-induced rat disc degeneration model was then established, followed by in vivo ARG1 gain- and loss-of-function interventions. In vitro assays were used to evaluate the effects of ARG1 on chondrocyte biological behavior, extracellular matrix metabolism, inflammatory responses, and arginine metabolism. In addition, 57 patients with LDH and 68 healthy controls were retrospectively enrolled to assess the diagnostic value of serum ARG1. After multidimensional screening of the high-effect candidate DEGs, ARG1 was the only gene that met the prespecified immune-process, immune-pathway, and skeletal-system annotation criteria and was therefore prioritized for experimental validation. ARG1 was expressed at a low level in degenerated intervertebral disc tissues. ARG1 up-regulation attenuated puncture-induced disc injury and pain sensitization, promoted chondrocyte proliferation, inhibited apoptosis, increased SOX9 and COL2A1 expression, and reduced MMP13 and ADAMTS5 expression. Clinical testing showed that serum ARG1 levels were reduced in patients with LDH and were negatively correlated with Pfirrmann grade and VAS pain score. The area under the curve of serum ARG1 for distinguishing patients with LDH from healthy controls was 0.818. ARG1 was associated with attenuation of puncture-induced disc injury and early degenerative changes and may serve as a candidate auxiliary serum biomarker for LDH assessment and a potential target for future studies of immune-metabolic regulation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Genetic tumour heterogeneity, driven by clonal evolution, contributes to therapy resistance in many cancers. Most salivary gland cancers, including adenoid cystic carcinoma (AdCC) and myoepithelial carcinoma (MECA), lack effective systemic treatments, highlighting the need to characterise their evolutionary profiles. In this autopsy study, we reconstructed genetic heterogeneity and clonal evolution in two patients with metastatic AdCC and one patient with metastatic MECA. Radiology-guided autopsy was performed between 12 and 56 h after out-of-hospital death. One hundred forty-nine tumour samples were snap-frozen, of which 17 (4-7 per patient) were selected for whole-genome sequencing. Phylogenetic reconstruction was performed using CONIPHER. Autopsy revealed multiple metastatic sites not visible on antemortem or postmortem imaging. MYB-NFIB gene fusions were present across all tumour sites from the two AdCC patients, while a LIFR-PLAG1 fusion was detected in all samples from the MECA patient. All three cases showed extensive genetic tumour heterogeneity and branched phylogenies, suggestive of parallel evolution. Histologic growth patterns were consistent across metastatic sites. Overall, this study demonstrated marked genetic heterogeneity and branched evolution in these AdCC and MECA patients.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Oncology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Kashin-Beck disease (KBD) is an endemic osteochondropathy caused by T-2 toxin, however, the molecular mechanism underlying T-2 toxin-induced chondrocyte damage remains unclear. This study aimed to elucidate the pathogenic role of T-2 toxin in KBD and develop an EMF-augmented nanotherapy for KBD-related cartilage damage.This study investigated T-2 toxin-induced chondrocyte damage by evaluating protein acetylation, primary cilia integrity and the levels of chondrogenic markers (Sox9, Col2a1). In vitro experiments were performed via pharmacological and genetic SIRT3 inhibition. To protect chondrocytes, si-SIRT3@SPIONs were fabricated, and EMF was applied to improve cell transfection and silencing efficiency. A KBD model in SD rats was used to validate the in vivo therapeutic effect; immunohistochemical staining and micro-CT scanning and reconstruction were performed to comprehensively evaluate in vivo treatment efficacy.Pathological SIRT3 overexpression induced by T-2 toxin disrupted chondrocyte protein acetylation, impaired primary cilia integrity, and suppressed the gene expression of chondrogenic markers. SIRT3 inhibition efficiently protected T-2 toxin-induced chondrocyte cytotoxicity in vitro. Furthermore, EMF-augmented si-SIRT3@SPIONs treatment ameliorated cartilage damage, preserved matrix composition and restored normal chondrocyte phenotype in KBD model rats.T-2 toxin induces chondrocyte injury and promotes KBD progression mainly by disrupting primary cilia integrity and protein acetylation, with SIRT3 overexpression acting as a mediating factor. The EMF-augmented si-SIRT3@SPIONs therapy can effectively protect T-2 toxin-induced primary cilia damage and cartilage degeneration, thus providing a promising therapeutic modality for KBD.© The author(s).
This study investigates the mechanism by which heparin-binding epidermal growth factor (HB-EGF) maintains cartilage homeostasis in osteoarthritis (OA) through the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-mitochondrial autophagy axis. Given the challenges in OA treatment and the critical role of impaired mitochondrial autophagy in disease progression, this research first identified key regulators using transcriptomic data from human OA cartilage and GEO databases. An in vitro OA model was established via IL-1β induction in chondrocytes, through which HB-EGF was found to reverse the IL-1β-induced metabolic imbalance by downregulating catabolic markers (Mmp13, Adamts5) and upregulating anabolic markers (Acan, Col2a1). Further analysis revealed that HB-EGF enhanced mitophagy, as indicated by increased levels of Pink1, Parkin, and Lc3-II alongside decreased P62. These protective effects were attenuated by the mitophagy inhibitor Mdivi-1, confirming the dependence on this pathway. In conclusion, HB-EGF activates EGFR signaling to promote PINK1/ PARKIN-mediated mitophagy, which facilitates the clearance of damaged mitochondria and improves mitochondrial function, thereby restoring chondrocyte metabolic balance and delaying OA progression, suggesting the EGFR-mitophagy axis as a potential therapeutic target for OA.© 2026. The Author(s).
The clinical translation of mesenchymal stem cell (MSC)-based therapies for cartilage repair is limited by inefficient lineage specification and the frequent formation of mechanically inferior fibrocartilage. Here, we present a gene-activated scaffold strategy that couples transient mRNA delivery with a structurally defined biomaterial to program ectopic chondrogenesis. Lipid nanoparticle-mediated delivery of SOX9 mRNA within a microfluidically engineered porous scaffold induces a transcriptional response in MSCs, initiating a chondrogenic program without the need for sustained growth factor stimulation. In three-dimensional spheroid and scaffold models, SOX9 mRNA drives robust upregulation of cartilage-specific genes, including ACAN and COL2A1, while limiting fibrocartilage- and hypertrophy-associated markers. Transcriptomic analysis reveals that this response is characterized by coordinated activation of extracellular matrix organization and regulatory signaling pathways, consistent with the establishment of a self-reinforcing differentiation trajectory. Importantly, this transcriptional program is preserved within the scaffold microenvironment, enabling efficient ectopic lineage specification. Following subcutaneous implantation, MSC-laden scaffolds exhibit progressive extracellular matrix deposition, sustained expression of chondrogenic markers, and the formation of lacunae-like structures over time, indicative of tissue maturation. While this ectopic model does not recapitulate the native joint environment, the persistence of cartilage-like features supports the durability of the initial transcriptional programming. Together, these findings demonstrate that a transient mRNA-encoded transcriptional cue, when combined with a permissive three-dimensional scaffold, is sufficient to initiate and sustain chondrogenesis across biological scales. This work establishes a framework for mRNA-enabled biomaterials to direct cell fate and provides a foundation for the development of single-stage strategies for cartilage regeneration.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) represent a promising source for cell-based regenerative cartilage therapies. However, in vitro chondrogenic differentiation of MSCs varies widely between donors, posing a significant challenge to the clinical translation of these therapies. Here, we explored the potential of pre-conditioning MSCs with TGF-β1 during monolayer expansion in order to enhance chondrogenic differentiation in poorly responsive MSCs and reduce donor-to-donor variability.MSCs from six donors were expanded in monolayer using standard methods. For the final two days of expansion, half of the cells were pre-conditioned with 10 ng/mL TGF-β1, whereas the others were kept in standard expansion medium. MSCs were then detached for 28 days of chondrogenic differentiation in standard pellet culture in chondrogenic medium or in a 3D mechanically induced chondrogenesis model in polyurethane-fibrin scaffolds. After 28 days, samples were collected for gene expression analysis, sulphated glycosaminoglycan (sGAG) assay, DNA quantification and histological evaluations (Safranin-O/Fast green staining).Two days of TGF-β1 pre-conditioning during MSC expansion increased COL2A1 expression after 28 days of pellet culture (P = 0.0217), but also elevated COL10A1 (P = 0.0293), leaving the COL2A1/COL10A1 ratio unchanged (P = 0.8522). There was a trend for an increased COL2A1/COL1A1 ratio and an increased ACAN expression (P = 0.0837). Pre-conditioning had no effect on sGAGs retained in the pellets or released into the medium over the 28 days but slightly enhanced the Safranin-O staining on histological sections. When chondrogenesis was mechanically induced without exogenous TGF-β1, pre-conditioning had no effect on COL2A1, COL10A1, COL1A1, or ACAN gene expression. Similarly, no differences were observed in sGAG content (retained or released) or in Safranin-O staining.TGF-β1 pre-conditioning enhanced some chondrogenic markers in static pellet culture, but these effects were small and did not translate to the more clinically relevant model of mechanically induced chondrogenesis. Furthermore, TGF-β1 pre-conditioning was associated with increased COL10A1 expression, indicating a concurrent promotion of hypertrophic differentiation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Stickler syndrome is a skeletal dysplasia that is widely under-recognised yet the most common cause of inherited retinal detachment in children. The most prevalent subtype is Stickler syndrome type 1 (STL1), with an autosomal dominant variant in COL2A1 typically resulting in ophthalmic, orofacial, auditory and musculoskeletal manifestations. However, manifestations across these domains are not as prominent in children, making identification of individuals suitable for further assessment difficult. Thus, we sought to test an easy-to-use screening tool capable of differentiating children with STL1 from the general paediatric population.Children aged 4-10 years with and without COL2A1-confirmed STL1 were recruited from a single specialist centre and online via the national patient support group Stickler Syndrome UK (Registered Charity number 1060421). A screening tool was administered, and planned analysis of the median final score and individual components of the questionnaire was completed.26 general paediatric and 28 STL1 participants were recruited. STL1 participants scored higher on screening tool final score with a median score (IQR) of 7 (3.5) versus 0 (1), which was statistically significant on a Mann-Whitney U test (p < 0.001). The sensitivity and specificity were 93% and 96% respectively, and STL1 participants were more likely to have myopia, palate abnormalities, family history of cleft palate, and hypermobility on secondary analysis of the individual screening tool components (Hochberg-corrected all p < 0.005).We demonstrate a clinically powerful screening tool capable of identifying children with underlying STL1, and thus this questionnaire can now be applied to at-risk children to inform the need for further specialist assessment.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British Society for Rheumatology.
Upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) is an aggressive malignancy with limited molecular characterization in advanced disease. FGFR3 alterations are well established in low-grade urothelial carcinoma, but their prevalence, stability, and biological significance in locally advanced and metastatic UTUC remain only partially defined. We performed an integrated morphologic, immunohistochemical, and molecular analysis of 24 locally advanced and/or metastatic UTUC from 20 patients. FGFR3 status was assessed by RT-PCR across multiple tumor compartments, including biopsies, primary tumors, lymph-node metastases, and distant metastatic sites. Immunohistochemistry included CK20, CK5, GATA3, p53, and mismatch repair proteins. Targeted next-generation sequencing (NGS) was used to characterize co-occurring genomic alterations and to assess concordance with p53 immunophenotype. FGFR3 alterations were identified in 50% of patients and in 54.2% of analyzed tumors. FGFR3 status showed high intra-patient stability, with concordance between primary tumors and distant metastases in 90% of cases, whereas concordance with lymph node metastases was lower (50%), suggesting site-specific clonal divergence. Despite advanced stage, 92.3% of FGFR3-altered tumors displayed papillary urothelial carcinoma morphology, and most showed a luminal immunophenotype (61.5% by CK20/CK5 and 69.2% by GATA3/CK5). Targeted NGS revealed additional pathogenic alterations in 75% of patients, most frequently involving RTK/RAS/MAPK signaling (70%), cell-cycle regulation (25%), and PI3K/AKT pathway components (10%). TP53 mutations co-occurred with FGFR3 alterations in 60% of FGFR3-mutated patients and showed 90.4% concordance with p53 immunohistochemistry. Finally, a few cases exhibited complex, multi-site FGFR3 mutational patterns, consistent with intratumoral clonal evolutions. In conclusion, FGFR3 alterations are frequent and remarkably stable in advanced UTUC, even in high-grade and metastatic disease. These findings support the reliability of FGFR3 testing on limited diagnostic material and reinforce its relevance for therapeutic stratification. UTUC emerges as a molecularly dynamic disease in which early oncogenic drivers such as FGFR3 continue to shape tumor biology and therapeutic vulnerability at advanced stages.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
To assess neurodevelopmental and neurological features, including neuroimaging abnormalities, in children with molecularly confirmed hypochondroplasia.A retrospective cohort study of children with molecularly confirmed hypochondroplasia seen at Evelina London Children's Hospital skeletal dysplasia service was performed. Data collected included referral characteristics, neuroimaging findings, special educational needs, and diagnosed neurodevelopmental disorders. Statistical comparisons with UK population prevalence were performed using χ2 testing for educational outcomes and exact binomial testing for neurodevelopmental disorders, with Bonferroni-adjusted p-values reported for multiple comparisons.Forty-four children (24 females and 20 males; median age 9 years 10 months [interquartile range 6 years 7 months-15 years 7 months]) with molecularly confirmed hypochondroplasia were included. Twenty-five had received brain imaging with hippocampal malrotation (HIMAL) identified in 23 (92%). Among school-aged children, 71% required special educational support and 29% had formal education, health, and care plans (EHCPs), statistically higher than both UK population prevalence and previously reported hypochondroplasia prevalence. Formally diagnosed neurodevelopment disorders affected 20.5% of the cohort. Specific learning disorders remained significantly more common than UK population prevalence estimates after Bonferroni correction, with higher observed autism and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder rates also identified.Hypochondroplasia is associated with a substantial burden of neurodevelopmental and neurological abnormalities, including a high prevalence of HIMAL, which exceeds previous estimates. These findings support the need for clinical guidelines, developmental surveillance, and further research into fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3)-related brain development.© 2026 The Author(s). Developmental Medicine & Child Neurology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Mac Keith Press.
Pleomorphic giant cell carcinoma (PGCC) of the prostate is an extremely rare and aggressive malignancy with limited treatment options. We present a case report of metastatic PGCC patients treated with 177Lu-PSMA-617 radioligand therapy (Pluvicto) after progression on standard therapies. Both patients had PSMA-avid tumors on imaging. Molecular profiling revealed mutations in hallmark tumor suppressors including TP53, RB1, and PTEN. Both patients initially experienced partial radiographic response, in which one patient achieved stable disease for 9 months posttherapy. These findings suggest that PSMA-radioligand therapy may be a reasonable treatment for PGCC patients, but underscore the need for additional therapeutic options.Copyright © 2026 John Y. Kwon et al. Case Reports in Urology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Pelvic organ prolapse (POP) is a prevalent condition characterized by weakened pelvic floor tissues, significantly impacting women's quality of life. Current treatments, including synthetic meshes and native tissue repair, face challenges of high recurrence rates and complications. This study developed a novel tissue-engineered strategy utilizing a decellularized human amniotic membrane (HAAM) scaffold seeded with autologous adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells (ADSCs) and vaginal wall fibroblasts (HVFs) to construct a bioactive pelvic ligament equivalent. We first validated the successful preparation of HAAM with preserved extracellular matrix integrity and characterized the phenotypic markers of ADSCs and HVFs. In a rat abdominal wall defect model, the HAAM+ADSCs+HVFs composite demonstrated superior tissue regeneration and integration, reduced fibrosis, and effective modulation of the host immune microenvironment -evidenced by enhanced repair and decreased infiltration of pro-inflammatory cells -compared to all control groups (including HAAM alone and single-cell groups). Transcriptomic analysis revealed that the composite treatment promoted extracellular matrix organization and collagen synthesis while suppressing matrix degradation (MMP2/MMP9) and inflammatory pathways. Most importantly, mechanistic studies identified TGFB2 as the key paracrine mediator through which ADSCs exert their effects: TGFB2 inhibition abolished ADSCs-induced improvements in HVFs proliferation, migration, and anti-apoptosis, while its overexpression replicated these benefits. Western blot confirmed that TGFB2 coordinately upregulates COL1A1/COL3A1 and downregulates MMP2/MMP9 to restore ECM homeostasis. These comprehensive findings demonstrate that the HAAM-based ADSCs-HVFs composite promotes functional tissue regeneration via TGFB2-mediated mechanisms, offering a safe, effective, and regenerative therapeutic strategy with strong translational potential for POP.Copyright © 2026 Dong, Zhang, Duan and Xia.
The tumor immune microenvironment influences non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) progression and therapy response. Programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) is a key biomarker for immune checkpoint blockade, yet the genomic correlates of its expression status require elucidation.We analyzed 97 advanced lung adenocarcinoma patients, (13 cases-all from the PD-L1-unknown subgroup-excluded due to insufficient sequencing quality, leaving 84 cases for downstream analyses) categorized by PD-L1 expression (positive: n=32; negative: n=45; unknown: n=20). Genomic profiling was performed using a 95-gene targeted NGS panel. Analyses included mutational profiling, pathway enrichment (GO/KEGG), gene interaction patterns, and genomic complexity.The cohort was predominantly metastatic (99.0%). Dominant mutations were in EGFR(43.80%), TP53(38.02%), and KRAS(11.57%). PD-L1-positive tumors more frequently harbored EGFRE746_A750del, while TP53 mutations were enriched in PD-L1-negative cases. Somatic interaction analysis revealed significant EGFR/TP53 co-occurrence in PD-L1-positive tumors and TP53/RB1 co-occurrence in negative tumors. GO analysis showed PD-L1-positive tumors were enriched for kinase-related functions, reflecting a distinct EGFR-driven biology characterized by a striking 59.26% prevalence of EGFR mutations. KEGG analysis indicated immune pathway enrichment in this subgroup, supporting an oncogene-induced immune phenotype frequently synergized by TP53 co-alterations. In contrast, PD-L1-negative tumors correlated with co-mutation-prone, metabolism-oriented profiles and immune suppression. Mutual exclusivity patterns differed: in PD-L1-positive tumors, EGFRmutations were mutually exclusive with KRAS/NRAS/HRASmutations, suggesting a single dominant driver. PD-L1-negative tumors displayed more co-occurring alterations (e.g., TP53 with STK11 or PTEN). Furthermore, 24% of PD-L1-positive tumors had multiple concurrent alterations, a proportion significantly higher than in PD-L1-negative tumors (8%; P<0.05).This study delineates distinct genomic landscapes associated with PD-L1 expression. PD-L1-positive status is linked to an immune-active, kinase-signaling-driven phenotype with mutually exclusive drivers. PD-L1-negative status correlates with a more immunosuppressive, co-mutation-prone, and metabolism-oriented profile. These findings provide molecular insights into immune heterogeneity and may inform tailored combination therapies.Copyright © 2026 Huang, Yao, Zhang, Song, Wang, Zhao, Ji, Zhu, Zhao and Zhang.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42562245 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560566 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560011 is a review article
Ginsenosides are the primary bioactive constituents of American ginseng (Panax quinquefolius L.); however, the relative contributions of climatic factors and soil properties to variation in individual ginsenosides and overall ginsenoside composition across major cultivation regions remain largely unquantified. To address this gap, six major ginsenosides were quantified, including the protopanaxatriol (PPT)-type ginsenosides Rg1 and Re and the protopanaxadiol (PPD)-type ginsenosides Rb1, Rc, Rb2, and Rd, across 41 geographically distinct sites in China. Site-specific meteorological data and soil variables were integrated to quantify the contributions of environmental factors to variation in individual ginsenosides and in overall compositional profiles. Re declined significantly with increasing latitude, whereas Rb2 increased with latitude. Precipitation, particularly precipitation in January and March, emerged as key climatic explanatory variables for variation in PPT-type ginsenosides as well as Rb2. Soil exchangeable calcium (ECa) and available copper (ACu) contributed most strongly to the variation in Rc (ECa: 49.9%) and Rb1 (ACu: 36.1%), respectively. Variation in Rd was jointly explained by climatic and edaphic factors. Redundancy analysis further showed that the measured environmental variables collectively explained 46% of the spatial variation in ginsenoside compositional profiles (F = 9.5; p = 0.001). This study provides a quantitative framework for understanding the key environmental factors associated with ginsenoside composition and for guiding site-specific cultivation management.Copyright © 2026 Gao, Chai, Zhang, Li, Wang, Zeng, Wang, Li and Gao.
Gastric adenocarcinoma (GAC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality, particularly in patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis, for whom effective therapies are limited. We investigated the therapeutic efficacy and molecular mechanism of CYD-4-61, a BAX activator, using human GAC cell lines, patient-derived xenograft models, genetically engineered mouse models, and a syngeneic mouse model. CYD-4-61 potently inhibited tumor cell proliferation, induced apoptosis, and suppressed cancer stem cell-like properties, with enhanced activity in radiation-resistant GAC cells. Mechanistically, CYD-4-61 activated the BAX-caspase pathway, leading to SOX9 protein reduction. Integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic analyses identified SOX9-dependent transcriptional programs as major targets of CYD-4-61. Functional rescue experiments together with chromatin immunoprecipitation and CUT&RUN analyses supported CDK4 as a SOX9-regulated gene and demonstrated suppression of the SOX9-CDK4 regulatory axis following CYD-4-61 treatment. In multiple preclinical models, CYD-4-61 significantly inhibited tumor growth and improved the therapeutic response to anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) therapy while modulating the tumor immune microenvironment. Clinically, co-expression of SOX9 and CDK4 was associated with diffuse-type GAC and poor patient outcomes. These findings identify the BAX-SOX9-CDK4 axis as an important mechanism contributing to the antitumor activity of CYD-4-61 and provide a strong preclinical rationale for its further development as a therapeutic strategy for aggressive GAC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564203 is a review article
The development of the dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus is protracted over time in comparison with other brain regions such as hippocampal cornus ammoni or neocortex, extending over the first postnatal weeks. During DG postnatal development, neural stem cells (NSCs) will remain to generate the adult neurogenic niche that will sustain granule neuron (GN) production throughout life. NSCs in the DG divide to generate intermediate progenitor cells (IPCs), whose highly regulated dynamics of self-renewal or cell cycle exit decisions still remain poorly understood. Sox5 is a transcription factor (TF) essential for the establishment of adult NSCs, however, its potential role in Sox5 expressing IPCs during DG development remains unexplored. In this study, we demonstrate that conditional loss of Sox5 during embryonic development leads to critical alterations in cell proliferation and survival in IPCs. Specifically, following Sox5 loss, IPCs exhibit a shortening of S-phase duration in late postnatal and juvenile adult stages. Furthermore, these alterations in IPC cell cycle dynamics could be behind the defects in GN differentiation observed in Sox5-defective mice that ultimately leads to subtle morphological changes in DG architecture. Finally, we demonstrate that the additional loss of one Sox6 copy, a closely related TF to Sox5, lead to more profound disruptions in DG morphology than the one observed upon Sox5 loss. Overall, these findings point to a prominent role for Sox5 in combination with Sox6 in IPC cell cycle progression and GN maturation during postnatal DG development.Copyright © 2026 Tirado-Melendro, Li, Medina-Menéndez, Jurado-Angulo, Rodríguez-Martín, García-Redondo, Bilińska and Morales.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is heterogeneous, and hepatocyte plasticity is linked to poorer patient outcomes. A subset of human HCC harboring Tuberous Sclerosis Complex 1 (TSC1) mutations exhibits more aggressive behavior. TFEB is a master regulator of lysosomal biogenesis and cell fate. We analyzed human normal and HCC tissue arrays for TFEB and CK19 expression, as well as bulk and single-cell RNA-seq datasets from mouse and human HCC, to define TFEB-associated transcriptional programs. We performed biochemical, histological, metabolomic, and transcriptomic analyses in liver-specific Tsc1 knockout (L-Tsc1 KO) and L-Tsc1,Tfeb double KO (DKO) mice. Loss of hepatic Tsc1 led to increased phosphorylation of S6 and 4EBP1, with paradoxical increases in TFEB nuclear translocation and activation. L-Tsc1 KO mice showed increased hepatocyte plasticity, decreased HFN4α, increased YAP1 activation, and spontaneous HCC with increased SOX9 and CK19-positive biliary epithelial cell (BEC)-like cells at 8-12 months. Deletion of Tfeb dampened hepatic metabolic reprogramming and hepatocyte fate changes and inhibited tumor progression in L-Tsc1 KO mice. Increased TFEB activity was associated with increased YAP and SOX9 gene expression and high-grade malignant HCC in humans. These findings indicate that loss of hepatic TSC1 leads to non-canonical TFEB activation, promoting hepatocyte plasticity and tumor heterogeneity associated with high-grade malignancy in both mouse and human HCC. .
Hedgehog (HH) signaling plays a complex role in epithelial-stromal interactions, but its effects on gastrointestinal stem cells mediated by heterogeneous stromal cell populations remain incompletely defined. Here, we investigate how stromal HH signaling regulates gastric stem cells and tumorigenesis in a segment-specific manner.We genetically activated HH signaling in distinct stromal cell lineages using Col1a2-, Pdgfra-, Gli1-, Acta2-, and Prrx1-CreERT mouse lines, combined with lineage tracing, RNA-seq, ChIP-qPCR, and pharmacological interventions. Human gastric cancer data from TCGA were also analyzed.We show that genetic activation of HH signaling in stromal cells marked by Col1a2, Pdgfra, or Gli1, but not by Acta2, induces tumorigenesis in the stomach and gastroesophageal junction, but not in small or large intestine. HH signaling increases the expression of multiple BMP antagonists in gastric but not colonic stromal cells, via Gli1-mediated transcription. These BMP antagonists in turn activate Wnt/β-catenin signaling in gastric stem cells, driving their proliferation and initiating gastric cancer expressing CD44 and Sox9, but not Lgr5. Activating BMP or inhibiting Wnt signaling blocks tumor initiation. TCGA patient data analysis reveals elevated HH signaling in gastric cancers, which correlates with suppressed BMP signaling.These findings uncover a gastrointestinal segment-specific oncogenic role for HH signaling in Col1a2+Acta2- stromal cells, mediated through the BMP-Wnt/β-catenin axis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
▒: Serum-free expanded hair follicle mesenchymal stem cells (hfMSCs) maintained mesenchymal phenotype and multipotency during static and stirred suspension bioreactor (SSB) expansion and promoted histological cartilage repair in a murine full-thickness cartilage defect model, with minimal direct engraftment yet expressing of a number of secreted protein (in vitro and in vivo), supporting a primarily paracrine mechanism of action.● Osteoarthritis is characterized by irreversible cartilage degeneration and limited intrinsic repair, and current treatments largely address symptoms rather than restoring cartilage structure. ● Mesenchymal stem cell therapies show promise for cartilage repair but are constrained by invasive tissue harvest, donor variability, and the need for scalable, serum-free biomanufacturing approaches.● hfMSCs obtained by minimally invasive hair plucking represent an accessible MSC source, but their performance after serum-free static and SSB expansion for cartilage repair has not been fully defined.● hfMSCs from four adult donors were adapted from fetal bovine serum-containing media into a fully defined serum-free medium (PPRF-MSC-6) and expanded in either 2D static flasks or SSBs using Cultispher G microcarriers under serum-free conditions. ● Phenotype and potency were assessed by flow cytometry for canonical MSC markers and lack of hematopoietic markers, along with tri-lineage (osteogenic, adipogenic, chondrogenic) differentiation assays and quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomics with pathway analysis. ● A NOD SCID murine full-thickness femoral groove cartilage defect model was used; one week post-injury, mice received intra-articular injections of 1 × 10⁵ hfMSCs (static- or SSB-expanded, male or female donor) or phosphate-buffered saline, followed by Safranin O-based histological scoring and immunofluorescent detection of human nuclear antigen and human SOX9 at four weeks post-injury.● Serum-free hfMSC expansion achieved robust proliferation in static culture (∼8-12-fold over 5 days) and comparable or greater proliferation in SSBs (∼15-fold in a representative donor), while preserving MSC surface marker expression and tri-lineage differentiation capacity across donors and culture formats.● Both static- and SSB-expanded hfMSCs significantly improved histological cartilage repair scores relative to phosphate-buffered saline controls, with regenerated tissue showing Safranin O-positive matrix, restoration of cartilage architecture, and integration with native cartilage. ● Human cell engraftment within the repair tissue was low with minimal SOX9 co-localization, and proteomic profiling revealed only modest differences between static and SSB conditions, with ZNF703 as the sole protein significantly upregulated. hfMSCs expressed a number of secreted proteins in vitro and in vivo including follistatin and α2-Macroglobulin.● hfMSCs derived from plucked hair follicles can be expanded under fully defined serum-free conditions in either static flasks or SSBs while retaining mesenchymal phenotype, multipotency, and cartilage reparative function in vivo.● The comparable repair outcomes between static- and SSB-expanded cells, together with minimal proteomic alterations, indicate that scalable serum-free bioreactor processing can generate therapeutically competent hfMSCs suitable for translational cartilage repair applications.● Potential donor- and sex-associated variability in proliferation, engraftment patterns, and repair scores highlight the need for donor screening and standardized potency assays, and future studies in more chronic and immunocompetent models are warranted to define long-term efficacy and mechanistic contributions of hfMSC paracrine signaling.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Soft tissue tumors with chondroid matrix represent a heterogeneous group with persistent diagnostic challenges. Advances in molecular diagnostics have identified recurrent gene fusions in several chondroid neoplasms, predominantly involving FN1. Here, we report two cases of chondroid tumors harboring a novel FOS::PABPN1 fusion. The patients were young and presented with small, deep, peri-osseous nodules located in the extremities. Histologically, the tumors were well-circumscribed and lobulated. Both cases presented fibro-cartilaginous and spindle cell areas. No cytonuclear atypia, mitoses, or necrosis were observed. Immunohistochemistry (performed in Case 2) revealed positivity for S100, CD34, and FOS, with negativity for MDM2, HMGA2, PLAG1, and desmin. RNA sequencing identified an identical in-frame FOS::PABPN1 fusion transcript in both tumors. Unsupervised transcriptomic clustering positioned the cases near synovial chondromatoses and other chondroid lesions, despite the absence of FN1 rearrangements. Massive overexpression of the WIF1 (Wnt Inhibitory Factor1) gene was also observed. To our knowledge, this is the first description of FOS rearrangement in mesenchymal tumors exhibiting chondroid differentiation. The FOS::PABPN1 fusion expands the spectrum of FOS-altered neoplasms beyond osteoblastic and vascular lesions and defines a potential new molecular subset of benign chondroid tumors. These findings highlight the utility of RNA sequencing in the diagnosis of chondroid neoplasms in order to identify rearrangement (of FN1, THBS1 or FOS) or IDH1/2. The consistent upregulation of WIF1 may represent a potential diagnostic biomarker.© 2026 The Author(s). Genes, Chromosomes and Cancer published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Expression of RUNX1::RUNX1T1 (also known as RUNX1::ETO) is frequently observed in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and has been shown to block myeloid development. Although several studies have shown RUNX1::RUNX1T1 transcriptional deregulation, the proteome in human hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) is poorly characterized. Using mass spectrometry, we show that expression of RUNX1::RUNX1T1 in human HSPCs was linked to differential expression of 257 proteins, including CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein beta (C/EBPβ) downregulation. Consistent with this observation, although CEBPB mRNA is generally overexpressed in AML, patients with t(8;21) have comparatively low CEBPB expression. We show in human HSPCs that ectopic expression of C/EBPβ can promote proliferation of myeloid cells. Conversely, short hairpin RNA-mediated knockdown of C/EBPβ inhibited the growth of normal human myeloid cells; however, it promoted the growth of cells expressing RUNX1::RUNX1T1. C/EBPβ also influenced differentiation, with ectopic expression promoting monocyte development, whereas reduced expression favored granulocyte differentiation, which in turn suggests that C/EBPβ expression may act as a lineage discriminator for these myeloid cell types. In summary, our data reveal how RUNX1::RUNX1T1 drives deregulation of the HSPC proteome and suggest a mechanism by which RUNX1::RUNX1T1 expression contributes to leukemia development, including C/EBPβ, which itself affects normal myeloid development.© 2026 American Society of Hematology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563016 is a review article
Reliable detection of structural variants (SVs) and copy number variations (CNVs) is crucial in the contemporary diagnostics of pediatric B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). However, limitations of commonly used conventional and molecular cytogenetic methods may hinder the accurate genetic characterization of patients. Optical genome mapping (OGM) offers a reliable alternative by enabling high-resolution, genome-wide detection of CNVs and SVs. Chromosomal aberrations were screened using OGM in 51 children with B-ALL. The results were compared with those of karyotyping, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), digital multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (digitalMLPA), and targeted RNA sequencing (RNA-seq). OGM data showed high congruency with karyotyping and FISH findings, detecting clinically relevant variants beyond G-banding results and unraveling a complex KMT2A fusion undetected by FISH. Gene fusions involved in complex ETV6::RUNX1 translocations, but not detected by RNA-seq, were confirmed using FISH. Normalization of OGM copy number values with DNA-index-improved concordance with FISH-derived copy numbers in near-tri/tetraploid cases. In the peripheral regions of OGM variants (fringe-zones), a novel evaluation strategy called 'FriZone' was applied, which significantly improved the concordance between OGM and digitalMLPA. In addition, a co-segregation analysis revealed strong associations between ETV6::RUNX1 fusion and deletions of ETV6, RAG2, and NR3C2. OGM uncovered complex rearrangements undetected by widely used methods in 15% of cases, improving genetic classification and risk stratification in 10% of the patients. The FriZone analysis and normalization by DNA-index provide a refined, more accurate approach to OGM variant interpretation, facilitating the efficient application of OGM in clinical diagnostics. © 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.© 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
The retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) is crucial for visual function, and its dysfunction contributes to retinal diseases such as age-related macular degeneration. Despite the translational potential of iPSC-derived RPE (iPSC-RPE) in cell replacement therapy, the functional visual gains achieved to date are modest. A key challenge is that the molecular and epigenomic signatures underlying functional RPE are yet to be fully elucidated. By integrating multiomics data, we systematically benchmarked the 3D epigenomic landscapes of primary human RPE (hRPE), iPSC-RPE, and the immortalized ARPE-19 cell line. Our analysis reveals that iPSC-RPE exhibits a mixed molecular state. iPSC-RPE recapitulates hRPE-like transcription and chromatin looping, but its histone modification states remain incompletely matured, and its chromatin accessibility and higher-order chromatin organization do not fully converge to hRPE. Furthermore, we found that hRPE exhibits strong extracellular matrix (ECM) organization driven by enhancer-mediated long-range chromatin interactions and enriched RUNX1 motifs, while iPSC-RPE retains key developmental-related transcriptional signatures, marked by factors such as HAND1, OTX2, and PAX6. These findings establish a multiomics benchmark for RPE maturity, pinpoint key regulatory nodes like ECM organization and RUNX1 for therapeutic targeting, and provide a roadmap for optimizing differentiation protocols and scaffold design in retinal regenerative medicine.
Xanthogranulomatous epithelial tumour (XGET) is a recently described, rare mesenchymal neoplasm characterized by a HMGA2::NCOR2 gene fusion. We report a case of primary intraosseous XGET in the calcaneus of a 32-year-old female presenting with a 10-month history of heel pain. Initial differential diagnosis based on imaging features of the lytic calcaneal lesion included giant cell tumour of bone (GCTB) and solid aneurysmal bone cyst (sABC). Histopathology revealed a bland appearing lesion with xanthomatous histiocytes and giant cells, but immunohistochemistry showed diffuse cytokeratin positivity. Definitive diagnosis was established via molecular confirmation of the HMGA2::NCOR2 fusion and absence of H3F3A and USP6 alterations. This case documents the radiological features of a rare entity that mimics common bone tumours and emphasizes the role of molecular pathology in distinguishing XGET from other more frequent giant cell-rich lesions.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to International Skeletal Society (ISS).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42543658 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42543656 is a review article
Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) are important in cell-based therapies for blood-related disorders. While progress has been made in generating HSCs by directed differentiation of pluripotent stem cells (PSCs), such cultures promote hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPCs) over HSCs. Thus, elucidating markers and factors associated with HSC versus HPC development is imperative. HSCs and HPCs originate from hemogenic endothelium (HE) in a Runx1-dependent process. Here, we characterize a Runx1 enhancer (+110) that distinguishes emerging dorsal aorta HSCs from HPCs. Comparative transcriptomics reveal a 17-gene signature associated with in vivo long-term HSC potential, while single-cell multiome analysis demonstrates a clear epigenetic identity of dorsal aorta HE, preHSCs, and HPCs, providing a resource of stage-specific enhancer activity. Our study demonstrates the power of cell type-specific enhancer-reporter models to dissect cell fate decisions in development and provides new inroads to label and/or perturb HSC versus HPC potential in vivo and in vitro.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Gastric cancer (GC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, with current treatment strategies largely limited to surgery, chemotherapy, and targeted therapy. Although the glycoprotein CPXM1 has been implicated in tumorigenesis, its functional role and underlying molecular mechanisms in GC remain unclear. In this study, we demonstrated that CPXM1 is significantly upregulated in GC tissues, and that elevated CPXM1 expression is associated with an unfavorable prognosis in GC patients. Both in vitro and in vivo functional assays revealed that CPXM1 significantly promotes GC cell proliferation, invasion, and metastasis. Mechanistically, CPXM1 was found to facilitate epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), a critical process driving cancer progression. Furthermore, we identified the transcription factor RUNX1 as a direct upstream regulator of CPXM1, which binds to the CPXM1 promoter and transcriptionally activates its expression. Collectively, these findings delineate a previously unrecognized RUNX1/CPXM1/EMT axis that contributes to GC malignant progression, highlighting CPXM1 as a potential diagnostic biomarker and therapeutic target.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42208850 is a review article
Breast cancer (BC) exhibits significant heterogeneity and complexity and is leading causes of mortality in women globally. Paclitaxel (PTX) is commonly utilized as the primary medication for BC. However, the resistance of BC to PTX poses a significant challenge in clinical treatment. This study aimed at to explore whether carboxy-terminal domain small phosphatase like 2 (CTDSPL2) affected PTX resistance in BC cells. PTX resistant BC cell lines, including MCF-7/PTX and MDA-MB-231/PTX, were developed by continuously increasing PTX concentration, and we found that CTDSPL2 was upregulated in BC cells with PTX resistance. Loss-of-function studies showed that CTDSPL2 knockdown caused a decrease in cytotoxicity and proliferative ability in PTX-resistant BC cells, as well as enhanced cell apoptotic rate and DNA damage. The results from nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA) indicated that CTDSPL2 knockdown also suppressed the secretion of extracellular vesicles. In vivo tumorigenesis assays showed that CTDSPL2 downregulation inhibited tumorigenicity of nude mice injecting with PTX-resistant BC cells. Co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) assay demonstrated the binding between CTDSPL2 and SCY1-like pseudokinase 1 (SCYL1). The increased level of SCYL1 phosphorylation evoked by CTDSPL2 knockdown in PTX-resistant cancer cells was blocked after mutating the serine 754 site of SCYL1 to alanine. In conclusion, the present study identifies CTDSPL2 as a new factor in BC that plays an essential role in PTX-resistant BC cells through the regulation of SCYL1 phosphorylation.
Osteosarcoma is the most common bone malignancy in children and adolescents. Patients with metastatic and recurrent osteosarcoma have poor prognosis. Regorafenib is a multi-kinase inhibitor recommended as a complement to standard chemotherapy in the treatment of advanced osteosarcoma. The mechanisms associated with regorafenib resistance remains unclear. In this study we performed transcriptomics, proteomics and phosphorylated proteomics using regorafenib-treated osteosarcoma cell lines (MG-63, HOS-MNNG for transcriptomics, HOS-MNNG for proteomics and phosphorylated proteomics). After comprehensive multiomics and verification analyses of differentially expressed genes, essential genes for the malignancy of osteosarcoma cells were identified. The effects of essential genes on the proliferation, invasion, and migration of osteosarcoma were determined. The study also evaluated their role in the apoptosis of osteosarcoma cells. The up-regulation of essential genes was determined by immunohistochemistry assays. Using comprehensive multiomics and verification analyses we found that the CTDSPL2 gene might play a role in the malignancy and Regorafenib resistance in osteosarcoma. In vitro and clinical specimen assays demonstrated that CTDSPL2 promotes the proliferation, invasion and metastasis of osteosarcoma cells, while inhibiting tumor cell apoptosis. In conclusion CTDSPL2 was identified as an essential gene for survival of osteosarcoma cells. Knockdown of CTDSPL2 expression significantly inhibited the proliferation, invasion, and metastasis of osteosarcoma cells, suggesting that it is involved in the formation and development of osteosarcoma tumors. Our data showed that CTDSPL2 is a potential therapeutic target for patients with osteosarcoma.© 2025 The Author(s).
Depressive symptoms in late life can impair daily function and accompany cognitive decline. However, the molecular mechanisms that underlie these changes in the brain remain poorly understood.Differential expression analysis was performed on bulk-tissue RNA sequencing data generated from dorsolateral prefrontal cortex samples of elderly participants in ROS/MAP (Religious Orders Study and Memory and Aging Project; N = 998, mean age at death = 89.7 years). Bulk tissue RNA sequencing was analyzed against depressive symptoms measured prior to death, controlling for Alzheimer's disease neuropathology, medication status, and lifestyle factors. Sex-stratified models were also tested.Increased abundance of the Prader-Willi syndrome-associated gene PWAR1 (corrected p = 5.47 × 10-3) and CTDSPL2 (corrected p = .03) were associated with a higher burden of depressive symptoms in the combined sample. An additional 14 genes showed suggestive associations, including several with known links to neuropsychiatric illness (e.g., ACVR2B-AS1, COL19A1). Functional enrichment analysis revealed downregulation of aerobic metabolism and upregulation of both amino acid catabolism and DNA modification processes. Differential expression signatures were poorly correlated between males and females (Pearson r = 0.12; 95% CI, 0.10 to 0.13), and only the male group showed independently significant differential expression. Little overlap was found with previously published analyses of major depressive disorder.Building on recently published single-nucleus profiling, we present the largest-ever study of transcriptomic correlates of depressive symptoms in late life, revealing new insights into sex-specific regulators. PWAR1 and CTDSPL2 were identified as putative markers of late-life depression in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and warrant further study.© 2025 The Authors.
By recent estimates, 40% of children worldwide are exposed to second-hand smoke (SHS), which has been associated with adverse health outcomes. While numerous studies have linked maternal smoking during pregnancy (MSDP) to widespread differences in child blood DNA methylation (DNAm), research specifically examining postnatal SHS exposure remains sparse. To address this gap, we conducted epigenome-wide meta-analyses to identify associations of postnatal SHS and child blood DNAm.Six cohorts from the Pregnancy And Childhood Epigenetics (PACE) Consortium (total N = 2,695), with SHS data and child blood DNAm (aged 7-9 years) measured with the Illumina 450K array were included in the meta-analysis. Linear regression models adjusted for covariates were fitted to examine the association between the number of household smokers in postnatal life (0, 1, 2+) and child blood DNAm. Sensitivity models without adjusting for MSDP and restricted to mothers who did not smoke during pregnancy were evaluated.Our analysis revealed significant associations (False Discovery Rate < 0.05) between household postnatal SHS exposure and DNAm at 11 CpGs in exposed children. Nine CpGs were mapped to genes (MYO1G, FAM184B, CTDSPL2, LTBP3, PDE10A, and FIBCD1), while 2 CpGs were located in open sea regions. Notably, all except 2 CpGs (mapped to FIBCD1 and CTDSPL2) have previously been linked to either personal smoking habits or in utero exposure to smoking. The models restricted to non-smoking mothers provided similar results. Importantly, several of these CpGs and their associated genes are implicated in conditions exacerbated by or directly linked to SHS.Our findings highlight the potential biological effects of SHS on blood DNAm. These findings support further research on epigenetic factors mediating deleterious effects of SHS on child health and call for public health policies aimed at reducing exposure, particularly in environments where children are present.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Carboxy-terminal domain small phosphatase like 2 (CTDSPL2), one of the haloacid dehalogenase phosphatases, is associated with several diseases including cancer. However, the role of CTDSPL2 and its regulatory mechanism in lung cancer remain unclear. Here, we aimed to explore the clinical implications, biological functions, and molecular mechanisms of CTDSPL2 in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). CTDSPL2 was identified as a novel target of the tumor suppressor miR-193a-3p. CTDSPL2 expression was significantly elevated in NSCLC tissues. Database analysis showed that CTDSPL2 expression was negatively correlated with patient survival. Depletion of CTDSPL2 inhibited the proliferation, migration, and invasion of NSCLC cells, as well as tumor growth and metastasis in mouse models. Additionally, silencing of CTDSPL2 enhanced CD4+ T cell infiltration into tumors. Moreover, CTDSPL2 interacted with JAK1 and positively regulated JAK1 expression. Subsequent experiments indicated that CTDSPL2 activated the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway through the upregulation of JAK1, thereby promoting the progression of NSCLC. In conclusion, CTDSPL2 may play an oncogenic role in NSCLC progression by activating PI3K/AKT signaling via JAK1. These findings may provide a potential target for the diagnosis and treatment of NSCLC.© 2024. The Author(s).
Background: Necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) is the most common gastrointestinal emergency in preterm infants. Epigenetic changes in DNA methylation may be present prior to NEC onset. Methods: 24 preterm infants with NEC and 45 matched controls were included. Human DNA was isolated from stool samples and methylation of CTDSPL2, HERC1, NXPE3 and PTGDR was measured using pyrosequencing. Results: CTDSPL2 displayed a higher DNA methylation of 51% compared with 17% in controls, prior to NEC onset (p = 0.047). Discussion: Noninvasive measurement of methylation in stool allows for comparison with healthy preterm controls. This potentially allows future biomarker or risk predictor use. The effect of CTDSPL2 hypermethylation on gene expression remains unclear.
Carboxy-terminal domain (CTD) small phosphatase like 2 (CTDSPL2), also known as SCP4 or HSPC129, is a new member of the small CTD phosphatase (SCP) family and its role in cancers remains unclear. Here, we used a Phos-tag technique to screen a series of phosphatases and identified CTDSPL2 as a mitotic regulator. We demonstrated that CTDSPL2 was phosphorylated at T86, S104, and S134 by cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1) in mitosis. Depletion of CTDSPL2 led to mitotic defects and prolonged mitosis. Resultantly, CTDSPL2 deletion restrained proliferation, migration, and invasion in pancreatic cancer cells. We further confirmed the dominant negative effects of a phosphorylation-deficient mutant form of CTDSPL2, implying the biological significance of CTDSPL2 mitotic phosphorylation. Moreover, RT2 cell cycle array analysis revealed p21 and p27 as downstream regulators of CTDSPL2, and inhibition of p21 and/or p27 partially rescued the phenotype in CTDSPL2-deficient cell lines. Importantly, both CTDSPL2 depletion and phosphorylation-deficient mutant CTDSPL2 hindered tumor growth in xenograft models. Together, our findings for the first time highlight the novel role of CTDSPL2 in regulating cell mitosis, proliferation and motility in pancreatic cancer and point out the implications of CTDSPL2 in regulating two critical cell cycle participants (p21 and p27), providing an alternative molecular target for pancreatic cancer treatment.Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Emphysema is the primary pathological feature of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The accumulation of CD8+T cells induces epithelial cell damage, thereby impairing the pulmonary alveolar niche. In this study, we demonstrated that CD8+T cell activation was associated with COPD progression. Furthermore, our data indicated that AARS1-mediated lactylation was involved in cigarette smoke extract (CSE)-induced CD8+T cell activation. Mechanistically, cigarette smoke (CS) exposure upregulated AARS1 levels in CD8+T cells. Elevated AARS1 catalyzed the transfer of a lactyl group to RUNX3 at the K193 site, leading to the elevation of lactylation of RUNX3-K193, and inhibited RUNX3 fusion with autophagosomes for degradation. Subsequent accumulation of RUNX3 promoted CD8+T cell activation and enhanced their cytotoxicity. Here we demonstrate, using a CD8+T cell-lung organoid co-culture model and an experimental emphysema model induced by CS, that treatment with the lactate inhibitor DCA and silencing of AARS1 abrogated CS-induced CD8+T cell activation, which ameliorated emphysematous pathological changes in mouse lung tissue. Moreover, elevated lactate and AARS1 negatively correlated with lung function in human populations. Collectively, this study reveals that AARS1 drives CD8+T cell activation by mediating RUNX3 lactylation to inhibit its autolysosomal degradation, and targeting of AARS1 may provide new insights into the therapy of emphysema.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Y. Xu, K. Wang, W. Gao, C. Zhang, F. Huang, S. Wen and B. Wang, "MicroRNA-106b Regulates the Tumor Suppressor RUNX3 in Laryngeal Carcinoma Cells," FEBS Letters 587, no. 19 (2013): 3166-3174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.febslet.2013.05.069. The above article, published online on 01 August 2013 in Wiley Online Library (wileyonlinelibrary.com), has been retracted by agreement between the journal Editor-in-Chief, Michael Brunner; the Federation of European Biochemical Societies; and John Wiley & Sons Ltd. The retraction has been agreed following concerns raised by a third party. An investigation identified a duplication between the Hep2, miR-106b ASO band and the Hep2, Mimics-NC band in Figure 2D. A further duplication was identified between the TU-212 GAPDH bands in Figure 2D and ASO/Control GAPDH bands in Figure 3E. In addition, the ASO/Control TU-212 panel in Figure 3D is duplicated with the pCMV6/Control TU-212 panel in Figure 4D. Finally, the real-time PCR results in Figure 6A are duplicated with those shown in Figure 6B. The authors did not respond to requests from the integrity team to comment on the concerns or provide original data. The editors therefore consider the results and conclusions to be compromised. The authors did not respond to our notice of retraction.© 2026 Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
The antler primary growth center, located at the distal tip of the growing antler, comprises five consecutive tissue zones beneath the velvet skin. Because the outermost reserve mesenchyme contains blastema progenitor cells with multipotent differentiation capacity, antler regeneration recapitulates embryonic skeletal development through endochondral ossification (ECO). The molecular mechanisms governing cell fate decisions and tissue morphogenesis across these zones remain poorly understood.We profiled the proteome of the sika deer (Cervus nippon) antler growth center across all five tissue zones using the Orbitrap Astral platform in data-independent acquisition (DIA) mode. Protein identification and quantification were performed with DIA-NN. Proteome dynamics were analyzed by integrating three complementary clustering approaches including weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), Fuzzy C-means clustering, and monotonic feature selection. Differentially expressed proteins were annotated by gene ontology (GO) enrichment analysis. Transcriptomic data from the same tissue zones were reanalyzed to assess mRNA-protein concordance.A total of 8,173 proteins were identified across the five tissue zones, representing the most comprehensive proteomic coverage of the antler growth center. Clustering analyses resolved distinct protein expression modules corresponding to sequential ECO stages from mesenchymal proliferation in the reserve mesenchyme to cartilage mineralization in the innermost zone. Deep proteome coverage enabled detection of low-abundance chondrogenic transcription factors SOX9, SOX6, and RUNX3, whose spatial expression matched their known roles in chondrogenesis. At the protein level, the reserve mesenchyme co-expressed 11 embryonic and 23 mesenchymal stem cell markers, indicating that antler stem cells represented a unique mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) population possessing partial embryonic stem cell (ESC)-like features.This study provides a spatially resolved proteomic atlas of the complete antler growth center and identifies key regulatory proteins at each stage of endochondral ossification. The findings offer new insights into progenitor cell characteristics, transcription factor activity, and protein dynamics during bone development, with potential relevance to bone repair and regenerative medicine.©2026 Xi et al.
Allograft rejection remains a critical limitation following lung transplantation, with alloreactive CD8+ T cells serving as key effectors. We performed single-cell RNA and T cell receptor sequencing on 19 biopsies from 7 lung transplant recipients, including sequential biopsies spanning acute cellular rejection (ACR) and acute lung allograft dysfunction (ALAD). Expanded clonotypes exhibited effector/memory signatures. Following ACR resolution, persistent clonotypes displayed quiescent memory programs (KLF2, TBX21), while transitory clonotypes showed distinct activation-associated regulon activity. Pre-expansion clonotypes that later expanded exhibited transcriptional priming: a shared cytotoxic/memory program (TBX21, RUNX3, EOMES) was detectable before both events, with additional IRF9-driven interferon priming preceding fungal infection. These signatures were present in surveillance biopsies obtained before clinical disease onset. Given the role of persistent expanded T cells as a potential mechanistic link to chronic lung allograft dysfunction, these findings reveal predictive transcriptional signatures for targeting rejection-driving CD8+ T cells.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Genital lichen sclerosus (GLS) is a chronic inflammatory dermatosis that affects the genital skin. Despite different clinical manifestations, the pathogenesis of GLS in men and women is believed to be common and is attributed to a combination of autoimmune and genetic factors. In this study, we compared the transcriptomic profiles of penile (mGLS) and vulvar lichen sclerosus (VLS), aiming to identify commonly deregulated genes. We observed a substantial heterogeneity in the transcriptomic signatures in mGLS samples, which is driven by different compositions of immune infiltrates. In mGLS, gene expression signatures strongly indicate epidermis dysfunction and overexpression of the epithelial inflammation marker Keratin 6 (KRT6) and chitinase CHIT1. No significant changes in the expression levels of known GLS markers, such as VIM, CTNNB1, LGALS7 and ECM1, were detected. However, significant changes in the expression levels of the genes associated with autoimmune diseases and the genes upregulated in squamous cell carcinoma, including TNF, CCNB1 and RUNX3, were observed. There was no enrichment in the polyU/UC insertions that were reported previously. Instead, we have identified a long non-coding RNA DRAIC with a high coding potential that is commonly upregulated in mGLS and VLS. Taken together, our results provide a comprehensive picture of the shared transcriptomic signatures, including novel biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets.Copyright ® 2026 National Research University Higher School of Economics.
Although PD-1 blockade shows strong antitumor efficacy and is being considered for chronic infections including Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M.tb), its influence on early lymphocyte responses to M.tb remains poorly understood. In this study, we characterized the transcriptional and developmental states of pulmonary B and T cells in mice lacking PD-1 after 7 days post-M.tb infection. We found that loss of PD-1 disturbed pulmonary lymphocyte homeostasis, characterized by abnormal regulatory T cell (Tregs) expansion, early exhaustion-like differentiation of cytotoxic T cells, and impaired maturation of memory B cells. These alterations are associated with changes in key transcriptional regulators, including reduced activity of factors promoting effector differentiation (e.g., Runx2, Runx3 in T cells; Tcf4, Pou2f2 in B cells) and upregulation of regulators driving regulatory or suppressive phenotypes (e.g., Ikzf2 in Tregs). Additionally, PD-1 deficiency rewired B-T cell communication with diminished antigen presentation and co-stimulation while amplifying proinflammatory signals. These insights provide a transcriptional blueprint for PD-1-mediated immune balance, with implications for host-directed therapies in tuberculosis.IMPORTANCEWhile PD-1 inhibition can boost protective T cell responses, it has also been linked to increased TB susceptibility. Our study reveals that PD-1 plays a previously unrecognized role in shaping the earliest immune responses to M.tb. In mice lacking PD-1, lung lymphocytes failed to develop in a balanced manner: regulatory T cells expanded excessively, cytotoxic T cells showed signs of early exhaustion, and memory B cell maturation was delayed. These changes disrupted the normal communication between B and T cells, weakening adaptive immunity while amplifying inflammation. By defining PD-1 as a critical organizer of early lymphocyte fate, our findings highlight the risks of indiscriminate PD-1 blockade in infectious contexts and point toward more precise strategies for host-directed TB therapies and vaccine design.
Langerhans cells (LCs) are long-lived, tissue-resident mononuclear phagocytes that form dense networks in stratified epithelia and migrate to draining lymph nodes to maintain immune tolerance. LC development and their immature epithelial identity depend on TGF-β family signaling, however the transcriptional effectors downstream of this pathway remain incompletely defined. Here, we identify the basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor BHLHE40/DEC1 as a positive regulator of LC lineage commitment and epithelial identity. Transcriptomic profiling of an in vitro LC differentiation system from human hematopoietic progenitors revealed rapid induction of BHLHE40 downstream of TGF-β1-TGFBR1/ALK5 signaling. Lentiviral knockdown and overexpression demonstrated that BHLHE40 promotes LC differentiation, while its loss skews cells toward a monocyte and monocyte-derived dendritic cell fate. Loss of BHLHE40 reduced phosphorylation of SMAD2/3, impaired expression of RUNX3, and decreased expression of epithelial markers including E-cadherin, EpCAM, TROP2, and AXL. In human skin, BHLHE40 is broadly expressed in steady-state LCs but downregulated in psoriatic LCs. Supporting a conserved role in vivo, Bhlhe40-deficient mice exhibit disruption of the epidermal LC network, while LC-specific heterozygous mice show reduced LC accumulation in skin-draining lymph nodes. Together, these findings identify BHLHE40 as a previously unrecognized transcriptional regulator connecting canonical TGF-β1 signaling to epithelial LC homeostasis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The precise mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of idiopathic inflammatory myopathy (IIM) remain undefined. However, there has been increasing recognition that tissue-resident memory cells (TRMs) play an important role in the pathogenesis of systemic autoimmune disease. In IIM, TRM-associated transcriptional signatures have been reported, but on a very limited basis. By using multimodal single-cell RNA sequencing analysis in our established murine model of histidyl-tRNA synthetase (HRS)-induced myositis, we identified a prominent population of CD4+ TRMs in inflamed skeletal muscle. Muscle CD4+ TRMs exhibited high expression of genes encoding Cd69, Cxcr6, Runx3, and Prdm1, alongside low expression of Klf2, Ccr7, Sell, S1pr1, and Tcf7 - a profile that is generally consistent with previous reports of TRM gene signature and that we validate through comparison to transcriptomic profiles of human muscle tissue. Detailed pathway analysis in our model indicates that muscle CD4+ TRMs contribute to innate immune regulatory pathways enriched for TNF and IFN-γ signaling. Furthermore, analysis of TCR clonotype distribution and CDR3 sequence similarity revealed pronounced clonal expansion of CD4+ TRMs relative to other T-cell subsets - a pattern that remained stable from 2 to 6 weeks post-immunization. Collectively, these results suggest a potential role for CD4+ TRMs in the pathogenesis of autoimmune myositis.
Background/Objectives: Our prior epigenome-wide association study (EWAS) on multiple sclerosis (MS) identified myeloid-associated methylation signatures and an association with enhancer regions. Here we compared differential DNA methylation across three central nervous system inflammatory disorders: MS, neuromyelitis optica (NMO), and neurologic post-acute sequelae of COVID-19 (neuro-PASC). Methods: Whole-blood DNA was profiled on Infinium MethylationEPIC arrays. Analyses included EWAS at the CpG level, differentially methylation region (DMR) analysis, and gene regulatory-element enrichment using Locus Overlap Analysis (LOLA). Limma linear models were adjusted for race, EPIC array version, age, sex, disease-modifying treatment class, and blood cell composition. Results: All three diseases were associated with broad CpG-level differential methylation. The most robust findings were disease-specific DMR signatures in gene regulatory regions. All three diseases shared Lamin B1-anchored chromatin states as an architectural genomic feature but differed in immune regulatory transcription factor binding sites (TFBS), RNA polymerase (Pol II) occupancy, and DNase accessibility. MS was enriched for TFBS in myeloid CEBPB and SPI1/PU.1 and lymphocyte-associated RUNX3, EBF1, and BATF. MS hypomethylated DMRs were concentrated at active enhancers and myeloid TFBS, suggestive of chronic myeloid activation. NMO showed the clearest promoter and B lymphocyte associated profile. Neuro-PASC was associated with hematopoietic DNase accessibility and TFBS for BATF and EBF1. Conclusions: These results suggest that DNA methylation in MS, NMO, and neuro-PASC differ meaningfully in regulatory architecture rather than conforming to a single shared disease-associated methylation model. A long-term goal is to develop immune therapies for newly recognized diseases such as neuro-PASC.
Within days of exposure to chronic viral infections, activated CD8+ T cells differentiate into Tcf1-Slamf6loTim3hi exhaustion-prone effector T (TEX_EFF) cells or self-renewing Tcf1+Slamf6hiTim3lo precursor exhausted T (TPEX) cells. Here we showed that early CD8+ TEX cell fates were imprinted by forming subset-specific, self-associating chromatin hubs. Chromatin hub assembly coincided with effector or stemness gene induction and identified the transcription cofactors Id2 and Id3 as key regulators that promoted CD8+ TEX_EFF and CD8+ TPEX cell fates, respectively. Id2 drove CD8+ TEX_EFF cell specification by activating effector genes, while suppressing genes involved in exhaustion and stemness. In contrast, Id3-repressed effector genes but upregulated IL-7Rα and AhR, thereby maintaining the CD8+ TPEX cell pool. Mechanistically, Id2 and Id3 exhibited a distinct impact on the chromatin accessibility landscape in early CD8+ TEX cells by engaging Runx3 and Tcf1 transcription factors along with E proteins. These findings indicated that reshaping chromatin architecture represents a critical means for specifying CD8+ TEX cell fates and ensuring lineage stability.© 2026. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the US; foreign copyright protection may apply.
Bacteria are frequently attacked by viruses, known as phages, and rely on diverse defence systems to survive. While phages can evade defences by covalently modifying their DNA, these non-canonical nucleobases create molecular signatures that bacteria can exploit. Here, using structure-guided discovery, we identified two widespread families of anti-phage DNA glycosylases, Dag1 and Dag2. Although DNA glycosylases are classically associated with DNA repair, Dag1 and Dag2 act as antiviral effectors that selectively target phages carrying modified guanine bases. Guided by the conserved glycosylase fold, we uncovered numerous defence-associated glycosylases that collectively form a diverse repertoire of enzymes targeting chemically modified phage DNA. We further identified a distinct glycosylase superfamily that protects against phages carrying modified thymidine bases. Together, these findings establish DNA glycosylases as a versatile class of bacterial immune proteins and highlight structure-guided discovery as a powerful strategy for uncovering hidden antiviral defences.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Ischemic stroke (IS) is a cerebrovascular disease with high mortality and disability rates, currently lacking effective therapeutic targets. The STING inhibitor SN-011 shows potential in IS treatment, but its mechanism of action remains unclear. This study aims to explore the key molecular mechanisms of SN-011 in treating IS through bioinformatics approaches. IS transcriptome datasets were analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes. Mendelian randomization using brain eQTL and IS-GWAS data identified genes with causal relationships to IS. Single-cell transcriptome, pseudo-time trajectory, intercellular communication, and transcription factor regulatory network analyzes were performed. Molecular docking and DARTS-WB assay validated SN-011 binding to transcription factors. Transcriptomic analysis identified 77 intersecting genes. Mendelian randomization revealed ADGRE5 as a protective gene for IS (OR < 1), significantly downregulated in venous endothelial cells (vECs) during disease progression. Cell communication analysis showed ADGRE5-high vECs interact with immune, glial, and stromal cells via LAMININ (Lamb2-CD44, Lamb2-Itga6+Itgb1, Lamb2-Dag1 pair) and JAM signaling pathways. Transcription factor analysis identified JUNB as a negative regulator of ADGRE5. Molecular docking (-6.8 kcal/mol) combined with an in vitro DARTS-WB assay confirmed the interaction between SN-011 and JUNB. In OGD-induced endothelial cell injury models, SN-011 suppressed JUNB expression, restored ADGRE5 expression inhibited by JUNB overexpression, reversed the downregulation of LAMB2 and CD44, and reduced the expression of the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6 and IL-1β. Notably, blockade of LAMB2 largely abolished these protective effects, indicating that the anti-inflammatory and endothelial-protective activities of SN-011 are mediated, at least in part, through restoration of the LAMB2-CD44 signaling axis. ADGRE5 downregulation in vECs may impair vascular repair by disrupting LAMININ-mediated intercellular communication. SN-011 may exert neuroprotective effects by targeting JUNB to upregulate ADGRE5 expression and restore the vEC-centered cellular communication network, providing a theoretical basis for SN-011 as a potential IS therapeutic.© 2026 The Author(s). Chemical Biology & Drug Design published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Limb-girdle muscular dystrophies (LGMDs) are disorders with an important clinical heterogeneity, usually involving proximal limb muscles. One subtype, LGMD R16 (LGMD 2P), is an autosomal recessive condition caused by pathogenic variants in DAG1, with clinical presentations ranging from mild to extremely severe forms. DAG1 is responsible for producing dystroglycan, an essential complex in the muscular protein network. Following translation, dystroglycan is cleaved into alpha-dystroglycan, which undergoes glycosylation and acts as a sarcolemmal receptor for extracellular proteins, and beta-dystroglycan, which connects to dystrophin. In recent years, heterozygous nonsense or frameshift DAG1 variants have been linked with asymptomatic hyperCKemia (increased serum creatine kinase levels) or mild muscular phenotypes characterized by fatigability and myalgia. Here, we describe a Romanian family comprising four affected individuals (one father and three sons) carrying the heterozygous missense DAG1 variant NM_004393.6:c.887G>A, NP_004384.5:p.(Gly296Asp) and showing a mild-moderate muscular phenotype similar to previous cases of DAG1 haploinsufficiency. Three of the affected individuals exhibit myopathic changes in muscle biopsies (increased fiber size variability, internalized nuclei, and regenerating fibers), while two demonstrate reduced alpha-dystroglycan glycosylation in muscle tissue. Atomic force microscopy findings in myoblasts from one patient showed a significantly lower stiffness compared to controls. These findings align with prior reports and further support the pathogenicity of this variant.Copyright © 2026 Edoardo Malfatti et al. Human Mutation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Heart failure (HF) and body mass index (BMI) share substantial genetic architecture, which may lead genetically informed target discovery to preferentially identify adiposity-related pathways. We sought to identify circulating proteins associated with HF beyond this shared genetic component.We applied GWAS-by-subtraction to overall HF, nonischemic HF, and nonischemic HF with reduced or preserved ejection fraction to derive BMI-related and BMI-subtracted HF components. We then performed proteome-wide cis -pQTL Mendelian randomization and colocalization using four independent proteomic cohorts, followed by tissue-specific eQTL colocalization, cardiac transcriptomic annotation, and druggability assessment.Compared with the original HF phenotypes, the BMI-subtracted components showed attenuated genetic correlations with BMI (0.045-0.147) while retaining 28 independent loci for overall HF and nine for nonischemic HF. Across 19,930 protein-HF tests, 11 associations involving nine proteins were prioritized by the Mendelian randomization and colocalization analyses. For example, a 1-SD increase in genetically predicted CELSR2 abundance was associated with lower overall HF risk (odds ratio, 0.96 [95% CI, 0.94-0.98]; P =8.6×10 -7 ), whereas a 1-SD increase in genetically predicted CSF3 abundance was associated with higher nonischemic HF risk (odds ratio, 1.32 [95% CI, 1.18-1.48]; P =2.0×10 -6 ). CELSR2 and TMEM106B colocalized with cis -eQTLs in failing left ventricular myocardium, and DAG1 showed cardiomyocyte enrichment with concordant downregulation in failing hearts.We identified nine circulating proteins associated with HF beyond the genetic component shared with BMI. These findings extend the range of genetically supported pathways implicated in HF and nominate candidate proteins for further mechanistic and therapeutic investigation.What Is New?: GWAS-by-subtraction separated HF genetic susceptibility into BMI-related and BMI-subtracted components, allowing proteome-wide target discovery to focus on HF associations beyond the genetic component shared with BMI.Proteome-wide Mendelian randomization and colocalization prioritized nine circulating proteins.Integration with cardiac molecular data provided additional support for selected proteins, including failing-left-ventricular eQTL colocalization for CELSR2 and TMEM106B and cardiomyocyte expression with concordant myocardial downregulation for DAG1.What Are the Clinical Implications?: Accounting for shared BMI-related genetic liability may extend human genetics-guided target discovery to HF pathways that could be overlooked when conventional HF GWAS are used as the disease outcome.The findings illustrate that therapeutic interpretation must consider the genetically supported direction of effect. The LPA association was consistent with Lp(a) lowering, whereas the CSF3 and RSPO3 results did not support straightforward repurposing of existing pharmacological strategies.The prioritized proteins provide candidates for further functional and therapeutic investigation, but replication and experimental validation are needed before their clinical relevance can be established.
Idiopathic nephrotic syndrome (iNS) is clinically classified by treatment response; however, the molecular basis of multidrug resistance remains poorly defined. We hypothesized that multidrug-resistant disease represents a distinct biological state rather than a more severe form of active disease.Serum proteomic profiling using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was performed in 165 pediatric and young adult patients with iNS, stratified as steroid-dependent nephrotic syndrome (SDNS), multidrug-dependent nephrotic syndrome (MDNS), or multidrug-resistant nephrotic syndrome (MRNS), and compared with healthy donors. Differential expression, pathway enrichment, and multivariate modeling were used to identify discriminative proteins. Selected biomarkers were validated using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and independently replicated in a separate validation cohort. Functional effects of patient-derived sera were assessed in cultured human podocytes and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs).Of 810 quantified proteins, 322 differed significantly across clinical groups. A 35-protein signature discriminated MRNS from MDNS and SDNS phenotypes. Integrated analyses identified dystroglycan 1 (DAG1), CD44 antigen (CD44), and RISC-loading complex subunit (TARBP2) as principal contributors to phenotype separation. ELISA confirmed increased DAG1 in MRNS, preserved TARBP2 in remission, and increased CD44 in active disease. Sera from patients with MRNS induced coordinated alterations in cytoskeletal organization, proteostasis, autophagy, and survival signaling in podocytes. An inverse distribution of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) chaperone BIP (GRP78) and phosphorylated AKT (pAKT) was observed in both serum-treated podocytes and patient PBMCs.MRNS is associated with a distinct proteomic and functional profile characterized by coordinated stress-response dysregulation, supporting biologically informed disease stratification.© 2026 The Author(s).
Unexplained recurrent spontaneous abortion (URSA) accounts for approximately 50% of all recurrent spontaneous abortion cases, severely endangering the physical and mental health of women of childbearing age. Yang-Xue-An-Tai Decoction (YXAT), a traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) in-hospital preparation, has been clinically effective and safe for URSA treatment for over 30 years, but its underlying mechanism remains unclear.The purpose of this study was to explore the pharmacological mechanism of YXAT in the treatment of URSA, focusing on clarifying its multi-target mechanism in regulating the differentiation of decidual stromal cell (DSC) subtypes.The classic Clark mouse model of URSA was established to verify YXAT's improvement effect on abortion. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was employed to construct the uterine single-cell atlas of model and YXAT-treated mice at gestational day 7.5 (GD7.5). YXAT's regulation on decidualization was verified by detecting decidualization markers; decidual stromal cell subtypes were analyzed, and its regulatory effect on subtype differentiation was confirmed via pseudotime analysis and intercellular communication. Moreover, YXAT's role in regulating abnormal decidual stromal cell differentiation in URSA was validated in animal and clinical samples.YXAT significantly improved decidualization and improved pregnancy outcomes in URSA mice. Subcluster analysis of DSCs revealed that proliferating DSCs (proDSCs)-a central hub for DSC differentiation-were abnormally downregulated in URSA mice, and this reduction was restored by YXAT, with a significantly better effect than that of the positive drug dydrogesterone. Integrated analysis identified Lgals1 as a key overlapping gene regulated by YXAT and linked to proDSC differentiation. We propose that Lgals1 acts as a candidate regulator, and the recovery of Lgals1 expression coincides with the restoration of proDSC differentiation following YXAT treatment. Additionally, URSA mice exhibited enhanced NK cell-proDSC communication with excessive inflammatory activation (e.g., Spp1-Cd44, Gzma-Pard3) and immune suppression-related ligand-receptor pairs (e.g., Spp1-(Itgav + Itgb5), Lamb2-Dag1), which were attenuated by YXAT. The abnormal downregulation of proDSCs was further verified in human URSA samples, highlighting its clinical relevance.Disordered proDSC differentiation correlates with defective decidualization and adverse pregnancy phenotypes in URSA mice. Multiple favorable cellular and molecular changes are observed alongside YXAT intervention, including recovered proDSC abundance, restored expression of the differentiation-associated gene Lgals1, and normalized abnormal NK cell-proDSC intercellular signaling. These correlative observations offer new insights into the clinical potential of YXAT and advance our understanding of TCM interventions against URSA.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC) provides structural integrity to the sarcolemma, and disruption of the DGC leads to muscular dystrophy. A core member of the DGC is dystroglycan (DG), which binds to extracellular ligands via α-DG and intracellular cytoskeleton via β-DG. Mutations in DAG1 or genes involved in the posttranslational processing of DG lead to a subset of neuromuscular diseases referred to as dystroglycanopathies. The importance of the α-DG extracellular interactions is well established; however, little is known about the significance of the β-DG intracellular interactions. Here, we investigate the importance of intracellular β-DG in neuromuscular health. Using a mouse that lacks a large intracellular region of β-DG (residues 777 to 893), we show that the deletion of cytoplasmic β-DG leads to skeletal muscle pathology accompanied by postsynaptic disruption. Our data show that within the specialized neuromuscular junction (NMJ), cytoplasmic β-DG is necessary for the localization of utrophin and rapsyn, and clustering of acetylcholine receptors. Moreover, we provide evidence that the postsynaptic abnormalities contribute to neuromuscular dysfunction in mice lacking the cytoplasmic region of β-DG. Further, using a mouse model that only lacks the C-terminal tail (residues 879 to 893) of β-DG, we demonstrate that skeletal muscle and NMJ health rely on β-DG residues 777 to 878. Together, our mouse models suggest that deletion of the cytodomain of β-DG surprisingly results in very severe neuromuscular pathophysiology in mice. Our results identify β-DG as a critical player in shaping and maintaining neuromuscular synapse architecture in vivo, thus further defining the molecular mechanisms underlying neuromuscular health.
Impaired glymphatic clearance has been implicated in Alzheimer's disease (AD) through reduced clearance of amyloid-β (Aβ) and other metabolites from the brain. Mislocalisation of aquaporin-4 (AQP4), a water channel protein anchored to astrocytic endfeet by the dystrophin-associated complex (DAC), has been linked to increased Aβ accumulation, neurodegeneration and cognitive impairment. In animal models, genetic ablation of DAC subunits, leading to AQP4 mislocalisation, increases Aβ accumulation. Genetic variation in AQP4 has been examined in the context of AD, but variation in key DAC genes has not been systematically investigated in humans. This study examined whether variation within glymphatic pathway genes is associated with AD-related phenotypes in individuals on the AD trajectory.Associations between genetic variation in glymphatic pathway-related genes (AQP4 and three DAC genes: DAG1, DTNA, and SNTA1) and brain Aβ burden, cognition and regional brain volumes were analysed in two longitudinal cohorts of cognitively unimpaired older adults who were Aβ-positive or demonstrated ongoing Aβ accumulation. Linear regression models assessed cross-sectional and longitudinal outcomes within each cohort, followed by a meta-analysis. Pathway-based glymphatic genetic risk scores (G-GRS) were constructed to assess cumulative genetic impact.At the single-variant level, AQP4, DTNA, and DAG1 showed significant associations with cognition, grey matter atrophy, and ventricular volume after correction for multiple testing. Variants in AQP4 (rs10502478 and rs10164026) were associated with differences in cross-sectional PACC scores. Whilst rs45556134 within DTNA was associated with grey matter atrophy. Further, six variants (rs13079082 DAG1, rs8092794, rs17642885, rs7233779, rs78837792 and rs79500711 DTNA) were associated with cross-sectional ventricular volumes. At the polygenic level, higher G-GRS were associated with lower grey matter volume, faster grey matter atrophy, larger ventricular volumes and lower cognitive composite scores.Variation within key glymphatic pathway genes is associated with early differences in cognition and neurodegeneration-related brain measures in cognitively unimpaired Aβ-positive older adults. These findings support a contributory role for glymphatic pathway dysfunction in early AD-related brain vulnerability and identify glymphatic pathway genetic risk as a potential marker for risk stratification. A limitation of this study is the absence of direct experimental measures of glymphatic clearance function, which will be required to confirm the functional impact of these genetic findings.
Multisite chronic pain (MCP) is a complex and increasingly prevalent health issue that significantly impairs quality of life. This study aims to identify potential therapeutic targets for MCP through a proteome-wide Mendelian randomization (MR) approach. We conducted a proteome-wide MR to explore the causal associations of plasma proteins with MCP. MCP used data from a genome-wide association study including 387,649 samples. We used protein data from UKB-PPP including 54,219 samples as the discovery analysis, and from Finngen as the replication analysis. Multiple follow-up analyses were used to investigate the potential function of the candidate proteins. Finally, druggability evaluation and phenome-wide MR analysis were used to assess the priority of these targets. We identified 11 plasma proteins significantly associated with MCP. Increased levels of LRP11, BCHE, DAG1, and SUOX exhibited protective effects, while LATS1, CEP170, SLC27A4, HEXIM1, ECM1, C8B, and MST1 increased MCP risk. After multiple validations, ECM1, C8B, LRP11, BCHE has the strongest convincing evidence. Besides, mediation analysis found 4 reliable combinations, revealed the role of plasma proteins in traits influencing MCP. Finally, druggability evaluation and phenome-wide MR indicated that C8B, and BCHE had the highest priority.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Environmental pollutant exposure has been associated with chronic kidney disease (CKD), yet specific chemicals related to renal function variation remain incompletely characterized.We analyzed the plasma exposome using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) in 734 biopsy-confirmed CKD patients (452 IgA nephropathy [IgAN] and 282 membranous nephropathy [MN]), quantifying 62 chemical exposure species. Associations between exposures and estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) were assessed using regression models and were further evaluated in an independent external cohort (Shanghai Brain Aging Study, SBAS) of 464 older adults. In addition, clinical remission status was assessed after a median follow-up of one year, and its associations with specific chemicals were subsequently evaluated. Proteomic data were integrated to explore protein features related to the exposure-eGFR association in the MN subgroup.In the discovery CKD cohort, two PAHs, biphenyl and 2,6-dimethylnaphthalene, were associated with lower eGFR after multivariable adjustment, a finding also observed in the external SBAS cohort. Moreover, in the MN subgroup, these two PAHs were also associated with remission status. Proteomic profiling in MN patients identified six proteins (CDH1, CALR, PTGDS, DAG1, PEBP4, and YIPF3) with statistically significant interaction terms for the biphenyl-eGFR association.Combining exposome and proteome analysis, this study identified exploratory associations between PAHs and renal function in CKD patients, and these effects may be related to certain key proteins.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Bone remodeling depends on the coordinated balance between osteoclast-mediated resorption and osteoblast-mediated formation. Although Indian hedgehog (Ihh) is known to regulate skeletal development and bone homeostasis, its direct involvement in osteoclastogenesis remains unclear.We generated a novel mouse model, Ctsk-CreERT2; Ihhfl/fl, to investigate the role of Ihh in osteoclast lineage cells. Skeletal phenotypes were assessed by radiography, micro-CT, histology, dynamic histomorphometry, and three-point bending tests. Bone marrow macrophages were isolated to assess osteoclast precursor viability, RANKL-induced osteoclast differentiation, F-actin ring formation, and bone resorptive activity using CCK-8 assays, TRAP staining, phalloidin staining, and resorption pit assays. Osteoclastogenic gene expression and signaling pathway activation were examined by RT-qPCR and Western blotting.IhhCKO mice exhibited reduced body weight and an osteosclerotic phenotype, characterized by increased metaphyseal trabecular bone mass, improved femoral peak load and stiffness, and reduced cortical bone parameters. Histological analyses revealed fewer TRAP-positive osteoclasts on trabecular surfaces, increased osteoblast-related parameters, and decreased cortical bone formation indices. In vitro, Ihh deficiency reduced osteoclast precursor viability, impaired RANKL-induced osteoclast formation, decreased F-actin ring number/size and nuclei per osteoclast, and markedly reduced resorption pit formation. Mechanistically, Ihh loss suppressed osteoclast marker and fusion-related genes and diminished RANKL-induced JNK phosphorylation, c-Fos, NFATc1, and CTSK expression.Osteoclast-lineage-derived Ihh is required for efficient RANKL-induced osteoclastogenesis and bone resorption, at least in part by sustaining the JNK/c-Fos/NFATc1 axis. These findings identify Ihh as an osteoclast-intrinsic regulator of postnatal bone remodeling.
Infantile hepatic hemangioma (IHH) can cause severe complications such as high-output cardiac failure and growth faltering, requiring prompt diagnosis and intervention. In the absence of standardized treatment guidelines, propranolol has emerged as an effective and well-tolerated therapy. We report a female infant with multifocal IHH who presented with high-output cardiac failure, hepatomegaly, and growth faltering. She experienced rapid and sustained clinical as well as radiologic improvement with propranolol therapy. This case reinforces propranolol's role as a safe, effective first-line therapy for symptomatic IHH and underscores the importance of early multidisciplinary care.© 2026 The Author(s). JPGN Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The European Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition and the North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition.
Lonicera japonica polysaccharides have been reported to possess anti-tumor potential, but their effects and mechanisms in thyroid cancer remain insufficiently defined. In this study, an acidic pectic polysaccharide, WLJP-025p (average molecular weight 23 kDa; purity 93.7%), was screened for selective anti-proliferative activity against IHH-4 papillary thyroid cancer cells. Based on the carbohydrate-recognition properties of galectin proteins and bioinformatics analysis of thyroid cancer datasets, Gal-3 was selected as a candidate WLJP-025p-interacting protein. Fluorescence spectroscopy and biolayer interferometry further supported a biochemical interaction between WLJP-025p and Gal-3. Functionally, WLJP-025p suppressed IHH-4 cells proliferation and migration, reduced Gal-3/FAK/SRC-associated signaling, and impaired glycolysis and mitochondrial respiration-related functional readouts as indicated by ECAR and OCR assays. In a nude mouse xenograft model, intratumoral WLJP-025p administration reduced tumor growth and downregulated Gal-3/FAK/SRC-associated protein signals in tumor tissue. These findings suggest that WLJP-025p suppresses IHH-4 thyroid cancer cell proliferation at least partly through a Gal-3-associated FAK/SRC signaling pathway and provide proof-of-concept evidence for further development of L. japonica polysaccharides as anti-tumor macromolecules.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Effective intra-hospital handovers (IHHs) are fundamental to patient safety and high-quality care in critical care settings. Research identifies a lack of standardized knowledge and handover protocols. This quality improvement study aimed to enhance nurses' performance in intra-hospital handover in ICUs by implementing an educational package.This quality improvement study used a pre-post, single-group design. Of 167 ICU nurses, 155 nurses met the inclusion criteria and were enrolled. Each nurse's performance in intra-hospital handover was assessed twice: once before and once after the intervention, with each nurse serving as their own control. The intervention consisted of a 90-minute lecture, a printed educational booklet, and an educational poster. A validated 38-item checklist was used to evaluate nurses' performance across pre-transfer, during-transfer, and post-transfer phases. Data were analyzed using SPSS version 16, with a significance level set at p < 0.05.Higher post-intervention frequencies were observed across all three handover phases (p < 0.001). The total median IHH score increased from 103 (IQR = 15) before the intervention to 138 (IQR = 9) afterward. For safety-related practices, checking vital signs before transfer was documented in 51.0% of pre-intervention observations compared to 89.0% post-intervention. Coordinating with the destination department rose from 54.2% to 92.3%. Providing explanations to patients or families was observed in 17.4% of pre-intervention cases versus 89.7% post-intervention. During transfer, the responsible nurse remained with the patient in 30.3% of pre-intervention observations compared to 96.1% post-intervention. In addition, clinical handover by the accompanying nurse increased from 51.6% to 93.5%.The educational intervention was associated with improvement in adherence scores across multiple domains, including patient safety, patient/family communication, documentation, coordination, and equipment/route preparation. These findings suggest that a low-cost, multimodal educational intervention may contribute to improving handover quality in critical care settings. Nevertheless, infection control practices remained an area requiring ongoing reinforcement, highlighting the need for continued quality improvement efforts.Not applicable.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42469912 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42464793 is a review article
Isolated hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (IHH) is a rare endocrine disorder caused by genes such as ANOSI (OMIM*300836), FGFR1 (OMIM*136350), PROK2 (OMIM*607002) and PROKR2 (OMIM*607123) (etc.), leading to downstream dysfunction of pituitary gonadotropin secretion and subsequent impairment of gonadal function. Clinical manifestations include incomplete or partial puberty and infertility.In this study, whole-genome sequencing of a female patient with HH identified a novel 5' splice site variant c.285 + 772 T>G in the deep intron of PROK2 (NM_001126128.2). In vitro minigene validation revealed abnormal splicing of this variant, with 69 base pairs retained in intron 3, ultimately leading to changes in protein length, which may lead to changes in protein structure. According to the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) pathogenicity classification, this variant is rated as likely pathogenic variant (LP).PROK2 variants can lead to HH and we report a case with a novel splice site variant that has been confirmed to lead to the retention of 69 base pairs in intron 3 during RNA splicing.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Genetics & Genomic Medicine published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Oral propranolol, with or without corticosteroids, has been shown to benefit diffuse infantile hepatic haemangioma (IHH); randomized trial evidence is lacking. We aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of propranolol monotherapy versus propranolol plus prednisone for the treatment of problematic IHHs to determine whether oral prednisone provided an added benefit to propranolol.We conducted an open-label, multicenter, randomized controlled trial across six referral centers in China from July 2019 to November 2023 (clinicaltrials.gov registration: NCT03331744). Infants with problematic diffuse IHH were assigned (1:1) to oral propranolol alone or propranolol plus a short course of prednisone. The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients who achieved a lesion response at week 4 on serial ultrasound. Analyses followed the intention-to-treat principle.Forty-five patients were included in this study (propranolol, n = 22; propranolol plus prednisone, n = 23). Four weeks following treatment, lesion response rates were higher with propranolol plus prednisone than with propranolol alone [21/23 (91.3%) vs. 13/22 (59.1%); difference: 32.2%; 95% confidence interval (CI) = 6.9%-53.5%; P = 0.007]. Compared with monotherapy, combination therapy yielded higher lesion response rates during weeks 1-3, more rapid stabilization of thyroid-stimulating hormone levels during weeks 2-4, and a greater overall volumetric response at month 6 (91.3% vs. 63.6%; difference: 27.7%; 95% CI = 3.1%-49.3%; P = 0.026). Total adverse events were similar between the groups, and no grade 3-4 adverse events were observed.Addition of prednisone to propranolol in patients with diffuse IHH markedly improved lesion response rates. Propranolol plus prednisone represents a valid treatment for diffuse IHH.© 2026. The Author(s).
The urothelium is a stratified epithelium that lines the inner surfaces of organs in the urinary drainage system. It has a layered composition of basal, intermediate, and large superficial cells. The process, by which this cytoarchitecture develops from uncommitted precursor cells, is not well understood. In this study, we analyzed the cellular and molecular functions of the transcription factor ΔNP63 in urothelial development in the murine ureter. ΔNP63 expression begins in epithelial progenitors of this organ at embryonic day (E)14.5 and is confined to basal and intermediate cells from late fetal stages onward. In mice with a conditional loss of ΔNp63 in the epithelial progenitors, the ureteric urothelium presented as a folded monolayer composed predominantly of partially differentiated superficial cells around birth. At E15.5, the proliferation and division planes of epithelial cells remained unaffected. However, genes essential for cell adhesion and division in other epithelial stratification programs were downregulated, as were genes involved in basal and intermediate cell differentiation. In contrast, Ihh expression in the epithelium increased concomitantly with the premature formation of the lamina propria. Our results suggest that a conserved ΔNP63 gene regulatory module is responsible for epithelial stratification and the differentiation of basal and intermediate cells, as well as the timely differentiation of the lamina propria in fetal ureter development. The urothelial cytoarchitecture was progressively reconstituted in ΔNp63-deficient ureters after birth. This suggests that a few ΔNP63+ epithelial progenitors, which have escaped recombination, can undergo rapid proliferative expansion and differentiation into intermediate and basal cells.NEW & NOTEWORTHY This study aimed to characterize the cellular and molecular function of the transcription factor ΔNP63 in the development of the urothelium in the murine ureter. Through comprehensive transcriptomic analyses of a conditional mouse mutant, we discovered that ΔNP63 not only regulates genes essential for cell division and adhesion in the epithelial stratification program but is also required for the expression of genes essential for the differentiation of basal and intermediate cells.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a highly effective anthracycline chemotherapeutic agent whose clinical utility is limited by dose-dependent cardiotoxicity. Although oxidative stress and mitochondrial injury are established mechanisms, the contribution of regulated metal-dependent cell death (MCD) pathways remains incompletely defined. This study investigated the ferroptosis and cuproptosis role in doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity (DIC) and evaluated the protective effects of luteolin (LUT) and nanoliposomal LUT using an integrated network pharmacology and experimental validation approach in rats. Network pharmacology identified multitarget interactions linking LUT with oxidative stress, metal homeostasis, and cell death signaling pathways. In vivo, DOX administration induced marked cardiac dysfunction, elevated serum cardiac injury biomarkers, myocardial histopathological damage, and ultrastructural abnormalities. These changes were accompanied by significant cardiac iron and copper accumulation, increased malondialdehyde (MDA), depleted superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione (GSH), reduced glutathione peroxidase-4 (GPX4) activity, and increased tumor protein p53 (TP53) expression. At the molecular level, DOX downregulated the ferroptosis-protective genes, SLC7A11 and SLC3A2, while upregulating the iron transport genes, transferrin receptor 1 (TFR1) and SLC39A14, together with the cuproptosis-related genes ferredoxin-1 (FDX1) and SLC31A1, while suppressing ATP7A. These changes were further supported by altered protein expression of SLC7A11, ATP7A, and TP53. LUT significantly ameliorated these functional, biochemical, molecular, and structural alterations, indicating suppression of both ferroptotic and cuproptotic signaling. Nanoliposomal LUT showed superior efficacy to free LUT across most assessed parameters. Collectively, these findings support the involvement of ferroptosis and cuproptosis related signaling in DIC and highlight LUT, particularly in nanoliposomal form, as a promising cardioprotective strategy against anthracycline toxicity.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42411627 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42400642 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42303625 is a review article
Condylar cartilage maintains the structure and function of temporomandibular joint (TMJ), with disturbances leading to potential osteoarthritis (OA). Though current research has indicated that transferrin receptor (TFRC) regulating ferroptosis affects the progression of TMJOA, its role in cartilage homeostasis remains unclear. Therefore, we constructed unilateral anterior crossbite (UAC) and cartilage-specific Tfrc conditional knockout (Tfrc-cKO) mice. The expressions of iron transportation-associated genes including TFRC and SLC39A14, and ferroptosis-related markers were detected in TMJ cartilage through immunofluorescence, immunohistochemical staining, western blot, and quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) assays. Knockdown of Tfrc and knockdown of Drp1 by small interfering RNA in ATDC5 cell line under mechanical overloading were used to investigate the mechanism in vitro through western blot, qPCR, and flow cytometry assays. Deferiprone was utilized to verify the pathway in vitro and in vivo. Both the control and Tfrc-cKO mice with UAC developed cartilage degradation and subchondral bone resorption. While the former showed upregulated TFRC and SLC39A14 expression in condylar chondrocytes, the latter exhibited increased SLC39A14 expression alone with elevated ferroptosis markers. Under normal circumstances, cytoplasmic p53 induced ubiquitinated degradation of SLC39A14 mediated by SIAH1. However, under Tfrc knockdown and mechanical overloading, increased DRP1 expression and its Ser616 phosphorylation promoted mitochondrial p53 translocation and reduced SLC39A14 ubiquitination degradation. Both siDrp1-mediated knockdown and deferiprone treatment modulated DRP1 expression to attenuate mitochondrial p53 translocation and alleviate TMJOA progression by suppressing ferroptosis. Our findings demonstrate the role of TFRC and SLC39A14 in maintenance of cartilage homeostasis with DRP1-mediated mitochondrial p53 translocation, offering insights into potential treatment strategies for TMJOA.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Portland Press Limited on behalf of the Biochemical Society.
Zinc is recognized as an important component of immune function in animals, operating through many different mechanisms. Metal transporter Zip14 (Slc39a14) is up-regulated during pro-inflammatory conditions and increases zinc uptake into cells, including enterocytes. As reported here, global Zip14 deletion in mice leads to excessive intestinal mucus accumulation and markedly increased fecal levels of the enteric microbe Akkermansia muciniphila. RNA sequencing showed up-regulation of a relatively small number of genes expressed in enterocytes isolated from Zip14 knockout (KO) mice. Compared to wild-type (WT) mice. Among the most up-regulated genes were St6galnac1 (ST6) and Muc2, both of which are involved in the synthesis of intestinal mucin. ATAC sequencing and ChIP assays using NF-κB antibodies demonstrated that open chromatin is the likely cause of the increased expression of these mucin-forming proteins. The differences in fecal Akkermansia abundance, inflammatory cytokine expression, and St6 and Muc2 expression were alleviated in KO mice when either orally dosed with pasteurized Akkermansia or provided a single oral gavage of zinc. Collectively, these experiments show that zinc delivery via Zip14 is necessary to limit chromatin accessibility for specific regulatory factors that influence mucin production and cause dysbiosis. These findings represent an example of a genome-nutrient-microbial interrelationship.
Lysosomes play a key role in the accumulation, catabolism, and transport of endogenous and exogenous metabolites and proteins and are involved in drug metabolism and prodrug activation. However, the protein abundance and interindividual variability of lysosomal drug-metabolizing enzymes and transporters (DMETs) remain underexplored. In this study, we performed a global proteomics analysis of the enriched human liver lysosomal fraction to characterize and annotate lysosomal proteins and compared these results with the proteomics data of hepatocyte homogenates and the liver microsomal fraction. We annotated and quantified 66 hydrolases and 41 membrane transporters in the lysosomal fractions. These included proteins involved in prodrug activation, transport, and metabolism or functioning as drug targets. After confirming the identity of lysosomal proteins, we investigated age-dependent changes in the abundance of these proteins in human hepatocytes (n = 58) across various age groups, ranging from neonatal (0-12 days) to adulthood (>18 years). We observed age-specific variations in the expression of key hydrolases (CTSA, CTSL, NAGLU, PLD3, and GALNS) and transporters (ATP6V1B2, ATP6V1C1, TMEM63A, and SLC39A14). Together, these findings highlight the lysosomal localization of proteins involved in drug disposition and their dynamic developmental changes, providing critical insights for refining physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) models to support precision dosing and improve therapeutic outcomes in pediatric populations.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Pharmacology & Therapeutics published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Society for Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a deadly malignancy with poor outcomes. Although there are various treatments for HCC, including surgery, transplantation, and systemic therapy, the overall prognosis remains poor and recurrence after surgical resection is high. Thus, the development of new techniques and new drugs is necessary. In this study, we evaluated the antitumor activity of Atractylon, a bioactive molecule extracted from a Chinese herb of the genus Atractylodes. The results showed Atractylon inhibited proliferation of HCC cells by arresting them at G2/M phase of cell cycle and suppressed their migration and invasion. Using TMT-labeled quantitative proteomics and ferroptosis-related functional assays, we revealed that Atractylon induced HCC ferroptosis by facilitating the accumulation of intracellular Fe2+ and reactive oxygen species (ROS), as well as lipid peroxidation. Further study revealed that Atractylon upregulated expression of SLC39A14 (ZIP14), a metal transporter of the hepatocyte membrane. Atractylon-induced ferroptosis and subsequent inhibition of cell proliferation were significantly alleviated following the knockdown of SLC39A14 expression. In summary, this study revealed that Atractylon effectively induced ferroptosis in HCC through the upregulation of SLC39A14 expression and may be a promising candidate for the development of anti-HCC drugs.© 2026. The Author(s).
Recurrent spontaneous abortion (RSA) remains a major challenge in reproductive medicine, with unclear etiology in a substantial proportion of cases. Emerging evidence suggests that ferroptosis contributes to trophoblast dysfunction and may be involved in RSA pathogenesis. This study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic effects of Anzi Tiaochong Tang (AZTCT) on RSA and to elucidate its underlying molecular mechanisms, with a particular focus on ferroptosis.An RSA rat model was established using hydroxyurea and mifepristone to assess the therapeutic efficacy of AZTCT in vivo. For mechanistic investigation, ferroptosis was induced in human trophoblast HTR-8/SVneo cells using erastin. N6-methyladenosine methylation (m6A) was analyzed by bioinformatics, methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP), and dual-luciferase reporter assays. Loss- and gain-of-function experiments, including METTL14 knockdown and SLC39A14 overexpression, were performed to validate the regulatory pathway.AZTCT significantly improved pregnancy outcomes in RSA rats and enhanced trophoblast cell viability and migration while suppressing ferroptosis in vitro. Mechanistically, AZTCT upregulated METTL14 expression, which in turn increased m6A modification of SLC39A14 mRNA. This modification facilitated YTHDF2-dependent recognition, leading to reduced mRNA stability of SLC39A14. Functional rescue experiments further demonstrated that SLC39A14 overexpression reversed the protective effects mediated by METTL14.AZTCT alleviates RSA, at least in part, by inhibiting trophoblast ferroptosis through the METTL14/m6A/YTHDF2/SLC39A14 axis. These findings provide mechanistic insight into the therapeutic potential of AZTCT and identify a novel epigenetic target for RSA treatment.Copyright © 2026 Huang, Yu, Luo, Chen, He, Ma, Ning and Wu.
Osteosarcoma is a common primary bone malignancy with poor prognosis. While microRNA dysregulation has been implicated in osteosarcoma progression, the role of exosome-mediated miRNAs, particularly miR-875-3p, in regulating ferroptosis and tumor progression remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate whether miR-875-3p promotes osteosarcoma proliferation, migration, and invasion by targeting SLC39A14 and inhibiting ferroptosis.Exosomes were isolated from osteosarcoma tissues and H143B cells, then characterized by transmission electron microscopy as well as Western blot. Bioinformatics analysis and dual-luciferase assays identified SLC39A14 as a direct target of miR-875-3p. Lentiviral and adenoviral transfection were used to knockdown miR-875-3p and SLC39A14 in H143B cells. Cell viability, migration, and invasion were assessed using CCK-8, wound healing, and Transwell assays. Ferroptosis markers (GSH/GSSG, Fe²⁺, ROS, MDA) and related genes (GPX4, ACSL4, xCT) were eventually measured.Exosomes isolated from osteosarcoma tissues exhibited a typical spherical morphology and were positive for exosomal markers (HSP70, TSG101). MiR-875-3p was upregulated in osteosarcoma tissues and cell-derived exosomes, while SLC39A14 was downregulated. Knockdown of miR-875-3p upregulated SLC39A14, promoted ferroptosis, and suppressed osteosarcoma cell proliferation, migration, and invasion in vitro. In contrast, SLC39A14 knockdown attenuated ferroptosis and enhanced malignant phenotypes. In vivo, miR-875-3p knockdown inhibited tumor growth, whereas SLC39A14 knockdown promoted it.miR-875-3p promotes osteosarcoma progression by targeting SLC39A14 and suppressing ferroptosis, suggesting the miR-875-3p/SLC39A14 axis as a potential therapeutic target for osteosarcoma treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564173 is a review article
Despite the growing therapeutic importance of peptides such as glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) analogues, their analytical characterization has received comparatively limited attention. Reversed-phase liquid chromatography (RPLC) remains the reference technique for peptide purification and analysis; however, the pronounced structural and physicochemical diversity of therapeutic peptides, spanning linear, macrocyclic, and disulfide-rich scaffolds, underscores the need for complementary separation strategies. This study aimed to expand the analytical toolbox for therapeutic peptide characterization by evaluating ion-exchange chromatography (IEX). Four IEX columns were assessed: two strong cation exchangers (ProPac 3R SCX and BioPro IEX SF Accura) and two strong anion exchangers (ProPac 3R SAX and BioPro IEX QF Accura), all tested in 2.1 × 50 mm formats to reduce sample consumption and analysis time. Initial evaluations using standard protein IEX methods revealed they were unsuitable for the target therapeutic peptides. To optimize the separation, salt gradients at pH 2.0 (cation exchange chromatography) and pH 10.0 (anion exchange chromatography) were evaluated alongside alternative pH-gradients, specifically a classic phosphate-citrate mixture and a polyamine-based tri-buffer mixture (pH 2.5-9.0). Among the approaches tested, salt-gradient elution consistently provided superior performance. The prevalence of secondary hydrophobic interactions significantly impacted chromatographic performance, necessitating the addition of at least 30% acetonitrile (ACN) to mitigate peak broadening and improve peptide recovery. To evaluate stability-indicating capability, the developed IEX methods were benchmarked against an in-house reference RPLC purity method through forced degradation studies. Finally, we explored the use of IEX retention behavior to estimate peptide pI values, illustrating both the potential and the current limitations of ion-exchange chromatography for the characterization of therapeutic peptides.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Tendon injuries cause pain and functional limitations, posing a clinical burden due to poor healing and recurrence. Combining mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), tissue-specific extracellular matrix (ECM) scaffolds, and bioactive factors may enhance tendon regeneration. This study investigated integrating adipose-derived MSCs (AD-MSCs) seeded on a decellularized tendon scaffold (DTS) with G-CSF injection for tendon repair.DTS was prepared from rat Achilles tendons through freeze-thaw cycles and sodium dodecyl sulfate decellularization, preserving ECM structure. In vitro, AD-MSC viability, tenogenic gene expression, and scratch wound closure were assessed in response to G-CSF ± DTS. In vivo, a rat Achilles tendon defect model included: control (CTL), DTS, DTS with G-CSF, and DTS and AD-MSCs with G-CSF. After 6 weeks, histology, immunohistochemistry, collagen quantification, gene expression, and immunofluorescence analyses were performed.DTS maintained AD-MSC viability and tenogenic differentiation in vitro by upregulating SCX, COL1, and TN-C. G-CSF (1000 ng/mL) enhanced AD-MSC-mediated wound closure in the presence of DTS extract. In vivo, DTS with AD-MSCs and G-CSF showed organized collagen alignment, reduced cellularity and inflammation, increased collagen deposition, and the highest total collagen content. Furthermore, it exhibited upregulation of SCX, TN-C, COL1, THBS-4, and DCN, an improved COL1/COL3 ratio, reduced IL-6, MMP3, and MMP13, and increased IL-10, CXCR4, SDF-1, CD34, and CD31 compared with other groups.DTS combined with AD-MSCs and G-CSF injection demonstrated the most favorable histological and molecular tendon repair profile, including enhanced tenogenic marker expression, improved ECM remodeling, increased homing- and vascular-associated marker expression, and modulation of inflammatory responses.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
The amino acid sequence requirements that instruct the modification of proteins with chondroitin sulfate (CS) have been unknown, precluding predictions or opportunities for precise protein engineering. This study identified an essential amino acid motif for CS addition, the "CS-sequon" (EDQDDKDGGDFSGWGG), by comparing the secreted sulfatases SULF1 and SULF2, where only SULF2 is CS-modified. A cluster of seven amino acids plus a nearby tryptophan are critical for CS attachment; inserting the CS-sequon into SULF1 enabled it to gain CS modification. This sequon recruits the activity of the CS-initiating xylosyltransferase to the peptide modification site and CS addition enhances SULF1/2 extracellular abundance and enzymatic activity. These findings were validated across human and non-human cells and in Drosophila, providing a foundational resource for engineering CS modifications into proteins.
Acute or chronic rotator cuff tears are major causes of shoulder dysfunction, motivating the development of scaffolds with tailored thickness and mechanics for supraspinatus tendon regeneration. This study aimed to investigate the effect of bilayer poly(butylene adipate-co-terephthalate) (PBAT) scaffold thickness on the tenogenic differentiation of rat adipose mesenchymal stem cells (r-AdMSCs) and supraspinatus tendon regeneration. Aligned fibers with a diameter of approximately 476 nm were deposited onto randomly oriented layers at different times (4 h; 4S, 6 h; 6S, 8 h; 8S), and scaffolds with increasing thicknesses from 441 µm (4S) to 1132 µm (8S) were produced. Mechanical testing showed comparable tensile strength for 4S and 6S (≈1.9-2.0 MPa) and modulus (5.5-7.3 MPa), while 8S exhibited markedly reduced stiffness (0.5 MPa) and hyper elastic deformation. Mechanical performance across degradation conditions remained strongly thickness-dependent: thinner scaffolds retained integrity and strengthened, with modulus increases during hydrolytic and enzymatic degradation, whereas thicker matrices showed limited remodeling and instability. Rat-AdMSCs' were cultured on the scaffolds for 21 days. Cell-free and cell-laden mechanical responses further reflected thickness effects: cell-free samples stiffened due to media-induced passive matrix tightening, whereas cell-laden scaffolds showed extracellular matrix (ECM)-driven reinforcement, most prominently in 4S, which reached 2.1 MPa tensile strength with improved elasticity and balanced deformation. The 4S scaffold exhibited the highest tensile strength and significantly increased collagen-1 (col1), tenomodulin (tnmd) and scleraxis (scx) expression compared with the other groups. In conclusion, among all groups, 4S scaffolds demonstrated the most favorable mechanical and biological performance, suggesting that scaffold thickness plays a critical role in regulating tendon regeneration and will become even more suitable when matured in bioreactors.
Jinfeng pills (JFP), a well-known traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) consisted of 9 herbs, benefit Qi, nourish the blood, effectively regulate the menstrual cycle, promote ovulation and improve endometrial thickness and blood flow. Previous studies have shown that JFP has certain effect on premature ovarian insufficiency (POI). In this prospective cohort study, the effect and mechanisms of JFP on the outcomes of in vitro fertilization and embryo transfer (IVF-ET) in poor ovarian response(POR) was investigated.Patients diagnosed with POR based on the Bologna criteria were prospectively randomized into two groups: the JFP group and the POR group. Young patients with normal ovarian reserve were included in the Control (Con) group. The live birth rate (LBR), levels of estradiol (E2), progesterone, total testosterone (TT), and insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) in the follicular fluid (FF) and outcomes of IVF-ET were compared. Network pharmacology, combined with transcriptomics and proteomics, was used to identify core targets and signaling pathways. Molecular docking was performed to evaluate the interactions between the core components of JFP and the identified targets.Compared with the Con group, the POR group presented significantly lower levels of E2 [1302.00 (985.50, 1464.50) ng/mL vs. 2561.00 (2190.50, 3084.00) ng/mL] and TT [2.41 (1.45, 3.15) ng/mL vs. 5.12 (4.00, 6.79) ng/mL] in FF (P < 0.017). These levels were greater in the JFP group [E2: 2450.00 (1603.00, 2842.00) ng/mL; TT: 2.85 (2.08, 4.55) ng/mL] than in the POR group (P < 0.017). IGF-1 levels in FF [79.60 (64.00, 88.50) ng/mL vs. 87.90 (78.80, 112.00) ng/mL], the implantation rate, and the LBR per treatment were significantly lower in the POR group than in the Con group (P < 0.017), while there was no significant difference compared with those in the JFP group (P > 0.05). The birth weight and height of the infants did not differ significantly among the three groups (P > 0.05). Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses revealed seven core genes (ALPL, HPSE, KRT1, LDLR, METTL7B, TGFBI, and TMOD1) and one key pathway (glycosaminoglycan degradation). Molecular docking confirmed strong binding activity between the core components of JFP and these genes.JFP enhances the ovarian levels of steroid hormones in poor ovarian responders undergoing IVF-ET. The therapeutic effects of JFP may involve the regulation of ALPL, HPSE, KRT1, LDLR, METTL7B, TGFBI, TMOD1, and the glycosaminoglycan degradation pathway.© 2026. The Author(s).
Acral melanoma (AM) is characterized by a high incidence of distant metastasis. Although the genomic characterization of AM has been explored, the landscape of AM in different stages is still a critical factor to be researched. We performed single-nucleus RNA sequencing analysis in three nevi, seven primary AM, four skin metastases, and three lymph node metastasis specimens. Cell subpopulations were characterized. The identified marker was verified in clinical samples, and the function was further validated by in vitro and in vivo experiments through establishing a knockdown cell line. A total of 13 types of cells were identified from 17 samples. Ten cancer cell subtypes were profiled through comprehensive analysis. Analysis identified Cancer cells_TGFBI to be the potential progressive subpopulation, and SERPINE2 was the top differentially expressed gene. SERPINE2 knockdown significantly suppressed melanoma cell growth and invasion, and downregulated the EMT pathway. Cancer-associated fibroblast (CAF) had the second largest number of cells. A new cluster, Fibroblast_TNXB, was identified and had potential correlation with melanocyte differentiation and development. The above findings demonstrated the tumor heterogeneity of AM. SERPINE2 had the potential to be a therapeutic target for melanoma, and Fibroblast_TNXB may link to melanocytic differentiation, highlighting new microenvironmental crosstalk in AM.© 2026. The Author(s).
Adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs) are increasingly explored for tendon regeneration owing to their accessibility and multipotency. Low-level laser therapy (LLLT), also referred to as Photobiomodulation (PBM), has emerged as a promising non-invasive approach for modulating cellular behavior. However, directing their differentiation into tenocytes remains an ongoing focus of optimization. This study investigates the synergistic effects of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) and PBM on the tenogenic differentiation of ADSCs. ADSCs were cultured and exposed to specific PBM wavelengths (525 nm, 825 nm, and consecutive irradiation) at 5 and 10 J/cm2, both in the presence and absence of TGF-β. Tenogenic differentiation was evaluated using morphological assessments, gene expression analysis of key tenogenic markers (SCX, TNC, COL1A1, COL3A1, and DCN), morphology changes, and biochemical assays. The results reveal that PBM, especially at 525 nm and 5 J/cm2, in conjunction with TGF-β, significantly enhances tenogenic gene expression, ECM protein deposition, and cellular alignment indicative of tenocyte phenotype. These findings support a promising dual-modality approach to enhance ADSC tenogenic commitment and inform future tendon tissue engineering strategies.Copyright © 2026 Mpanza, Abrahamse and Crous.
Processed meat products represent a major challenge for proteomic species identification due to extensive thermal treatment and protein structural changes. In this study, species-specific peptides in pork, chicken, and bovine meat products were identified using a directed fragmentation-assisted de novo sequencing workflow that combines 4-formylbenzene-1,3-disulfonic acid (FBDA) peptide derivatization, dual-polarity data-independent mass spectrometry (DIA-MS), and Protein Acrobat de novo sequencing software. Comparative analysis of non-fractionated and strong cation exchange (SCX)-fractionated pork luncheon samples improved peptide and protein identification after fractionation, with 312 peptides and 115 protein groups detected exclusively in fractionated samples. Species-specific peptides were predominantly assigned to conserved muscle-related proteins, including myosin, troponin, and tropomyosin, while sequence variability enabled reliable species discrimination despite protein conservation across species. To evaluate applicability for food fraud detection, mixed meat samples containing 10% chicken in pork or bovine matrices were analyzed, reflecting potential economically motivated adulteration through substitution with lower-cost meat components. Several chicken-specific peptides remained detectable in both mixtures, demonstrating robustness of the FBDA-assisted peptide sequencing combined with SCX fractionation and DIA-MS for detection of adulteration in complex processed food matrices. These findings establish a mass spectrometry-driven orthogonal method to ELISA testing for fast, reliable and accurate metaproteome analysis of highly processed food.
Intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD) is characterized by excessive inflammation and extracellular matrix (ECM) degradation in the nucleus pulposus (NP), with limited current therapeutic options. Specialized pro-resolving mediators (SPMs) such as Maresin 1 (MaR1) have emerged as key regulators of inflammation resolution and tissue repair. Here, we report that MaR1 and its receptor LGR6 are significantly downregulated in degenerated human NP tissues, suggesting a loss of endogenous resolution capacity. Exogenous MaR1 administration effectively attenuated IL-1β-induced inflammation and ECM degradation in human NP cells and alleviated IVDD progression in rat models. Mechanistically, MaR1 simultaneously suppressed the catabolic AP-1/MMP pathway and activated the pro-anabolic OSR1/GDF7 axis, rebalancing ECM homeostasis. Notably, the therapeutic efficacy of MaR1 was completely abrogated in Lgr6-knockout mice, demonstrating that LGR6 is the indispensable mediator of MaR1's protective effects in vivo. Our findings identify the MaR1-LGR6 axis as a critical regulator of disc homeostasis and highlight MaR1 supplementation as a novel and promising strategy for IVDD treatment.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Background: Benzo[a]pyrene (BaP), a common food contaminant, is a recognized gastric carcinogen. This study aimed to identify therapeutic targets and repurposed drugs for gastric cancer (GC) using BaP as a network toxicology query. Methods: An integrated strategy combining network toxicology, multi-omics, machine learning (Random Forest, LASSO, SVM-RFE), and experimental validation was applied. Results: By intersecting GC-associated genes with BaP-related targets and machine learning, we identified three hub genes. The logistic regression model further revealed KCNE2 as a protective factor (OR = 0.515, 95% CI: 0.383-0.692), while SULF1 (OR = 2.940, 95% CI: 1.399-6.179) and TIMP1 (OR = 5.351, 95% CI: 2.020-16.743) were identified as potential risk factors. Survival analysis confirmed their prognostic significance. Single-cell transcriptomics descriptively showed TIMP1 and SULF1 enrichment in malignant/stromal cells and fibroblasts, respectively, whereas KCNE2 was restricted to normal epithelial cells and silenced in tumors. GSVA implicated epigenetic regulation, ECM remodeling, and TGF-β signaling. Molecular docking and dynamics simulations suggested that BaP can form stable complexes with DNMT1 and DNMT3A. Accordingly, drug enrichment analysis identified DNMT inhibitor 5-azacytidine as a top candidate. Cellular experiments confirmed that 5-azacytidine selectively inhibited GC cells and was associated with modulation of the DNMT3A-KCNE2 axis. Conclusions: Our findings provide a novel molecular target and a repurposed drug for GC from the perspective of a food contaminant.
Human kidney potassium (K+) handling evolved to clear massive Paleolithic loads, functioning as a high-capacity survival mechanism to prevent lethal hyperkalemia. This review elucidates the molecular machinery underlying this adaptation, identifying the WNK-SPAK-OSR1 kinase network as the central regulator. We detail how the distal convoluted tubule functions as a sensory organ, utilizing an "NCC switch" driven by intracellular chloride to resolve the "aldosterone paradox". This adaptation ensures K+ secretion is prioritized over Na+ reabsorption during high intake. Furthermore, we examine the roles of the gut-kidney axis and the molecular circadian clock as anticipatory feed-forward mechanisms that prime the kidney for excretion prior to absorption. This framework integrates the flow-dependent gating of BK channels, the acid-base sensitivity of ROMK, and the electroneutral pendrin/KCC3a pathway as redundant "fail-safe" valves necessary to clear massive Paleolithic K+ loads. Finally, we conclude that while the modern diet rarely challenges this massive excretory potential, the machinery remains biologically wired to prioritize the purging of K+, ensuring survival by preserving resting membrane potential above all else.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42471779 is a review article
Mandibular incisors are the most frequently congenitally absent teeth in Asian populations, affecting mastication, speech, aesthetics, and oral and maxillofacial functions over the long term. However, the genetic etiology of mandibular incisor agenesis (MIA) remains obscure. In this study, we conducted the first genome-wide association study on MIA in a Chinese population and identified an enhancer variant, rs71514987, associated with an increased risk of MIA (odds ratio, 2.18; 95% CI, 1.83 to 2.58; P = 3.62 × 10-19). Functional characterization indicated that the rs71514987 C allele reduced the binding affinity of GATA4 to the OSR2 promoter, leading to increased OSR2 expression via remote regulation. Notably, elevated OSR2 levels promoted cell proliferation but diminished cell differentiation, migration, and apoptosis capabilities in stem cells from human exfoliated deciduous teeth, as well as abnormal development of pharyngeal teeth in zebrafish models. Mechanistic experiments further revealed that OSR2 bound to the promoter region of CXCR4, promoting its transcription level in the GPCR pathway, thereby influencing odontogenic differentiation during tooth development. Our findings provide novel insights into the molecular etiology of MIA.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42417108 is a review article
Host genetic susceptibility to urogenital Chlamydia trachomatis (Ct) reinfection remains poorly understood. Coding variants identified in prior genome-wide association studies (GWAS) explained only a small fraction of the risk of reinfection. Our goal in this study was to characterize whether more risk would be captured by sequence variation that traditional GWAS insufficiently captures. Specifically, we evaluated the risk attributable to SNPs present in regulatory, non-coding regions; post-transcriptional regulation by microRNAs (miRNAs) that may depend on sequence variation in either the miRNA or the target mRNA; and copy number variants (CNVs). We analyzed GWAS data from African American women with or without documented urogenital Ct reinfection. Fine mapping and independent association analyses identified 30 unique index single-nucleotide polymorphisms (iSNPs), which were expanded to variants in linkage disequilibrium. Regulatory annotation was performed using HaploReg, RegulomeDB, FORGEdb, rSNPBase, and GTEx. We examined whether genes identified in the Ct reinfection GWAS are targeted by known Ct infection-associated microRNAs using curated databases. Genome-wide CNV calling was conducted using SNP intensity data, followed by stringent quality control and gene-level association testing. Functional annotation prioritized 7 SNPs with strong regulatory evidence, with stringent criteria for regulatory relevance, using HaploReg, RegulomeDB, FORGEdb, and rSNPBase. The strongest signals were observed at the CHIT1 locus, where multiple intronic variants (including rs2486963 and rs2244385) overlapped regulatory chromatin, altered transcription factor binding motifs, and acted as cis-expression quantitative trait loci for CHIT1 in whole blood. Additional regulatory variants were identified near TDRP, ERICH1, and DLGAP1, showing tissue-specific regulatory effects. MicroRNA analysis revealed extensive post-transcriptional targeting of SOCS6 and SULF1, while CHIT1 showed no curated Ct-associated miRNA interactions. CNV analysis identified 5775 high-confidence events, with nominal gene-level associations observed for ATAD3A, CARD14, TMEM240, and ZNF140. These results indicate that a greater fraction of the susceptibility to urogenital Ct reinfection may be driven by genetic variation affecting immune and epithelial pathways rather than protein-coding changes.
Odd-skipped-related 2 (OSR2), encoded by the OSR2 gene, has been reported to function as a checkpoint associated with CD8⁺ T-cell exhaustion in the tumor microenvironment of solid malignancies, suggesting its potential as a therapeutic target to improve immunotherapeutic responses. Nevertheless, the molecular and clinical significance of OSR2 across diverse cancer types has not yet been systematically investigated, and its pan-cancer expression profile, prognostic implications, and associations with tumor immunity remain to be fully elucidated.In this study, we integrated datasets from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) portal, and the Human Protein Atlas to construct a systematic pan-cancer profile of OSR2. The prognostic value of OSR2 was comprehensively assessed using univariate Cox regression, survival analysis, and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. In addition, we performed an in-depth analysis of the relationships between OSR2 and multiple molecular and immunological features, including copy number variation (CNV), DNA methylation, tumor mutational burden (TMB), microsatellite instability (MSI), immune-related gene expression, immune cell infiltration, and drug sensitivity, with the aim of exploring its potential immunological associations with the tumor microenvironment.OSR2 expression was significantly upregulated or downregulated in the majority of tumor tissues relative to normal counterparts and exhibited distinct cancer-type-specific patterns across clinical stages. CNV alterations and aberrant DNA methylation were closely associated with abnormal OSR2 mRNA expression in multiple cancers. Prognostic analyses indicated that OSR2 expression was significantly associated with overall survival, disease-specific survival, disease-free interval, and progression-free interval across multiple cancer types, showing either risk-associated or protective associations in a tumor-context-dependent manner. Furthermore, OSR2 expression showed strong associations with immune cell infiltration, particularly T-cell subsets, and was significantly correlated with the expression of multiple immune checkpoint-related genes across diverse malignancies. OSR2 expression was also closely associated with TMB, MSI, and sensitivity to multiple anticancer agents.Taken together, these findings suggest that OSR2 is associated with prognosis and immune-related features across multiple cancer types. OSR2 may be linked to features of the tumor immune microenvironment through its relationships with immune cell infiltration, immune checkpoint gene expression, and genomic instability, and thus may serve as a candidate biomarker for further investigation in cancer immunotherapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Seizures upregulate Na + -K + -2Cl - (NKCC1)-mediated Cl - influx and downregulate K + -Cl - (KCC2)-mediated Cl - efflux via the WNK-SPAK/OSR1 kinases, leading to cytoplasmic chloride ([Cl - ] i ) accumulation, reduced GABAergic inhibition and anticonvulsant failure. Early studies found that inhibiting WNK-kinase reduced baseline [Cl - ] i (E Cl ) and seizures via increased KCC2 activity. However, increased KCC2 activity alone should not affect E Cl whose determinants are more complex. We determined the net effects of WNK-SPAK/OSR1 pathway inhibitor WNK463 on E Cl and [Cl - ] i transients during spontaneous ictal-like discharges (ILDs). We found that WNK463 reduced interictal [Cl - ] i but did not change baseline [Cl - ] i measured in the presence of TTX. WNK463 enhanced neuronal Cl - extrusion during and after ILDs, before abolishing ILDs. Pharmacological inhibition and targeted siRNA silencing demonstrated that the anti-ictal effects of WNK463 involved both NKCC1 and KCC2. Thus, mutual NKCC1 inhibition and KCC2 activation via the WNK-SPAK/OSR1 pathway exert powerful anti-ictal effects by facilitating [Cl - ] i extrusion during ILDs.
A single nucleotide variant rs34562254 in TNFRSF13B, which encodes TACI (transmembrane activator and CAML interactor), is associated with an increased risk of myeloma and MGUS. This variant encodes a proline to leucine substitution at residue 251 in the long isoform (P251L) and residue 205 in the short isoform (P205L) of TACI. Using HEK293 cells, NF-κB signalling of the variant and wild type forms of TACI was measured by using an NF-κB-luciferase reporter assay and by quantifying NF-κB p65 subcellular localisation. The TACI P205L variant showed substantially reduced NF-κB activity compared to the wild type version of the short isoform. This result suggests an indirect effect of TACI P205L on the increased risk of myeloma.© 2026 The Author(s). European Journal of Haematology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
With recent advances in high-throughput proteomic technologies, population-scale plasma proteomics datasets, often linked to extensive genetic and phenotypic information, have become increasingly accessible. Yet the relationships between circulating protein levels, brain imaging phenotypes, and risk for neurological and psychiatric disorders remain largely unexplored. Proteome-wide association studies offer a promising approach for elucidating biological mechanisms that connect genetic variation to complex brain-related traits and diseases. In this study, we integrated protein quantitative trait loci (pQTLs) from the two largest plasma proteomic resources (the UK Biobank Pharma Proteomics Project [UKB-PPP] and Ferkingstad et al. [deCODE]) with genome-wide association studies of brain imaging-derived phenotypes in UK Biobank using Mendelian randomization and colocalization analyses. We identified 120 cis and 20 trans associations between plasma proteins and imaging phenotypes and validated these findings using brain tissue-derived proteomic and transcriptomic datasets. Multivariable Mendelian randomization revealed eleven plasma proteins (coding genes APOE, ARL3, MICB, NSF, RHOC, RSPO3, ENPP2, BTN2A1, EIF2AK3, MRVI1, and OPLAH ) with significant direct effects on the risk of Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia. Single-cell expression and pathway enrichment analyses further revealed cell-type-specific effects and distinct biological processes underlying these protein- disease associations. Together, these findings demonstrate robust links between plasma protein variation and brain structure, delineate protein-disease pathways, and highlight the cellular and molecular mechanisms that contribute to neurobiological diversity and pathology.
Pesticides are major environmental pollutants, and the swim bladder is highly sensitive to chemical stressors. However, the effects of spirodiclofen on swim bladder and the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood despite its widespread environmental detection. In this study, zebrafish embroys were exposed to spirodiclofen to evaluate its impacts on the swim bladder. At 120 hpf, complete failure of swim bladder inflation was observed in the 0.146 mg/L and 0.300 mg/L treatment groups. Swim bladder area decreased by 40.3% and 52.8% (p < 0.01), and locomotor activity was markedly impaired, with total distance reduced by 87.4% and 95.5%, respectively (p < 0.01). RT-qPCR analysis revealed downregulate genes in Hedgehog and Wnt signaling pathways, as well as key developmental markers of swim bladder formation. Spirodiclofen also disrupted the prolactin pathway and significantly reduce Na⁺/K⁺-ATPase activity (p < 0.05), suggesting impaired ion regulation during inflation. Integrative GGE biplot analysis, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulations identified Wnt5b, Atp1b2, and Elovl1a as potential toxicity targets. Environmental monitoring further revealed that the risk quotients (RQ)> 1 at most sampling sites, underscoring the ecological relevance of these findings. Overall, this study provides mechanistic evidence for spirodiclofen-induced swim bladder toxicity and supports ecological risk assessment and the design of safer alternatives.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Background: Pathogenic variants in genes that cause skeletal dysplasias may, instead of producing classic findings, present in children with a phenotype whose hip radiographs resemble bilateral Legg-Calvé-Perthes disease (LCPD). Objectives: This study aims to investigate the efficacy of genetic diagnosis in children with waddling gait or joint pain and radiological evidence of hip dysplasia mimicking bilateral LCPD. Methods: Forty children with bilateral femoral head dysplasia from 36 families were included in the study. Exome sequencing was performed, and all identified variants were confirmed within the families by Sanger sequencing. Results: Twelve pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants were identified: six in COL2A1, two in COL9A1, and one each in RPL13, EIF2AK3, DNAJC21, and ARSK; six are novel. The diagnostic yield was 33.3% (12/36) in 12 families. Additionally, variants of uncertain significance (VUS), proposed as causative, were detected in five families (5/36:13.9%): two in COL11A1 and one each in COL9A3, COL11A2, and ARSK. Based on bilateral epiphyseal dysplasia of the femoral head, it was observed that seven families may be compatible with mild spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia and six families may have Stickler syndrome. Notably, among these, three children carrying closely localized pathogenic/likely pathogenic variants in COL2A1 shared a novel phenotype characterized by short stature and bilateral irregular femoral heads. In four families, EIF2AK3, DNAJC21, and ARSK were also responsible for the ultra-rare disorders Wolcott-Rallison syndrome, bone marrow failure syndrome 3, and mucopolysaccharidosis 10, respectively. Conclusions: This study, for the first time, investigated the frequency of associated genes in a pediatric cohort with bilateral hip dysplasia resembling LCPD, providing important information for pathogenesis and differential diagnosis.
Monogenic diabetes mellitus (MDM) comprises a heterogeneous group of rare disorders caused by single-gene defects. Data from highly consanguineous Middle Eastern populations remain scarce, which limits the application of precision medicine in these regions.To characterize the genetic spectrum, clinical features, and inheritance patterns of MDM within a large Saudi Arabian cohort.Exome sequencing (ES) and clinical analysis were conducted for 135 Saudi patients from 86 unrelated families. Variants were classified according to ACMG guidelines.The cohort (52.6% male) exhibited a high consanguinity rate of 81%. A molecular diagnosis (Pathogenic/likely pathogenic) was achieved in 73% of families, with autosomal recessive inheritance predominating. Variant of uncertain significance (VUS) accounted for 15% of families. Leading clinical subtypes included MODY (33.3%), syndromic diabetes (27.4%), and permanent neonatal diabetes (23.7%). The most frequently implicated genes were INSR (13%), EIF2AK3 (12%), INS (11%), and GCK (11%). Furthermore, seven novel variants were identified.MDM in Saudi Arabia is characterized by a high burden of autosomal recessive forms, including neonatal and syndromic diabetes, reflecting population structure and consanguinity. These findings highlight the importance of early genetic testing to guide management and genetic counseling.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Coronary arterial disease (CAD) poses a significant public health challenge, with tobacco as the most predominant modifiable risk factor in young individuals. Despite a strong correlation between tobacco use and CAD, many smokers remain CAD-free. This fact raises questions about the complex interplay between environmental and genetic factors that contribute to CAD.Identify genetic polymorphisms that may be responsible for CAD in smokers without the main cardiovascular risk factors.A small retrospective case-control association study included current smokers aged 35-50 with low-density lipoprotein (LDL) levels <100 mg/dL who were non-diabetic and non-hypertensive. A total of 134 individuals (83% male; mean age of 48.9 ± 8.4 years) were selected from the GENEMACOR population: 97 CAD patients defined as having at least 70% stenosis in one major coronary artery, and 37 controls without CAD. Nine genetic variants from 8 genes previously associated with CAD but not with traditional risk factors (TRFs) were genotyped using TaqMan real-time PCR: CDKN2B-AS1, TCF21, PHACTR1, MIA3, ADAMTS7, ZC3HC1, SMAD3, and GJA4. Bivariate analyses compared genotypic proportions between CAD and non-CAD groups, reporting odds ratios (ORs) and confidence intervals (CIs). Multivariate logistic regression evaluates variables independently associated with CAD. The Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium was tested.The intronic PHACTR1 polymorphism rs12526453 C > T was significantly more prevalent in cases, with the dominant model presenting 86.6% in CAD smokers and 70.3% in non-CAD smokers (OR = 2.73; p = 0.028). After logistic regression, which included significant variables in the bivariate analysis, PHACTR1 rs12526453 remained in the model (OR = 3.02; p = 0.038), along with dyslipidemia (OR = 3.58; p = 0.004), obesity (OR = 4.39; p = 0.031), and a family history of CAD (OR = 5.56; p = 0.031).Our findings show that the PHACTR1 T allele is associated with an increased risk of CAD in smokers with a family history, dyslipidemia and obesity, in the absence of other major cardiovascular risk factors. These results support the concept that genetic susceptibility may modulate the vascular response to chronic inflammatory and oxidative stress. Further prospective and functional studies are warranted to clarify the underlying biological mechanisms and the potential clinical value of integrating genetic profiling into personalised cardiovascular risk stratification.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Nonsyndromic cleft lip with or without palate (nCL/P) is a common congenital anomaly with a complex genetic basis. Previous whole-exome sequencing of Malagasy case-parent trios identified variants in several craniofacial development genes, including SEPTIN9, SKI, WNT5B, GPC4, and MSX1, enriched on East Asian ancestry segments. To assess functional contributions, we used Xenopus laevis embryos to evaluate the effects of individual and combined perturbations of candidate genes. Neither single-gene depletion nor ectopic expression of candidate genes induced orofacial clefts, although some craniofacial malformations were observed. In contrast, double knockdown of SEPTIN9 and MSX1 reproducibly produced orofacial clefts. These defects were rescued by co-injection of wild type human SEPTIN9 and MSX1 mRNAs, but not by variant alleles such as SEPTIN9 p.Glu370Lys and MSX1 p.Glu84Val. Our findings reveal a functional interaction between SEPTIN9 and MSX1 in craniofacial morphogenesis and provide experimental evidence for digenic inheritance in nCL/P. This work underscores the importance of ancestry-enriched variant combinations in the etiology of complex congenital anomalies.© 2026 The Author(s). Genes to Cells published by Molecular Biology Society of Japan and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
To investigate the regulatory effect and mechanism of nuclear fragile X mental retardation-interacting protein 1 (NUFIP1) on the apoptosis of dendritic cells (DCs) in septic mice.Nufip1+/- C57BL/6J mice were generated, and Western blotting was performed to verify the protein expression level of NUFIP1 in splenic DCs. A total of 48 SPF male wild-type (WT) mice and Nufip1+/- mice were divided into the sham group (18 mice) and the sepsis group (30 mice). Three independent replicate experiments were conducted, and mice were grouped using a random number table in each trial. The cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) procedure was performed to establish the sepsis model in the sepsis group; mice in the Sham group only underwent laparotomy and cecal separation without ligation. Twenty-four hours after operation, orbital blood was collected. The mice were then sacrificed, and heart, lung, liver, kidney tissues as well as spleens were harvested for isolation and extraction of splenic DCs. Flow cytometry was applied to detect the apoptosis rate of splenic DCs. Western blotting was used to determine the protein expression levels of apoptosis-related proteins including caspase-3, Bcl-2, heat shock protein 5 (HSPA5), eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 alpha kinase 3 (EIF2AK3), phosphorylated EIF2AK3 (p-EIF2AK3), eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2A (EIF2A), phosphorylated EIF2A (p-EIF2A), activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4) and DNA damage-inducible transcript 3 protein (DDIT3) in splenic DCs. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was adopted to detect the serum levels of interleukins (IL-2, IL-4, IL-10), transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) and interferon-γ (IFN-γ). Hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining was performed to observe the injury of heart, lung, liver and kidney under light microscope. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) morphology of splenic DCs was observed under a laser confocal microscope. An additional 20 WT mice and 20 Nufip1+/- mice were respectively assigned to the sham group and sepsis group, with 10 animals in each subgroup. The 7-day survival rate after CLP was observed in all groups.Western blotting results showed that the protein expression level of NUFIP1 in splenic DCs of Nufip1+/- mice was lower than that of WT mice (NUFIP1/β-actin: 1.080±0.233 vs. 2.178±0.440, P<0.05), indicating the successful construction of NUFIP1 gene-deficient mice. Flow cytometry results revealed that the apoptosis rate of splenic DCs at 24 h after CLP in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group was higher than that in the WT sepsis group [(43.41±1.70)% vs. (30.43±4.99)%, P<0.05]. Meanwhile, compared with the WT sepsis group, the protein expression level of caspase-3 in splenic DCs was increased, while the protein expression level of Bcl-2 was decreased in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group (caspase-3/β-actin: 1.23±0.17 vs. 0.59±0.14, Bcl-2/β-actin: 0.46±0.13 vs. 0.72±0.08, all P<0.05). Compared with the WT sepsis group, the serum levels of IL-2 and IFN-γ in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group were decreased [IL-2 (ng/L): 8.54±0.27 vs. 209.70±1.56; IFN-γ (ng/L): 391.60±9.24 vs. 512.70±31.50, all P<0.05], whereas the serum levels of IL-4, IL-10 and TGF-β were increased [IL-4 (ng/L): 73.19±2.38 vs. 28.52±0.98; IL-10 (ng/L): 359.20±2.02 vs. 267.60±5.05; TGF-β (ng/L): 826.20±26.73 vs. 497.30±3.33, all P<0.05], and the IFN-γ/IL-4 ratio was decreased (7.98±0.46 vs. 16.59±0.40, P<0.05). These findings suggested that peripheral immunosuppression was further aggravated in Nufip1+/- mice during sepsis relative to WT mice. HE staining demonstrated that the injury of heart, lung, liver, kidney and other tissues in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group was markedly severer than that in the WT sepsis group, and the 7-day survival rate was lower in Nufip1+/- mice [20% (2/10) vs. 50% (5/10), P<0.05). Compared with the WT sepsis group, the protein expression levels of HSPA5, the ratio of p-EIF2AK3 to EIF2AK3, the ratio of p-EIF2A to EIF2A, ATF4 and DDIT3 in splenic DCs after CLP were all up-regulated in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group (HSPA5/β-actin: 0.93±0.38 vs. 0.34±0.02, p-EIF2AK3/EIF2AK3 ratio: 1.67±0.28 vs. 0.59±0.05, p-EIF2A/EIF2A ratio: 0.90±0.09 vs. 0.61±0.08, ATF4/β-actin: 1.71±0.77 vs. 1.60±0.48, DDIT3/β-actin: 1.18±0.12 vs. 0.56±0.34, all P<0.05). Laser confocal microscopy showed that the morphological changes of ER in splenic DCs of the Nufip1+/- sepsis group were more obvious than those in the WT sepsis group, presenting irregular distortion, swelling and fragmentation.NUFIP1 gene deficiency induces extensive apoptosis of splenic DCs in the early stage of sepsis, further aggravate peripheral immunosuppression, exacerbate multiple organ damage and worsen survival outcomes in septic animals.
Colorectal cancer remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality, with resistance to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) posing a major therapeutic challenge. Thymoquinone (TQ), a bioactive compound derived from Nigella sativa, exhibits anticancer activity; however, its system-level effects in colorectal cancer are not fully understood.RKO colorectal cancer cells were treated with TQ, 5-FU, or their combination for 24 h, followed by genome-wide transcriptomic profiling using oligonucleotide microarrays. Drug interaction effects were assessed using a deviation-from-additivity model. Selected genes were validated by RT-qPCR and Western blotting, and functional relevance was evaluated using bioinformatics analyses.Combined treatment induced extensive network-level reprogramming of pathways associated with apoptosis, cellular stress response, and proliferation. Although no classical transcriptional synergy was observed, the interaction between TQ and 5-FU resulted in coordinated modulation of overlapping signaling networks. Key regulatory genes, including FAS and CYLD, were linked to enhanced pro-apoptotic signaling, whereas BIRC3 and EIF2AK3 were associated with adaptive or resistance-related responses.TQ acts as a context-dependent modulator of chemotherapy response, reshaping cell death and stress-related signaling networks rather than directly enhancing cytotoxicity. These findings highlight the potential of TQ to influence therapeutic responses in fluoropyrimidine-based treatment of colorectal cancer and support further functional and in vivo validation.Copyright © 2026 Kurowska, Kruszniewska-Rajs and Strzałka-Mrozik.
Coronary artery disease has well-established genetic variants but identification of susceptible ones is needed. Ayurveda stratifies people phenotypically termed as "Prakriti" to assess the risk.The present research was aimed to identify Prakriti stratified genetic risks for CAD.Initially, literature search was done using bioinformatics and manual-curation, to identify susceptible SNPs. Further, global-screening-array was performed to evaluate association of these polymorphisms in Prakriti stratified 200 CAD patients and 100 healthy controls. Thereafter, association of these polymorphisms with already done biochemical parameters and biomarkers was explored.Bioinformatic approach resulted in 466 PMIDs reporting 694 SNPs associated with CAD. Further, manual search for only susceptible resulted in 255 susceptible SNPs across 134 candidate genes with 2.09 cumulative odds ratio in diverse populations. Among 255 SNPs, GSA analysis of isolated DNA samples of present cohort identified 5 SNPs (rs1544410, rs731236, rs1801133, rs7975232, and rs3825807) in VDR, MTHFR, ADAMTS7 genes in overall comparisons. While Prakriti stratification showed association of 4 SNPs in Vata, 8 SNPs in Pitta and 1 SNP in Kapha Prakriti group which were comparable with already documented biochemical parameters and biomarkers. Overall, stratification helped in assessing disease predisposition in specific Prakriti like Vata may be predisposed due to inflammatory pathways, Pitta due to Vitamin D deficiency and Kapha due to disturbed glycemic index.Overall, we could identify 255 SNPs as risk factors for CAD in diverse populations and 5 SNPs in Indian cohort. Further, integrating Prakriti stratification could help in identifying more précised risks for personalized CAD management.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
SMARCA4-deficient undifferentiated tumors (SMARCA4-dUT) have been included in the latest WHO classification of tumors. This study examined the cytomorphology, management, molecular features and prognosis of malignancies harboring SMARCA4 alterations.Biopsied cytologic slides were reviewed. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) and clinical data were analyzed.Thirty-four cases with SMARCA4 alterations were identified, including 13 primary and 21 metastatic tumors, sampled primarily from lung (35%), lymph nodes (26%) and liver (15%). Tumor origins were predominantly the lung (61%) and gallbladder (9%). The most common tumor type was adenocarcinoma (70%). Predominant architectures included nested, single-cell, tubular/acinar, and 3D clusters. Cells were most commonly round and columnar, with medium cytoplasm mostly showing vacuoles and granular features. Nuclear grade 2-3 was seen in 93% of cases, with prominent nucleoli and coarse chromatin. SMARCA4 alteration included mutations (32) and loss (2). These tumors are characterized by a high co-mutation burden, including TP53 (62%), KRAS (35%), and STK11 (15%). Prognosis is further modulated by allelic status (biallelic vs. monoallelic vs. subclonal), and mutations in DDR pathway (24%). Most tumors presented as stage IV. 26% received surgical resection. Overall, 74% underwent chemotherapy and 29% radiotherapy. Mean follow-up was 17 months, with 2-year OS of 49.1%. Twenty-three (68%) patients were current or former smokers.SMARCA4-altered malignancies show diverse differentiation and lack consistent cytomorphologic features. Majority of cases were differentiated malignancies and only four cases (12%) were undifferentiated, suggesting SMARCA4 alterations were associated with poor prognosis but were not exclusive drivers of undifferentiated malignancy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and acute myeloid leukemias (AML) harboring TP53 mutations are defined by extreme genomic instability, complex karyotypes (CK), and poor prognosis. While large-scale chromosomal imbalances are common in CK-MDS/AML, the synergy between focal amplifications of signaling drivers and the disruption of transcriptional regulators remains poorly elucidated.We performed a comprehensive clinical, cytogenetic (GTG-banding, M-FISH, M-Band), and molecular (targeted FISH, NGS) analysis of seven patients with MDS and AML characterized by a recurrent and distinct genomic signature.All cases exhibited highly complex karyotypes on a TP53-mutated background. We identified high-level focal amplifications of EPOR (19p13.2) and JAK2 (9p24.1), predominantly manifesting as homogeneously staining regions (HSRs) or complex "sandwich-like" derivative chromosomes. Notably, these signaling alterations consistently co-occurred with monoallelic deletions of the TCF3 (E2A) tumor suppressor (19p13.3) and copy number gains of the ERG transcription factor (21q22). Detailed structural analysis indicates that TCF3 loss likely arises as a structural consequence of chromosome 19 rearrangements driving EPOR amplification. Based on this data, we propose a conceptual model of leukemogenesis where EPOR/JAK2 co-amplification potentially drives constitutive JAK2/STAT5 signaling, while concurrent ERG gain and TCF3 haploinsufficiency contribute to maturation delay. TP53 deficiency appears to be the primary permissive factor enabling the stabilization of these massive structural rearrangements.Our findings outline a recurrent and biologically coherent genomic pattern within the spectrum of TP53-mutated myeloid neoplasms, demonstrating significant phenotypic overlap with erythroid leukemia features in a subset of cases. Given the small cohort size, these findings are hypothesis-generating. However, this convergence of predicted JAK2/STAT5 pathway hyperactivation and transcriptional disinhibition points to a theoretical therapeutic vulnerability that warrants prospective validation in larger collaborative studies.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) are expanding treatment options in endometrial carcinoma, but the distribution of actionable surface targets across histologic, molecular, and genomic subgroups remains incompletely defined.This single-institution retrospective tissue microarray (TMA) study included 312 endometrial carcinomas: 158 endometrioid and 154 serous tumors. Trophoblast cell-surface antigen 2 (TROP2) was quantified by histochemical score (H-score); human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) was assessed using endometrial carcinoma-specific and gastric/DESTINY-PanTumor02 criteria; and folate receptor alpha (FRα) positivity was defined as ≥75% viable tumor cells with ≥2+ membranous staining. Molecular class was assigned using a hierarchical DNA polymerase epsilon (POLE)-mutant, microsatellite instability/mismatch repair-deficient (MSI/MMRd), p53-abnormal, and no specific molecular profile (NSMP) classifier. Tumor mutational burden (TMB) and recurrent genomic alterations were analyzed in relation to biomarker expression.TROP2 was broadly expressed, with median H-scores of 280 in endometrioid and 200 in serous carcinomas. HER2 gastric-score 2+/3+ expression and FRα positivity were enriched in serous versus endometrioid carcinoma (22.5% vs 8.9% and 20.1% vs 4.4%), restricted to FIGO grade 3 tumors, and concentrated in p53-abnormal disease. FRα positivity was absent in POLE-mutant and MSI/MMRd tumors. HER2 2+/3+ expression correlated with erb-b2 receptor tyrosine kinase 2 (ERBB2) alterations, whereas FRα-positive tumors were enriched for TP53 alterations and showed lower frequencies of ARID1A and PTEN alterations. Triple-negative TROP2/HER2/FRα tumors were uncommon (6/308, 1.9%).TROP2 is broadly expressed in endometrial carcinoma, whereas HER2 and FRα define a more restricted high-grade, serous/serous-like, p53-abnormal compartment, supporting biomarker-informed ADC development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Molecular classification has refined risk stratification in endometrial cancer and is now incorporated into the 2023 International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) staging system. However, prospective real-world data on its impact on multidisciplinary tumor board (MDT) decision making remain limited. We evaluated the impact of molecular information on adjuvant treatment recommendations in stage I to II endometrial cancer.This prospective observational study included patients with surgically treated FIGO 2023 stage I to II endometrial carcinoma discussed at MDT between February 2024 and December 2025. Clinicopathologic risk stratification was performed using the ESGO-ESTRO-ESP 2016 criteria. Molecular classification was determined using POLE sequencing and immunohistochemistry for mismatch repair (MMR) and TP53. Estrogen receptor status was not assessed, as no specific molecular profile (NSMP) subclassification was part of the operative framework during the study period. MDT recommendations were recorded before and after the integration of molecular results.A total of 122 patients were included. Molecular subtypes were NSMP in 55 (45.1%), MMR-deficient in 41 (33.6%), TP53-abnormal in 24 (19.7%), and POLE-mutated in two (1.6%). Integration of molecular classification changed MDT recommendations in 25 cases (20.5%), with escalation in 15 (12.3%) and de-escalation in 10 (8.2%). Therapy modification was most frequent in TP53-abnormal tumors (62.5%) compared with other subgroups (10.2%; odds ratio, 14.7 [95% CI, 5.1 to 42.1]; P < .001). No treatment changes were observed in NSMP or POLE-mutated tumors. The net incremental treatment cost was ₹11.8 lakh across the cohort; including molecular testing, the overall incremental cost was ₹34,672 per patient (∼$418 US dollars).Integration of molecular classification modified adjuvant treatment in approximately one fifth of patients. Changes were biologically consistent, supporting the feasibility and clinical utility of molecularly integrated MDT decision making in early-stage endometrial cancer even in resource-constrained settings.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566728 is a review article
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a chronic, progressive lung disease characterized by persistent alveolar epithelial injury and aberrant tissue remodeling. Increasing evidence suggests that senescence of alveolar epithelial cells (AECs) contributes to impaired epithelial regeneration and maladaptive tissue repair by limiting reparative capacity and promoting profibrotic signaling. However, the molecular drivers of AEC senescence and their impact on the immune microenvironment in IPF remain incompletely understood. Here, we investigated senescence-associated genes involved in IPF pathogenesis and evaluated their diagnostic and therapeutic potential. IPF transcriptomic datasets were retrieved from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). Senescence-related differentially expressed genes (SRDEGs) were identified by intersecting IPF-derived differentially expressed genes with a curated human senescence gene list. Functional enrichment analyses were performed to delineate SRDEG-associated biological processes. Hub genes were prioritized using machine-learning approaches, and a diagnostic model was constructed and assessed by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. Candidate genes were further validated through in vivo and in vitro experiments. Given the upstream regulatory role of CHEK2 in DNA damage response-associated cellular senescence, Fostamatinib was screened as a potential therapeutic agent, and its interaction with CHEK2 and functional effects were examined using molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and experimental assays. Two senescence-associated hub genes, CHEK2 and TP53 BP1, were identified as key contributors to IPF pathology (FDR-adjusted P < 0.05), and a model incorporating both genes achieved high diagnostic performance. Experimental validation, however, indicated that only CHEK2 showed IPF-specific differential expression and was closely associated with AEC senescence and fibrotic progression. In silico analyses supported stable binding between Fostamatinib and CHEK2, and subsequent molecular and cellular experiments suggested that Fostamatinib may attenuate CHEK2-associated senescence and profibrotic responses. Collectively, these findings identify CHEK2 as a critical regulator of AEC senescence and IPF development, supporting its potential use as a diagnostic biomarker and therapeutic target. Fostamatinib may represent a candidate therapeutic strategy for IPF by modulating CHEK2-related senescence pathways.Copyright: © 2026 Ding et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566056 is a review article
Pulmonary hypertension is a malignant cardiovascular disease characterized by pulmonary vascular remodeling, with core pathological features including pulmonary arterial wall thickening and elevated pulmonary vascular remodeling due to aberrant proliferation of pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells (PASMCs). The molecular regulatory mechanisms underlying pulmonary vascular remodeling remain incompletely understood.Transcriptome sequencing was employed to screen for differentially expressed genes in lung artery tissues of control and Sugen5416 combined hypoxia-induced rat models. A series of in vitro and in vivo experiments, including scratch assays, EdU staining, Cell Counting Kit-8cell proliferation assays, immunofluorescence, immunoblotting, and overexpression/knockdown techniques, were performed to investigate the molecular mechanism by which KRT17 (keratin 17) induces PASMCs proliferation and promotes pulmonary hypertension vascular remodeling.KRT17 was found to be highly expressed in lung tissues of patients with pulmonary hypertension, as well as in pulmonary arterial tissue and hypoxic PASMCs models. Both in vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated that KRT17 was a critical regulator of PASMCs proliferation. METTL14 (methyltransferasean14, an m6A methyltransferase complex subunit) was identified as a potential modulator of KRT17 RNA methylation, enhancing its RNA stability and protein expression. Furthermore, KRT17 promoted PASMCs proliferation through upregulation of LCN2 (lipocalin-2).Our study reveals a novel molecular mechanism by which KRT17 expression is regulated via METTL14-mediated m6A methylation, and further elucidates the role of KRT17 in inducing PASMCs proliferation through the LCN2 signaling pathway. These findings provide significant theoretical insights for the development of innovative therapeutic targets for pulmonary hypertension.
The expansion and pathogenic differentiation of intermediate monocytes (IMs) are critical yet poorly understood events in psoriasis pathogenesis. Here, we identify the transcription factor PU.1 (encoded by SPI1) as a master regulator driving IM-mediated psoriasiform inflammation. Single-cell RNA sequencing and flow cytometry of peripheral blood mononuclear cells revealed expansion of IMs in psoriasis patients, with PU.1 uncovered as its specific regulator. Myeloid-specific ablation of Spi1 in mice ameliorated imiquimod-induced psoriasiform dermatitis. Mechanistically, PU.1 promoted IMs differentiation into pro-inflammatory M1 macrophages by transcriptionally upregulating Dectin-1, thereby activating the SYK/NF-κB pathway. We further discovered that the clinical-stage bromodomain and extra-terminal domain inhibitor NHWD-870 effectively suppressed PU.1 expression. Oral administration of NHWD-870 demonstrated potent efficacy in murine psoriasis models by disrupting this PU.1-dependent IMs differentiation. Our findings establish PU.1 as a novel therapeutic target for psoriasis and propose that pharmacologic inhibition of PU.1 represents a promising treatment strategy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
A novel thin-layer chromatography (TLC)-based bioassay coupled with digital image analysis (DIA) was developed for rapid and non-targeted screening of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors in complex natural matrices. Conventional ACE inhibitory assays lack spatial resolution and rely on indirect measurements, limiting their applicability for effect-directed analysis (EDA). In this study, an on-surface enzymatic assay was implemented using hippuryl-histidyl-leucine (HHL) as substrate, followed by in situ derivatization of the generated hippuric acid with p-dimethylaminobenzaldehyde (DMAB) in an acetone:acetic anhydride system, producing an orange chromophore directly on the TLC plate. To overcome the inherent subjectivity of visual evaluation, a MATLAB-based DIA workflow was introduced to quantify the colorimetric response as pseudo-absorbance, enabling objective optimization of assay parameters. The blue channel provided the highest analytical sensitivity (R2 = 0.9984), and no significant matrix effects were observed (p = 0.09), confirming the robustness of the approach. Optimal conditions were established at 180 mU mL-1 ACE, 3 mM HHL, 30 min incubation, and 10% (w/v) DMAB. The method was applied to P. boldus alkaloidal extracts, enabling clear detection and localization of inhibitory zones poorly resolved by visual inspection. Subsequent isolation by micro-preparative TLC followed by UHPLC-DAD-MS/MS analysis enabled tentative identification of three aporphine alkaloids: norboldine (m/z 314.20 [M+H]+), boldine (m/z 328.10 [M+H]+), and laurotetanine (m/z 328.10 ([M+H]+). This integrated TLC-ACE-DIA platform, complemented by GNPS-assisted MS/MS annotation, provides a rapid, cost-effective, high-throughput strategy for discovery and prioritization of ACE inhibitors in natural products, significantly enhancing analytical capabilities of effect-directed analysis workflows.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Alzheimer's disease-related plasma biomarker interrelationships and factors underlying these associations remain poorly understood. To address this, we studied the heritability of plasma biomarkers and their associations with cognition. This study included 696 twins, aged 65-85, without a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease or related dementias. Plasma amyloid beta 42 and 40, phosphorylated tau (p-tau) 181 and 217, neurofilament light chain (NfL) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) were quantified with Simoa HD-X, and cognition was assessed with cCOG. Heritability of plasma biomarkers was assessed with multivariate twin models and associations with cognition with linear mixed effect models. Phenotypic associations varied from 0.22 between p-tau181 and GFAP to 0.73 between p-tau181 and p-tau217, and the heritability estimates ranged from 0.39 (p-tau181) to 0.66 (GFAP). Genetic and environmental correlations were 0.32-0.67 and 0.06-0.78, with the strongest correlations observed between p-tau181 and p-tau217. P-tau181 and p-tau217 were associated with cognition (β = -0.12; 95% CI: -0.19--0.04 and β = -0.19; 95% CI: -0.26--0.12, respectively). The observed phenotypic and genetic associations highlight shared underlying mechanisms among plasma biomarkers. Despite p-tau181 and p-tau217 having the strongest genetic and environmental correlations, neither approached unity, implying unique genetic and environmental factors. Our results offer insight into the genetic architecture of diagnostic and progression markers of Alzheimer's disease and inform their use in future gene-finding studies.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) is a global health issue with low survival rates, for which bystander cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) is crucial. In China, bystander CPR rates and public proficiency remain low. Children-an important future first-responder group-also lack adequate training. Gamification and virtual reality (VR) technologies show potential in enhancing training effectiveness, but research on the needs, acceptability, and functional requirements of gamified CPR training kits from children's and parents' dual perspectives is insufficient, providing a realistic basis for this study.This study aimed to investigate children's and parents' needs, acceptability, and functional requirements for the development of gamified CPR training kits.A cross-sectional qualitative design was adopted. Inclusion criteria were children aged 6 to 12 years, their parents, adequate communication skills, and voluntary informed consent, with purposive sampling to recruit 13 parent-child dyads from a primary school in Changsha, Hunan Province. The participants included children aged 6 to 12 years (average age 9.50, SD 1.50 y, 6 boys and 7 girls) and their parents (average age 38.50, SD 2.50 y, 6 female and 7 male individuals). Semistructured interviews were conducted separately for children and parents, with audio recording and verbatim transcription. The NVivo 12.0 (QSR International Pty Ltd) software was used for thematic coding and analysis, and dual independent coding (by 2 researchers) was performed to ensure rigor, with discrepancies resolved through team discussion. Thematic saturation, defined as codebook stabilization and no new themes across 3 consecutive interviews, was achieved after 13 dyads. The study followed the COREQ (Consolidated Criteria for Reporting Qualitative Research) guidelines, and all procedures were approved by the ethics committee.Four main themes and 9 subthemes emerged from the data: (1) children's approaches to acquiring CPR-related knowledge and skills (through school-organized first aid activities, family members, or social media platforms), (2) attitudes toward gamified training kits (children's receptiveness and parental preferences regarding such tools), (3) expectations for gamified CPR training kits (child-friendly design, effective skill training, personalized feedback, and scientifically grounded content), and (4) challenges in gamified science education (ensuring product safety and professionalism and contextualizing game scenarios to everyday life).As children are an important reserve force for future first responders, cultivating their first aid awareness is crucial for improving public emergency response capabilities. Effective gamified CPR training kit development requires integrating children's and parents' perceptions to balance entertainment, education, and practicality. This study innovatively explores dual user needs, differing from prior research focused on training outcomes rather than predevelopment requirements. It addresses gaps in pediatric first aid tool design and provides evidence-based references for the development of child-friendly, professional, gamified training resources-laying a foundation for gradually enhancing CPR literacy and emergency response awareness among children in China.© Pan Wang, Zeya Shi, Furong Xu, Ying Huang, Yu Tian. Originally published in JMIR Serious Games (https://games.jmir.org).
Allergen immunotherapy (AIT) remains the only disease-modifying treatment for respiratory allergic diseases and the only intervention capable of preventing systemic sting reactions in patients with venom allergy (VA)﻿. This review summarizes recent real-world evidence on the safety of AIT.Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have consistently established the safety of licensed AIT products; however, real-world data are needed to comprehensively evaluate the frequency and severity of adverse events (AEs)﻿ and identify risk factors in routine practice. Safety data collection through registries and prospective or retrospective cohorts has confirmed that AIT is generally well tolerated across larger and heterogeneous populations, healthcare settings, and AIT practices. However, rare systemic reactions (SRs)﻿ and exceptionally fatal reactions (FRs)﻿ continue to occur. Careful pretreatment evaluation and close monitoring remain crucial, particularly during subcutaneous immunotherapy due to the higher risk of systemic reactions. Data on sublingual immunotherapy support a more favourable safety profile, with infrequent systemic reactions and no fatal reactions reported to date. In venom allergy, new evidence on clonal mast cell disorders, hereditary α-tryptasemia and detection of KIT p. D816V in peripheral blood is refining risk stratification.Systemic and severe adverse events associated with AIT are infrequent. Careful risk stratification and evaluation before initiating immunotherapy can help identify high-risk patients and optimize the benefit-risk balance.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Osteosarcoma (OS) is a malignant bone tumor that predominantly affects adolescents. Due to its early metastatic tendency and chemoresistance, long-term survival rates in patients have not shown significant improvement over time, highlighting the urgent need for novel molecular targets and therapeutic strategies. Ferroptosis, a form of programmed cell death driven by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation, offers a promising avenue for overcoming drug-resistant tumors. ATP-binding cassette subfamily B member 6 (ABCB6) belongs to the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter superfamily and is mainly localised to the outer mitochondrial membrane, where it participates in haem synthesis and intracellular iron transport. Recent studies have indicated that ABCB6 is aberrantly expressed in various malignancies and regulates tumor progression, yet its role and mechanism in OS remain unexplored. The present study aims to systematically characterise the expression pattern, clinical prognostic significance, and biological functions of ABCB6 in OS, and to dissect the molecular mechanism by which ABCB6 governs ferroptosis in OS cells, thereby providing a theoretical foundation for ABCB6-targeted therapy.Human OS cell lines (HOS and 143B) and human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) were used as research subjects. Stable ABCB6-knockdown OS cell lines were established via lentivirus-mediated RNA interference, and rescue experiments were performed using lentiviral overexpression of hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF1A). Cell proliferation was assessed by cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) and colony formation assays; migration was evaluated by Transwell and scratch wound-healing assays; apoptosis was detected by flow cytometry. Ferroptosis-related phenotypic assays were employed to determine the impact of ABCB6 expression on ferroptosis. Transcriptome sequencing was conducted to analyse differentially expressed genes and enriched pathways; chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and dual-luciferase reporter assays were applied to verify the direct binding of HIF1A to the promoter of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) and its transcriptional regulation. Iron chelator and proteasome inhibitor interventions were used to validate the regulation of HIF1A protein stability by Fe2+. In vivo, ABCB6-knockdown and control 143B cells were injected subcutaneously into nude mice to establish a xenograft tumor model, and tumor growth was monitored.Both messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein levels of ABCB6 were significantly higher in OS cell lines than in BMSCs (both P<0.05), and analysis of the Therapeutically Applicable Research to Generate Effective Treatments (TARGET)-OS cohort revealed that patients with high ABCB6 expression had markedly worse overall survival than those with low expression [hazard ratio (HR)=2.94, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.36 to 6.36, P<0.05]. ABCB6 knockdown significantly suppressed OS cell proliferation and colony formation, reduced migratory capacity, and increased the apoptosis rate, accompanied by downregulation of N-cadherin and upregulation of E-cadherin and cleaved caspase-3 (all P<0.05). ABCB6 silencing markedly elevated the proportion of Liperfluo-positive cells and dihydroethidium (DHE) oxidation levels, increased intracellular Fe2+ concentration, decreased the glutathione (GSH)/oxidized glutathione (GSSG) ratio, reduced mitochondrial membrane potential, and induced typical ferroptotic mitochondrial morphological changes (shrinkage and cristae reduction) as observed by transmission electron microscope (all P<0.05); these oxidative alterations were reversed by the ferroptosis inhibitors. ABCB6 knockdown downregulated GPX4 at both protein and mRNA levels, whereas solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11) expression remained unchanged (P>0.05). Transcriptome sequencing and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis showed significant enrichment of the HIF-1 signalling pathway in the control group (P<0.001); ABCB6 knockdown decreased HIF1A protein expression, and treatment with an iron chelator or a proteasome inhibitor reversed this degradation through Fe2+ chelation or inhibition of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway, respectively (all P<0.05). Chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (ChIP-qPCR) and dual-luciferase reporter assays confirmed that HIF1A directly binds to the GPX4 promoter and activates its transcription. Overexpression of HIF1A in ABCB6-knockdown cells restored GPX4 expression and significantly rescued the proliferation inhibition, migration impairment, and apoptosis increase caused by ABCB6 silencing, while also restoring mitochondrial membrane potential (all P<0.05). In the xenograft model, tumors from the ABCB6-knockdown group exhibited significantly reduced volume and weight compared with the control group (all P<0.05); immunohistochemistry confirmed downregulation of HIF1A and GPX4, reduced Ki-67 and N-cadherin positivity, and increased cleaved caspase-3 and E-cadherin positivity in the knockdown group (all P<0.05).This study systematically uncovers, for the first time, the oncogenic role and prognostic value of ABCB6 in OS, and delineates the complete "ABCB6/Fe2+/HIF1A/GPX4" axis that governs ferroptosis in OS cells. These findings not only provide a novel biomarker for molecular subtyping and prognostic evaluation of OS, but also establish a theoretical basis for therapeutic strategies that target the ABCB6/HIF1A/GPX4 axis to induce ferroptosis. Future investigations may explore the upstream regulators of ABCB6 and its potential utility in reversing chemoresistance in OS.
Research has found that paraoxonase 1 (PON1) is closely related to cardiovascular disease, but the relationship between circulating PON1 levels and coronary artery stenosis (CAS) in patients with diabetes remains unclear.This study is a single-center, retrospective cross-sectional study that includes 34 patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) and 118 patients with DM and CAS (DM+CAS). All study participants were from Beijing Luhe Hospital, affiliated with Capital Medical University. In this study, data regarding demographic characteristics, medication history, and key laboratory parameters were collected. The concentration of plasma PON1 was quantified using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) kit. Multiple logistic regression models were employed to evaluate the connection between PON1 levels and the presence of CAS among patients with diabetes. Additionally, the diagnostic performance of PON1 levels for diabetes combined with CAS was evaluated utilizing the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve and the area under the curve (AUC).Compared with patients in the diabetes group, plasma PON1 levels were significantly lower in diabetic patients with CAS. To evaluate the correlation between PON1 levels and CAS among individuals with diabetes, three logistic regression models were developed. As a continuous variable, higher PON1 levels were found to be inversely related to CAS risk in all models. In tertile-stratified analyses, compared with T1, all other tertiles exhibited significantly reduced risk of CAS. The ROC curve demonstrated that the unadjusted AUC of PON1 levels was 0.662 (95% CI 0.561-0.762, p = 0.004), while the fully adjusted model yielded an AUC of 0.833 (95% CI: 0.758-0.908, p < 0.001).Plasma PON1 levels were significantly decreased and independently associated with CAS in diabetic patients. Circulating PON1 alone showed moderate diagnostic efficiency, whereas its predictive accuracy was greatly improved when combined with clinical covariates. The findings are limited by single-center enrollment, a small sample size, and a lack of subgroup analysis for stenosis severity. Moreover, only PON1 protein levels were examined, with no detection of PON1 enzymatic activity. Further large-scale multicenter prospective studies are needed to validate these results and clarify the clinical utility of PON1.Circulating PON1 levels are negatively correlated with CAS in diabetic patients. While PON1 alone has limited diagnostic value, its combination with clinical covariates significantly improves risk discrimination.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Hypertension remains one of the leading causes of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality; however, patient adherence to treatment remains inadequate. In the context of a digital society, search queries can serve as an additional source of information regarding the population's information needs and patterns of interaction with medications.To conduct a comprehensive longitudinal infodemiological study of the Russian population's interest in angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors based on an analysis of search queries for the period 2018-2025.A retrospective study was conducted using aggregated data from the Yandex search engine (Wordstat) covering 84 months. Search queries were analyzed for six major ACE inhibitors (captopril, enalapril, lisinopril, perindopril, ramipril, fosinopril), as well as for their brand names (21 drugs in total). We analyzed time series (Mann-Kendall test), seasonality (Kruskal-Wallis test), and variability, as well as performed multidimensional semantic analysis (Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA), Term Frequency-Inverse Document Frequency (TF-IDF) + k-means, k-medoids, n-grams).The total volume of analyzed queries exceeded 102 million. The greatest informational interest was identified for the captopril (30.1% of all queries), perindopril (27.9%), and enalapril (21.3%) groups. Perindopril demonstrated the strongest positive trend (τ = 0.762; p < 0.001). Statistically significant seasonality (p < 0.05) was observed for all six main International Nonproprietary Names (INN), with a peak during the winter months and a decline in activity during the summer. Semantic analysis revealed distinct differentiation in information patterns: captopril was associated with emergency use and sublingual administration, enalapril with manufacturer selection, lisinopril with searches for instructions and reviews, and perindopril with fixed-dose combinations. The proportion of queries related to emergency use was highest for captopril (0.53%) and lowest for the other drugs.Users' search activity reflects consistent differences in the perception of ACE inhibitors and demonstrates pronounced seasonal dynamics. The identified digital patterns may indirectly reflect medication-related information needs and potential gaps in the population's health literacy. The infodemiological approach represents a promising tool for monitoring patients' information needs and optimizing clinical communication and preventive programs.Copyright © 2026 Kotlyarov and Kotlyarova.
To assess the association between different tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) and the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE).PubMed, the Cochrane Library, Embase, WanFang Data, and CNKI were searched for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) from inception to June 2026.A total of 25 RCTs met the inclusion criteria, encompassing 9,068 patients. The risk of MACE was significantly higher in the TKI-treated group than in the control group (odds ratio [OR] = 2.13; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.11-4.07; P = 0.02). The ORs for QT prolongation, hypertension, and arrhythmias were 6.05 (95% CI, 3.70-9.89; P < 0.00001), 4.18 (95% CI, 2.19-7.95; P < 0.0001), and 5.40 (95% CI, 3.43-8.50; P < 0.00001), respectively. Subgroup analysis indicated that epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) were associated with the highest risk of cardiovascular adverse events, followed by vascular endothelial growth factor receptor inhibitors (VEGFR-TKIs), platelet-derived growth factor receptor inhibitors (PDGFR-TKIs), and stem cell factor receptor inhibitors (c-Kit TKIs).TKI therapy significantly prolongs progression-free survival. However, the incidence of cardiovascular adverse events, including QT prolongation, hypertension, and arrhythmias, is notably higher with TKI use. EGFR-TKIs show the highest cardiovascular risk, followed by VEGFR-TKIs, PDGFR-TKIs, and c-Kit TKIs. Clinicians should be aware of these risks and ensure regular cardiovascular monitoring during treatment.https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/view/CRD420251084805, identifier CRD420251084805.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Cheng, Zheng, Liu, Zhang, Gao and Li.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567753 is a review article
The molecular mechanisms by which KMT2A-rearranged (KMT2A-r) leukemias maintain the oncogenic FLT3 expression remain largely unclear, limiting therapeutic opportunities. Here, we identify the RNA binding protein MBNL1 as an unexpected positive regulator of FLT3 by DepMap dataset exploration and combinatorial CRISPR screens. MBNL1 promotes leukemia cell survival in cell lines and primary tumors by sustaining FLT3 expression in a KMT2A-r context-dependent manner. Mechanistically, we discover that MBNL1 recognizes a structured single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) element containing five consecutive guanines within the FLT3 enhancer, through MBNL1's zinc finger domains and the carboxyl-terminal unstructured region. Such MBNL1 protein/ssDNA interaction was evident in KMT2A-r leukemia using ChIP-seq and KAS-seq. Mutations of key amino acids of MBNL1's ssDNA binding surface or the critical guanines in ssDNA markedly abrogate the protein-ssDNA interactions. These findings implicate MBNL1 as a distinct FLT3 activator by recognizing a structured enhancer ssDNA element, highlighting an unexpected role for RNA binding proteins in transcriptional regulation through direct ssDNA recognition.
Treatment-resistant late -life depression (TRLLD) is a major public health challenge, as older individuals present with suboptimal or partial responses to frontline therapeutic options. Chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) is a well-validated preclinical paradigm that recapitulates the complex neurobiological changes and clinical symptomatology of major depression. Here, we elucidate the influence of pregabalin (PRG; 10 mg/kg) and vitamin B12 (B12; 40 µg/kg) combination on neurobiological correlates of LLD such as slow vs. fast brain rhythms, affective behavior, and oxidative stress in male C57BL/6 mice, aged 18 months. In the present study, we postulated that the modulation of oscillation synchronization in slow alpha and sleep spindle brainwaves with abnormal high beta oscillation synchronization is imperative to observed depressive-like phenotypes in CUMS-exposed mice, and this oscillatory pattern was absent in healthy control. Reciprocally, PRG + B12 combination restored thalamocortical coherence, as treated mice showed an increase in alpha (ɑ = 8.1 - 12 Hz) and sigma (Ʃ = 12.1 - 16 Hz) wave synchronization, while it reduced high beta rhythms (β = 24.1 - 30 Hz) bursting. Stressed geriatric mice exhibited reduced exploratory drive and impairments in proper cognition, while PRG + B12 chronic treatment mitigated the propagation of LLD-related behavioral dysfunction, as mice showed good performance in all conducted neurobehavioral assays (OFT, L/D, Y-maze, FST, and SPT). Furthermore, the PRG + B12 combination prompted redox homeostasis, as evidenced by reduced malondialdehyde (MDA) levels and increased antioxidant endogenous enzyme activity (superoxide dismutase; SOD and catalase; CAT). These outcomes support the use of multimodal network therapy to manipulate neurophysiological resilience in thalamocortical and corticocortical circuitry to modulate depression-like phenotypes and relapse in LLD patients.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
The anorectic peptide nesfatin-1 has been identified as a potential mood regulator. Abnormal nesfatin-1 expression has been observed in both depression animal models and clinical cohorts, but its exact role in depression pathogenesis remains unclear.This study aimed to detect peripheral and central nesfatin-1 alterations in rats with chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS)-induced depressive-like behaviors, and explore their correlations with hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activity and brainstem monoamine synthesis.Rats were subjected to 5-week CUMS. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) quantified plasma mature nesfatin-1 peptide, and Western blot (WB) detected full-length nucleobindin 2 (NUCB2)/nesfatin-1 in the hypothalamus and brainstem. Spearman's rank correlation was performed solely within the CUMS group (n = 6); these exploratory correlational findings require cautious interpretation due to small sample size.CUMS significantly increased plasma nesfatin-1 as well as hypothalamic and brainstem NUCB2/nesfatin-1. In CUMS rats, plasma nesfatin-1 was positively correlated with corticosterone and forced swim test (FST) immobility time, and negatively correlated with sucrose preference index(SPT) and weight gain. Brainstem NUCB2/nesfatin-1 showed a positive correlation with tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH), while no significant correlation was found between hypothalamic NUCB2/nesfatin-1 and all measured parameters.Chronic stress-induced nesfatin-1 elevation accompanies peripheral HPA hyperactivation and aggravated depressive-like behaviors. Brainstem NUCB2/nesfatin-1 positively correlates with TPH, suggesting NUCB2/nesfatin-1 may link neuroendocrine activity and serotonergic plasticity with the brainstem as a core site. This study provides preliminary correlational evidence for coordinated NUCB2/nesfatin-1 changes across peripheral and central systems under stress-induced depression.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Selective breeding in aquaculture is necessary to establish food security and meet demand for sustainably produced protein. An informed selective breeding program requires understanding how population structure, environmental adaptation, and human activities shape natural genetic variation in wild conspecifics. Unfortunately, wild variation remains poorly characterised for many commercially important aquaculture species. Here, we conduct the first range-wide study of genomic population structure for the eastern oyster (Crassostrea virginica) across thousands of miles (Texas, USA to Eastern Canada) using a 200K SNP array. We integrate population structure analyses, genotype-environmental associations, and structural variant detection to identify adaptive loci and quantify human-mediated genetic impacts. Our data confirm two ancestral clusters with a phylogeographic break between the Gulf and Atlantic (FST = 0.16) and highlight patterns of substructure within each region. We find evidence of unexpected patterns of genomic variation in two locations: evidence of Gulf ancestry in a mid-Atlantic estuary (Chesapeake Bay), and evidence of Atlantic ancestry in a Gulf estuary (Apalachicola Bay). While we cannot definitively determine the causes of these unexpected patterns, we show that they are consistent with direct and indirect human impacts in these estuaries. Genotype-environment association analyses with in situ temperature and salinity measurements were used to identify putatively adaptive loci, including SNPs within large structural variants (> 1 Mb). Our results identified genomic targets for aquaculture breeding programs aimed at climate resilience, reveal complex patterns of human impacts in managed systems, and demonstrate how seascape genomics can be used to improve aquaculture outcomes.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Ecology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Molecular co-mutations modulate outcomes in FLT3-mutated AML treated with gilteritinib; real-world data stratified by DNMT3A co-mutation status are lacking.We retrospectively analysed 29 adults with R/R FLT3-mutated AML treated at two Italian centres. Sixteen patients with complete molecular profiling were stratified into three subgroups by DNMT3A and NPM1 co-mutation status.Overall response rate was 89.7% (26/29). DNMT3A-mutated subgroups showed prolonged OS from gilteritinib initiation versus wild-type group (median not reached vs. 8.8 months; 12-month OS 78% vs. 17%).These hypothesis-generating data suggest that DNMT3A co-mutation status is associated with differential gilteritinib outcomes, supporting comprehensive molecular profiling in FLT3-mutated AML.The authors have confirmed clinical trial registration is not needed for this submission.© 2026 The Author(s). eJHaem published by British Society for Haematology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558501 is a review article
Early T-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ETP-ALL) is a high-risk subtype of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL). Aberrant CD19 expression in ETP-ALL may lead to misdiagnosis of mixed-phenotype acute leukemia. Notably, nucleophosmin 1 (NPM1) mutations, an established molecular hallmark of acute myeloid leukemia (AML), are extremely rare in T-ALL.We present the case of a 29-year-old male with progressive right retroauricular and cervical lymphadenopathies complicated by severe febrile neutropenia and polymicrobial sepsis. Peripheral blood testing revealed 80% blasts. Bone marrow flow cytometry demonstrated blasts strongly positive for cytoplasmic CD3 and CD7, with aberrant CD19 expression and co-expression of CD34, CD33, and dim cytoplasmic CD79a. The blasts showed dim CD5 expression but were negative for CD1a, CD8, CD10, CD22, and myeloperoxidase, consistent with an ETP-ALL immunophenotype. Next-generation sequencing identified an NPM1 frameshift mutation (p.W288Cfs*12, Type A) and an internal tandem duplication of the Fms-like tyrosine kinase 3 gene (FLT3-ITD), both classic AML-associated mutations. After management of severe sepsis, the patient received three cycles of VHAG (venetoclax, homoharringtonine, cytarabine, and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor)-based chemotherapy followed by haploidentical allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT). He remained in sustained complete remission at the 7-month follow-up after allo-HSCT.To our knowledge, this case represents the first reported ETP-ALL with an NPM1 frameshift mutation (p.W288Cfs*12, Type A), which also exhibited aberrant CD19 expression, highlighting the diagnostic challenges posed by unusual immunophenotypic and genomic profiles.Copyright © 2026 Lu, Chen, Zhang and Wu.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) represents a major contributor to disability, yet currently prescribed monoamine-based antidepressants are limited by modest therapeutic efficacy and delayed clinical onset. Recent studies have demonstrated that ketamine, an N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist, rapidly engages mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) signaling in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), critically linked to its fast-acting antidepressant actions. Shikimic acid (SA), a natural compound widely found in various plants, has been reported to exhibit mTORC1-related signaling activity. In this study, we investigated whether SA induces antidepressant-like behavioral responses through mTORC1-related signaling in the mPFC.Antidepressant-like effects of SA were assessed in male and female outbred ICR and inbred C57BL/6 J mice using the forced swim test (FST), with locomotor activity evaluated in the open field test. The role of mTORC1 signaling was evaluated by systemic and intra-mPFC administration of the mTORC1 inhibitor rapamycin. The antidepressant-like effects of SA were further examined in ovariectomized (OVX) mice, a model of menopause-associated depression.SA significantly reduced immobility in the FST in naïve male but not female ICR mice, and this effect was abolished by systemic and intra-mPFC rapamycin. Comparable effects were observed in naïve male, but not female, C57BL/6 J mice. SA also reversed OVX-induced increase in immobility, and this effect was completely prevented by intra-mPFC rapamycin.These findings suggest that SA exerts antidepressant-like effects via rapamycin-sensitive mTORC1-dependent mechanisms within the mPFC. Our results support SA as a candidate compound targeting mPFC mTORC1-related signaling for novel rapid-acting antidepressants.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Biliary atresia (BA) is a neonatal fibroinflammatory cholangiopathy of infancy and the most common indication for pediatric liver transplantation. We aimed to define the molecular mechanisms responsible for differences in the rate of disease progression among children with BA.We performed spatial transcriptomics (ST) analysis on frozen liver tissue at transplant from 14 children: BA with survival with native liver (SNL) <2 years (BA1, n=3), BA with SNL >2 years (BA2, n=4), non-BA cholestasis (n=4), and non-diseased donors (n=3). Transcriptional signatures were compared between patient groups by tissue region (scar, hepatocyte, cholangiocyte). Findings were validated in larger patient cohorts that included BA samples at diagnosis.ST analysis of patients with BA1 showed the most aggressive disease phenotype, characterized by reduced hepatocyte zonation, low expression of homeostatic metabolic signatures, and increased scar heterogeneity enriched for pathways including extracellular matrix remodeling, interferon response, and leukocyte activation. Notably, genes involved in SOX4 hepatocyte-to-cholangiocyte reprogramming were most enriched in patients with BA1. Liver immunohistochemistry with in situ mRNA hybridization showed that patients with BA at diagnosis had increased SOX4 quantification as compared with patients with BA at transplant. Lastly, previously published liver bulk RNA-sequencing data demonstrated higher SOX4 gene-set expression in patients with BA at diagnosis with SNL <2 years.Children with BA and worse outcomes exhibit increased SOX4 gene-set expression at diagnosis with greater loss of hepatocyte zonation and immune-driven scar heterogeneity at transplant. Further mechanistic studies are needed to determine whether SOX4-associated biliary reprogramming contributes to maladaptive reparative processes in BA.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. on behalf of the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.
Hepatocellular carcinoma is one of the major cancers worldwide. It is most commonly caused by different factors, such as HBV, HCV infection, and alcohol consumption are most common. HCV infection causes CHC, fibrosis, and cirrhosis, which lead to HCC development. It is proven that miRNAs play an important role in the development of different types of cancer, including HCC.In this study, we performed data mining and bioinformatics analysis to investigate the roles of miR-1297, miR-2682-5p, miR-3186-5p, and miR-4753 in various types of malignancies, with a specific focus on HCC. Moreover, their expression levels, along with biomarkers (AFP and SOX4), were checked in four study groups (G1 = healthy controls, G2 = HCV patients, G3 = HCV-induced HCC patients, G4 = HCC patients) by RT-PCR.Expression analysis revealed that miR-1297, miR-2682-5p, miR-3186-5p, and miR-4753 were significantly downregulated, whereas AFP and SOX4 were significantly upregulated in G3 group compared with G1 group. The miR-2682-5p (p = 0.0412) and miR-4753 (p = 0.0383) showed a significant negative correlation with AFP. ROC analysis revealed that miR-1297, miR-2682-5p, miR-3186-5p, and miR-4753 have significant diagnostic potential for HCC.The findings indicate that miR-1297, miR-2682-5p, miR-3186-5p, and miR-4753 may serve as promising biomarkers for HCC.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Mugwort (Artemisia vulgaris) is a predominant aeroallergen for allergic rhinitis (AR) in northern China. However, the molecular changes linking local nasal mucosal inflammation with systemic alterations remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to explore the cross-level regulatory network in a mouse model of mugwort-induced AR by combining nasal mucosal transcriptomics and serum metabolomics.BALB/c mice were sensitized with mugwort extract and then challenged intranasally to establish an AR model. Nasal mucosal tissues were collected for RNA sequencing, and serum samples from the same cohort were subjected to non-targeted metabolomic analysis. Transcription factor (TF)-associated analysis, pathway enrichment analysis, and integrative multi-omics analysis were used to identify candidate regulatory factors and pathways involved in mugwort-induced allergic inflammation. Targeted validation of arginine-related changes was performed by measuring serum Arg1 and L-arginine levels, followed by ARG2 knockdown analysis in BEAS-2B epithelial cells after mugwort extract stimulation.Transcriptomic analysis revealed a clear Th2-type immune response in the model group, with significant upregulation of Il13, Arg1, Ccl24 and Il6. In addition, many downregulated genes were enriched in pathways related to ciliary function and epithelial differentiation, accompanied by suppression of structural genes such as Krt25 and Krt71. Gene set enrichment and TF-associated analyses further highlighted cytokine-mediated signaling and potential upstream regulators, including Fos, Batf, and Mafb. Serum metabolomics showed increased 1-methylhistamine and enrichment of arachidonic acid metabolism in mugwort-treated mice. Integrated analysis of the two omics datasets further pointed to arginine-related metabolism as a shared altered pathway. Consistently, targeted assays showed increased serum Arg1 levels and decreased serum L-arginine concentrations in the mugwort group. In BEAS-2B cells, ARG2 knockdown attenuated the induction of IL6 and CCL26 after mugwort extract stimulation.Together, our findings indicate that mugwort-induced AR is accompanied by coordinated local and systemic changes, including immune activation, epithelial/ciliary dysfunction, and serum metabolic remodeling. The arginine-related alterations supported by both omics analysis and targeted validation provide a potential link between nasal mucosal inflammation and systemic metabolic changes in mugwort allergy.© 2026 Chi, Chen, Jin, Sun and Xu.
Prostate cancer (PCa) progression and metastasis remain significant challenges in clinical oncology. miR-361-5p has been identified to function as an important tumor suppressor in multiple human malignancies. However, the clinical significance and biological role of miR-361-5p in PCa remain unclear.The present study was conducted to investigate the molecular mechanisms in metastatic PCa by using various experimental methods in vitro and in vivo.miR-361-5p was significantly downregulated in PCa cells and tissues. Overexpression of miR-361-5p inhibited proliferation, migration, and invasion in vitro, and suppressed tumor growth and lung metastasis in vivo. Mechanistically, miR-361-5p directly targeted TWIST1, reducing its protein levels and transcriptional activity; restoration of TWIST1 rescued the metastatic phenotype, confirming functional targeting. Importantly, miR-361-5p also regulated SOX4 via TWIST1 and formed a negative feedback loop with SOX4, reinforcing the suppression of metastasis. This TWIST1/SOX4 axis drove a reversal of epithelial-mesenchymal transition, marked by increased E-cadherin and decreased Vimentin and Fibronectin expression.The present study, for the first time, suggests that miR-361-5p functions as a tumor suppressor in PCa by modulating the TWIST1/SOX4 axis and EMT. These insights offer new therapeutic avenues for targeting miRNAs in metastatic PCa.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Adaptive resistance to MAPK inhibitors remains a major clinical obstacle in BRAF-mutant melanoma, driven by reversible transcriptional and epigenetic reprogramming. Previous studies have implicated loss of SRY-box transcription factor 10 (SOX10) and concurrent activation of TGF-β signaling in this process, but the molecular link between them has remained unresolved. Here, we identify a SOX10-miR-106a/363-TGFBR2 regulatory axis that governs adaptive resistance. SOX10 directly activates transcription of the miR-106a/363 cluster through a distal cis-regulatory element. In turn, the miR-106a/363 cluster members miR-106a-5p and miR-20b-5p suppress TGFBR2 post-transcriptionally, while miR-363-3p indirectly reduces TGFBR2 expression by targeting SOX4, a transcriptional activator of TGFBR2. This dual-layered repression restrains TGF-β signaling and maintains drug sensitivity. Loss of SOX10 diminishes miR-106a/363 expression, derepresses TGFBR2, and promotes a mesenchymal-like, drug-tolerant state. Restoring miR-106a/363 expression partially re-sensitizes melanomas to RAF inhibitors in vivo. These findings reveal a previously unrecognized regulatory circuit linking SOX10 to TGF-β signaling and highlight the miR-106a/363 cluster as a potential therapeutic target to overcome adaptive resistance in melanoma.© 2026. The Author(s).
Large B-cell lymphoma with IRF4 rearrangement (LBCL-IRF4) predominantly affects children and young adults (CAYA) and presents as localized disease with excellent prognosis. Although most tumors harbor IRF4 rearrangements (IRF4-R), the existence of cryptic rearrangements has been suggested. Whether IRF4-R LBCL in adults represents the same biological entity remains unclear. To address this question, 35 CAYA patients diagnosed with LBCL-IRF4 and 7 adult (>40-year-old) LBCL with IRF4-R were investigated by an integrative molecular approach. Targeted sequencing structural variant analysis (SV-NGS) confirmed the IRF4-R in 84% of investigated cases. In CAYA, an enrichment (55% vs 29% in adults) of translocations involving IGH, with a breakpoint cluster 3' to IRF4 (EXOC2) was observed, including a cryptic insertion of IGHM-IGHJ5 into IRF4 locus. Novel translocations, IRF4::MIR142 in two CAYA (7%) and IRF4::BATF in one adult, were discovered. Whole-exome sequencing analysis identified unreported mutations in LBCL-IRF4 as YY1 and ZC3H12A (11% each). The high incidence of mutations affecting the B-cell receptor/NF-KB pathways in LBCL-IRF4 was confirmed in cases with diffuse component only. None of the CAYA tumors were classified by LymphGen tool. Adult IRF4-R LBCL showed higher levels of genetic complexity and a distinct mutational profile with mutations on KMT2D and DTX1 (43% each), and MYD88-L265P (29%), and were predicted as EZB or MCD (29% each). These differential genetic features were in line with different clinical presentations (extranodal involvement and advanced stage). In conclusion, IRF4-R architecture and mutational profile differ according to age, supporting that not all cases should be classified as LBCL-IRF4.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
Fragile X-associated Tremor/Ataxia Syndrome (FXTAS) is a late-onset neurodegenerative disorder caused by FMR1 premutation CGG repeat expansions (55-200 repeats). The epigenetic landscape of the FXTAS brain remains uncharacterized. We performed genome-wide DNA methylation profiling of postmortem prefrontal cortex tissue to identify differentially methylated positions (DMPs) and candidate genes, and sought protein-level support for a neuroinflammatory signal.DNA methylation was profiled in postmortem prefrontal cortex (Brodmann area 9) from 27 male FXTAS cases and 29 male controls using the Illumina MethylationEPIC array (EPICv1 and EPICv2 platforms), merging 721,802 common probes. Surrogate variable analysis (SVA) controlled for confounders. DMPs were defined by |Δβ| > 0.10 and FDR < 0.05; exploratory Reactome 2024 pathway analysis was performed on the DMP-associated gene list. Targeted proteomic profiling was performed in the same brain region using the Olink (proximity extension assay) Inflammation panel in 9 FXTAS cases and 12 controls, with SVA-adjusted differential abundance analysis, and concordance assessment against a prior mass spectrometry dataset.We identified 108 significant cg-type DMPs mapping to 80 genes (50 hypermethylated, 58 hypomethylated in FXTAS). The strongest signal was CYP2E1 (7 concordant hypomethylated DMPs, mean Δβ = -0.143), an oxidative stress gene also implicated in Parkinson's disease. FTCD , a one-carbon cycle enzyme, carried 5 hypermethylated DMPs (mean Δβ = +0.210). A cluster of DMP-associated genes with established roles in innate immune and NF-κB signaling, TRAF3 (the single most significant DMP among the inflammation genes, hypermethylated), BATF, RCOR1 , and MSI2 ; they pointed toward neuroinflammatory dysregulation. Additional genes included LINGO1 (myelination inhibitor), SYT3 (synaptic vesicle), and SLC39A4 (zinc transporter). Exploratory Reactome enrichment using the DMP-associated gene set nominated themes including neuroinflammation resolution, axonal growth inhibition, zinc homeostasis, and CYP2E1 metabolism at nominal significance (p<0.05); however, the gene-to-pathway mapping rate was low and no pathway survived correction for multiple testing. Olink proteomic analysis independently identified 60 significantly altered inflammation proteins (59 downregulated), including CXCL8, CXCL10, IL6, IL15, IL18, TLR3, IRAK1/4, and complement C1QA, which were directionally concordant with prior mass spectrometry data.This integrated study reveals a genome-wide epigenetic signature in the FXTAS prefrontal cortex implicating oxidative stress, myelination failure, zinc dysregulation, one-carbon cycle disruption, and most notably a coordinated set of epigenetically altered genes governing innate immune and NF-κB signaling. Convergence of TRAF3 hypermethylation with independent downregulation of TLR3 and NF-κB-pathway proteins at the protein level supports a coherent, cross-platform model of dysregulated neuroinflammatory signaling in FXTAS, identified here through individual gene- and protein-level convergence rather than formal pathway enrichment. FTCD hypermethylation proposes a self-reinforcing epigenetic loop via SAM depletion. These multi-omic findings establish FXTAS as a disorder of pervasive epigenetic reprogramming and nominate candidate genes for future mechanistic and therapeutic investigation.
Astrocytes in the mouse hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) derive, at least in part, from BLBP+ cells, but the mechanism that controls the onset of their differentiation remains poorly understood. To address this, we first characterised the developmental dynamics of BLBP+ cells using Ki67 and the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p57. Ki67+/BLBP+ proliferative progenitors peaked at P1 and declined by P3-P6, when p57+/BLBP+ early-differentiating astrocytes instead accumulated. This temporal switch prompted us to examine what maintains the proliferative pool and restricts premature differentiation. We identified Sox4, a downstream transcription factor of TGFβ signalling, as a selective marker of the undifferentiated astrocytic lineage in the developing DG. At E15-E17, Sox4 was co-expressed with BLBP and pVimentin in basal radial glia (bRG), and at P1-P6 with BLBP, Sox3 and Ki67 in proliferative glial progenitors including the Olig2+/BLBP+ astrocyte progenitors (ASPs) we recently identified. Our data further suggest that Sox4 marks ASPs but not either NeuroD+ neuronal progenitors or p57+/BLBP+ early-differentiating astrocytes. From P14 onwards, Sox4 expression persisted in a subpopulation of BLBP+ radial glia-like cells (RGLs) at the SGZ and in BLBP+ cells in the molecular layer. Together, these data suggest that Sox4 selectively marks BLBP+ glial progenitors (bRG, RGLs and ASPs) but not their differentiated progeny. Consistent with an autocrine TGFβ1-Sox4 pathway described in glioma-initiating cells, TGFβ1 was co-expressed with BLBP in bRG, RGLs and ASPs. Blockade of TGFβ signalling with SB431542 in DG explants depleted Sox4+ progenitors and, in turn, promoted the accumulation of p57+/BLBP+ astrocytes. Our data thus suggest that TGFβ signalling maintains Sox4+ progenitors and thereby restricts the early differentiation of BLBP+ astrocytes in the mouse DG.Copyright © 2026 Ohyama, Omura, Takayama and Takahashi.
Exhausted T cells are phenotypically and functionally heterogeneous, from progenitor- to terminally-exhausted T cells. We evaluated gene expression profile of CD8+ T cells in acute leukemia to characterize the phenotype of exhausted T cells. Blood samples were collected from acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients prior to treatment and from control subjects. Additionally, samples were obtained from ALL patients after induction therapy. TCF7, NFATc1, IRF4, and BATF gene expression was then evaluated in isolated CD8+ T cells. CD8+ T cells from ALL patients showed higher expression of TCF7 and NFATc1 compared to the control group. The two study groups did not have a significant difference in the expression of BATF and IRF4. When compared to the control group, CD8+ T cells of AML patients showed an elevated expression level of NAFTc1 and IRF4. Significant differences were not found between the two study groups in AML when it came to the expression of BATF and TCF7. To our findings, the majority of CD8+ T cells found in ALL patients consist of progenitor-exhausted T cells.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42561956
Innate CD8 T cells are a subset of CD8 lineage T cells that acquire proinflammatory effector functions during their development in the thymus. Yet the developmental mechanisms diverting them from conventional CD8 T cells remain incompletely understood. By mapping their developmental trajectory in the thymus, here we identify high-level expression of the nonclassical MHC-I molecule Qa-2 as a surface marker of innate CD8 T cells. Because Qa-2 expression is induced by type I interferon (IFN) signaling, these results further led us to uncover a role for tonic type I IFN signaling in their generation. Accordingly, interleukin-4 is considered both necessary and sufficient for this process, but innate CD8 T cell differentiation was also markedly impaired in the absence of type I IFN signaling, as documented with genetically engineered mice. Altogether, these findings report an intrathymic cytokine circuitry that orchestrates the differentiation of innate CD8 T cells during their thymic development.
Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) remains a major barrier to the success of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). In preclinical models, dysregulation of IL-6 in the peri-transplant period promotes GVHD via STAT3-dependent T cell differentiation and monocyte activation but the nature of immunological effects invoked in patients remains unclear. To advance our understanding of IL-6 signaling in humans during HSCT, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing on circulating CD14+ monocytes and CD4+ T cells from patient samples within a clinical trial of IL-6R inhibition (tocilizumab (TCZ) or placebo) on a backbone of calcineurin inhibition (CNI) and short-course methotrexate. We studied patients who did not develop acute GVHD and included a placebo-treated group analyzed prior to the development of acute GVHD. IL-6R inhibition promoted Type-I IFN-associated transcriptional programs in both CD4+ T cells and CD14+ monocytes. Surprisingly, IL-6R-inhibition with TCZ profoundly enhanced cytolytic CD4+ T cell differentiation. In experimental HSCT and chimeric antigen receptor T cell systems, genetic deletion of IL-6 signaling in donor T cells enhanced the expansion of cytolytic Eomes+ CD4+ regulatory T cell subsets whilst attenuating Th1 and Th17 differentiation. Consistent with the promotion of this cytolytic CD4+ phenotype, anti-tumor effects were improved in the absence of IL-6 signaling. In summary, these data demonstrate that IL-6R inhibition during cell therapy imprints Type-I IFN programs and cytolytic CD4+ T cell differentiation, including the Eomes+ fraction associated with favorable immunotherapy outcomes.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
Primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is an immune-mediated cholestatic liver disease. Its molecular etiology remains poorly defined, hindering the development of mechanism-based diagnostics and therapies. Therefore, this study aimed to identify key molecular drivers and causal biomarkers of PSC by integrating transcriptomics, machine learning, and genetic causal inference.We deployed a computational framework combining transcriptomics, network biology, machine learning, and genetic causal inference. Peripheral blood transcriptomes from PSC patients and controls were analyzed to identify disease-associated modules. Candidate genes were refined via protein-protein interaction networks and a multi-algorithm machine learning screen. Causal inference was performed using two-sample Mendelian randomization, integrating plasma protein quantitative trait loci with PSC genome-wide association study summary statistics.Transcriptomic analysis revealed a PSC-associated module enriched in ribosome biogenesis and protein homeostasis pathways. A machine learning-optimized nine-gene signature (including PTMA, SUMO1, Shwachman-Bodian-Diamond syndrome (SBDS), RPL7, EIF1AX, ANP32A, PCNA, FAM98A, and MPHOSPH6) achieved high diagnostic accuracy (mean AUC = 0.908) and was consistently downregulated in PSC. This signature was linked to a remodeled immune microenvironment characterized by myeloid skewing and specific transcriptional-immune covariation patterns. Mendelian randomization identified SBDS as a putatively causal protective factor, where genetically instrumented higher plasma SBDS protein levels were robustly associated with a lower PSC risk (inverse variance weighted odds ratio = 0.525, 95% CI: 0.356-0.773, P = 0.001). Sensitivity analyses supported the validity of the Mendelian randomization assumptions.Our study establishes disrupted ribosome homeostasis as a causal pathway in PSC and nominates plasma SBDS as a high-confidence diagnostic biomarker and therapeutic target. The integrative framework provides a generalizable strategy for discovering causal biomarkers in complex diseases.© 2026 Authors.
Similar to CD8+ T cells, stem-like CD4+ T cells sustain responses to tumors, chronic infections, and inflammation. In this issue of Immunity, Wen et al. and Agesta et al. reveal EOMES as a critical regulator of stem-like CD4+ T cell maintenance and differentiation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Patients with multiple myeloma (MM) who experience early relapse (ER) within 24 months of autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) have inferior overall survival and represent a functionally high-risk (HR) subgroup. To investigate immune features of functionally HR MM, we performed immunohistochemistry (IHC) of the bone marrow and high-dimensional flow cytometry-based phenotyping of peripheral blood to evaluate the T-cell compartment of patients with MM at day 100 after ASCT. An initial IHC-based analysis of a cohort of patients with MM (n = 110) with long-term follow-up implicated CD3+PD-1+ T cells as a marker of functionally HR disease independent of maintenance therapy or cytogenetics, suggesting a role for activated T cells as a biomarker of disease biology. Next, to further refine the immunophenotype associated with ER, we conducted flow cytometry of peripheral blood samples from Blood and Marrow Transplant Clinical Trials Network (BMT CTN) 0702 trial participants with ER (n = 45) or long-term remission (LR; n = 51), defined as no relapse for >4 years of follow-up. Unsupervised clustering followed by multivariate logistic regression identified the differential expression of HLA-DR, granzyme B, CTLA4, CD27, TIGIT, and CD38 within discrete T-cell subsets, distinguishing ER from LR patients. After variable reduction and validation, CD38 expression by CD8+Eomes+ effector memory T cells emerged as the most predictive feature segregating ER from LR patients, with an area under the curve (AUC) of 86%. This immunophenotype was corroborated in a separate standard-of-care cohort (n = 18). Thus, flow cytometric analysis of peripheral blood at day 100 after ASCT identified a CD8+CD38+ T-cell subpopulation as a key feature of immunologically HR MM.© 2026 American Society of Hematology. Published by Elsevier Inc. Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0), permitting only noncommercial, nonderivative use with attribution. All other rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42432776 is a review article
Women of advanced age exhibit significant heterogeneity in ovarian reserve, categorized as normal (NOR) or diminished (DOR). This study aims to distinguish physiological age-related decline from pathological accelerated aging in DOR, and to explore underlying molecular mechanisms for optimizing assisted reproductive strategies. In vitro fertilization-embryo transfer (IVF-ET) outcomes were retrospectively compared in advanced-age women (≥ 40 years) with NOR or DOR treated at our center (January 2022 - December 2024). Simultaneously, follicular fluid (FF) was collected from both groups (n = 20). After centrifugation, metabolomic analysis was performed on metabolites, and transcriptomic sequencing on isolated granulosa cells (GCs). Despite comparable fertilization and cleavage-stage embryo quality, the DOR group showed significantly lower rates of oocyte maturation, blastocyst formation, clinical pregnancy, and live birth (P < 0.05). Metabolomic analysis revealed 28 differential metabolites (DMs) in FF, primarily enriched in galactose metabolism. Transcriptomics of GCs identified 246 differentially expressed mRNAs (DEmRNAs), prominently enriched in immune-related pathways. Protein-protein interaction analysis highlighted five hub genes (CX3CR1, CD69, FCER1A, EOMES, SPRR2A). Integrated analysis of the top 50 DEmRNAs with the top 400 DEmRNA-DM correlation pairs identified five key genes-IGLC3, RNVU1-29, FAM110C, NPY2R, and KCNN4-bridging GC transcriptome and FF metabolome, with key pairs including RNVU1-29 with lysylhydroxyproline and a sterane derivative, and FAM110C with 16-hydroxyhexadecanoic acid. In conclusion, DOR in advanced age may represent a distinct pathological aging state characterized by a dysregulated follicular microenvironment potentially shaped by immune activation and metabolic reprogramming. The identified key gene-metabolite pairs offer candidate molecular links to compromised oocyte developmental competence.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society for Reproductive Investigation.
Transplant-associated cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (TSCC) is one of the most common malignancies in solid organ transplant recipients and is strongly associated with long-term immunosuppression. However, the transcriptional programs and molecular mechanisms through which chronic immunosuppression reshapes intratumoral CD8⁺ T-cell differentiation remain poorly understood.We integrated single-cell transcriptomic and T-cell receptor repertoire analyses of TSCC and immunocompetent cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). An independent SCC cohort containing paired tumors and adjacent tissues, together with matched spatial transcriptomic data, was used to evaluate the association between EOMES and antitumor CD8⁺ T-cell differentiation.Single-cell transcriptomic analysis revealed marked accumulation of precursor effector-memory CD8⁺ T cells (Pre-Tem) in TSCC, accompanied by reduced cytotoxic programs and clonal expansion. Trajectory and regulatory-network analyses revealed retention of precursor-like differentiation states associated with reduced EOMES expression and regulon activity. In silico perturbation modeling predicted EOMES as a candidate transcriptional regulator linked to cytotoxic gene expression and effector differentiation. An independent SCC cohort further supported the biological relevance of EOMES-associated programs in antitumor CD8⁺ T-cell states. Cell-cell communication analysis identified CXCL10-CXCR3 signaling as a dominant pathway targeting Pre-Tem cells and related with diminished EOMES-associated differentiation programs. Spatial transcriptomics further identified spatial co-localization among CXCL10 signaling, EOMES-associated states, and Pre-Tem cells within a tumor-margin niche.Pre-Tem accumulation and altered differentiation states represent a previously unrecognized feature of immune dysfunction in TSCC. EOMES-associated programs were closely linked to precursor-to-effector CD8⁺ T-cell differentiation, while CXCL10-CXCR3 signaling may contribute to impaired precursor-to-effector differentiation. These findings provide a conceptual framework for understanding immune dysfunction in transplant-associated malignancies and establish a rationale for future mechanistic and translational studies.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Clear cell renal cell carcinoma exhibits striking intra-tumoral heterogeneity at morphological and genetic levels, complicating treatment and contributing to disease progression. CcRCCs with rhabdoid differentiation are highly aggressive tumors characterized by distinct histopathologies. However, the relationship between morphology, underlying molecular alterations, and tumor behavior remains largely unclear. Here, we present Deep Visual Multi-Omics, an approach integrating digital pathology, morphology-guided single-cell isolation, and ultra-sensitive multi-omics profiling to link cell morphologies to their molecular underpinnings. Across five tumors, we profiled ~40,000 AI-classified and expert-curated cells. We identified progressive molecular dysregulation across cells with increasing histopathological grade coexisting within heterogeneous tumors as well as distinct molecular alterations associated with aggressive rhabdoid ccRCC cells, including signatures consistent with enhanced FOXM1-driven proliferation, altered cell-matrix interactions, and a putative immunomodulatory phenotype. Notably, rhabdoid cells exhibited elevated expression of IFN-beta, PD-L1, CD38, ITGB2, and integrin signaling, suggesting that they themselves may act as a source of signals influencing the local immune microenvironment. Besides providing new insights into the biology of ccRCC and highlighting avenues for future translational studies, this illustrates the potential of Deep Visual Multi-omics to dissect cancer heterogeneity and characterize high-risk cell populations.© 2026. The Author(s).
Numerous studies have reported the biological activities of tilapia skin oligopeptides, which exhibit diverse physiological effects. However, research on the relationship between peptide structural characteristics and their activities remains relatively scarce. In this study, we combined computational simulations with biological experiments to investigate the anti-metastatic mechanism of the tilapia skin oligopeptide LSGYG. Computational analyses supported recurrent Zn-neighboring and pocket-associated recognition modes of LSGYG in the catalytic region of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) and identified a dynamically retained pocket-stabilized state with near-Zn anchoring features. Pulling-guided umbrella-window screening further provided qualitative support for a local metastable region near the Zn-adjacent catalytic microenvironment. Subsequent in vitro evaluations demonstrated that LSGYG significantly suppressed migration and invasion in phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA)-induced HT1080 cells and reduced metastasis-related molecular signaling in both HT1080 and 143B cells. Mechanistically, LSGYG substantially disrupted extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-like changes by downregulating MMP-2, MMP-9, N-cadherin, Vimentin, and the upstream regulator hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α), while restoring E-cadherin expression. These phenotypic reversals were associated with suppression of reactive oxygen species (ROS), mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), phosphoinositide 3-kinase/protein kinase B (PI3K/AKT), and nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) signaling pathways. These findings support LSGYG as a tilapia-derived bioactive peptide candidate for anti-metastatic functional-food or nutraceutical development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
SIRT3, a key mitochondrial deacetylase that regulates metabolic adaptation, oxidative stress, and apoptosis in cancer cells, has emerged as a promising therapeutic target in cancer treatment. 4,4'-dimethoxychalcone (DMC) is a natural chalcone derivative extracted from Angelica keiskei. In this study, we demonstrated that DMC induces thermosensitive impairment in SIRT3-associated mitochondrial signaling. A non-lethal temperature (42 °C) facilitates the interaction between DMC and the catalytic pocket of SIRT3, leading to preferential suppression of SIRT3 activity and consequently sensitizing HeLa cells to robust apoptotic signaling. This inhibition was accompanied by increased SOD2 acetylation and reduced SOD2 abundance, driving accumulation of oxidative stress, which triggers loss of mitochondrial membrane potential (ΔΨm), and pronounced caspase activation. Concomitantly, γ-H2AX nuclear foci formation and dual-phase cell-cycle arrest at the G1/S and G2/M checkpoints were associated with activation of p53/p21 and ATM/Chk2 signaling. In addition, cell migratory capacity was significantly impaired, as evidenced by reduced expression of MMP2 and MMP9. Notably, this inhibition impairs autophagic and mitophagic flux as well as lysosomal function, thereby preventing cytoprotective responses and facilitating cell death. Importantly, enforced SIRT3 overexpression reverses these effects, restores mitochondrial function, reactivates autophagic activity, and attenuates apoptotic cell death. Collectively, our findings identify DMC as a thermosensitive inhibitor of SIRT3 and provide mechanistic insights into its potential to disrupt mitochondrial homeostasis for targeted cancer therapy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Calotropis gigantea (L.) Dryand. has long been used in traditional medicine to treat various disorders. However, its effects on tumor angiogenesis and the underlying molecular mechanisms in hepatocellular carcinoma remain unclear, limiting understanding of its therapeutic significance.This study aimed to investigate the anti-tumor and anti-angiogenic effects of the dichloromethane fraction of C. gigantea stem bark extract (CGD) and its associated molecular changes in a HepG2 xenograft nude mouse model.BALB/c nude mice bearing HepG2 xenografts received intraperitoneal injections of CGD at doses of 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg three times weekly for 4 weeks. Tumor growth was monitored. Tumor angiogenesis was assessed by immunohistochemical staining for CD31 as an index of tumor microvascular density. The expression levels of HIF-1α, VEGF, VEGFR-2, EGFR, MMP-2, MMP-9, and VE-cadherin, as well as phosphorylated ERK1/2 and AKT, were evaluated by immunohistochemistry.CGD treatment significantly suppressed tumor growth compared to the control group. It reduced the CD31-positive area, indicating decreased tumor vascularization. CGD significantly downregulated the expression of HIF-1α, VEGF, VEGFR-2, EGFR, MMP-2, MMP-9, and VE-cadherin. CGD decreased phosphorylated ERK1/2 and AKT levels, indicating modulation of signaling related to tumor angiogenesis and progression.CGD demonstrates significant anti-tumor and anti-angiogenic effects in HepG2 xenograft mice. The observed effects are associated with the modulation of HIF-1α/VEGF-related angiogenic signaling and reduced phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and AKT. Collectively, these results suggest that CGD has potential as an anti-angiogenic agent for hepatocellular carcinoma.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Nicotinamide (NAM), a precursor for nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+), is widely used as a supplement during different cells culturing. Although its antioxidative and anti-apoptotic properties, the specific effects on bovine embryo quality and implantation potential remain partly explored. The current study aimed to investigate the impact of NAM on developmental competence and quality of bovine embryos, focusing on cell apoptosis, survival, and trophoblast invasion. NAM was treated during in vitro maturation (IVM) and late-stage embryo culture (IVC3; the morula stage embryo), the cleavage and blastocyst formation rates were evaluated on Days 4 and 8 post-fertilization, respectively. Underlying mechanisms affecting embryo quality and invasion potential were examined in developed blastocysts using RT-qPCR, immunofluorescence, reactive oxygen species (ROS) measurement, TUNEL and trophoblast invasion assays. Results showed that the cleavage and blastocyst formation rates were significantly increased in the NAM-treated group relative to controls (83.62 ± 1.38% vs. 80.08 ± 0.52%, and 37.54 ± 1.15% vs. 28.74 ± 0.70%, respectively). Additionally, the in vitro-developed embryos supplemented with NAM during IVM and IVC3 exhibited lower levels of ROS and mRNA of caspase-3, and higher mRNA levels of the survival genes SOD1 and SOD2. Similarly, the DNA fragmentation rate was lower, and the total cell counts and inner cell mass to trophectoderm (ICM:TE) ratios were higher in embryos supplemented with NAM compared to untreated embryos. Furthermore, the MMP2 and MMP9 protein expression and trophoblast invasion rate of blastocysts treated with NAM were enhanced. These findings highlight the potential role of NAM in improving bovine embryo quality and enhancing trophoblast invasive capacity, thereby suggesting an improved implantation potential.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Wound healing remains a major clinical challenge, often requiring treatments that combine antimicrobial, antioxidant, and anti-inflammatory properties. In the present study, a novel topical ointment containing curcumin functionalized copper nanoparticles (Cur-CuNPs) was developed and evaluated for wound-healing. Copper nanoparticles were green synthesized using Crossandra infundibuliformis leaf extract, followed by curcumin functionalization to enhance the stability, antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and wound healing activities. The formulated ointments were characterized and evaluated in Wistar albino rats with topical application daily for 16 days significantly accelerated wound contraction, enhanced re-epithelialization, and promoted organized collagen deposition in treated groups. Biochemical analysis revealed elevated antioxidant enzyme activities (superoxide dismutase and catalase) and reduced lipid peroxidation levels. ELISA-based cytokine profiling showed reduced levels of pro-inflammatory mediators (TNF-α and IL-6). Gene expression analysis showed increased VEGF expression together with reduced MMP-9 and IL-6 expression, while immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated increased Ki-67 and CD31 in Cur-CuNP-treated wounds. Collectively, these findings suggest that Cur- CuNP ointment promote wound healing with antioxidant activity, reduced inflammation, enhanced cellular proliferation, angiogenesis, and extracellular matrix remodeling, highlighting their potential as multifunctional topical therapeutics.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Utilizing single-cell RNA sequencing and network pharmacology, this study explored the mechanism by which Bletilla striata polysaccharide (BSP) mitigates peri-implantitis-associated osteolysis. Integrated analyses revealed a significant expansion of pro-inflammatory macrophages and osteoclasts in diseased tissues, with differentially expressed genes enriched in glycolytic pathways. Mechanistic exploration indicated that BSP suppresses osteoclastogenesis primarily by targeting matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP9), thereby inhibiting proteolytic activity and cytoskeletal remodeling. Preliminary rescue experiments supported this notion, showing that while BSP effectively downregulated LPS-induced MMP9 upregulation and suppressed macrophage glycolytic metabolism, forced overexpression of MMP9 partially restored MMP9 levels and reversed the inhibitory effect of BSP on osteoclast formation. These findings suggest a potential "metabolism-protease" interplay, where BSP concurrently modulates immune metabolism and protease activity to alleviate inflammatory bone loss, providing a foundational basis for developing plant-derived polysaccharide therapeutics.© 2026. The Society for In Vitro Biology.
As a possible target for pro- or anti-angiogenic therapy, the process of angiogenesis has become more widely recognized in disease and is essential in normal growth and development. The current study examined the immunological activities of macrophages during angiogenesis in quail embryos. CD68 was used to identify perivascular macrophages, which also retained expression of some stem cell markers, including CD34 and CD117, and also CD21. The macrophages also expressed vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a key promoter of angiogenesis, and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), which degrades matrix components to facilitate the formation of new blood vessels. The growth factor bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) and platelet-derived growth factor receptor-alpha (PDGF-α), which are often associated with mesenchymal cell recruitment and vascularization, were also expressed in the perivascular macrophages. More recently, studies investigating macrophages have become more prominent due to their proposed effects on endothelial cells. Macrophages are also increasingly considered potential targets for pro- or anti-angiogenic therapies, and this research provides insights into protein expression and roles in angiogenesis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Diabetic vascular complications remain a major cause of morbidity and mortality, yet the molecular mechanisms underlying endothelial dysfunction in diabetes remain incompletely understood. Endothelial dysfunction is a key contributor to vascular pathology, and patient-derived induced pluripotent stem cell-derived endothelial cells (iPSC-ECs) provide a human platform to investigate disease-associated endothelial phenotypes under controlled conditions. Here, we identify the RNA-binding protein Quaking-7 (QKI-7) as a key regulatory factor associated with endothelial dysfunction in patient-derived iPSC-ECs. Using cells derived from diabetic and non-diabetic donors maintained under standard culture conditions, we demonstrate that elevated QKI-7 expression is associated with reduced expression of endothelial homeostatic genes (COL4A2, JUN, TMEM184A, and PPP1R15A) and impaired angiogenic capacity, including reduced tube formation. Importantly, these findings were further validated in three-dimensional blood vessel organoid models, supporting the relevance of QKI-7-associated endothelial phenotypes in a more physiologically complex vascular system. Connectivity mapping identified FDA-approved compounds, including simvastatin, halcinonide, and retinoic acid, as potential modulators of QKI-7-associated pathways. Functional validation in iPSC-ECs demonstrated that these compounds reduce QKI-7 expression and improve endothelial functional readouts. Together, these findings identify QKI-7 as a regulatory node associated with endothelial dysfunction in patient-derived iPSC-ECs and highlight the utility of human iPSC-based vascular models for identifying candidate therapeutic strategies. While these models capture endothelial phenotypes associated with diabetic donor origin, further studies in more complex in vivo systems will be required to establish causal relevance to vascular disease.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Saliva-based point-of-care testing (POCT) is critical for the early diagnosis of periodontal disease. However, current wearable platforms, such as smart mouthguards, are predominantly limited to monitoring small metabolites (e.g., glucose) and cannot detect specific macromolecular proteins essential for disease characterization. To enable precise early diagnosis, we demonstrate a novel biosensor that integrates microfluidics with organic electrochemical transistors (OECTs). Functionally, this integration enables the simultaneous, multiplexed detection of a complementary biomarker combination: interleukin-6 (IL-6) and matrix metalloproteinase-8 (MMP-8). In terms of performance, the device leverages the high transconductance of OECTs to ensure high precision even at trace levels, achieving exceptional sensitivity with distinct dynamic ranges tailored for early-stage detection (IL-6: 1-80 pg/mL; MMP-8: 10-500 ng/mL). Validating its diagnostic utility, the sensor showed precise quantification (R2 > 0.97) correlated with gold-standard laboratory measurements in a rat model. By delivering clinical-grade precision for complex biomacromolecules, this platform overcomes the limitations of existing wearables and offers a viable path for translating advanced bioelectronics into practical periodontal healthcare.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Alcohol consumption has been a risk factor for more than 200 diseases, including esophageal cancer. Cell communication network 1 (CCN1), a matricellular protein, is highly expressed in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) but is barely detectable in esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC). Alcohol consumption has been identified as a major contributor to ESCC development, but its role in EAC is uncertain. This study examines the impact of acute (30 min) or prolonged (12 h) alcohol exposure (5, 100, and 500 mM) on CCN1 expression and function in esophageal epithelial cells, including normal (HEEC), ESCC (KYSE150 and KYSE410), and EAC (OE19 and OE33), in association with the activity of MMP2, MMP9, and MMP14. It was found that alcohol exposure promoted CCN1 expression in both normal and tumor cells but induced CCN1 cleavage exclusively in EAC cells, generating an 18-kDa fragment that promotes tumor growth. MMP9, which was active only in EAC cells, was found to mediate this cleavage. Forced activation of MMP9 in either normal or ESCC cells improved cell viability, whereas inhibition of MMP9 in EAC cells attenuated cell survival. Taken together, alcohol exposure promotes MMP9-mediated CCN1 cleavage in EAC, converting CCN1 from a pro-death to a pro-survival factor for EAC. This makes alcohol consumption a risk factor not only for ESCC development but also for EAC progression. A preprint can be found at d197for5662m48.cloudfront.net.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cell Communication and Signaling published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558268 is a review article
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis(IPF) is a fatal interstitial lung disease with limited clinical therapeutic options. Traditional Chinese medicine formulas, characterized by multi-component, multi-target, and holistic regulatory properties, have shown unique potential in the prevention and treatment of IPF. Yangyin Yifei Tongluo Pills(YF) is a TCM formula with demonstrated clinical efficacy. However, its modern pharmacological mechanism against IPF remains to be systematically elucidated. In this study, ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with quadrupole-Orbitrap high-resolution mass spectrometry(UHPLC-Q Exactive Orbitrap-HRMS) was employed to identify the chemical constituents of YF. A total of 76 potential bioactive compounds were characterized, including flavonoids, phenylpropanoids and other chemicals. By integrating network pharmacology and bioinformatics analyses, drug-related targets, IPF-associated targets, differentially expressed genes, and WGCNA-derived key module genes were intersected, yielding 15 potential targets. Based on a systematic evaluation using nine machine learning algorithms, arginase 1(ARG1) and matrix metalloproteinase 14(MMP14) were identified as key core targets. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses indicated that these targets were mainly involved in inflammatory regulation, signal transduction, and extracellular matrix(ECM) remodeling, with significant enrichment in key signaling pathways such as the TNF signaling pathway. Immune microenvironment analysis revealed that the expression levels of ARG1 and MMP14 were closely associated with immune and stromal cell infiltration characteristics. Molecular docking demonstrated favorable binding affinities between ARG1/MMP14 and several core components, including miltirone, peimine, cryptotanshinone, and sec-O-glucosylhamaudol, while molecular dynamics simulations further confirmed the conformational stability of miltirone and sec-O-glucosylhamaudol, as core potential bioactive components, with the targets under dynamic conditions. Collectively, these findings suggest that YF may exert anti-IPF effects by targeting ARG1 and MMP14 through its core potential bioactive components, synergistically modulating key processes including the immune microenvironment, fibroblast activation, and extracellular matrix remodeling. By integrating LC-MS, bioinformatics, machine learning, immune infiltration analysis, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulation, this study systematically elucidates the multi-component and multi-target mechanisms of YF, providing new insights and a foundation for the intervention and treatment of IPF and the mechanistic study of TCM formulas.
The aim was to determine the transcriptomic features of tumor and stromal cells in direct contact within tumor nodules in luminal and triple-negative breast cancer.Spatial transcriptomic profiling was performed using the Visium 10x platform on FFPE tumor tissue sections from 10 patients with luminal breast cancer and 9 patients with triple-negative breast cancer. Manual morphological annotation of spots and evaluation of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in identified spot clusters were performed using Loupe Browser v8.0.0 (10X Genomics, USA). Activated biological processes were assessed using the Enrichr online resource and the GO Biological Process 2025 database. Ligand-receptor pairs were identified using the CellChat package (v2.0) in R (v4.4.2).In luminal breast cancer, mixed cluster (tumor cells colocalized with stromal cells) was characterized by overexpression of genes encoding S100A family Ca2+-binding proteins (S100A4, S100A8, S100A9), matrix metalloproteinases (MMP2, MMP7, MMP14), cytokeratins (KRT5, KRT7, KRT15, KRT23, KRT81), the mesenchymal marker VIM, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-associated genes (ICAM1, PRRX1) compared to tumor-only cluster. In triple-negative breast cancer, mixed cluster showed overexpression of S100A2, S100A8, S100A9, the epithelial gene KRT6B, the cancer stem cell marker CD44, and NOTCH2, which is associated with negative regulation of EMT. In both breast cancer subtypes, mixed cluster showed transcriptomic enrichment of gene sets associated with regulation of the ERK/MAPK cascade, apoptosis, and cell adhesion and migration. Ligand-receptor pairs associated with cell-cell contact, EMT, and immune response were also detected in colocalized cells, with a broader spectrum of these pairs observed in luminal breast cancer.This study assessed the transcriptomic characteristics of directly contacting tumor and stromal cells and identified the spectrum of ligand-receptor pairs mediating their interactions. Characterizing the properties of cells at the tumor-stroma interface helps unravel mechanisms of breast cancer progression and identify novel diagnostic markers and therapeutic targets.© The Author(s) 2026.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42527175
Background: Available data indicate that the development of refractory schizophrenia may result from neuroinflammation, dysregulation of neurotrophins and metalloproteinases (MMPs), oxidative stress (OS), and hormonal imbalance. Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is an effective therapeutic option for drug resistance, but its impact on brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and MMPs remains underinvestigated. This study evaluates the influence of ECT on serum BDNF, MMPs (MMP-7, MMP-9, MMP-14), and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMP-1, TIMP-2, TIMP-3) in patients with treatment-resistant schizophrenia (TRS). Another goal of this study is an assessment of the relationships between these biomarkers and the intensity of schizophrenia symptoms. Methods: Serum concentrations of the aforementioned biomarkers were measured prior to and after ECT in eight patients and 13 healthy controls. The severity of schizophrenia symptoms was evaluated with the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS). Results: Bayesian analysis comparing pre-ECT serum concentrations of BDNF, MMPs, and their inhibitors in TRS patients with a control group showed a significant difference only for MMP-9. Furthermore, convincing evidence of a correlation between MMP-9 and MMP-14 was found in TRS patients. Although the ECT therapy did not result in changes in the serum concentrations of the studied biomarkers, substantial improvement in schizophrenia symptoms on the PANSS was observed. Conclusions: No significant biomarker changes (post- versus pre-treatment) were detected in this small exploratory cohort. Whether these biomarkers are involved in neuroinflammation (as possible contributors to the development of TRS) remains an open question, and therefore, further research on biomarkers in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) may be suggested.
This study investigates the role of MMPs and TIMPs in sepsis pathogenesis. We aim to assess multiple potential biomarkers including MMP-1, MMP-2, MMP-3, MMP-8, MMP-9, MMP-13, TIMP-1, TIMP-2, TIMP-3 in serum, brain and kidney tissue samples. To this date, there is not such extensive assessment of MMP and TIMP in sepsis pathogenesis.Experimental sepsis was generated using an LPS-induced endotoxemia model in rats. After 24 h, serum, brain and kidney samples were collected. Levels of MMP-1, MMP-2, MMP-3, MMP-8, MMP-9, MMP-13, and TIMP-1, TIMP-2, TIMP-3 were measured by ELISA. Inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6, IL-10, and IFN-γ) were analyzed to assess the inflammatory response.Analysis revealed that MMP-1 concentrations were elevated in kidney and brain tissues, as well as in serum in the sepsis group. MMP-2 levels exhibited statistically significant increases in brain tissues compared to controls. Elevations in MMP-3 were observed across brain, kidney and serum samples. MMP-8 levels were significantly increased in the serum. MMP-9 concentrations were higher in serum and kidney samples of septic rats compared with controls, while MMP-13 levels were elevated in kidney tissues of the sepsis group. TIMP measurements also revealed tissue-specific elevations in sepsis. TIMP-1 was significantly increased in kidney; TIMP-2 showed significant rises in brain tissue and serum; and TIMP-3 was markedly elevated in kidney tissues.A major strength of our study is the simultaneous assessment of multiple parameters. Our findings offer preliminary evidence of tissue-specific MMP and TIMP responses in sepsis and may guide future research exploring their biomarker potential. We anticipate that these results will inform both future clinical and pharmacological research and assist in the interpretation of subsequent studies.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42568047 is a review article
Transcription factors (TFs) are key players in eukaryotic gene regulation, but the DNA binding specificity of many TFs remains unknown. Here, we assay 284 mostly uncharacterized putative human TFs using selective microfluidics-based ligand enrichment followed by sequencing (SMiLE-seq), revealing 74 new DNA binding motifs. To investigate whether TFs lacking detectable motifs preferably bind epigenetically modified DNA, we develop methylation-sensitive SMiLE-seq (meSMiLE-seq), a microfluidic assay that simultaneously probes binding to methylated and unmethylated DNA. Using meSMiLE-seq, we assay 114 TFs and identify DNA-binding models for 48 proteins, including known methylation-sensitive binding modes for POU5F1 and RFX5. 11 TFs prefer methylated DNA or display alternative methylation-dependent motifs (e.g. PRDM13), while 13 show aversion to methylated sequences (e.g. USF3). Finally, we identify ZHX2 as a putative Z-DNA binder. Altogether, our study significantly expands the human TF codebook, while providing a versatile platform to quantitatively assay the impact of DNA modifications on TF binding.© 2026. The Author(s).
Muscular dystrophies (MDs) are a genetically heterogeneous group of disorders, posing significant diagnostic challenges, especially in populations with high consanguinity. Despite advances in genetic testing, a substantial proportion of patients remain undiagnosed. Whole-exome sequencing (WES) has emerged as a powerful tool for identifying causal variants in such unresolved cases. To identify the genetic basis of nondystrophinopathic MDs in Iranian families with inconclusive prior genetic testing and to evaluate the diagnostic yield and mutational spectrum in this population.We performed WES on one affected individual from each of 10 unrelated Iranian families with clinically diagnosed MD. Candidate variants were prioritized based on in silico prediction tools (SIFT, PolyPhen-2, CADD, SpliceAI), population frequency databases (gnomAD, 1000 Genomes, EVS), and ACMG/AMP guidelines. Findings were validated by Sanger sequencing, MLPA, and STR haplotype analysis. Segregation analysis was performed in available family members.WES led to a diagnostic yield of 69.2% (9/13 variants in 10 families) after segregation analysis and ACMG-based reclassification. We identified 13 candidate variants in 10 known MD-associated genes, including DYSF, SGCA, TK2, MAP3K20, LMNA, COL6A1, COL6A2, ITGA7, MICU1, and SGCB. Among these, seven variants (54%) were novel. The majority of cases (84.6%) followed an autosomal recessive pattern, consistent with high parental consanguinity (70%). Notably, a de novo splice-site variant in COL6A2 (c.1053+1G>T) was identified in a sporadic case, confirming an autosomal dominant inheritance. Challenges in variant interpretation were observed in families with variants in tightly linked genes (COL6A1 and COL6A2), highlighting the role of linkage disequilibrium in founder populations.WES is a highly effective diagnostic strategy for genetically heterogeneous MDs, particularly in consanguineous populations. Our study expands the mutational spectrum of MDs in Iran and provides critical data for genetic counseling, prenatal diagnosis, and future therapeutic development. The high rate of novel variants underscores the importance of population-specific genomic studies.Copyright © 2026 Nasibeh Soltani et al. Human Mutation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Bisphenol A (BPA) exposure is associated with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM); however, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain elusive. This study aimed to identify key genes mediating BPA exposure-related GDM through integrative bioinformatics analysis. We integrated BPA-related targets from multiple databases with GDM-associated genes derived from GeneCards and the GSE103552 dataset. Functional enrichment analysis was performed on the intersecting genes. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed, and hub genes were identified using four topological algorithms. Machine learning approaches were employed for feature selection. Immune infiltration was assessed, and core gene expression was validated via reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), additional GEO datasets, and single-cell RNA sequencing data. Thirty-four overlapping genes were identified and found to be enriched in the insulin signaling pathway, the AMPK pathway, and inflammatory responses. Following further screening, five core genes-HSPA8, NR3C1, ITGB1, NOTCH2, and POU5F1-were selected, demonstrating robust diagnostic performance. Immune analysis revealed significant correlations between hub genes and the infiltration levels of immune cells. Consistent expression patterns of ITGB1 and NOTCH2 were validated across additional GEO datasets. RT-qPCR confirmed the downregulation of HSPA8 and the upregulation of NR3C1 and NOTCH2 in GDM. Single-cell analysis corroborated cell-type-specific expression within the placenta. This study elucidates potential molecular links between BPA exposure and GDM, highlighting immune-metabolic dysregulation. The identified core genes may serve as biomarkers or therapeutic targets, thereby advancing precision environmental health strategies for pregnancy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society for Reproductive Investigation.
Paternal influences on offspring development extend beyond Mendelian inheritance, but how sire genetics shape fetal transcription and cis-regulatory landscapes across tissues is unclear. Using a reciprocal backcross in pigs (F1×German Landrace vs. F1×Piétrain) and a haplotype-agnostic RNA-seq pipeline, we profiled six fetal tissues to test sire-breed effects. We identified paternal breed-driven transcriptional divergence, with 1,176 genes differentially expressed. Transcriptional divergence was most pronounced in metabolic tissues, revealing a tissue-specific trade-off: F1 × GL conceptuses prioritized metabolic and energy pathways, whereas F1 × Pi conceptuses upregulated developmental and cell cycle processes. Allele-specific expression analysis revealed extensive, tissue-dependent cis-regulatory divergence, and differential ASE highlighted candidate mediators, including SLC5A12 and IVD (kidney), BRD3 (brain), and CES1 (liver). These results indicate that paternal genetics programs fetal tissues via cis-regulatory variation, informing strategies to improve livestock traits. Notably, many loci overlapped known QTLs, suggesting that regulatory variants connect sire background to performance-related phenotypes and fetal programming.© 2026 The Author(s).
This study aims to identify programmed cell death (PCD)-associated genes linked to breast cancer prognosis for the construction of a prognostic model. Transcriptomic and clinical information was imported from the The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and GEO databases. Modulatory genes related to 18 types of PCD were evaluated. Furthermore, the TCGA and GEO datasets were employed as the training and validation datasets, respectively. A risk score prognostic model based on PCD-related genes was generated via univariate, LASSO, and multivariate Cox regression analyses. Further, differences in drug sensitivity, tumor mutation burden (TMB), immune-related pathways and cell infiltration, and immune checkpoints were compared between high-risk and low-risk cohorts to elucidate the clinical applicability of the model. Lastly, the model gene's expression was verified by RT-PCR. The data revealed 1480 PCD-related genes from the TCGA breast cancer gene expression matrix. Differential expression analysis identified 186 differentially expressed PCD genes. Furthermore, a prognostic model was generated according to the risk scores using multivariate Cox regression. The model comprised 8 PCD-related genes (BRSK2, CD24, IFNG, LAMB3, PDX1, PMAIP1, SLC7A11, and TRIML2). Moreover, breast cancer cases were divided into high-risk and low-risk cohorts per the median risk score. The results indicated that low-risk patients had better prognoses, and the model showed good predictive performance in the GEO validation cohort. The area under the curve values were 0.819, 0.731, and 0.674 for the nomogram's 3, 5, and 8 years overall survival, respectively. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that the prognostic model was markedly linked with the modulation of the immune microenvironment and tumor progression in breast cancer. Immune infiltration assessment revealed that low-risk patients had increased activity in immune-related pathways and infiltration of immune cells. In addition, the low-risk cohort had lower TMB and elevated immune checkpoint-related levels. Correlation analysis between immune checkpoints and risk scores indicated that low-risk patients were more responsive to immunotherapy. Drug sensitivity analysis showed variations in the IC50 values between the risk cohorts, suggesting potential variations in drug efficacy across different risk cohorts. Gene expression was verified by RT-PCR.A prognostic risk model for breast cancer based on 8 PCD-related genes was constructed and its predictive value was validated. The established model may provide novel biomarkers and effective therapeutic targets for breast cancer diagnosis and treatment.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42492506 is a review article
Cerebral small vessel diseases (CSVDs) are a group of disorders affecting the small arteries, veins, and capillaries supplying the white matter and deep grey matter structures. They are the most common form of cerebrovascular disease, accounting for approximately half of vascular dementia cases and 20% of stroke incidence. Whilst genetic testing is a routine diagnostic tool for monogenic CSVDs, less than 20% of patients have a causal variant in known CSVD genes. We performed whole exome sequencing on 117 patients suspected of monogenic CSVD who previously tested negative for pathogenic variants in seven well-characterised CSVD genes (NOTCH3, HTRA1, COL4A1, COL4A2, TREX1, GLA, and FOXC1). Targeted analysis was conducted on known and associated CSVD genes, as well as candidate genes which cause conditions with overlapping symptomology to CSVD. Burden analysis focussing on rare, functional variants was used to identify novel associations when compared against a cohort of 1035 non-neurological controls. We identified 18 suspected disease-causing variants across nine CSVD-associated genes and a significant burden of both rare and rare, likely disease-causing heterozygous variants in ABCC6. Two genes from stroke and neurodegenerative disease gene panels also possessed a significant burden of rare, likely disease-causing variants, MYH11 (adjusted P = 1 × 10-2) and NOTCH1 (adjusted P = 1 × 10-2). We further identified novel associations for seven genes (COL7A1, HMCN1, LAMA1, MMP9, TENM4, TNC, TTN) with monogenic CSVD in this cohort. Our findings implicate several genes as potentially causal of monogenic CSVD, highlighting the need for more extensive genetic screening in suspected CSVD cases, and functional characterisation of implicated variants to determine their mechanistic role in CSVD pathogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
In brief: The preimplantation embryonic development progress is accompanied by dynamic changes of transcriptome, and many transcription factors have been found to responsible for this progress. This study shows that SP1 is necessary for proper zygotic genome activation and morula-to-blastocyst transition by regulating transcriptome establishment and histone modifications in mouse preimplantation embryos. Abstract: Specificity protein 1 (SP1) is the most active member of the specificity protein and Krüppel-like factor (Sp/KLF) family and is widely expressed across all mammalian cell types. However, more detailed studies on the role of SP1 in preimplantation embryonic development are needed. Here, we analyzed the role of SP1 in the development of preimplantation mouse embryos through supplementation with a small molecular inhibitor (plicamycin) and microinjection of Sp1 siRNA. We found that SP1 was indispensable for zygotic genome activation (ZGA) and the morula-to-blastocyst transition. Plicamycin supplementation arrested embryo development at the 2-cell stage and resulted in aberrant RNA polymerase II preconfiguration. Sp1 expression knockdown by Sp1 siRNA microinjection caused most embryos to arrest at the morula stage, and the expression of NANOG, POU5F1, and CDX2 significantly decreased. Both plicamycin supplementation and Sp1 siRNA microinjection decreased embryonic H3K4me3 levels and increased H3K9me3 levels. Moreover, when Sp1 was overexpressed, the embryos were arrested at the 2-cell stage, the H3K4me3 level increased, and the H3K9me3 level decreased. In conclusion, our findings demonstrate that SP1 is crucial for mouse preimplantation embryonic development through the regulation of gene expression and histone modifications.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Reproduction and Fertility. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Breast cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related mortality among women. Laminin subunit alpha 3 (LAMA3), a constituent of the extracellular matrix, is associated with tumor progression. However, its clinical relevance and function remain inadequately understood.We conducted a systematic evaluation of LAMA3 expression in breast cancer by assessing plasma, cell lines, and tissues using mass spectrometry, qRT-PCR, Western blotting, and immunohistochemistry (IHC). The colocalization of LAMA3 with tumor and stromal markers was detected by immunofluorescence. Tumor and stromal regions were digitally segmented using QuPath software to compute compartment-specific histochemical scores. The correlation of LAMA3 with clinical characteristics was evaluated using Chi-square and nonparametric statistical tests. The impact of LAMA3 expression on survival was analyzed using Kaplan-Meier survival curves and Cox proportional hazards regression models. Bioinformatics analyses were performed to investigate potential underlying mechanisms.Plasma LAMA3 protein levels were elevated in patients, but its mRNA and protein levels were reduced in breast cancer cell lines and tissues. Analysis on TIMER 2.0 database showed LAMA3 was positively related to cancer-associated fibroblasts and epithelial cells infiltration in breast cancer tissues. Multiplex immunofluorescence revealed LAMA3 colocalized with cancer-associated fibroblasts and tumor epithelial cells. Although LAMA3 protein levels were reduced in breast cancer tissues, high stromal-but not tumor-LAMA3 expression was significantly associated with advanced histological grade, TNM stage, molecular subtype, recurrence, and poorer survival outcomes. Multivariate analysis indicated stromal LAMA3 as an independent prognostic factor for survival in breast cancer, with enhanced predictive power when combined with lymph node metastasis. Bioinformatic analyses suggested that LAMA3 protein was correlated with epithelial-mesenchymal transition and extracellular matrix-receptor interaction pathways in breast cancer.Stromal LAMA3, expressed in the tumor microenvironment, is a new potential prognostic biomarker for breast cancer, emphasizing the significance of spatial context in biomarker discovery and suggesting its use in risk stratification.© The Author(s) 2026.
The coexistence of LOCS and a broader EB phenotype within a single consanguineous family represents a unique instance of intra-familial phenotypic heterogeneity in LAMA3-related junctional epidermolysis bullosa. This highlights the importance of recognizing systemic manifestations, including urological and neurological complications, and underscores early diagnosis, multidisciplinary management, and genetic counseling.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Case Reports published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
A vital question in transcription regulation is how and to what extent transcription of different DNA species, including viral DNA, episomal DNA and endogenous retroelements, is differentially regulated to transcription of host genes. RPRD2 has previously been characterized as an HIV restriction factor that blocks reverse transcription. However, RPRD2 has also been characterized as a regulator of global transcription of host genes. Therefore, we hypothesized that RPRD2 may also regulate nascent transcription from HIV provirus and endogenous retroelements. First, we used a combination of experimental and computational methods to characterize the binding of RPRD2 to RNA and DNA:RNA hybrids. Using immunoprecipitation, we identified that RPRD2 interacts with both the transcription regulator PAF1 and the HUSH complex member TASOR, independently. Immunofluorescence revealed that GFP-RPRD2 localizes to foci in the nucleus, and these foci overlap with nuclear speckles. To measure the effect of RPRD2 on transcription, we used plasmid-borne HIV LTR-driven reporter constructs and observed that RPRD2 depletion increased transcription of constructs both with and without an intron. We next investigated transcription from integrated proviruses and found no effect of RPRD2 depletion using several different systems. Lastly, we measured transcription of endogenous retroelements and found that RPRD2 depletion did not affect transcription of LINE-1 or HERV-K. Finally, we investigated whether RPRD2 regulates production of IFN in response to nucleic acid species or affects transcription of IFN-stimulated genes. We found that depletion of RPRD2 had no effect on IFN production or ISG expression. Together, our findings demonstrate how regulation of transcription is not universal for host genes, integrated provirus, unintegrated plasmid and endogenous retroviruses, and confirmed that although RPRD2 governs cellular transcription, it does not regulate transcription of HIV-1 provirus or of endogenous retroelements.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42526972 is a review article
Eggshell quality is a critical trait in poultry production, as it directly influences economic outcomes. The genetic architecture underlying this trait remains poorly characterized. In this study, we conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) on Chinese Wenshang Barred chickens at 43 weeks of age to identify genomic loci and candidate genes associated with eggshell quality. This analysis revealed 87 significant SNPs and 14 candidate genes. Genes including MC2R, CDC73, LYSMD2, TNFAIP8L3, and CYP19A1 were associated with eggshell weight; PHEX, ATM, STXBP6, SLIT3, and RALY with eggshell thickness; and SOCS5 and ATG4C with eggshell strength. Notably, three SNPs emerged as the most promising markers for eggshell quality, though their functional roles in laying hens require further investigation. This study advances our understanding of the genetic basis of eggshell quality and holds significant practical implications for improving this trait through targeted breeding strategies.
The laminin α3 chain, encoded by LAMA3, constitutes a principal component of laminin-332 (LN-332), an essential extracellular matrix (ECM) glycoprotein governing cell adhesion, proliferation, and tissue homeostasis. This systematic review consolidates current evidence on the molecular features and regulatory mechanisms of LAMA3, including its roles in PI3K/Akt, epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), and Hippo-YAP signaling, as well as epigenetic and post-transcriptional modulation. Its context-dependent functions across distinct pathological states are delineated. In malignancies, including colorectal and ovarian cancers, LAMA3 functions as an oncogenic determinant that enhances invasion, metastatic dissemination, and chemotherapeutic resistance. In contrast, in hereditary diseases such as junctional epidermolysis bullosa (JEB) and chronic disorders such as idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), LAMA3 deficiency or dysfunction constitutes a structural basis of tissue pathology. From a translational standpoint, elevated LAMA3 expression has been recognized as an independent prognostic indicator in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, whereas LAMA3 promoter methylation is a candidate biomarker for platinum resistance in ovarian cancer. LAMA3-directed gene therapy for JEB has progressed to clinical evaluation. Current limitations in the field are critically examined, and emerging therapeutic approaches, including proteolysis-targeting chimeras (PROTACs), are discussed. Collectively, an integrated framework that connects LAMA3 biology with clinical applications is presented to inform future investigations and precision therapeutic strategies targeting this multifunctional molecule.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the global health issues. Current treatments still present major challenges such as off-target cytotoxicity and the emergence of drug resistance, the development of potent and innovative therapeutics is urgently needed. Here, we synthesized copper‑aluminum (CuAl) layered double hydroxides (LDH) using a hydrothermal method and loaded them with the 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) (CuAl-5FU) to improve their anticancer efficacy. The LDHs were 2D-sheeted and rosette-like in shape. The hydrodynamic diameter of CuAl and CuAl-5FU was 568 and 661 nm, respectively. Zeta potential values of CuAl-5FU ranged from +31.39 to +34.93 mV across pH 3 to 9, indicating good colloidal stability. The drug loading and encapsulation efficiency were 18.19% and 36.37%, respectively. Dose-dependent cytotoxicity was seen in HCT-116 and HT-29 CRC cells. Comparatively, CuAl-5FU LDH exhibited greater anticancer activity compared to LDH alone and free 5-FU drug in both monolayer and tumor spheroid models. Mechanistic studies revealed that CuAl-5FU significantly induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, mitochondrial membrane depolarization, and promoted apoptosis by upregulating the pro-apoptotic Bax protein and PARP cleavage in both CRC cells. Transcriptomic analysis and qPCR validation revealed the downregulation of oncogenic MAPK signaling and modulation of key genes related to proliferation (JUN, DUSP1, FOSB, EGR1, and FOS), apoptosis (TP53I3, ZMAT3, GADD45A, BBC3, MDM2, TNFRSF10B, E2F1, and ORC1), and cell cycle arrest (CDKN1A and CDC25A). Notably, we identified altered expression of several chemoresistance-related genes (AVPI1, HROB, DDIAS, PTGES, and LAMA3), suggesting the early emergence of adaptive responses in CRC cells. To validate this observation, CuAl-5FU-resistant HCT-116 G3 and HT-29 G2 cell lines were established and their chemoresistant phenotypes were characterized. Indeed, the chemoresistance-associated genes were upregulated, together with significantly higher IC50 values and clonogenic survival fractions than their respective parental cells. Collectively, these findings suggest that CuAl-5FU improves anticancer activity in CRC cells by modulating multiple genes involved in ROS production, mitochondrial membrane depolarization, apoptosis, and cell cycle regulation. Nevertheless, chemoresistance developed rapidly following repeated treatment, highlighting a potential limitation of this therapeutic approach. Overall, this study provides a new potential strategy for CRC treatment while emphasizing the importance of elucidating the molecular mechanisms underlying acquired chemoresistance. Future studies should also optimize the physicochemical properties of the CuAl-5FU LDH, particularly the large particle size (∼661 nm) by optimizing the hydrothermal synthesis conditions and incorporating surface modifications to further improve the tumor penetration and drug delivery.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Parathyroid carcinoma (PC) is an extremely rare endocrine malignancy with limited treatment options for unresectable or recurrent cases. With the increasing use of comprehensive genomic profiling (CGP), treatment based on genomic findings is becoming more common. However, the frequency and clinical significance of elevated tumor mutational burden (TMB) in PC remain unclear because previous studies have been limited by small sample sizes.We retrospectively analyzed genomic and clinical data of patients with PC registered in the Center for Cancer Genomics and Advanced Therapeutics database in Japan between June 2019 and March 2025. TMB values were obtained as reported by each CGP assay. TMB-H was defined as TMB ≥ 10 mut/Mb for descriptive analyses. We also assessed genomic alterations, microsatellite instability (MSI) status, and clinicogenomic characteristics.Twenty-five patients with PC were included. The median assay-reported TMB was 4.0 mut/Mb (range, 0-35). Seven tumors (28.0%) had assay-reported TMB values of ≥ 10 mut/Mb, including three (12.0%) with TMB ≥ 20 mut/Mb. The most frequently altered genes were CDC73 (40%), TP53 (32%), and MEN1 (24%). No co-alterations were observed between CDC73 and MEN1 or between CDC73 and TP53. One tumor was MSI-high and was included in the TMB-H group. POLE alterations were detected in three cases, including two tumors in the TMB-H group.This nationwide, real-world study demonstrated that a subset of PCs showed elevated assay-reported TMB values and genomic features potentially related to abnormalities in DNA replication or repair pathways. These findings support the clinical relevance of comprehensive genomic profiling in identifying the molecular heterogeneity and potential therapeutic opportunities for this rare malignancy.© 2026. The Author(s).
This report describes a rare case of recurrent hyperparathyroidism due to ectopic parathyroid hyperplasia in a 35-year-old woman with a CDC73 c.271C > T mutation. This case highlights the importance of multimodal imaging, intraoperative monitoring, and genetic evaluation in the management of recurrent primary hyperparathyroidism.
Parathyroid carcinoma (PC) is a rare but clinically aggressive endocrine malignancy with limited treatment options and a poorly defined tumor microenvironment (TME). To elucidate its cellular heterogeneity and spatial architecture, we integrated single-cell and spatial transcriptomic profiling with whole-exome sequencing and multiplex immunohistochemistry on eight parathyroid neoplasm specimens, including PC, parathyroid adenoma, and atypical parathyroid tumor. We identified a distinct progenitor-like endocrine subpopulation (Ca-1) enriched in CDC73-mutant PC, exhibiting stem-like properties, elevated cell cycle activity, and pronounced genomic instability. Spatial mapping revealed that Ca-1 cells preferentially localize at the leading edge, forming a fibroinflammatory niche characterized by the enrichment of inflammatory cancer-associated fibroblasts (iCAFs) and SPP1+ macrophages. Within this niche, the dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP4) is selectively expressed in Ca-1 cells and iCAFs, implicating a potential paracrine axis driving stromal remodeling and immunosuppression. These findings suggest that a spatially organized ecosystem may promote PC progression through TME remodeling and highlight the DPP4-CXCL2 axis as a candidate pathway for future investigation in aggressive parathyroid neoplasms.© the author(s).
Peripheral T-cell lymphoma, not otherwise specified (PTCL-NOS), is a heterogeneous nodal T- and natural killer (NK)-cell lymphoma with limited prognostic biomarkers. A subset of PTCL-NOS characterized by Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) involvement in tumour cells has recently been recognized as EBV-positive nodal T- and NK-cell lymphoma (EBV+ nPTCL), a distinct entity in the fifth edition of the World Health Organization classification of haematolymphoid neoplasms (WHO-HAEM5). However, the clinical significance of circulating EBV deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) in PTCL-NOS remains unclear. Patients initially diagnosed with PTCL-NOS who received first-line systemic chemotherapy at a single-centre between 2007 and 2025 were retrospectively analysed. Cases were reclassified according to WHO-HAEM5 using EBV-encoded small ribonucleic acid (EBER) in situ hybridization and pathological review. Among 101 patients, 4 were reclassified as EBV+ nPTCL using a ≥50% tumour cell EBER positivity cut-off and excluded, yielding a cohort of 97 patients with WHO-HAEM5-defined PTCL-NOS. Baseline blood EBV-DNA positivity was observed in 42.3%. EBV-DNA-positive patients demonstrated significantly shorter progression-free and overall survival (OS) compared with EBV-DNA-negative patients. In multivariate analyses, EBV-DNA positivity independently predicted poorer survival outcomes. Exploratory analyses indicated that EBV-DNA clearance during chemotherapy was associated with improved OS. These findings suggest that blood EBV-DNA may serve as a prognostic biomarker in patients with PTCL-NOS.© 2026 The Author(s). British Journal of Haematology published by British Society for Haematology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42567738
Postoperative radiation therapy (PORT) is widely recommended following surgical resection of adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC) of the major salivary glands, yet its association with overall survival in the contemporary treatment era remains incompletely characterized. Using the National Cancer Database, we identified 2,384 patients with nonmetastatic ACC of the major salivary glands who underwent definitive surgical resection between 2004 and 2021. Of these, 1,776 (74.5%) received PORT and 608 (25.5%) underwent surgery alone. Median follow-up was 75.9 months, and follow-up was censored at 100 months to account for the indolent natural history of ACC. PORT was associated with improved 8-year overall survival compared to surgery alone (76.9% vs 70.3%), which remained significant on multivariable analysis after adjustment for age, sex, comorbidity, extent of disease, margin status, and chemotherapy receipt (HR 0.76, 95% CI 0.62-0.95, p = 0.013). This benefit extended to patients with early-stage disease (pT1-2 N0/NX: HR 0.65, 95% CI 0.51-0.85, p = 0.001), large tumors without nodal involvement (pT3-4 N0/NX: HR 0.69, 95% CI 0.48-0.99, p = 0.043), and negative surgical margins (HR 0.67, 95% CI 0.51-0.89, p = 0.006). However, among patients with pT3-4 tumors and positive surgical margins, PORT was not associated with improved overall survival (HR 0.81, 95% CI 0.48-1.37, p = 0.423), a finding that was robust on adjusted analysis (HR 0.97, 95% CI 0.56-1.68, p = 0.913). This subgroup may represent a biologically distinct and more aggressive subset of ACC in whom locoregional therapy alone is insufficient to alter survival outcomes, possibly due to a higher propensity for distant metastasis driving mortality. These findings support the broad use of PORT in nonmetastatic major salivary gland ACC while identifying a high-risk subgroup warranting further investigation into the role of systemic therapy and intensified multimodality treatment.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567077 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567017 is a review article
Axillary surgery for early breast cancer has become less aggressive. However, the optimal approach after neoadjuvant systemic therapy (NST) remains uncertain and depends on axillary response. Especially the significance of nodal micrometastases (ypN1mi) after NST regarding oncological outcome remains controversial. Our study retrospectively analyzed ypN1mi occurrence in five neoadjuvant GBG/AGO-B trials from 2012 to 2019.We analyzed 3211 high-risk early breast cancer patients from five neoadjuvant chemotherapy studies (GeparSepto, GeparOcto, GeparNuevo, GeparX, GeparOla). Patients who underwent breast surgery were analyzed based on type of axillary surgery, ypN1mi incidence, and its correlation with outcome.98.5% (3163/3211) of patients had breast surgery and axillary information data available. Before NST, 44.1% (1395/3163) had sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB), 0.7% (22/3163) underwent axillary lymph node dissection (ALND), and 55.2% (1746/3163) had no axillary surgery. After NST, 65.3% (2057/3150) underwent axillary surgery: SLNB only in 19.4% (612/3150), targeted lymph node biopsy (TLNB) only in 0.2% (5/3150), targeted axillary dissection (TAD) in 0.9% (27/3150), ALND only in 40.9% (1288/3150), and completion ALND following SLNB, TLNB, or TAD in 4.0% (125/3150). Disease-free survival (DFS) was significantly reduced with hazard ratios (HR) of 2.53 (CI 1.63-3.92; p < 0.001) for ypN1mi and 2.43 (CI 1.98-3.00; p < 0.001) for ypN1 compared to ypN0. Likewise, HRs for overall survival (OS) were 3.17 (CI 1.77-5.68) for ypN1mi and 3.03 (CI 2.28-4.03) for ypN1.Our data suggest that minimal axillary residuals after NST may affect DFS, DDFS and OS; however, further analysis is needed to assess other variables.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566242 is a review article
To evaluate the dosimetric feasibility of combining stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) for peripheral tumors with conventionally fractionated mediastinal lymph node (MLN) radiotherapy in small cell lung cancer (SCLC), with a focus on tumor-nodal spatial separation and geometry-dependent dose redistribution.A retrospective virtual planning study was conducted in 21 patients with peripheral SCLC. Three treatment strategies were generated: (1) SBRT 40 Gy in 5 fractions plus MLN radiotherapy 60 Gy in 30 fractions, (2) SBRT 50 Gy in 5 fractions plus MLN radiotherapy, and (3) conventional thoracic radiotherapy (60 Gy in 30 fractions). Target coverage and dose-volume parameters for organs at risk (OARs) were compared. Biological dose normalization using equivalent dose in 2 Gy fractions (EQD2), based on the linear-quadratic model, and prescription-matched sensitivity analyses were performed.All strategies achieved adequate target coverage. SBRT-based approaches significantly reduced low-dose lung exposure compared with conventional radiotherapy, particularly in the 40 Gy regimen (lung V5 - 7.34%, V10 - 3.34%, V20 - 2.20%; all p ≤ 0.003), along with a reduction in mean lung dose (-125.74 cGy, p < .001). In exploratory EQD2-normalized analysis, the reduction in mean lung dose remained statistically significant (-0.95 Gy EQD2, p < .001). In prescription-matched analyses, lung V5 remained significantly lower, indicating that differences were not solely attributable to prescription dose. Patients with tumor-nodal spatial separation ≥2 cm exhibited lower doses to multiple OARs, supporting a geometry-dependent reduction in normal tissue exposure.Combining SBRT with MLN radiotherapy is dosimetrically feasible in selected patients with SCLC, with feasibility strongly influenced by tumor-nodal spatial separation. Reduced low-dose lung exposure appears to be associated with geometry-dependent dose redistribution. These findings provide a rationale for further investigation of geometry-informed treatment strategies in prospective clinical studies.
To evaluate stage-dependent performance of same-session [18F]FDG PET/contrast-enhanced CT (PET/ceCT) for initial breast cancer staging and PET/ceCT-detected relapse patterns during follow-up.This retrospective single-centre study included a primary staging cohort with one index PET/ceCT per patient and a longitudinal cohort of follow-up/restaging examinations. PET/ceCT-derived endpoints were assessed against clinically adjudicated reference standards established through multidisciplinary team review, pathology when available and follow-up imaging. SUVmax and ceCT lesion diameter were analysed as exploratory biomarkers.The staging cohort included 116 patients. Baseline stage was evaluable in 106 patients: 65 had cN-positive disease, 9 had cT3-4 cN0 disease and 32 had cT1-2 cN0 disease. Overall nodal staging performance showed sensitivity 64.8%, specificity 88.9%, PPV 92.0%, NPV 56.1% and accuracy 72.9%. In cT3-4 and/or cN-positive disease, PET-positive nodal findings had a PPV of 100%. Baseline M-stage assessment was limited by the low number of clinically confirmed M1 cases. SUVmax correlated with Ki-67 (rho = 0.322, p = 0.003, q = 0.022). The longitudinal cohort included 176 patients and 429 examinations. In 311 adjudicated examinations, restaging performance for disease progression showed sensitivity 100%, specificity 93.5%, PPV 97.3%, NPV 100% and accuracy 98.1%. First confirmed relapse was multiorgan/multisystem in 48/82 patients and visceral-only in 15/82; visceral conversion occurred in 5/16 patients with initial bone-only or nodal/locoregional relapse.Same-session [18F]FDG PET/ceCT showed greatest baseline utility in higher-risk breast cancer and was useful for longitudinal characterization of relapse phenotype and metastatic evolution.© 2026. The Author(s).
Both diet and aging shape the gut microbiota, yet how their combined remodeling propagates across microbial function to host barrier and brain outcomes remains poorly understood. Despite abundant links between Short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) and intestinal health, integrative studies that connect community ecology with SCFA linked metabolism, epithelial signaling, systemic inflammation, behavior, and test causal reversibility are limited. In this study, we assessed gut microbiota and function alongside host tissues and behavior. In mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD), particularly in the 12-month-old cohort, we observed hippocampal-dependent cognitive and locomotor deficits (longer escape latency, fewer platform crossings, reduced target-quadrant time; lower distance, speed and center time), accompanied by systemic inflammation, with serum lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and cytokines (IL-6 and TNF-α) elevated and associated with adiposity. We then profiled the gut microbiota and its functions alongside host tissues and behavior, finding that HFD and age reduced α-diversity and shifted β-diversity, with a selective depletion of Muribaculaceae and depressed SCFA-linked pathways. Muribaculaceae abundance positively correlated with predicted SCFA-related pathways, while qRT-PCR of microbial fermentation genes supported concurrent functional alterations. In the colon, ELISA-measured butyrate level, SCFA receptors Ffar2, Ffar3 and tight-junction genes Tjp1 and Ocln were downregulated, with ZO-1 and occludin mislocalization, while serum LPS and inflammatory cytokines increased and associated with adiposity. Notably, an intervention arm showed that sodium butyrate supplementation attenuated cytokinemia, restored Ffar2, Ffar3 and tight-junction expression, improved ZO-1 and occludin integrity, and rescued behavioral performance. Collectively, these findings support an association between Muribaculaceae depletion, reduced SCFA-related functional signatures, impaired barrier associated markers, systemic inflammation, and behavioral deficits under HFD and age-associated conditions. In an intervention setting, butyrate supplementation partially ameliorated inflammatory and barrier-related readouts and improved behavioral performance.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Given the limited knowledge of probiotic effects on clock genes, this study investigated whether probiotics that regulate gut integrity and microbiota balance influence central circadian clock gene expression. In this study conducted on three groups [control group (CG), shifted group (SG), and shifted and probiotic supplement group (SPG)] of eight BALB/c mice each, Clock, Bmal1, and Per2 gene expressions and weight gain were evaluated. Although body weights at baseline, week 8, and week 16 were similar among groups, weight gain over time was significantly higher in the SG and SPG groups (p<0.05). Significant differences were observed between CG and SG at week 8 and between SG and SPG at week 16. Gene expression analyses revealed no significant differences in Clock expression. However, Bmal1 expression at ZT18 was significantly different between the CG and SPG groups (p = 0.045). These findings demonstrate the regulatory effect of probiotic supplementation on circadian disruption and weight gain, suggesting a potential role in circadian rhythm management. Nevertheless, the results should be interpreted cautiously because they are based on limited gene expression changes and require confirmation in larger studies.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Nutrition & Food Research published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Immune evasion in lung cancer is tightly regulated by epigenetic mechanisms. This study identifies key epigenetic drivers of immune escape in lung cancer and elucidates how they remodel the tumor microenvironment to induce CD8+ T cell exhaustion. We performed a CRISPR-negative screen targeting 159 epigenetic regulators (mEpi driver library) in a mouse model of lung metastasis and used single-cell sequencing, cell-based experiments, and chromatin analyses to identify mechanisms of immune escape. SET domain-containing protein 2 (SETD2) emerged as a critical suppressor of immune evasion. Loss of SETD2 markedly increased lung colonization and metastasis in mice with intact T cells, whereas this effect disappeared after T cell depletion. Mechanistically, SETD2 recruited adenine-thymine-rich interaction domain-containing protein 2 (ARID2) to maintain a repressive chromatin state at genes encoding the chemokines C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1, 2, and 5. Loss of the SETD2-ARID2 axis increased secretion of these chemokines and recruited polymorphonuclear myeloid-derived suppressor cells, which inhibit T cell responses. These cells increased expression of free fatty acid receptor 2 (FFAR2), depleted arginine from the tumor environment, and impaired signaling required for T cell activation, driving cytotoxic T cells into terminal exhaustion. Depleting polymorphonuclear myeloid-derived suppressor cells or conditionally deleting FFAR2 in these cells restored T cell function and reduced metastasis of SETD2-deficient tumors. These findings show that loss of SETD2 creates an arginine-depleted, immunosuppressive tumor environment through a chemokine-FFAR2 pathway, revealing an epigenetic-metabolic immune checkpoint that may inform combination treatments for lung cancer.Copyright © 2026 Xuyu Gu et al.
Acute lung injury/acute respiratory distress syndrome (ALI/ARDS) is an acute, life-threatening form of pulmonary disease characterized by systemic inflammation, for which current treatments are not sufficiently effective. Platelet-derived exosomes (PLT-exos) are noted for their specific targeting ability to inflammatory sites, minimal immunogenicity, and positive anti-inflammatory effects, positioning them as a promising therapeutic candidate. However, the specific effects and mechanisms of PLT-exos in ALI/ARDS remain poorly understood. Here, utilizing a lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced ALI model in murine and cell models, we first demonstrated that activated platelet-derived exosomes (AP-exos) are preferentially taken up by lung macrophages, leading to suppressed macrophage M1 polarization and PANoptosis and reduced lung inflammation and injury, which were closely linked to the inhibition of MAPK pathway activity. Mechanistically, the protective effects of AP-exos were partially mediated by the highly enriched miR-142-3p, as evidenced by the intervention with miR-142-3p significantly inhibiting their protective effect against LPS-induced ALI injury in mice. Furthermore, we noted a negative correlation between the level of miR-142-3p derived from plasma exosomes and the severity of ARDS, suggesting its potential in predicting the severity of ARDS. Further investigation revealed that TMEM120B (T120B) functions as a downstream target of miR-142-3p. Overall, the findings suggested that activated platelets release exosomes that inhibit macrophage M1 polarization and PANoptosis, contributing to the pathogenesis of ARDS via the miR-142-3p/T120B/MAPK axis.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Urate transporter 1 (URAT1, encoded by SLC22A12) is a key mediator of renal urate reabsorption and an important pharmacological target for urate-related disorders. Sodium butyrate (BuNa), a gut microbiota derived short-chain fatty acid, has been implicated in host metabolic regulation, but its role in renal urate transport remains unclear. Here, using molecular docking, cellular thermal shift assays, immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry and multi-omics analyses, we identified free fatty acid receptor 2 (FFAR2) as a direct target of BuNa in renal proximal tubular HK2 cells . BuNa binding upregulated FFAR2 and promoted URAT1 expression and urate uptake via an FFAR2-dependent pathway. Mechanistically, BuNa/FFAR2 signaling acts via GNAQ to activate PLCβ, generating diacylglycerol and engaging a PKC-dependent p38 MAPK/ELK1 cascade that upregulates arrestin beta 2 (ARRB2). ARRB2 directly binds to IκB, preventing its phosphorylation-dependent degradation, thereby stabilizing IκB and inhibiting NF-κB nuclear translocation. Within the SLC22A12 promoter, NF-κB (RELA/p50) and hepatocyte nuclear factor 1 beta (HNF1β) compete for overlapping binding sites. By blocking NF-κB nuclear entry, BuNa relieves this competition, permitting HNF1β-driven SLC22A12 transcription. Thus, BuNa enhances URAT1-mediated urate reabsorption in HK2 cells via an FFAR2/GNAQ/p38 MAPK/ELK1/ARRB2 axis that stabilizes IκB, suppresses NF-κB, and relieves the competitive binding between NF-κB and HNF1β on the SLC22A12 promoter. These findings establish a previously unrecognized gut microbiota-kidney axis linking microbial BuNa to renal urate homeostasis through a novel transcriptional regulatory circuit.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42539514 is a review article
The mechanisms sustaining chronic inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) remain incompletely understood. Here we show that branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) catabolism, mediated by the mitochondrial enzyme BCAT2, sustained interferon-driven macrophage activation in autoimmune arthritis. Multi-omics and histological analyses of individuals with active RA or sustained remission revealed that active disease was associated with systemic BCAA depletion, synovial branched-chain ketoacid accumulation and elevated BCAT2 expression in interferon-responsive synovial macrophages. Mechanistically, interferon-γ induced BCAT2 transcription through the transcription factor IRF1 in RA synovial macrophages. In human monocyte-derived macrophages, BCAT2-dependent BCAA catabolism elevated mitochondrial reactive oxygen species, which in turn restrained SHP-1 activity, prolonged STAT1 and STAT2 phosphorylation and drove inflammatory cytokine production. Furthermore, myeloid-specific deletion of Bcat2 ameliorated collagen antibody-induced arthritis in mice. Pharmacological targeting of this pathway with telmisartan suppressed persistent arthritis in methotrexate-treated mice. Together, our findings identified BCAT2-dependent amino acid catabolism as a potentially targetable metabolic pathway in autoimmune arthritis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.
Hepatic fibrosis (HF) serves as a critical pathological process underlying the progression of cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Despite its clinical relevance, effective anti‑fibrotic therapies remain scarce. Although total ginsenosides (GSS) can ameliorate hepatic oxidative damage and attenuate the development of HF, the molecular mechanism mediating their anti‑fibrotic effects remains incompletely elucidated. Notably, circadian clock gene dysregulation is associated with hepatic metabolic dyshomeostasis and the fibrotic process. As a core circadian gene in the liver, clock circadian regulator (CLOCK) serves a role in the progression of fibrosis. The present study hypothesized that GSS may exert anti‑fibrotic effects by restoring hepatic circadian rhythmicity through circadian clock‑dependent pathways. Using a well‑established carbon tetrachloride‑induced murine model of HF in C57BL/6 mice, GSS was administered intraperitoneally at graded doses of 50, 100 and 200 mg/kg. Subsequently, serum and liver tissues were collected from mice for histopathological examination. Furthermore, the expression levels of fibrotic markers (α‑smooth muscle actin and collagen type 1) and circadian rhythm genes [CLOCK, basic helix‑loop‑helix ARNT‑like 1, cryptochrome (CRY)1, CRY2, period circadian protein homolog (PER)1 and PER2 were assessed. At the cellular level, LX‑2 hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) were activated with TGF‑β1 and treated with GSS, after which, RNA sequencing was performed on GSS‑treated cells. In addition, the CLOCK inhibitor (CLK8) was used for in vitro experiments. The results of the present study revealed that GSS intervention effectively reversed the dysregulation of circadian gene expression and alleviated the progression of fibrosis. Molecular docking analysis further supported the interaction between GSS active components and the CLOCK protein. Thus, the current study focused on GSS and explored its role in ameliorating HF through regulation of the core circadian gene CLOCK. Collectively, the findings demonstrated that GSS may alleviate HF by rescuing circadian clock‑driven circadian homeostasis in hepatocytes and HSCs, thereby providing mechanistic insight into traditional Chinese medicine‑based interventions and identifying CLOCK as a druggable node for fibrosis therapy.
Central nervous system (CNS) injuries often result in permanent neurological impairments or fatal outcomes. While circadian regulation is a key pathway affecting the regenerative capacity of peripheral neurons, the role of the intrinsic circadian clock in CNS axon regeneration remains elusive. Using a zebrafish larval model with disrupted circadian rhythms, we observed significant inhibition of CNS axon regeneration in a single Mauthner cell (M cell). Mutations or inhibition of the core circadian clock gene per2 in zebrafish larvae severely impaired axon regeneration and acoustically evoked escape movements. Time-of-day-dependent transcriptomic analysis revealed that per2 regulates genes involved in regeneration-related pathways, such as mitochondrial metabolism and Wnt signaling transduction. Furthermore, reverse transcription quantitative PCR and Western blot experiments indicated that the neurotrophic factor carboxypeptidase E (Cpe) exhibits robust circadian rhythmicity in wild-type but is significantly downregulated in per2 -/- mutants. Cpe deficiency significantly suppressed axonal regeneration, whereas its overexpression enhanced regenerative capacity, thereby rescuing the axonal regeneration impairment in per2 -/- mutants. Overall, our findings demonstrate the critical role of a stable circadian rhythm system and per2 in CNS regeneration, as well as the potential function of Cpe in promoting axon regeneration.
The treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) has challenges such as drug resistance and recurrence. Concurrently, the induction of apoptosis and ferroptosis is a promising therapeutic strategy. This study aimed to investigate whether the natural product, verbascoside, induces apoptosis and ferroptosis in NSCLC cells by targeting BCAT2.Bioinformatic analysis was used to predict the potential targets of verbascosides. Stable cell lines with BCAT2 knockdown and overexpression were constructed. The effects of verbascoside on NSCLC were evaluated in vitro and using a mouse xenograft model.Bioinformatics screening and molecular docking identified BCAT2 as a potential target of verbascoside, with a significantly stronger binding energy (-7.8 kcal/mol) than another candidate, PARP1. In vitro and in vivo experiments confirmed that BCAT2 knockdown significantly inhibited NSCLC cell viability, induced apoptosis and ferroptosis, and induced mitochondrial damage. Conversely, BCAT2 overexpression produced opposite effects. Verbascoside treatment inhibited BCAT2 expression in a concentration-dependent manner, recapitulating the apoptotic, ferroptotic, and mitochondrial damage phenotypes induced by BCAT2 knockdown; however, BCAT2 overexpression significantly reversed these effects of verbascoside. In an animal model, treatment with verbascoside significantly suppressed tumor growth and activated apoptosis and ferroptosis in tumor tissues by downregulating BCAT2.Verbascoside can induce apoptosis and ferroptosis in NSCLC by directly targeting and inhibiting BCAT2, leading to mitochondrial dysfunction. This finding not only reveals BCAT2 as a novel target of verbascoside but also confirms its ability to induce apoptosis and ferroptosis in NSCLC cells.Copyright: © 2026 Li et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Post-translational modifications, particularly SUMOylation, plays a crucial role in α-synuclein (α-syn) aggregation, a key pathological feature of Parkinson's disease (PD). Curcumin, a natural polyphenol, has shown neuroprotective potential, but its effects on SUMOylation-related signaling in PD remain unclear.This study aimed to investigate whether curcumin modulates α-syn SUMOylation and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms in PD model mice.A PD model was established in male C57BL/6 mice via unilateral intrastriatal injection of α-syn preformed fibrils (PFFs). Six months after α-syn PFFs injection, mice were treated intravenously with curcumin (25 mg/kg/day) or vehicle for 1 month. Behavioral tests (open field, rotarod) assessed motor function. Neuropathology was evaluated by immunohistochemistry and western blotting for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), phosphorylated α-syn (p-syn), SUMOylation pathway components (SUMO1, SAE2, UBC9, PIAS1/2), and ubiquitin. Striatal dopamine levels were measured by HPLC.Curcumin treatment ameliorated motor deficits and anxiety-like behaviors in PD mice. It partially preserved dopaminergic neurons and reduced p-syn aggregation in the substantia nigra, accompanied by increased striatal dopamine levels. Mechanistically, curcumin was associated with reduced SUMO1 and increased ubiquitin levels, suggesting modulation of SUMOylation-related signaling. Among SUMOylation enzymes, UBC9 expression was decreased, whereas E1 (SAE2) and E3 (PIAS1/2) components were not substantially affected.Our findings demonstrated that curcumin exerted neuroprotective effects in a PD model by attenuating α-syn pathology. The protective mechanism involves the inhibition of α-syn SUMOylation, primarily through the downregulation of the UBC9 enzyme. This study identifies UBC9-mediated SUMOylation as a potential target for curcumin and highlight a promising strategy for modifying α-syn-associated pathology in PD.Copyright © 2026 Li, Zhu and Zhang.
RNA 5-methylcytosine (m5C) methylation has emerged as an important epitranscriptomic regulator of gene expression, yet its role in stem cell maintenance remains not well understood. Here we identify a previously unrecognized function of the m5C methyltransferase NSUN2 in protecting stem cells from ferroptosis and promoting tissue regeneration. NSUN2 deletion reduced GPX4 expression, decreased intracellular GSH levels, increased Fe2+ accumulation, and enhanced lipid peroxidation in stem cells, leading to ferroptotic cell death, loss of tissue stem cells and impaired tissue regeneration across multiple organs. Mechanistically, NSUN2 catalyzed m5C methylation of Klf4 mRNA, thereby increasing KLF4 expression and transcriptionally promoting GPX4 to suppress ferroptosis in stem cells. Importantly, KLF4 restoration in vivo rescued NSUN2 deficiency-induced stem cell defects and impaired tissue regeneration. Furthermore, NSUN2 gene therapy significantly bolstered tissue stem cells with superior tissue regeneration and repair in multiple tissues. These findings highlight the NSUN2/KLF4/GPX4 axis in safeguarding stem cells against ferroptosis for tissue repair and a promising therapeutic value of NSUN2 in regenerative medicine.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor beta (RORβ) is a transcription factor expressed in the central nervous system, retina, and bone that regulates circadian rhythms, retinal neurogenesis, and inflammatory signaling. Despite these critical functions, the mechanisms governing RORβ stability remain poorly understood. Here, we identify a post-translational regulatory axis in which the lysine acetyltransferase p300 and the NAD+-dependent deacetylase SIRT1 control RORβ stability and transcriptional activity. p300-mediated acetylation increases RORβ abundance, while SIRT1 modulates turnover through both catalytic and non-catalytic scaffolding mechanisms. K176 acetylation in the hinge primes UBC9/PIAS1-mediated SUMOylation at nearby K179, marking RORβ for proteasomal degradation and reducing transcriptional output, providing a mechanistic framework for targeting RORβ in neurological and retinal disorders, and bone homeostasis.
This study investigated the role of Krüppel-like factor 4 (KLF4) in macrophage-mediated inflammation in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) with psoriasis. KLF4, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases 3 (TIMP3)/a disintegrin and a metalloproteinase domain 17 (ADAM17) levels were measured in skin samples from patients. A diabetic psoriasis-like dermatitis mouse model was established using imiquimod (IMQ) and treated with KLF4-overexpressing lentivirus. Glucose/lipid metabolism, skin pathology, mast cell counts, and inflammatory markers were assessed. Macrophage status was evaluated by F4/80 staining. KLF4 was downregulated in patients with T2DM with psoriasis. In mice with diabetic psoriasis-like dermatitis. KLF4 overexpression improved glucose/lipid metabolism and reduced skin erythema, scaling, thickening, psoriasis area severity index, and mast cell infiltration. KLF4 also decreased inflammation and modulated the TIMP3/ADAM17 pathway. These findings indicate that KLF4 ameliorates IMQ-induced inflammation via the TIMP3/ADAM17 pathway in diabetic psoriasis-like dermatitis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42525347 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42523720 is a review article
Ferroptosis caused by metabolic stress is a main contributor to pancreatic β-cell injury in type 2 diabetes. Orphan nuclear receptor NR4A1 can be activated by various stimuli and stressors, but its role remains unclear in pancreatic β-cell ferroptosis. This study focuses on how NR4A1 transcriptionally regulates pancreatic β-cell ferroptosis and reveals its underlying network.The Metabolic parameters, pancreatic morphological alterations and ferroptotic phenotypes were assessed in NR4A1 pancreatic-specific knockout (cKO) mice and flox mice under a high-fat diet. Ferroptosis markers, including ROS, Fe2+, MDA and GSH, were detected in MIN6 cells treated with Cytosporone B (CsnB) and NR4A1 overexpression cells (OV cells). PCR array was used to identify differentially expressed genes in OV cells.Our data showed that under high-fat diet feeding, cKO mice exhibited exacerbated weight gain, hyperglycemia, impaired glucose tolerance, and reduced insulin secretion, accompanied by compensatory islet hypertrophy, a decreased β-cell proportion, and a distinct pancreatic ferroptosis phenotype. In MIN6 cells, the ferroptosis inducer Erastin triggered ROS/Fe2+/MDA accumulation, GSH exhaustion, accompanied by downregulated expression of GPX4 and SLC7A11 (xCT), as well as upregulated levels of PTGS2 (COX2) and ACSL4. These effects were reversed by NR4A1 overexpression or treatment with CsnB in MIN6 cells. Notably, xCT and GPX4 transcript levels did not show a significant increase upon NR4A1 overexpression.Our findings demonstrate that NR4A1 negatively regulates pancreatic β-cell ferroptosis, suggesting its promise as a therapeutic target to safeguard β-cell survival in type 2 diabetes.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Deciphering which transcription factor (TF) motif instances are functionally required for enhancer activity typically demands ChIP-based assays or labor-intensive perturbation experiments. We introduce a virtual motif-perturbation framework that uses AlphaGenome, a large sequence-to-function foundation model, to infer motif-level regulatory contribution directly from DNA sequence. Candidate C/EBP$\mathrm{\beta} $ motifs are identified within chromatin-active regions and systematically ablated in silico; the resulting changes in predicted regulatory activity are quantified and assessed against a sham-derived null distribution to establish statistical confidence. To evaluate whether sequence-level perturbations recapitulate biologically meaningful regulatory dependence, we compared in silico predictions with CUT&RUN measurements of H3K27ac following CEBPB knockout in multiple myeloma cells. Key activating motifs exhibited concordant loss of H3K27ac across both settings, whereas loci with apparent discrepancies reflected biologically interpretable mechanisms. Together, these findings suggest that large sequence-based models can approximate the directional consequences of TF perturbation, supporting motif-level functional analysis directly from DNA sequence. This supports sequence-only virtual ablation as a scalable framework for hypothesis generation and regulatory annotation that can be extended to additional TFs, cell types, and chromatin modalities.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Dysregulation of innate immunity during respiratory RNA virus infections drives systemic hyperinflammation and lung injury. Here, we show that importin β4 (IPO4) has a role in inhibiting antiviral innate immunity. Transcriptomics analysis illustrated a downregulation of IPO4 in alveolar macrophages, lung ciliated epithelium, and peripheral blood mononuclear cells from severely ill patients with COVID-19 or influenza. We further identified CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein beta (CEBPB) as the transcription factor for IPO4 reduction during RNA viral infections. Loss-of-function validation demonstrated that IPO4 dampens the innate antiviral and inflammatory responses in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, IPO4 sequesters fatty acid synthase (FASN) to block palmitic acid production, thereby inhibiting mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein (MAVS) activation and the downstream innate immune signaling. Moreover, Adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated pulmonary restoration of IPO4 significantly alleviated viral pneumonia in mice. These results indicate that the CEBPB-IPO4-FASN-MAVS axis preserves innate immune homeostasis to avoid inflammatory pathology, highlighting IPO4 as a potential therapeutic target for severe viral pneumonia.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Current research into the actions of psychedelic drugs is focused on 5-HT2A receptor-coupled signaling pathways, particularly β-arrestin2 signaling. Here, we investigated the involvement of β-arrestin2 in psychedelic drug-induced mouse markers of hallucinogenic effects, molecular plasticity, and structural plasticity; specifically, the head-twitch response, cortical expression of plasticity-related genes (cFos, Egr1, Egr2, and Arc), and dendritogenesis (primary cortical neuron cultures), respectively. Psilocin-induced head-twitches, plasticity gene expression, and dendritogenesis were all blocked by the 5-HT2A receptor antagonist MDL-100,907. The head-twitch response to psilocin was not different between wildtype and β-arrestin2 knockout (KO) mice, and the head-twitch responses to 2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine (DOI) and lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) were similarly unaffected by β-arrestin2 KO. Psilocin-evoked gene expression showed a trend to be less in β-arrestin2 KO compared to wildtype mice, but the gene expression response to DOI was clearly not altered by β-arrestin2 KO. Finally, psilocin-induced dendritogenesis was attenuated in β-arrestin2 KO versus wild-type cultured neurons, and similar findings were obtained with DOI. In summary, the current study found no convincing evidence to support a role for β-arrestin2 signaling in either the head-twitch or plasticity-related gene responses to the psychedelic drugs tested. However, our data suggest a role for the β-arrestin2 pathway in psychedelic drug-evoked dendritogenesis of cultured neurons. Thus, the β-arrestin2 pathway unlikely mediates the hallucinogenic effects of psychedelic drugs but may contribute to neural plasticity changes in certain models.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Neuromodulation has recently garnered attention as a potent approach to improve sensorimotor function following neural injury. After spinal cord injury, electrical stimulation targets sensorimotor circuitry to enhance volitional movement; however, motor neurons are located in the ventral gray matter. Previously, we developed a versatile wireless stimulation system and surgical approach to selectively activate motor neurons caudal to a cervical spinal cord injury. Here, we empirically tested if ventral epidural stimulation is sufficient to promote lasting recovery of skilled motor function. Ventrally stimulated animals exhibited significantly improved forelimb function associated with electrically stimulated motor pathways. Further, stimulation produced increases in neuronal Nr4a1 expression, a subacute reduction in microglia Nr4a1 expression, and a shift from activated toward ramified microglial morphologies in the stimulated ventral gray matter. This study reports the first successful application of ventral spinal stimulation to improve function in an animal model and the first sustained improvement in skilled forelimb reaching when behavioral testing was decoupled from the stimulation.
Cardiovascular health depends critically on the integrity of the vascular extracellular matrix (ECM) and the behavior of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs), both of which can be adversely affected in vascular diseases. This study quantitatively evaluates the therapeutic potential of conditioned medium (CM) derived from bone marrow (BM-MSCs) and adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs) in an elastase-injured human aortic smooth muscle cell (HASMC) model. We systematically varied seeding densities (2000, 5000, and 10,000 cells/cm2) and serum conditions to optimize the SC-SMC secretome for vascular repair. Our results indicate that neither BM-SMC nor AD-SMC CM significantly enhanced lysyl oxidase (LOX) activity. In fact, serum-supplemented BM-SMC CM significantly suppressed LOX activity at seeding densities of 2000 cells/cm2 (p = 0.0378) and 10,000 cells/cm2 (p = 0.0080) compared to injured untreated controls. High-density AD-SMC CM (10,000 cells/cm2) also resulted in a significant decrease in elastin levels (p < 0.05). In addition, serum presence was critical for maintaining the reparative phenotype. Serum-free (SF) conditions for both cell sources led to widespread, statistically significant reductions (p < 0.0001) in key repair and inflammatory biomarkers, including PDGF-AA, Leptin, Lipocalin-2, Osteopontin, RBP4, MMP-1, and IL-6. IL-11 emerged as a primary discriminatory biomarker, showing significant differences between BM and AD treatments at high seeding densities, with both sources causing a significant decrease (p < 0.0001) compared to injured untreated controls. These findings demonstrate that seeding density and serum conditions are critical variables that quantitatively modulate the efficacy of SC-SMC-CM. The study highlights that BM-SMC-derived CM offers a more stable platform for elastin maintenance under serum-free conditions, providing a foundation for developing tailored, cell-free regenerative therapies for cardiovascular disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
BACKGROUND Allergic rhinitis (AR) is a common inflammatory disorder of the nasal mucosa triggered by allergens and characterized by sneezing, nasal congestion, and itching. This study aimed to identify and validate potential biomarkers associated with immune dysregulation in AR via bioinformatics analyses initiated with chemokine-related genes. MATERIAL AND METHODS AR-related datasets (GSE75011 and GSE50223) and 69 chemokine-related genes were analyzed via differential expression analysis and weighted gene co-expression network analysis to identify candidate genes. Random forest analysis was used to select optimal features. Expression analysis identified potential immunoregulatory biomarkers that were downregulated in AR samples. A nomogram incorporating these biomarkers was constructed as an exploratory tool to estimate individual AR probability and support future diagnostic model development. RESULTS Early growth response protein 2 (EGR2) and transforming growth factor-ß1 (TGFB1) were identified as chemokine-related biomarkers in AR. Immune infiltration analysis showed significant correlations between TGFB1 and M2 macrophages, as well as activated memory CD4+ T cells. Drug prediction identified tretinoin as a potential therapeutic agent targeting both biomarkers; molecular docking confirmed stable binding of the 3 top-ranked predicted drugs with TGFB1. Pilot reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis demonstrated downregulation of EGR2 and TGFB1 in AR samples, providing preliminary supportive evidence. Gene set enrichment analysis indicated involvement in the MAPK and p53 signaling pathways, suggesting roles in cell proliferation, apoptosis, cell cycle regulation, and stress responses. CONCLUSIONS EGR2 and TGFB1 offer potential immunoregulatory biomarkers for AR diagnosis and may provide preliminary insights into AR pathogenesis and potential treatment strategies.
Macrophages in breast cancer are highly heterogeneous and targeting both tissue-resident and bone marrow-derived macrophages represents a high-potential strategy in breast cancer immunotherapy.Myeloid-specific Egr2 knockout (KO) mice were used to determine roles of macrophage Egr2 signaling in tumor progression and anti-tumor immune responses. RNA-seq analysis and Flow cytometry were used to examine regulation of Egr2 in tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) and fatty acid-stimulated macrophages. Tumor cell and macrophage admixture study was used to evaluate effects of fatty acid educated macrophages on anti-tumor responses.Here we showed that early growth response 2 (Egr2) was highly expressed in mammary tissue macrophages and recruited macrophages upon tumor progression. Depletion of Egr2 in myeloid cells significantly decreased the immunosuppressive function of polarized M2-like macrophages and TAMs. Tumor progression was delayed in myeloid cell Egr2 knockout mice, which was associated with enhanced function of effector CD8+ T cells and NK cells. Mechanistically, we showed that retinol and nicotinamide metabolism in TAMs were impaired after Egr2 depletion. Further, tumor cell-derived stearic acid (SA) was identified as an important fatty acid inducing Egr2 expression. SA stimulation induced macrophage-mediated immunosuppression in an Egr2 dependent manner. Addition of oleic acid (OA) uniquely repressed SA-induced Egr2 expression and immunosuppressive activity in macrophages.Our study thus uncovers a novel SA-Egr2 pathway driving macrophage immunosuppression and novel molecular mechanism of OA mediated anti-tumor effect.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an aggressive hematologic malignancy with poor clinical outcomes and limited therapeutic options. Aberrant activation of the IKKβ-NF-κB pathway occurs in approximately 40% of AML cases and contributes to leukemogenesis. However, pharmacological inhibition of IKKβ has been limited by serious toxicities, including neutrophilia. Here we identify IKKβ and NR4A1 as critical drivers of AML progression in certain models and develop a proteolysis-targeting chimera (PROTAC) capable of degrading the proteins. Although NR4A1 has previously been described as a tumor suppressor in AML, our findings demonstrate that NR4A1 exhibits oncogenic functions in some AMLs of the (pro)monocytic lineage. Notably, elevated expression of IKKβ and NR4A1 in AML is associated with poor clinical outcomes, playing non-redundant oncogenic roles in AML. To therapeutically target IKKβ and NR4A1, we designed and synthesized a series of celastrol-based PROTACs that exploit celastrol's ability to bind both IKKβ and NR4A1. Among these compounds, the lead A9 induces potent cytotoxicity in multiple AML cell lines and primary AML samples through cereblon E3 ligase-dependent degradation of IKKβ and/or NR4A1. In vivo, A9 suppresses leukemia progression in a KMT2A::MLLT3 AML mouse model without inducing neutrophilia, supporting PROTAC-mediated degradation of IKKβ and NR4A1 as a promising therapeutic strategy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567490 is a review article
The ability to tightly regulate and maintain a warm core body temperature (Tb) is a defining characteristic of homeotherms. Moving to a thermally preferred place is an energetically efficient first-line thermoregulatory mechanism. We optimized a mouse binary thermal preference assay, selecting floor plate temperatures of 38°C vs 25°C for males and 39°C vs 30°C for females as having no baseline preference. Warm preference was increased in females, by fasting, and with age. Genetic manipulations that increased warm preference included ablation of uncoupling protein 1 (Ucp1) or of all four adenosine receptors (Adora1, Adora2a, Adora2b, Adora3). Ablation of estrogen receptor α (Esr1) reduced the preference for the warmer side in females but had no effect on preference in males. Mice treated with the β3 adrenergic receptor agonist CL-316243 or the adenosine receptor 3 agonist MRS5698 sought the cooler surface. Thermal preference assays complement the measurement of Tb, providing information about whether a change in Tb reflects a new target or setpoint Tb caused by the intervention, or if the mouse is trying to maintain an unchanged Tb. Thermal preference can be more sensitive than baseline Tb for detecting changes in thermal physiology.
Rearrangements involving MECOM at chromosome 3q26.2 are recurrent in myeloid neoplasms, classically represented by inv(3)(q21q26.2) and t(3;3)(q21;q26.2), which reposition the GATA2-distal haematopoietic enhancer and drive aberrant EVI1 overexpression. However, the full structural and mechanistic diversity of MECOM rearrangements (MECOM-r) is yet to be explored. We retrospectively analysed 97 cases with cytogenetically defined MECOM-r and identified 12 with complex rearrangements using GTG-banded karyotyping and tri-colour interphase/metaphase fluorescence in situ hybridisation analyses. These 12 cases demonstrated remarkable structural heterogeneity. The abnormalities encompassed translocations, inversions, insertions, duplications, and deletions, which often coexisted within the same specimen as multiple rearranged subclones. Insertional events emerged as a distinct mechanism of MECOM activation. These encompassed insertions of MYNN and/or MECOM into chromosomes 1 and 6, insertion of chromosome 8 segment into MECOM, and inverted insertions between homologous chromosome 3 segments. Recurrent breakpoints at 3q21 across multiple cases, together with localised copy number imbalances frequently involving the MYNN and GOLIM4 loci at 3q26.2, underscore the architectural fragility of these two regions. Co-occurring abnormalities such as -5/del(5q), -7/del(7q), and TP53 loss were common, reflecting a permissive genomic background for chromosomal reassembly. Our findings expand the mechanistic landscape of MECOM-r beyond canonical inv(3)/t(3;3), establishing 3q21 and 3q26.2 as structural 'hotspots' and genomic instability hubs. Distinct from fusion-driven oncogenes such as KMT2A, MECOM activation results from enhancer hijacking and regional structural remodelling, leading to EVI1 overexpression and clonal evolution in myeloid malignancies.Copyright © 2026 Royal College of Pathologists of Australasia. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Germline GATA2 deficiency is a pleiotropic condition 1-8 characterized by numerous phenotypes, including monocytopenia, immunodeficiency, microbial susceptibilities, and high rates of myeloid malignancies 1,8. Accurate curation of germline GATA2 variants is critical for patient care and requires well-defined phenotypes associated with GATA2 deficiency. The many phenotypes attributed to the condition render a simple description of GATA2 deficiency difficult, complicating the development of GATA2 variant curation rules. Therefore, the Myeloid Malignancy Variant Curation Expert Panel (MM-VCEP) sought to define GATA2 deficiency based on a statistical comparison of phenotype data. To do so, the MM-VCEP systematically analyzed phenotype data and applied statistical comparisons to define the phenotypic features of GATA2 deficiency to inform germline variant curation. The MM-VCEP assembled an international cohort of 339 people with clinically diagnosed GATA2 deficiency from 16 centers in seven countries. The 73 phenotypes of these individuals were compared statistically to those of control participants from the UK Biobank (UKBB). We compared single phenotypes as well as combinations of two, three, and four phenotypes in people with clinically diagnosed GATA2 deficiency to UKBB controls. We defined GATA2 deficiency as any of the 2,903 combinations of two or three phenotypes with log10Odds Ratio ≥3 (OR ≥ 1000). This definition of GATA2 deficiency will inform gene-specific phenotypic criteria used in GATA2 variant curation guidelines that will facilitate standardized variant curation by clinical laboratories worldwide.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
Antibiotic-induced disruption of the gut microbiota is known to influence host metabolism; however, whether its metabolic effects depend on the duration of exposure remains unclear, particularly in relation to adipose thermogenesis under high-fat diet (HFD) conditions.C57BL/6 mice fed an HFD were treated with a broad-spectrum antibiotic cocktail for either short-term (2 weeks) or long-term (10 weeks). Body weight, adiposity, metabolic parameters, and energy expenditure were assessed. Thermogenic capacity was evaluated by histology and gene expression analysis in brown and white adipose tissues, following stimulation with the β3-adrenergic receptor agonist CL316243. Gut microbiota composition was analyzed using 16S rRNA sequencing.Short-term antibiotic treatment attenuated HFD-induced weight gain, reduced fat accumulation, and increased weight-adjusted CL316243-stimulated metabolic rate, accompanied by upregulation of thermogenic genes (Ppargc1a, Pparg, Ucp1). In contrast, long-term treatment exacerbated obesity, decreased metabolic rate and rectal temperature, and suppressed thermogenic gene expression. Microbiota analysis revealed partial recovery of α-diversity after short-term intervention, whereas long-term treatment led to persistent dysbiosis with reduced diversity and altered community structure.The metabolic consequences of antibiotic-induced microbiota disruption are strongly duration-dependent. Transient perturbation is associated with enhanced adipose thermogenesis and energy expenditure, whereas prolonged disruption correlates with impaired thermogenic capacity and worsened metabolic outcomes. However, causal relationships remain to be established. These findings highlight the importance of temporal dynamics in host-microbiota interactions and provide insight into microbiota-targeted strategies for metabolic disorders.Copyright © 2026 Feng, Cui, Bi, Liu, Yang, Ouyang, Xu, Zhao, Xi, Yang, Sun, Wang and Li.
MECOM rearrangements (MECOM-r) are high-risk events in myeloid neoplasms often cryptic or incompletely characterized by conventional karyotype analysis. We used optical genome mapping (OGM) to define the frequency and spectrum of MECOM-r in an unselected, consecutively collected cohort of individuals with high-grade myeloid neoplasms (HGMNs) and compared these findings with standard cytogenetic approaches.A total of 252 HGMN specimens, including 224 with definitive diagnoses of acute myeloid leukemia, were processed over a 2-year period using OGM, G-banded karyotyping and, in some cases, reflex fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) for the MECOM locus. Cases were retrospectively reviewed to determine whether the identification of MECOM-r by OGM refined diagnosis and/or prognosis.Our diagnostic workflow identified MECOM-r in 12 cases (4.7%), only 6 of which were identified by combined karyotype and FISH analyses, the latter for suspected chromosome 3 abnormalities. The remaining 6 cases were cryptic due to normal karyotypes, highly complex karyotypes lacking apparent chromosome 3 involvement, or culture failure and thus were identified by OGM and reflex FISH. Furthermore, OGM clarified complex architectures, resolved genetic alterations, and identified diverse partner loci, including GATA2, THADA, MYC, PHACTR1, MB21D2, XR_001744423.2, IL12A-AS1, TRIM59, CDK6, and MSI2. Detection of these structural alterations prompted diagnostic and/or risk reclassification in 5 cases.Optical genome mapping doubled the detection rate and improved the structural resolution of MECOM-r by identifying rearrangements incompletely resolved or missed by conventional cytogenetics. Implementation of OGM showed that MECOM-r can be cryptic and frequently overlooked, highlighting the value of high-resolution testing in HGMNs.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society for Clinical Pathology.
Severe asthma affects 3%-5% of children and may remain uncontrolled despite high-dose inhaled corticosteroids and other controller therapies. Omalizumab, an anti-IgE monoclonal antibody, is approved for children ≥6 years with severe asthma, however treatment response shows substantial interindividual variability.This study aimed to investigate whether selected single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in genes involved in IgE signaling and immune regulation are associated with clinical response to omalizumab in pediatric severe asthma.In this retrospective cohort study, 30 children with severe asthma treated with omalizumab for 12 months were genotyped for selected SNPs in FCER1B, FCGR2A, FCGR3A, C3, and GATA2 genes. Clinical response was defined as: (i) ≥10% improvement in FEV1%, (ii) ≥50% reduction or absence of asthma exacerbations, and (iii) ≥50% reduction or discontinuation of oral corticosteroids (OCS). A combined response was defined as meeting at least two of these outcomes. Changes in GINA step were also assessed separately.FEV1% improvement showed a nominal association with the variant allele of GATA2 rs4857855 (p = 0.044). Reduction in exacerbation was nominally associated to variant alleles of FCER1B rs573790 (p = 0.003), and GATA2 rs4857855 (p = 0.032). OCS reduction was nominally associated with variant alleles of FCER1B rs573790 (p = 0.037) and FCGR3A rs396991 (p = 0.014). A combined response was nominally associated with FCER1B rs573790 and GATA2 rs4857855 variant alleles (p = 0.012). No SNP was associated with all three outcomes or GINA step reduction.Genetic variability in IgE- and Fc receptor-related pathways may contribute to differential response to omalizumab in children with severe asthma. These findings are exploratory and require validation in larger prospective studies.Copyright © 2026 Rottura, Pirrotta, Cullotta, Marino, Sacco, Gianguzzo, Irrera, Arcoraci, Alibrandi, Galletta, Corso, Leonardi, Manti and Pallio.
Loss-of-function mutations in PSMB8/beta5i and other components of the 20S proteasome result in multi-organ diseases, such as Chronic atypical neutrophilic dermatosis with lipodystrophy and elevated temperature (CANDLE) syndrome. Neurocognitive dysfunction associated with CANDLE suggests that proteasomal mutations may impact neuronal function and development early in life. We generated cerebral organoids (COs) from induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) made from CANDLE patients. The COs from CANDLE iPSCs exhibited impaired neuronal development when compared to COs from healthy control iPSCs. Impaired neuronal maturation in CANDLE COs was correlated with increased polyamines, which were also elevated in CANDLE patient CSF. The proteasome-regulated Ornithine decarboxylase (ODC), the rate limiting enzyme in polyamine biosynthesis, was elevated in CANDLE neurons. Inhibition of ODC reversed polyamine overproduction and repaired neuronal maturation in CANDLE COs, suggesting a potential therapeutic avenue for intervention. These findings demonstrate that dysfunction of the proteasome affects neuronal development through overproduction of polyamines via dysregulation of ODC and offer insight into potential therapeutic strategies for CNS-related proteasomal dysfunction.
Previous studies have shown that the endothelial Ca2+ permeable channel TRPV4 (transient receptor potential channel family V isoform 4) acts as a vasodilator defense against endothelial dysfunction in obesity-induced hypertension. However, the role of endothelial TRPV4 in metabolic homeostasis related to obesity is unclear.We identify endothelial TRPV4 as a previously unknown regulator of obesity-induced metabolic alteration.Endothelial-specific TRPV4-deficient and overexpressing mice were generated. Endothelial TRPV4 knockout exacerbated glucose intolerance, insulin resistance, and impaired lipid metabolism. Conversely, endothelial TRPV4 overexpression restored glucose and lipid homeostasis impaired by a high-fat diet. In white adipose tissue, endothelial TRPV4 not only regulated UCP1 expression but also suppressed multiple proinflammatory genes associated with metabolic dysfunction. Mechanistically, we demonstrated that loss of endothelial TRPV4 decreased flow-induced intracellular Ca2+ influx and the subsequent phosphorylation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (p-eNOS), leading to diminished nitric oxide (NO) production. In contrast, overexpression of endothelial TRPV4 rescued Ca2+-dependent eNOS phosphorylation and NO bioavailability. Furthermore, we identified that TRPV4 activation triggers an AMPK-eNOS signaling axis in endothelial cells, which subsequently activates the sGC/cGMP/PKG pathway in adipocytes via paracrine signaling to promote UCP1 expression. Consistently, direct global knockout of eNOS caused metabolic disorders which were similar to those observed in TRPV4-deficient mice. Importantly, a four-week in vivo rescue experiment with the NO donor DETA-NONOate effectively reversed the metabolic dysfunction and adipose tissue inflammation induced by endothelial TRPV4 deficiency.Endothelial TRPV4 preserves metabolic homeostasis by promoting AMPK/eNOS-derived NO production, which subsequently activates the adipocyte cGMP/PKG signaling axis to mitigate adipose tissue inflammation and metabolic dysfunction of obesity.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This study aims to investigate whether voluntary exercise alleviates obesity-induced metabolic disorders by promoting visceral adipose tissue (VAT) browning and to explore its potential mechanisms.Thirty male C57BL/6J mice were fed a normal diet (ND) or high-fat diet (HFD) for 8 weeks. Obese HFD mice were then divided into sedentary (HFD) or voluntary wheel running (HFD + VWR) groups and switched to standard diet for 4 weeks. VWR mice had access to unlocked running wheels; HFD controls had locked wheels.Voluntary exercise significantly reduced obesity-associated metabolic disturbances compared to HFD controls, including decreased body weight, fat mass, serum insulin, triglycerides (TG), total cholesterol (T-CHO), and hepatic lipid accumulation. Crucially, voluntary exercise enhanced VAT browning, evidenced by upregulated UCP1 and PPAR-γ protein expression, as well as increased mRNA levels of beige adipocyte-specific markers TMEM26 and CD137. Additionally, VWR significantly upregulated the protein expression of the exercise-responsive factor FGF21 in VAT. Mechanistically, the observed browning phenotype was accompanied by alterations in the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling axis, characterized by enhanced PI3K/AKT activity and reduced mTOR phosphorylation, though the causal relationship remains to be established.Voluntary exercise mitigates obesity and metabolic dysfunction, may be associated with the regulation of VAT browning, potentially involving the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling axis, thus enhancing insulin sensitivity and reducing lipid accumulation. Unlike forced exercise, it is low-stress and self-regulated, offering a mechanistic reference for understanding exercise-induced adipose remodeling.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
To explore the potential biological significance and diagnostic value of ferroptosis-related differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in liver fibrosis (LF).Bioinformatic analysis of a publicly available microarray dataset. Place and Duration of the Study: Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, Affiliated Hangzhou First People's Hospital, West Lake University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, China, from June 2 to July 2, 2024.Gene expression data from GSE139602 and ferroptosis-related genes from the GeneCards database were analysed to identify ferroptosis-related DEGs in LF. Functional enrichment, gene set enrichment, immune infiltration, protein-protein interaction, and ROC analyses were performed to identify key genes and their potential roles in LF.Forty-one DEGs were associated with ferroptosis, and LF were identified. Among these, CEBPA, MYC, SCD, and SREBF1 were highlighted as important genes with significant diagnostic ability, confirmed through the receiver operating characteristic curve. Notably, CEBPA and SCD were implicated in fibrosis progression via their roles in lipid metabolism and oxidative stress modulation, which are essential components of ferroptosis.The bioinformatics analysis identified four key ferroptosis-related genes-CEBPA, MYC, SCD, and SREBF1-as diagnostic biomarkers for LF. This study found the ferroptosis-related pathways as potential therapeutic targets for LF.Biomedicine, Liver fibrosis, Ferroptosis, Differentially expressed genes.
Phthalate esters are pervasive endocrine-disrupting chemicals associated with metabolic disorders, but their contribution to metabolic-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) remains unclear. We investigated shared targets and pathways linking eight phthalate-related compounds to MAFLD using network toxicology, transcriptomic data mining, molecular docking, and cellular validation. Integrated analysis identified 75 predicted phthalate-related targets, including 41 MAFLD-associated genes enriched in lipid metabolism and inflammatory pathways. Cross-analysis of three GEO datasets prioritized 14 candidate genes, with PPARG, PTGS2, ESR1, PPARA, and BCL2 showing high network centrality. Molecular docking predicted favorable interactions between the tested compounds and candidate proteins, with monobenzyl phthalate (MBeP) showing the highest predicted affinity. In palmitic acid-oleic acid (PA-OA) -treated HepG2 cells, MBeP increased lipid accumulation, reactive oxygen species generation, apoptosis, and mitochondrial membrane depolarization and altered selected candidate genes. In primary mouse hepatocytes, MBeP similarly increased lipid accumulation and reactive oxygen species generation and altered PTGS2 and PPARA protein expression. These findings identify candidate targets and pathways potentially involved in MBeP-associated hepatic lipid dysregulation and support further mechanistic investigation of phthalate-related effects in MAFLD.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Bisphenol A (BPA), a ubiquitous plasticizer, has been implicated in lipid metabolic imbalance, yet its contribution to nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) remains incompletely understood. Here, we combined NHANES data analysis, network toxicology, microarray profiling, molecular docking and dynamics simulations, and LO2 hepatocyte experiments to investigate the association between BPA exposure and NAFLD and its underlying mechanisms. Epidemiologically, urinary BPA levels were positively associated with NAFLD prevalence. In vitro, low-dose BPA induced hepatocellular triglyceride and cholesterol accumulation and impaired cell function. Mechanistic investigations highlighted inflammatory, steroidogenic, and lipid metabolic pathways. Network pharmacology and gene expression profiling pinpointed MMP9, PTGS2, MMP2, NOS3, and PLAU as key BPA-responsive genes, and experimental validation confirmed upregulation of MMP9, PTGS2, and PLAU transcripts and proteins alongside increased MMP2 protein. These findings integrate population-level, computational, and hepatocyte evidence, suggesting that matrix remodeling, inflammation, and lipid metabolism may underlie the link between BPA exposure and NAFLD.
DOMS is a common post-exercise syndrome characterized by pain, stiffness, and decreased muscle function. Conventional therapies have limited efficacy and have potential side effects.This study explored the molecular mechanisms of Ficus religiosa's alleviation of DOMS using network pharmacology, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulation analyses.This study used a network pharmacology framework to identify and analyze the phytochemicals from F. religiosa. Databases like IMPPAT 2.0 were used to retrieve potential compounds, while SwissTargetPrediction predicted target proteins. Therapeutic targets were identified using Genecards and OMIM databases. Protein-protein interaction networks were analyzed using STRING and Cytoscape software, while pathway enrichment was conducted using Enrichr. Molecular docking was performed using AutoDockTools (v1.5.7), followed by molecular dynamics simulations using GROMACS to validate target-compound interactions.Of the 140 phytochemicals, 44 met the drug-likeness and bioavailability criteria and were associated with 39 potential therapeutic targets for DOMS. KEGG enrichment analysis revealed inflammation, oxidative stress, and immune regulation as the primary mechanisms of action. Prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2 (PTGS2) was identified as a critical target. Molecular docking showed that compounds such as α-eudesmol, epi-γ-eudesmol, and α-cadinol exhibited superior binding affinities for PTGS2 compared to ibuprofen. Finally, molecular dynamics simulation demonstrated that α-cadinol exhibited the most stable binding owing to its robust hydrogen bonding, whereas epi-α-cadinol displayed progressive stabilization and efficient accommodation inside the active region of the protein.This study suggests that F. religiosa could be used as a therapeutic agent for the management of DOMS. The key compounds, α-cadinol and epi-α-cadinol, show potential anti-inflammatory and analgesic effects.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The BRAF V600E mutation is a common driver variant in differentiated thyroid carcinoma (DTC); however, the clinical significance of its co-mutation patterns in the Chinese population remains unclear. This study aimed to analyze the predictive value of BRAF V600E co-mutations for aggressive clinicopathological features in DTC by detecting a 10-gene panel, providing molecular evidence for refined risk stratification.A multicenter cohort of 240 DTC patients from two medical centers was retrospectively enrolled. A 10-gene panel (BRAF V600E, TERT, NRAS, HRAS, KRAS, PIK3CA, RET, PPARG, NTRK1, NTRK3) was assessed using Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) for mutations and fusion events. Based on mutation status, patients were categorized into three groups: BRAF V600E-mutation alone, BRAF V600E co-mutation, and non-BRAF V600E mutation groups. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was performed to evaluate P53 and Ki-67 expression. Clinicopathological characteristics were compared using chi-square, Fisher's exact, or Kruskal-Wallis tests as appropriate. Log-rank test assessed differences in recurrence-free survival (RFS), while binary/ordinal logistic regression analyzed the predictive role of BRAF V600E co-mutations for aggressiveness (capsular invasion, ATA risk stratification, lymph node metastasis, and recurrence).The BRAF V600E co-mutation group (n = 21) exhibited significantly higher rates of capsular invasion (52.4 %vs. 13.2 % and 23.1 %, *p*<0.01) and ATA high-risk classification (57.1 %vs. 25.7 % and 28.8 %, *p*<0.05) compared to the BRAFV600E -mutation alone group (n = 167) and non-BRAFV600E mutation group (n = 52). Tumor stage distribution (AJCC 8th edition) also differed significantly among the three groups, with the co-mutation group showing the highest proportion of advanced T stage (T3-T4) (*p*<0.05). TERT was the most frequently co-mutated gene. Logistic regression revealed that the BRAFV600E co-mutation group had significantly increased risks of capsular invasion (OR = 3.667, 95 % CI: 1.325-10.713) and ATA high-risk status (OR=2.881, 95 % CI: 1.217-6.839). Although P53/Ki-67 expression did not differ significantly among groups (*p* > 0.05), the co-mutation group showed a trend toward higher proportions of cases with Ki-67 ≥ 10 % (9.5 %vs. 7.2 % and 5.7 %, *p*=0.09).These results suggest that BRAFV600E co-mutations are associated with more aggressive DTC features in a Chinese patient cohort. The 10-gene panel used in this analysis may offer potential as a tool for identifying subsets of patients with adverse pathology, such that it warrants further investigation as a tool for refined risk stratification. However, prospective studies are needed to confirm its clinical utility and clarify its potential for optimized patient management..Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) is a widespread plasticizer, but its role in subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) remains unclear. Integrating network toxicology, machine learning, transcriptomics, immune infiltration, molecular docking/dynamics, single-cell RNA sequencing, and in vivo/ in vitro experiments, we identified 264 DEHP-SAH overlapping targets enriched in PI3K-Akt/MAPK pathways. Three core genes (ADORA1, PDGFRA, PTGS2) were screened, with ADORA1 specifically upregulated in astrocytes under SAH. Chronic DEHP exposure exacerbated neurological deficits, neuronal damage, astrocyte proliferation/activation, apoptosis, and inflammatory cytokines in SAH mice, while reducing antioxidant enzymes. In primary astrocytes, DEHP suppressed viability, activated PI3K-Akt/MAPK, and induced oxidative stress and inflammation, synergizing with Hemin. An adverse outcome pathway framework was constructed. These findings reveal that DEHP aggravates SAH neurotoxicity via ADORA1-mediated astrocyte inflammation and oxidative stress through the PI3K-Akt/MAPK axis, providing new insights into environmental pollutant neurotoxicity.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
Adoptive T cell therapy requires T cells to infiltrate vascular tissues and preserve immune function. In solid tumor treatment, however, the surrounding microenvironment produces abnormal vasculature that impedes T cell infiltration. An approach that enables vascular normalization and enhances adoptive T cell function in parallel is essential for effective therapy but has not been reported. Here, we report the use of lenvatinib (LEN) to induce transient vascular normalization, thereby facilitating T cell infiltration. Moreover, LEN enhances T cell persistence by promoting the differentiation of T cells toward a memory phenotype. Our results indicate that the differentiation is by suppressing the PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway, which drives effector differentiation, and by activating FOXO1, a transcription factor that promotes memory formation. To coordinate the transient vascular normalization and T cell enhancement, we link LEN-loaded, PD-L1-blocking micelles to T cells through acid-labile click chemistry, forming pH-responsive T cell-nanodrug conjugates. The conjugates synchronize the intratumoral release of LEN and the PD-L1 antagonist peptide OPBP-1, thereby coordinating vascular normalization, T cell differentiation, and checkpoint blockade. In vivo, the conjugates increased intratumoral CD8+ T cells and splenic memory T cells by over sixfold in B16-OVA tumors and achieved complete regression in a subset of MC38-OVA tumors without systemic toxicity, providing a promising strategy for solid tumor immunotherapy.
Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a chronic inflammatory bowel disorder with limited therapeutic options, particularly those capable of selectively reinforcing intestinal epithelial barrier integrity while preserving immune homeostasis. Here, Rhoifolin (3, 10 mg/kg) dose-dependently alleviates DSS and TNBS-induced colitis in mice. Mechanistically, Rhoifolin selectively potentiates ILC3s effector function without affecting their proliferation, apoptosis, intestinal homing, developmental differentiation, or the distribution of CCR6+, NKp46+, and double-negative ILC3s subsets. This functional enhancement promotes IL-22 production, thereby reinforcing epithelial barrier integrity in colonic epithelial cells and organoids. Integrated transcriptomics and untargeted metabolomics identified nicotinamide salvage as a central metabolic program driving ILC3s functional enhancement. NMNAT1 was identified as a direct molecular target of Rhoifolin. Molecular docking and dynamic simulations pinpointed Leu155 as a critical residue mediating Rhoifolin-NMNAT1 interaction, and mutation of Leu155 antagonized metabolic activation and IL-22 induction. Consistently, Rhoifolin-induced NAD+ elevation enhanced SIRT1 activity, leading to FOXO1 deacetylation and nuclear translocation. Further CUT&Tag-qPCR demonstrated FOXO1 enrichment at Il22 promoter, driving IL-22 transcription in ILC3s. Collectively, our findings identify Rhoifolin as a potent ILC3s effector function enhancer and uncover a previously unrecognized NMNAT1-NAD+-SIRT1-FOXO1 axis linking immunometabolic and epigenetic regulation to intestinal barrier protection, highlighting ILC3s empowerment as a promising therapeutic strategy for UC.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Acute hypoxic exposure combined with exhaustive exercise can impair exercise performance and induce metabolic, inflammatory, oxidative, and tissue stress. Cycloastragenol, a bioactive constituent of Astragalus membranaceus, has shown antioxidant and tissue-protective potential, but its role in acute hypoxic exercise stress remains unclear. This study investigated whether cycloastragenol pretreatment attenuates fatigue- and injury-related responses in mice.A combined exploratory network pharmacology and animal experimental approach was used. Eighty-four male C57BL/6 J mice were randomly assigned to seven groups: blank control, model control (MC), normoxic exercise, Rhodiola rosea positive control (300 mg/kg/day), and low-, medium-, and high-dose cycloastragenol groups (25, 50, and 100 mg/kg/day). Pretreatments were administered by oral gavage once daily for 40 days. The MC, positive-control, and cycloastragenol groups then underwent continuous 24-h simulated hypobaric hypoxia equivalent to 5,000 m, followed by treadmill running to exhaustion. Outcomes included exhaustion time, serum biochemical and inflammatory markers, gastrocnemius ATPase activities, representative histopathology, and selected protein-expression endpoints. Data were analyzed using one-way ANOVA with Dunnett's test, eta squared, and Cohen's d.Network pharmacology identified 116 overlapping targets and suggested HIF-1, PI3K-Akt, FoxO, and IL-17 signaling as hypothesis-generating pathways. Compared with MC, high-dose cycloastragenol prolonged exhaustion time (133.67 ± 7.45 vs. 96.92 ± 9.42 min; d = +4.33; p < 0.001), reduced BUN (16.14 ± 1.21 vs. 23.38 ± 1.61 mmol/L; d = -5.09; p < 0.001), lactate (7.72 ± 1.77 vs. 16.27 ± 2.62 mmol/L; d = -3.82; p < 0.001), MDA (1.08 ± 0.07 vs. 1.20 ± 0.10 nmol/mg; d = -1.41; p < 0.01), IL-6 (14.92 ± 1.00 vs. 28.69 ± 1.41 pg./mL; p < 0.001), and TNF-α (51.31 ± 2.18 vs. 114.93 ± 1.84 ng/mL; p < 0.001), while increasing T-SOD activity and Na + -K + -ATPase activity. Representative HE images and Western blot results suggested qualitative tissue protection and modulation of HIF-1alpha, FoxO1, Nrf2, and HO-1 expression.Cycloastragenol pretreatment was associated with improved tolerance to acute hypoxic exhaustive exercise and attenuation of metabolic, inflammatory, oxidative, and tissue-related responses in mice. Direct hepatic glycogen, muscle glycogen, and blood glucose endpoints were not measured; further mechanistic and translational studies are needed.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Zhang, Jia, Gu, Xi and Zhang.
The immunomodulatory effects of platelet-derived microparticles (PMPs) on host innate immunity remain incompletely understood. In this study, we established a clinically relevant in vitro model using PMPs from stored platelets to investigate their effects on NK cell function. PMPs were isolated from platelets of 3 healthy donors, and co-cultured with PBMCs or primary NK cells from 18 healthy donors. Their effects on NK cell activation, cytotoxic function, and IFN-γ secretion were assessed by flow cytometry. qRT-PCR was performed to detect the mRNA expression of four key NK functional genes (IFNG, GZMB, PRF1 and FOXO1). High-throughput small RNA sequencing coupled with bioinformatic analysis was applied to screen PMP-derived miRNAs, and miR-223-3p was identified as a candidate functional mediator. We further conducted ex vivo validation of this effect using PBMCs from 12 sepsis patients. PMPs accumulating to estimated transfusion-relevant concentrations in stored platelets modulate NK cell activation, IFN-γ production, cytotoxic molecule expression and K562 cell killing in a concentration-dependent manner. Transcriptional detection results suggest that the downregulation of cytotoxic effector proteins induced by PMPs may be predominantly regulated by post-transcriptional pathways, which are possibly mediated by miR-223-3p. Our findings identify a potential pathway by which PMPs accumulating during platelet storage may contribute to transfusion-related immunomodulation, offering a preliminary mechanistic framework. Notably, the results of our ex vivo validation using samples from sepsis patients provide a foundation for the hypothesis that PMP-mediated NK cell modulation may contribute to immune dysregulation in clinical scenarios, such as sepsis, where platelet transfusions are common.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559717 is a review article
Heart failure (HF) is increasingly recognized as a systemic disorder that extends beyond the heart and affects neurovascular tissues, including the retina. However, the mechanisms by which circulating factors from HF trigger retinal neuroinflammation remain unclear.HF was induced in adult mice by transverse aortic constriction (TAC). Retinal structure and function were evaluated using optical coherence tomography (OCT) and electroretinography (ERG). Parabiosis and plasma transfer experiments were performed to assess the role of circulating factors. Endothelial senescence, microglial activation, and inflammatory signaling were analyzed using immunofluorescence, qPCR, and molecular assays. The functional relevance of TGFβ2 and microglia was tested using anti-TGFβ2 antibody administration and microglial depletion with PLX5622 treatment.TAC mice exhibited pronounced retinal thinning, diminished electroretinography (ERG) amplitudes, and reduced vascular density. Exposure of healthy mice to HF plasma reproduced these abnormalities, indicating that circulating mediators drive retinal injuries. TGFβ2 levels were markedly elevated in the plasma of both patients with HF and TAC mice. Mechanistically, TGFβ2 activated the pSMAD2/EP300 pathway in retinal endothelial cells, promoting H3K9 acetylation, P21 induction, and endothelial cell senescence. Senescent endothelial cells release proinflammatory factors that activate retinal microglia, leading to hypertrophic morphology, enhanced synaptic phagocytosis, and upregulation of cytokines such as IL1β, TNFα, and IL6. Neutralization of TGFβ2 or microglial depletion markedly reduced inflammation, preserved the retinal architecture, and restored visual function.Elevated TGFβ2 levels in heart failure drive retinal endothelial epigenetic senescence, which secondarily activates microglia and induces neuroinflammation. Endothelial-specific disruption of TGFβ2 signaling is sufficient to protect the retina independently of primary cardiac recovery. Targeting the TGFβ2-endothelial-microglia axis may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for preventing retinal neurovascular degeneration associated with systemic cardiac disease.© The author(s).
CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ dendritic cells (DCs) are pivotal players in orchestrating anti-tumor immune responses, particularly within tumor tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS). However, their heterogeneity, differentiation trajectories, and clinical relevance in bladder cancer remain incompletely defined. This study integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data (16 bladder cancer patients, 113,905 post-quality-control cells) and spatial transcriptomics to characterize CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets, their differentiation pathways (via Velocyto trajectory analysis), and intercellular crosstalk (via receptor-ligand mapping). A risk model (DTscore) was constructed using marker genes of these cells and validated in the IMvigor210 (atezolizumab-treated bladder cancer) and TCGA-BLCA cohorts. scRNA-seq clustering identified 10 immune and 3 nonimmune cell types, with T cells stratified into 8 subpopulations (including CD4+CXCL13+ T cells and CD8+CXCL13+ T cells) and DCs into 9 subgroups (including LAMP3+ DCs). Receptor-ligand mapping and spatial transcriptomics confirmed functional crosstalk between CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ DCs via key pairs (e.g., CCR7-CCL19, CXCR5-CXCL13, PDCD1-CD274) within TLS. The DTscore was developed using 8 marker genes (TSHZ2, ALOX5AP, GADD45G, TXN, CHN1, CCL19, CXCL13, ICA1) and exhibited robust prognostic and predictive performance: In the IMvigor210 cohort, high DTscore correlated with significantly poorer overall survival (OS) and a 3.27-fold lower immunotherapy response rate (11% vs. 36%, p = 4.23e-07); multivariate Cox regression confirmed DTscore as an independent OS predictor (hazard ratio = 1.97, p < 0.001). DTscore retained prognostic value in TCGA-BLCA (OS: p = 0.003; disease-specific survival: p < 0.001) and effectively predicted atezolizumab response even in the "immune desert" phenotype (p = 0.04). Combining DTscore with tumor mutational burden/tumor neoantigen burden yielded an AUC of 0.8122 for response prediction. Additionally, high DTscore was associated with higher OS hazard ratios in patients with wild-type TTN, RB1, EP300, or FGFR3 (all p < 0.01), while FGFR3 mutations correlated with lower immune checkpoint/CXCL13 expression. This study delineates the heterogeneity and interactions of CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets in bladder cancer TLS and validates DTscore as a robust tool for predicting OS and immunotherapy response, offering a potential guide for personalized bladder cancer treatment.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42553762 is a review article
Stem cell aging critically limits the efficacy of regenerative biomaterials, yet how mechanical cues within the microenvironment modulate this process remains insufficiently understood. Here, we reveal that the nanoscale spacing of adhesive ligands imposes stiffness-dependent effects on mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) senescence. Wider spacing (distance 150 nm) accelerates aging on stiff hydrogels (50 kPa) but mitigates it on soft hydrogels (5 kPa), relative to dense spacing (distance 30 nm). Using a molecular clutch-based theoretical model, we demonstrate that ligand spacing and matrix stiffness cooperatively regulate cell behaviors through focal adhesion assembly. Enhanced focal adhesion formation amplifies stress fiber-generated traction forces and nuclear envelope tension, leading to increased chromatin accessibility and transcriptional activation of FOXO1, a central regulator of cellular senescence. These mechanistic insights are further validated in vivo. Collectively, these findings delineate a mechanotransduction mechanism through which nanoscale adhesive architecture and matrix stiffness cooperatively govern stem cell aging.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Neuraminidase 1 (Neu1) plays a crucial role in the removal of sialic acid from glycoproteins and glycolipids, significantly influencing hepatic glycolipid metabolism. However, its precise contributions to liver gluconeogenesis and bile acid metabolism are not well defined. Although the sialylation of the hepatic glucagon receptor (GCGR) has been linked to the regulation of hepatic glucose homeostasis, the impact of Neu1 on hepatic gluconeogenesis through the desialylation of GCGR remains to be elucidated.To explore the physiological function of Neu1 in liver glycolipid metabolism, we constructed liver-specific Neu1 knockout mice. Glucagon induced HepG2 cells were used to assess the role of Neu1 in gluconeogenesis.Phenotypic analysis indicated that these knockout mice exhibited a late-onset glycolipid metabolism disorder. Mechanistically, Neu1 deficiency caused the upregulation of key gluconeogenic genes, with cAMP-PKA signaling and the sialylation mediated activation of GCGR influencing the Akt-FoxO1 pathway, contributing to the disruption of hepatic glucose metabolism in 21-month-old Neu1 deficient mice. Transcriptomic analysis revealed an increase in lipogenesis and bile acid synthesis pathways in the livers of aged Neu1 knockout mice. Notably, there were significant alterations in steroid hormone biosynthesis, with elevated levels of lithocholic acid and allolithocholic acid detected in the Neu1 deficient mice. Additionally, the activation of inflammatory responses and reduced lipolysis seemed to correlate with the observed abnormalities in glycolipid metabolism.These results indicate that Neu1 is essential for GCGR-dependent gluconeogenesis, suggesting that Neu1 could be a potential therapeutic target for addressing hepatic glycolipid metabolism disorders associated with aging.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Paqr7 and paqr8 are genes encoding membrane progestin receptor αand β (mPRα and mPRβ, respectively), which are currently classified as members of the progestin and adipoQ receptor (PAQR) family. For mPRα, the first identified mPR gene, there are two paralogs in zebrafish, paqr7a and paqr7b. In order to elucidate the physiological functions of the mPR subtypes, we created gene knockout (KO) fish by editing seven paqr genes in zebrafish and analyzing their phenotypes. The null-mutant strains of paqr7a, paqr7b, and paqr8 presented no significant abnormalities in reproductive functions. Thus, we generated a triple-gene knockout (TKO) strain of these highly related genes. The TKO strain had reduced fecundity and a high percentage of abnormal embryos. The embryos exhibited various types of abnormal morphology. In histological sections, a reduction in the number of nucleoli in germinal vesicles was observed. Additionally, the distribution of the nucleolus was abnormal. The amount of 18S and 28S ribosomal RNAs in the oocytes significantly increased. These analyses indicate that paqr7a, paqr7b, and paqr8 are responsible for the production of the nucleolus, which is necessary for supplying the proper number of ribosomal RNAs into the cytoplasm of oocytes. Abnormal embryo development resulted from low-quality eggs in TKO zebrafish, suggesting that paqr7a, paqr7b, and paqr8 mutations affect oogenesis. These results indicate that Paqr7a, Paqr7b, and Paqr8 are required for the preparation of the nucleolus during oogenesis. Insufficient formation of the nucleolus resulted in a higher quantity of ribosomal RNA in the cytoplasm, causing abnormal embryo development.
After fertilization, maternally deposited mRNAs are cleared, and de novo transcription is initiated through zygotic genome activation (ZGA), a core event of the maternal-to-zygotic transition in mice. 2-cell-like cells (2CLCs), a rare MERVL-positive subpopulation of mouse embryonic stem cells, partially recapitulate transcriptional features of 2-cell embryos. Although canonical MERVL-high 2CLCs depend on DUX, Dux knockout embryos can develop to term, suggesting that 2CLC models do not fully capture DUX-independent pathways associated with preimplantation transcriptional programs. Here, we show that disruption of C-terminal binding protein 1/2 (Ctbp1/2) activates both DUX-dependent minor ZGA-associated genes and DUX-independent major ZGA- and post-ZGA-associated programs. Pramel7 is derepressed independently of DUX and contributes to subsets of both programs. PRAMEL7 overexpression partially rescues transcriptional defects caused by Dux deletion and is associated with UHRF1 downregulation and DNA demethylation-linked activation of post-ZGA-associated genes. These findings identify CtBP1/2 as repressors of multiple early embryonic transcriptional programs in mouse embryonic stem cells.© 2026. The Author(s).
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains a leading cause of global cancer mortality. Increasing evidence implicates aberrant cholesterol metabolic reprogramming as a key facilitator of tumour malignancy; however, the mechanistic connections between lipoprotein metabolism and NSCLC pathogenesis remain elusive. Here, we investigate the unrecognised oncogenic role of cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP), a central lipid exchange mediator.Serum lipid profiles from 151 NSCLC patients were analysed, and CETP mRNA expression level was evaluated in normal lung (n = 47) and NSCLC tissue (n = 54) and paired NSCLC tissue microarrays (n = 113). Integrated ChIP-seq/RNA-seq analyses, ChIP-qPCR, dual-luciferase reporter and ubiquitination assays were performed to investigate CTBP1-mediated CETP transcription. Functional studies in NSCLC cells, xenograft models and eight patient-derived organoids evaluated the role of the CTBP1-CETP axis in lipid remodelling, ferroptosis and the therapeutic efficacy of obicetrapib alone or combined with RSL3.CETP was significantly up-regulated in NSCLC tissues and predicted poor overall survival in both LUAD (HR = 1.46, 95% CI 1.13-1.87, p = .0033) and LUSC (HR = 1.51, 95% CI 1.12-2.01, p = .0067). CTBP1 activated CETP transcription, and CTBP1 ubiquitination further enhanced its transcriptional activity. The CTBP1-CETP axis promoted ferroptosis resistance by lipid accumulation. Obicetrapib phenocopied CETP depletion and synergised with RSL3 to inhibit tumour growth in NSCLC cells, xenografts and patient-derived organoids.Our study delineates a novel CTBP1-CETP-lipid droplet-MAPK signalling cascade that couples metabolic rewiring with ferroptosis evasion. These insights establish the CTBP1-CETP axis as a critical cell fate determinant, positioning pharmacological CETP inhibition (e.g., obicetrapib) as a translatable therapeutic vulnerability in lipid-dependent, ferroptosis-resistant NSCLC.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical and Translational Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Shanghai Institute of Clinical Bioinformatics.
Background/Objectives: Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) has become increasingly common, a trend driven by obesity, excess nutritional intake, and dysfunctional adipose tissue. While continuous dietary stress triggers adipose-tissue-derived lipotoxicity and disrupts hepatic metabolic homeostasis and provokes inflammation, the transcriptional scaffolds that mitigate this lipotoxicity remain incompletely understood. We investigated the role of zinc finger protein 90 (ZFP90) in defending against diet-induced metabolic stress and MASLD pathogenesis. Methods: Wild-type and ZFP90-knockout mice were subjected to a high-fat diet (HFD) to model nutrient-overload-induced MASLD. Hepatic phenotypes were characterized using metabolic profiling and RNA sequencing. Mechanistic dynamics were evaluated through protein interaction assays, and clinical relevance was validated using human MASLD liver biopsies. Results: ZFP90 deficiency significantly accelerated HFD-induced steatosis, systemic insulin resistance, and inflammatory infiltration. Crucially, ZFP90 depletion drove severe white adipose tissue (WAT) dysfunction, characterized by impaired lipogenic capacity, exacerbated lipolysis, and diminished local insulin signaling. This was accompanied by a pro-inflammatory secretory shift in WAT, evident from decreased Adipoq and increased Cd68/Ccl3 expression. In the liver, transcriptomic analysis revealed a profound induction of pathways related to fatty acid uptake and cytokine signaling. Mechanistically, ZFP90 forms a repressive complex with TRIM28, acting as a crucial molecular brake on NF-kB signaling. Loss of ZFP90 unleashes p65-mediated hyper-inflammation. Clinically, hepatic ZFP90 expression is significantly upregulated in patients with MASLD. Conclusions: ZFP90 is a novel regulator of immunometabolic homeostasis under dietary stress. By forming of complex with Trim28 to inhibit the nuclear translocation of NF-κB, ZFP90 suppresses pro-inflammatory responses and protects the liver from obesity-associated systemic lipotoxicity. These findings provide critical insights into the adipo-hepatic axis and highlight ZFP90 as a promising therapeutic target to mitigate the progression to metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH).
CtBP1-S/BARS (C-terminal binding protein 1-S/Brefeldin A ADP-Ribosylation Substrate) is a moonlighting protein with key roles in membrane trafficking and gene regulation. We show that CtBP1-S/BARS couples enzymatic lipid remodeling [lysophosphatidic acid (LPA)-to-phosphatidic acid (PA) conversion] with membrane deformation to drive fission and that this activity is directly controlled by metabolic ligands. CtBP1-S/BARS exists as a monomer or dimer. The monomeric, acyl-CoA-bound form drives membrane fission by coupling acyltransferase-dependent LPA-to-PA conversion with amphipathic helix insertion into PA-enriched membranes. Under metabolic stress, reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) binding triggers dimerization and structural rearrangements that disable fission, enabling the binding of transcription factors regulating apoptosis and energy metabolism. This NADH/acyl-CoA competition likely coordinates trafficking shutdown with gene expression programs through a single conformational change. In intact cells, increased NADH promotes nuclear accumulation of dimeric/tetrameric CtBP1-S/BARS, whereas elevated acyl-CoA favors the cytosolic, membrane-associated monomer, indicating that cofactor availability determines protein function under physiological and stress conditions. This work reveals the structural basis for integrating membrane transport with transcriptional control, demonstrating how evolution embeds distinct cellular functions into a unified molecular pathway.
Early diagnosis of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is hindered by a lack of reliable biomarkers. This study sought to identify and evaluate diagnostic plasma protein biomarkers for SLE. We analyzed plasma protein profiles, polygenic risk scores (PRS), and clinical data from 544 SLE cases and 48,036 controls in the UK Biobank. Using LASSO regression, we identified 35 high-confidence SLE-associated proteins and derived a protein risk score (ProtRS). The ProtRS model achieved exceptional diagnostic performance (AUC = 0.91), significantly outperforming models based on PRS or clinical factors alone. Notably, a cost-optimized 5-protein panel (TRIM21, SOD2, KLK3, IL15, ADIPOQ) retained high accuracy (AUC = 0.82) while reducing costs by ~87%. ProtRS also demonstrated the highest population attributable fraction (96.34%), underscoring its dominant contribution to SLE burden. This study establishes a protein-driven framework for early SLE detection, offering tiered diagnostic solutions to balance accuracy and cost. The findings underscore the translational potential of protein biomarkers in bridging theoretical research and clinical practice.Copyright: © 2026 Lv et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42484804 is a review article
Endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs) like bisphenol A (BPA) and benzophenone-3 (BP-3) are omnipresent and previously linked to various metabolic disorders. As EDC exposure already begins during prenatal development, we investigated the effects of BPA and BP-3 exposure during gestation and lactation using a murine model on adipogenesis and metabolic pathways in white adipose tissue (WAT) in the offspring. We monitored postnatal body mass and analyzed the morphology and gene expression of WAT in adult male and female offspring. BPA- and BPA+BP-3-exposed males showed an increase in body mass in early adulthood, whereas BP-3-exposed females presented a decreased growth rate later in life. We identified altered adipocyte area and distribution, suggesting hyperplasia in the WAT of BPA and BPA+BP-3-exposed males. Gene expression analysis showed Pparg upregulation in BPA+BP-3-exposed males and Fabp4 and Adipoq downregulation in BP-3-exposed females. Sex-specific associations between gene expression, adipocyte area, and body mass in controls were disrupted by EDC exposure. Our findings suggest increased postnatal body mass and Pparg-mediated WAT hyperplasia in BPA+BP-3-exposed male mice. Fabp4 and Adipoq downregulation may be responsible for counteracting the BP-3-induced metabolic dysregulation in females. This calls for consideration of sex-specific differences of endocrine disruption in the future development of preventive and therapeutic targets for metabolic disorders.© 2026 The Authors. Co-published by Research Center for Eco-Environmental Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, and American Chemical Society.
Accumulating evidence indicates that tripartite motif-containing protein 32 (TRIM32) has important functions in brain physiology and disease. This study investigated the role of TRIM32 in the development of epilepsy and its impact on synaptic remodeling. A rat model of epilepsy was established using pilocarpine with lithium chloride pretreatment and TRIM32 expression was examined by Western blotting and immunohistochemistry. The interaction between TRIM32 and BDNF was assessed by co-immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence colocalization. TRIM32 knockdown in epileptic rats was achieved by shRNA transfection. Cognitive and anxiety-like behaviors were evaluated using the Y-maze and open-field tests; Western blotting was used to quantify the synaptic proteins PSD-95 and SYN and to assess activity of the BDNF/TrkB/CREB signaling pathway. TRIM32 expression was significantly reduced in epileptic rats. Moreover, TRIM32 knockdown aggravated epilepsy-associated cognitive deficits, impaired open-field performance, and exacerbated synaptic loss. Mechanistically, TRIM32 deficiency intensified these abnormalities through dysregulation of the BDNF/TrkB/CREB pathway. These data suggest that TRIM32 regulates synaptic protein expression in epilepsy and that its deficiency worsens anxiety-like behavior, cognitive impairment, and synaptic loss by perturbing BDNF/TrkB/CREB signaling, thereby providing insights that may inform future therapeutic strategies targeting this signaling pathway.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Association of Neuropathologists, Inc. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Patients with neuroendocrine tumours may receive higher total amount of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-(Tyr3)-octreotate and achieve better tumor control if the risk of kidney toxicity could be predicted individually for each patient. One strategy for such a prediction includes the evaluation of early responding biomarkers for kidney damage during treatment to decide the number of treatment cycles. The aims of this study were to (1) evaluate if urinary RBP4, NGAL, creatinine and cystatin C levels may serve as early responding biomarkers for kidney damage, (2) assess the expression of NGAL, KIM-1, CDKN1A, S100A6 and ADIPOQ in kidney tissue to validate their use as histological indicators of toxicity, and to (3) examine the long-term effects of the proposed radioprotector α1-microglobulin (A1M) in mice exposed to [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-(Tyr3)-octreotate. Mice were injected with 90 or 150 MBq [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-(Tyr3)-octreotate with or without A1M. Urine was collected at several time-points, and the animals were sacrificed after 9 months. Urinary RBP4 increased from day 35 after injection of 150 MBq [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-(Tyr3)-octreotate, creatinine decreased from day 131 and cystatin C increased from day 223. KIM-1, CDKN1A and S100A6 showed a dose dependent kidney expression. Morphological signs of kidney injury were observed in mice injected with 150 MBq [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-(Tyr3)-octreotate. No clear kidney protective effect was detected when A1M was co-administered with [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-(Tyr3)-octreotate.© 2026. The Author(s).
After myocardial infarction (MI), the heart undergoes a reparative process that includes an initial acute inflammatory phase followed by a subsequent reparative phase. The transition between these phases is crucial for cardiac recovery, but the key factors remain unclear. Meteorin-like (Metrnl) promotes anti-inflammatory/reparative macrophage polarization in the myocardium, yet its role in the acute phase post-MI is unknown. We observed that macrophages infiltrating the ischemic myocardium produced elevated levels of Metrnl in both the heart and circulation 4 days post-MI. The absence of Metrnl in Metrnl⁻/⁻ mice altered myocardial healing and remodeling, with an increased presence of macrophages with a more pro-inflammatory phenotype. Conversely, cardiac Metrnl overexpression restored myocardial repair and promoted a shift toward a more anti-inflammatory/reparative macrophage phenotype. Mechanistically, Metrnl regulated macrophage-dependent production of Oncostatin M (Osm), a key cytokine in the early inflammatory phase post-MI that induces cardiomyocyte production of Reg3β. Reg3β, in turn, limits pro-inflammatory macrophage activation and polarization while modulating their trafficking, ultimately influencing the duration and intensity of the pro-inflammatory phase post-MI. Thus, Metrnl plays a crucial role in cardiac repair by modulating the acute phase following myocardial infarction through its regulation of macrophage populations.© 2026. The Author(s).
Age-related sarcopenia is characterized by a progressive decline in skeletal muscle mass and function, with satellite cell dysfunction representing a central pathogenic mechanism. Diosgenin, a steroidal saponin derived from plants of the Dioscorea genus, has demonstrated potential anti-aging properties; however, its role in sarcopenia remains unclear. In this study, naturally aged C57BL/6J mice and a D-galactose (D-gal)-induced senescent C2C12 cell model were employed to systematically investigate the effects of diosgenin on muscle function, satellite cell dynamics, and the sirtuin 1 (SIRT1)/peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1 alpha (PGC-1α) signaling pathway. Diosgenin treatment significantly improved forelimb grip strength and exercise endurance, increased the gastrocnemius muscle index, and enlarged muscle fiber cross-sectional area in aged mice. Mechanistically, diosgenin upregulated the expression of myokines meteorin-like protein (METRNL) and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) at both mRNA and protein levels, increased the number of proliferative satellite cells positive for paired box 7 (Pax7) and Ki67, and enhanced the expression of myogenic markers, including myogenic factor 5 (Myf5), Pax7, and myosin heavy chain II (MyHC II). These effects were mediated by direct activation of SIRT1, leading to deacetylation of PGC-1α. Notably, pharmacological inhibition of SIRT1 with EX527 markedly abrogated the diosgenin-induced effects. Molecular docking and cellular thermal shift assays further confirmed the direct interaction between diosgenin and SIRT1. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that diosgenin alleviates age-related sarcopenia by activating the SIRT1/PGC-1α signaling pathway to promote satellite cell proliferation and myogenic differentiation, highlighting its potential as a promising therapeutic candidate for sarcopenia.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Chiari malformation type 1 (CM1) is a neurological disorder characterized by cerebellar tonsil herniation. While nuclear DNA has been associated with craniovertebral development, the role of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) remains unclear. This study investigated nuclear DNA variants (PAX1, EPAS1, DKK1, GDF6) and mtDNA D-loop mutations in CM1 patients from East Coast Malaysia.Sixty-eight participants were enrolled, comprising 38 CM1 patients and 30 controls. Genomic DNA from peripheral blood was analyzed by polymerase chain reaction amplification and Sanger sequencing. Associations between genetic variants and clinicopathological parameters (age, sex, tonsillar herniation, syringomyelia) were assessed using chi-square or Fisher's exact test.Four nuclear DNA variants were identified, comprising a synonymous PAX1 mutation (c.555G>A, p.K185K) and intronic changes in EPAS1 (c.1035-7C>G), DKK1 (c.548-3T>C), and GDF6 (c.406+112T>C), none of which exhibited significant associations with clinicopathological characteristics. In contrast, mtDNA analysis revealed that 50% of CM1 patients (n = 30) harbored D-loop mutations, predominantly T>C or G>A transitions, including 18 novel variants. Mutation frequency was significantly higher in patients with more severe tonsillar herniation (>10 mm) (OR = 28.570; 95% CI: 3.080-250.000; P < .001) and in those with syringomyelia (OR = 7.792; 95% CI: 1.782-34.060; P = .007), while no significant associations were observed with age or sex.Nuclear DNA variants may function as genetic modifiers without significant clinical impact. Conversely, mtDNA D-loop mutations were prevalent and correlated with disease severity, suggesting a contributory role in CM1 pathogenesis and warranting further investigation of mitochondrial genetic factors. Cite this article as: Rosdi SNM, Mohamed Yusoff AA. Nuclear and mitochondrial DNA variants in Chiari malformation type 1: insights from an east coast Malaysian cohort. Eurasian J Med. 2026, 58(4), 1209, doi: 10.5152/eurasianjmed.2026.251209.
Intervertebral disc degeneration (IDD) is a primary cause of low back pain, characterized by cell loss, extracellular matrix (ECM) degradation, and a harsh microenvironment with excessive oxidative stress, creating an urgent need for regenerative therapies. This study aimed to develop and evaluate a multifunctional injectable hydrogel (Gel@MnO2/GDF6) co-delivering growth differentiation factor 6 (GDF6) for anabolic stimulation and manganese dioxide (MnO2) nanozymes for reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenging to treat IDD. The MnO2 nanorods and the chitosan-arginine/oxidized dextran-based hydrogel were synthesized and characterized, demonstrating sustained GDF6 release and pH-responsive degradation. In vitro, Gel@MnO2/GDF6 protected nucleus pulposus (NP) cells from H2O2-induced oxidative stress by reducing ROS, upregulating antioxidant enzymes, promoting anabolic ECM metabolism (increasing Aggrecan and Collagen II while decreasing ADAMTS-4 and MMP-13), reducing key inflammatory cytokine expression (TNF-α and IL-6), and activating the Smad pathway. In vivo, intra-discal injection of Gel@MnO2/GDF6 into a rat IDD model significantly attenuated disc degeneration over 12 weeks, as evidenced by improved histological scores, preserved disc height and hydration on radiological and MRI assessments, restoration of ECM protein homeostasis, reduced cellular apoptosis, mitigated inflammatory marker expression, and activated Smad pathway, with these therapeutic effects being superior to those achieved with hydrogels containing only MnO2 or GDF6. Importantly, all tested hydrogel formulations, including Gel@MnO2/GDF6, demonstrated good systemic biocompatibility. These findings collectively demonstrate that the multifunctional Gel@MnO2/GDF6 hydrogel effectively promotes intervertebral disc regeneration by concurrently mitigating oxidative stress and fostering an anabolic, anti-inflammatory microenvironment, validating its potential as a promising therapeutic method for IDD.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Seminal vesicle mixed epithelial-stromal tumor (MEST) is an exceptionally rare neoplasm. We report a 64-year-old man who developed a 7.5-cm pelvic recurrence seven years after robot-assisted radical prostatectomy and bilateral seminal vesiculectomy for a right-sided MEST. He successfully underwent robot-assisted salvage re-excision. The recurrent mass was well-circumscribed without gross invasion into adjacent organs. Pathology confirmed a borderline recurrent MEST with negative margins. This case emphasizes the potential for delayed local recurrence in seminal vesicle MEST, mandating long-term surveillance, and illustrates the feasibility of robotic salvage surgery in a previously operated pelvis.© 2026 The Authors.
While dyslipidemia is a well-established systemic risk factor in glomerular diseases, the clinical and histopathological relevance of compartmental intrarenal lipid deposition in primary glomerulonephritis (GN) remains insufficiently elucidated. Recent evidence suggests that lipid accumulation may directly contribute to glomerular and tubulointerstitial injury via pro-inflammatory and oxidative mechanisms.In this single-center, cross-sectional analysis, we examined 31 adult patients with biopsy-proven primary GN-IgA nephropathy (IgAN), membranous nephropathy (MN), and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis/minimal change disease (FSGS/MCD)-diagnoses. Renal tissue specimens were subjected to Oil Red O staining to quantify lipid accumulation within tubular, interstitial, and vascular compartments. Clinical parameters and laboratory indices were assessed. Histopathologic correlations were performed using Oxford MEST-C classification (for IgAN) and Interstitial Fibrosis and Tubular Atrophy (IFTA) scoring.Intrarenal lipid deposition was prevalent across compartments: tubular (84%), interstitial (74%), and vascular (61%). In IgAN patients, both the extent and morphology of tubular steatosis were strongly correlated with composite MEST-C scores (P < .01). In MN, tubular lipid burden was significantly associated with systolic blood pressure and proteinuria levels (P < .01). Notably, interstitial and vascular lipid accumulation demonstrated positive associations independent of systemic lipid levels. In FSGS/MCD cases, tubular steatosis correlated with both low density lipoprotein (LDL) and interstitial lipid scores (P < .01), whereas vascular lipid presence was linked to the degree of proteinuria (P < .05).Intrarenal lipid deposition is a prevalent histological finding in primary GN and correlates with both structural injury and clinical disease burden. These findings support the hypothesis that local lipid accumulation may represent a pathophysiologically relevant biomarker of disease activity.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Societa Italiana Nefrologia/Italian Society of Nephrology; Society ownership.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) has a poor prognosis, and effective metabolic biomarkers are still few. Glutamine metabolism is one of the central features of tumor metabolic reprogramming, but the cellular heterogeneity and clinical significance of glutamine metabolism in the LUAD tumor microenvironment (TME) remain unknown. The goal of this paper was to define glutamine metabolism on a single-cell basis and determine major regulators that have predictive value.A single-cell RNA sequencing dataset (GSE149655) was combined with The Cancer Genome Atlas Lung Adenocarcinoma (TCGA-LUAD) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets in order to evaluate the metabolic activity and intercellular communication. The prognostic model was constructed on weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), machine learning-based approaches, and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO)-Cox regression to examine the characteristics of the immune system and sensitivity to drugs. Carried out CRISPR/Cas9 knockout experiments to prove the function of ANLN.Glutamine metabolism activity and increased cell-cell communication were observed in mast cells. A gene signature of 4 genes (ANLN, CIP2A, MEST, WDR76) divided the patients into high-risk and low-risk groups; the survival of these two groups, immunosuppressant features of TME, and susceptibility to dasatinib were different. ANLN was also determined to be an essential prognostic driver, and downregulating it inhibited glutamine metabolism and the invasion properties of LUAD cells.Mast cells are metabolic centers of LUAD, whereas ANLN is a mediator of the association between glutamine metabolism and the development of tumors, which offers possible treatment options to achieve precise prognostication and treatment goals.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
Pediatric IgA nephropathy (IgAN) is often considered to have a favorable early course. However, its progression is variable, and the prognostic value of histopathological classifications, such as MEST-C, remains incompletely defined in children. This study aimed to characterize clinicopathological features and the early disease course in pediatric IgAN and to descriptively examine histopathological findings and clinical outcomes.This retrospective, single-center study included children with biopsy-confirmed IgAN diagnosed between 2016 and 2025. Clinical, laboratory, and histopathological data were collected, and biopsies were assessed using the Oxford MEST-C classification. Follow-up data, including estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), were analyzed descriptively, with follow-up extending from diagnosis to early 2026.Fourteen patients were included, showing heterogeneous clinical presentations. Mesangial hypercellularity was observed in all cases (100%), with frequent endocapillary hypercellularity (78.6%) and segmental sclerosis (57.1%), consistent with a predominance of active lesions. Over a median follow-up of approximately five years, renal function remained stable in 57.1% of patients, declined in 21.4%, and improved in 14.3%, indicating variability in renal function during follow-up and potential reversibility in a subset of patients. One patient (7.1%) developed severe acute kidney injury requiring temporary dialysis, followed by full recovery. Given the descriptive design and limited sample size, no conclusions regarding associations between histopathological findings and renal outcomes can be drawn.Within this small cohort, pediatric IgAN showed variable renal function courses ranging from stability to decline or partial recovery. These findings should be considered descriptive and hypothesis-generating, supporting longitudinal monitoring in larger pediatric cohorts.
Free fatty acid receptor (FFAR)-mediated signaling plays a critical role in cancer pathogenesis. Within the tumor microenvironment (TME), stromal cells support cancer cell functions under hypoxic conditions, thereby promoting malignant progression. This study investigated whether FFAR1 contributes to stromal cell-induced malignancy in cancer cells under hypoxic conditions (1% O2), using highly invasive A549-M8 cells derived from lung cancer A549 cells. A549-M8 cells exhibit approximately eightfold higher invasiveness than A549 cells. Under 1% O2, FFAR1 expression was upregulated in A549-M8 cells but downregulated in A549 cells. A549-M8 cell invasion was markedly promoted by culturing at 1% O2, whereas A549 cell invasion decreased. TUG-770 (FFAR1 agonist) stimulated A549-M8 cell invasion, whereas GW1100 (FFAR1 antagonist) suppressed it. In contrast, A549-M8 cell invasion was inhibited by TUG-891 (FFAR4 agonist). Co-culture with mouse-derived endothelial F2 cells, which lack Ffar1 expression, further stimulated A549-M8 cell movement and motility relative to A549 cells. Under hypoxic co-culture conditions, A549-M8 cells exhibited significantly increased invasion, which was associated with elevated FFAR1 expression. These results suggest that FFAR1-mediated signaling is a key driver of tumor progression in highly invasive lung cancer cells under hypoxic conditions, with stromal cell interactions promoting FFAR1 induction and enhancing malignancy, whereas FFAR4 activation exerts a suppressive effect on invasive activity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Tannic acid (TA) is a hydrolysable plant secondary metabolite known to influence multiple physiological processes in animals; however, its role in regulating brown adipose tissue (BAT) thermogenesis remains poorly understood. Notably, the overwinter food caches of Brandt's voles predominantly consist of Artemisia species, which are rich in TA. This study aimed to determine whether TA contributes to cold tolerance in Brandt's voles by activating BAT thermogenesis. Adult male voles were administered TA, after which the masses of BAT and inguinal white adipose tissue (iWAT) were measured, and temperature changes in BAT, the body surface, and the rectum were recorded following exposure to - 20 °C. In addition, transcriptomic analyses of BAT were performed, and the expression and protein levels of key thermogenic markers were assessed.The results showed that TA reduced iWAT mass while exerting minimal effects on BAT mass. TA-treated voles exhibited significantly elevated temperatures in BAT, the body surface, and the rectum after cold exposure. Histological analyses revealed that TA treatment reduced adipocyte area in iWAT while increasing the number of nuclei in brown adipocytes in BAT. In BAT, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in voles receiving a low TA dose were significantly enriched in pathways related to fat digestion and absorption and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) signaling. In contrast, DEGs in voles administered a high TA dose were predominantly associated with brown adipocyte differentiation and the upregulation of cold-induced thermogenesis. Moreover, TA administration increased the expression of FFAR4 and UCP1, as well as the protein levels of PGC-1α, PPARγ, and UCP1 following cold exposure.Collectively, these findings demonstrate that TA enhances cold tolerance in Brandt's voles by promoting thermogenic gene expression and stimulating brown adipocyte differentiation in BAT, providing novel insights into the role of plant secondary metabolites in mammalian cold adaptation and herbivore-plant interactions.© 2026. The Author(s).
The Motivation: Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are important regulators of gene expression and are increasingly implicated in cancer. However, the extent to which aberrant DNA methylation is associated with lncRNA dysregulation in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) remains underexplored.By integrating RNA-seq and Illumina 450K methylation data from 473 LUAD and 32 normal lung samples in TCGA, we identified 2,668 differentially expressed lncRNAs and 20,843 differentially methylated CpG sites. Mapping CpGs to lncRNA promoters (-1.5 kb from the annotated TSS) and Spearman correlation analysis highlighted seven lncRNAs with inverse promoter methylation-expression patterns; FAM83A-AS2 and AC012213.1 showed the most consistent associations and were linked to poorer overall survival in Kaplan-Meier and Cox models (adjusted for age, sex, and tumor stage). A two-lncRNA prognostic score derived using LASSO Cox regression showed moderate time-dependent discrimination at 590 days (AUC = 0.72) within the TCGA cohort. An exploratory lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA network suggested miRNA-mediated regulation of LUAD genes, with enrichment analyses linking targets to chromatin modification and epigenetic regulation. These findings nominate FAM83A-AS2 and AC012213.1 as candidate epigenetically associated prognostic lncRNAs in LUAD, warranting validation in independent cohorts and functional studies.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Hexi cattle are a local cattle population endemic to the Hexi Corridor in Gansu Province, China, and exhibit strong adaptability to the region's arid continental environment. However, comprehensive genomic investigations of this population are still lacking. In the present study, we integrated population genomic analyses with a genome-wide association study (GWAS) to dissect the genetic architecture of Hexi cattle. Whole-genome resequencing data were generated for 264 Hexi cattle, and public genomic datasets from six representative cattle breeds were obtained from the NCBI database for comparative analysis. Multiple analytical approaches-including principal component analysis (PCA), linkage disequilibrium (LD) decay analysis, neighbor-joining (NJ) phylogenetic tree construction, and ADMIXTURE analysis-were adopted to evaluate population structure and evolutionary relationships. A mixed linear model was then used to identify significant SNPs associated with five major body conformation traits in six-month-old cattle: body weight (BW), withers height (WH), hip height (HH), heart girth (HG), and abdominal girth (AG). Our results confirm the admixed nature of Hexi cattle, whose genome is derived primarily from Simmental cattle and secondarily from Mongolian cattle. A total of 69 trait-associated significant SNPs were identified and functionally annotated. Specifically, TBC1D31, DERL1 and MCPH1 were linked to BW; FSCN3 and PLBD1 to WH; MCPH1 to HH; NPAS3, TBC1D31, DERL1 and MCPH1 to HG; and SOX5, NTAQ1, FAM83A, TBC1D31, DERL1, CDH11, CPLX4 and ADAM18 to AG. This study deepens our understanding of the genetic basis of growth traits in Hexi cattle and offers valuable molecular resources for future selective breeding, genetic improvement, and long-term conservation of this indigenous cattle population.
Genome-wide CRISPR screens have systematically identified genes required for cancer cell survival, yet these studies are typically performed under standardized conditions that do not fully recapitulate the physiological stresses encountered within the tumor microenvironment. In a recent issue of Nature Genetics, Cheruiyot and colleagues perform genome-wide loss-of-function screens under inflammatory conditions induced by interferon-β (IFN-β), interferon-γ (IFN-γ), and tumor necrosis factor (TNF), revealing that distinct cytokines impose different genetic requirements for tumor cell survival. The study shows that inflammatory signaling reshapes genetic dependency landscape in a cytokine-specific manner. Mechanistic analyses identify the glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) transamidase complex and FITM2 as representative examples of genes that become selectively required under inflammatory stress by maintaining membrane protein maturation, endoplasmic reticulum homeostasis, and resistance to oxidative stress. These findings broaden our understanding of how inflammatory cytokines influence tumor cell biology beyond transcriptional regulation and immune recognition. More broadly, the study highlights the value of incorporating physiologically relevant conditions into functional genetic screens, suggesting that conventional dependency maps capture only part of the genetic requirements for tumor survival. Applying similar approaches to other microenvironmental stresses-including hypoxia, metabolic competition, extracellular matrix remodeling, and stromal signaling-may uncover additional therapeutic opportunities for cancer immunotherapy.
This study aims to present novel compound heterozygous PROC gene variants in a fetus. These variants cause protein C deficiency-associated thrombophilia and are accompanied by prenatal ocular anomalies in the affected fetus.A fetus presenting with prenatal ocular ultrasound anomalies was enrolled for genetic prenatal diagnosis. Trio whole-exome sequencing (WES) was performed on the fetus and parental samples to explore the genetic etiology. Sanger sequencing was subsequently applied to verify the identified genetic variants.WES result revealed two likely pathogenic compound heterozygous variants NM_000312.4: c.[378G>A(p.W126*)]; [658C>T(p.R220W)] in PROC gene in the fetus, which were inherited from the parents, respectively. Notably, a likely pathogenic homozygous variant of NM_176824.3:c.728G>A(p.C243Y) in BBS7 gene, and a heterozygous variant of NM_012193.4:c.112G>A(p.G38R) in FZD4 gene, as well as a pathogenic heterozygous variant of NM_000435.3:c.1630C>T(p.R544C) in NOTCH3 gene were observed in the mother, which may explain her clinical abnormalities. The maternal BBS7 variant was transmitted to the fetus, whereas the FZD4 and NOTCH3 variants were not detected in the proband. The father exhibited a clinical phenotype of cleft lip and palate, but no corresponding pathogenic genetic variants were identified.This study first reports two rare compound heterozygous PROC variants in a Chinese fetus, which expands the mutational spectrum of protein C deficiency-related thrombophilia in the Chinese population. Furthermore, our findings highlight the robust clinical application value of trio-WES in the etiological diagnosis of complex prenatal genetic disorders.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Genetics & Genomic Medicine published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a frequent complication of interstitial lung diseases (ILD) that worsens morbidity and mortality. Cigarette smoking has a detrimental effect on transplant-free survival of patients with ILD, including patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). However, smoking-related molecular alterations in patients with ILD-PH are not well understood. We performed analysis of 226 patients with ILD with and without PH (59.3% smokers, 40.3% with IPF) from the University of California, Davis cohort. Supporting previous findings, smokers with ILD had significantly shorter transplant-free survival than ILD non-smokers. Using a multivariable Cox regression model, we identified cigarette smoking as a significant independent predictor of mortality of patients with ILD. Smokers with IPF-PH have significantly lower diffusing capacity of the lungs for carbon monoxide (DLCO) compared to non-smokers. Transcriptomic analysis of whole blood of IPF-PH patients identified 616 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in smokers compared to non-smokers with most deregulated fat cell differentiation and protein ubiquitination pathways. Three DEGs belonging to these pathways (BBS1, BARD1, and SMURF1) showed moderate negative correlation with mean pulmonary arterial pressure (mPAP) in patients with IPF-PH. These data show that, in patients with IPF-PH, smoking is associated with reduced DLCO, and suggest that BBS1, BARD1, and SMURF1 could be considered as potential biomarkers of PH severity in smokers with IPF-PH.© 2026 The Author(s). Pulmonary Circulation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Pulmonary Vascular Research Institute.
Prenatal diagnosis of genetic syndromes often relies on structural anomalies; however, many monogenic disorders show atypical or evolving prenatal phenotypes, limiting imaging-based diagnosis. We report four fetuses with atypical presentations diagnosed by exome/genome sequencing. Pathogenic variants were identified in BBS1, SLC26A2, POMT2, and COL25A1. Prenatal findings included heterotaxy with complex heart disease, isolated long bone shortening, subtle CNS anomalies, and recurrent contractures. These cases highlight the variability in the prenatal phenotypic spectrum of genetic disorders and the value of genomic sequencing for accurate genetic counseling and reproductive decision-making.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The Kazakh mare, an indigenous breed of Xinjiang, exhibits strong adaptability to arid and cold conditions while maintaining relatively stable milk production under low-input extensive farming systems. However, its genetic improvement has been constrained by traditional management practices.In this study, we monitored milk yield and milk composition over a 105-day lactation period and recorded 15 phenotypic traits. Milk yield was significantly correlated with body length, teat diameter, and teat length. The high-yield (HY) versus low-yield (LY) and high-fat (HF) versus low-fat (LF) comparisons identified 286 and 627 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), respectively. Several candidate genes were identified, including PMP22, FAM83A, HSD17B3, AGPAT4, SLC50A1, and ERBB3, which were associated with pathways including PI3K-Akt signaling, MAPK signaling, and triglyceride metabolism. High-yield mares showed metabolic differences characterized by enrichment of pathways related to the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, suggesting altered energy and intermediary metabolism involving carbohydrates, lipids, and amino acids. Metabolites associated with these differences included glycerone, α-D-glucose, D-galactose, glycerol, L-histidine, and anserine. In addition, machine learning analysis identified GLDC as a candidate gene potentially associated with milk fat percentage, possibly through its association with histidine. However, this relationship requires further validation.Using peripheral blood samples, this study integrated differential expression analysis, mixed linear models, and machine learning approaches to identify candidate genes and metabolites associated with lactation performance in Kazakh mares. The results provide preliminary insights into molecular and metabolic features associated with lactation traits in this breed. These findings may serve as a reference for future molecular breeding and nutritional studies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) is a rare autosomal recessive ciliopathy with at least 26 identified causative genes. BBS7 accounts for approximately 1.5% of cases. The syndrome is characterized by retinal degeneration, obesity, polydactyly, intellectual disability, and renal anomalies. BBS7 encodes a core subunit of the BBSome complex, which is essential for ciliary function and intracellular signaling.We report a 9-year-old Palestinian boy with BBS7, confirmed by whole exome sequencing identifying a homozygous pathogenic variant in the BBS7 gene [c.712_715del]; both parents were heterozygous carriers. To our knowledge, this is the first genetically confirmed case of BBS7 in Palestine. Written informed consent was obtained from the father, the legal guardian. The patient exhibited postaxial polydactyly, generalized obesity (BMI 32.8), developmental delay, learning difficulties, hypothyroidism, and mild craniofacial dysmorphism. Ocular findings included a best-corrected visual acuity of 20/33 bilaterally, compound myopic astigmatism (spherical equivalents: -7.12 D OD and -7.25 D OS), and 15 prism diopters of constant left exotropia. Optical coherence tomography revealed marked thinning of the retinal nerve fiber layer and ganglion cell complex consistent with progressive retinal degeneration. Fundus imaging demonstrated tilted optic discs, bone spicule pigmentation, and peripapillary atrophy. Full-field electroretinography confirmed rod-cone dystrophy with significantly reduced amplitudes and prolonged implicit times. Corneal topography showed no evidence of keratoconus.This case contributes novel region-specific clinical and genetic data on BBS7, with comprehensive ophthalmic phenotyping including OCT, full-field ERG, and corneal topography. It underscores the value of early multidisciplinary evaluation and genetic testing, particularly in consanguineous populations. Continued reporting of genetically confirmed BBS7 cases will strengthen understanding of genotype-phenotype correlations and support improved clinical management.Copyright © 2026 Ibrahim Taha et al. Case Reports in Ophthalmological Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) molecular heterogeneity limits traditional prognostic models. Given the emerging role of neural regulation (NR) in tumor progression, we aimed to delineate NR-associated cellular phenotypes via single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and develop a robust machine-learning-derived signature (NR.Sig) to precisely assess prognosis and guide personalized immunotherapy.We integrated three LUAD scRNA-seq cohorts and ten transcriptomic cohorts with immunotherapy records. Single-cell analyses (clustering, cell-cell communication, pseudotime trajectory) identified NR-enriched epithelial subpopulations. Using their prognostic marker genes, we evaluated 101 combinations from 10 machine learning algorithms via leave-one-out cross-validation. The combination yielding the highest C-index formed the NR.Sig model. Its prognostic accuracy, stability, and clinical utility in characterizing the tumor immune microenvironment (TME) and forecasting immunotherapy efficacy were comprehensively validated across multiple independent cohorts."CRABP2-positive epithelial cells" were identified as a stem-like, NR-enriched malignant subpopulation correlating strongly with immune exhaustion. The random survival forest (RSF)-based NR.Sig achieved optimal modeling performance. Validation confirmed that NR.Sig high-risk patients had significantly shorter overall and progression-free survival. NR.Sig outperformed conventional clinical indicators and existing prognostic models, with FAM83A identified as the core hub gene. Crucially, high-risk scores inversely correlated with immune infiltration. Conversely, the low-risk group exhibited an "immune-hot" phenotype with enhanced cancer-immunity cycle activity and elevated checkpoint expression, translating to significantly higher immunotherapy response rates in independent clinical cohorts.By integrating scRNA-seq with an optimized machine learning framework, we developed and validated NR.Sig. This robust signature holds significant clinical translational value, serving as a precise molecular tool for LUAD risk stratification, prognostic assessment, and the guidance of personalized immunotherapy strategies.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42522710 is a review article
Congenital heart defects (CHD) constitute a prevalent group of structural birth anomalies, characterised by substantial genetic heterogeneity and diverse clinical phenotypes.To investigate the underlying genetic architecture, we performed whole-genome sequencing (WGS) in a cohort of 50 patients with echocardiographically confirmed CHD, followed by systematic variant identification and functional annotation.Our analysis reveals the limited discriminatory capacity of current genomic annotation databases and underscores the necessity of stratifying genetic risk assessments by specific CHD subtypes. By integrating clinical classifications, genomic data, and tissue-specific expression profiles, we identified novel coding and non-coding variants alongside putative regulatory signals that may contribute to CHD pathogenesis. Within cardiac-specific genes, we identified CHD subtype-specific genetic associations, including JARID2 with PDA, GOSR2/TBX18 with VSD, PCDHA9 with ASD, and a multi-gene signature (CREBBP, ZFPM2, SLC27A6, ADAM17, ETS1) with atrioventricular septal defects. Among coding variants in non-CHD-associated genes, we identified COL11A2 and PCOLCE2 as plausible collagen-related candidates for CHD pathogenesis.These findings reinforce the polygenic architecture of CHD and highlight the value of context-aware, phenotype-driven interpretation of genetic variants. Collectively, this study expands the understanding of the genetic landscape underlying congenital heart anomalies and emphasises the need for larger, deeply phenotyped cohorts to translate these preliminary insights into clinically applicable predictors.© 2026 Korobeinikova, Petriaikina, Tychinin, Yudin, Bulaeva, Gyulmamedova, Khugaev, Sukhacheva, Snigir, Mitrofanov, Rumyantseva, Svetlichnyy, Yudin, Golukhova and Skvortsova.
Extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma (EMC) is a rare soft-tissue sarcoma driven by the EWSR1::NR4A3 fusion. Its unpredictable clinical course and lack of validated molecular prognostic tools complicate patient treatment.We performed whole-transcriptome targeted RNA sequencing (TempO-Seq) on archival formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumor specimens from 12 molecularly confirmed EMC cases. To explore potential biological markers, the cohort was stratified into good-prognosis (n = 6; overall survival (OS) >8 years) and poor-prognosis (n = 6; OS < 8 years) groups. We conducted differential expression analysis, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), and applied least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO)-Cox regression with bootstrap validation (1,000 iterations). Candidate genes were cross-validated using 31 external EMC cases across public microarray and NGS datasets. Immune infiltration was estimated computationally and spatially validated via multiplex immunofluorescence (mIF) on two representative specimens.We identified 550 differentially expressed genes and derived a three-gene prognostic candidate (PXN, TYMS, H1FX) that stratified patients by overall survival in the training cohort (log-rank P = 0.0099), despite internal validation indicating model overfitting. H1FX was significantly upregulated in EMC versus other cartilaginous tumors across independent datasets (P = 0.001). Immune profiling revealed higher B-cell infiltration in low-risk tumors (P = 0.005). Proof-of-concept mIF in two specimens suggested a spatially localized immunosuppressive microenvironment in the high-risk tumor, with increased exhausted CD3+CD8+PD1+ T cells (P = 6.4 × 10-5), FOXP3+ regulatory T cells (P = 0.006), and elevated PXN protein expression (P = 0.008). All mIF comparisons are within-specimen region of interest (ROI) analyses and should be interpreted as hypothesis-generating.This integrated transcriptomic and spatial immune characterization identifies PXN, TYMS, and H1FX as exploratory EMC biomarker candidates, with PXN showing the most consistent cross-platform support. Immune microenvironment heterogeneity in EMC warrants further investigation. Given the small cohort and model overfitting, these findings are exploratory. Prospective validation in larger, multi-center cohorts is required.©2026 Chaiboonchoe et al.
Background: Coarctation of the aorta (CoA) is a congenital narrowing of the aortic isthmus near the ductus arteriosus or ligamentum arteriosum. Despite successful anatomical repair, patients remain at risk of recoarctation, arterial hypertension, and diffuse aortopathy, suggesting intrinsic vessel-wall abnormalities beyond localized obstruction. The developmental and molecular basis of these persistent vascular features remains incompletely understood. Methods: Human aortic tissue samples were obtained from 8 male infants with CoA and 6 age- and sex-matched controls aged <1 year. Total RNA was isolated, and gene expression profiling was performed using whole human genome oligo microarrays (Agilent). Differentially expressed transcripts were subjected to pathway, network, and upstream regulator analyses using Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA, Qiagen). Selected candidate genes were evaluated by RT-qPCR in independent verification sets. Results: Transcriptomic profiling identified 402 analysis-ready transcripts distinguishing CoA from control tissue. Exploratory pathway analyses suggested extracellular matrix remodeling characterized by collagen turnover, integrin-mediated cell-matrix interactions, wound-healing signaling, and fibrosis-associated programs. In addition, enrichment analyses identified developmental annotations involving retinoic acid (RA)/RAR/RXR signaling, HOX-associated developmental programs, and a shared HOX/MEIS-associated signature. Network and upstream regulator analyses further suggested associations with cytoskeletal, muscle-associated, and epigenetic regulatory pathways, including KAT6A, KAT6B, retinoic acid/RAR/RXR signaling, DNMT3B, KMT2A, and ARID1A. RT-qPCR independently confirmed increased expression of EDN1, AGTR2, IRS4, and TFAP2B.Conclusions: Infantile CoA tissue exhibited molecular signatures consistent with vessel-wall remodeling accompanied by developmental, vascular signaling, and smooth muscle/cytoskeletal regulatory programs. These findings support the hypothesis that developmental patterning signals and postnatal extracellular matrix remodeling coexist within CoA tissue and may contribute to persistent vascular abnormalities beyond anatomical repair. Given the exploratory nature of the study, these observations should be considered hypothesis-generating and require validation in independent cohorts.
Myoepithelioma-like tumor of the vulvar region (MELTVR) is a rare SMARCB1-deficient mesenchymal neoplasm of adult women that can mimic malignant vulvar sarcomas, particularly epithelioid sarcoma. Although loss of SMARCB1/INI1 expression is a defining feature, the comprehensive genomic landscape of MELTVR remains poorly characterized. We report two cases of MELTVR and performed integrated histopathologic, immunophenotypic, and molecular analyses, including whole-exome sequencing (WES) with copy number assessment and targeted RNA-based fusion testing using the Archer FusionPlex Sarcoma panel. Histologically, both tumors consisted of relatively uniform epithelioid to short spindle cells in solid nests and cords within focal myxoid stroma, with complete loss of INI1 and positivity for smooth muscle markers and focal ER/EMA expression. Genomic profiling demonstrated a quiet molecular background in both cases, with low tumor mutation burden (0.45 and 1.03 mut/Mb) and no pathogenic SNVs/indels in major cancer-associated genes. One case showed a focal homozygous deletion of the SMARCB1 locus at 22q11.2, whereas the other case exhibited INI1 loss without detectable SMARCB1 mutation or copy number loss, suggesting heterogeneous mechanisms of inactivation. CDKN2A copy number remained neutral in both tumors. No canonical sarcoma-associated gene rearrangements, including EWSR1, FUS, PLAG1, or NR4A3, were identified. Together with a review of previously reported cases, these findings support MELTVR as an SMARCB1-inactivated neoplasm with low genomic complexity and highlight the diagnostic value of NGS-based profiling in excluding malignant mimics and preventing overtreatment.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Objective To investigate the early transcriptomic characteristics of neutrophils and monocytes stimulated by the major surface protein 2 (MSP2) of anaplasma phagocytophilum(AP), to preliminarily explore their functional differences and potential common pro-inflammatory mechanisms of these two cell types in the inflammatory response, and to provide a theoretical basis for understanding the inflammatory pathogenesis of Human Granulocytic Anaplasmosis (HGA) and for developing anti-inflammatory strategies. Methods HL60 cells (rHL60) differentiated with dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) for 8 days were used as a neutrophil-like cell model, and human acute monocytic leukemia (THP-1) cells were used as a monocyte model. Both cells were stimulated with recombinant MSP2 (rMSP2) for 2 hours. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified by transcriptome sequencing, and their biological functions and related signaling pathways were analyzed via Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment. The mRNA expression levels of key DEGs were validated by real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR), and the concentrations of cytokines in cell supernatants were measured by ELISA. Results Transcriptome analysis showed that in rHL60 cells, DEGs were mainly enriched in inflammation. qPCR confirmed the up-regulation of C-C motif chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7) and oxidized low-density lipoprotein receptor 1 (OLR1), while CD1D molecule and C-X-C motif chemokine receptors 1/2 (CXCR1/2) were down-regulated. In THP-1 cells, DEGs were primarily enriched in transcriptional regulation. qPCR validated the up-regulation of nuclear factor kappa B inhibitor zeta (NFKBIZ) and nuclear receptor subfamily 4 group A member 3 (NR4A3), whereas thioredoxin-interacting protein (TXNIP) and interleukin-16 (IL-16) were down-regulated. ELISA results demonstrated that both cell types significantly secreted C-C motif chemokine ligands 3/4/20 (CCL3/4/20) following MSP2 stimulation. Conclusion In the early phase of MSP2 stimulation, neutrophils serve as the primary cells initiating the inflammatory response, whereas monocytes focus on immune regulation. The co-secretion of CCL3, CCL4, and CCL20 may represent a potential molecular mechanism by which these two innate immune cell types jointly promote inflammatory responses during AP infection.
Neural crest cells exhibit axial-level-specific transcriptional programs, yet the regulatory mechanisms underlying their fate decisions remain unclear. Here, we investigate whether differential transcription factor usage governs cardiac neural crest cell identity. Comparing ATAC-seq profiles of cardiac and cranial neural crest revealed open chromatin regions that were both shared and region-specific. Single-cell RNA sequencing further identified putative target genes, including signaling molecules and receptors. We uncovered two adjacent Cxcr4 enhancers: one specific to the cardiac crest containing a TGIF binding site, and another active in both cranial and cardiac crest containing a TFAP2B binding site. Mutating the TFAP2B site abolished cranial, but not cardiac, crest expression. Finally, we show that the cardiac crest-specific Cxcr4 enhancer also drives expression in zebrafish cardiac crest cells, suggesting evolutionary conservation across vertebrates. These findings suggest that transcription factors enriched in distinct neural crest subpopulations may bias cell fate by modulating enhancer activity, shedding light on the regulatory landscape governing neural crest diversity.
Vascular endothelial dysfunction is a core pathological feature of diabetes-associated vascular complications, primarily driven by impaired nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability due to dysregulated endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) activity. While pharmacological strategies targeting the eNOS pathway have shown promise, the discovery of natural compounds capable of restoring endothelial function through novel molecular targets remains an important research direction.The aim of this study was to investigate the targets and molecular mechanisms of Chikusetsusaponin V (CsV) in regulating vascular endothelial function in diabetes mellitus (DM).The DM models were constructed using db/db mice and high-glucose cultured human aortic endothelial cells (HAECs). The vasodilatory function was investigated using techniques such as metal wire microvascular tension measurement and ultrasonography after intervention with CsV. Modern techniques such as affinity chromatography, mass spectrometry, molecular docking and microscale thermophoresis (MST) test were used to identify the direct targets of CsV. The key pathways and downstream transcription factors involved in the improvement of vasodilatory function of CsV were screened using RNA-Seq. Subsequent validation was performed using a dual luciferase assay. Knockdown adenoviral vectors, quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), and Western blot (WB) were used to elucidate the molecular mechanism of CsV in regulating the vasodilatory function in DM.The results showed that CsV down-regulated blood glucose and increased the expression of eNOS and p-eNOS (S1177), which improved vasodilatation and reduced vascular stiffness in DM mice. Additionally, CsV increased NO release and tube-forming capacity of HAECs. CsV can directly bind to the membrane protein ITGB1. In vivo and in vitro experiments showed that administration of CsV after knockdown of ITGB1 or inhibiting PI3K significantly down-regulated the expression of p-PI3K/PI3K, p-AKT/AKT, p-mTOR/mTOR, NR4A3, PURA, and p-eNOS (S1177)/eNOS, decreased NO levels, and affected angiogenesis and endothelial cell function. In contrast, overexpression of ITGB1 produced the opposite results. Moreover, knockdown NR4A3 inhibited NR4A3/PURA/eNOS expression and affected endothelial function, whereas overexpression produced the opposite result.CsV improves endothelial function in DM vasculature by targeting ITGB1, enhancing eNOS phosphorylation via the PI3K/AKT pathway, and promoting PURA/eNOS expression through PI3K/AKT/mTOR/NR4A3. These findings support CsV's potential use for improving diabetes vascular function.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
NDRG1 protein engages with the orphan nuclear receptor NR4A1, effectively suppressing the transcriptional activity of NF-κB and influencing the inflammatory response. However, the specific roles of the NDRG family and NR4A transcription factors in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) remain poorly defined, particularly regarding potential differential mechanisms between ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease (CD). We hypothesize that NDRG-NR4A interactions are differentially regulated in UC versus CD, contributing to disease-specific modulation of NF-κB signaling and inflammatory responses. Therefore, the aim was to analyze gene and protein expression of both protein families (NDRGs: NDRG1, NDRG2, NDRG3, and NDRG4; and NR4A: NR4A1, NR4A2, and NR4A3), their contributions to UC and CD, and their association with disease severity. In this cross-sectional and comparative study, we assess gene and protein expression of NR4A and NDRG1-4 in 38 UC patients, 10 CD patients, and 18 controls. Gene and protein expression levels were measured by RT-PCR (mucosa) and immunohistochemistry (colonic tissue), respectively. The colonic mucosa from remission UC patients showed upregulation of NDRG2 and the nuclear receptor genes NR4A1-3 compared with controls. NDRG4 was upregulated in active UC patients compared with controls. NDRG1 was downmodulated in active and remission UC patients compared with controls. All differences were statistically significant (p < 0.05). Decreased NR4A2 gene expression was associated with high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (p = 0.030) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate levels (p = 0.001). Our results provide the first evidence of differential alterations in the NDRG-NR4A axis in UC and CD, which could modulate NF κB signaling and the inflammatory profile differently in each disease, opening the possibility of new therapeutic options.
Osteoporosis (OP) and cognitive decline are highly prevalent comorbidities; however, the molecular mechanisms linking them remain unclear. We adopted a multimodal integrative strategy combining neuroimaging, transcriptomics, single-cell analysis, and in vivo validation to elucidate potential mechanisms.Fifty-six patients and fifty-three healthy controls underwent resting-state functional MRI (fMRI) to assess regional homogeneity (ReHo) and amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF). Transcriptomic data from the Allen Human Brain Atlas (AHBA), single-nucleus RNA sequencing (snRNA-seq) of the human hippocampus, and validation using ovariectomized (OVX) mouse models were integrated.fMRI revealed significant ALFF/ReHo alterations in the hippocampus, prefrontal cortex, and posterior cingulate cortex of OP patients, with the left hippocampal ALFF mediating the association between bone mineral density (BMD) and Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) scores. Spatial correlation analyses have linked these brain functional changes to neurotransmitter receptors (5-HT1a, D1, GABAa, etc.) and genes enriched in synaptic function, neurogenesis, and dopaminergic signaling. snRNA-seq identified the caudal hippocampus as a key region, with astrocytes enriched in OP-associated Gene Program 5 (involving NR4A3 and KCNIP1) and functional pathways such as glutamatergic synapses and calcium signaling. OVX mice showed bone loss, spatial learning/memory impairment, hippocampal astrocyte abnormalities, and upregulation of GFAP, RGS7, and RGS6 proteins.Our multimodal study establishes a molecular framework for the bone-brain axis, highlighting astrocytes and synaptic signaling as potential targets for the dual protection of bone and brain health.Copyright © 2026 Fang, Li, Xu, Xue, Wang and Zhou.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566092 is a review article
We investigated the role of SIRT1 in linear growth and bone structure, focusing on the response of the epiphyseal growth plate (EGP) to nutritional manipulation.A ColX-Cre driver was used to target hypertrophic chondrocytes (HZ), and generate hypertrophic specific Sirt1 knockout (CKO) mice.We found that Sirt1 deletion in hypertrophic chondrocytes markedly impaired growth in males, with a 33% reduction in body weight and 10-11% shorter long bones and EGP height (P<0.05). In females, effects were milder (12% reduction in weight, 5-7% shorter long bones; P<0.05 in both) but EGP height was reduced similarly to the males. These mice were next tested in a catch-up (CU) growth model involving food restriction followed by refeeding. Under CU conditions, male CKO mice showed an unexpected exaggerated response, surpassing the weight and bone length of normally fed CKO.We therefore conclude that targeted Sirt1 deletion in the hypertrophic zone revealed a strong sex-dependent effect on skeletal growth and bone quality. Both male and female CKO mice exhibited growth impairment under normal conditions compared to littermate control (CTL), however while male showed hyper-responsiveness to refeeding, females CKO showed only moderate alterations. This targeted approach uncovers sex-dependent role for SIRT1 in regulating growth and bone quality, moving beyond its generally understood functions in cartilage and bone development. The distinct responses to both basal conditions and nutritional stress between sexes represent a significant new finding, extending its known role beyond general cartilage and bone development.Copyright © 2026 Shtaif, Menahem, Hornfeld, Gabet, Phillip and Gat-Yablonski.
Prolonged physical fatigue impairs physiological homeostasis and quality of life, necessitating effective interventions. This study aimed to investigate the anti-fatigue effects and underlying mechanisms of a novel L-β-galactoglucan (APG) with two distinct molecular weights in mice under two different swimming load models using multiomics approaches. The results showed that APG could significantly extend exhaustive swimming time, reduce elevated serum lactate and blood urea nitrogen levels, increase muscle glycogen storage, and mitigate swimming-induced skeletal muscle and mitochondrial damage. Compared with its medium-molecular-weight counterpart, high-molecular-weight APG was more effective at improving these indicators. APG optimized the gut microbiota and increased the content of short-chain fatty acids. Specifically, it increased the ratio of Bacteroidetes/Bacillota and promoted the abundance of beneficial bacteria, including Dubosiella, Lachnospiraceae_UCG-006, Parabacteroides, Roseburia, Faecalibaculum and norank_o_Clostridia_vadinBB60_group, while increasing the concentrations of acetic, propanoic, and isobutyric acids. Notably, APG exerted load-specific regulatory effects: In the weight-bearing model, APG modulated mainly purine metabolism, whereas in the non-weight-bearing model, it predominantly regulated tryptophan metabolism. Both pathways converge to synergistically activate AMPK/SIRT1/PGC-1α signaling. Molecular docking further verified that APG exhibited strong binding affinity to key targets in these pathways. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that APG exerts anti-fatigue effects in a molecular weight-dependent and load-specific manner via the gut-muscle axis, providing a scientific basis for the development of APG as a targeted anti-fatigue functional ingredient.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Guazuma ulmifolia is traditionally used for liver disorders, but its protective mechanisms against heavy metal toxicity are poorly defined. This study evaluated the phytochemical profile and hepatoprotective mechanisms of G. ulmifolia butanol extract (Gul-BuOH) against cadmium-induced liver injury.Gul-BuOH was chemically profiled by UPLC-PDA-ESI-qTOF-MS/MS. Cadmium hepatotoxicity was induced in rats, followed by Gul-BuOH treatment (100 and 200 mg/kg). Liver injury, oxidative stress, inflammation, gene expression (Let-7a, HOTAIR), histopathology, HO-1/Sirt-1 immunoreactivity, and serum metabolomic changes were assessed. Chemical profiling led to the annotation of 42 compounds, including mainly flavonoids and phenolic acids, highlighting the rich phytochemical composition of G. ulmifolia. CdCl2 exposure increased hepatic Cd accumulation and elevated ALT, AST, and ALP, reduced TAC, and increased NO and MDA. Gul-BuOH significantly reduced hepatic Cd levels by 2.6- and 3.2-fold, restored TAC by 38.3% and 83.2%, and decreased NO (56.3% and 63.4%) and MDA (45.4% and 54.6%) at 100 and 200 mg/kg, respectively. Inflammatory markers NF-κB-p and TNF-α were markedly suppressed, while miRNA Let-7a was upregulated and lncRNA HOTAIR was downregulated. Histological and immunohistochemical analyses revealed near-complete restoration of hepatic architecture and normalization of HO-1 and Sirt-1 expression at the high dose. Serum metabolomics' OPLS-DA model performance indicators demonstrated strong reliability, with an R2Y (explained variance) of 0.991 and a Q2 (predictive variance) of 0.988). The model identified 36 significantly altered metabolites that were largely normalized by Gul-BuOH, implicating linoleic acid metabolism, amino acid biosynthesis, and ascorbate-related pathways.Gul-BuOH affords dose-dependent protection against Cd-induced liver injury by modulating oxidative stress, inflammation, metal detoxification, and metabolic pathways, supporting the traditional use of G. ulmifolia and its potential as a multi-target hepatoprotective agent.Copyright: © 2026 Elsabagh et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
This exploratory study aimed to identify the effects of SIRT1 polymorphisms on the serum lipidomic profile and pathological characteristics in metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD).Chinese Han patients with biopsy-proven MASLD were genotyped for the single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in SIRT1. Lipidomics based on untargeted ultra-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UHPLC-MS) was applied to map the SIRT1-driven serum lipid signature, followed by correlation analyses linking these lipid traits to hepatic steatosis, ballooning, lobular inflammation, and fibrosis. Integrative pathological scoring finally explored how SIRT1 variants that remodel circulating lipids may be associated with MASLD-specific histological change.SIRT1 SNPs (rs3740053, rs2394443, rs2236318, rs7896005, rs2273773, rs2394445, and rs2394446) demonstrated extensive association with serum lipidomics of MASLD patients. SIRT1 rs2236318, rs7896005, and rs2394445, affecting 2, 7, and 7 serum triacylglycerols (TAGs) respectively, dominated the SIRT1 SNP-lipidomics association. Quantitative analysis revealed significantly elevated TAGs levels (48:0, 50:0, 50:1, 52:0, 52:1, 52:2, and 54:1), the most abundant species, in MASLD patients with rs2394445 A/A genotype compared with A/T+T/T. These elevated rs2394445-dependent TAG levels were associated with high-grade hepatic steatosis (rho: 0.367 to 0.540, p < 0.033-0.001) rather than ballooning, lobular inflammation, or fibrosis. The significant correlation of rs2394445 A/A genotype with severe steatosis suggested a potential pathological link through TAG profile modulation. In contrast, rs2394445 showed a limited effect on total circulating lipids and obesity indices (BMI, WHtR).The A/A genotype at SIRT1 rs2394445 is associated with elevated serum TAGs containing saturated or monounsaturated fatty acids, which are linked to high-grade hepatic steatosis in MASLD independently of obesity.Copyright © 2026 Pan, Guo, Cao, Zheng, Mi, Zhang, Shen and Xu.
Adequate sleep is essential for biological rhythmicity and metabolic homeostasis, but chronic sleep restriction (CSR), a common modern challenge, disrupts hypothalamic function and contributes to circadian dysregulation, oxidative stress, and metabolic disturbances. This study investigated the effects of AdipoRon (AR), an adiponectin receptor agonist, on CSR-associated changes in hypothalamic clock-gene expression, oxidative stress markers, and components of the SIRT1/NRF2/HO-1 signaling axis. Male mice were assigned to control, CSR, CSR + Melatonin (Mel), and CSR + AR groups. Animals underwent 21 days of sleep restriction (18 h/day) using the multiple-platform approach and received intranasal AR (10 µg) or Mel (40 µg) daily for 21 days. Circadian clock genes (Clock, Bmal1, Per1, and Cry1), oxidative stress markers (malondialdehyde, superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, and total antioxidant capacity), and components of the SIRT1/NRF2/HO-1 pathway were assessed in the hypothalamus. Serum lipid profile and liver enzymes were also measured. The results showed that CSR induced marked alterations in hypothalamic clock-related gene expression, accompanied by increased oxidative stress and reduced expression of SIRT1/NRF2/HO-1 pathway-related proteins. In addition, CSR reduced body weight gain and triglyceride levels while increasing low-density lipoprotein (LDL), aspartate transaminase (AST), and alanine aminotransferase (ALT). In contrast, AR treatment partially reversed CSR-associated alterations in clock-related gene expression, attenuated oxidative stress, reduced LDL and ALT levels, and increased the expression of SIRT1/NRF2/HO-1 pathway-related proteins. These findings suggest that AR may mitigate CSR-associated molecular and metabolic alterations and warrant further investigation into its underlying mechanisms.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction are key features of sarcopenia-related skeletal muscle metabolic dysfunction. This study aimed to identify MFG-E8-derived bioactive peptides with antioxidant and metabolic regulatory potential. Integrated bioinformatics analysis highlighted oxidative phosphorylation, thermogenesis, ROS-related pathways and lipid metabolic regulation as major molecular features of sarcopenia-related metabolic dysfunction. After simulated gastrointestinal digestion of bovine milk fat globule epidermal growth factor 8 (MFG-E8), 98 peptides were identified by LC-MS/MS. Candidate peptides were prioritized using peptidomics, ADMET prediction, molecular docking, Caco-2 monolayer-based transepithelial transport assessment and L6 cell-based validation. Among the selected peptides, YAR showed a favorable multi-target docking profile with Akt, PPARα and SIRT1, together with putative transepithelial transport potential in a Caco-2 monolayer model. and its detection in basolateral fractions after Caco-2 monolayer transport. In dexamethasone-injured L6 myoblasts, YAR displayed the strongest cytoprotective activity, reducing intracellular ROS by up to 52.6%, stabilizing mitochondrial membrane potential, and increasing total Akt and p-Akt fluorescence intensities by 30% and 32%, respectively. YAR also partially restored PI3K/Akt signaling and modulated downstream metabolic effectors, including GLUT4 and PPARα. These findings identify YAR as a promising MFG-E8-derived antioxidant peptide with potential transepithelial transport and cytoprotective activity, providing a mechanistic basis for developing food-derived peptides targeting oxidative stress-related skeletal muscle metabolic dysfunction.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a potent anthracycline chemotherapeutic agent, but its clinical use is limited by cumulative cardiotoxicity. Exercise, particularly high-intensity interval training (HIIT), has emerged as an effective non-pharmacological strategy to counteract chemotherapy-induced cardiac injury. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the cardioprotective effects of HIIT remain unclear. This study aimed to determine whether HIIT attenuates DOX-induced cardiotoxicity via activation of the fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21)/sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) signalling pathway in rats. Thirty-three male Wistar rats (200-250 g) were randomly assigned to three groups (n = 11 each): control (CONTROL), DOX-treated sedentary (DOX-Sed) and DOX-treated HIIT (DOX-HIIT). DOX-induced cardiotoxicity was induced by intraperitoneal DOX injections (12 mg/kg cumulative dose over 12 days). After confirmation of cardiac dysfunction by echocardiography, the DOX-HIIT group completed an 8 week treadmill HIIT programme (three sessions per week, five intervals of 4 min at 85%-90% of maximal O2 uptake separated by 2 min at 50%-60% of maximal O2 uptake). Cardiac function, oxidative stress markers, inflammatory cytokines, plasma levels of FGF21 and protein expression of FGFR1 and the SIRT1/AMPK/Nrf2 pathway were assessed. HIIT improved survival (81.8% vs. 63.6% in DOX-Sed), prevented weight loss and ameliorated left ventricular systolic dysfunction, as evidenced by increased ejection fraction and fractional shortening (P < 0.05). HIIT reduced cardiac interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-1β and malondialdehyde levels while elevating antioxidant enzyme activities. Mechanistically, HIIT increased plasma FGF21 and phosphorylated FGFR1 and upregulated SIRT1, LKB1 and phosphorylated AMPK, leading to activation of the Nrf2/HO-1 antioxidant pathway. Therefore, HIIT-induced FGF21 has a potential therapeutic effect on cardiac function in DOX-induced cardiotoxicity through activation of the FGF21/SIRT1/LKB1/AMPK/Nrf2/HO-1 signalling pathway.© 2026 The Author(s). Experimental Physiology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Physiological Society.
SDF4 is a calcium-binding protein with limited research in cancer, particularly liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC). This study aims to clarify its expression and prognostic significance in LIHC, explore its regulatory effects on the tumor microenvironment (TME), and assess its relationship with drug sensitivity for new diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.This investigation assessed the prognostic value of SDF4, constructed a predictive nomogram, and examined drug sensitivity through molecular docking simulations. Leveraging a single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) dataset, we characterized cellular subsets and SDF4 expression patterns within the LIHC microenvironment. Cellular developmental trajectories and intercellular signaling networks were elucidated via pseudotime and CellChat analyses, respectively. Furthermore, we conducted in silico gene knockout experiments alongside comprehensive pathway enrichment assessments. The spatial distribution of SDF4 in liver malignancies was mapped using spatial transcriptomics and subsequently confirmed by immunohistochemical staining.SDF4 exhibited significant overexpression in LIHC tissues and was independently linked to an unfavorable prognosis. Elevated SDF4 levels were associated with more advanced pathological tumor stage (T stage) and clinical stage, establishing it as a reliable prognostic marker, especially in early-stage tumors and older patients. The developed nomogram provided accurate predictions for overall survival (OS) at 1, 3, and 5 years. SDF4 expression showed a significant correlation with sensitivity to multiple anti-cancer agents, and molecular docking studies suggested possible binding interactions. Single-cell sequencing analysis indicated that high SDF4 expression was linked to an enrichment of tumor cells. In silico knockout analysis suggested that SDF4 depletion led to upregulation of genes involved in immunoglobulin-related and complement/coagulation cascades. Pseudotime trajectory analysis demonstrated that elevated SDF4 expression promoted complex evolutionary paths within the TME. Cell-cell communication analysis further confirmed that high SDF4 expression strengthened interaction networks, particularly enhancing signaling from tumor cells to cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), and CD8+ T cells. Spatial transcriptomic analysis revealed that SDF4 exhibited significant enrichment within tumor cell regions of LIHC. Immunohistochemical analysis validated the elevated expression of SDF4 in human hepatocellular carcinoma specimens.Our research highlights SDF4's crucial role in hepatocellular carcinoma, suggesting it as a therapeutic target and a biomarker for prognosis, while influencing tumor progression and drug response.© AME Publishing Company.
Basement membrane-related genes (BMRGs) play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of several diseases. However, their association with coronary artery disease (CAD) remains unexplored. Therefore, this investigation is designed to elucidate the involvement of BMRGs in CAD mechanisms.This study incorporated CAD-related datasets (GSE113079 and GSE125856) and BMRGs. Initially, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified between CAD and control (CTL) groups in GSE113079 and GSE125856. Subsequently, weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA) was carried out to identify key module genes associated with basement membranes. We then intersected the DEGs with the key module genes to obtain differentially expressed basement membrane-related genes (DE-BMRGs). Two machine learning algorithms were applied to recognize feature genes, and the intersection of these features yielded the key genes. Subsequently, immune analysis, regulatory network construction, nomogram development, and expression verification were executed based on key genes.Five key genes were identified: C1QTNF3, PTGER2, CAMK2N1, PRSS36, and B3GNT7. Among these, C1QTNF3 (AUC = 0.954), PTGER2 (AUC = 0.878), CAMK2N1 (AUC = 0.872), and B3GNT7 (AUC = 0.855) exhibited strong diagnostic potential in GSE113079, whereas PRSS36 showed more modest performance (AUC = 0.667). Moreover, 11 differences were observed in immune cell populations between the two groups (p < 0.05), including CD8 T cells, and we constructed a TF-miRNA-gene network comprising 112 regulatory relationships, such as the regulation of C1QTNF3 by SMAD4 and hsa-miR-302a-3p. Additionally, the expression of these five key genes was consistently lower in the CAD group across GSE113079, GSE125856, and clinical patients.This study identified five key genes associated with the basement membrane (C1QTNF3, PTGER2, CAMK2N1, PRSS36, and B3GNT7) that offer valuable scientific insights into the mechanisms of CAD. These genes represent candidate noninvasive molecular markers requiring further validation for early diagnosis and serve as preliminary candidates for subsequent therapeutic target exploration.Copyright © 2026 Zhao Dong et al. Cardiovascular Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
We report a case of Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) complicated by bilateral Coats-like exudative vasculopathy with exudative retinal detachment and neovascular glaucoma (NVG).A 10-year-old boy noticed decreased visual acuity and was referred to our clinic. He had a history of retinitis pigmentosa, renal dysfunction, obesity, and a delay in mental development at 4 years of age. Genetic testing confirmed BBS with compound heterozygous variants detected in the BBS2 gene. His visual acuity was light perception in both eyes, and the intraocular pressure (IOP) was 14 mmHg in the right eye and 35 mmHg in the left eye. Fundus examination revealed severe exudative changes in both eyes with vitreous hemorrhage in the left eye. In the right eye, fluorescein angiography showed limited retinal vascular circulation and a nonperfused peripheral area in the equatorial region with multiple sites of neovascularization. Panretinal photocoagulation was performed on the right eye, and vitrectomy was performed on the left eye for the NVG. The left eye had proliferative membranes throughout the periphery. Postoperatively, the IOP of the right eye was elevated accompanied by iris rubeosis. Aflibercept was injected Intravitreally and lens-sparing vitrectomy was performed on the right eye with additional endophotocoagulation. One month later, the visual acuity remained at light perception in both eyes. The IOP was well controlled with topical medication at 18 mmHg for the right eye and 20 mmHg for the left eye.The Coats-like exudative lesions associated with eyes with the BBS2 gene variants and retinal vascular occlusion likely led to the NVG.© 2026 The Authors.
Inherited retinal diseases (IRDs) may present as an isolated ocular condition or as part of multisystem disorders, such as Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS). Several BBS-related manifestations are age-dependent and variably expressed. Therefore, patients with early or subtle extra-ocular features may be incorrectly diagnosed as having non-syndromic IRD. There are two diagnostic frameworks for BBS: a phenotype-based, Beales-derived approach and a genotype-first approach, as recommended by the InterEuropean Reference Networks (ERNs) criteria. Here, we aimed to conduct comprehensive evaluations of patients with IRD carrying BBS-related variants.Nineteen patients from nine Jordanian families initially diagnosed with non-syndromic IRD underwent detailed ophthalmic evaluation and molecular testing. Post-genetic testing, participants underwent targeted reverse phenotyping to reveal potentially overlooked syndromic features.Ophthalmic assessment revealed a spectrum ranging from advanced IRDs to phenotypes inclining toward rod-cone, cone-rod, and macular dystrophies. Molecular testing identified potential causative variants in BBS-related genes known to cause both isolated IRD and BBS, namely, CFAP418, BBS2, BBS1, BBS5, and CEP290. A splice donor variant in CFAP418 was the most frequent in our cohort (numbers [n] = 3/9 families), followed by a missense variant in BBS2 (n = 2/9 families). These findings prompted genotype-guided reverse phenotyping, which uncovered previously unrecognized multisystemic involvement. BBS-related major and minor features were discovered across the cohort. The extraretinal major features included obesity (n = 16 patients), polydactyly (n = 7 patients), renal anomalies (n = 7 patients), genitourinary abnormalities (n = 4 patients), and intellectual disability (n = 4 patients). Using Beales-derived criteria, 11 patients met the threshold for BBS. Under ERNs genotype-first recommendations, 18 patients reached the BBS diagnostic limit.Wide intra- and inter-familial clinical variability was observed, even among patients with the same variants in CFAP418 and BBS2. Furthermore, applying genotype-guided diagnostic criteria reclassified multiple patients who did not meet the traditional Beales-based clinical criteria as having BBS. These findings demonstrate that a genotype-first approach can detect patients with unrecognized BBS and facilitate appropriate clinical surveillance, genetic counseling, and management. To our knowledge, this is the first study from Jordan to integrate molecular testing with reverse phenotyping in patients carrying BBS-related genotypes. Importantly, we present the most comprehensive extra-retinal characterization of patients with CFAP418, so far.Copyright © 2026 Azab, Aburizeg, Al-Slaimieh, Naser Aldeen, Hyasat, Alrefae, Albooz, AlAref, Alrefae, Obeidat, Hadidy, Abu-Ameerh, Al-Bdour, Maswadi and Al-Nawaiseh.
Bio-Layer Interferometry (BLI) is an efficient biophysical technique that enables real-time, quantitative analysis of biomolecular interactions. Although commonly used for soluble proteins, their application to membrane proteins remains challenging due to hydrophobicity and detergent dependence. This study presents an optimized BLI protocol for characterizing interactions between detergent-solubilized membrane protein and peptide inhibitor. As a model system, the gating-modifier peptide Grammostola mechanotoxin 4 (GsMTx4) was tested against the multifunctional membrane protein mutant TMEM120A M207A. The FLAG-tagged TMEM120A variant was immobilized on anti-FLAG biosensors-representing a tag-based but fluorescent- and enzyme-label-free setup-and exposed to serial dilutions of GsMTx4 to measure association and dissociation rates. The protocol integrates detergent optimization using Lauryl Maltose Neopentyl Glycol (LMNG) and complementary characterization by mass photometry and differential scanning fluorimetry (DSF). This workflow enables reliable kinetic measurements and is compatible with medium-throughput screening. The approach may be applicable to other membrane protein-ligand systems where detergent stability is maintained. Overall, the study highlights key parameters influencing immobilization efficiency and analyte delivery, supporting the potential utility of BLI in inhibitor profiling and mechanistic studies of membrane protein interactions.
Exercise-induced secreted factors (exerkines) are proposed to coordinate systemic health benefits, yet their human tissue sources and the physiological rules governing transcript-to-serum coupling remain incompletely defined. We integrated multi-tissue transcriptomics with matched serial serum profiling to identify exercise-regulated exerkines and determine whether tissue mass moderates their systemic appearance. Sixteen healthy, sedentary young men performed a single treadmill bout calibrated to expend 300 kcal at 70-75% of maximum heart rate. RNA sequencing was performed on periumbilical subcutaneous adipose tissue, vastus lateralis skeletal muscle and whole blood collected before and immediately after exercise, with serial serum quantification up to 120 min post-exercise. Acute exercise altered adipose and muscle transcriptomes, with a minimal whole-blood response, and upregulated LGALS1 (galectin-1), FSTL1 (follistatin-like 1), OGN (osteoglycin) and C1QTNF3 (C1q and tumour necrosis factor-related protein 3) in both tissues. Serum follistatin-like 1 and galectin-1 concentrations increased significantly immediately after exercise and during recovery. Despite robust transcript induction, OGN and C1QTNF3 did not translate into early circulating increases, indicating candidate-specific kinetics and constraints beyond transcript abundance. Moderation models revealed divergent transcript-to-serum coupling: follistatin-like 1 coupling was moderated by tissue mass in both muscle and adipose depots, whereas galectin-1 followed a muscle-dominant additive profile independent of mass scaling. These findings propose galectin-1 and follistatin-like 1 as human exerkines and indicate that body composition regulates systemic exerkine signatures after exercise, providing a mechanistic framework for understanding physiological variability in exercise-induced adaptations. KEY POINTS: Exercise releases circulating factors that may contribute to health benefits, but the human tissues responsible for their production remain unclear. RNA sequencing was performed in human skeletal muscle, subcutaneous adipose tissue and whole blood, with targeted serum protein quantification over 2 h after a single treadmill bout. Exercise increased LGALS1 and FSTL1 transcripts in skeletal muscle and adipose tissue, with concurrent increases in their circulating protein products immediately post-exercise and during recovery, whereas OGN and C1QTNF3 transcripts increased robustly without an early post-exercise elevation in their circulating protein products. Body composition moderated transcript-to-serum coupling: FSTL1 (follistatin-like 1) showed mass-sensitive coupling, whereas LGALS1 (galectin-1) displayed a muscle-dominant additive profile. Galectin-1 and follistatin-like 1 emerge as exercise-induced exerkines whose circulating responses vary with body composition, supporting their prioritization as candidate mediators of exercise-related health benefits and a framework for interpreting physiological heterogeneity in adaptation.© 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Physiology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Physiological Society.
Adoptive transfer of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) is effective in melanoma and selected solid tumors, but its potential in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remains largely unexplored. We report a 39-year-old male with metastatic PDAC involving lung, peritoneal, liver, and lymph node who received three sequential infusions of TIL expanded ex vivo with IL-2/IL-15/IL-21 from a lung metastasis. Each infusion followed low-dose lymphodepletion and IL-2 support. The patient achieved stable disease after the first infusion and a partial response after the second along with reductions in serum CA19-9. Genome sequencing revealed substantial inter-tumoral heterogeneity, with mutations in ITGB2, C1QTNF3, CDK9, TMEM200C, FHOD1 and ZZZ3 impacting TIL infiltration and clinical response. RNA-seq showed that responding lesions were enriched for inflammatory and tumor-specific programs, displayed enrichment of T-cell activation transcripts and had reduced infiltration of cancer-associated fibroblasts. TCR sequencing confirmed the robust infiltration of TIL-derived CD8+ clonotypes, while functional assays demonstrated a polyclonal recognition of patient-derived somatic mutations and cytotoxicity against autologous tumor lines. Single-cell TCR mapping further validated the dominance of tumor-specific CD8+ clonotypes in responding lesions. This case demonstrates the feasibility and immunological activity of TIL therapy in PDAC, while underscoring the impact of spatial tumor heterogeneity on therapeutic outcomes.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The synthesis of glycerolipid is essential to prevent the toxic effects of excess fatty acids. Glycerolipids are generated by the sequential attachment of acyl-CoA to glycerol by endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-localized acyltransferases, ultimately yielding non-toxic triacylglycerol that can be stored in lipid droplets. The key acyltransferase GPAT4 associates with the CHP1 protein, but the regulation of GPAT4 remains poorly understood. Here, we have used genetic, biochemical, and imaging techniques to identify TMEM120A as GPAT4-activating protein. We show that ER-localized TMEM120A and CHP1 synergistically activate GPAT4 and promote the incorporation of medium and long chain acyl-CoA into glycerolipid. C. elegans mutants of TMEM120A or CHP1 ortholog are susceptible to high-fat diet induced sterility, in part due to their deficiency in lipid droplet expansion. In mammalian cells, fatty acid supplementation and myristoylated CHP1 enhance the association of TMEM120A with GPAT4. Together, our results reveal an unexpected mechanism that alleviates lipotoxicity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41967766 is a review article
The BBSome, an eight-protein complex implicated in Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS), plays a crucial role in various cellular processes including ciliary function. Although important aspects of its structural organization and protein interactions have been elucidated, additional questions remain regarding how these features relate to cargo recognition and complex dynamics. Using AlphaFold3, we generated a structural model closely matching recent cryo-EM data (α-carbon root means square deviation: 1.203 Å). Interface residue analysis of the model identified BBSome proteins BBS1 and BBS9 as central interaction hubs (most interface residues between two proteins), with BBS2 and BBS7 showing the most polar contacts. The common BBS1M390R pathogenic mutation, known to cause BBS, was predicted to destabilize the complex. BBS4 was also found to interact stably with pericentriolar material 1, suggesting a role in centriolar satellite localization. AlphaFold3-mediated analysis of BBSome interactions with G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) led to the identification of contact hotspots on BBS1, BBS4, and BBS5. These predictions were supported by immunoprecipitation and peptide competition assays. The modeling also suggested plausible interfaces between specific BBS proteins and metabolic signaling proteins, including melanocortin receptor accessory protein 2 (MRAP2) [an melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) chaperonin], the leptin receptor, and the insulin receptor. These predicted interfaces align with previously reported biochemical associations between BBS proteins and these receptors, supporting the idea that the BBSome regulates trafficking and signaling in metabolic pathways. Together, these findings provide new insights into BBSome structure and receptor interactions, offering a predictive framework to explore its role in ciliary trafficking and human disease.NEW & NOTEWORTHY This study combines AI modeling and experimental validation to define key structural features and receptor interactions of the BBSome complex. The analysis identifies BBS1 and BBS9 as central hubs, reveals how the BBS1M390R mutation destabilizes the complex, and uncovers novel contacts with various receptors including those involved in metabolic regulation. These findings provide a predictive framework linking BBSome structure to ciliary signaling and metabolic regulation in Bardet-Biedl syndrome.
Myogenesis is a tightly regulated process by a cascade of well-coordinated events and pathways. Other than the known myogenic regulator factor (MRF) family including Myf5, MyoD, Myogenin and MRF4, our previous study identified BAMBI is involved in muscle regeneration and siRNA-mediated BAMBI knockdown impairs C2C12 myoblast differentiation. However, the potential role of BAMBI in determining cell linage and fate specification in C2C12 myoblast remains unexplored. In this study, we analyzed the RNA-seq data and discovered that BAMBI expression was dynamically regulated during proliferation and differentiation period of C2C12 myoblasts. By establishing cell line with the loss of function and gain of function of BAMBI in C2C12 myoblasts, we demonstrated that BAMBI deletion totally abrogated myogenic differentiation of C2C12 myoblast cells. In addition, loss of BAMBI converts C2C12 myoblasts to brown adipocytes through downregulation MyoD and upregulation of Prdm16. Conversely, BAMBI overexpression strikingly enhanced myogenic differentiation of C2C12 myoblasts by upregulating MyoD expression. Taken together, our results establish that BAMBI is a vital myogenic factor involved in myoblasts differentiation and as a key regulator governing the balance between myogenic and adipogenic lineage in C2C12 myoblast cells.© the author(s).
One of the key regulatory mechanisms in adipose biology is the NAD+/SIRT axis, which is disrupted in conditions such as obesity and insulin resistance. In recent years, increasing attention has been directed toward understanding the role of NAD+ in adipose biology, including through gene expression analyses. However, most published studies have focused on a limited set of preselected genes, and an integrated analysis of genes associated with NAD+ alterations in adipose tissue is lacking. The aim of this study was to conduct a systematic literature search to identify rodent studies reporting significant modulation of NAD+ levels in adipose tissue, along with significant changes in gene expression within the same adipose depot. The extracted genes were then subjected to integrative functional bioinformatic analyses to identify significantly enriched canonical pathways, protein-protein interactions, master regulators, and associations with human diseases. We identified 17 studies, from which 113 unique NAD+-associated protein coding genes were extracted. Pathway enrichment analysis revealed multiple canonical pathways significantly associated with these genes, including thermogenesis, the PPAR signaling pathway, the AMPK signaling pathway, and adipogenesis. In addition, several cellular pathways were identified for which direct experimental evidence of NAD+ involvement is currently lacking, such as the apelin signaling pathway and the relaxin signaling pathway. Protein-protein interaction analysis revealed three distinct protein clusters related to positive regulation of cold-induced thermogenesis, inflammation, and cellular respiration. Master regulator analysis identified several well-established regulators, such as leptin, PRDM16, PPARGC1A, AMP, glucose, fructose, and rosiglitazone, as well as regulators that have not yet been directly investigated in the context of NAD+ function in adipose biology. Finally, analysis of disease associations of NAD+-associated protein coding genes revealed links to nutritional and cardiometabolic diseases. In conclusion, this study highlights both well-established and previously unexplored canonical pathways and regulators of biological processes associated with the role of NAD+ in adipose biology, thereby identifying potential targets for future experimental investigation. Additionally, our systematic literature search revealed a notable lack of studies employing global transcriptomic approaches, as well as multi-omics studies with coupled bioinformatic analyses, which are essential for obtaining an in-depth and comprehensive understanding of the role of NAD+ in adipose biology.Copyright © 2026 Postolov, Milenkovic and Ruskovska.
To explore the genetic characteristics and clinical efficacy of pediatric acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with NUP98∷KDM5A fusion gene positive.The laboratory and clinical characteristics of 10 NUP98∷KDM5A-positive pediatric AML patients identified by transcriptome sequencing (RNA-seq) were retrospectively analyzed during the period from March 2018 to March 2024 at Hebei Yanda Ludaopei Hospital and Beijing Ludaopei Hospital. Survival curves were plotted using the Kaplan-Meier method, and the 1-year overall survival and cumulative recurrence rates were calculated.The median onset age of the 10 patients was 2(1-4) years, with a male to female ratio of 3∶7. All patients presented with thrombocytopenia, skin ecchymosis, and/or scattered petechiae as the main clinical manifestations. According to the FAB classification, 7 cases were diagnosed as AML-M7, 2 as AML-M5, and 1 as AML-M2. Cytogenetic analysis showed that 8 pediatric patients exhibited structural abnormalities involving chromosome 13 at initial diagnosis, relapse, or post-transplant relapse, and mainly manifested as del(13q). RNA-seq results showed that 9 patients had a fusion of NUP98 exon 13 with KDM5A exon 27, and 1 patient had a fusion of NUP98 exon 13 with KDM5A exon 25. Expression levels of MECOM and PRDM16 genes in the patient group were significantly higher than in the normal control group (P <0.05). Among co-occurring genetic mutations, JAK2 gene mutations exhibited the highest frequency of occurrence (40%). All patients underwent allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT), with 7 in complete remission (CR) and 3 in partial remission (PR)/non-remission (NR) before transplantation. The median follow-up time was 5.8 (2.5-23.7) months. During the follow-up period, 3 patients survived and 7 died, among which 6 died from relapse and 1 died from acute graft-versus-host disease of the gut post-transplantation. The median survival time post-transplantation was 7.8 months (95%CI : 0.8-14.8 months), the median relapse time was 5.5 months (95%CI : 0-11.7 months), the 1-year overall survival rate was 34.3%, and cumulative relapse rate was 55%.Pediatric AML with the NUP98∷KDM5A fusion gene is more common in the M7 subtype, predominantly in females, and is often associated with chromosome 13 abnormalities and a higher rate of JAK2 mutations. Allo-HSCT can partially improve the prognosis of pediatric AML positive for NUP98∷KDM5A, but the relapse rate is high, and relapse is a significant factor affecting patient survival.
VTRNA2-1 is a metastable epiallele whose methylation is associated with metabolic homeostasis via PKR-mediated inflammation and adipocyte function. We aimed to determine whether preoperative VTRNA2-1 promoter methylation in peripheral blood predicts long-term excess weight loss (%EWL) after bariatric surgery. We explored transcriptional signatures in adipose tissue to clarify the relationship between early-life epigenetic imprinting on adult metabolic plasticity and surgical outcomes in patients with severe obesity.In the OCEAN prospective registry (2011-2024), 179 adults underwent bariatric surgery. Peripheral blood DNA VTRNA2-1 methylation was classified as hypo-, intermediate, or hyper-methylated. %EWL was recorded at 3, 6, 12, and 24 months. Adipose tissue was assayed for IL13, PRDM16, and related transcripts.VTRNA2-1 methylation showed a bimodal distribution, differing significantly from controls (p = 0.002). Hypermethylated patients had lower VTRNA2-1 expression (p < 0.001) and greater %EWL at 12 (67.8% ± 19.1% vs. 61.8% ± 17.5%; p = 0.047) and 24 months (68.7% ± 21.9% vs. 60.4% ± 19.3%; p = 0.040). The hypomethylated group maintained a stable weight loss plateau between 12 and 24 months. Hypomethylation was associated with nominally higher IL13 and PRDM16 mRNA in adipose tissue (exploratory; uncorrected p < 0.05).VTRNA2-1 methylation status is associated with predictable variations and offers potential for preoperative risk stratification and personalized therapeutic strategies in managing severe obesity.© 2026 The Obesity Society.
Thermogenic programming of adipocytes represents a promising strategy to enhance energy expenditure; however, most pharmacological browning agents activate PPARγ, which simultaneously promotes lipid accumulation and adipocyte hypertrophy. This study aimed to investigate whether dieckol induces thermogenic markers during adipocyte differentiation under conditions of restrained adipogenic commitment and to elucidate the involvement of MAPK and Nrf2 signaling pathways. 3T3-L1 preadipocytes were differentiated in the presence of dieckol (5-25 µM). Lipid accumulation, lipolytic activity, and intracellular reactive oxygen species were assessed using Oil Red O staining, enzymatic assays, and fluorescence analysis. Protein expression and signaling pathway activation were evaluated by Western blotting using pharmacological inhibitors of ERK1/2 (PD98059) and p38 MAPK (SB203580). Dieckol increased the expression of PRDM16, PGC-1α, and UCP1 while concurrently suppressing PPARγ, C/EBPα, and lipogenic marker expression, resulting in reduced intracellular triglyceride and cholesterol accumulation. Dieckol also enhanced lipolytic signaling and glycerol release, activated ERK1/2- and p38-dependent MAPK signaling, and promoted nuclear translocation of Nrf2 with increased activities of SOD, GPx, and CAT. Inhibition of MAPK signaling, particularly ERK1/2, attenuated dieckol-induced thermogenesis-associated modulation and lipid metabolic regulation. In conclusion, dieckol promotes thermogenic markers in differentiating 3T3-L1 adipocytes through coordinated ERK/p38 MAPK and Nrf2 signaling, enhancing UCP1 expression and lipolysis while suppressing lipid accumulation and adipogenic markers.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to University of Navarra.
Obesity is a major risk factor for type 2 diabetes. Some traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) compounds can improve obesity by increasing energy consumption. This study aimed to identify and verify TCM compounds that promote adipose thermogenesis to alleviate obesity via transcriptomic analysis, molecular docking, network pharmacology, and Connectivity Map (CMap) analysis. Thirty-six TCMs related to adipose tissue thermogenesis were first collected to generate transcriptomic data. Then a ranking method based on integrated transcriptomic data was used to select emodin from the TCM Da Huang for network pharmacology to explore its potential mechanisms and further experimental validation. CMap analysis of thermogenesis signature genes from ProFAT and GEO datasets identified triptolide as another compound for improving obesity through enhanced thermogenesis. In vitro experiments with 3T3-L1 cells and in vivo experiments with zebrafish were conducted. The results showed that both emodin and triptolide could upregulate the NAD+/NADH ratio, increase AMPK and SIRT1 expression, suppress lipid accumulation, and promote lipolysis, as verified by both in vitro and in vivo experiments. They also upregulated thermogenesis-related genes (e.g., UCP1, PGC1α, and PRDM16), lipolysis-related genes (e.g., PKA, ATGL, and HSL), mitochondrial biogenesis-related genes (e.g., NRF1, NRF2, and TFAM), and β-oxidation-related genes (e.g., CPT1α and CPT1β). Meanwhile, they downregulated lipogenesis-related genes such as FASN, SREBP1, and ACC. These results provide a basis for understanding the effects of emodin and triptolide on obesity. The findings highlight the effectiveness of combined screening approaches in exploring compounds with beneficial metabolic effects.© 2026 The Author(s). Phytotherapy Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Haploinsufficiency of SKI, PRDM16, RERE, PAX7, and GRHL3 have been implicated in the development of orofacial clefting (OFC) associated with chromosome 1p36 deletions based on human and/or mouse data. Haploinsufficiency of SPEN, a 1p36 gene that encodes a transcriptional repressor, causes Radio-Tartaglia syndrome, a neurodevelopmental syndrome in which high/narrow palates are common, and OFC is occasionally observed. We show that Spen-null embryos have abnormal palatal shelf elevation and extension leading to the development of cleft palate. Mesenchymal cell proliferation in the medial halves of the palatal shelves of Spen-null embryos at E13.5 is significantly reduced. This contributes to the delay of palatal shelf elevation. Tissue specific ablation of Spen in the cranial neural crest cells results in delayed palatal development. This pattern of abnormal palatal development mimics the pattern described in RERE-deficient mice. We show that Rere and Spen are expressed in same cell types, that Rere and Spen interact genetically in the development of the palate, that Spen expression is reduced in the palates of RERE-deficient embryos at E14.5, and that the rate of OFC in individuals with 1p36 deletions involving both RERE and SPEN is higher than those of individuals with RERE or SPEN haploinsufficiency. Our results suggest that SPEN is required for normal mammalian palatal development, that RERE and SPEN interact in a common pathway during palatal development, and that haploinsufficiency of RERE and SPEN are likely to contribute to the development of OFC in individuals with 1p36 deletions.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42455436 is a review article
EHMT1 and EHMT2 encode histone methyltransferases that form an epigenetic complex mediating mono- and dimethylation of histone H3 at lysine 9 (H3K9me1/2). This complex modulates fundamental biological processes during embryonic and post-natal development. While EHMT1 has an established role in neurodevelopmental disease, with heterozygous pathogenic variants causing Kleefstra syndrome type 1 (KS1), the contribution of EHMT2 to neurodevelopmental disorders remains to be established. To date, seven probands harboring de novo heterozygous EHMT2 variants and one individual with a homozygous splice variant have been reported, all presenting with phenotypes and DNA methylation episignatures overlapping with KS1.A male proband was referred for Genetics evaluation due to global developmental delay, autism spectrum disorder, hypotonia, dysmorphisms, posterior fossa malformation, congenital heart disease, umbilical hernia, and genitourinary anomalies. Trio genome sequencing identified compound heterozygous variants in EHMT2 (NM_006709.5:c.2648_2649del; p.(Glu883Glyfs*48), paternally inherited; NM_006709.5:c.2344-19_2344-16del; r.spl, maternally inherited). DNA methylation episignature profiling and RNA-sequencing were performed to assess the molecular consequences of these EHMT2 variants.Proband phenotype strongly overlapped with that of KS1 and previously reported individuals with autosomal dominant and recessive EHMT2-related neurodevelopmental disorder. DNA methylation episignature was consistent with KS1. Transcripts bearing the paternally inherited EHMT2 frameshift variant were under-represented in the RNA-sequencing data, likely reflecting partial nonsense-mediated decay. The maternally inherited EHMT2 variant causes multiple aberrant splicing events in a subset of transcripts (∼25%), including retention of 291 nucleotides from intron 18, which generates a nonsense variant in the canonical EHMT2 transcript.Our findings support a role for EHMT2 in an autosomal recessive neurodevelopmental disorder and allowed anticipatory guidance for the patient's family.Copyright © 2026 Rots, de Oliveira, Carvalho, Zhao, Sadikovic, Sim, Rigobello, Tedder, Donoghue, Maripuri, Hnizda, Barr, Fletcher, Noskova, Li, Kleefstra, Zackai, Barrero, Krepischi and Strong.
In utero heat stress (IUHS) is associated with long-term alterations in offspring performance, physiology, and metabolism, but whether epigenetic mechanisms are a causal effect in pigs remains poorly understood. In this study, we compared genome-wide DNA methylation in the Longissimus dorsi muscle of 105-day-old pigs exposed to either in utero thermoneutral (IUTN) or IUHS conditions during early gestation (d 0 to 59 of gestation) to identify differentially methylated loci and genomic regions, as well as candidate genes potentially involved in the skeletal muscle response to prenatal heat exposure. Whole-genome bisulfite sequencing was performed in 10 IUHS and 10 IUTN pigs, with reads aligned and processed using the Bismark package, and differential methylation was analyzed using the methylKit R package. Differential methylation analyses enabled the identification of both loci and genomic regions located near or within genes such as ARID1B, DUSP4, SMPD3, and OSBPL8, which are involved in lipid metabolism, inflammatory responses, and cellular stress signaling. These findings suggest that prenatal heat stress induces persistent locus-specific epigenetic remodeling that remains detectable in the Longissimus dorsi muscle of offspring at 105 days of age. Overall, this study provides new insights on how the prenatal environment may shape the skeletal muscle epigenome and potentially contribute to long-term phenotypic consequences in pigs.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lung cancer (LC) is a leading cause of cancer-related death. Microwave ablation (MWA) is a promising local therapy, but its impact on systemic immunity remains unclear.In this exploratory pilot study, paired peripheral blood samples from two LC patients pre- and post-MWA were analyzed by single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq). Cell composition, functional states, and intercellular communication were investigated. The expression levels of cytotoxic factors including GZMB, TNF-α, and IFN-γ in CD8+ T cells derived from PBMCs were determined via RT-qPCR and ELISA assays.scRNA-seq identified 9 immune cell types. Post-MWA, monocytes and NKT cells increased. Functional changes included enhanced T cell cytotoxicity, activated pro-inflammatory monocytes, and anti-tumor neutrophil differentiation. Cell communication analysis highlighted enriched LGALS9-CD45 and RETN-CAP1 interactions between T cells and monocytes/neutrophils. In vitro cellular assays revealed that the expression of cytotoxic factors (GZMB, TNF-α, and IFN-γ) in CD8+ T cells was significantly upregulated following MWA treatment.This pilot study provides preliminary single-cell evidence suggesting how MWA remodels the immune landscape in LC, however, these findings require further validation in larger cohorts.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Resistance to epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) represents a major clinical challenge in the management of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Chromosome 4q12 locus is an important gene locus associated with progression-free survival (PFS) in NSCLC patients receiving EGFR-TKIs therapy. However, it remains poorly characterized how genes at this locus function in NSCLC development and resistance to EGFR-TKIs. Here, we found that CLOCK at this locus is highly expressed in NSCLC tissues and correlates with unfavorable PFS of patients. CLOCK promotes malignant proliferation and metastasis of NSCLC in vitro and in vivo. CLOCK could attenuate treatment efficacies of gefitinib (one of the first-generation EGFR-TKIs) or osimertinib (one of the third-generation EGFR-TKIs). Mechanistically, CLOCK functions as a transcriptional factor to upregulate LAMC2 transcription and expression in NSCLC cells. There was significantly elevated LAMC2 expressed in NSCLC tissues and its high levels were associated with shortened survival of patients. Indeed, CLOCK could activate multiple kinase signaling pathways, such as the PI3K-Akt signaling and the MAPK signaling, by facilitating either the LAMC2-ITGB1 interaction and the LAMC2-EGFR interaction and thereby accelerating NSCLC proliferation and conferring EGFR-TKI resistance. Collectively, these findings for the first time identify CLOCK as a critical mediator of EGFR-TKIs resistance and a promising target to overcome EGFR-TKIs resistance in NSCLC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Early-onset colorectal cancer (EOCRC) is increasing disproportionately among Hispanic/Latino (H/L) populations and demonstrates substantial molecular and clinical heterogeneity. Although Wingless/Integrated (WNT) pathway alterations are among the most common genomic events in colorectal cancer, their prognostic significance in the context of contemporary systemic therapies, including Bevacizumab, remains incompletely understood. We conducted an integrative clinical-genomic analysis of colorectal cancer cohorts stratified by age at diagnosis, ancestry, and Bevacizumab exposure, interrogating somatic alterations across curated WNT signaling pathway genes. Conversational artificial intelligence agents (AI-HOPE and AI-HOPE-WNT) enabled dynamic cohort construction, treatment-specific subgroup analyses, and pathway-level interrogation through natural language-driven clinical-genomic integration. WNT pathway alterations, predominantly involving APC, were highly prevalent across all cohorts; however, their distribution and clinical associations demonstrated strong treatment-, ancestry-, and age-dependent variability. Bevacizumab-treated tumors exhibited lower mutation frequencies in several WNT regulators, including RNF43, AXIN1/2, TCF7L2, and AMER1, suggesting potential biologic interaction or treatment-related selective pressure. Importantly, WNT pathway alterations were associated with improved overall survival in H/L EOCRC and Non-Hispanic White (NHW) late-onset colorectal cancer, but with worse survival in NHW EOCRC, highlighting distinct ancestry- and age-specific prognostic effects. These findings support the role of the WNT pathway dysregulation as a disparity-aware biomarker framework in colorectal cancer and demonstrate the utility of conversational AI systems for scalable multidimensional clinical-genomic integration in precision oncology.
Exposure to Di-n-butyl phthalate (DBP) is associated with congenital and acquired defects in the male reproductive system, and DBP-induced oxidative stress plays a critical role in this process. The activation of the Nrf2 antioxidant pathway plays a protective role and its ubiquitin-dependent degradation is well-established. However, the role of Nrf2 SUMOylation remains unclear. This study investigated whether the de-SUMOylating enzyme SENP2 regulates the Nrf2 pathway and mediates DBP-induced damage in Leydig cells. In both DBP-exposed rat testes and TM3 cells, SENP2 expression was significantly downregulated. Molecular assays, including Ni2+-NTA pull-down and co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP), confirmed that Nrf2 is modified by SUMO2/3 at lysine 533 and that SENP2 mediates its de-SUMOylation. Gain- and loss-of-function assays in TM3 cells showed that SENP2 knockdown activated the Nrf2 pathway, facilitated Nrf2 nuclear translocation, upregulated downstream antioxidant proteins, lowered intracellular ROS levels, and partially rescued DBP-impaired testosterone secretion. Conversely, SENP2 overexpression suppressed Nrf2 activity and nuclear translocation, and exacerbated oxidative damage and secretory dysfunction. These findings indicate that SENP2 participates in DBP-induced Leydig cell oxidative injury by modulating the de-SUMOylation of Nrf2. This study provides novel insights into the post-translational regulation of Nrf2 in environmental toxicant-induced reproductive injury, identifying the SENP2/Nrf2 axis as a potential target for intervention.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental disorder with an unclear pathogenesis. Growing evidence implicates excitatory/inhibitory (E/I) imbalance in ASD pathophysiology, prompting an investigation into gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-mediated inhibitory transmission. The transcription factor Paired Box 2 (Pax2), essential for GABAergic interneuron specification, participates in the regulation of neural developmental processes. Our previous work demonstrated an E/I imbalance in the neurotransmitter system and reduced GABAARα2-positive neurons in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) of Pax2 neuron-specific deletion mice, though the internal molecular regulatory mechanism remained elusive. In this study, we generated GABAergic neuron-specific Pax2 knockdown mice via injection of AAV-shPax2 virus and comprehensively evaluated ASD-related behaviors, revealing autism-like behaviors, such as impaired social novelty and repetitive behaviors. Molecular analysis revealed upregulation of Tcf7l2, a key downstream mediator of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. Functional assessment confirmed hyperactivation of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway in GABAergic neuron Pax2 knockdown mice. Notably, pharmacological intervention with esculetin, an inhibitor of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway, ameliorated the observed autism-like behaviors. These findings establish a pathogenic axis wherein GABAergic neuron-specific Pax2 deficiency induces hyperactivation of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway and disrupts E/I balance, ultimately driving autism-like behavioral phenotypes. Our results further identify inhibition of Wnt/β-catenin signaling as a promising therapeutic strategy for ASD.Copyright © 2026 International Brain Research Organization (IBRO). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) has a high global prevalence and arises from complex interactions between genetic predisposition and environmental factors. GDM is associated with metabolic disturbances and chronic low-grade inflammation, both of which contribute to its pathogenesis. This study aimed to investigate the association between GDM and 135 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) across 20 genes related to metabolic traits.In this case-control study, 152 pregnant women with GDM and 684 pregnant women with normal glucose tolerance (NGT) who underwent antenatal examination at Siriraj Hospital, Bangkok, were enrolled. Clinical data and blood samples were collected from all participants. Genomic DNA was isolated and subjected to whole-genome sequencing using the DNBSEQ-T7RS high-throughput sequencing platform. Genotype analyses were performed using R software, and haplotype analyses were conducted using the online SNPStats software.After adjusting for maternal age and pre-pregnancy body mass index, polymorphisms in TCF7L2 (rs34872471, rs7901695, rs4506565, rs7903146, rs12243326, and rs12255372), NEDD1 (rs10431408, rs11830756, rs249579, rs249585, and rs4762339), CMIP (rs2306115 and rs201681534), CDKAL1 (rs4710942), GCKR (rs2293572 and rs2293571), and GCK (rs5883890) were significantly associated with the risk of GDM. Haplotype analysis demonstrated that the TCF7L2 rs12243326-rs12255372 CA haplotype was associated with a decreased risk of GDM (OR = 0.44, 95% CI: 0.23-0.81), while the NEDD1 rs249579-rs249585-rs4762339 GGT haplotype was associated with an increased risk of GDM (OR = 1.40, 95% CI: 1.08-1.82).These findings suggest that genetic variations in TCF7L2, NEDD1, CMIP, CDKAL1, GCK, and GCKR contribute to GDM susceptibility in the Thai population.
Immunotherapy has demonstrated outstanding therapeutic success in solid cancers by regulating immunity through immunological components in the tumor microenvironment. However, the immunological phenotypes and immunosuppressive processes in glioblastoma (GBM) remain unknown.The relative abundance of immune cells was determined, which was used to classify 167 GBM samples into high- and low-immune subtypes with ssGSEA analysis. Differentially expressed immune-related genes (DE-IRGs) were determined between these two immune subtypes, which were used for gene oncology, pathway network, survival, and nonnegative matrix factorization cluster analyses. Survival-related DE-IRGs was used to create DE-IRG signature with LASSO regression. DE-IRG signature-based risk score was calculated for determing high- and low-risk score groups. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were determined between high-and low-risk score groups, which were used for WGCNA coexpression gene modules analysis. A ggalluvial plot was used to examine the cross-talk between the LASSO groups and NMF clusters. Furthermore, DE-IRGs data were integrated with quantitative proteomics data of human GBMs to obtain key molecules, followed by functional analysis of key molecule in GBM cell models.A total of 115 DE-IRGs were identified in high- vs. low-immune subtypes in GBM. These DE-IRGs were mapped into 6 KEGG pathways, 88 important biological processes, and 25 important molecular functions. Seven DE-IRG prognostic signatures (GBX1, PF4V1, RETN, SOAT2, SUMO1P1, TNS4, and TTC22) based on DE-IRGs were generated via LASSO regression to identify GBM samples as high- or low-risk score groups. This signature was closely correlated with overall survival, clinical characteristics, immune cells, immunological scores, immune checkpoints, tumor mutation burden, gene mutations, and drug sensitivity in GBM patients. The LASSO groups had a substantial correlation with three NMF-based unique clusters in GBM, and a WGCNA of 452 DEGs was performed to distinguish high- and low-risk score groups. Furthermore, integrative analysis of 115 DE-IRGs and 608 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) found a overlapped molecule C4BPA that promoted the phenotype of GBM tumor cells.This study provided the complete IRG landscape and distribution of tumor microenvironment cells in GBM, which are promising indicators of prognosis and survival, and have the potential to monitor treatment schedules.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42459212 is a review article
Rs9939609 marker in FTO Alpha-Ketoglutarate-Dependent Dioxygenase (FTO) gene, rs7895307 in Transcription Factor 7-Like 2 (TCF7L2) gene, and rs75493593 in Solute Carrier Family 16 Member 11 (SLC16A11) gene have been associated with anthropometric, metabolic, and clinical variables, but have not been concurrently studied in Mexican children and adolescents with adiposity or mental disorders. In this cross-sectional association study, we genotyped these markers by means of TaqMan real-time polymerase chain reaction in two at-risk pediatric cohorts recruited in Mexico City. Group 1 (n = 175) comprised children and adolescents with overweight/obesity. Group 2 (n = 296) consisted of non-medicated adolescents meeting the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, fourth edition criteria for Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder or a mood disorder. Anthropometric measurements (body mass index -BMI-, waist circumference, body fat percentage), metabolic indices (fasting glucose, lipid profile, Homeostatic Model Assessment for Insulin Resistance), and psychiatric diagnoses were evaluated. In Group 1, the FTO A allele (genotypes AA/AT) was significantly associated with severe obesity according to BMI Z scores (p = 0.004, O.R. 3.33, 95% CI [1.42-7.77]), and it was a predictor of waist circumference (B = 6.16, 95% CI [1.78-10.55], p = 0.006) and muscle percentage (B = 4.21%, 95% CI [0.91-7.51%], p = 0.013) using linear regression models adjusted for age and sex. In Group 2, TCF7L2 AA genotype was associated with increased odds of depression (B = 0.83, p = 0.003, OR = 2.29, 95% CI [1.32-3.96]). While SLC16A11 G allele showed a possible association with insulin resistance or glucose levels, confirmation is needed. These exploratory results highlight the need for larger, well characterized cohort studies to confirm the associations.
Feed efficiency (FE) is recognized as a vital component of sustainable dairy production, with residual feed intake (RFI) serving as a key metabolic indicator of FE independent of production levels. However, the genetic improvement of this complex trait is limited by the inability of conventional genomic Best Linear Unbiased Prediction (gBLUP) model to capture complex, non-linear genetic architectures and epistatic interactions. To address these limitations, this study aims to compare the predictive performance of machine learning (ML) approaches, specifically Random Forest (RF) and Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP) models, against standard gBLUP using genomic data from 220 UK Holstein cows genotyped with the BovineSNP50 v3 BeadChip with 47,446 quality-controlled single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), phenotyped for RFI from 1996-2023. SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) were applied to interpret SNP feature importance from the ML models, and an ensemble framework was implemented to leverage the complementary strengths of RF and MLP.While the gBLUP model exhibited moderate predictive performance, the RF model demonstrated greater stability and accuracy compared to gBLUP, and the MLP showed higher variance across random states. The ensemble framework achieved the highest coefficient of determination (R2 = 0.39) and lowest root mean squared error (RMSE = 0.086). SHAP interpretability analysis revealed distinct genomic architectures between the models. The RF model prioritized genes regulating mitochondrial oxidation and immune surveillance, including SKINT1 and PPARGC1A, whereas the MLP model identified genes involved in lipid metabolism and fat storage, including APCDD1 and ADIPOR1. A convergence of biological signals was observed between the models, with nine common SNPs and 32 consensus genes identified, including ACOD1, CNTNAP2, and core spliceosomal snRNAs.These results suggest that the genetic architecture of RFI may be explored by ML methods as they offer flexibility in mapping non-additive genetic effects. The reliability of genomic predictions for complex traits was enhanced when complementary computational strategies were leveraged in an ensemble framework, providing a focused set of candidate genes for future experimental validation. Whilst exploratory gene networks require validation in larger cohorts, the ensemble ML framework presented here offers an interpretable approach for dissecting the genetic architecture of complex production traits in livestock.© 2026. Crown.
Exposure to fine particulate matter (PM2.5) is linked to metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD), yet responsible chemical constituents and the biological basis of susceptibility remain unclear, limiting source-targeted regulation and precision prevention in vulnerable populations. We examined PM2.5 components - liver outcomes associations in youth, assessed susceptibility by PNPLA3 genotype (the strongest known MASLD genetic determinant), and evaluated genotype-specific metabolic mediation in two independent cohorts.Baseline data from 113 Los Angeles Latino adolescents with obesity (discovery cohort) were analyzed, including magnetic resonance imaging-measured hepatic fat fraction (HFF), liver stiffness (LS), and serum metabolomics and lipidomics. Visit-year average exposures to 15 PM2.5 components were estimated from residential addresses. Linear regression and g-computation assessed individual component and mixture effects, with PNPLA3 genotype as modifier. Moderated mediation analyses identified metabolic mediators, followed by pathway enrichment and total mediation effect estimation. Findings were replicated in 81 young adults of mixed race/ethnicity and body mass index (replication cohort) using level 1 metabolites confirmed by authentic standards.PM2.5 components and mixture were predominantly positively associated with HFF and LS; simultaneous interquartile range increases in all components were associated with 10.0% higher HFF. Elemental carbon (EC), bromine (Br), copper, potassium, and lead were key contributors. Stronger effects were observed in PNPLA3 GG carriers. GG carriers exhibited more mediating metabolite features (n = 550 vs. 196), with broader pathway enrichment in carbohydrate, lipid, and amino acid metabolism, and signaling/endocrine pathways. Significant total mediation effects were observed exclusively in GG carriers. Replication confirmed GG-specific associations of EC, Br with HFF, and identified increased fatty acid 16:1, and decreased guanidinosuccinate, proline as candidate mediators.PM2.5 components potentially indicative of combustion and traffic sources (i.e. EC, Br) increase MASLD risk in youth via metabolic pathways, with genotype-specific responses likely heightening susceptibility in PNPLA3 GG carriers.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Mild thermal stimulation enhances skeletal muscle differentiation; however, its underlying metabolic basis remains unclear. Here, we demonstrate that thermal stimulation promotes myogenic differentiation through enhanced glucose uptake and transient lipid droplet (LD) accumulation in C2C12 myoblasts. Thermal stimulation at 39 °C induced a transient increase in LD formation during early differentiation. Early transient LD accumulation, particularly on days 1 and 2, was positively correlated with the day 5 fusion index, suggesting that early LD formation is associated with subsequent myogenic differentiation. Suppression of LD formation by Plin2 knockdown impaired myotube formation, indicating that LD formation is functionally required for myogenic differentiation. Thermal stimulation enhanced glucose uptake, accompanied by increased Slc2a4 and Ppargc1a expression and increased GLUT4 fluorescence intensity. Moreover, higher glucose availability further supported LD formation and myogenic differentiation even under serum-free conditions. Notably, mitochondrial mass, ATP content, and oxidative capacity remained largely unchanged, suggesting that enhanced glucose uptake is associated with LD accumulation without a corresponding increase in mitochondrial oxidative capacity. These findings identify transient LD formation as a key metabolic event driving myogenic differentiation under thermal stimulation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Preterm birth (PTB), defined as delivery before 37 weeks, is a major cause of neonatal morbidity and mortality worldwide. Evidence suggests that both epigenetic dysregulation and gut microbial imbalance contribute to the inflammatory and metabolic disturbances associated with PTB; however, few studies have examined these factors in conjunction to identify integrated predictive biomarkers.This study aimed to identify epigenetic and microbial signatures associated with PTB by integrating maternal second-trimester genome-wide DNA methylation profiles with gut microbiome composition.A case-control study was conducted with 120 pregnant women, grouped into two categories: preterm (≤37 weeks, n = 60) and full-term (>37 weeks, n = 60). Maternal blood and fecal samples were collected simultaneously. DNA methylation was profiled using the Illumina MethylationEPIC array, and gut microbiota were characterized through 16S rRNA sequencing. Differentially methylated regions (DMRs) and differentially abundant taxa were identified using FDR < 0.05. Sparse canonical correlation analysis and network modeling were applied to integrate the datasets and identify linked epigenetic-microbial features predictive of PTB.Women with PTB showed distinct methylation changes in immune and inflammation-related genes, including IL6, CXCL10, TNFAIP3, and PPARGC1A. Gut microbiome analysis revealed significantly reduced α-diversity (Shannon index: 2.81 ± 0.31 vs. 3.42 ± 0.36, p = 0.002), enrichment of pro-inflammatory taxa (Prevotella, Sutterella, Veillonella), and depletion of beneficial genera, including Lachnospiraceae, Faecalibacterium, and Bifidobacterium. Integrated analysis showed strong cross-domain associations (r = 0.68, p < 0.001), linking immune-gene hypomethylation with enrichment of inflammatory taxa. The combined biomarker panel achieved high predictive performance (AUC = 0.87; sensitivity = 82%; specificity = 84%), outperforming methylation-only and microbiome-only models. Functional enrichment highlighted convergence on NF-κB signaling, cytokine interactions, and butyrate metabolism.The study shows that coordinated epigenetic alterations and gut microbial dysbiosis contribute to PTB. These biomarkers are detectable during the second trimester (18-24 weeks), supporting their potential for mid-pregnancy risk stratification. The integrated methylation-microbiome signature offers strong potential for early, non-invasive prediction and supports development of targeted maternal interventions.Copyright © 2026 Huang and Cai.
Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) are key components of the tumor immune-suppressive microenvironment. However, studies focusing on the modulation of TAM-specific gene signatures to improve neuroblastoma (NB) prognosis are limited. MYCN amplification (MNA) is known to influence the immune landscape in neuroblastoma.Single-cell sequencing of 19 NB samples and transcriptome data from 498 NB samples were analyzed to identify macrophage-specific genes associated with poor NB prognosis. A risk signature was constructed by integrating differentially expressed genes (DEGs) related to TAMs and MYCN using univariate Cox regression, LASSO regression, and Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. Single-factor and multi-factor Cox regression analyses were conducted to explore the relationship between clinical characteristics and prognosis, and a nomogram was constructed. The impact of downregulating TAM target genes in macrophages was explored using CCK8, EdU incorporation, and Transwell assays.A signature based on five macrophage-related genes associated with NB prognosis (FCGR3A, ATF5, MTHFD2, HMGA1, and LY6E) was successfully established and validated for its strong prognostic predictive performance (AUC: 0.829). A clinically applicable Nomogram incorporating these genes was also developed. CCK-8 assays revealed a time-dependent inhibitory effect on neuroblastoma cell proliferation upon co-culture with MTHFD2-knockdown macrophages. EdU and Transwell assays showed that downregulation of MTHFD2 in macrophages significantly reduced the invasive and migratory capabilities of NB cells, particularly in MYCN-amplified cells.We developed and validated a five-gene signature based on TAM and MYCN-related genes with strong prognostic performance. Downregulation of MTHFD2 in macrophages reduced neuroblastoma cell proliferation, invasion, and migration, particularly in MYCN-amplified cells, highlighting MTHFD2 as a potential therapeutic target in high-risk patients.© 2026. The Author(s).
Mitochondrial dysfunction is a primary pathogenic mechanism underlying dopaminergic neuron loss in the nigrostriatal pathway in Parkinson's disease (PD). To investigate mitochondrion-targeted therapeutic strategies, we utilized the MitoPark mouse model, in which mitochondrial transcription factor A (Tfam) is selectively ablated in midbrain dopamine neurons, resulting in progressive neurodegeneration. We designed multifunctional lyotropic liquid crystalline nanoparticles (LCNPs) of the cubosome and hexosome types for noninvasive nose-to-brain delivery. These nanocarriers were engineered with lipids essential for membrane integrity (plasmalogens and ω-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs)) and a nonlamellar structural lipid (monoolein). They coencapsulated the neuroprotective antioxidants ginkgolide B and quercetin. To facilitate neuronal targeting and uptake, the surface of the LCNP was modified by conjugation with pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) and a rabies virus glycoprotein (RVG)-derived peptide-oleic acid (RVG-OL) conjugate. In vitro studies using differentiated SH-SY5Y cells subjected to oxidative stress demonstrated that the targeted LNPs enhanced cellular uptake and activated key neuroprotective signaling cascades, including AKT, ERK, and STAT3 phosphorylation. In vivo, intranasal administration of the optimized LNPs in MitoPark mice was associated with a trend toward the preservation of dopaminergic neuronal markers (such as tyrosine hydroxylase) and the regulation of mitochondrial-related proteins such as ATP5A1. Transcriptomic profiling revealed extensive molecular reprogramming. The peptide-functionalized LNPs upregulated genes enriched in mitochondrial biogenesis (Ppargc1a and Pink1) and survival (Bcl2) but downregulated the expression of neuroinflammatory mediators (Il6, Nos2, Myd88, and Trem2) and apoptotic effectors. These findings establish peptide-targeted, therapeutic lipid (plasmalogen/PUFA)-based nanoassemblies as a potent nonviral platform for noninvasive nose-to-brain delivery that may modulate mitochondrial- and neurodegeneration-related signaling pathways in a genetic model of PD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) has remained a highly aggressive endocrine malignancy characterized by extensive molecular heterogeneity and limited therapeutic options. In the present study, the regulatory significance of hsa-miR-940, hsa-miR-375, and hsa-miR-326, previously identified as central hubs within an ACC competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) network, was comprehensively characterized through integrative transcriptomic, prognostic, and pathway-level analyses using TCGA-ACC tumor samples. Network topology analysis, target prediction, survival modeling, pathway enrichment, protein-protein interaction analysis, therapeutic-response evaluation, and pan-cancer expression characterization were subsequently performed to investigate the biological relevance of these central miRNAs. Distinct network-topology differences were identified between tumor and normal ceRNA networks, with hsa-miR-940 demonstrating increased tumor-associated regulatory centrality, whereas hsa-miR-326 exhibited comparatively higher centrality within normal adrenal networks. Survival analyses further demonstrated that elevated expression of the combined three-miRNA signature was associated with significantly reduced overall survival in patients with ACC (HR = 3.52, p = 1.36E-03). Functional enrichment analyses revealed extensive associations with complement activation, steroidogenic regulation, mitochondrial bioenergetics, extracellular matrix remodeling, immune-associated signaling, lipid metabolism, and apoptosis-related pathways. Protein-protein interaction analysis additionally identified highly interconnected immune- and metabolism-associated hub genes, including CCL2, C3, SERPING1, PPARGC1A, and CFH, within the hsa-miR-940 regulatory network. Cross-cancer analyses further demonstrated substantial context-dependent expression heterogeneity across tumor types. The integrative findings presented in this study support the biological plausibility that hsa-miR-940, hsa-miR-375, and hsa-miR-326 may participate in coordinated regulatory programs associated with ACC progression and endocrine tumor adaptation. Insight box This study explores how three small regulatory molecules, known as microRNAs (miR-940, miR-375, and miR-326), may influence the development and progression of adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC), a rare and aggressive adrenal cancer. By analyzing large-scale gene expression data from tumor and normal adrenal tissues, important differences were identified in immune-related, metabolic, and hormone-associated biological processes linked to these microRNAs. The findings suggest that these molecules may contribute to how ACC tumors grow, adapt, and interact with their surrounding environment. This work demonstrates how integrative computational and biological analyses can help uncover potential biomarkers and future therapeutic targets in rare cancers such as ACC.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Endometrial decidualization is essential for successful embryo implantation and pregnancy establishment. This study investigates the role of high mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) in endometrial stromal cells (hESCs) during decidualization. We found that HMGB1 expression was upregulated during decidualization in vitro and in normal decidual tissues but was reduced in decidua from patients with recurrent spontaneous abortion (RSA). HMGB1 Knockdown in hESCs impaired decidualization by disrupting stromal cell differentiation, reducing the expression of prolactin (PRL) and insulin like growth factor binding protein 1 (IGFBP1), and promoting aberrant cell proliferation. HMGB1 deficiency resulted in mitochondrial dysfunction, characterized by impaired oxidative phosphorylation, reduced ATP production, and altered mitochondrial morphology and membrane potential. Mechanistically, HMGB1 regulated the expression of PPARG coactivator 1 alpha (PPARGC1A), a key regulator of mitochondrial biogenesis and oxidative metabolism, suggesting that HMGB1 contributes to decidualization through PPARGC1A mediated metabolic regulation. Furthermore, reduced PPARGC1A expression in RSA decidua further supports the involvement of the HMGB1-PPARGC1A axis in decidual dysfunction. In addition, HMGB1 exhibited dynamic expression patterns in the uterus of early pregnant mice, with enriched expression in decidual regions at implantation sites. Collectively, these findings identify HMGB1 as an important regulator of decidualization by coordinating mitochondrial function and cellular energy metabolism, providing new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying decidual dysfunction and pregnancy complications.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Myeloid cells can express lymphoid markers, including components of the CD3-TCR complex. CD3+ macrophages have been identified in both infectious and non-infectious pathologies; however, their origin and signaling mechanisms remain poorly studied, primarily due to their low prevalence in human samples. Utilizing the RAW murine macrophage cell line as a model, this study aimed to ascertain whether nutrient deprivation induces CD3 expression and to identify the signaling molecules involved in the activation of a CD3-dependent proinflammatory profile.Firstly, the impact of environmental stress, specifically nutrient deprivation, on CD3 expression over a period was assessed. Subsequently, RAW cells were stimulated with anti-CD3 and IgG2a, and the profile of proinflammatory cytokines was evaluated alongside the expression of signaling proteins, including NFAT, c-Jun, and IKK. Furthermore, the transcriptional regulation of IRF-1, GATA-3, and MAFB was examined. Lastly, the functional capacity of CD3+ RAW cells was determined through a phagocytosis assay.RAW cells were found to express molecules classically associated with T cells, including CD3, TCR, and CD4. Notably, CD3 expression was significantly upregulated at both the protein and transcriptional levels under nutrient deprivation, although it did not reach the levels observed in T cells. Functionally, CD3+ RAW cells exhibited enhanced phagocytic activity toward latex beads. Furthermore, stimulation with anti-CD3 plus IgG2a induced a robust proinflammatory cytokine response, characterized by the secretion of IFN-γ, TNF, and IL-6 as early as 5 hours post-stimulation. This response was associated with activation of signaling pathways involving NFAT, c-Jun, and IKK, along with increased IRF-1 expression and downregulation of MAFB, supporting the establishment of a CD3-dependent proinflammatory profile in RAW cells.Our findings establish RAW macrophages as a model to study CD3+ signaling machinery in myeloid cells. We demonstrate for the first time that nutrient deprivation induces CD3 expression and that the resulting CD3-driven proinflammatory program is associated, at least in part, with NFAT and IRF-1. These conclusions provide new insights into the origin and functional significance of CD3+ macrophages and offer a valuable platform for investigating the impact of this pathway on innate immune responses across various pathological contexts.Copyright © 2026 Ocaña-Guzman, Ramon-Luing, Mendoza-Ruiz, López-Chávez, Hernández-Hernández, Huerta-Zarco, Flores-Gonzalez and Chavez-Galan.
Early detection of skull base (SB) tumors and inflammatory lesions remains difficult because of deep location, complex anatomy, and subtle clinical prodromes. This study systematically evaluates contemporary advanced imaging techniques and emerging molecular biomarkers to define an evidence-based framework for earlier SB disease detection.A Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses-conformant search of PubMed, Embase, Scopus, and Cochrane Library (January 2015-June 2025) identified original human studies that reported diagnostic performance of (1) advanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), (2) positron-emission tomography (PET) or optical imaging, (3) radiomics/radiogenomics, or (4) fluid-based biomarkers in SB pathology. Methodological quality was rated with QUADAS-2. Data were extracted on sensitivity, specificity, and incremental diagnostic yield versus conventional computed tomography/MRI; meta-analysis was precluded by heterogeneity, so results were synthesized descriptively.Seventy-four studies (4,934 patients) met inclusion criteria. Readout-segmented echo-planar diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) increased lesion detection at the anterior cranial fossa by 17% over single-shot DWI. Diffusion tensor tractography improved cranial nerve visualization and altered operative corridors in 29% of cases. Susceptibility-, perfusion-, and spectroscopy-based MRI differentiated benign from malignant SB lesions with pooled sensitivity 85 to 92%. PET radiotracers outperformed 18F-FDG in low-contrast SB regions; 11C-methionine and 68Ga-FAPI achieved sensitivities of 88 to 93%, whereas 2-18F-tyrosine PET correctly mapped residual meningioma beyond Gd-MRI in 38% of postradiation cases. Stimulated Raman histology coupled with contrastive AI yielded 96.6% intraoperative accuracy for SB tumor classification. Radiomic signatures on multiparametric MRI distinguished chordoma from chondrosarcoma with area under the curve 0.93 and predicted postoperative progression in primary SB chordoma (C-index 0.80). Multiomics analyses identified recurrent genomic drivers (PBRM1 mutation, chromosome-1q gain) and metabolic markers (asparagine synthetase overexpression) associated with subclinical SB tumor presence. Circulating tumor DNA, H3K27M, and TBXT mutations, and exosomal miRNA panels were detectable in cerebrospinal fluid months before radiographic progression.Advanced MRI (particularly readout-segmented echo-planar diffusion-weighted imaging and tractography), amino acid and fibroblast-activation PET, AI-augmented optical imaging, and liquid biopsy assays collectively enhance early SB lesion detection well beyond conventional imaging. Integrating radiomics with fluid biomarkers and targeted PET could enable a risk-adapted surveillance algorithm and expedite minimally invasive intervention. Prospective multimodal studies with standardized reference standards are now warranted.Asian Congress of Neurological Surgeons. This is an open access article published by Thieme under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonDerivative-NonCommercial License, permitting copying and reproduction so long as the original work is given appropriate credit. Contents may not be used for commercial purposes, or adapted, remixed, transformed or built upon. ( https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/ ).
Posterior axis development during mammalian embryogenesis is driven by transient progenitor states that give rise to neural and mesodermal lineages, including neuromesodermal progenitors (NMPs). In vitro derivation of posterior progenitor populations from human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) has relied on modulation of Wnt and FGF signaling; however, these approaches frequently generate heterogeneous and unstable cell populations. Here, we investigated whether sodium butyrate (NaB) supplementation could promote a posteriorly biased intermediate state without extensive extracellular signaling control. We show that NaB, a histone deacetylase inhibitor, promotes the induction of posterior pre-neural progenitors (PNPs) characterized by co-expression of CDX2 and SOX2, together with suppression of SOX1. Transcriptomic analyses revealed that NaB-treated cells exhibit a posteriorly enriched PNPs with restrained anterior neural differentiation, transient early TBXT induction, and progressive activation of posterior HOX genes, consistent with an incompletely caudalized intermediate rather than a fully specified NMP population. Importantly, these PNPs remained responsive to canonical neural tube patterning cues, including retinoic acid and smoothened agonists, enabling further differentiation toward ventral spinal cord lineages. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that NaB supplementation supports posterior PNPs from hPSCs, providing a simple and reproducible platform for modeling early posterior neural development in vitro.
Pancolitis is a severe form of ulcerative colitis. Inflammation affects the entire colon and increases carcinogenesis. Standard therapies often reveal toxicities. We performed transcriptomics of ileum and colon biopsies from pancolitis patients and healthy individuals. We identified 77 differentially expressed genes in the ileum and 89 in the colon. Nine genes were overexpressed in both regions (TCL1A, DUOXA2, CC18, S100A8, CHI3L1, PTGDS, MMP3, CXCL1, and GREM1). We focused on CHI3L1 (chitinase-3-like protein-1) and confirmed its protein expression by immunohistochemistry. Based on gene expression data from the GEO database, ROC analyses identified CHI3L1 as a potential drug target. Kindlin-1-/- and Kindlin-2-/- knockout mice, displaying severe colitis symptoms, expressed high CHI3L1 protein levels, further supporting its potential as a drug target. Through virtual drug screening and molecular docking of 1575 FDA-approved drugs using the supercomputer MOGON, we identified 13 candidate drugs with the lowest binding energies (LBEs; -13.8 (±0.4) to -11.8 (± 0.1) kcal/mol) and predicted inhibition constants (pKi; 0.1 (± 0.04) to 2.2 (± 0.4) nM). We experimentally confirmed binding of velpatasvir to recombinant CHI3L1 using microscale thermophoresis (dissociation constant KD: 45.86 ± 8.99 µM). In HT-29/B6 cells, velpatasvir attenuated selected CHI3L1-induced inflammatory gene responses without evidence of overt cytotoxicity at the concentrations used. In conclusion, the novelty of this project lies in identifying CHI3L1 as a potential inflammation-associated drug target and in supercomputer-based screening and validation of velpatasvir as a lead compound for modulating CHI3L1-associated inflammatory signaling in pancolitis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Understanding how pluripotency regulatory networks evolve across mammals remains a central question in developmental and stem cell biology. While rodent models have defined the canonical core circuitry of pluripotency, the extent to which these regulatory hierarchies are conserved in large mammals is unclear. Here, we provide evidence that SOX15 contributes to the species-specific regulatory network as a modulator that sustains pluripotency and preserves functional differentiation capacity in porcine embryo-derived stem cells. Comparative sequence analysis revealed strong conservation of the SOX15 HMG domain across mammals, yet promoter divergence suggested lineage-specific regulatory evolution. Transcriptomic profiling demonstrated that, unlike in mice, SOX15 is robustly upregulated from the 2-cell stage and remains highly expressed in the porcine epiblast, coinciding with key windows of pluripotency establishment. In porcine embryo-derived stem cells, stable SOX15 knockdown resulted in reduced colony integrity, diminished alkaline phosphatase activity, impaired proliferation, and downregulation of core pluripotency genes, including OCT4 and NANOG. Furthermore, loss of SOX15 disrupts embryoid body formation and abolishes teratoma-forming capacity in vivo. This deficit likely reflects impaired pluripotency, but may also be attributed to compromised cell survival or proliferative fitness following transplantation. Notably, comparable perturbations in mouse models do not produce equivalent phenotypes, underscoring a lineage-dependent functional divergence. Together, our findings suggest that SOX15 contributes to the support of the porcine pluripotency network, and hint at evolutionary plasticity in the hierarchical architecture of mammalian pluripotency. These findings move beyond the rodent-centric paradigm and offer a refined perspective on the evolutionary plasticity of pluripotency networks, highlighting SOX15 as a pivotal lineage-specialized node governing naive pluripotency in large mammals. Notably, these inferences are based on functional perturbation using a single validated miRNAi construct; definitive confirmation of SOX15-specific causality will require future orthogonal validation via independent knockdown sequences, CRISPR interference, or RNAi-resistant rescue experiments.
Tubular epithelial dedifferentiation and loss of polarity are early pathological events in obstructive nephropathy and critically contribute to progressive renal fibrosis. Human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cell-derived exosomes (HucMSC-Exos) have shown therapeutic potential for kidney injury, yet the mechanisms by which they preserve epithelial identity remain unclear. Mafb, a transcription factor essential for renal epithelial differentiation, has been implicated in epithelial homeostasis, but its role in adult obstructive injury and its regulation by exosomes are unknown. Here, a unilateral ureteral obstruction (UUO) mouse model was used to evaluate early tubular injury and the effects of HucMSC-Exos. UUO induced marked epithelial damage characterized by decreased E-cadherin, increased vimentin and α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) expression, and disruption of epithelial polarity, whereas HucMSC-Exo administration significantly ameliorated these alterations. Mafb expression was profoundly downregulated in UUO kidneys but was effectively restored following exosome treatment. In vitro, Mafb knockdown in Human renal proximal tubular epithelial (HK-2) cells markedly aggravated TGF-β1-induced dedifferentiation, confirming its protective role in epithelial integrity. Analysis of Mafb -/- embryonic kidneys demonstrated severe developmental defects and loss of polarity markers, highlighting the essential function of Mafb in renal epithelium. Importantly, HucMSC-Exos rescued epithelial marker expression even in Mafb-silenced cells, suggesting both Mafb-dependent and independent mechanisms. These findings identify Mafb as a key regulator of tubular epithelial homeostasis and reveal that HucMSC-Exos attenuate early renal injury partly through Mafb restoration.© 2026 The Author(s). Pediatric Discovery published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Children's Hospital of Chongqing Medical University.
Hypospadias is among the most frequent congenital malformations of the male genitalia. The expression of V-maf musculoaponeurotic fibrosarcoma oncogene homolog B (MAFB), a transcription factor within the androgen signaling pathway, is closely correlated with the etiology of this condition. From an epigenetic perspective, this study investigated the role of microRNA-130a-3p (miR-130a-3p) in regulating MAFB during hypospadias pathogenesis. Clinical foreskin samples from hypospadias children and the dioctyl phthalate (DEHP)-induced mouse genital tubercle tissues were analyzed. The expression levels of miR-130a-3p and MAFB were detected by qRT-PCR and western blot. In vitro, miR-130a-3p was modulated in HS68 cells; CCK-8, scratch assay, western blot, flow cytometry, and dual-luciferase assay were used to assess its effects and targeting of MAFB. Our study demonstrated that miR-130a-3p targeted and suppressed MAFB expression. This suppression inhibited cellular proliferation and migration and reduced Vimentin mRNA expression. Cell cycle distribution was disrupted, marked by Gap 1 phase increase and Synthesis phase reduction, and the cell apoptosis rate increased. Cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2), Cyclin E1, and Proliferating Cell Nuclear Antigen (PCNA) were downregulated. miR-130a-3p targets and inhibits MAFB expression, disrupting the normal processes of cell proliferation, migration, cell apoptosis, and cell cycle progression, ultimately leading to the development of hypospadias.© 2026 The Author(s). Pediatric Discovery published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Children's Hospital of Chongqing Medical University.
hsa_circ_0021001 is downregulated in intracranial aneurysm (IA), and this downregulation influences the growth of human brain vascular smooth muscle cells (hBVSMCs). However, the mechanism by which hsa_circ_0021001 contributes to hBVSMC dysfunction in IA remains unclear. In this study, the expressions of miR-152-3p, hsa_circ_0021001, and Gremlin 1 (GREM1) were detected using qRT-PCR. Cell viability was assessed using CCK-8 assays, protein levels of GREM1 and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) were evaluated using western blotting. In addition, RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed to validate the correlation among hsa_circ_0021001, GREM1, and miR-152-3p. Our results indicated that overexpression of hsa_circ_0021001 or GREM1 inhibited hBVSMC viability and migration, promoted cell apoptosis, decreased PCNA levels, and increased α-SMA levels. Additionally, miR-152-3p was shown to directly bind to both GREM1 and hsa_circ_0021001, reversing the effects of hsa_circ_0021001 on PCNA and α-SMA expression, hBVSMC viability, cell migration, and apoptosis. Inhibition of miR-152-3p suppressed hBVSMC viability and migration and promoted apoptosis, while GREM1 knockdwon rescued these cellular phenotypesthe and restored PCNA and α-SMA expression. In conclusion, hsa_circ_0021001 modulates GREM1 expression via miR-152-3p in hBVSMCs, thereby regulating IA-associated phenotypic alterations by suppressing cell viability and migration. It also promotes apoptosis through the miR-152-3p/GREM1 axis.AJTR Copyright © 2026.
To identify clinical and anatomical predictors of pachychoroid macular atrophy (pMA) development in chronic central serous chorioretinopathy (CSC) patients treated with photodynamic therapy (PDT), eplerenone, or subthreshold micropulse laser (SMLT).Retrospective study of 74 consecutive chronic or recurrent CSC patients. All underwent baseline multimodal imaging and were treated with PDT (half-dose), eplerenone (50 mg daily), or SMLT (577 nm), per clinical protocols. Retreatment during follow-up with PDT or MLT was performed as needed based on fluid persistence or recurrence. Quantitative (SRF height, SFCT, CRT) and qualitative (SRF, SHRM, PED, EZ integrity) OCT parameters were recorded. Multivariate regression identified independent predictors of pMA, adjusting for treatment modality.At 12-month follow-up, persistent SRF was found in 51.4% of patients and was the strongest independent predictor of pMA (OR = 14.07; 95% CI: 1.73-114.65; p = 0.001). Additional independent predictors included reduced SRF height change (OR = 2.31; 95% CI: 1.14-4.68; p = 0.021), pronounced subfoveal choroidal thinning (OR = 1.68; 95% CI: 1.02-2.77; p = 0.045), and persistent SHRM (OR = 3.24; 95% CI: 1.32-7.95; p = 0.010). Treatment modality (PDT, eplerenone, SMLT) was not a significant independent predictor of pMA when adjusted for fluid persistence (p > 0.05).In chronic CSC, persistent subretinal fluid after treatment-regardless of retreatment-remains the dominant predictor of pMA. Anatomical resolution of SRF should be a primary therapeutic goal to prevent irreversible atrophic damage.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Royal College of Ophthalmologists.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) requires robust biomarkers. To overcome the limitations of bulk sequencing, we integrated single-cell eQTL mapping with Mendelian randomization to identify causal cell populations and genes. CD8 Teff cells were expanded in peripheral blood, showing elevation in non-DR diabetes and reaching maximal levels in DR. Mendelian randomization analysis implicated IL2RB as a putative causal marker, with the lead eQTL SNP rs3184504 demonstrating strong association (p = 8.5467 × 10-18). Colocalization analysis with DR GWAS and validation in bulk data reinforced this signal. In tissues, CellChat predicted more interactions for IL2RB+ compared to IL2RB- CD8 Teff cells, including IL16-CD4 with macrophages and NAMPT interactions with both ITGA5+ITGB1 and INSR on endothelial cells, implicating immune-vascular regulation. Together, these findings nominate IL2RB as a biomarker and therapeutic target while clarifying mechanisms underlying DR.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556545 is a review article
We report a case of a uterine mesenchymal tumor with myogenic differentiation and SRF::RELA fusion occurring in a 23-year-old woman manifesting as an endometrial polyp. The tumor consisted of bland spindle cells with a predominantly fascicular growth pattern and entrapment of the endometrial glands and vessels. The tumor was positive for smooth muscle markers and CD10. NGS RNA analysis revealed SRF::RELA fusion. NGS DNA analysis revealed no pathogenic variants or copy-number alterations. On follow-up 12 months after curettage, the patient showed no signs of the disease. To the best of our knowledge, only 3 cases of uterine tumors with SRF::RELA fusion arising in the gynecologic tract have been described previously, and all show benign behavior so far. Differential diagnosis includes both benign and potentially aggressive entities, such as leiomyoma, inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor, perivascular epithelioid cell tumor, uterine adenosarcoma, low-grade endometrial stromal sarcoma, and uterine sarcoma with KAT6B/A::KANSL1 fusion.Copyright © 2026 by the International Society of Gynecological Pathologists.
No study has compared the safety and efficacy of anti-reflux mucosal ablation (ARMA), anti-reflux mucosectomy (ARMS), and Stretta radiofrequency (SRF) for intractable gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) after peroral endoscopic myotomy (POEM).Twenty-two patients with post-POEM GERD underwent either ARMA (n=12), ARMS (n=6), or SRF (n=4). GERD questionnaire (GERDQ) score, endoscopic Los Angeles classification, flap valve grade based on Hill's type EndoFLIP distensibility index (DI), and rate of proton pump inhibitor withdrawal were analyzed and compared. The factors associated with the occurrence of post-POEM intractable GERD were also evaluated.The ARMS group demonstrated a significant improvement in GERDQ scores after 6 months of follow-up (p=0.04). No significant differences were observed in the endoscopic Los Angeles grade (p=0.68), flap valve grade (p=0.38), or EndoFLIP DI (p=0.15). Type III achalasia and posterior myotomy orientation during POEM were identified as risk factors for reintervention. Postprocedural adverse events (bleeding and stricture) occurred in the ARMA and ARMS groups.Among the three procedures, ARMS produced the most notable improvement in symptoms, whereas endoscopic esophagitis and EndoFLIP DI did not show a similar improvement.
This study evaluated the influence of different radiopacifying agents on the physical and biological properties of tricalcium silicate-based cement (TCS). Eight radiopacifiers-bismuth oxide (Bi2O3), zirconium oxide (ZrO2), calcium tungstate (CaWO4), barium sulphate (BaSO4), tantalum oxide (Ta2O5), strontium fluoride (SrF2), strontium titanate (SrTiO3), and barium titanate (BaTiO3)-were incorporated into TCS, with pure TCS serving as the control. Setting time, compressive strength, radiopacity, discolouration, fluid uptake, porosity, solubility, bioactivity, calcium ion release, pH, and cytotoxicity were evaluated. Most radiopacifiers reduced the initial setting time and solubility without significantly affecting the final setting time, compressive strength at 7 and 28 days, bioactivity, or pH. All radiopacifiers increased radiopacity and calcium ion release, while also increasing fluid uptake and porosity. Certain radiopacifiers were associated with increased cytotoxicity. Among the materials tested, BaTiO3 achieved the highest composite score. In contrast, CaWO4, BaSO4, ZrO2, SrTiO3, SrF2, and Ta2O5 demonstrated progressively inferior performance compared with pure TCS, with Bi2O3 showing the least favourable outcome.
To compare the real-world effectiveness of faricimab versus aflibercept 2 mg in treatment-naïve patients with neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD).We analysed treatment-naïve nAMD patients aged ≥50 years initiating intravitreal anti-VEGF therapy between March 2024 and September 2024. Patients received either faricimab or aflibercept 2 mg. Inverse probability of treatment weighting was used to minimise selection bias. Primary outcomes were best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) changes from baseline to post-loading phase and 1-year follow-up. Secondary outcomes included anatomic resolution of intraretinal fluid (IRF), subretinal fluid (SRF), and subretinal hyperreflective material (SHRM), treatment burden, and safety.A total of 172 patients were included (86 faricimab, 86 aflibercept). Baseline characteristics were well-balanced between groups. The faricimab regimen was associated with greater BCVA improvement compared with aflibercept at post-loading phase (adjusted mean difference -0.075 logMAR; 95% confidence interval [CI], -0.130 to -0.020; P = 0.008) and at 1 year (-0.073 logMAR; 95% CI, -0.128 to -0.018; P = 0.011). Patients receiving faricimab achieved significantly higher rates of SRF resolution (odds ratio 2.446; 95% CI, 1.012 to 5.912; P = 0.047). The faricimab group was associated with fewer injections from the post-loading phase to 1 year (median 3 vs. 4; P < 0.001) and lower therapy switching rates (7.9% vs. 25.6%; P = 0.003).In treatment-naïve nAMD patients, faricimab achieved greater visual acuity gains, enhanced anatomic outcomes, and reduced treatment burden compared with aflibercept. However, these findings should be interpreted in light of the non-randomised design, different loading regimens, and potential differences in early treatment exposure.© 2026. The Author(s).
To determine the prevalence of retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) microrips within serous pigment epithelial detachments (PEDs) in first-episode acute central serous chorioretinopathy (CSCR) and to assess their spatial relationship with focal angiographic leakage using multimodal imaging.Retrospective observational case series.Thirty-nine eyes of 39 patients with acute CSCR (symptom duration <3 months).All eyes underwent spectral-domain OCT, fluorescein angiography, and indocyanine green angiography (ICGA). Imaging biomarkers at leakage sites included PEDs, RPE microrips, outer retinal erosion and outer retinal pinching, pachyvessels, midphase ICGA hyperfluorescent plaques, and subfoveal choroidal thickness. Clinical outcomes included best-corrected visual acuity, subretinal fluid (SRF) resolution, recurrence, and progression to chronic disease.Mean age was 44.5 ± 10.0 years, and 61.5% of patients were male. PEDs colocalized with the focal leakage site in all eyes, whereas RPE microrips colocalized with the site of focal angiographic leakage in 66.7% of eyes, with good interobserver agreement (κ = 0.79) observed. Outer retinal erosion and outer retinal pinching were observed in 38.5% and 12.8% of eyes, respectively. Midphase ICGA hyperfluorescent plaques were observed in 56.4% and pachyvessels in 46.2% of cases. Mean best-corrected visual acuity improved from 0.24 ± 0.25 (20/34 Snellen) to 0.10 ± 0.17 logMAR (20/25 Snellen) at final follow-up, with complete SRF resolution in 68.4%. Baseline subfoveal choroidal thickness correlated with SRF height (P = 0.018), but no baseline imaging biomarkers predicted final visual or anatomical outcomes.RPE microrips within serous PEDs frequently are observed and precisely colocalise with focal leakage in acute CSCR, supporting a mechanical model of focal RPE dehiscence driven by increased choroidal pressure. These findings provide insight into CSCR pathophysiology and may inform therapeutic strategies.Published by Elsevier Inc.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of en face optical coherence tomography (OCT)-guided navigated focal laser photocoagulation for central serous chorioretinopathy (CSCR).Prospective, non-randomized non-inferiority study.Patients with non-resolving CSCR and focal leakage diagnosed by fluorescein angiography (FA) received navigated focal laser photocoagulation planned in a masked fashion based on either en face OCT or FA. The main outcome measure was complete resolution of subretinal fluid (SRF) within three months.Seventy-eight eyes of 78 patients and 48 eyes of 48 patients were included in the OCT-guided and FA-guided groups, respectively. The mean LogMAR baseline best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and central retinal thickness (CRT) in the OCT-guided group were 0.16 ± 0.12 and 379.1 ± 59.2 µm and improved to -0.03 ± 0.06 and 227.1 ± 46.2 µm, respectively (p < 0.001). The mean LogMAR BCVA and CRT in FA-guided group were 0.11 ± 0.08 and 373.8 ± 56.3 µm and improved to -0.03 ± 0.07 and 221.9 ± 43.1 µm, respectively (p < 0.001). Complete resolution of SRF at 3 months was achieved in 66 out of 78 (84.6%) eyes in the OCT-guided group and in 39 out of 48 (81.3%) eyes in the FA-guided group (p = 0.62). No adverse events were registered in either treatment group.Focal navigated laser photocoagulation planned solely based on en face OCT demonstrated non-inferior safety and efficacy compared with conventional FA-guided treatment for non-resolving CSCR with focal leakage.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Balloon pulmonary angioplasty (BPA) improves haemodynamics and outcomes in patients with inoperable chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH). Riociguat is frequently initiated before BPA to reduce procedural risks. However, evidence supporting continuation after successful BPA is lacking and current guidelines provide no criteria for treatment discontinuation. Consequently, many patients remain on long-term riociguat despite uncertain benefit, potential adverse effects and high costs.STOP-RIO is a multicentre, open-label, randomised, non-inferiority (NI) trial conducted in the two Dutch CTEPH expert centres. Seventy-four adult CTEPH patients treated with riociguat monotherapy with a mean pulmonary artery pressure (mPAP) <30 mmHg post-BPA will be randomised (1:1) to stop or continue the medication. The primary endpoint is the between-group difference in baseline-adjusted mPAP at rest measured by right heart catheterisation at 16 weeks. NI will be tested for the primary endpoint and for the two secondary endpoints highest in hierarchy N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide and 6-min walk distance. Additional secondary endpoints include haemodynamic parameters, safety outcomes, patient-reported outcomes and healthcare use. The primary analysis will be performed in a per-protocol population with secondary intention-to-treat and exploratory analyses. A prospective health economic evaluation will be conducted from a societal perspective.The study is conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and Good Clinical Practice and has received ethical approval. Written informed consent will be obtained from all participants. Results will be disseminated through peer-reviewed publication and shared with patient organisations and scientific congress.EU Clinical Trials Register: 2024-5 19 225-38-00.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published by BMJ Group.
How fungal pathogens coordinate genotoxic stress responses with membrane homeostasis to sustain cellular signaling remains poorly understood. In this study, we characterize Mrv6, a MARVEL domain-containing membrane protein that is prominently induced by genotoxic stress. Intriguingly, rather than functioning as a canonical DNA repair factor, Mrv6 acts as a critical biophysical adjuster governing membrane lipid homeostasis. Deletion of MRV6 triggers a global transcriptional activation of the ergosterol biosynthetic pathway, resulting in aberrant cellular ergosterol accumulation. We demonstrate that this lipid imbalance fundamentally alters plasma membrane homeostasis, resulting in a less permeable architecture. Paradoxically, while this structural alteration inadvertently shields the fungus from exogenous genotoxins, conferring unexpected resistance to methyl methanesulfonate, it simultaneously hinders the intracellular transduction of environmental morphogenetic signals under hypoxic conditions. Consequently, the major hyphal repressor NRG1 remains aberrantly expressed, leading to an attenuated signaling response that significantly impairs virulence. Crucially, targeted genetic suppression of either the lipid biosynthetic node (ERG1) or the downstream signaling node (NRG1) effectively mitigates this biophysical constraint, rescuing both morphogenetic switching and pathogenicity. Collectively, our findings define a novel biochemical paradigm wherein C. albicans utilizes a stress-responsive membrane protein to fine-tune ergosterol remodeling and membrane permeability, structurally coupling stress adaptation to signal transduction.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Criteria for arrhythmia classification in horses are insufficient, particularly when differentiating atrial premature complexes (APCs) from sinus arrhythmia (SA). This study investigated RR and PP interval changes between SA, APCs, and ventricular premature complexes (VPCs).30 resting ECGs were reviewed: 10 each containing SA, APC, and VPC. Sequences of 10 RR and PP intervals were recorded for each arrhythmia (20 events/ECG). Percent RR and PP deviations were calculated (1) between sequential intervals (%ΔSEQPP and %ΔSEQRR, respectively) and (2) compared to averaged baseline intervals 1 to 3 (%ΔAVGPP and %ΔAVGRR, respectively). Percent RR and PP deviations were compared between arrhythmias with 2-way ANOVA and receiver operator characteristic curve analysis.Cycle length variation differentiated SA from APCs and VPCs in the degree of prematurity and return cycle length by use of both RR and PP intervals. The %ΔAVGRR, %ΔSEQPP, and %ΔAVGPP performed better than %ΔSEQRR for differentiating SA from APCs in degree of prematurity, while return cycle length was differentiated clearly with all 4 methods. Using %ΔSEQPP, the degree of prematurity and return cycle length of APCs differed from both SA and VPCs. Using %ΔAVGRR and %ΔAVGPP removed the influence of the degree of prematurity on the return cycle length variation. Variability of the sinus cycle lengths (PP7 to 10) following VPCs and SA was noted.The addition of PP intervals to cycle length variation analyses provided additional discriminatory capacity, particularly between APCs and SA. Classification bias was a limitation.Evaluation of cycle length variation was a useful adjunct tool for resting ECG classification of SA, APCs, and VPCs.
We conducted a phase II study of fludarabine, thiotepa, reduced dose melphalan conditioning for allogeneic transplantation using alternate donors. Thirty-eight patients with hematological malignancies were enrolled. Conditioning included fludarabine 160 mg/m2, thiotepa 10 mg/kg (dose adjusted to 5 mg/kg for age >60 years) and melphalan 100 mg/m2. Sixteen patients (42%) received reduced intensity thiotepa (5 mg/kg). Twenty-one patients (55%) had acute myeloid leukemia, rest had acute lymphoblastic leukemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, myelofibrosis and relapsed high-risk lymphomas. Twenty-eight (74%) underwent haplo-identical transplants-rest received double cord blood grafts. With median follow up of 38 months, Day +100 marrow demonstrated morphologic complete remission in 34/38 evaluable patients. Progression-free survival at 1-, 2- and 3-year was 68%, 63% and 63%, respectively. Overall survival at 1-, 2- and 3-year was 76%, 71% and 64%, respectively. One-year non-relapse mortality was 21% and relapse rate was 11%. Twelve patients received post-transplant maintenance therapy. We conclude that fludarabine/thiotepa/low dose melphalan can induce durable long-term remissions in patients with advanced disease.
Heart rate variability biofeedback (HRV biofeedback) is a promising treatment for improving autonomic regulation and health outcomes. Although HRV biofeedback has demonstrated benefits in younger adults, its efficacy in older adult samples remains unclear. Given age-related declines in heart rate variability (HRV) and corresponding risk for heart disease, stress-related difficulties, and cognitive decline, HRV biofeedback could be an intervention to enhance HRV and improve emotional functioning, sleep, and cognitive performance in older adults. We conducted a randomized, sham-controlled trial wherein 53 healthy older adults were randomized to active HRV biofeedback treatment or sham. Participants completed a five-week HRV biofeedback intervention with assessments measuring HRV at rest, during stress recovery, along with measures of emotional functioning, sleep, and cognitive performance and completed pre- and post-testing along with a 5-week intervention. No significant differences were detected in resting HRV between groups. However, the HRV biofeedback group showed a significant increase in LF during recovery from an acute laboratory stressor (Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test), suggesting potential modulation of HRV during recovery, particularly in low frequency oscillatory ranges. Both HRV biofeedback and sham conditions reported improved sleep quality as well as improvements in HF, RMSSD, and SDNN HRV measures, but no significant differences were present for measures of emotional functioning or cognitive performance. High adherence rates in both conditions did not moderate HRV outcomes. Findings suggest HRV biofeedback may enhance aspects of HRV during stress recovery in older adults but there were not specific improvements in resting HRV, emotional health, or cognition.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
The aim is to provide an overview of our early experience in pediatric surgeon-directed management of abdominal trauma presenting to a University Hospital.Retrospective analysis of the data from all children presented with abdominal trauma (<14 years of age) who needed hospital admission and were listed on the trauma registry between May 2021 and May 2022.One hundred and twenty children, 88 (73.3%) males and 32 (26.7%) females, were identified. The median age was 6 years. Out of the 120 patients, 8 (6.66%) presented with penetrating abdominal injury and 112 (93.33%) presented with blunt abdominal injuries. The principal mechanism of blunt injury was road traffic accidents (RTAs) (44.6%). The most frequently affected abdominal organ was the spleen (33.8%). Twenty patients (16.6%) underwent surgery, and the rest (83.4%) were managed conservatively. The overall in-hospital mortality rate was 5%, with a median length of stay of 5 days. The highest mortality was among patients with bowel injury (66.7%).The patterns of injury in the pediatric trauma population are comparable to those in other African pediatric trauma centres. RTAs remain the most common cause of injury. Operative management is similar to international standards. Mortality is high compared to high-income countries and some low-medium income countries as well.Copyright: © 2026 Journal of Indian Association of Pediatric Surgeons.
Omental cysts are rare intra-abdominal lymphatic malformations in children, accounting for approximately 2% of all intra-abdominal lymphatic lesions. Their embryological origin remains uncertain, and preoperative diagnosis is often challenging due to their nonspecific clinical and radiological features. This study aims to present our institutional experience with omental cysts in children and review current literature on their presentation, evaluation, and management.A retrospective review was conducted in our department between 2015 and 2024. Medical records of children who underwent surgery for omental cysts were analyzed for demographic data, presentation, imaging findings, operative details, histopathology, and outcomes.Nine children (eight boys, one girl; median age 4 years) underwent omentectomy for omental cysts. Abdominal pain or distension were the most common presentations. Preoperative imaging was suggestive of omental origin in only one child, with others reported as mesenteric cysts or lymphatic malformations. The mean cyst diameter was 14 cm, with laparoscopy attempted in two children, while the rest underwent laparotomy. Histopathology confirmed benign lymphatic malformation in all patients. Postoperative recovery was uneventful, with no recurrence on follow-up for a minimum of 5 years.Omental cysts should be considered in the differential diagnosis of cystic abdominal lesions in children. Misdiagnosis as ascites or mesenteric cysts is common. Complete surgical excision through omentectomy remains the treatment of choice, offering excellent outcomes with minimal morbidity and negligible recurrence.Copyright: © 2026 Journal of Indian Association of Pediatric Surgeons.
The taxonomy of the Auriculariaceae (Auriculariales, Basidiomycota) is revised based on morphological data and four- and three-marker datasets, with special emphasis on the Exidia clade. We argue in favor of retaining Exidia as a large genus, encompassing most species previously relegated to it, with an addition of four effused (Exidiopsis-like) species. Phylogenetic data allow us to justify two segregates from Exidia s. lato, namely the reinstated Ulocolla (Exidia saccharina complex) and a newly erected genus Descidia, encompassing Exidia repanda and E. thuretiana. At large, morphological data corroborate this splitting. Exidiopsis effusa, the generic type of Exidiopsis, is typified and redescribed; together with a newly described E. perflua, it constitutes the genus Exidiopsis s. str. The rest of Exidiopsis s. lato species studied by us are redistributed among the redefined genera Adustochaete, Leiostroma, Proterochaete, and Ulocolla, as well as a newly introduced genus, Tegmenticium. Amphistereum is placed among the synonyms of Eichleriella and the single representative of Sclerotrema, Exidiopsis griseobrunnea, is moved into Ulocolla. In total, 52 species are properly redescribed or introduced below, of them twenty are new to science, and twenty new combinations are proposed. Additionally, we detected two single-species lineages: Pholiobasidion senex gen. nov. et sp. nov., from North America, which is recovered as the sister group to all other members of the Auriculariaceae sampled, and Scrupulispora perparvula gen. nov. et sp. nov., from Europe.Viacheslav Spirin, Vera Malysheva, Nathan Schoutteten, Anton Savchenko, Bernard Rivoire, Jan Olsson, Thomas Læssøe, Leif Ryvarden, Django Grootmyers, Matti Kulju, Josef Vlasák, María Victoria Vignale, Ilya Viner.
Antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody (ANCA)-associated vasculitis (AAV) is a relatively uncommon autoimmune disease, predominantly causing kidney or lung injury. Pituitary dysfunction is exceedingly rare in microscopic polyangiitis (MPA). Rupture or hemorrhage of renal artery aneurysms is also scarcely reported in AAV, especially in MPA. In this study, we describe a 68-year-old woman who presented with shortness of breath at rest, polydipsia, and polyuria. In addition to an increased p-ANCA titer (1:10) and the presence of anti-myeloperoxidase antibodies, T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging of the head revealed pituitary injury. A diagnosis of MPA accompanied by pulmonary intestinal disease, central diabetes insipidus, and hypophysitis was confirmed. The patient responded to intravenous methylprednisolone and immunoglobulin. However, 1 week after admission, she complained of a sudden onset of sharp pain in her right waist area, accompanied by weakness, nausea, syncope, and hypotension. The hemoglobin level decreased from 95 to 47 g/L and abdominal computed tomography revealed a large perirenal hematoma surrounding the right kidney. The patient was immediately administered methylprednisolone pulse therapy (500 mg/day for 3 days) and cyclophosphamide (CTX; 0.6 g), followed by fluid resuscitation, blood transfusion, hemostatic therapy, and infusion of fresh frozen plasma. Arterial angiography demonstrated active bleeding of the interlobular artery of the right kidney, and selective arterial embolization was performed. Fortunately, she responded well to glucocorticoid and CTX therapy and did not relapse during the 5-year follow-up. Pituitary involvement accompanied by spontaneous rupture of a renal aneurysm is an extremely rare complication of MPA and has not been reported before.Copyright 2026 Authors.
Continuous vital sign monitoring is critical but often labor-intensive. Fiberoptic technologies, like the SMART MAT, offer non-invasive assessment. Adapting this for a seated posture addresses clinical needs by promoting safe patient mobilization and reducing complications associated with prolonged bed rest.To validate the accuracy of the sitting SMART MAT for respiratory rate (RR), heart rate (HR), oxygen saturation (SpO2), and systolic and diastolic blood pressure (SBP/DBP) against established clinical reference standards.This cross-sectional study compared sitting SMART MAT readings with clinical reference measurements under stationary and mobile wheelchair conditions. Accuracy was assessed using Mean Absolute Error (MAE), Mean Absolute Percentage Error (MAPE), Bland-Altman Limits of Agreement (LoA), repeated-measures ANOVA, and effect size.Data from 130 participants were analyzed. HR readings demonstrated high accuracy (MAE = 3.67-4.81 bpm) with tight LoA. RR error was minimal (MAE = 2.85-2.86 breaths/min) statically but increased during motion (MAE = 5.03-5.21 breaths/min). SpO2 remained highly stable (MAE = 1.08-1.21%), well within standard clinical tolerance. SBP showed solid central accuracy (MAE = 6.48-7.51 mmHg) but wider LoA occasionally exceeded the ±5 mmHg threshold, functioning best as a continuous trend monitor. DBP variance was negligible (MAE = 4.65-5.46 mmHg).The current SMART MAT is a viable, integrated multimodal platform. HR, RR, and DBP are comparable to clinical reference standards, while SBP requires careful interpretation. By accommodating a functional sitting posture, the contactless system reduces immobility-related complications and demonstrates high feasibility for continuous, real-world monitoring.Copyright © 2026 Sim, Chan, Phang, Liem and Yeung.
Prostate cancer (PCa) is characterized by molecular heterogeneity and metabolic reprogramming, but the relationships among transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolic signals remain incompletely defined. Here, we present a human-centered, cross-dataset analysis of public RNA, protein, and metabolomics data in PCa. We analyzed RNA and protein profiles from PC3 parental and drug-resistant cells together with an independent human matched tissue metabolomics dataset from Metabolomics Workbench (ST000784). RNA-protein overlap analysis identified seven genes that were significant at both layers, including five concordantly upregulated genes: UPP1, IGF2R, FLNC, DSP, and PLEC. Among these, UPP1 provided the most direct metabolic interpretation because it encodes uridine phosphorylase 1, an enzyme linked to pyrimidine salvage. Independent ST000784 matched prostate tissue metabolomics supported broader nucleotide metabolism remodeling, including significant changes in N-carbamoyl-L-aspartate, guanosine monophosphate, and adenosine 3,5-cyclic monophosphate. In contrast, uracil was not significantly altered and uridine 5'-monophosphate showed only a trend after multiple-testing correction. Repeated stratified cross-validation showed that UPP1-containing candidate gene sets achieved high within-layer AUC values in RNA and protein data, while nested statistical benchmark models also performed strongly. These results prioritize a UPP1-associated nucleotide remodeling hypothesis in PCa, but do not establish causal regulation of metabolite abundance or clinical diagnostic utility. Future matched multi-omics and perturbation experiments are required.Copyright: © 2026 Chen et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Urinary proteomic profiling (UPP) provides insights in disease mechanisms and origin of symptoms. Using UPP, this study aimed at deepening insight in the biology of exercise tolerance.In the HOMAGE trial, 268 patients at risk of heart failure underwent the incremental shuttle walk test (SWT) and UPP by capillary electrophoresis coupled with mass spectrometry at baseline (discovery) and the 9-month final visit (replication). Sequencing of 1498 urinary peptides identified 170 non-collagen and 40 collagen-derived proteins. Ten exercise-related variables, including heart rate and blood pressure responses, symptoms and walking distance were summarised into a single factor, higher values indicating exercise intolerance. In exploratory analyses, exercise intolerance was related to the UPP, first in linear and logistic regression models, considering one peptide at a time, and next by elastic net regression considering the peptides retained in the previous step. Replicated proteins were subjected to pathway analysis.Twenty-nine non-collagen and 31 collagen-derived peptides were associated with reduced exercise capacity with correction for multiple testing. In elastic net regression, exercise intolerance was in >50% of 1000 bootstrap runs associated with the non-collagen proteins FXYD2, GAPDH, HBB, KCNB1, MB, MYOCD, SECTM1, SNX9, TACC3, TMSB4X, and TTN and with collagens COL5A1, COL6A1, COL11A2, and COL28A1. Enriched pathways involved oxygen homoeostasis, oxidative stress regulation, metabolic and developmental processes, and muscle biology.In HOMAGE patients, UPP identified parent proteins regulating exercise endurance, which are involved in oxygenation, vascular and muscle structure and function, maintenance of the circulating volume, and protection against oxidative stress.European Union.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) typically exhibits a favorable prognosis; however, lymph node and distant metastases continue to present significant clinical challenges. Plectin isoform 1d (PLEC 1d) contributes to myofiber integrity and is implicated in cytoskeletal organization and cancer cell motility, but its role in PTC progression is largely unknown. In this study, PLEC 1d expression was examined by RT-PCR in three PTC cell lines (MDA-T32, MDA-T41, MDA-T120) and normal thyroid cells (Nthy-ori-3-1). CRISPR-Cas9-mediated knockdown (KD) of PLEC 1d was performed in MDA-T41 cells, with KD efficiency confirmed by RT-qPCR. Cell proliferation and migration were assessed using EdU incorporation and wound-healing assays, respectively. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) combined with RT-qPCR and Western blotting was employed to identify downstream targets. Accordingly, PLEC 1d mRNA and total plectin protein levels were substantially elevated only in MDA-T41 cells. PLEC 1d KD reduced proliferation by 6.6% and migration by 26%. Transcriptomic analysis revealed 170 differentially expressed genes, including significant downregulation of LAMA4, MMP1, and HEY1. HEY1 downregulation was confirmed at both mRNA and protein levels. Although LAMA4 and MMP1 were also downregulated following PLEC 1d KD, LAMA4 mRNA expression varied across PTC cell lines, suggesting cell-line-specific regulation. Notably, MMP1 was consistently upregulated at the mRNA level in all PTC cell lines, while HEY1 showed elevated expression at both the transcript and protein levels. Collectively, these findings indicate that PLEC 1d enhances cell migration and may contribute to cellular processes associated with metastatic behavior in a subset of PTC cells, potentially through a HEY1-dependent mechanism.
Worldwide, diabetic retinopathy (DR) stands as a leading cause of vision loss. However, the involvement of PANoptosis-a form of inflammatory cell death that combines features of apoptosis, pyroptosis, and necroptosis-in the development of DR has not been fully elucidated. This study investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying high glucose (HG)-induced PANoptosis in human retinal microvascular endothelial cells (hRMECs), focusing on the scavenger receptor CD36 and NOTCH/MAML signaling. HG specifically induced PANoptosis in hRMECs, evidenced by concurrent activation of apoptotic, pyroptotic, and necroptotic markers, along with PANoptosome complex formation and morphological validation via terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) staining. HG significantly upregulated CD36 expression and activated the NOTCH/MAML pathway. CD36 overexpression exacerbated PANoptosis by enhancing cell death, inflammatory responses, and oxidative stress, whereas CD36 knockdown conferred protection. Mechanistically, CD36 promoted PANoptosome assembly through NOTCH/MAML pathway activation, as demonstrated by increased NICD-MAML1 nuclear colocalization and enhanced NOTCH component expression. We further verified that the CD36-NOTCH axis regulates PANoptosis through the modulation of NLRP3, a core component of the PANoptosome. Pharmacological NOTCH inhibition using DAPT ameliorated HG-induced PANoptosis, whereas NOTCH activation mimicked CD36 overexpression effects. These results establish a novel CD36-NOTCH/MAML-NLRP3-PANoptosis regulatory pathway in diabetic retinal endothelial cells. This discovery provides crucial insights into DR pathogenesis and pinpoints potential targets for therapeutic intervention.Copyright © 2026 Rongfeng Dai et al. Journal of Diabetes Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Pulmonary lymphoepithelial carcinoma (PLEC) is a rare malignancy with limited evidence for unresectable disease. We compared platinum-based doublet chemotherapy with or without programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) inhibition and explored regimen-specific outcomes.Consecutive patients with unresectable stage IIIA-IVB PLEC receiving gemcitabine-platinum (GP), taxane-platinum (TP), or pemetrexed-platinum (AP), alone (Chemo-alone) or with PD-1 inhibition (Chemo-IO), were retrospectively included. The primary endpoint was progression-free survival (PFS); secondary endpoints were overall survival (OS), objective response rate (ORR), and disease control rate (DCR). Survival was estimated using Kaplan-Meier and Cox models, with OS analyses administratively censored at 60 months; inverse probability of treatment weighting (IPTW) was used as a sensitivity analysis.Among 132 patients, 70 received Chemo-alone and 62 received Chemo-IO. Chemo-IO was associated with longer PFS (median 16.4 vs 6.4 months; HR 0.23; 95% CI, 0.13-0.41; P < 0.001) and longer OS in unweighted analysis (59.6 vs 36.9 months; HR 0.59; 95% CI, 0.36-0.99; P = 0.044). ORR was higher with Chemo-IO (80.6% vs 58.6%; P = 0.008), whereas DCR was similar (95.2% vs 88.6%; P = 0.216). In exploratory regimen-level analyses, Chemo-alone median PFS was 9.0, 6.0, and 4.3 months with GP, TP, and AP; GP showed a favorable PFS signal compared with TP (HR, 0.35; 95% CI, 0.15-0.82; P = 0.016) and AP (HR, 0.29; 95% CI, 0.13-0.69; P = 0.005). PFS and OS did not differ significantly across Chemo-IO regimens. IPTW supported the PFS finding but attenuated the OS association.In this retrospective cohort, first-line Chemo-IO was associated with longer PFS and higher ORR, whereas OS findings should be interpreted cautiously. The favorable GP signal observed in the Chemo-alone setting was exploratory, and regimen-level differences were less evident after immunotherapy was incorporated. These findings may inform treatment selection and support prospective studies.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The phenotype alteration of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) is critical for vascular physiology and pathology. Transcription factors (TFs) and long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) play pivotal roles in the gene regulatory network underlying various biological processes, including the pathogenesis of vascular diseases. Despite the established role of MYOCD as a master TF in VSMC biology, the MYOCD-mediated lncRNA-protein regulatory network in VSMC phenotype alteration remains elusive. Here, we explored long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) potentially involved in MYOCD-dependent VSMC regulation.We conducted an unbiased screening to identify key lncRNA regulators in this regulatory network using expression correlation analysis in diseased human arteries. As a result, we found that CARDINAL, a VSMC-enriched lncRNA located upstream of MYOCD, exhibiting a strong positive expression correlation with MYOCD. Decreased CARDINAL expression was observed in atherosclerosis in both human and mouse models. Loss of CARDINAL induced phenotypic modulation in human VSMCs and promoted injury-induced neointima formation in mice. Gain-of-function of CARDINAL drove human VSMCs towards a contractile phenotype by activating MYOCD expression in a cis-regulatory manner. Mechanistically, CARDINAL recruited the ATAC histone acetyltransferase complex to the MYOCD promoter by interacting with the histone reader ZZZ3. Subsequently, the complex increased histone acetylation at H3K4 and H3K9, thus activating the MYOCD promoter. Consequently, CARDINAL upregulated the expression of MYOCD and downstream contractile-related genes.These findings unveil the importance of CARDINAL as a key lncRNA regulator of VSMC phenotype alteration and highlight its potential as an RNA target for therapeutic application in vascular diseases.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Many invertebrates lack erythrocytes and instead rely on extracellular hemoglobin assemblies, termed erythrocruorins, for oxygen transport. Here we report a 2.84 Å cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) structure of Perinereis linea erythrocruorin (PlEc). PlEc is a ∼3.3 MDa megacomplex composed of 180 polypeptide chains organized into 12 protomers, forming a hexagonal bilayer with D6 symmetry. Each protomer consists of 12 globin subunits and three linker subunits, adopting a mushroom-like architecture. The cap of the mushroom is formed by a globin dodecamer associated with a heterotrimeric linker head, and the stem consists of a triple-stranded coiled coil derived from the N-terminal helices of three linker subunits. Biochemical assays show that PlEc has thermal stability and auto-oxidation rate comparable to those of other erythrocruorins, but displays relatively lower oxygen-binding affinity. These findings provide mechanistic insights into the quaternary assembly of invertebrate erythrocruorins and lay the groundwork for the potential biomedical applications.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is often accompanied by symptoms of gastric dysmotility, such as gastroparesis. Gastroparesis not only seriously affects the life quality of PD patients, but also causes fluctuations in drug absorption rate, exacerbating the motor symptoms of PD. The previous studies of our laboratory have shown that PD model rats also exhibit gastroparesis, with increased pro-inflammatory cytokines in the gastric muscularis. The markers of related neurons were abnormal. Additionally, the contractile protein markers, as well as their transcriptional regulators, were reduced in smooth muscle cells (SMCs). Continuous gastric feeding of Qizhiweitong particles (QZWT) for seven days improved gastric motility in PD rats with gastroparesis by suppressing inflammation. However, whether QZWT can restore neurons in the gastric muscularis and the differentiated phenotype of SMCs remains to be further investigated. In this study, we detected expressions of neuronal markers in the gastric muscularis and contractile markers of SMCs by immunofluorescence staining, Western blotting, and real-time quantitative PCR, and observed the ultrastructure of SMCs by transmission electron microscopy techniques, aiming to explore the potential mechanisms underlying the improvement effect of QZWT on gastric dysmotility in PD rats and provide new ideas for the treatment of PD gastroparesis. Our results showed that after QZWT administration, there was no change in neuronal markers tyrosine hydroxylase, choline acetyltransferase, and neuronal nitric oxide synthase in the muscular layer of gastric corpus of the PD gastroparesis rats. However, compared to the PD rats, the protein and mRNA expression levels of myosin heavy chain 11 and myosin light chain 20 were significantly up-regulated in the smooth muscle layer of gastric corpus of PD rats with QZWT treatment. Furthermore, the protein and mRNA expression levels of serum response factor (SRF), which regulates the transcription of SMC contractile protein genes, as well as the mRNA level of the transcription related cofactor myocardin (MYOCD), were significantly up-regulated. In addition, the ultrastructure feature of gastric corpus showed that the morphology of SMCs in the PD rats with QZWT treatment was improved, displaying clear dense patches and dense bodies. The vacuoles in the SMCs disappeared. These results suggest that QZWT treatment up-regulates the expression of SRF and MYOCD, which may be associated with its effect of inhibiting inflammation, and further increases the expression of contractile proteins and restores the morphology of the SMCs, promoting gastric smooth muscle contractions in PD gastroparesis rats, thereby leading to improved gastric motility.
Pulmonary stenosis (PS) is a common form of congenital heart disease (CHD) that impairs cardiopulmonary function and can be life-threatening in severe cases. As a complex polygenic disorder, the genetic basis of PS remains incompletely understood.Rare pathogenic single nucleotide variants (SNVs) were identified from whole-exome sequencing (WES) data of 185 sporadic PS patients and 100 healthy controls using multiple pathogenicity-filtering strategies. Gene-level burden test was performed, with complementary analysis using sequence kernel association test-optimal (SKAT-O). Three machine learning algorithms-least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO), random forest (RF), and extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost)-were applied to prioritize candidate genes. The overlap between machine learning-based selections and burden test results was systematically evaluated. Final candidate genes were further prioritized through protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis, and their expression in human pulmonary artery endothelial cells (HPAECs) was assessed by reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR).Comparative analyses showed that different machine learning algorithms exhibited distinct feature selection patterns, with RF demonstrating the highest concordance with burden test results. A total of 17 candidate genes were prioritized (HAND2, SETD2, KDM6B, NCOR2, FLNB, NOTCH3, DNAH5, PLEC, COL5A1, KIF7, CLTCL1, XRN1, ITPR2, SCRIB, PYGB, IQGAP3, and SHC2).These findings indicate that machine learning can complement conventional gene-based analyses of WES data. This study provides a set of candidate genes associated with PS and offers a basis for further investigation of its genetic architecture.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Chen, Liang, Huang, Zhang, Liu, Yang, Zhao, Xu and Wu.
Interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) is a powerful transactivating signal eliciting hundreds of IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs) in humans to help combat infection. Most ISGs remain uncharacterized, and here we searched for actin-binding candidates that could potentially target intracellular pathogens to block their spread or promote immune cell migration into infected tissues. Dual RNA-Seq and in silico mining across 1,933 data sets discovered >225 actin-related genes; the most highly expressed was XIRP1 (xin actin binding repeat containing 1 protein), a new ISG with no reported immune function. We found XIRP1 induction required IFN-γ plus IL-1β or exposure to pathogenic Listeria, Shigella, or Salmonella in immune and non-immune cells. Within IFN-γ-activated human macrophages, the XIRP1 protein localized to actin-rich podosomes where it formed a dome-shaped cap facing the cytosol; genetic XIRP1 ablation led to significant actin loss from these structures. Within infected cells, XIRP1 was recruited onto cytosolic Listeria monocytogenes in an ActA-dependent manner. Live imaging found many listeriae were fully encapsulated by XIRP1 whereas incomplete XIRP1 coating allowed pathogen escape from the initial coat structure. Together, our results identify XIRP1 as a new podosome-associated ISG that targets cytosolic bacteria as part of the IFN-γ-induced defense program in humans.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42550686
Myotonic Dystrophy Type 1 (DM1) is a multisystemic neuromuscular disease characterized by severe skeletal muscle dysfunction. The etiology of DM1 is primarily driven by RNA toxicity resulting from a gain-of-function mutation in DMPK mRNAs. Beyond this hallmark, DM1 is also characterized by the repression of the AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) pathway. Previous work has shown that targeting AMPK represents a novel therapeutic avenue for DM1. In this study, we investigated the therapeutic potential of novel AMPK activators derived from Momordica charantia (bitter melon). A screen of 26 bitter melon-derived compounds (BMCs) in C2C12 myotubes identified BMC-25 as a potent AMPK activator. Acute treatment of DM1 (HSALR) mice with BMC-25 induced an expected activation of AMPK in DM1 mice, while chronic treatment restored several DM1 histopathological features, including toxic ribonuclear foci. Interestingly, BMC-25 treatment induced distinct, sex-dependent molecular benefits. In female DM1 mice, BMC-25 treatment corrected the pattern of expression of RNA-binding proteins including CELF1, MBNL1, and Staufen1 in skeletal muscle and achieved a much greater correction of alternative splicing of multiple transcripts relative to their respective controls. In contrast, male DM1 mice exhibited very limited improvements in these parameters. Collectively, our findings indicate that sustained AMPK activation with BMC-25 confers multifaceted benefits to DM1 skeletal muscle by improving core DM1 pathogenic features in a sex-dependent manner. Finally, these results highlight the potential of natural compounds like BMCs as novel, promising and accessible therapeutics for the DM1 muscle pathology.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) is a key regulator of cellular adaptation to reduced oxygen availability. Chronic intermittent hypoxia (CIH), characterized by recurrent cycles of hypoxia and reoxygenation, promotes oxidative stress and activates hypoxia-sensitive signaling pathways involved in ventilatory control. Luteolin-7-O-glucoside (luteolin), a flavonoid with antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, has been proposed as a potential modulator of HIF activity. This study evaluated the effects of a 7-day luteolin treatment on the ventilatory pattern and brainstem HIF expression in mice exposed to CIH, a model that mimics a hallmark feature of obstructive sleep apnea. Ventilation was assessed by whole-body plethysmography under baseline normoxic conditions and during an acute hypoxic challenge. Functional assessments revealed that luteolin administration significantly altered the baseline respiratory pattern, increasing the occurrence of apneas during baseline normoxic breathing in both the normoxic and CIH groups. Under baseline conditions, luteolin-treated CIH animals also exhibited a reduced respiratory frequency and an increased tidal volume, without significant changes in minute ventilation. Despite these alterations in baseline breathing, Luteolin treatment did not alter the acute hypoxic ventilatory response (HVR) in either experimental group. To investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying these ventilatory effects, brainstem analysis was performed. Luteolin treatment (10 μg/kg) reduced Hif1a and Epas1 mRNA expression in the brainstem and decreased the number of neurons exhibiting HIF-1α nuclear immunofluorescence within the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS). Additionally, luteolin reduced Nox4 expression in the brainstem while elevating nitrite levels, suggesting a direct modulation of redox-related pathways. Together, these findings indicate that luteolin alters the baseline respiratory pattern by increasing apnea occurrence in both normoxia and CIH groups under baseline normoxic conditions, an effect potentially linked to the downregulation of brainstem HIF expression and the modulation of local redox state, while the acute ventilatory response to hypoxia remains preserved.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42516068
Systemic hypoxia influences the state of the intestinal epithelial barrier and the microbiome; however, the role of the initial tolerance of the organism to oxygen deficiency in the development of these changes remains poorly studied. The aim of the study was to evaluate the colon histophysiological features and the gut microbiome in rats that were tolerant and susceptible to hypoxia under intermittent hypoxic exposure of varying severity. In male Wistar rats, tolerance to oxygen deficiency was determined according to the Hif1a, Epas1, and Hif3a expression levels in peripheral blood leukocytes, after which they were subjected to intermittent hypoxic exposure at an "altitude" of 5000 m or 7000 m for 1 h daily for 21 days. Subsequently, the state of the intestinal epithelial barrier was assessed using histological, histochemical, and immunohistochemical methods, and the microbiota composition was analyzed by PCR. Under normoxic conditions, in comparison with rats that are tolerant to hypoxia, susceptible animals demonstrated a greater volume fraction of goblet cells and a low abundance of Parabacteroides spp. Intermittent hypoxic exposure induced multidirectional changes depending on the initial tolerance and the severity of the regimen. In tolerant-to-hypoxia animals, an increase in the goblet cells volume fraction was detected after the exposure at the 5000 m "altitude", while at an "altitude" of 7000 m, a decrease in the number of cells in the lamina propria of the mucosa and Clostridium perfringens gr. abundance, as well as a reduction in the Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio, was observed. In susceptible-to-hypoxia animals, a higher abundance of Clostridium perfringens gr. in comparison with tolerant rats was revealed after the exposure at an "altitude" of 7000 m, with no structural changes in the intestinal wall. Thus, intermittent hypoxic exposure led to a rearrangement of the gut microbiome and the morphofunctional characteristics of the intestinal barrier, and the severity of these changes depended on the initial tolerance of the organism to oxygen deficiency and the severity of the hypoxic regime, which should be taken into account when conducting biomedical research.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42503878
Infantile hemangioma (IH) is the most common benign tumor of infancy. Hypoxia and activation of hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) signaling have been proposed to contribute to IH pathogenesis, yet the role of endothelial PAS domain-containing protein 1 (EPAS1), which encodes hypoxia-inducible factor-2α (HIF-2α), in hemangioma endothelial cells (HemECs) remains less well characterized. Here, we investigated HIF-2α in primary HemECs using a pharmacological inhibitor (PT-2399) and shRNA-mediated EPAS1 knockdown under normoxic and hypoxic conditions. In hypoxic cultures, PT-2399 treatment was associated with reduced migration and invasion and with a reduction in junction number in tube formation assays; at the selected dose, PT-2399 did not significantly reduce cell viability. By contrast, EPAS1 knockdown was associated with reduced proliferative capacity and altered cell cycle distribution, together with enrichment of DNA replication/cell cycle-related transcriptional programs, negative enrichment of MYC- and E2F-related gene sets, and directionally consistent protein level changes in selected regulators. EPAS1 knockdown-associated phenotypic trends were broadly similar under normoxia and hypoxia, with no clear evidence that hypoxic stimulation enhanced the magnitude of these changes. In IH tissue transcriptomic data, Egl-9 family hypoxia-inducible factor 3 (EGLN3) showed reduced expression, consistent with a testable hypothesis that hypoxia-independent mechanisms may contribute to maintenance of HIF-2α activity in this context. This study is limited by the use of HemECs derived from a single IH specimen and by the absence of on-target validation; accordingly, the findings should be interpreted as exploratory and hypothesis-generating.Copyright: © 2026 Su et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
To analyze the inhibitory effect of carbon ion (C-ion) radiation-induced biological effects on the proliferation of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) by multi-omics integration.We investigated C-ion radiation effects on LUAD cellular responses using A549 and LLC cell lines. Clonogenic survival assays, DNA damage, and metastasis quantified radiation sensitivity, while a multi-cell co-culture system (A549/Beas-2B/LLC/MLE-12) differentiated direct vs. bystander effects. Integrated transcriptomics and targeted metabolomics identified radiation-responsive genes/metabolites, with pathway analysis conducted through MetaboAnalyst 6.0. Clinical relevance of CPT1, GCH1, and EPAS1 was assessed using UCSC Xena and Kaplan-Meier Plotter survival data. Radiation-induced molecular changes were validated by RT-qPCR and immunoblotting across cell types. An A549 tumor-bearing mouse model was established, and the growth and tumor size of the tumor-bearing mice were observed after irradiation with C-ions. Blood was taken from mice after anesthesia and necropsy to detect changes in the major differential metabolism factor arachidonic acid (AA), and tumor tissues were examined to detect changes in the expression of CPT1, GCH1, and EPAS1 in the tissues.C-ion irradiation exerts a dual anti-proliferative effect on lung adenocarcinoma cells: it directly induces DNA damage (increased γ-H2AX/53BP1 foci), suppresses clonogenic survival, and inhibits tumor cell migration and invasion (p < 0.05); meanwhile, it amplifies the bystander effect from co-cultured normal cells through metabolic reprogramming, thereby enhancing overall cytotoxicity. Transcriptomic-metabolomic integration identified CPT1, GCH1, and EPAS1 as central regulators of radiation-induced metabolic suppression, with AA, 3-hydroxytetradecanoic acid, and 2-methylglutaric acid constituting critical downstream mediators. Database analysis revealed that the differential expression of CPT1, GCH1, and EPAS1 was correlated with the prognostic survival status of patients with lung adenocarcinoma. Carbon ion irradiation downregulated the expression of GCH1 and upregulated CPT1 and EPAS1. Animal experiments demonstrated that carbon ions markedly inhibited tumor proliferation in tumor-bearing mice. The level of arachidonic acid in mouse blood was significantly increased (p < 0.05). Carbon ion radiation suppressed GCH1 expression and promoted the expression of CPT1 and EPAS1 in tumor tissues (p < 0.05).C-ion irradiation suppresses lung adenocarcinoma through a dual mechanism involving direct induction of cellular DNA damage and a metabolically enhanced bystander effect, driven by the CPT1/GCH1/EPAS1 regulatory axis, with arachidonic acid serving as a key downstream mediator.Copyright © 2026 Yang, Feng, Ma, Wang, Sun, Liu, Tian, Geng and Zhang.
Electrochemical aptamer-based biosensors (E-ABs) have emerged as powerful tools for biomolecular detection, yet limited insight into binding-induced conformational dynamics has constrained their development to more efficient E-ABs. Here, we present a strategy that integrates in-silico docking with electrochemical nanoarchitecture engineering to identify optimal aptamer-target binding sites, thereby guiding the rational placement of redox labels to enhance analytical performance. Three E-AB electrodes were fabricated, each with a methylene blue placed at distinct sites within the aptamer. Electrochemical analysis revealed that the spatial positioning of redox labels critically governs the biosensing performance by modulating both binding affinity and signal transduction efficiency. Circular dichroism (CD) spectroscopy was further employed to investigate conformational changes in the engineered aptamers upon interaction with CD63, an exosomal biomarker. Notably, the configuration with a redox label positioned at the distal end achieved the lowest detection limit, the highest binding affinity, and robust performance in proof-of-concept biological models.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury (MIRI) remains a major clinical problem, and its regulatory mechanisms are not fully defined. This study aimed to identify key MIRI-related targets and clarify their roles in cellular and animal models.Differentially expressed genes in MIRI were screened using the GEO dataset GSE6381, and core genes were identified through protein-protein interaction analysis and weighted gene co-expression network analysis. External datasets GSE249812 and GSE123342 were used to validate core gene expression. Transcription factors regulating cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) were predicted using the KnockTF database. In AC16 cells, an oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/OGR) model was established. Microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF) was knocked down or overexpressed, CFTR was silenced or overexpressed, and cell viability, proliferation, apoptosis, and NO/L-arginine/citrulline levels were assessed. The MITF-CFTR interaction was examined by dual-luciferase assay and chromatin immunoprecipitation-quantitative PCR (ChIP-qPCR). A rat ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) model was used to evaluate the effects of MITF silencing and CFTR rescue on cardiac injury.A total of 42 core genes related to MIRI were identified. CFTR showed consistent upregulation across datasets and was linked to pathways including arginine biosynthesis. CFTR-related transcription factors included MITF, TP53, and STAT3, but ChIP-qPCR showed detectable enrichment only for MITF at the CFTR promoter. In AC16 cells, CFTR protein increased during early reoxygenation. OGD/OGR elevated CFTR and MITF, while MITF knockdown or CFTR silencing further reduced cell viability and proliferation, increased apoptosis, and was accompanied by lower NO and citrulline levels and higher L-arginine levels. MITF overexpression showed the opposite trend, and CFTR overexpression partially reversed the effects of MITF deficiency. In vivo, MITF knockdown aggravated cardiac dysfunction, increased CK and CK-MB levels, worsened tissue injury, and elevated cleaved caspase-3 after I/R, whereas CFTR overexpression partly improved these changes.MITF regulates CFTR expression in MIRI, and disruption of the MITF-CFTR axis is associated with aggravated injury in cellular and animal models. Restoring CFTR partially mitigates MITF deficiency-related damage. These findings support the involvement of MITF-CFTR regulation in MIRI and provide a basis for further mechanistic investigation.© 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Gene Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
During long-term artificial selection, China has developed indigenous dairy goat populations with breed-specific traits and environmental adaptability. However, the genetic relationships and genomic characteristics of these populations remain insufficiently studied.We analyzed 270 whole-genome sequences from 16 goat breeds, including eight Chinese dairy breeds, four introduced dairy breeds, and four other breeds. Population structure analysis revealed significant genetic differentiation among Chinese, European, and African dairy goats. Different dairy goat breeds in China formed geographically distinct subclusters, and multiple gene flow events with introduced breeds were detected. Compared with European and African populations, Chinese dairy goats exhibited higher genetic diversity, lower genomic inbreeding levels, and faster linkage disequilibrium decay. Among five machine learning algorithms evaluated across 10 repeated validations, k-nearest neighbors (KNN) showed the best performance (accuracy = 0.981, AUC = 0.991), and a minimal 134-SNP panel was selected for accurate classification of Chinese dairy goat breeds. Genome-environment association analyses identified candidate genes associated with energy and lipid metabolism, stress response, reproduction, and immune function, with a missense variant in HDAC10 (chr5:118557145 A > G) showing significant differentiation among Chinese dairy goat populations from different regions. Selection signature and genome-wide association analyses identified candidate genes associated with horn type and coat color, including two missense mutations in ERG (chr1:149921788 C > G) and MITF (chr22:31686241 T > C).These findings systematically reveal the genetic structure and genomic characteristics of Chinese dairy goats, providing an important scientific basis for genetic improvement, breed identification, and the conservation of dairy goat genetic resources.© 2026. The Author(s).
Targeted kinase inhibitors induce marked tumor regressions but are limited by the emergence of drug-tolerant residual disease and resistance. Although tumor-intrinsic and adaptive immune mechanisms have been extensively studied, a better understanding of the contribution of innate immunity to targeted therapy durability is needed to devise optimal treatment strategies. Here, we showed that natural killer (NK) cells constrain targeted therapy resistance and identified a regression-associated macrophage program that promotes NK cell recruitment. In immunocompetent melanoma models that recapitulate patient treatment trajectories, tumor regression was characterized by robust NK infiltration, which transitioned to an NK-excluded residual state preceding resistance. A regression-associated macrophage subset (F4/80hiCCL5⁺MHCII⁺CD63⁺) contributed to NK cell recruitment via CCR2/5 signaling. Genetic depletion of macrophages using LysM-cre;iDTR mice impaired NK cell infiltration. Pharmacologic inhibition of PTPN22, a negative regulator of immune activation, reprogrammed the residual tumor microenvironment, restored NK cell recruitment, and delayed resistance onset. Analysis of patient tumor datasets from melanoma and lung cancer revealed concordant NK dynamics during therapy, linking this innate immune program to clinical outcomes. These findings identify innate immune remodeling as a key contributor to targeted therapy durability and identify NK cell recruitment, promoted in part by regression-associated macrophages, as a therapeutically actionable node for extending durability of response across oncogene-driven cancers.
Chronic wound healing disorders remain a significant clinical challenge, largely due to the limited effectiveness of conventional therapeutic strategies. Emerging evidence suggests that engineered exosomes represent a promising cell-free therapeutic approach. This study aimed to elucidate the mechanisms by which fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21)-modified adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cell (ADSC) exosomes promote wound healing.ADSCs overexpressing FGF21 were established using genetic engineering, and FGF21-enriched exosomes (Exo@FGF21) were isolated and characterized using transmission electron microscopy and nanoparticle tracking analysis. The biological effects of Exo@FGF21 on human skin fibroblasts (HSFs) were assessed through proliferation, migration, invasion, and apoptosis assays. Glycolytic activity, glucose consumption, lactate production, ATP levels, and hydroxyproline content were evaluated to investigate metabolic changes. Mechanistic studies involved pharmacological inhibition of AMPK and knockdown of PFKFB3. Therapeutic efficacy was further examined in a mouse full-thickness skin defect model.Exo@FGF21 exhibited typical exosomal morphology with diameters ranging from 80 to 150 nm and expressed canonical exosomal markers CD9 and CD63. In vitro, Exo@FGF21 significantly enhanced fibroblast proliferation, migration, and invasion, promoted collagen synthesis-related gene expression (COL1A1, COL3A1, FN1), and reduced apoptosis. Mechanistically, Exo@FGF21 activated AMPK, suppressed mTOR signaling, and upregulated PFKFB3 expression. Both AMPK inhibition and PFKFB3 knockdown markedly attenuated these pro-repair effects. Metabolic analyses demonstrated enhanced glycolysis, increased glucose utilization, elevated lactate production, and augmented ATP and hydroxyproline levels, indicating glycolytic metabolic reprogramming. In vivo, Exo@FGF21 accelerated wound closure, promoted epidermal regeneration, enhanced collagen deposition, and activated the AMPK/mTOR/PFKFB3 pathway.FGF21-modified ADSC-derived exosomes promote wound healing by inducing fibroblast glycolytic metabolic reprogramming via the AMPK/mTOR/PFKFB3 signaling axis. These findings provide novel mechanistic insights and support the therapeutic potential of engineered exosome-based strategies for chronic wound repair.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Increasing evidence suggests extracellular vesicles (EVs) are key components of liquid biopsies to aid cancer diagnosis and treatment selection, if their collection can be translated to clinical settings. Size exclusion chromatography (SEC) is relatively simple, fast, and cost-effective, but its potential for "real-world" EVs collection for cancer diagnoses is unknown. Here we aimed to critically evaluate SEC using clinically-relevant plasma volumes and across a range of common cancer types that are frequently diagnosed too late. EVs were collected, using qEV70 or qEV35 SEC columns, from duplicate aliquots of n = 43 plasma samples procured at diagnosis with lung, ovarian, or gastric cancers and characterised on multiple parameters, seeking correlations with patients clinicopathological information. To investigate potential diagnostic relevance, EVs were collected in the same way from n = 10 plasma samples from healthy donors. We found that SEC has many attributes indicating that it is translatable to real-world clinical utility. With both SEC types, relatively large quantities of EVs were successfully collected from small plasma volumes for all three cancer types. No significant differences existed between qEV70 and qEV35 particle sizes, structure, and EVs markers. EVs in qEV35 isolates versus qEV70 isolates had reduced purity and/or increased protein corona, but both isolates revealed clinical correlations. Importantly, depending on the cancer type(s), results suggested that the EVs isolates at the time of cancer diagnosis may inform on lymph node-positivity and advanced stage, and may be prognostic for shorter time to disease progression. Furthermore, analysis of plasma CD63+ EVs and CD81+ EVs appears to have diagnostic relevance, due to their typically significantly greater quantities in cancer types compared to healthy controls. Altogether, SEC shows promise as a potential approach for clinical EVs collection as liquid biopsies and correlations between plasma EVs quantities with a range of clinicopathological characteristics suggests this would be worthwhile.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Lysosomal dysfunction in myeloid cells is increasingly implicated in neurodegenerative diseases. To examine the interplay between lysosomal health and cellular state, we performed multi-omic profiling of myeloid cells from brains of aged mice lacking progranulin (Grn-/- mice), a lysosomal protein linked to neurodegeneration. Single-cell RNA sequencing identified a microglial subpopulation defined by GPNMB expression, which displays hallmarks of lysosomal stress, including altered lysosomal protein expression, lipofuscinosis, and metabolic and lipid dysregulation. Epigenetic profiling of Grn-/- microglia revealed an enrichment of MITF/TFE transcription factor motifs at active enhancers, and deletion of these factors reversed the Grn-/--specific myeloid cell transcriptional signature. Diverse lysosomal perturbations drove a common transcriptional and functional signature, with conditions that induce lysosomal deacidification closely phenocopying progranulin deficiency. Finally, compensatory GPNMB induction in Grn-/- myeloid cells promoted lysosomal acidification, and loss of myeloid cell GPNMB exacerbated neurotoxicity. Our findings link lysosomal health with epigenetic, transcriptional, and functional myeloid cell states associated with neurodegeneration.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Lysosomal dysfunction is causally linked to neurodegeneration in many lysosomal storage disorders and is associated with various age-related neurodegenerative diseases. Here, we investigated the question of underlying mechanisms using a mouse model of mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIA caused by deficiency of the lysosomal hydrolase SGSH. Systematic imaging and transcriptomic and epigenetic studies revealed microglia to be the most profoundly impacted cell type in brains of Sgsh-deficient mice. Further investigation identified dominant and context-dependent roles of members of the MITF/TFE family as major drivers of microglia-specific epigenetic and transcriptional changes resulting from lysosomal stress that are dependent on collaborative interactions with AP-1/ATF, C/EBP, and PU.1/ETS transcription factors. Features of the transcriptomic and epigenetic alterations observed in murine Sgsh deficiency were also observed in microglia derived from mouse models of age-related neurodegeneration and in human Alzheimer's disease patients. These findings reveal common and disease-specific transcriptional mechanisms associated with disease-associated microglia phenotypes.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To address the limited tissue specificity of extracellular vesicles (EVs) derived from blood and other body fluids, this study isolated small EVs (sEVs) from the tissue interstitial fluid (TIF) of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and adjacent tissues. The expression profiles of non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) were analyzed to identify more specific diagnostic biomarkers.An optimized protocol for TIF-sEV extraction was established, which combined enzymatic digestion (Collagenase D and DNase I) with differential and ultracentrifugation. The isolated sEVs were characterized using nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and western blotting (WB). The expression of 33 candidate ncRNAs (11 lncRNAs from TCGA-LIHC and 22 miRNAs from TCGA-LIHC and GSE302990) in TIF-sEVs was analyzed by qRT-PCR and integrated with clinical parameters via LASSO regression.The optimal extraction conditions were determined to be digestion with Collagenase D (2 mg/mL) and DNase I (40 U/mL) for 30 minutes. The obtained EVs exhibited typical morphology, a particle size below 200 nm, and expressed canonical EV marker proteins (ALIX, CD63) as well as the hepatocyte-specific membrane protein ASGPR. qRT-PCR analysis revealed specific enrichment of six lncRNAs (e.g., AL031985, TMCC1-AS1) and eleven miRNAs (e.g., miR-1224-5p, miR-483-5p) in TIF-sEVs. LASSO regression applied to all 33 candidate ncRNAs and clinical parameters identified a combined diagnostic signature comprising ALB, PLT, DBIL, lncRNA GAS5, and miR-194-5p, which achieved an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.960.This study establishes an efficient and stable system for the isolation and characterization of TIF-sEVs from liver tissue. Furthermore, it identifies multiple non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) that are enriched in TIF-sEVs, thereby providing potential novel diagnostic biomarkers for the differential diagnosis and prognosis evaluation of HCC.Copyright: © 2026 Liu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are central mediators of intercellular communication that originate from diverse membrane reservoirs. EV biogenesis can occur via multiple pathways, including outward budding of the plasma membrane (PM) and fusion of mature endosomes with the PM. The present study investigates how cells balance these competing routes using a genome-wide CRISPR activation screen for factors that alter surface expression of CD63-an EV-associated tetraspanin that shuttles between the PM and endosomes. This unbiased strategy identifies the membrane adaptor MARCKSL1 known to be upregulated across diverse tumor types. Overexpression of MARCKSL1 elevates CD63 abundance at the PM and boosts EV secretion. Proximity-based proteomics implicates the cytoskeleton-PM linker Radixin and the SNARE-associated protein STXBP3 as MARCKSL1 binding partners that respectively promote either PM-derived or endosome-derived EV secretion. Collectively, our findings reveal new insights into PM remodeling and position MARCKSL1 as a gauge between distinct EV biogenesis platforms.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Although chromosome 14q deletion (14q-) is present in up to 40% of clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) cases, its immunologic and molecular impact remains unclear. Because TRAF3 and NFΚBIA, key regulators of nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB) signaling, are located on 14q, we hypothesize that 14q- in ccRCC promotes increased inflammation and unique determinants of immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) response.We collected data from 825 patients with ccRCC from publicly available sources, our own independent retrospective study, and the Oncology Research Information Exchange Network. These data include bulk RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq), single-cell RNA-seq (scRNA-seq), and whole exome sequencing (WES). We also include reverse phase protein array from DepMap cell lines (n=277). Next, we performed multiplex immunofluorescence for spatial analysis of immune cells on 23 patient slides with paired WES and ICB response. Finally, progression-free survival, 14q- status (assessed in bulk RNA-seq or whole exome sequencing), and kidney inflammatory marker EDNRB expression were assessed in two independent ICB immunotherapy trials.14q- status is associated with increased NF-κB-target transcription and p65 phosphorylation. Tumor scRNA-seq revealed increased expression of CCL20, an NF-κB target and lymphotactic protein. Simultaneously, single-cell and bulk RNA-seq demonstrated higher effector CD8+T cell infiltration in 14q- tumors compared with controls. We investigated myeloid panel mIF images from 14q- tumors and found dendritic cells (DCs) significantly aggregate with tumor cells in ICB responders compared with non-responders. Cell-cell communication analysis on DCs and tumor cells from a 14q- responder revealed tumor-derived EDN1 is uniquely interacting with EDNRB on DCs. In two ICB trials, 14q- combined with elevated EDNRB expression correlated with significantly improved progression-free survival.This is the first evidence that 14q- in ccRCC is associated with an antitumor inflammatory phenotype, possibly driven by aberrant NF-κB activation. Furthermore, 14q- with high EDNRB expression (EDNRB+) may serve as a predictive biomarker for ICB response in ccRCC. Finally, our results indicate patients with 14q-/EDNRB- may respond poorly to immunotherapy and new treatment options should be explored for this cohort.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42526787 is a review article
Primordial germ cells (PGCs) are the earliest precursors of gametes and essential cellular materials for poultry germplasm conservation and genetic modification. In this study, PGCs isolated from 2.5-day male and female Silkie chicken embryos were defined as circulating PGCs (cPGC_M and cPGC_F), whereas PGCs isolated from 8.5-day male and female embryos were defined as gonad-derived PGCs (gPGC_M and gPGC_F). RNA sequencing with three biological replicates per group was performed to characterize developmental-stage- and sex-associated transcriptional programs. Comparative transcriptomic analyses identified stage-associated differences in pathways related to cell-matrix interaction, focal adhesion, PI3K-Akt signaling, and stem cell pluripotency, with more differentially expressed genes detected in the female than in the male stage comparison. Sex-biased expression was detectable at the circulating stage, mainly reflecting W- and Z-linked expression differences, and the number of sex-biased genes was greater after gonadal colonization, primarily because more autosomal differentially expressed genes were detected. Candidate genes and pathways, including HINTW, DMRT1, SOX2, EDNRB, LPAR4, GFRA3, ECM-receptor interaction, ribosome-related modules, and calcium signaling, were associated with these comparisons and are presented as targets for future validation rather than as confirmed regulators. Because the study used three biological replicates per group, RT-qPCR corroboration was limited to six female stage-associated genes, and no functional perturbation assays were performed, the findings are descriptive and do not establish causal mechanisms of PGC migration, gonadal colonization, or sex differentiation. Within these limitations, the dataset provides an exploratory resource for subsequent studies of chicken PGC biology and biotechnology.
Oculocutaneous albinism (OCA) is a group of genetic disorders characterized by impaired melanin production, leading to reduced pigmentation in the skin, hair, and eyes. Xiphophorus, a genus of small freshwater fish, has been a pivotal model organism in pigmentation disorder research, providing key findings in the genetic pathways governing physiological and pathological pigment cell biology. Leveraging the well-established research framework provided by Xiphophorus, we have identified a spontaneously occurring albinism phenotype in swordtail fish Xiphophorus hellerii. Genetic mapping of albino fish showed that albinism is associated with a recessive mutation in the oca2 gene. This discovery provides a novel opportunity to explore functions of the oca2 gene in pigment cell differentiation, pigment synthesis, melanosome assembly and transportation function, and amelanotic melanoma development.© 2026 The Author(s). Pigment Cell & Melanoma Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Advances in DNA sequencing technology are increasing the rate of molecular diagnosis for patients and families with inherited Mendelian diseases. However, some patients remain unsolved following standard-of-care testing (typically either exome or genome sequencing), with structural variants (SVs) likely to account for a significant proportion of these missed diagnoses. We re-analysed ten research cases with the visual disorder foveal hypoplasia (FH) that were previously unsolved through whole exome sequencing (WES). We used SVRare, a tool that integrates outputs from Canvas and Manta and combines these with allele frequencies and information regarding their genomic context to highlight plausible pathogenic SVs. This analysis solved 2/10 cases. Expanding this strategy, we then used SVRare in a reverse genetics approach to analyse an FH-relevant gene panel in the 100,000 Genomes Project (100KGP) rare disease cohort. This identified potentially pathogenic SVs as the cause of disease in a further 11 previously unsolved cases with phenotypes overlapping FH. In total, 11 SVs in five genes were identified as the likely cause of FH in 13 patients: SLC38A8 (1 patient), PAX6 (3), OCA2 (3), GPR143 (5) and CACNA1F (1). This analysis also identified multiple carriers of an apparently novel deletion in OCA2. However, further analysis suggested that this is, in fact, the relatively common founder variant responsible for oculocutaneous albinism (OCA) in African populations, first identified over 30 years ago. These findings show that SVRare effectively identifies deleterious SVs and illustrates the challenges in reporting SVs, including the importance of accurate and consistent reporting of such variants.© 2026. The Author(s).
Predicting small molecule-protein interactions across nonhomologous proteins remains challenging because shared ligand recognition is often not evident from sequence, fold, or pocket similarity. Here, we introduce pocket hopping, a machine-learning framework that learns residue-level interaction patterns from coligand binding pockets and infers compatibility between nonhomologous pockets for similar chemotypes. Using shared ligands as supervision rather than explicit geometric alignment, pocket hopping identifies pocket relationships that are not readily captured by conventional chemical-, sequence-, or structure-based comparisons. In two case studies, pocket hopping demonstrates broad utility in drug discovery by enabling de novo hit identification and mechanistic interpretation, identifying fedratinib and its analogues as helicase WRN inhibitors. The model also identified the clinical-stage HDAC inhibitor abexinostat as a direct ENPP1 binder and inhibitor, and cellular assays showed enhanced cGAMP-STING signaling under cGAMP stimulation. Together, these results indicate that pocket-level compatibility can complement existing approaches for target identification, hit discovery, and polypharmacology analysis.
Hirschsprung-associated enterocolitis, a lethal complication of Hirschsprung's disease-a prevalent congenital disorder with high morbidity-has a poorly understood pathogenesis. We investigated how aberrant immune-stromal crosstalk drives mucosal injury in Hirschsprung's disease.Integrated single-cell RNA sequencing, spatial transcriptomics, bulk RNA sequencing, and proteomics were performed using human Hirschsprung's disease tissues. Validation was conducted using murine Hirschsprung-associated enterocolitis (Ednrb-/-) models, flow cytometry, multiplex immunohistochemistry, in vitro B-cell stimulation, epithelial coculture, rescue experiments with the thymic stromal lymphopoietin inhibitor baicalein, and ex vivo intestinal organoid assays.We identified significant expansion and hyperactivation of B cells that colocalized with epithelial barrier defects in Hirschsprung's disease segments. Multiomics analysis revealed an activated phenotype in these naive and memory B cells, characterized by the upregulation of B lymphocyte kinase, B cell linker, and proliferating cell nuclear antigen, which may contribute to impaired epithelial homeostasis. Crucially, we identified profibrotic thymic stromal lymphopoietin+ fibroblasts enriched in Hirschsprung's disease. Spatial mapping and in vitro assays demonstrated that thymic stromal lymphopoietin potently activated B cells, synergizing with classical stimuli to enhance proliferation. Activated B cells, in turn, secreted proinflammatory factors, such as, ICAM1 and CCL5, which induced epithelial apoptosis, suppressed proliferation, and disrupted tight junctions-effects that were amplified by thymic stromal lymphopoietin costimulation. Activated B cells and epithelial dysfunction were conserved in Hirschsprung-associated enterocolitis (Ednrb-/-) mouse models. Coculture and ex vivo organoid experiments confirmed that thymic stromal lymphopoietin-activated B cells directly destabilized epithelial homeostasis; crucially, baicalein treatment rescued epithelial proliferation, attenuated apoptosis, and reduced inflammation-associated gene expression.Our study reveals a novel pathogenic mechanism whereby thymic stromal lymphopoietin instigates pathogenic B-cell hyperactivation, thereby disrupting epithelial integrity and increasing susceptibility to Hirschsprung-associated enterocolitis. Inhibition of thymic stromal lymphopoietin signaling with baicalein ameliorates epithelial injury, highlighting this axis as a promising therapeutic target for Hirschsprung-associated enterocolitis prevention in patients with Hirschsprung's disease.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The oculocutaneous albinism 2 protein is required for melanin synthesis in vertebrates and its loss of function leads to one of the most common forms of skin and eye albinism, Oculocutaneous albinism (OCA). Using a zebrafish disease model for OCA2, we explore developmental explanations for pleiotropic traits observed in humans with OCA2. At multiple stages, we find that oca2 mutant zebrafish exhibit abnormal number and location of iridophores, an accessory pigment cell type that arises from neural crest cells in fish and amphibians. In addition, oca2 mutants display defects during eye development including delayed choroid fissure closure and significant changes in retinal cell differentiation and organization. Our transcriptomic analysis of oca2 mutants revealed alterations in gene networks involved in differentiation of neural crest cells, retinal neurons, and the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) including Notch and Wnt/β-catenin pathway genes. Together, our data provide information about developmental consequences of oca2 mutation and support the possibility that the Oca2 protein may function in neural crest differentiation and eye development.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Junken meat sheep exhibit a characteristic postnatal coat-color transition, in which the initially black fleece gradually fades and develops into a white-trunk phenotype; however, the transcriptional basis of this developmental change in follicular pigment output remains unclear. In this study, three Junken meat sheep lambs showing a natural postnatal black-to-white coat-color transition were sampled longitudinally at the newborn black-fleece stage and the 179-day white-trunk stage, generating three matched biological pairs for RNA-seq analysis. Representative candidate genes were further validated by RT-qPCR. Differential expression analysis identified 1657, 400, and 1086 differentially expressed genes in the C11 vs. C1, C22 vs. C2, and C33 vs. C3 comparisons, respectively. Functional enrichment analysis indicated that these genes were mainly associated with tyrosine metabolism, ECM-receptor interaction, focal adhesion, Phosphoinositide 3-kinase-Akt signaling pathway (PI3K-Akt), arachidonic acid metabolism, estrogen signaling, and immune-related pathways. Integrated analysis of shared downregulated genes and expression patterns highlighted candidate genes related to pigmentation, the ECM/follicular microenvironment, and regulatory or metabolic processes. Pigmentation-related genes, including SOX10, TYR, TYRP1, PMEL, OCA2 and SLC45A2, were generally downregulated in 179-day white-trunk-stage skin, while changes in ECM- and metabolism-related genes suggested altered follicular microenvironmental regulation. These findings identify candidate transcriptional features associated with developmental coat-color fading in Junken meat sheep and support a follicular microenvironment-melanogenesis expression axis as a transcriptome-based framework for further investigation.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is the most common demyelinating disease of the central nervous system. Hirschsprung's disease is a condition characterized by absence of nerves in the intestines, secondary to failure of migration of neural crest cells therein. Co-occurrence of these conditions is reported previously in a family with a stop mutation in the EDNRB gene. In the present report we present the case of a 26-year-old man who presented with complaints of left facial weakness, episodic generalized headaches, and imbalance. He was previously diagnosed with Hirschsprung's disease and had undergone total colectomy. Subsequent evaluations confirmed MS. Family history was unremarkable, with no family members affected by either condition. Furthermore, we present our experience in managing the case with dimethyl fumarate disease-modifying therapy.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Case Reports published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Mitochondria are semi-autonomous organelles whose functions critically depend on nucleus-encoded proteins. TOM40 is the core β-barrel protein of the translocase of the outer mitochondrial membrane (TOM) complex that mediates the import of most nucleus-encoded mitochondrial proteins. Here, we show that the small GTPase RAB32 facilitates the mitochondrial localization of TOM40 and the mitochondrial protein homeostasis in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells. Accordingly, knockout of RAB32 results in mitochondrial dysfunction and inhibits NSCLC progression in xenograft and autochthonous NSCLC mouse models. We further identify ubiquitin-specific peptidase 13 (USP13) that removes the K48-linked polyubiquitin chains from RAB32 to prevent its proteasomal degradation. Consistently, knockout of USP13 causes destabilization of RAB32, impairs TOM40 mitochondrial localization and mitochondrial function, and inhibits NSCLC progression, which are restored by reconstitution of wild-type USP13 or RAB32, but not the catalytically inactive USP13C345A/M664/739E. Our study has revealed a previously uncharacterized RAB32-USP13 axis for mitochondrial functions and NSCLC progression.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to ADMC Associazione Differenziamento e Morte Cellulare.
The Rab32 antimicrobial pathway restricts Salmonella Typhi replication in murine macrophages. The broad-host pathogen Salmonella Typhimurium has evolved a solution to disrupt this pathway via effector proteins, including GtgE. The presence of a C-terminal CaaX motif in GtgE prompted the hypothesis that the effector was prenylated by the host. Here, we show that the CaaX motif enhances GtgE membrane association and intracellular targeting. Substitution of the C-terminal cysteine (C225S) caused diffused cytosolic distribution and loss of membrane enrichment. Inhibition of host isoprenoid biosynthesis or geranylgeranyl transferase I activity also disrupted GtgE localization. During infection, translocated GtgE was enriched in membrane fractions and accumulated around intracellular Salmonella in a pattern consistent with association to the Salmonella-containing vacuole, whereas the C225S variant showed reduced membrane association. These findings identify host prenylation as a mechanism that may direct GtgE to intracellular membranes where Rab32 is accessible for cleavage.
Liver cancer, particularly hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), is among the leading causes of cancer-related mortality worldwide, with drug resistance posing a significant therapeutic challenge. Therefore, overcoming this barrier is a critical step toward improving survival outcomes in patients with drug-resistant disease. Here, we demonstrate that the antidepressant imipramine effectively inhibits tumor growth in vitro and in vivo. Notably, imipramine enhances the anticancer efficacy of sorafenib, resulting in an additive suppression of tumor growth and cell migration. Moreover, imipramine treatment restores sensitivity in sorafenib-resistant hepatoma cells. RNA-sequencing analysis identified increased expression of BLOC1S5 in sorafenib-resistant cells compared to their parental counterparts. Functional assays indicated that overexpression of BLOC1S5 promotes tumor sphere formation, cell migration, sorafenib resistance, and metastasis through suppression of FOXO1. Imipramine treatment significantly reduced BLOC1S5 expression while inducing FOXO1 expression. Crucially, the inhibitory effect of imipramine on cell migration was reversed by BLOC1S5 overexpression, indicating that imipramine acts, at least in part, by suppressing this protein. Clinically, elevated BLOC1S5 expression correlated with poor prognosis, whereas higher FOXO1 levels were associated with favorable outcomes in HCC patients. Collectively, these results highlight the repurposing of imipramine as a promising therapeutic strategy to sensitize HCC cells to sorafenib via modulation of the BLOC1S5/FOXO1 signaling axis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Cardiac hypertrophy, a significant pathological response to various stressors, often culminates in heart failure and necessitates the identification of novel regulatory targets for developing effective therapeutic strategies. In our study, an integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analysis revealed that deubiquitinating enzyme 13 (USP13) was significantly downregulated during cardiac hypertrophy. Subsequent functional experiments confirmed that USP13 overexpression markedly ameliorated transverse aortic constriction-induced cardiac dysfunction and attenuated cardiomyocyte hypertrophy, indicating that USP13 functions as a potential suppressor of this pathological condition. Mechanistic studies demonstrated that USP13 bound to and deubiquitinated sorting nexin 13 (SNX13), thereby stabilizing the SNX13 protein. SNX13 promoted nuclear accumulation of Nrf2, upregulating key ferroptosis-related genes including SLC7A11 and GPX4, thereby attenuating ferroptosis and ameliorating cardiac hypertrophy. Additionally, the m6A reader YTHDF2 was found to bind m6A-modified USP13 mRNA, facilitating its degradation and subsequent reduction in USP13 expression. We also established that the palmitoyltransferase ZDHHC18 enhanced YTHDF2 stability by mediating YTHDF2 S-palmitoylation, specifically at Cys468. This study identifies a functional ZDHHC18/YTHDF2/USP13/SNX13/Nrf2/ferroptosis signaling axis in cardiac hypertrophy, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
The genetic architecture of Parkinson's disease varies considerably across ancestries, yet most previous genetic studies have focused on individuals of European ancestry. We aimed to characterise the distribution of established Parkinson's disease causal variants, as well as risk-associated variants with clinical implications (ie, variants in genes involved in pathways targeted by ongoing clinical trials), across ancestrally diverse populations.We conducted a multi-ancestry, observational, cross-sectional genetic study using retrospective data from the Global Parkinson's Genetics Program (GP2) release 11 (released in December, 2025). The study investigated causal and risk variants, including copy number variants, in established Parkinson's disease and parkinsonism-associated genes, following the recommendations of the Movement Disorder Society (MDS) Task Force on the Nomenclature of Genetic Movement Disorders, including GBA1, LRRK2, SNCA, VPS35, RAB32, PINK1, PRKN, PARK7, ATP13A2, DCTN1, DNAJC6, FBXO7, JAM2, RAB39B, SLC20A2, SYNJ1, VPS13C, and WDR45. Individuals with Parkinson's disease were diagnosed based on established clinical criteria, including the Parkinson's UK Brain Bank or MDS diagnostic criteria (or both), and healthy control participants were defined as individuals without evidence of neurodegenerative disease and unrelated to participants with Parkinson's disease. We analysed genome and exome sequencing and array genotyping data of 99 783 individuals, including 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease and 41 224 controls, from 11 genetically inferred ancestries (African, African admixed, Ashkenazi Jewish, Latino and Indigenous people of the Americas, central Asian, complex admixture, east Asian, European, Finnish, Middle Eastern, and south Asian), defined using reference population-based ancestry inference methods. We calculated allele frequencies for all investigated variants in individuals with Parkinson's disease and controls, both overall and stratified by ancestry.Approximately 29% of individuals (29 001 of 99 783; 15 443 [26·4%] of 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease and 13 558 [32·9%] of 41 224 controls) were from under-represented populations (ie, non-European and non-Ashkenazi Jewish). Our findings indicated both shared genetic contributors across ancestries as well as ancestry-specific differences in variant frequencies and the spectrum of variants within Parkinson's disease-associated genes. Overall, 1217 (2·1%) of 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease carried a causal variant, with substantial variations across ancestries ranging from ten (0·4%) of 2844 African individuals to 251 (10·7%) of 2343 individuals of Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry. Risk variants in GBA1 and LRRK2 were identified in 6893 (11·8%) of 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease and 3578 (8·7%) of 41 224 controls. GBA1 risk variants were most frequent overall and identified across all ancestries, but variant frequency and spectra differed substantially between ancestries, from 195 (4·1%) of 4773 in the east Asian ancestry group to 1505 (52·9%) of 2844 in the African ancestry group. Similarly, LRRK2 causal and risk variants showed ancestry-specific enrichment, with the highest frequencies of causal variants in the Ashkenazi Jewish (250 [10·7%] of 2343) and Middle Eastern (59 [4·4%] of 1347) ancestry groups, whereas risk variants were predominantly identified in the east Asian ancestry group (601 [12·6%] of 4773). Carriers of biallelic causal variants in PRKN, commonly including deletions and duplications, were also identified across all ancestries except Ashkenazi Jewish; the highest frequency was in the Middle Eastern ancestry group (17 [1·3%] of 1347), and frequencies in all other ancestries were less than 1%.This large-scale, multi-ancestry genetic study offers crucial insights into the population-specific genetic architecture of Parkinson's disease. Whereas clinical trials targeting GBA1 and LRRK2 variant carriers are primarily performed in Europe and the USA, increased ancestral diversity in Parkinson's disease research will be crucial to improve diagnostic accuracy, enhance our understanding of disease mechanisms across populations, and ensure equitable application of and access to emerging genetically informed therapies.Aligning Science Across Parkinson's (ASAP) through the Global Parkinson's Genetics Program (GP2).Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42436062 is a review article
Medulloblastoma (MB), the most common malignant pediatric brain tumor, is classified into four molecular groups: WNT, SHH, G3, and G4. G3 and G4 MBs are characterized by poor prognosis and high metastatic potential. Although USP2 (ubiquitin-specific peptidase 2) has been described as a prognostic biomarker and a promising therapeutic target in several cancer types, its role in the pathogenesis of G3 and G4 MBs remains unexplored. In this study, USP2 expression was investigated through in silico analyses, public datasets (GSE85217), and tumor samples from 54 pediatric MB patients. In addition, the effects of USP2 inhibition were evaluated in two G3/G4 MB cell lines (D283 Med and USP-13) using ML364, a selective USP2 inhibitor. USP2 was overexpressed in G3 and G4 MBs and was associated with metastasis and unfavorable clinical outcomes. Furthermore, ML364 treatment reduced USP2 protein expression level, as well as cell viability, migration, invasion, and colony-forming capacity in both cell lines. These findings indicate that USP2 is upregulated in pediatric G3 and G4 MBs and support its potential role as a biomarker of poor prognosis and a therapeutic target in these molecular subgroups.© 2026. The Author(s).
Impaired osteoblast differentiation is a central pathological event in osteoporosis. Forkhead box transcription factor D1 (FOXD1) is a key regulator of cellular metabolism, yet its precise role and upstream regulatory mechanisms during osteogenic differentiation remain poorly defined. We hypothesized that FOXD1 function might be modulated by the ubiquitin-proteasome system via the deubiquitinating enzyme USP13. Using an ovariectomy (OVX)-induced mouse osteoporosis model and MC3T3-E1 osteoprogenitor cells with Foxd1 or Usp13 knockdown/overexpression, we assessed osteogenic differentiation, glycolytic function, and the USP13-FOXD1 interaction. Results showed Foxd1 expression was upregulated during osteogenic induction. Overexpression of Foxd1 enhanced proliferation, differentiation, mineralization, and aerobic glycolysis, whereas knockdown suppressed these processes. Mechanistically, USP13 directly bound to FOXD1 and stabilized it by inhibiting proteasomal degradation via deubiquitination. Rescue experiments confirmed that FOXD1 is the critical downstream target of USP13, as Foxd1 overexpression reversed the impaired osteogenesis and suppressed glycolysis caused by Usp13 knockdown. In OVX mice, Usp13 overexpression improved bone microstructure and biomechanical strength in a FOXD1-dependent manner, while Foxd1 knockdown abolished these protective effects. This study is the first to elucidate that USP13 stabilizes FOXD1 through deubiquitination, driving aerobic glycolysis reprogramming, promoting osteogenic differentiation, and alleviating osteoporosis. This defines the "USP13-FOXD1-Glycolysis" axis as a pivotal regulatory mechanism, providing a potential therapeutic target for anti-osteoporosis strategies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The Yangtze sturgeon (Acipenser dabryanus), a critically endangered living fossil whose wild populations are now extinct, faces new challenges to survival in captive breeding. Among these, the emergence of albino and gray color morphs raise fundamental questions about the molecular basis and physiological consequences of pigmentation loss. Here, we integrated histological, transcriptomic, and quantitative PCR to investigate pigmentation variation and associated immune alterations in this species. Histology revealed a complete absence of melanin in albino individuals and marked reduction in gray morphs. Transcriptomic profiling across the three color morphs uncovered a broad downregulation of core melanogenic genes, including PMEL, TYR, TYRP1, DCT, SLC45A2, OCA2, MREG, and MLPH, indicating impaired melanosome formation, melanin synthesis, and intracellular transport. Notably, pigmentation loss coincided with systematic changes in the expression of immune-related genes: phagosome pathway genes (e.g., C3, MHC I/II, TAP2) were downregulated, while pro-inflammatory mediators (e.g., IL-8, IL-17, CXCL10) were upregulated, suggesting a transcriptional pattern correlated with reduced expression of pathogen defense-related genes and increased genes associated with inflammation mediators. These findings reveal a mechanistic correlation between melanin deficiency and immune dysfunction in a basal vertebrate lineage, offering the first molecular evidence of an association between albinism and altered immune-related gene expression in sturgeons and highlighting its implications for conservation and captive management.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42208358 is a review article
Intestinal homeostasis relies on the integrity of the mucosal barrier, whose disruption contributes to inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), enteric infection, and colorectal cancer (CRC). Here, we report that leucine-rich melanocyte differentiation-associated protein (LRMDA) is markedly downregulated in inflamed mucosal tissues from patients with IBD and in colorectal tumor tissues. Genetic ablation of LRMDA in mice exacerbates dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis, enhances colorectal tumorigenesis in both azoxymethane (AOM)/DSS and AOM/Vil-Cre;Trp53 fl/fl models, and increases susceptibility to enteric pathogen infection. LRMDA deficiency is associated with impaired mucin-related gene expression, reduced mucus layer thickness, and compromised intestinal barrier integrity. Ultrastructural analyses further suggest that LRMDA may support mucin granule transport and secretion in goblet cells. Collectively, these findings identify LRMDA as a previously unrecognized contributor to intestinal mucosal barrier integrity and intestinal homeostasis under inflammatory and tumorigenic conditions.© 2026 The Author(s).
Odorant receptors (ORs) belong to class A G protein coupled receptors that detect diverse small molecules, yet the steps that link odorant association to receptor mediated selectivity remains incompletely defined. Here we combined 1.26 milliseconds of all-atom odorant association Molecular Dynamics simulations with Markov state modeling and cell-based cAMP measurements to examine two human ORs receptors that recognize chemically distinct odorants. In the class I receptor OR51E2, propionate associates via two extracellular pathways gated for selectivity by residues in the extracellular loop 2 and 3. The longer alkyl chain heptanoate occupies this gate and reduces propionate association and signaling which is consistent with the observed antagonist behavior of heptanoate. Pocket-expanding mutations at F155 and L158 allosterically regulate ECL2-ECL3 gate by permitting longer-chain fatty acids to adopt fully inserted poses that support gate closure, while also attenuating propionate responses. In the class II receptor OR1A1, hydrophobic odorants partition into the membrane and reach the orthosteric site mostly through multiple transmembrane paths. A mutational scan of gating residues and analysis of intermediate-state occupancies suggest that an orthosteric substitution at G108 can allosterically bias odorant association path choice. Together, these results support a model in which odorant association paths and gate residence, together with allosteric coupling between the orthosteric site and entry gates, contribute to odorant specificity and antagonism in odorant receptors.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42450358 is a review article
Mammalian odorant receptors (ORs), a large family of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), rely on conserved intramolecular disulfide bonds for proper folding and their function. However, some ORs lack the typical cysteine in extracellular loop 2 (ECL2), raising questions regarding alternative structural-stabilization mechanisms. Here, we identified and characterized an unconventional disulfide bond between a unique N-terminal cysteine and ECL2 cysteine in OR51E2, the first mammalian OR with an experimentally resolved structure. Using mutagenesis and functional assays in heterologous cells, we demonstrated that this N-terminal cysteine is essential for receptor surface expression and ligand responsiveness. Furthermore, AlphaFold2 structural predictions correlated with experimental data, indicating that alternative disulfide bonds contribute to receptor stability. These findings reveal a flexible disulfide bonding strategy in ORs, suggesting that alternative extracellular cysteine linkages can compensate for missing conserved bonds, thereby supporting receptor folding and functional diversification within the GPCR family.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Olfactory receptors (ORs) constitute the largest subfamily of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), yet their activation mechanisms remain poorly understood, particularly outside canonical olfaction. The ectopically expressed receptor OR51E2 responds to microbiota-derived short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) and has been linked to cancer, metabolism, and neuroprotection. However, the structural determinants governing OR51E2 activation, G protein coupling, and receptor-receptor interactions remain incompletely defined. Here, we combined targeted mutagenesis, functional signaling assays, BRET-based interaction analyses, and molecular dynamics simulations to examine key extracellular structural elements of OR51E2. Two variants were generated: OR51E2C96S,C178S, designed to disrupt the conserved TM3-ECL2 disulfide bridge, and OR51E2p.Ser174_Val183del, lacking part of ECL2. Both mutants trafficked efficiently to the plasma membrane and were defective in SCFA-induced cAMP signaling. In the double cysteine mutant, NFAT-based assays further confirmed a severe loss of ligand-induced signaling. BRET analyses revealed that disruption of the disulfide bridge markedly impairs productive OR51E2-Gαolf engagement and abolishes ligand-induced changes in receptor-G protein proximity. Consistently, molecular dynamics simulations predicted preserved ligand binding but preferential TM6/TM7 displacement, suggesting a signaling-incompetent intracellular architecture not properly organized for Gαolf coupling. These findings support a model in which the TM3-ECL2 disulfide bridge acts as an extracellular structural checkpoint that converts ligand occupancy into productive G protein engagement. Notably, its disruption did not prevent heteromerization with the adenosine A2A receptor, although the interaction profile was altered. Together, these results reveal how extracellular constraints differentially regulate OR51E2 signaling and GPCR heteromerization.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Recent advances in predicting and modeling conformational ensembles of intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs) have provided much needed insights into sequence-ensemble relationships. It is thought that conservation of physicochemical properties, but not the exact identity or order of the amino acids, maintains IDP ensemble properties that are crucial for function. However, detailed experimental studies are still required to fully understand the relationships between sequence and function in IDPs. The human CITED proteins, which are fully disordered transcriptional regulators, share conserved C-terminal transactivation domains (CTADs) that interact with the TAZ1 domain of the transcriptional coactivators CBP/p300. The conserved CTADs harbor amino acid substitutions in regions that are known to be important for interactions of CITED2 with TAZ1, but the effects of these substitutions on TAZ1 binding for the other CITED proteins are unknown. Here, we use solution NMR spectroscopy, circular dichroism, and surface plasmon resonance to characterize the conformational ensembles, dynamics, and interactions of the CITED CTADs. The CTADs are disordered in isolation, although the CITED2 CTAD uniquely displays residual helical structure that is sensitive to ionic strength and protein concentration. In contrast, the CITED1 and CITED4 CTADs remain largely disordered and exhibit more uniform dynamics. Quantitative binding measurements reveal differences in thermodynamics and kinetics for the CTADs' interactions with TAZ1, with CITED2 binding most tightly and CITED4 exhibiting significantly weaker affinity. Our results highlight the sensitivity of IDP conformational ensembles to minor sequence changes and the impacts that changes in IDP structures and dynamics can have on biological functions.© 2026 The Author(s). Protein Science published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Protein Society.
Precisely delineating the transcriptomic profiles of glandular epithelial (GE) cells in prostate cancer (PCa) remains a significant challenge primarily due to their diffuse and multifocal distribution. To address this, we employed spatial transcriptomics (ST) to analyze 12 PCa tissue samples from 10 patients, aiming to identify PCa progression-associated genes by analyzing expression patterns across histologically distinct regions. Transcriptomic classification via principal component analysis (PCA), uniform manifold approximation and projection (UMAP), and Louvain clustering revealed spatially resolved histological structures within each tissue section. The malignancy status, progression stages, and developmental trajectories of GE clusters were further assessed using inferred copy number variation (inferCNV), diffusion pseudotime (DPT), and partition-based graph abstraction (PAGA) analyses. Based on the preliminary characterization of developmental trajectories, pairwise comparisons of GE clusters identified key oncogenes-including TFF3, OR51E2 (PSGR), FOLH1 (PSMA), AMACR (P504S), FOS (a subunit of AP-1), SLC4A4, EGR1, NDUFB9, and H2AFJ-that are positively associated with PCa progression. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) validation further confirmed the elevated expression of SLC4A4 and H2AFJ in advanced-stage PCa. Overall, this study establishes an ST-based framework for predicting PCa progression and provides valuable insight for the identification of progression-associated genes holding promise as clinical biomarkers.© 2025 The Authors.
Oocyte maturation defect (OMD) is a rare cause of female infertility characterized by the persistent arrest of oocytes at immature stages. While biallelic PATL2 variants have been associated with OMD, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear. This study aimed to identify novel PATL2 variants in OMD patients and investigate their functional consequences using a Patl2 knockout (KO) mouse model.We recruited two unrelated OMD patients and performed whole-exome sequencing (WES), followed by sanger validation of candidate variants. A CRISPR/Cas9-generated Patl2 KO mouse model was established, and transcriptomic profiling of oocytes from wild-type (WT) and Patl2-/- mice was conducted to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and signaling pathways.We identified three PATL2 variants in the patients: a novel frameshift variant (c.99delA, p.Glu35fs), a novel synonymous variant (c.930G > A, p.K310K) confirmed by mini-gene assay to disrupt splicing and a recurrent splicing variant (c.223 - 14_223-2delCCCTCCTGTTCCA, p.R75Vfs*21). Sequence variant analysis classified these variants as pathogenic/likely pathogenic according to the ACMG/AMP guidelines. Transcriptome sequencing of Patl2-/-oocytes revealed dysregulation of key follicular development genes (Zfp36, Cited1, Fgf8, Id1, Efna1/4). KEGG pathway analysis highlighted significant upregulation of the hypoxia-inducible factor-1(HIF-1) signaling pathway and transforming growth factor-beta(TGF-beta) signaling pathway and mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway, suggesting impaired oocyte energy metabolism and disrupted granulosa-oocyte communication.We identified the first likely pathogenic synonymous PATL2 variant causing aberrant splicing and a novel frameshift variant in OMD, broadening the PATL2 mutational spectrum. These findings provide direct evidence for PATL2's critical role in female reproduction, where it regulates mRNA expression of proteins essential for oocyte meiotic progression and early embryonic development.© 2026. The Author(s).
The diagnosis of prostate cancer (PCa) is limited by the low specificity of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) testing, which contributes to overdiagnosis and patient exposure to unnecessary invasive prostate biopsies. Here, we report a urine-based diagnostic platform that combines a six-member human olfactory receptor-embedded nanodisc (OR-ND) sensor array with fluorescence sensing and machine learning to detect PCa-associated volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Six ORs were reconstituted into lipid nanodiscs and evaluated using urine samples from a strictly curated subcohort of 40 PCa patients and 33 healthy controls (n = 73) to establish baseline sensor responsiveness. Subsequently, to ensure diagnostic robustness, machine learning classifiers were developed and cross-validated using an expanded data set of 290 samples, achieving an accuracy of 0.890 and an AUC of 0.964. Analysis of the full receptor data set revealed distinct response patterns, and statistical screening with correlation filtering identified OR2W1, OR51E1, and OR51E2 as the most informative features. Using these selected receptors, a random forest classifier achieved an accuracy of 0.890 and an AUC of 0.964, demonstrating high sensitivity and specificity. OR response patterns showed a closer association with Gleason score than with serum PSA levels, indicating that urinary VOC signatures capture tumor-related metabolic information complementary to conventional biomarkers. These results demonstrate that an OR-ND sensor array coupled with machine learning enables accurate and noninvasive detection and classification of PCa from urine samples. Our study provides a modular framework extensible to other VOC-associated diseases.
Off-flavors originating from soybean protein are a major factor limiting the sensory quality of high-moisture extruded plant-based meat products. In this study, a Maillard reaction system was constructed using D-xylose and either L-cysteine (D-LC) or L-methionine (D-LM) as flavor precursors to investigate how their ratios and dosages affect the masking of off-flavor in high-moisture extruded texturized soy protein. The underlying masking mechanisms were also explored in depth. Texture analysis revealed that extrudates with D-LM system exhibited a more defined fibrous structure and improved textural properties. Sensory evaluation and electronic nose analysis indicated that extrudates in the D-LC system developed distinct meaty and roasted aromas, effectively masking the off-flavor of the texturized protein. Quantitative analysis of the key meaty aroma compounds 2-methyl-3-furanthiol and 2-furfurylthiol showed that their highest concentrations were achieved in the D-LC system at a 3:2 ratio and 0.8% addition level. Binary mixture threshold tests confirmed that these two compounds significantly masked the hexanal-derived off-flavor in texturized soy protein (R > 1). Furthermore, molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations demonstrated that both compounds bound to the olfactory receptor OR51E2 via noncovalent interactions, including hydrogen bonding and π-π stacking, thereby effectively preventing hexanal from binding to the receptor. These findings provide a new theoretical basis for improving the sensory quality of texturized soy protein products.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Secondary lymphedema is a debilitating complication following oncologic surgery, characterized by progressive tissue fibrosis and chronic inflammation. Although transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) has been established as a central mediator of fibrotic remodeling, the broader interplay between pro-inflammatory cytokines and downstream fibrotic signaling cascades in post-surgical lymphedematous tissue remains poorly understood.Skin and subcutaneous tissue biopsies were prospectively collected from 126 patients with unilateral breast cancer-related lymphedema and 58 matched controls across three tertiary centers between January 2024 and December 2025. Tissue specimens were analyzed using immunohistochemistry, quantitative real-time PCR, multiplex cytokine profiling, and Western blotting. Correlations between cytokine expression, fibrotic markers, and clinical severity were evaluated.Lymphedematous tissues exhibited significantly elevated expression of TGF-β1, interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-13 (IL-13), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) compared with controls (all P < 0.01). Concurrent activation of Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling pathways was observed, with both correlating positively with disease severity. Multivariate regression identified TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 as independent predictors of fibrotic burden, whereas TNF-α lost significance after adjustment for confounders. Lymphatic vessel density was inversely associated with cytokine levels and fibrotic severity.Secondary upper extremity lymphedema following breast cancer surgery is driven by a coordinated inflammatory and fibrotic axis involving TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 through convergent Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling. These findings support the development of multi-pathway therapeutic strategies beyond single-agent anti-fibrotic approaches for post-surgical lymphedema.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Systemic sclerosis is an autoimmune fibrotic skin disease characterised by immune activation and fibrosis. Fibroblasts are at the core of this fibrotic process, differentiating into effector myofibroblasts; however, the drivers of this process remain obscure. Recently, metabolic changes in cells in fibrotic diseases have been uncovered, with changes in the TCA cycle and glycolysis being observed.The objective of this work was to elucidate the role of the glycolytic enzyme pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) in systemic sclerosis.Serum from early diffuse systemic sclerosis (SSc) patients and healthy controls (HC) was collected for PKM2 analysis by ELISA. Fibroblasts were isolated from HC and SSc biopsies and treated with transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) to assess PKM2 expression. PKM2 was pharmacologically modulated, and collagen and Extracellular Matrix (ECM) regulators were evaluated. Metabolic activity was assessed using Seahorse assays, and lactate transport was chemically inhibited. Chromatin immunoprecipitation was performed using a histone lactylation-specific or isotype antibody, and lactate or acetate supplementation experiments were conducted.We found significantly elevated circulating and fibroblast PKM2 in SSc patients. Fibroblast PKM2 could be induced in healthy fibroblasts by TGF-β1 exposure. Furthermore, PKM2 drives a metabolic shift to glycolysis that can be blocked by forced tetramerisation of PKM2 from its dimeric form; this resulted in reduced ECM and matrix regulators. Mechanistically, PKM2-mediated glycolysis results in elevated lactate, which drives collagen via epigenetic regulation by histone H3K18 lactylation. Blockade of PKM2 dimerisation reduced Histone H3 at Lysine 18 (H3K18) lactylation at the collagen promoter, which could be restored with lactate but not acetate. We further demonstrated that lactate-induced collagen is partially mediated by HIF-1α.PKM2 drives activation of fibroblasts in SSc via metabolic changes such as glycolysis. Taking advantage of PKM2 tetramerisation or blockade of lactate generation could be a possible therapeutic option in a disease with few treatment options.Copyright © 2026 Steadman and O’Reilly.
Growth factor release from dentin and subsequent cellular response are critical in endodontic regeneration procedures. This study evaluated the effects of Nd: YAG (1064 nm) and diode lasers (980 nm, 635 nm) at varying energy densities on dentin morphology, Transforming Growth Factor-beta 1 release, and the biological response of stem cells to promote pulp regeneration in immature permanent teeth. Dentin blocks from extracted human teeth were treated with 1.5% NaOCl followed by pulsed Nd: YAG or continuous-wave diode lasers (average energy densities of 24, 60 and 120 J/cm2). Controls included 1.5% NaOCl/17% EDTA group and untreated samples. TGF-β1 release was quantified via ELISA. Cell viability (24-72 h), alkaline phosphatase activity (7 days), and surface morphology were assessed. One-way or two-way ANOVA with post-hoc tests were applied (p < 0.05). SEM analysis revealed that all lasers partially disrupted the smear layer and increased surface roughness, while SHED cells on laser-treated dentin showed flattened morphology with extended filopodia, indicating favorable cell-surface interactions. All laser groups significantly increased TGF-β1 release compared to the negative control (p < 0.05), with Nd: YAG at 60 J/cm² producing the highest levels, exceeding even the positive control (p < 0.05). Laser-treated specimens were non-cytotoxic and significantly increased ALP activity compared to the negative control (p < 0.001), with Nd: YAG at 60 J/cm² showing the highest activity, statistically higher than the NaOCl/EDTA positive control (p < 0.05). Low to moderate energy Nd: YAG and diode lasers enhanced TGF-β1 release and ALP activity without cytotoxicity, matching or exceeding EDTA treatment. Thus, laser-assisted dentin conditioning is a promising adjunctive strategy for regenerative endodontics.© 2026. The Author(s).
Naturally occurring isoforms of the proto-oncogene Erb-B2 Receptor Tyrosine Kinase 2 (ERBB2, HER2) incite unique pathways of tumor progression in mouse models of breast cancer. Although each isoform has been shown to progress to metastasis, the N-terminally truncated isoform (p95) was previously shown to be biased toward early distant dissemination prior to detection. Here we show how HER2 isoforms differentially promote go-or-grow phenotypes through biased utilization of tyrosine autophosphorylation sites in the intracellular tail of HER2. Fluorescently barcoded humanized full-length HER2 (WT), exon-16 splice HER2 isoform (d16), and p95 expressing tumor cell lines were derived from HER2 Crainbow mice, then utilized for a series of functional assays including proliferation, tumor growth rate, cell motility, collective cell migration, cellular morphology, and invasive potential. Quantitative analysis reveals biased tumor cell behaviors across each genotype. WT tumor cells are biased toward proliferation and collective migration, d16 cells are biased toward proliferation and individual motility, and p95 tumor cells are biased toward individual motility and invasion. Single cell analysis reveals a myogenic-like state transition in p95 cells accompanied by an increased nuclear translocation of the Myocardin Related Transcription Factor A (MRTFA). MRTFA knockdown, as well as knockdown of a downstream effector, Transforming growth factor beta 1 induced transcript 1 (TGFB1I1), both inhibit the p95 invasive phenotype. Furthermore, intracellular residue tyrosine 1139 (Y1139) is necessary for MRTFA translocation, and when edited in p95 cells (Y1139F) invasion and motility phenotypes are subsequently lost. Our data illustrate the importance of functionally selective signaling in HER2 and highlight the need for therapeutics that intercept metastasis by targeting HER2 biased signaling.
Hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) and macrophages are key regulators of liver fibrosis, yet their direct communication during fibrogenesis remains incompletely characterized. We showed that genetic deletion of folate receptor beta (Folr2) significantly attenuated experimental liver fibrosis in mice. In both human and murine fibrotic livers, FOLR2+ macrophages are frequently juxtaposed with activated HSCs. Functionally, FOLR2 expressed by reparative, but not M1 or scar-associated, macrophages promotes HSC activation in a contact-dependent manner. Mechanistically, FOLR2 binds to transforming growth factor beta receptor II (TGFβRII) on HSCs, sustaining transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-β1) signaling and driving fibrogenesis. Finally, the natural compound fraxinellone targets FOLR2, disrupts its interaction with TGFβRII, and attenuates HSC activation and liver fibrosis. These findings identify the FOLR2-TGFβRII intercellular interaction as a critical mediator of macrophage-HSC crosstalk and highlight its disruption as a promising therapeutic strategy against liver fibrosis.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42530162 is a review article
Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) is a chronic and progressive respiratory disorder marked by aberrant activation of pulmonary fibroblasts and the occurrence of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in alveolar epithelial cells (AECs). This disease process is primarily driven by inflammation and oxidative stress (OS), leading to excessive deposition of the extracellular matrix (ECM). Current treatments provide limited efficacy and are associated with significant side effects. Leonurine and its sulfate derivative SCM198, derived from Herba Leonuri, exhibit anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties. However, their therapeutic effects and mechanisms of action in PF remain poorly understood.Bleomycin (BLM) was delivered intratracheally to mice to establish a model of PF. Human Fetal Lung fibroblast-1 (HFL-1) fibroblasts and A549 AECs were subjected to transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) exposure for in vitro assays. This study comprehensively evaluated the effects of SCM198 on PF and explored its underlying molecular mechanisms through metabolomics analysis, western blotting, and additional biological techniques.SCM198 significantly ameliorated lung pathology and micro-Computed Tomography (CT) findings and reduced collagen deposition in BLM-treated mice. Furthermore, the levels of inflammatory markers and cytokines were decreased in lung tissue and Bronchoalveolar Lavage Fluid (BALF). In vitro, SCM198 inhibited fibroblast activation, EMT, and OS. It also down-regulated the TGF-β1/Smad2/3 pathway and activated the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) antioxidant pathway.The ameliorative action of SCM198 on BLM-induced pulmonary fibrosis is associated with suppression of the TGF-β1/Smad2/3 signaling axis and activation of Nrf2-mediated antioxidant defenses during the EMT process. However, further studies are needed to confirm the direct involvement of these pathways.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Periodontitis is a chronic infectious disease characterized by the progressive destruction of tooth-supporting tissues. Identifying reliable, noninvasive biomarkers is essential for improving early detection and monitoring. This cross-sectional case‒control study evaluated clinical periodontal parameters and quantified periostin and transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) levels in the saliva and gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) of patients with stage I-II periodontitis and periodontally healthy controls. A total of 60 systemically healthy, nonsmoking participants aged 20-60 years were included (30 periodontitis patients and 30 periodontally healthy controls). Clinical periodontal parameters, including the plaque index, gingival index, probing depth, and clinical attachment level, were recorded. GCF and saliva samples were analyzed using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Compared with periodontally healthy controls, stage I-II periodontitis patients had significantly greater numbers of clinical periodontal parameters (p < 0.001). They also had elevated salivary periostin (1,234.5 ± 505.82 ng/mL vs. 596.32 ± 320.47 ng/mL; p = 0.001), GCF TGF-β1 (10.14 ± 4.44 pg/mL vs. 6.50 ± 3.13 pg/mL; p = 0.003), and salivary TGF-β1 (31.59 ± 7.69 pg/mL vs. 20.25 ± 9.48 pg/mL; p = 0.001) levels. GCF periostin levels did not significantly differ between the periodontitis group (311.3 ± 210.3 ng/mL) and the periodontally healthy control group (208.6 ± 147.6 ng/mL) (p = 0.092). These findings suggest that salivary periostin and TGF-β1, together with GCF TGF-β1, may serve as promising noninvasive biomarkers for the diagnosis and monitoring of early-stage periodontitis. Salivary periostin showed particularly strong discriminatory potential and may hold promise for future chairside diagnostic applications.
Most drugs target proteins, and proteome-wide genetic analyses in diverse populations could discover potential novel and repurposed targets for improved prevention and treatment of ischemic heart disease (IHD) beyond statin therapy.The purposes of this study were to use cis-acting single nucleotide polymorphisms (cis-pQTLs) identified for plasma proteins in East Asians and Europeans to discover and validate potential drug targets for IHD.We measured plasma levels of 9,520 (Olink/SomaScan: 2,923/7,297) proteins in a case-cohort study of IHD (1,976 incident cases and 2,001 subcohort controls) in statin-free individuals in the prospective China Kadoorie Biobank (CKB). Genome-wide association studies identified 2,895 (Olink/SomaScan: 1,301/1,594) cis-pQTLs for these proteins in CKB. Two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) and colocalization analyses assessed associations of all available cis-pQTLs for these proteins with IHD in East Asians (n = 29,319 cases), with further replication in Europeans (n = 181,522 cases) and comparison with findings in previous MR studies.In CKB observational analyses, a total of 959 (Olink/SomaScan: 426/533) proteins were associated at false discovery rate-corrected P < 0.05 with IHD after adjusting for major IHD risk factors. Two-sample MR analyses provided genetic support for 54 unique (Olink/SomaScan: 36/28) proteins in IHD etiology. Colocalization analyses confirmed shared gene-protein-IHD associations (posterior probability of hypothesis 4 [PPH4] ≥0.8) for 15 unique (Olink/SomaScan: 10/10) proteins, including 8 lipid-related, 3 inflammation-related, 1 blood pressure-related, and 3 alcohol-related proteins in East Asians. In Europeans, MR analyses of 12 non-alcohol-related proteins showed directionally concordant results for 8 proteins, with 5 having strong colocalization evidence of shared gene-protein-IHD associations (PPH4 ≥0.8), including 4 lipid-related (proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9, LPA, APOE, cadherin-1) and 1 systolic blood pressure-related (fibroblast growth factor 5) protein. However, 4 proteins showed directionally discordant MR results, including 2 lipid-related (APOA5, SORT1) and 1 inflammation-related (transforming growth factor beta 1) proteins with strong colocalization evidence of shared gene-protein-IHD associations (PPH4 ≥0.8). Comparison with previous MR studies revealed little consistency across studies in the number and identity of target proteins for IHD beyond well-established lipid-related (low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, lipoprotein(a), and triglycerides) or inflammation-related (interleukin-6) protein targets.The findings support a role for lipid-driven chronic inflammation in IHD etiology, and treatment strategies simultaneously targeting multiple lipid and inflammation pathways should be prioritized for further research to improve drug treatment of IHD beyond statin therapy.Copyright © 2026 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Myocardial ischemia-reperfusion (MIR) injury drives adverse remodeling and heart failure after ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), yet no therapy directly targets the fibrotic response. Here, we developed a good manufacturing practice-compatible extracellular vesicle (EV)-enriched secretome from bone marrow mesenchymal stromal cells and identified a laminin-521-based production strategy suitable for clinical translation. The EV-enriched secretome exhibited in vitro immunomodulatory activity, and in murine MIR-injury models, treatment preserved left ventricular ejection fraction, reduced platelet-derived growth factor receptor beta (PDGFRβ)-associated myofibroblast activation quantified by positron emission tomography (PET) imaging, attenuated fibrosis, and promoted reparative macrophage polarization. In a clinically relevant porcine ischemia-reperfusion model, intracoronary administration was cardioprotective. We further developed a clinically approved PDGFRβ-targeted PET-imaging platform for longitudinal assessment of fibrotic activity in STEMI patients, where preliminary observations suggest that myofibroblast activation persists for up to 2 months after STEMI in selected patients. Together, these findings establish a translational therapeutic-diagnostic framework for individualized management of MIR injury.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Blood-brain barrier (BBB) repair and angiogenesis after traumatic brain injury (TBI) are pivotal for brain tissue repair. However, the mismatch between the initiation of angiogenesis and BBB integrity may contribute to aggravated edema and neuronal loss. Semaglutide (SEMA) has been validated in both basic and clinical studies for its neuroprotective efficacy against many neurological disorders. However, its intrinsic mechanisms governing BBB repair and angiogenesis remain undefined. A mouse controlled cortical impact (CCI) model was employed to investigate the effects of SEMA on BBB repair, angiogenesis, and the endothelial cell (EC)-pericyte (PC) axis. Key molecular markers and signaling pathways involved in these processes were detected and analyzed to clarify the underlying mechanisms of SEMA's protective effects. We revealed that SEMA upregulated platelet-derived growth factor-BB (PDGF-BB) expression in peri-lesional tissue. Increased PDGF-BB then acted on pericytes via platelet-derived growth factor receptor β (PDGFRβ), promoting the secretion of angiopoietin1 (Ang-1) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). This cascade not only promoted angiogenesis, but also enhanced the integrity of BBB by promoting the survival of PC and EC, upregulating tight junction proteins, which might eventually reduce brain edema and improve neurological function recovery after TBI. Mechanistically, PDGF-BB/PDGFRβ, ang1/Tie2, and PI3K/AKT pathways might be involved in SEMA mediated interactions between EC and PC. Collectively, our findings in this study elucidated the potential signaling mechanisms underlying SEMA-mediated blood-brain barrier protection and angiogenesis promotion, highlighting its potential as a TBI therapeutic targeting vascular homeostasis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42453520 is a review article
Heterozygous activating variants in platelet-derived growth factor receptor beta (PDGFRβ) are associated with ultra-rare and clinically heterogeneous conditions, including KOGS (Kosaki Overgrowth Syndrome), PS (Penttinen Syndrome) and related conditons. Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), which are widely used in hematological and oncological diseases, are now being explored as potential treatments for these conditions. While four published cases have reported encouraging results, there is still insufficient data available to draw definitive conclusions on the benefit-risk ratio. The international consortium Knowing and Treating KOGS/PS was launched to assess the real-life outcomes of such treatments. The consortium presents four new cases and updates four previously published cases of KOGS/PS treated with TKIs from seven countries. A recent publication was also included in the analysis. Individuals received treatment for between three and a half months and eight years (imatinib N = 8/8, dasatinib N = 3/8, sunitinib N = 1/8), with a mean duration of 44.4 months (SD = 29.8). The age at treatment initiation ranged from 6 to 57 years (six patients treated in childhood and two in adulthood). All individuals showed improvement within weeks/months, with minimal side effects. However, efficacy decreased over time in some cases, prompting a switch to a different TKI. These preliminary findings highlight the potential of TKIs for managing KOGS/PS patients. Standardized follow-up protocols and an electronic Case Report Form (eCRF) have been implemented to enhance monitoring and data collection, enabling systematic comparisons between treated and untreated individuals despite the disorders' rarity.© 2026. The Author(s).
A drug-repurposing-specific phenome-wide association study (PheWAS) demonstrated that patients with a single nucleotide variant that decreases expression of platelet-derived growth factor receptor beta (PDGFRβ) have a higher prevalence of fistulas, suggesting that PDGFRβ signaling is important for tissue repair. Recombinant human platelet derived growth factor B (rhPDGF) is an FDA-approved protein-based therapeutic that signals through PDGFRβ to heal and regenerate cutaneous skin wounds, periodontal tissue, and orthopedic bone with a strong safety profile. We hypothesize that rhPDGF will benefit other conditions identified by PheWAS with a similar physiological mechanism as the existing indications, such as complex perianal fistulas that are ineligible for a fistulotomy.This prospective, blinded, single-site study aims to enroll 12 participants, randomized at a ratio of 2:1, comparing implantation of rhPDGF-enhanced collagen to routine care procedures, and stratified by fistula etiology, idiopathic versus Crohn's disease (CD)-related. The primary outcome of this study will evaluate the technical performance of the rhPDGF-enhanced collagen implant for treatment of complex perianal fistulas as measured by the proportion of participants with successful implantation of the intervention without any intervention-related serious adverse events. The secondary outcomes will assess the preliminary safety and efficacy of the intervention based on all intervention-related adverse events, total fistulas healed, rate of fistula recurrence, and change in patient-reported symptoms. Complex perianal fistulas, idiopathic or CD-related, remain a major clinical challenge in need of new multimodal treatments aimed at tissue repair and regeneration. Pharmaceutical rhPDGF stimulation of PDGFRβ signaling promotes healing of skin, bone, and soft tissue. PheWAS revealed fistulas as a novel indication for repurposing rhPDGF. This protocol aims to evaluate the technical performance, preliminary safety and efficacy, and feasibility of rhPDGF-enhanced collagen for healing and remission of complex perianal fistulas.This trial was approved by the Vanderbilt University Medical Center institutional review board (IRB#240585). Results will be submitted for publication in a peer-reviewed journal.This trial is registered at ClinicalTrials.gov ( NCT06632418 ).In this trial we utilized a novel drug repurposing approach, PheWAS, to identify fistulas as a novel pathophysiological phenotype which may benefit from a pharmacological intervention targeting the PDGF signaling pathway.A crossover design was employed to improve recruitment and retention, allowing patients within the control group the opportunity to receive the intervention if their fistula fails to heal.Our secondary outcomes will include stratified subgroup analyses for idiopathic and CD-related fistulas allowing us to determine if PDGF may benefit one fistula etiology over the other.Due to the complexity of perianal fistula etiology, stringent exclusion criteria were required to establish a study population who might benefit the most and the small sample size restricts the ability to perform subgroup analyses and limits statistical power for efficacy outcomes.The control procedures differ based on disease etiology (idiopathic vs CD-related) yet all patients undergoing treatment receive the same procedure, as such, the interpretation of the secondary outcomes may be difficult due to the lack of a true placebo.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42380603 is a review article
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) is characterized by hepatocellular injury, inflammation, and progressive fibrosis, yet current non-invasive tests do not directly assess the cellular drivers of fibrogenesis. Platelet-derived growth factor receptor beta (PDGFRβ) is highly expressed on activated hepatic stellate cells (aHSC), a major effector cell population in MASH. A PDGFRβ-targeted peptide was synthesized and radiolabeled with gallium-68. We investigated whether PDGFRβ-targeted PET imaging could enable non-invasive molecular assessment of MASH severity. Dynamic PET/CT, ex vivo autoradiography, histopathology, immunostaining, western blotting, and qPCR were performed in graded MASH mouse models induced by choline-deficient, L-amino acid-defined, high-fat diet (CDAHFD) and methionine-choline-deficient (MCD) diet, with human MASH liver specimens for validation. Both CDAHFD and MCD models developed progressive steatohepatitis and fibrosis accompanied by increasing hepatic PDGFRβ expression. PDGFRβ colocalized with αSMA positive aHSC populations and the proportion of PDGFRβ/αSMA double positive cells increased markedly in diseased livers. PET imaging demonstrated progressively increased hepatic uptake of the 68Ga-labeled PDGFRβ probe with worsening disease severity in both models. Probe uptake quantified by SUV and AUC paralleled histological fibrosis, PDGFRβ protein expression, and fibrosis-related gene transcription. Autoradiography confirmed specific probe binding in mouse liver sections. In human MASH specimens, PDGFRβ expression and probe binding similarly increased with pathological severity and correlated with fibrosis-associated markers. PDGFRβ-targeted PET imaging enables non-invasive molecular visualization of aHSC and provides a quantitative imaging approach for grading MASH severity. These findings support PDGFRβ as a candidate imaging biomarker for biologically active fibrogenesis in MASH and provide a rationale for future clinical translation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42353138 is a review article
Septoclasts are mononuclear cartilage-resorbing cells derived from pericytes and are involved in the formation of the primary ossification center and resorption of the growth plate of long bones. In this study, we examined the chronological immunolocalization of the cell markers, epidermal fatty acid-binding protein (E-FABP, FABP5) and cathepsin B of septoclasts, platelet-derived growth factor receptor beta (PDGFRβ) of pericytes, and endomucin of vascular endothelial cells in the midline of a mouse cranial base during the embryonic and neonatal periods. We found that septoclasts expressing FABP5, cathepsin B, and PDGFRβ were adjacent to endomucin-positive capillary endothelial cells. At the neonatal period, septoclasts were localized on the surface of the spheno-occipital synchondrosis (SOS) and the intersphenoidal synchondrosis (ISS) of neonatal mice. Similar to the growth plates of long bones, septoclasts were distributed along the longitudinal septa of the cartilage. However, their length was shorter than that of the growth plates. The mature septoclasts predominantly exhibited morphological features reflecting high cartilage resorptive activity, such as spindle-shaped cell bodies with elongated cytoplasmic processes. During development, septoclasts were distributed adjacent to invasive capillaries within the ossification centers of the cartilaginous primordia and converged on the resorption surfaces of the synchondroses when the ossification centers were completely developed. The immature septoclasts predominantly exhibited morphological features reflecting low cartilage resorptive activity, specifically spindle-shaped cell bodies with short processes. Our findings suggest that septoclasts play a role in the distinct morphogenesis of the cranial base by participating in the cartilage resorption of synchondroses and the formation of ossification centers.© 2026 Anatomical Society.
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a malignant epithelial tumor strongly associated with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection. EBV-mediated dysregulation of host microRNAs (miRNAs) contributes to NPC pathogenesis, but the functions of many EBV-regulated host miRNAs remain incompletely defined. miR-10b-3p is markedly downregulated in EBV-positive NPC, yet its biological significance and downstream mechanism remain unclear. Here, we found that miR-10b-3p was reduced in EBV-positive NPC tissues and was further suppressed following EBV infection of non-malignant nasopharyngeal epithelial cells and EBV-negative NPC cell lines. Restoration of miR-10b-3p expression markedly inhibited cell proliferation, colony formation, migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in EBV-positive NPC cells, whereas inhibition of miR-10b-3p in EBV-negative NPC cells produced the opposite effects. In nude mouse xenograft and lung metastasis models, overexpression of miR-10b-3p significantly reduced tumor growth and pulmonary metastasis. Mechanistically, miR-10b-3p directly targeted the 3'-UTR of integrin subunit alpha V (ITGAV), leading to decreased ITGAV expression and subsequent attenuation of STAT5 and ERK1/2 signaling. Forced ITGAV expression partially reversed the suppressive effects of miR-10b-3p on tumor cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and EMT. Moreover, miR-10b-3p levels were inversely correlated with ITGAV expression in NPC tissues. Collectively, these findings identify an EBV-regulated miR-10b-3p/ITGAV/STAT5-ERK1/2 axis in NPC and show that loss of miR-10b-3p promotes tumor growth and metastasis by relieving ITGAV repression, suggesting potential therapeutic targets for EBV-associated NPC.Copyright: © 2026 Zhang et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Osteoporosis (OP) occurs with decreased bone mass and deterioration of the bone microarchitecture. This can lead to an increased incidence of bone fractures. In traditional Chinese medicine, the herbal pair of Eucommia ulmoides and Achyranthes bidentata is used to tonify the liver and kidney in order to strengthen bones. This study examined the network pharmacology and molecular docking of the pair to investigate the pharmacological mechanisms of the drug pair against OP. Active compounds were retrieved from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology database if they had an oral bioavailability of 30% or greater and a drug-likeness score of 0.18 or greater. OP-associated targets were identified from the GeneCards and Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man databases. The compound-target-disease network and protein-protein interaction network were built using Cytoscape and the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins, respectively. Key pathways were identified using the Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery functional enrichment analysis. To predict the potential binding interactions between the major compounds and the hub targets, molecular docking was used. In total, 49 active compounds (28 from E ulmoides and 21 from A bidentata) and 95 overlapping therapeutic targets were found. Quercetin, kaempferol, β-sitosterol, stigmasterol and wogonin were identified as key bioactive components within the network analysis. Fourteen hub targets, including interleukin-6, vascular endothelial growth factor A, tumor necrosis factor, tumor protein p53, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, were identified through protein-protein interaction analysis. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment revealed involvement in tumor necrosis factor, mitogen-activated protein kinase, hypoxia-inducible factor 1, Toll-like receptor, and NOD-like receptor signaling pathways. Molecular docking demonstrated favorable binding affinities between the key compounds and core proteins, suggesting potential interactions consistent with the network pharmacology predictions. The Eucommia-Achyranthes herbal pair may exert potential therapeutic effects on OP through multicomponent, multi-target, and multi-pathway interactions. Its main bioactive compounds may potentially interact with inflammatory and osteogenic signaling pathways via key targets such as interleukin-6, vascular endothelial growth factor A, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, tumor protein p53, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, which may be associated with bone metabolism and structural integrity. These findings provide a theoretical foundation for future experimental and clinical validation.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Knee osteoarthritis (KOA) is the most common joint disorder and causes pain and functional limitation. Patients who are refractory to conservative treatment or unsuitable for surgery owing to advanced age or comorbidities have limited options. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is implicated in synovitis, angiogenesis and pain in KOA. microRNA (miRNA) based therapies have recently attracted attentions. This study aimed to investigate whether intra-articular delivery of VEGF-targeting miRNA can reduce synovitis and pain.Human synovial sarcoma cell line HS-SY-II was used for screening of VEGF-targeting miRNAs and primary synovial fibroblasts derived from KOA patients was used for confirmation of the efficacy. miRNA mimics were transfected and VEGF production was quantified. In vivo analyses, KOA was induced by anterior cruciate ligament transection and medial meniscectomy (ACLT model). Wistar rats were randomly allocated to 5 groups in 2 cohorts (n = 5 per group per cohort): normal (no ACLT), ACLT + negative control miRNA (NC), ACLT + miR-126-3p, ACLT + miR-140-5p, and ACLT + a combination of miR-126-3p and miR-140-5p (miR-Mix). miRNA mimics were injected intra-articularly. Hindlimb weight-bearing was assessed using incapacitance tester. Synovitis and cartilage degeneration were evaluated histologically. VEGF levels in synovial fluid, synovium and cartilage were quantified by Simple Western analysis. Non-parametric tests and repeated-measures analyses were performed, with p < 0.05 considered statistically significant.Combination of miR-126-3p and miR-140-5p suppressed VEGF production in HS-SY-II cells than either miRNA alone and the suppressive activity on VEGF production was confirmed in primary synovial fibroblasts from KOA patients. In ACLT rats, synovial VEGF levels were increased in NC group compared with normal rats and tended to be lower in all miRNA-treated groups. Hindlimb weight-bearing ratios were reduced to about 30% after ACLT and remained low in the NC group, whereas they gradually improved in the miR-126-3p and miR-140-5p monotherapy groups and almost recovered in the miR-Mix group. At final time point, weight-bearing ratio was significantly higher in miR-Mix group than NC group. Histologically, Krenn scores were tend to lower in miR-126-3p and miR-Mix groups than NC group, indicating amelioration of synovitis, whereas OARSI histopathology scores for femoral cartilage did not differ significantly among groups and tended to be higher in miR-treated groups. There was a strong negative correlation between Krenn synovitis score and hindlimb weight-bearing ratio (Spearman's ρ = -0.7, p < 0.001).Intra-articular administration of VEGF-suppressive miR-Mix ameliorated synovitis and pain-related behaviour. In highly unstable traumatic model, however, structural protection of articular cartilage was not observed and cartilage degeneration even tended to be worse in miR-treated groups, possibly due to increased weight-bearing following pain relief.These findings suggest intra-articular delivery of VEGF-suppresive miRNAs may represent novel analgesic strategies for KOA by reducing synovitis within joint. miRNA-based modulation of VEGF production could potentially be translated into future disease-modifying and analgesic treatments, however further studies using non-traumatic KOA models, safety evaluation and clarifying molecular mechanisms are required.© 2026 The Authors.
Pancreatic islet transplantation can restore insulin production in patients with severe diabetes, but donor material is scarce, and early engraftment is constrained by inflammatory and mechanical stress and a prolonged avascular phase, during which oxygen and nutrient delivery are limited by diffusion. Revascularization relies primarily on stress-induced vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A), prolonging metabolic compromise, increasing autophagic burden, and rendering grafts vulnerable to secondary stress. Accelerating vascular integration during this time window is therefore critical for graft health. We show that β-cell-targeted aptamer-VEGF-A small activating RNA (saRNA) chimeras selectively induce robust VEGF-A expression in mouse and human islets independently of hypoxia- or nutrient-stress pathways, without activating autophagy or stress-responsive genes. In vivo, chimera-primed islets transplanted into anterior chamber and kidney capsule models exhibited accelerated vascular migration, earlier perfusion, and faster resolution of LC3-dependent autophagic stress without altering endpoint vascular density. Functionally, marginal-mass mouse and human grafts restored glucose control more effectively, preserved intra-islet architecture, and delayed hyperglycemia following STZ-induced β-cell loss. The RNA chimera's modular architecture of RNA chimeras allows transient, tissue-adaptable transcriptional activation across species and cell sources. These findings establish that brief, ex vivo RNA-mediated priming preconditions islets to withstand early engraftment stress, enhancing vascular integration and functional outcomes. This scalable, stress-independent strategy may lower the minimum effective transplant mass and expand access to cellular therapies for diabetes.© 2026. The Author(s).
Bevacizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody against vascular endothelial growth factor A. Its long half-life and low volume of distribution allow circulating drug to persist in the body for weeks, which becomes clinically relevant when urgent or emergent surgery is needed. Because bevacizumab is largely intravascular, therapeutic plasma exchange (TPE) is attractive, though published experience is limited. We describe four adults who underwent TPE to facilitate surgery or postoperative wound healing after bevacizumab exposure: two with glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) before craniotomy, one with GBM after bowel resection with primary anastomosis, and one with metastatic rectal adenocarcinoma before craniotomy for a hemorrhagic brain mass. Patients received one to three sessions with albumin replacement, with fresh frozen plasma added in one case. No postoperative hemorrhage or delayed wound healing occurred. These cases support a practical role for TPE when residual bevacizumab exposure remains relevant and awaiting spontaneous clearance is not feasible.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Cannabidiol (CBD), a major non-psychoactive phytocannabinoid derived from Cannabis sativa L., has shown therapeutic potential in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). However, the mechanisms by which CBD modulates synovial angiogenesis remain unclear.This study aimed to investigate whether CBD attenuates RA progression by suppressing synovial angiogenesis and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms.An adjuvant-induced arthritis (AIA) rat model was established to evaluate the therapeutic effects of CBD in vivo using arthritis scoring, micro-CT, and histopathological, immunohistochemical, and immunofluorescence analyses. In vitro, cytotoxicity was determined using the CCK-8 assay, followed by evaluations of CBD's direct effects on the proliferation, migration, invasion, and inflammatory responses of RA fibroblast-like synoviocytes (RA-FLS) were evaluated, alongside Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) for cytotoxicity screening. Furthermore, the paracrine regulation of angiogenesis was assessed using a conditioned medium (CM) transfer system from hypoxia-stimulated RA-FLS applied to human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Molecular mechanisms were analyzed via Western blotting, RT-qPCR, ELISA, co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), molecular docking, and targeted proteasome inhibition (MG132).In vivo, CBD (5 and 10 mg/kg) treatment markedly alleviated joint inflammation, synovial angiogenesis, and structural bone destruction in AIA rats. In vitro, non-cytotoxic concentrations of CBD (2.4-4.8 μM) significantly suppressed aberrant RA-FLS proliferation, migration, invasion, and pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion. Mechanistically, CBD abrogated the hypoxia-induced accumulation of hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) protein in RA-FLS without significantly altering HIF1A mRNA expression. This reduction was effectively reversed by MG132. Co-IP and molecular docking analyses revealed that CBD directly enhances the polyubiquitination of HIF-1α through stable structural interactions, driving a ubiquitin-proteasome-dependent degradation mechanism. Consequently, CBD dose-dependently decreased the extracellular secretion of vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) and angiopoietin-2 (ANG-2) from RA-FLS. Functionally, CM from CBD-treated RA-FLS disrupted the pro-angiogenic paracrine crosstalk-independent of direct CBD carryover-significantly impairing HUVEC migration, capillary-like tube formation, and downstream VEGFR2 (Tyr1175) phosphorylation.CBD attenuates RA pathogenesis not only by directly suppressing RA-FLS hyperactivity but also by severing the pro-angiogenic paracrine crosstalk between RA-FLS and endothelial cells. These effects are driven by the ubiquitin-proteasome-dependent degradation of HIF-1α in RA-FLS via direct structural engagement, which depletes VEGFA/ANG-2 production and subsequent endothelial VEGFR2 activation. These findings highlight CBD as a promising disease-modifying anti-angiogenic therapeutic agent for RA.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Wet age-related macular degeneration (wAMD) is a leading cause of irreversible vision loss characterized by pathological choroidal neovascularization (CNV). While anti-VEGF therapies are the standard of care, limitations such as treatment resistance and side effects necessitate novel therapeutic agents. This study evaluates the therapeutic efficacy and mechanism of EV30, a novel pterostilbene derivative, in suppressing CNV. EV30 was synthesized based on the pterostilbene template. In vitro, the effects of EV30 on human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) proliferation, migration, and tube formation were assessed using Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), scratch wound, and tube formation assays, respectively. Mechanistic pathways were investigated via Western blotting and RT-qPCR. In vivo, a laser-induced CNV mouse model was treated with intravitreal EV30. Efficacy was evaluated utilizing fundus photography, fluorescein angiography (FFA), optical coherence tomography (OCT), and choroidal flat mounts (IB4 staining). Finally, biosafety was assessed through histology (H&E), electroretinography (ERG), and blood analysis. EV30 demonstrated potent anti-angiogenic properties in vitro, significantly inhibiting HUVEC proliferation, migration, and tube formation in a dose- and time-dependent manner. EV30 reduced vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) expression and modulated the phosphorylation status of proteins associated with the mTOR/NF-κB/p38 MAPK signaling pathway. In the laser-induced CNV model, EV30 effectively reduced lesion area and vascular leakage comparable to bevacizumab. Furthermore, ERG analysis revealed that EV30 partially preserved retinal electrophysiological function, as indicated by improved scotopic a-wave amplitudes, suggesting functional protection of the retina in the CNV model. EV30 exerted anti-angiogenic effects and was associated with modulation of mTOR/NF-κB/p38 MAPK signaling activity. Together, these findings suggest that EV30 represents a potential therapeutic candidate for CNV by suppressing pathological angiogenesis and modulating inflammation-associated signaling pathways.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Osler's disease (hereditary haemorrhagic telangiectasia, HHT) is associated with telangiectasia and arteriovenous malformations, but reports of myocardial involvement are rare.A 37-year-old woman with a history of pulmonary arteriovenous fistula and paradoxical embolism due to Osler's disease with endoglin mutation (HHT1) became pregnant despite high-risk considerations and delivered by cesarean section. On postpartum day 23, she developed dyspnoea and was diagnosed with acute heart failure. Echocardiography showed decreased cardiac output and circumferential left ventricular wall thickening compared with normal findings before delivery. Myocardial biopsy revealed no inflammatory infiltration but showed interstitial enlargement and red blood cell leakage, suggestive of myocardial haemorrhage. Coronary angiography demonstrated contrast retention in distal coronary arteries. Treatment with diuretics led to clinical improvement, and cardiac function returned to normal by day 78 postpartum.This is a rare case of acute heart failure in Osler's disease during the perinatal period, associated with transient circumferential left ventricular wall thickening. The findings suggest that abnormal myocardial microvasculature in Osler's disease may predispose to interstitial haemorrhage under perinatal haemodynamic stress and anticoagulant therapy.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology.
Chronic intrauterine hypoxia (IUH) is a cause not only of early postnatal mortality but also of delayed central nervous system (CNS) impairments in offspring, including increased risks of acute cerebrovascular disorders, epilepsy, and neurodegenerative diseases. The above necessitates the urgent development of targeted neuroprotective strategies for newborns following IUH. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the neuroprotective effects of the 70 kDa heat shock protein (HSP70) modulators (angiolin, thiotriazolin, cerebrocurin, tamoxifen, glutaredoxin, and heat shock factor 1 (HSF-1)), as well as reference drugs, based on their impact on molecular markers of endothelial dysfunction (vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A), endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), nitrotyrosine), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), nerve growth factor (NGF), and caspase-8 in the brains of offspring after IUH at 1 and 2 months of age.Chronic hemic IUH was modeled in pregnant rats by daily administration of sodium nitrite (50 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) on days 16-21 of pregnancy. The male offspring were treated with the study drugs for 30 days starting on P1. Brain homogenates of offspring at P30 and P60 were analyzed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for VEGF-A, eNOS, iNOS, nitrotyrosine, BDNF, NGF, and caspase-8.IUH caused persistent endothelial dysfunction, characterized by decreased VEGF and eNOS levels, and nitrosative stress, associated with increased iNOS and nitrotyrosine levels. These changes were accompanied by decreased neurotrophin levels, including BDNF and NGF, and increased caspase-8 levels. Course administration of angiolin, cerebrocurin, HSF-1, thiotriazolin, and glutaredoxin improved the eNOS/iNOS balance, increased VEGF levels, and decreased nitrotyrosine levels, with the effect persisting until P60. Cerebrocurin and angiolin demonstrated the strongest recovery of neurotrophic factors (normalization or exceeding normal BDNF/NGF levels by P60) and effectively suppressed caspase-8 to near-normal levels. A positive correlation was established between BDNF, NGF, and HSP70 levels.Pharmacological modulators of HSP70 provide effective multimodal neuroprotection due to endothelioprotective and neurotrophic effects. Angiolin and Cerebrocurin demonstrate significant therapeutic potential, offering a promising strategy for mitigating the long-term neurological sequelae of IUH.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
To investigate the impact of VEGFA and EGF genetic polymorphisms on postoperative survival, susceptibility, transcriptomics, and systemic proteomic regulation in cholangiocarcinoma (CCA).Angiogenesis and growth factor signaling via vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) and epidermal growth factor (EGF) are key drivers of CCA biology, yet the clinical relevance of their genetic variants remains poorly defined.A cohort of 221 patients undergoing curative-intent CCA resection at Charité-Berlin was analyzed. Patients were genotyped for 6 angiogenesis-related SNPs, including VEGFA rs3025039 and EGF rs4444903, and survival associations were assessed using Cox regression. The prognostic relevance of intratumoral VEGFA and EGF mRNA expression and pathway co-expression was evaluated in an independent transcriptomic cohort. Population-level associations with CCA susceptibility and serum proteomics were analyzed in the UK Biobank (n>500,000).The VEGFA rs3025039 T allele was associated with improved cancer-specific survival, particularly in intrahepatic CCA, while the EGF rs4444903 G allele was linked to improved survival in perihilar CCA. High intratumoral VEGFA or EGF expression correlated with poorer survival in external validation, but this association was lost for EGF after multivariable adjustment. VEGFA -high tumors showed increased proliferative and suppressed immune transcriptional signatures, whereas EGF -high tumors displayed limited changes. UK Biobank analysis revealed increased intrahepatic CCA susceptibility among VEGFA T allele carriers, while the EGF G allele was associated with elevated circulating EGF levels.VEGFA and EGF polymorphisms exert distinct effects on CCA, influencing disease susceptibility, postoperative outcomes, and systemic signaling, supporting their potential as biomarkers for clinical stratification.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42521061 is a review article
Emerging evidence suggests autoimmune diseases (AIDs) are associated with atrial fibrillation (AF) through systemic inflammation. However, causal mechanisms and potential protein mediators remain unexplored.To identify proteins mediating the link between AIDs and incident AF using high-dimensional mediation analysis.This study used UK Biobank data with proteomic profiling (Olink platform). Participants without prevalent AF were grouped into musculoskeletal (MSK), vasculitis, gastrointestinal (GI), neurologic, and rheumatic fever subsets. Fine-Gray models identified AID-AF associations, treating non-cardiovascular death as a competing risk. Two separate Proteome-wide association studies (PWAS) identified proteins linked to AIDs and incident AF, respectively. All models adjusted for age, sex, lipids, BMI, smoking, hypertension, diabetes, coronary artery disease, peripheral vascular disease, stroke, and heart failure. Proteins associated with both AIDs and AF were selected for high-dimensional mediation analysis (HIMA).Among 419,888 participants (median age 58 years, 45.7% male) followed for a median 14.4 years, MSK, vasculitis, GI, and rheumatic fever AIDs significantly increased incident AF risk (HR 1.17, 1.39, 1.17, and 1.46, respectively; P<0.001), but not neurologic AID (P=0.13). In 44,872 participants with proteomic data, HIMA of 232 proteins identified 60 unique mediators, with adrenomedullin, soluble urokinase plasminogen activator receptor, and insulin-like growth factor binding protein 2 shared across multiple AID groups.The identification of protein biomarkers that may help elucidate potential pathways between AID and AF provides mechanistic insights into immune-related atrial remodeling and suggests possible therapeutic targets for AF prevention and risk stratification in AID patients.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Childhood adversity (CA) is associated with cardiovascular disease (CVD). Proteomic profiling may help elucidate underlying mechanisms. This study aimed to explore how CA and genetic risk jointly impact CVD and the potential role of proteomic biomarkers.A total of 14 508 participants without baseline CVD and with available proteomics data from the UK Biobank were included. CA was assessed using the Childhood Trauma Screener questionnaire. Proteomic signatures were derived using least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression. Cox proportional hazard models were used to examine the associations of CA with CVD, and mediation analyses were conducted to assess the extent to which proteomic biomarkers explained these associations.Over a median follow-up of 13.5 years, 2286 incident CVD events were identified. The per-score increase in CA score was associated with all-cause and cause-specific CVD, with hazard ratios (HRs) for all-cause CVD, coronary heart disease, arrhythmia/conduction disorder, and heart failure being 1.049 (95% CI, 1.031-1.068), 1.039 (95% CI, 1.009-1.070), 1.041 (95% CI, 1.015-1.067), and 1.066 (95% CI, 1.012-1.122), respectively. No significant interaction between CA and genetic risk was observed. Participants with both high CA and high genetic risk had the highest all-cause CVD risk (HR, 1.847 [95% CI, 1.380-2.472]). Several proteins (pro-adrenomedullin, agrin, AHNAK, CD302, CD83, and yes-associated protein 1) explained 1.58% to 9.98% of the associations between CA and all-cause and cause-specific CVD. Proteomic signatures statistically mediated 3.68% to 10.80% of these associations.CA and genetic susceptibility jointly contributed to increased CVD risk. Proteomic biomarkers partially mediate the CA-CVD associations, providing insight into biological pathways linking early-life adversity and CVD.
To explore the association between perioperative bioactive adrenomedullin (bioADM) and early postoperative organ dysfunction after major hepatic resection, using the Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score as a measure of organ dysfunction severity.This prospective, observational single-center study included 17 patients undergoing major hepatic resection between January and June 2023. BioADM was measured preoperatively and on postoperative days (POD) 1, 2, 3, and 5. Associations with SOFA were assessed using Spearman's rank correlation. Secondary exploratory analyses evaluated organ-specific and overall postoperative outcomes.Perioperative bioADM was associated with postoperative organ dysfunction severity as reflected by SOFA. Correlations were weak at baseline and POD1 but became moderate to strong from POD2 onward, including POD2 (ρ = 0.74, p = 0.001), POD3 (ρ = 0.64, p = 0.012), and POD5 (ρ = 0.67, p = 0.008). Exploratory secondary analyses suggested associations with vasopressor requirement and renal deterioration, particularly dialysis requirement. In contrast, bioADM showed no consistent association with major complications, Clavien-Dindo grade, 30-day Comprehensive Complication Index, or 30-day mortality.In this small exploratory cohort (n = 17), perioperative bioADM was associated with early postoperative organ dysfunction after major hepatic resection, particularly from POD2 onward, but not with broader measures of postoperative morbidity or short-term mortality. Given the limited sample size and low number of events, these findings are hypothesis-generating and require validation in larger prospective cohorts before any conclusions regarding clinical utility can be drawn.© 2026. The Author(s).
Astrocytes participate in the clearance of obsolete or unwanted neuronal synapses. However, the molecular machinery involved in synapse recognition remains unclear, particularly in pathological conditions. Here, we investigated the phagocytic process of astrocytes through individual gene silencing using a druggable gene library. Our study demonstrates that the Atypical chemokine receptor 3 (Ackr3) is a major player of astrocyte-mediated synapse engulfment. Mechanistically, we showed that Ackr3 recognizes phosphatidylethanolamine (PE)-bound C-X-C motif chemokine 12 (CXCL12) at synaptic terminals, thus serving as a novel marker of synaptic dysfunction. Notably, both ACKR3 and CXCL12 are upregulated in post-mortem brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, and AD mouse models. Genetic downregulation of Ackr3 in AD mice significantly reduces astrocyte-mediated synaptic elimination and rescues pathological phenotypes, including synapse loss and cognitive impairment. Overall, this work unveils a novel, possibly targetable mechanism of astrocyte-mediated synaptic engulfment implicated in neurodegenerative disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory autoimmune skin disease for which no standardised and reliable molecular biomarkers of disease course or activity are currently available. Here, we aimed to identify serum biomarkers of psoriasis. Serum samples from 40 patients with psoriasis and 40 healthy volunteers were analysed using ELISA and Proximity Extension Assay proteomics. ELISA revealed significantly increased serum levels of AGO2 and APOA1 in psoriatic patients versus controls, with a strong association between APOA1 and psoriasis (OR = 20.72, 95% CI of 4.57-93.87, p = 0.000137). Targeted serum proteomics additionally identified 35 differentially expressed proteins, including well-known psoriasis drivers (e.g., top upregulated IL17A and SERPINB4). The most downregulated was adrenomedullin (ADM, FC = -10.12). For 14 altered proteins, no previous direct associations with psoriasis were reported. Among them, DEFB103A_DEFB103B and DSG3 showed the best discrimination between psoriasis and control samples, while SERPINB4 correlated with psoriasis severity. APOA1, DEFB103A_DEFB103B, and DSG3 emerge as novel candidate circulating psoriasis biomarkers, and SERPINB4 as a biomarker of psoriasis severity. The functional role of DSG3 and other newly identified proteins (ACRV1, HAO1, ADH4, GPD1, GFER, PTGES2, DSG3, AFAP1L1, GALNT3, RASGRP2, MAP2K6, LXN, NBEAL2, and VPS54) in psoriasis requires further studies.
Circulating Dipeptidyl Peptidase 3 (DPP3) hydrolyses dipeptides from the amino terminus of its substrates and excess levels represent a target for the treatment of cardiogenic shock. Known substrates include Angiotensin II (Ang II), but there might be more. Adrenomedullin (ADM) is a 52-mer peptide regulating vascular tone and integrity, which also is a therapeutic target for the treatment of shock. The pathways leading to shock involving DPP3 and ADM have been considered independent so far. Here, we assessed the influence of ADM on the activity of DPP3 in vitro using an established assay. ADM inhibited DPP3 activity at a similar IC50 concentration (6.5 µM) as the cognate substrate Ang II (6.6 µM). As opposed to Ang II, ADM was barely cleaved by DPP3 in vitro. Stepwise C-terminal truncation of ADM essentially did not change its inhibitory effect. Inhibition of DPP3 activity by ADM was reversed by an anti-N-terminal ADM antibody.
Natriuretic peptide receptor 2 (NPR2) expression in the hypertrophic zone of the growth plate is essential for endochondral ossification. Heterozygous variants in the NPR2 gene have been identified in 2-6 % of idiopathic short stature cases. Here, we present a large family with a novel heterozygous NPR2 variant, detailing endocrine features and long-term recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) therapy outcomes.A total of 18 subjects among the family exhibited short stature. The proband was a 5.2-year-old boy presenting with proportionate short stature, delayed bone age, facial abnormalities, premature delivery, small for gestational age and hypospadias. Whole-exome sequencing revealed a novel heterozygous variant, c.553G>A variant, in the NPR2 gene, leading to the missense variant site in the extracellular ligand-binding domain of NPR2 protein. All the family members with NPR2 gene mutation demonstrated marked short stature, except for four subjects. Five other children who received rhGH therapy were also included in the results. The difference between bone age and chronological age in all six children ranged from -2.3 to 0 years. The average height SDS before rhGH treatment ranged from -4.01 to -1.20 (-2.59 ± 1.16). The treatment has lasted for 4.68 ± 2.68 years, and height SDS improved by 1.54 ± 0.78 after rhGH therapy.Our study confirms NPR2 variants as a cause of familial short stature (FSS), with variability in phenotypes, clinical features, and rhGH response, even within families. Early genetic testing might be crucial for offspring with FSS, as it allows for timely initiation of rhGH therapy.© 2026 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.
Acute organ dysfunction is a primary driver of ICU mortality. As clinical scores often act as lagging indicators, early recognition of subclinical endothelial stress may be essential for timely intervention. This exploratory study investigated the association of mid-regional pro-adrenomedullin (MR-proADM)-a stable surrogate of the hormone adrenomedullin-as a potential early indicator of early organ failure.This retrospective, single-center study analyzed a heterogeneous cohort of 26 critically ill patients. Plasma MR-proADM levels were assessed at admission (t0) and daily for 5 days. The primary outcome was the correlation between admission MR-proADM and the 24-h SOFA score. Secondary outcomes included comparisons between septic and non-septic patients and between survivors and non-survivors.Admission MR-proADM showed a moderate correlation with the 24-h SOFA score (rho = 0.488; p = 0.021), with the most prominent associations observed within the cardiovascular and renal SOFA domains. In the septic subgroup, MR-proADM levels were higher than in non-septic patients (10.90 [IQR 5.91-19.00] vs. 1.30 [IQR 0.74-2.53] nmol/L, p < 0.001); ROC analysis yielded an AUC of 0.88 (95% CI 0.73-1.00; p < 0.001), although this estimate should be interpreted descriptively given the small number of septic cases. Despite the low number of mortality events (n = 4), higher admission MR-proADM values were observed in non-survivors than in survivors, although this finding remains preliminary. Furthermore, admission MR-proADM levels showed positive correlations with procalcitonin at each individual timepoint during the first five ICU days (p < 0.001 at each timepoint).Within the limits of this small cohort, MR-proADM might provide a biological window into incipient organ dysfunction. Its possible role in supporting clinical assessment of sepsis and risk stratification-particularly regarding hemodynamic and renal dysfunction-remains strictly hypothesis-generating and requires validation in larger, prospective multicenter studies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42418867 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42561932
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552064 is a review article
Kinase inhibitors (KIs) are essential in targeted cancer therapy but frequently cause cardiotoxicity, limiting their clinical utility. A systematic resource to explore the underlying causal mechanisms is urgently needed.We developed the Kinase Inhibitor Cardiotoxicity Database (KICDB ), an interactive web platform integrating large-scale transcriptomic meta-analysis with causal inference to identify molecular determinants of KI-induced cardiotoxicity.Meta-analysis of 5291 samples revealed a convergent disruption of the cellular mitotic machinery, specifically chromosome segregation and nuclear division, as a shared mechanism of toxicity across multiple KI classes. Furthermore, Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis identified 26 robust causal associations, linking specific kinase targets (e.g. RING finger protein 13 [RNF13] and tyrosine kinase with immunoglobulin like and EGF like domains 1 [TIE1]) to increased risks of cardiomyopathy and myocardial infarction, while identifying TYRO3 protein tyrosine kinase [Tyro3] and Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) as potential cardioprotective factors.KICDB provides a mechanistic framework linking transcriptomic perturbations with genetically validated causal drivers. By linking transcriptomic perturbations with causal validation, it serves as a resource to advance biomarker discovery, mechanistic exploration and the design of cardioprotective strategies.© 2026 British Pharmacological Society.
Apelin and Elabela are endogenous ligands of the apelin receptor (apelin receptor/APJ), a GPCR involved in cardiovascular regulation and body fluid homeostasis. The human receptor contains a conserved disulfide bridge linking the N-terminal domain to extracellular loop 3 (ECL3) via Cys19 and Cys281, forming a structural constraint analogous to a fourth extracellular loop ('ECL4'). In the chemokine receptor family, this motif plays a critical role in ligand engagement and receptor activation.The functional role of this disulfide bridge was investigated using site-directed mutagenesis (Cys19Ala and Cys281Ala), plasmon waveguide resonance binding assays and BRET-based biosensors to monitor Gαi activation and β-arrestin-2 recruitment.Disruption of the disulfide bridge did not affect receptor surface expression but markedly impaired binding of apelin fragments (pE13F and K17F), leading to reduced Gαi signalling and β-arrestin-2 recruitment. In contrast, binding of the Elabela fragment K22P and the subsequent apelin receptor signalling activation were largely preserved. Antagonist antibodies (JN241 and JN241-Fc) retained activity, whereas the agonist antibody JN241-9-Fc showed strongly reduced efficacy for the mutated receptors.The N-terminal/ECL3 disulfide bridge is a critical structural determinant for apelin binding and apelin receptor activation but is less critical for Elabela signalling, supporting distinct modes of ligand engagement. Antibody-mediated agonism is particularly sensitive to alterations of « ECL4 » without affecting its binding, suggesting that this structural constraint is required for optimal apelin receptor activation. The apelin receptor shares functional similarities with the chemokine receptors with respect to this.© 2026 The Author(s). British Journal of Pharmacology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Pharmacological Society.
The apelin receptor (APJ), a G protein-coupled receptor, has recently attracted attention as a potential modulator of memory processes, largely through the activity of its endogenous ligand, apelin. However, the effects of APJ blockade on memory, particularly in the process of reconsolidation, remain poorly understood. In this study, we investigated the role of the selective APJ antagonist 5-[(4-Nitrobenzoyl)oxy]-2-[(2-pyrimidinylthio)methyl]-4H-pyran-4-one (ML221) in modulating memory reconsolidation using the novel object recognition (NOR) paradigm. The NOR reconsolidation procedure consisted of three phases: sampling, reactivation, and test. We found that administration of ML221 immediately after reactivation enhanced memory performance in the NOR task at doses of 0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg, but not at 1 mg/kg. This facilitative effect was absent when ML221 (0.1 mg/kg) was administered 6 hours after reactivation. Furthermore, ML221 (0.1 mg/kg) delivered 24 h after the sample phase, in the absence of reactivation, had no effect on NOR performance. Importantly, none of the tested doses (0.1, 0.3, and 1 mg/kg) of ML221 altered general locomotor activity or exploratory behavior. In conclusion, these findings provide the first evidence that antagonism of APJ by ML221 enhances NOR memory reconsolidation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42346388 is a review article
Visceral fat gain and the progressive onset of metabolic disorders precipitate stroke risk and prompt the middle-aged population to cognitive decline. Preclinical research has recently focused on total apelin, a neuroprotective peptide whose cerebral action after release in plasma by adipose tissue remains elusive. The ratio between plasma apelin and lipids is suspected to influence prognosis in patients with cardiovascular diseases. This study challenged ratios of plasma apelin to cholesterol or glucose in reflecting post-stroke recovery of mature adult mice after a 6-month high-fat diet (HFD). Mice under HFD developed overweight (+10%, p < 0.001), hyperglycemia (21%, p < 0.001) and hypercholesterolemia (+68%, p < 0.001). Plasma apelin decreased with age in all mice (F2,360 = 35.94, p < 0.001), but a 30-min middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) induced a 27% drop in plasma apelin (p < 0.01) in HFD-fed mice only, as well as a higher acute mortality (29%) than in normal diet (ND)-fed mice (19%). Ten days after MCAO, apelin levels normalized in HFD-fed mice, but were still decreasing in ND-fed mice (p < 0.01). However, high pre-stroke ratios revealed an upregulation of brain apelin receptor expression in these mice, that was lost in metabolically disturbed mice displaying lower ratios. This was functionally confirmed since mice with higher pre-stroke ratios displayed significantly better locomotor and cognitive performances, as validated by ROC analysis (AUC = 0.85). This study highlights pre-stroke ratios of plasma apelin to cholesterol or glucose as potential new biomarkers of post-stroke recovery.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Autoimmune thyroiditis (AIT) is characterized by extensive lymphocytic infiltration and progressive destruction of thyroid follicular cells (TFCs), yet the molecular mechanisms underlying persistent thyroid injury remain poorly defined. Here, methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3) mediated N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification is identified as a central driver of thyroid inflammation. METTL3 expression and m6A levels were markedly increased in TFCs from AIT patients and EAT mice, and are positively associated with immune inflammation scores. Genetic or pharmacological inhibition of METTL3 suppressed the KDR (kinase insert domain receptor, also known as vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2, VEGFR2)/VEGFA signaling loop, reduced inflammatory cytokine release and lymphocyte infiltration, restored Th17/Treg homeostasis, and alleviated thyroid injury. Mechanistically, ROS promoted METTL3 transcription through inhibition of SIRT1-dependent epigenetic repression, while METTL3-mediated m6A modification stabilized KDR mRNA in a YTHDC2-dependent manner. In turn, activated KDR established an autocrine-paracrine KDR/VEGFA amplification circuit that sustained inflammatory signaling. Together, these findings uncover the METTL3-KDR axis as a critical epitranscriptomic mechanism driving chronic thyroid inflammation and nominate it as a promising therapeutic target for AIT.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Hereditary hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a common genetic heart disease associated with heart failure and sudden cardiac death. Current therapies are limited, and the myosin inhibitor mavacamten is constrained by safety concerns and restricted applicability. ELABELA (ELA), an endogenous ligand of the apelin receptor (APJ), plays an important role in cardiovascular regulation, but its involvement in HCM remains unclear.This study aimed to determine the role of ELA in hereditary HCM and to assess the therapeutic potential of restoring ELA signaling.ELA and APJ expression were examined in myocardial tissues from HCM patients and in two sarcomere mutation-driven mouse models of HCM. The effects of ELA were evaluated using AAV9-mediated overexpression and chronic administration of mature ELA peptide. Cardiac function and remodeling were assessed by echocardiography and histology. Cellular and molecular mechanisms were investigated using cardiomyocyte calcium imaging, contractility assays, transcriptomic analysis, and pharmacological interventions.ELA expression was significantly reduced, whereas APJ expression was increased, in human and murine HCM hearts. Restoration of ELA signaling markedly improved cardiac function, alleviated pathological hypertrophy and fibrosis, and improved diastolic performance in both HCM models. In vitro, ELA normalized cardiomyocyte hypertrophy, corrected abnormal calcium (Ca2⁺) transients, and reduced hypercontractility. Mechanistically, ELA suppressed Ca2⁺-dependent activation of the calcineurin-NFAT and MAPK signaling pathways in an APJ-dependent manner. Sustained ELA overexpression for up to 12 months maintained therapeutic efficacy without evidence of receptor desensitization.ELA deficiency is a conserved feature of hereditary HCM. Restoring ELA-APJ signaling reverses cardiac dysfunction and pathological remodeling by normalizing Ca2+ handling and inhibiting hypertrophic signaling pathways, identifying ELA as a promising disease-modifying therapeutic target for HCM.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Mutations in the BRAF (B-raf serine-threonine-protein kinase) gene occur in the majority of melanoma patients and significantly contribute to the progression of the disease. One of the most commonly used methods for treating melanoma is the use of BRAF and MEK (mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase) inhibitors. Unfortunately, resistance to treatment quickly develops in most patients. Therefore, an exhaustive understanding of the molecular basis of this resistance is crucial. We developed two melanoma cell lines resistant to vemurafenib (BRAF inhibitor) and cobimetinib (MEK inhibitor), which we previously characterized as highly invasive. Because cancer cells acquiring resistance may undergo significant metabolic changes, we investigated these processes in the obtained melanoma double-resistant cells. These cells exhibit increased glycolysis and elevated caveolin 1 levels, which contribute to their increased invasiveness. The mitochondria present in the peripheral region of the resistant cells are more functional than those present in the same region of control cells. Resistant cells also form more lipid droplets, but they are smaller than in control cells. Cholesterol ester level is reduced in resistant cells, while free cholesterol level is elevated. Moreover, resistant cells exhibit reduced lipolysis rate and expression of proteins regulating this process. In summary, the obtained results suggest that the purpose of metabolic changes present in melanoma cells resistant to BRAF/MEK inhibitors is mainly to support the significantly increased invasiveness of these cells.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
CD30 positivity serves as a critical diagnostic hallmark for anaplastic lymphoma kinase positive anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALK+ ALCL); however, rare cases with partial or complete loss of CD30 expression present diagnostic challenges. We report a unique case with two morphologically and immunophenotypically distinct subpopulations within the same tumor: A typical CD30-positive component and a CD30-negative counterpart. Comparative genetic analysis revealed overlapping but divergent molecular features, including nucleophosmin 1-ALK (NPM1-ALK) fusion, notch receptor 1 mutations, and differential gene amplifications involving MYC proto-oncogene and BCL2-like 1. These findings offer insights into the regulatory mechanisms of CD30 and highlight that loss of CD30 expression alone should not preclude the diagnosis of ALK-positive ALCL, underscoring the importance of integrated histopathological and molecular evaluation in diagnostically challenging cases. Meanwhile, it provides a basis for optimizing the diagnostic process of clinically suspected cases.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Scientific Scholar.
Targeting lipid metabolism reprogramming presents a potential strategy to overcome drug resistance and enhance treatment outcomes in pancreatic cancer. Caveolin-1, a critical regulator of lipid metabolism, is highly expressed in pancreatic cancer, indicating its viability as a novel therapeutic target. To address the poor biocompatibility and inadequate tumor targeting associated with methyl-β-cyclodextrin (MβCD)-an indirect inhibitor of Caveolin-1 function through cholesterol chelation-novel MβCD@hyaluronic acid-adamantane (MβCD@HA-Ad) nanoparticles were developed to enhance therapeutic efficacy against pancreatic cancer. These nanoparticles achieve dual targeting via HA-mediated CD44 receptor binding and MβCD-driven Caveolin-1 metabolic inhibition, while exhibiting acid-responsive release properties that enhance their responsiveness to the pancreatic cancer microenvironment. In vitro studies suggest that MβCD@HA-Ad nanoparticles possess improved drug penetration capacity and enhanced antitumor effects. Inhibition of Caveolin-1 induces cell membrane stretching and increases Piezo1 sensitivity to mechanical stimuli, resulting in elevated intracellular Ca2+ influx, activation of PLA2G4A phosphorylation, and subsequent promotion of lipolysis. Concurrently, impaired endocytosis reduces fatty acid uptake, resulting in decreased lipid droplet accumulation. Non-targeted metabolomics analysis indicates that Caveolin-1 regulates glycerophospholipid and fatty acid metabolism in pancreatic cancer cells, influencing cellular growth, migration, and invasiveness. In a mouse model of pancreatic cancer, MβCD@HA-Ad nanoparticles exhibited excellent biosafety, efficient tumor-targeting capabilities, and sustained antitumor effects. By reducing lipid deposition in tumor tissues, these nanoparticles significantly delayed tumor progression and inhibited tumor cell proliferation. In summary, MβCD@HA-Ad nanoparticles exert precise antitumor effects by targeting Caveolin-1 and modulating the Piezo1/PLA2G4A signaling axis to disrupt lipid metabolism, thereby presenting a novel nanotherapeutic strategy for pancreatic cancer.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42518953 is a review article
Single-molecule localization microscopy (SMLM) achieves nanoscale imaging of complex protein structures in the cell. However, the ability to capture structural variability across cell conditions (cell lines, gene expression, treatment) from 3D point cloud SMLM data remains limited. We present siMILe, a weakly supervised multiple instance learning machine learning method to close this gap in interpretable subcellular discovery. siMILe identifies condition-specific changes in protein assemblies by leveraging their shape and network features, without requiring structure-level supervision. siMILe improves structure classification by extending embedded instance selection through adversarial erasing and a symmetric classifier. We validated siMILe by detecting caveolae from caveolin-1 (Cav1) labeled PC3 prostate cancer cells differentially expressing cavin-1. In PC3-CAVIN1 cells, cavin-1 closely associates with siMILe-identified caveolae, to a lesser extent with higher-order noncaveolar Cav1 scaffolds, but not small Cav1 oligomers corresponding to 8S complexes, supporting a role for progressive cavin-1 interaction in 8S complex oligomerization. We also validated siMILe on simulated SMLM data and in detecting inhibitor-induced structural variations within clathrin-coated pit data. These results highlight siMILe's potential to identify differential molecular structures in distinct cell conditions. siMILe extends the SuperResNET SMLM software platform with the ability to detect interpretable structural differences across conditions.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Intelligent Systems published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Factors limiting fat cell expandability remain scarcely explored, and comprehensive functional comparisons of adipose depots in humans are limited. In the present study, we collected visceral adipose tissue (VAT) and subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT) paired-samples from 22 patients with obesity undergoing elective Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery. Whole tissue samples were used to determine adipocyte cell size using a coulter counter and gene expression levels using bulk mRNA sequencing. Isolated adipocytes from the same tissue samples were used to functionally assess glucose uptake using glucose tracer assay, and lipolysis by measuring glycerol release. Western blotting was used to determine Caveolin 1 levels in adipocytes. The relationship between COL3A1 expression and systemic health outcomes was assessed using data from the Adipose Tissue Knowledge Portal. We found that SAT adipocytes were larger in size, displayed higher basal lipolysis and higher lipolysis-related gene expression than VAT adipocytes. Isoprenaline-induced lipolytic responsiveness, as well as basal and insulin-stimulated glucose uptake were higher in VAT than in SAT adipocytes. SAT displayed higher levels of extracellular matrix components associated with cellular flexibility and higher cellular Caveolin 1 levels than VAT. Further, we identified subcutaneous adipose tissue COL3A1 as a potential contributor to insulin resistance in obesity, positively associated with BMI, HOMA-IR and adipocyte size. In summary, our findings underscore distinct metabolic properties of subcutaneous and visceral adipocytes in obesity, with SAT adipose tissue exhibiting characteristics that possibly promote greater cellular expandability.
No effective clinical therapeutic strategies are currently available for paraquat (PQ)-induced pulmonary fibrosis. This study determined whether metformin (MET) ameliorates PQ-induced pulmonary fibrosis and the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in alveolar epithelial cells and explored the underlying molecular mechanisms. Expression of EMT-related markers, ferroptosis-related indicators, and caveolin-1 were examined and the regulatory role of the EZH2/H3K27me3 axis was evaluated using in vitro and in vivo models. PQ induced the EMT and ferroptosis in MLE-12 cells. MET upregulated caveolin-1 expression by inhibiting EZH2 and reducing H3K27me3, which in turn suppressed ferroptosis. MET attenuated PQ-induced pulmonary fibrosis via this signaling pathway and these results were further validated in animal models.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Periodontal disease is one of the most common oral disorders in dogs and is characterized by inflammation and destruction of periodontal tissues. This study aimed to compare local and systemic inflammatory and oxidative stress biomarkers in dogs with gingivitis and periodontitis and to evaluate neopterin as a potential biomarker of periodontal inflammation.A total of 52 dogs were included, comprising 26 dogs with gingivitis and 26 dogs with periodontitis. Gingival crevicular fluid (GCF), blood, and serum samples were collected. Total oxidant status (TOS), total antioxidant status (TAS), caveolin-1, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, neopterin, and selected hematological variables were measured. Biomarker concentrations and correlations between serum and GCF were evaluated.Dogs with periodontitis exhibited significantly higher serum TOS, TAS, and IL-6 concentrations than dogs with gingivitis (p < 0.001). In contrast, serum and GCF concentrations of IL-1β, MCP-1, caveolin-1, and neopterin were significantly higher in dogs with gingivitis (p < 0.001). Neutrophil and monocyte counts were also higher in the gingivitis group. Significant correlations were identified between serum and GCF biomarker concentrations.Periodontal disease in dogs was associated with distinct stage-dependent inflammatory and oxidative stress profiles. Gingivitis was characterized by increased levels of several inflammatory mediators, whereas periodontitis was associated with increased oxidative stress and IL-6 concentrations. These findings suggest that local and systemic biomarker responses vary according to periodontal disease stage and warrant further investigation of GCF biomarkers for monitoring periodontal inflammation.Copyright © 2026 Doğu Turgut and Efe Kurtdede. International Journal of Dentistry published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
GLIS family zinc finger 3 (GLIS3) is a transcription factor implicated in multiple malignancies, but its role in stomach adenocarcinoma (STAD) and its downstream effector axis remain unclear. We investigated whether GLIS3 coordinates epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and cancer stem cell (CSC)-like programs in STAD through a signaling cascade.GLIS3 expression and prognostic associations were analyzed using transcriptomic datasets from The Cancer Genome Atlas, Genotype-Tissue Expression, and Gene Expression Omnibus. GLIS3 protein levels were evaluated by immunohistochemistry in 133 paired STAD tissues. Survival was assessed by Kaplan-Meier analysis together with multivariable regression models. Gain- and loss-of-function studies were performed in AGS and HGC-27 cells to evaluate proliferation, migration, EMT and CSC-like phenotypes. Mechanistic experiments interrogated a GLIS3-transforming growth factor beta receptor 3 (TGFBR3)-Hedgehog axis using ChIP-qPCR, dual-luciferase assays, co-immunoprecipitation, GLI reporter assays, and vismodegib treatment. Tumor growth was assessed in xenograft models.GLIS3 was consistently upregulated in STAD across public datasets and in the clinical cohort (median H-score: 112 vs 39, P < 0.001) and was associated with adverse clinicopathological features and poor survival. In the TCGA cohort, higher GLIS3 expression was associated with greater nodal burden, more advanced nodal and metastatic status, and worse vital status. In multivariable Cox models restricted to cases with defined stage classifications, GLIS3 remained independently associated with worse overall survival in the primary model (hazard ratio = 1.45, 95% confidence interval: 1.04-2.02; P = 0.031), with a consistent result in the sensitivity model. Functionally, GLIS3 enhanced proliferation and migration and promoted EMT marker switching and CSC-like traits. Mechanistically, GLIS3 transcriptionally activated TGFBR3 and increased Hedgehog pathway activity; bidirectional rescue experiments showed that TGFBR3 overexpression partially restored, whereas TGFBR3 silencing attenuated, GLIS3-driven EMT/CSC-like phenotypes and growth-related functions. Xenograft experiments supported an in vivo growth-promoting role of the GLIS3-TGFBR3-Hedgehog axis.GLIS3 identifies an aggressive STAD phenotype and engages a TGFBR3-Hedgehog program linked to EMT and CSC-like features. These findings support further evaluation of GLIS3 as a biomarker for risk stratification and provide a rationale for biomarker-guided targeting of the GLIS3-TGFBR3-Hedgehog axis in STAD.Copyright © 2026 Xiao, Deng, Li, Zheng and Zhang.
Obesity is associated with insulin resistance, a major risk factor for type 2 diabetes (T2D), yet the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely defined. We hypothesized that elevated transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGFβ1) level is associated with impaired insulin sensitivity.Using primary hepatocytes, and mouse models with hepatic TGFβ1 overexpression or hepatic TGFβ1 signaling disruption, we examined the impact of TGFβ1 signaling on hepatic insulin signaling and glucose metabolism. We performed bulk RNA sequencing of liver samples identify potential mediator of obesity-induced insulin resistance. Immunoprecipitation, in vitro kinase assay, and mass-spec assay were used to explore the mechanisms underlying TGFβ1-induced insulin receptor substrate (IRS1) degradation. We further evaluated the therapeutic potential of targeting TGFβ1 signaling to improve glycemic control using the TGFβ1 signaling inhibitor LY2157299.Prolonged TGFβ1 exposure markedly reduced IRS1 protein abundance and impaired insulin-stimulated Akt activation in hepatocytes. Hepatic TGFβ1 overexpression exacerbated insulin resistance, whereas hepatic TGFβ1 signaling disruption improved insulin sensitivity by increasing IRS1 protein abundance. Mechanistically, TGFβ1 signaling increased Cullin 7 (CUL7) expression and promoted IRS1 phosphorylation at serine 685, leading to ubiquitin-dependent IRS1 degradation. Pharmacological inhibition of TGFβ1 signaling by LY2157299 improved insulin sensitivity in both lean and diabetic db/db mice.These findings identify TGFβ1 as a key driver of hepatic insulin resistance by promoting CUL7-dependent IRS1 degradation, establishing a mechanistic link between obesity-associated cytokine signaling and impaired insulin action and highlighting the TGFβ1-CUL7-IRS1 axis as a potential therapeutic target for T2D.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41890823 is a review article
3M syndrome is a rarely inherited autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in cullin-7 (CUL7), obscurin-like 1 (OBSL1), and coiled-coil domain containing protein 8 (CCDC8). It is associated with multiple dysmorphic features, including characteristic facial dysmorphism (a face that is triangular, full lips, frontal bossing, a nasal tip that is fleshy, long philtrum, protruding ears and macrocephaly), severe growth retardation prenatally and postnatally and normal intelligence. Although there are multiple skeletal manifestations of the syndrome, such as joint laxity, there is no mention of developmental dysplasia of the hip (DDH) to be associated with it anywhere in the literature. Therefore, we present the first case of bilateral DDH in a patient with 3M syndrome, which was managed similarly to other DDH cases with operative reduction, pelvic osteotomies, and femoral shortening, with a satisfactory outcome after 3 years of follow-up.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press and JSCR Publishing Ltd.
Pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a highly lethal malignancy characterized by profound resistance to immunotherapy. Converting immunologically “cold” tumors into “hot” tumors by enhancing T cell infiltration represents a promising therapeutic strategy, yet the vascular mechanisms regulating immune recruitment in PDAC remain poorly defined. Here, we integrated single-cell RNA sequencing with GEPIA analysis and spatial transcriptomics to investigate the functional role of Ras Interacting Protein 1 (RASIP1)-positive endothelial cells in PDAC. We identified RASIP1-positive tumor endothelial cells as a distinct endothelial subpopulation enriched in leukocyte transendothelial migration pathways, with upregulated adhesion molecules and spatial co-localization with T-effector and IFN-γ signatures. Multiplex immunohistochemistry of human PDAC tissues revealed prominent perivascular accumulation of CD8⁺/GranzymeB⁺ cytotoxic T lymphocytes surrounding RASIP1-positive vessels. Mechanistically, RASIP1 knockdown reduced ICAM1 expression, whereas RASIP1 overexpression enhanced ICAM1 signaling, and both modulated ERK phosphorylation dynamics, suggesting that RASIP1 regulates endothelial functionality through ERK-related signaling. Collectively, our findings identify a distinct endothelial state that actively shapes the immune microenvironment of PDAC. Targeting RASIP1-positive endothelial cells may represent a potential strategy to enhance tumor immunogenicity and improve responsiveness to immunotherapy.
PAX-interacting protein 1 (PTIP/PAXIP1) was discovered and initially characterized over three decades ago as a 1,056 amino acid-containing protein with six tandem BReast cancer C-Terminal (BRCT) repeats. PTIP functions broadly to catalyze histone methylation in DNA damage repair and within the hematopoietic lineage, to promote immunoglobulin variable region (variable, diversity, joining [VDJ]) and class switch recombination (CSR). In this report, we show that a fraction of PTIP is actively transported from the nucleus to mitochondria resulting in their aggregation, release of cytochrome c into the cytoplasm and cellular apoptosis. Deletion of an N-terminal glutamine-rich region (QR), mutation of a conserved threonine within BRCT3 and truncation of the C-terminal BRCT5 domain each significantly reduced apoptosis as well as its previously documented G2/M cell cycle function. This is the first report to identify a mitochondrial-based apoptotic mechanism employed by the PTIP transcription factor.
The abnormal proliferation, migration, and angiogenesis of retinal microvascular endothelial cells (RMECs) are key pathological mechanisms involved in diabetic retinopathy (DR). This study aims to investigate the regulatory role of PAX interacting protein 1 (PTIP) in modulating proliferation, angiogenesis, and inflammatory responses in RMECs under high-glucose conditions. The levels of PTIP, VEGF, MDA, and SOD were measured in RMECs cultured under both normal and high-glucose conditions. A PTIP overexpression vector and a PTIP interference vector were constructed and transfected into RMECs exposed to high glucose. Cell proliferation was assessed using the CCK-8 assay, cell migration capacity was evaluated through wound healing assays, and tube formation ability was analyzed using Matrigel-based assays. Intracellular MDA and SOD levels were determined biochemically, while TNF-α and IL-6 concentrations in the culture supernatants were quantified by ELISA. The expression levels of EGR3, VEGF, MMP3, and MMP9 were detected using Western blotting and immunofluorescence techniques. The results showed that the expressions of PTIP and SOD were down-regulated in RMECs exposed to high glucose, whereas the levels of VEGF and MDA were up-regulated. Overexpression of PTIP in high-glucose-treated RMECs significantly suppressed cell proliferation, tube formation, and migration abilities. Additionally, it markedly reduced the levels of MDA, IL-6, TNF-α, EGR3, VEGF, MMP3, and MMP9 while increasing the level of SOD. Conversely, PTIP knockdown in RMECs under high-glucose conditions elicited opposite effects. Thus, overexpression of PTIP mitigated the impairment of proliferation, migration, and tube formation abilities, as well as reduced the inflammatory response induced by high glucose in RMECs.© 2026. The Author(s).
3M syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by biallelic pathogenic variants in the cullin 7 (CUL7), obscurin-like 1 (OBSL1), and coiled-coil domain-containing protein 8 (CCDC8) genes and is characterized by pre- and postnatal growth retardation, short stature, dysmorphic facial features, and skeletal anomalies, with normal intelligence.In this study, we report a 6-year-old female patient from China diagnosed with 3M syndrome. The patient presented with typical clinical features of growth retardation and short stature, with normal intelligence. The patient's dysmorphic facial features included relative macrocephaly, a protruding forehead, a triangular face, a pointed chin, a flat nasal bridge, full lips, a long philtrum, and a broad lower jaw. The skeletal survey was normal except for clinodactyly of the fifth fingers of both hands. Growth hormone (GH) deficiency was excluded by normal serum hormone levels and the GH stimulation test results. Whole-exome sequencing identified two heterozygous variants in CUL7, NM_014780.5: c.1639_1640del (p.Leu547Alafs*6), and NM_014780.5: c.4505T>C (p.Ile1502Thr). Parental Sanger sequencing confirmed these as compound heterozygous variants, with one variant inherited from each parent. Neither variant has been previously reported. The patient has been treated with recombinant human IGF-1 for 2 years since she was 4 years old and has achieved a growth velocity of approximately 6-7 cm per year.Herein, we describe a Chinese patient with 3M syndrome caused by novel biallelic pathogenic variants in CUL7 from a non-consanguineous family, expanding the genetic spectrum of CUL7 in the Chinese population.© 2025 Liu, Liu, Suo, Han, Wang and Ding.
Sepsis-associated encephalopathy (SAE) is a common and serious neurological complication of sepsis. This study aimed to investigate the mechanism of methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3) in SAE-induced microglial pyroptosis and to identify new therapeutic targets for SAE treatment.A SAE cell model was established using lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-treated BV-2 cells. The expression of interleukin-1β, interleukin-18, cleaved caspase-1, gasdermin D (GSDMD)-N, NOD-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3), transforming growth factor beta receptor 3 (TGFBR3), and METTL3 was detected by. METTL3 was silenced in LPS-treated BV-2 cells to validate the role of METTL3 in microglial pyroptosis. Total N6-methyladenosine (m6A) content was measured. The binding of primary miRNA (pri-miR)-101-3p to DGCR8 and the m6A level of pri-miR-101-3p were analyzed by methylated RNA immunoprecipitation-qPCR. The expression of pri-miR-101-3p and miR-101-3p was measured by reverse transcription quantitative PCR. The downstream targets of miR-101-3p were predicted by databases, and the binding relationship between miR-101-3p and TGFBR3 was verified. Rescue experiments were performed to verify the role of METTL3/miR-101-3p/TGFBR3 axis in microglial pyroptosis.LPS treatment decreased cell viability and promoted interleukin-1β, interleukin-18, METTL3, cleaved caspase-1, GSDMD-N, and NLRP3. Silencing METTL3 inhibited microglial pyroptosis. Mechanistically, METTL3 promoted the binding of pri-miR-101-3p to DGCR8 through m6A modification and increased mature miR-101-3p expression. miR-101-3p targeted TGFBR3 and inhibited TGFBR3 expression. miR-101-3p overexpression or TGFBR3 downregulation partially reversed the inhibitory effect of silencing METTL3 on LPS-induced microglial pyroptosis.METTL3 is upregulated in SAE, enhances miR-101-3p expression through m6A modification, and inhibits TGFBR3 expression, finally leading to microglial pyroptosis in SAE.Copyright © 2025 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
NCOA4, a dedicated autophagy receptor for mediating selective autophagy of ferritin (ferritinophagy), plays a vital role in maintaining cellular iron homeostasis. The cellular abundance of NCOA4 is regulated by the E3 ligase HERC2 that can specifically target NCOA4 for proteasomal degradation under iron-replete conditions. However, the detailed molecular mechanism governing the iron-dependent recognition of NCOA4 by HERC2 remains elusive. Here, using multidisciplinary approaches, we systematically characterize the HERC2-binding domain (HBD) of NCOA4 and its interaction with HERC2. We uncover that NCOA4 HBD harbors a [2Fe-2S] cluster and can exist in two different states, the apo-form state and the [2Fe-2S] cluster-bound state. Moreover, we unravel that HERC2 can effectively recognize the [2Fe-2S] cluster-bound NCOA4 HBD through its Cullin-7-PARC-HERC2 (CPH) domain and iron-sulfur cluster-dependent NCOA4-binding domain (INBD) with a synergistic binding mode. The determined crystal structures of HERC2(2540-2700) and its complex with the [2Fe-2S] cluster-bound NCOA4 HBD together with relevant biochemical and cellular results not only elucidate how NCOA4 HBD specifically senses cellular iron level by binding a [2Fe-2S] cluster but also reveal the molecular basis underlying the specific interaction of HERC2 with the [2Fe-2S] cluster-bound NCOA4 HBD. In summary, our findings provide mechanistic insights into the iron-dependent turnover of NCOA4 by HERC2 and expand our understanding of the regulatory mechanism of NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy.
Heterozygosity for the pathogenic missense TBX5 (T-box transcription factor 5) variant p.G125R, identified in members of a family presenting with atypical Holt-Oram syndrome, is associated with supraventricular arrhythmias, including atrial fibrillation and disrupted sinus rhythm. Tbx5+/G125R mice recapitulated major aspects of the patient phenotype, including increased susceptibility for atrial arrhythmias, and revealed deregulation of the adult atrial cardiomyocyte transcriptional regulatory network and epigenetic state. Because TBX5 has also been implicated in the development and function of the sinus node and atria, and both patients and Tbx5+/G125R mice present with indications for sinus node dysfunction, we explored the impact of TBX5-p.G125R on gene expression in the fetal and adult sinus node and atria using spatial transcriptomics. We found that TBX5-p.G125R-mediated transcriptional alterations in the atria are initiated prior to birth, culminating in atrial arrhythmias in adult mice, while prenatal sinus node development and transcriptome were largely unaffected. However, TBX5-p.G125R induces a transcriptional state change in adult sinus node pacemaker cardiomyocytes, modifying pacemaker electrophysiology and disrupting intrinsic sinus node function. We conclude that alterations driven by TBX5-p.G125R in the transcriptional state of the postnatal sinus node contribute to sinus node dysfunction and atrial arrhythmias in adult Tbx5+/G125R mice. This emphasizes the critical role of TBX5 in maintaining pacemaker cardiomyocyte state and function.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a multifactorial joint disease characterized by progressive cartilage degeneration and chronic inflammation of the synovial membrane. A critical hallmark of OA is the depletion of high-molecular-weight hyaluronan (HA), which impairs lubrication and perpetuates a catabolic microenvironment. To restore endogenous HA biosynthesis, we engineered a cadherin-11 (CDH11)-targeted, pH-responsive nanocarrier (CMN-CDH11) based on amphiphilic carboxymethyl-hexanoyl chitosan-poly(ethylene glycol)-maleimide for the intracellular delivery of hyaluronan synthase 2 (HAS2). These nanocarriers (∼350 nm) leveraged a pH-triggered charge-reversal mechanism, transitioning from -10.88 mV at pH 7.0 to a positive potential of +34.40 mV at pH 4.5. Confocal imaging confirmed that this strategy facilitated endosomal escape, enabling cytosolic delivery of enzymatically active HAS2 for subsequent HA biosynthesis. In vitro results in fibroblast-like synoviocytes demonstrated that CDH11-mediated targeting enhanced cellular association by 2.5-fold, leading to a significant upregulation of HAS2 expression and secretion of bioactive HA with a weight-average molecular weight of 2.05 MDa. In a rabbit ACLT model with three animals per group, HAS2@CMN-CDH11 treatment promoted superior matrix regeneration and sulfated glycosaminoglycan deposition compared with conventional HA injections. We further demonstrated that the HAS2@CMN-CDH11 platform transitioned OA therapy from exogenous HA supplementation to cell-mediated HA production within a 6-week observation period, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic strategy for osteoarthritis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Atrial septal defect (ASD) is a type of congenital heart defect characterized by the absence of atrial septal tissue. Research has shown that genetic factors play a significant role in the development of ASD. Variants in genes such as GATA binding protein 4 (GATA4), NK2 homeobox 5, and T-box transcription factor 5 have been identified in patients with ASD. In this study, we enrolled a Chinese family affected by ASD and PS. Whole exome sequencing and Sanger sequencing were used to investigate the genetic basis of lesions in this family. The AC16 cell line was used to perform the functional study. After data filtering and co-segregation analysis, we identified a rare mutation (NM_001308093.3: c.790G > A, p.Ala264Thr) in the GATA4 gene in the affected family members that was absent in the unaffected individuals. Bioinformatic analysis revealed that the newly identified mutation was deleterious and altered the hydrophobicity, size and polar of the GATA4 protein. Functional studies revealed that this rare mutation disrupted the stability of GATA4 and reduced the ability of GATA4 to activate the downstream target genes. Our findings highlight the importance of the N-terminal zinc finger structure of GATA4 in cardiac development. Additionally, our study contributes to the genetic diagnosis and counseling of families with congenital heart disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Metabolic reprogramming and epigenetic alterations play important roles in driving tumor microenvironment (TME) remodeling and immune evasion in gastric cancer (GC). Histone lactylation links glycolytic metabolism to transcriptional regulation, but its role in Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori)-associated GC progression remains largely elusive.Multiomics analysis (ChIP-seq and RNA-seq) with in vitro GC/CD8+ T-cell coculture systems and in vivo mouse xenograft models were employed in this study. Clinical GC tissue cohorts were analyzed to validate the clinical relevance of the identified signaling pathways. The epigenetic and immunological impacts of lactate metabolism were assessed using glycolysis inhibitors (2-DG and oxamate) and genetic silencing of LDHA and LDHB.Histone lactylation, specifically H3K18la, was significantly elevated in GC tissues and further elevated upon H. pylori infection. Pharmacological inhibition of glycolysis or LDHA/B double knockdown (DKD) markedly reduced H3K18la levels, suppressed GC cell proliferation, and restored CD8+ T cell-mediated cytotoxicity. Mechanistically, H3K18la directly bound to the HAS2 promoter, transcriptionally activating its expression. Upregulated HAS2 facilitated the nuclear translocation of c-MYC, which subsequently bound to the CD274 promoter to induce PD-L1 expression. Furthermore, c-MYC overexpression rescued PD-L1 levels and reversed the restored CD8+ T-cell cytotoxicity in LDHA/B-deficient GC cells. In vivo, the combination of oxamate and anti-PD-1 blockade synergistically enhanced CD8+ T-cell infiltration and exerted robust antitumor efficacy.H. pylori-associated lactate-driven H3K18la promotes GC progression and immune evasion through the HAS2/c-MYC/PD-L1 axis. These findings provide preclinical support for combining metabolic inhibition with PD-1 blockade in GC, particularly in H. pylori-associated disease.
This study investigates the potential mechanism underlying the therapeutic effect of Coptidis Rhizoma-Aucklandiae Radix for ulcerative colitis(UC) in mice from glycocalyx remodeling. The mouse model of UC was established with 2.5% dextran sodium sulfate(DSS). Fifty C57BL/6J mice were randomly assigned to five groups: control, model, sulfasalazine(100 mg·kg~(-1)), low-dose(0.64 g·kg~(-1)) Coptidis Rhizoma-Aucklandiae Radix, and high-dose(1.28 g·kg~(-1)) Coptidis Rhizoma-Aucklandiae Radix. Changes in body weight and hematochezia were monitored throughout the experiment, and the disease activity index(DAI) was calculated accordingly. At the end of the experiment, hematoxylin-eosin(HE) staining was performed to evaluate histopathological changes in the colon tissue. Evans blue dye extravasation was employed to assess colonic vascular permeability. RT-qPCR was conducted to quantify the mRNA levels of inflammatory cytokines, markers of intestinal barrier injury, and glycocalyx-related genes in the colon tissue. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay(ELISA) was employed to measure the serum levels of shed hyaluronic acid(HA). Immunofluorescence staining was adopted to detect HA-positive signals in the colonic glycocalyx. Transmission electron microscopy(TEM) was utilized to examine the ultrastructural integrity of colonic vascular endothelial cells and the extent of glycocalyx shedding. The results demonstrated that compared with the control group, the model group exhibited significant body weight loss, marked shortening of the colon, elevated DAI, severe hematochezia, pronounced inflammatory cell infiltration, increased colonic vascular permeability, upregulated expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines including tumor necrosis factor(TNF)-α, interleukin(IL)-6, and IL-1β, downregulated expression of tight junction proteins such as Zonula occludens(ZO)-1, Occludin, and Claudin-5, increased expression of vascular cell adhesion molecule(VCAM)-1, altered expression of glycocalyx-modifying enzymes, specifically increased matrix metalloproteinase 1(MMP1) and hyaluronidase 2(Hyal2) and decreased hyaluronan synthase 2(HAS2), along with substantial shedding of endothelial glycocalyx-derived HA into circulation, as evidenced by elevated serum HA concentrations, and severe ultrastructural damage of colonic vascular endothelial cells with marked glycocalyx degradation as revealed by TEM. In comparison with the model group, both the low-and high-dose Coptidis Rhizoma-Aucklandiae Radix groups showed significantly attenuated weight loss and hematochezia, significantly lowered DAI scores, reduced inflammatory infiltration, improved intestinal barrier function, declined levels of TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-1β, restored expression of ZO-1, Occludin, and Claudin-5, reduced VCAM-1 expression, significantly downregulated expression of MMP1 and Hyal2, significantly increased HAS2 expression, suppressed HA shedding, and preserved endothelial glycocalyx structure with less ultrastructural damage observed under TEM. In summary, Coptidis Rhizoma-Aucklandiae Radix ameliorates UC in mice, potentially through mediating glycocalyx remodeling and thereby protecting the integrity of the intestinal vascular endothelial barrier.
The aim was to evaluate the effects of liberal and restrictive intraoperative fluid strategies on the gene-level markers of endothelial glycocalyx biology during major urological surgery. Specifically, NPPA (ANP) representing the ANP axis, the core proteoglycan SDC1 (syndecan-1), and key genes of glycosaminoglycan metabolism, HPSE (heparanase) and HAS2 (hyaluronan synthase-2), were examined.In a prospective, randomized design, peripheral blood samples were collected from 39 patients in the preoperative and postoperative periods. Total RNA was isolated, and MIQE-compliant RT-qPCR was performed. Primary endpoints were NPPA and SDC1, while exploratory endpoints included HPSE and HAS2. Analyses were performed using ΔCt-based calculations, and results were reported as 2-ΔΔCt fold-changes; statistical significance was set at two-tailed p < 0.05.Preoperatively, SDC1 was suppressed in both groups. Postoperatively, the liberal group showed significant increases in NPPA (p = 0.025) and SDC1 (p = 0.0068), whereas in the restrictive group, SDC1 remained low (p = 0.027) and NPPA showed a decreasing trend (p = 0.064). No significant intertemporal changes were observed for HPSE and HAS2 (p > 0.05). The observed transcriptomic pattern is biologically compatible with the hypothesis that liberal fluid loading may influence SDC1 dynamics through NPPA-related signaling; however, this interpretation remains hypothesis-generating because the primary randomized between-group comparison was not statistically significant.The association of the liberal approach with postoperative NPPA/SDC1 upregulation suggests a transcriptional-level stress/damage response affecting glycocalyx integrity. These findings suggest that genetic readouts (NPPA-SDC1 and exploratory HPSE/HAS2) may be useful for perioperative monitoring and generate hypotheses for further studies integrating multi-timepoint protein/ectodomain measurements.This study registered at clinicaltrials. gov (NCT04780490).
Spontaneous abortion (SA) is closely associated with immune homeostasis of decidual natural killer (dNK) cells at the maternal-fetal interface, yet how decidual stromal cells (DSCs) educate NK cells remains incompletely understood. Here, we showed that DSC-derived hyaluronic acid (HA) shapes NK cell residency and cytotoxicity in early pregnancy.Reanalysis of single-cell RNA sequencing data and functional assays identified DSCs as the major source of HAS2-dependent HA. We assessed dNK phenotypes and functions in SA versus normal pregnancies, and tested HA -CD44 effects using high-molecular-weight HA (HMW-HA) stimulation, HAS2 knockdown in DSCs, and CD44 blockade, with partial rescue by exogenous HMW-HA. Canonical Wnt activation and FOSL2 upregulation were further evaluated by western blotting to examine downstream signaling.Our findings revealed a reduced proportion of dNK cells, impaired adhesion molecule expression, and increased cytotoxicity in SA compared with normal pregnancies. HMW-HA from DSCs, via engagement of CD44 on NK cells, promoted the phenotypic transition of peripheral NK cells into CD49a+ tissue-resident dNK-like cells, increased adhesion, and shifted cytokine production toward an immune-tolerant profile. HAS2 knockdown in DSCs or CD44 blockade reduced CD49a expression, expanded highly cytotoxic CD44high subset, and disrupted the balance among dNK1/dNK2/dNK3-like subsets, effects that were partially rescued by exogenous HMW-HA. Mechanistically, HA/CD44 signaling activated canonical Wnt pathways and upregulated the dNK1-associated transcription factor FOSL2, driving differentiation toward a low-cytotoxic dNK1-like phenotype.These findings define a DSC-centered HA/HAS2 -CD44 -Wnt -FOSL2 axis that remodels NK cells and supports maternal-fetal immune tolerance, providing potential targets for preventing SA and related pregnancy complications.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Zhu, Wang, Shi, He, Jin, Chen, Chen, Chen, Li, Zhang and Zhu.
Salidroside, a bioactive compound from Rhodiola rosea, shows potential in managing polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), a common endocrine-metabolic disorder. This study explored its therapeutic effects and mechanisms using a dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA)-induced PCOS mouse model and granulosa cells (GCs). Salidroside was found to restore estrous cyclicity, improve ovarian morphology, and rebalance serum hormone levels. Mechanistically, it suppressed ROS-mediated AKT/NF-κB signaling, inhibited NLRP3 inflammasome activation, and reduced proinflammatory cytokines. Network pharmacology and molecular docking identified AKT as a core target, validated by CETSA and DARTS assays. Furthermore, salidroside disrupted NLRP3-driven latent TGF-β1 (LAP-TGFβ1) activation, downregulated TGF-β-SMAD2/3 signaling, and attenuated ovarian fibrosis along with abnormal hyaluronan synthase 2 (HAS2) expression. These results highlight salidroside as a promising natural candidate for alleviating PCOS through coordinated anti-inflammatory and antifibrotic mechanisms.© 2026 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41876977 is a review article
Symmetric cell division entails the equal distribution of cellular components to daughter cells. However, the mechanisms governing organelle segregation remain elusive. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER), comprising perinuclear sheets and peripheral tubules in interphase, serves as a central hub for sensing cellular states and coordinating other organelle dynamics. Here, we show that upon mitotic entry, the ER undergoes reverse redistribution: tubular ER accumulates around the centrosomes, while sheet-like ER relocates to the periphery. Mechanistically, the tubular ER protein Reticulon 4 (RTN4) is phosphorylated by cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1) during early mitosis. Phosphorylation promotes the interaction between RTN4 and Rab11, leading to the dynein-dependent enrichment of RTN4 around centrosomes and consequently driving the tubularization of the pericentrosomal ER. RTN4-mediated mitotic ER reorganization ensures symmetric distribution and inheritance of the ER, further contributing to the symmetric segregation of other organelles and mitotic fidelity. Thus, our study uncovers the mechanism of ER symmetry remodeling during early mitosis and its roles in organelle inheritance and mitotic progression.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
The SRY-box transcription factor 17 (SOX17) plays a critical role in tumorigenesis and tumor progression and reshaping the tumor immune ecosystem in several cancer types, but its role in pancreatic cancer (PC) remains unknown.A total of 168 patients with PC who underwent curative resection were consecutively enrolled, and immunohistochemical (IHC) staining was performed, followed by Kaplan-Meier and Cox proportional hazards regression analyses. Meanwhile, specific markers of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) and PD-L1 expression were detected by IHC staining, and their correlation with SOX17 were evaluated. Finally, single-cell and bulk RNA-seq analyses of public datasets were used to validate the expression profile of SOX17 in PC.The Kaplan-Meier curve showed that high SOX17 expression was correlated with a longer overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS) in patients with PC. Univariate (hazard ratio [HR] = 0.593, P = 0.005 for OS; HR = 0.602, P = 0.012 for DFS) and multivariate (HR = 0.662, P = 0.042 for OS; HR = 0.602, P = 0.036 for DFS) Cox regression analyses demonstrated that high SOX17 expression was an independent favorable prognostic factor. The correlation analysis showed that SOX17 expression was correlated with the expression of CD8+ TILs (P = 0.012) and FAP+ CAFs (P = 0.011). The correlations between SOX17 and CD8+ TILs were validated by multiple algorithms through single-cell and bulk RNA-seq analyses.The present study demonstrates that SOX17 serves as a significant prognostic marker and reflects the tumor immune ecosystem in pancreatic cancer.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Both rare and common variants in the SRY-Box Transcription Factor 17 (SOX17) locus are associated with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). SOX17 dysregulation leads to pulmonary artery endothelial cell (PAEC) dysfunction and the obstructive remodelling that characterises PAH.Impaired SOX17 expression contributes to the pathogenesis of PAH. Restoring the function of SOX17 or its downstream targets using compounds that mimic its transcriptomic signature will rescue PAEC dysfunction and prevent PAH development.We defined thousands of genes with direct SOX17 genomic binding sites and identified important potential binding partners, including ETS-transcription factors such as ERG by ChIP-seq in PAECs. Through the integration of three PAEC RNA-seq datasets involving overexpression and silencing of SOX17, we defined a robust SOX17 transcriptomic signature. In PAH patients, circulating plasma protein levels of 10 SOX17 signature genes were associated with the SOX17 common risk variants. This included EFNB2 and UNC5B; knockdown of these genes altered the viability and apoptosis of PAECs in response to TNFα treatment. The drug-transcriptome database Connectivity Map (CMap) was used to predict novel potential therapeutic compounds to correct the SOX17 transcriptomic signature. Five compounds were selected for in vitro testing and were able to partially reinstate SOX17 target gene expression in PAECs. One compound, BX-912, was selected for in vivo testing as it corrected the levels of multiple target genes, including suppressing Runt-related transcription factor-1 (RUNX1). BX-912 blocked the development of pulmonary hypertension in mice lacking the SOX17 enhancer associated with human disease.We have demonstrated the therapeutic potential of targeting SOX17 in PAH through correction of its gene targets, identifying BX-912 as a lead compound with in vivo efficacy.
Biallelic pathogenic variants of the Reticulon 4 interacting protein 1 (RTN4IP1) gene are responsible for optic atrophy, either isolated or associated with ataxia, mental retardation, and seizures. They are identified as a cause of hereditary optic neuropathy in 7% of patients diagnosed before the age of 20. We have built a dataset for this gene by collating all the clinical cases available in the literature, and unpublished patients diagnosed at our centre, using standard nomenclature to describe both the molecular and phenotypic features. We performed a comprehensive data analysis, based on computational reasoning, to provide an overall picture of the dataset and validate its relevance. This new dataset provides an updated genetic map of the reported pathogenic variants, an ontological annotation of phenotypic abnormalities in a grid format showing clinical heterogeneity, and a full interoperability with the databases of other genetic forms of optic neuropathies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Distant organ metastasis is the leading cause of mortality in breast cancer (BC), particularly in aggressive subtypes such as triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). Metabolic reprogramming is a key driver of TNBC metastasis and is closely linked to remodeling of the mitochondrial proteome. Reticulon 4-interacting protein 1 (RTN4IP1) is a mitochondrial matrix protein that has recently emerged as a regulator of cellular metabolism. However, whether RTN4IP1 promotes BC metastasis through metabolic reprogramming remains unclear. We performed integrative bioinformatics analysis to assess the association between RTN4IP1 expression and BC prognosis. RTN4IP1 was knocked down in TNBC cell lines to evaluate its effects on cell proliferation, invasion, and migration in vitro, as well as on metastatic colonization in an experimental lung metastasis model using tail vein injection in vivo. Metabolomic profiling and targeted metabolic assays, including measurement of the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide/reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+/NADH ratio), were performed to characterize metabolic alterations. The functional interaction between RTN4IP1 and mitochondrial adenylate kinase 4 (AK4) was examined using co-immunoprecipitation and genetic rescue experiments. Elevated RTN4IP1 expression was associated with poorer survival in patients with BC, with the strongest prognostic impact observed in TNBC. RTN4IP1 knockdown suppressed TNBC cell invasion and migration in vitro and significantly suppressed lung metastatic outgrowth in vivo. Mechanistically, RTN4IP1 knockdown depleted the intracellular NAD+/NADH pool, creating a dual metabolic constraint that impaired both oxidative phosphorylation and glycolysis. Notably, AK4 was identified as a direct and essential downstream effector of RTN4IP1. RTN4IP1 physically interacted with AK4, and AK4 knockdown abrogated the prometastatic phenotypes driven by RTN4IP1. This study identifies RTN4IP1 as a critical mitochondrial regulator that promotes TNBC metastasis by coordinating NAD+ metabolism and cellular bioenergetics through an AK4-dependent mechanism. Targeting the RTN4IP1-AK4 axis may represent a promising therapeutic strategy to inhibit metastatic progression in TNBC.Copyright © 2026 The Chinese Medical Association, produced by Wolters Kluwer, Inc. under the CC-BY-NC-ND license.
The SRY-box transcription factor 17 gene (SOX17) has been identified as a causative gene for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), but its underlying mechanisms remain unclear. We conducted experiments using mice carrying the Sox17 variant confirmed in patients with PAH. Mice with the heterozygous Sox17 c.397 C > G (p.Pro133Ala) variant (Sox17+/Pro133Ala mice), identified in severe PAH patients resistant to combination therapy with pulmonary vasodilators, were created and raised in a hypoxic environment. The Fulton index, right ventricular systolic pressure, and medial wall thickness were increased in Sox17+/Pro133Ala mice compared with those in wild-type controls, suggesting the presence of PAH in Sox17+/Pro133Ala mice. RNA sequencing of murine lungs demonstrated that Cyp1b1 expression was elevated in the Sox17+/Pro133Ala mice. CYP1B1 encodes cytochrome P450 1B1, an enzyme that plays a key role in the metabolism of various endogenous and exogenous compounds, particularly in the oxidative metabolism of steroid hormones such as estrogens. CH-223,191, an aryl hydrocarbon receptor antagonist, suppressed Cyp1b1 expression, alleviating the PAH phenotype. Furthermore, the expressions of Bmpr2, Col4a1, and Col4a2, which were downregulated in Sox17+/Pro133Ala mice, were restored. These findings suggest that multiple pathways, including Cyp1b1, Bmpr2, and Col4a1/Col4a2, are interconnected and altered by a single base substitution in Sox17, and that PAH patients with SOX17 variants may develop PAH through these pathways. These results demonstrate that Sox17+/p.Pro133Ala mice exhibited right heart overload and pulmonary vascular remodeling when subjected to hypoxic stress, confirming that this mouse model mimics the human PAH phenotype.
Molecular mimicry is used by pathogens to evade the host immune system and manipulate other host cellular processes. It is often mediated by short motifs in non-homologous proteins, whose detection challenges the sensitivity and specificity of existing bioinformatics tools.We present mimicDetector, a k-mer-based pipeline for identifying protein-level molecular mimicry between pathogens and their hosts. Applied to 17 globally important pathogens, mimicDetector identified a broad and biologically plausible set of mimicry candidates, including helminth proteins mimicking components of the human complement system and a Leishmania infantum mimic of Reticulon-4, a regulator of immune cell recruitment.mimicDetector is freely available at https://github.com/kayleerich/mimicDetector/, implemented in Python and Snakemake, and compatible with Unix-based systems.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) comprises smooth tubules, ribosome-studded sheets, and peripheral sheets that can present as tubular matrices. ER shaping proteins determine ER morphology, however, understanding their role in tubular matrix formation requires reconstructing the dynamic, convoluted ER network. Existing reconstruction methods are sensitive to parameters or require extensive annotation and training for deep learning. We introduce nERdy, an image processing based approach, and nERdy+, a D4-equivariant neural network, for accurate extraction and representation of ER networks and junction dynamics, outperforming previous methods. Comparison of stable and dynamic representations of the extracted ER structure reports on tripartite junction movement and distinguishes tubular matrices from peripheral ER networks. Analysis of live cell confocal and Stimulated emission depletion microscopy (STED) time series data shows that Atlastin and Reticulon 4 promote dynamic tubular matrix formation and enhance junction dynamics, identifying novel roles for these ER shaping proteins in regulating ER structure and dynamics.© 2025. The Author(s).
Circulating proteins are associated with type 2 diabetes (T2D) but causality has often not been investigated. Whether plasma proteins could be suitable targets for T2D prevention remains uncertain.We aimed to identify causal associations between plasma proteins and incident T2D and discover whether proteins may mediate associations between diet and T2D risk.We measured 276 plasma proteins in 2 Swedish prospective cohorts. The discovery cohort consisted of 4103 females, and the replication cohort consisted of 1017 females and 4124 males. During follow-up, 189 females in the discovery cohort and 297 participants in the replication cohort developed T2D. Associations between proteins with incident T2D were estimated using Cox proportional hazards models. Mendelian randomization analyses using cis-protein quantitative trait loci were conducted to assess causal relevance, along with colocalization analyses to examine shared causal variants between proteins and T2D. We further assessed whether proteins could mediate associations between dietary patterns (DPs) derived from principle component analysis and incident T2D.Overall, 112 proteins were associated with incident T2D independent of age, sex and lifestyle factors in 2 cohorts. Genetically raised levels of tyrosine-protein kinase receptor TYRO3, intercellular adhesion molecule 2, sortilin (SORT1), and sialomucin core protein 24 were associated with increased T2D risk, whereas catechol O-methyltransferase, CD2-associated protein, matrix metalloproteinase-12, nectin-2 (NECTIN2), reticulon-4 receptor (RTN4R), and fibroblast growth factor 21 were inversely associated (false discovery rate-adjusted P < 0.05). Strong evidence (posterior hypothesis 4 of colocalization > 0.8) of shared genetic variants of NECTIN2, RTN4R, and SORT1 with T2D was found. Phenome-wide association investigation at the gene level confirmed associations of proteins with T2D traits. We identified a mediating role of proteins with genetic evidence in the association between a healthy DP (i.e., high consumption of vegetables, fruits, nuts, and whole grains) and T2D.We provide novel and robust findings of proteins causally linked to T2D and their associations with habitual diet. These findings may guide nutritional strategies for T2D prevention.Copyright © 2025 American Society for Nutrition. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
A biphasic pattern of reorganization in the somatosensory cortical area, representing the hindlimb or forelimb, has been shown after complete spinal cord injury (cSCI) in rats. The present study hypothesized that extremely low-frequency magnetic fields (ELF-MF) would favourably modulate this biphasic pattern of cortical plasticity by altering brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurite outgrowth inhibitor A (isoform of reticulon- 4) (Nogo-A) levels, leading to functional and electrophysiological recovery in cSCI rats. Adult male Wistar rats underwent cSCI at the T-13 spinal level, followed by ELF-MF exposure for either 5, 12, or 32 days, for analysis of the biphasic pattern. A set of motor and sensorimotor behavioural tests, spinal cord lesion volume, cortical electroencephalography (EEG), expression of neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and inhibitory molecule (Nogo-A) were recorded at each time period. Significant (p≤0.01) recovery was evident in the Basso-Beattie- Bresnahan (BBB) locomotor score, allodynia, grip strength, power spectrum of EEG waves, and lesion volume after 32 days of ELF-MF. Although both SCI and SCI+MF rats exhibited characteristic biphasic patterns in the expression of Nogo-A and BDNF, the SCI+MF group showed a significant increase in BDNF levels along with a decrease in Nogo-A. These findings suggest that ELF-MF enhances functional recovery after cSCI by moderating molecular and electrophysiological markers of cortical plasticity, without disrupting the inherent biphasic expression dynamics.
Growth differentiation factor 2 (GDF2), also known as bone morphogenetic protein-9 (BMP9), is a key member of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) superfamily, playing a pivotal role in pulmonary vascular regulation and remodeling. Dominant variants in GDF2 are known to cause hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia type 5 (HHT5), a condition characterized by telangiectases and arteriovenous malformations (AVMs). More recently, recessive variants in GDF2 have been reported to cause pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) with or without features of HHT5. In this study, we identified a founder variant in GDF2 that potentially causes semidominant PAH in a cohort of 13 patients ranging in age from pediatric to middle-aged adults. Careful clinical evaluation revealed a wide range of ages of onset and disease severity. However, lack of HHT manifestations was a consistent clinical feature. Our results lend further support to GDF2 as a bona fide disease gene in the context of non-syndromic PAH and demonstrate the power of founder variants to reveal the full spectrum of disease variability.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
To evaluate the in vivo efficacy of bone morphogenetic protein 9 (BMP9) relative to bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP2) in a beagle peri-implant critical-size defect model.Peri-implant defects were created in beagle dogs and treated with either a collagen sponge (CS) or deproteinized bovine bone mineral with collagen (OCS-B Xenomatrix collagen [OCS-BC]), with or without BMP2 or BMP9. After 8 weeks, bone regeneration and osseointegration were evaluated using radiographic, histological, and biomechanical analyses.Radiographic analysis demonstrated that BMP treatment significantly increased peri-implant mineralization, with bone mineral density increasing from 0.597±0.151 (control) to 0.896±0.173 in the CS+BMP9 group (P<0.0001). Histological and histomorphometric analyses corroborated these findings, showing greater new bone formation and higher bone-to-implant contact (BIC) (7.943±7.048 vs. 68.90±20.27 in the CS+BMP9 group; P<0.05) without overt inflammatory reactions. Region-of-interest (ROI)-based micro-computed tomography analysis (200 μm) and resonance frequency analysis further supported improved osseointegration and stability, with osseointegration increasing from 20.32±6.976 to 70.37±0.785 in the CS+BMP9 group (P<0.0001) and the implant stability quotient (ISQ) peaking at 70.92±3.523 in the OCS-BC+BMP9 group (P<0.0001). Two-way analysis of variance indicated scaffold-dependent magnitudes for bulk endpoints, whereas interaction terms were not significant for BIC, ROI-based osseointegration, or ISQ, supporting preservation of BMP9-associated benefits across scaffold types for these outcomes.BMP9 produced overall improvements comparable to BMP2 and may provide more reproducible osseointegration-related outcomes across scaffold types.Copyright © 2026. Korean Academy of Periodontology.
The Indonesian Local Ettawah Goat (ILEG) exhibits substantial genetic variation, suggesting its potential for high productivity and promote sustainable practices in farm animal breeding. This study aimed to investigate the molecular characteristics of prolific ILEG by identifying potential candidate genes through polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis of the bone morphogenetic protein receptor type 1B (BMPR1B) gene with two variants: alleles G and A. The research involved PCR amplification and sequencing of the BMPR1B A allele, followed by a combined PCR approach integrating both A and G alleles for genotyping. Blood samples were collected from 73 does with documented prolificacy history and 358 does without prolificacy histories, sourced from seven village breeding operations in East Java. PCR amplification yielded fragments of 556-1181 base pairs in all samples. Haplotype analysis revealed 15 unique haplotypes with a diversity of 0.94 and a mutation frequency of 27.15%. Integration of the BMPR1B alleles G and A revealed polymorphic prolific traits. Polymorphism analysis of 385 ILEGs demonstrated allele frequencies of 0.55 for allele A and 0.45 for the allele G. Average fecundity rates associated with the BMPR1B polymorphism were 1.49 offspring for the homozygous AA, 1.60 for the heterozygous GA, and 1.89 for the homozygous GG. While overall differences among genetic groups were approached statistically significantly (Kruskal-Wallis, p = 0.056), pairwise comparison (Mann-Whitney test) revealed that homozygous GG was significantly associated with higher prolificacy compare to the heterozygous GA (p = 0.029) and homozygous AA (p = 0.040). Similar results were also obtained from data without documented history. These findings suggest that the GG polymorphism of BMPR1B may increase prolificacy in ILEG. Furthermore, the higher frequency of allele G highlights the importance of considering prolificacy traits in breeding selection strategies to enhance sustainable genetic improvement and increase litter size in ILEG. It is recommended to apply dual-primer specific amplification and fragment size differentiation as key molecular approaches for polymorphism of the BMPR1B gene and prolificacy, since these methods can highlight genetic variation and provide valuable markers for breeding programs of the Indonesian Local Etawah Goat.
Some, but not all, patients with heart failure (HF) develop pulmonary vascular disease (PVD), which contributes to poor prognosis. Mechanisms leading to PVD in HF are poorly understood. We aimed to analyze transpulmonary gradients of proteins consumed or elaborated across the lungs to identify mediators of PVD by unbiased proteomics.Overall, 21 controls and 160 patients with HF with reduced ejection fraction underwent pulmonary artery catheterization with blood sampling from postcapillary (wedged balloon) and precapillary (unwedged) position to obtain transpulmonary gradients. The samples from controls and HF from the highest (Q4, n=40) and lowest quartile (Q1, n=40) of pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) were analyzed using the proteomic proximity extension assay (Olink) of 275 proteins. Venous blood concentrations or transpulmonary gradients were analyzed to identify biomarkers or potential mediators of PVD.Comparison of Q1 and Q4 of PVR identified PSP-D (pulmonary surfactant-associated protein D) as a marker of PVD. Examination of gradients across the lungs in high PVR HF revealed significant uptake of 18 proteins, mostly associated with inflammation (chemokines, oncostatin-M, MMP9 [matrix metalloproteinase 9]) or with TGF (transforming growth factor)/activin pathway (GDF2 [growth differentiation factor 2]/BMP9 [bone morphogenic protein 9]), and release of 5 proteins, notably IL (interleukin) 6 and IL33. In contrast, these protein gradients were negligible in controls and low PVR patients with HF. Active pulmonary release of IL6 contributed to systemic elevation of IL6 and correlated with right ventricular function.The lungs of patients with HF with high PVR display abnormal uptake and release of proinflammatory cytokines from IL6/gp130 family (IL6, IL33, oncostatin-M), along with increased transpulmonary uptake of GDF2/BMP9. The study shows that proteins orchestrating inflammation or pulmonary vessel remodeling in group 1 pulmonary hypertension, are also operating in patients with PVD due to HF.URL: https://www.clinicaltrials.gov; Unique identifier: NCT06331208.
Background/Objectives: Pathogenic variants in the growth differentiation factor 2 (GDF2) gene have been linked to a hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT)-like syndrome, yet their clinical significance remains under investigation. This study reports seven pediatric patients with GDF2 variants from a single center. Methods: We identified children with GDF2 pathogenic variants and variants of uncertain significance (VUS) from the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Comprehensive HHT Program and cross-referenced the list with a full-text query by GDF2 gene name on >53,000,000 visits to ensure complete ascertainment. Medical records were reviewed retrospectively, and variables of interest were abstracted. Results: The median age at genetic testing was 12 years (range 1.75-16). Reasons for genetic testing included telangiectasias, pulmonary hypertension, familial testing, respiratory symptoms, seizures, developmental disabilities, and lung arteriovenous malformations (AVMs). Four patients had missense VUS, including two novel VUS (c.34C>G; p.Leu12Val, c.41C>T; p.Ser14Phe), while three had pathogenic deletions. All patients experienced epistaxis, starting at a median age of 6 years (range 2-12). Three had telangiectasias. One patient had both a GDF2 VUS and a de novo partial endoglin (ENG) gene deletion. While this patient's symptoms of HHT are likely related to her ENG variant, synergy cannot be excluded, and two first-degree family members with clinically significant epistaxis also have the same GDF2 VUS. Notably, two patients had visceral AVMs-one with a lung AVM and another with a vein of Galen malformation. Conclusions: Interpretation of GDF2 VUS and their relationship to clinical symptoms is challenging given the rarity of these genetic variants and the inadequate diagnostic utility of the current clinical criteria for HHT in the pediatric population. Further research with larger cohorts is necessary to improve the genotype-phenotype correlation in GDF2-related HHT. Carefully collected clinical information with longitudinal follow-up may also assist in refining classification of GDF2 VUS as benign or pathogenic in the future.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a prevalent metabolic disorder with an increased risk for cardiovascular disease (CVD) that is enhanced by obesity. This study sought to determine whether a panel of cardiovascular risk proteins (CVRPs) would be dysregulated in overweight/obese PCOS patients, highlighting potential biomarkers for CVD in PCOS.In this exploratory cross-sectional study, plasma levels of 54 CVRPs were analyzed in women with PCOS (n = 147) and controls (n = 97). CVRPs were measured using the SOMAscan proteomic platform (version 3.1), with significant proteins identified through linear models, regression analysis, and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. Analysis on BMI-matched subsets of the cohort were undertaken. Functional enrichment and protein-protein interaction analyses elucidated the pathways involved.Eleven CVRPs were dysregulated in PCOS (whole set, without matching for body mass index (BMI) or insulin resistance (IR)): leptin, Interleukin-1 receptor antagonist protein (IL-1Ra), polymeric immunoglobulin receptor (PIGR), interleukin-18 receptor (IL-18Ra), C-C motif chemokine 3 (MIP-1a), and angiopoietin-1 (ANGPT1) were upregulated whilst advanced glycosylation end product-specific receptor, soluble (sRAGE), bone morphogenetic protein 6 (BMP6); growth/differentiation factor 2 (GDF2), superoxide dismutase [Mn] mitochondrial (MnSOD), and SLAM family member 5 (SLAF5) were downregulated versus the controls. In BMI-matched (overweight/obese, BMI ≥ 26 kg/m2) subset analysis, six CVRPs were common to the whole set: ANGPT1 and IL-1Ra were upregulated; and sRAGE, BMP6, GDF2, and Mn-SOD were downregulated. In addition, lymphotactin (XCL1) was upregulated and placenta growth factor (PIGF), alpha-L-iduronidase (IDUA), angiopoietin-1 receptor, and soluble (sTie-2) and macrophage metalloelastase (MMP12) were downregulated. A subset analysis of BMI-matched plus insulin resistance (IR)-matched women revealed only upregulation of tissue factor (TF) and renin in PCOS, potentially serving as biomarkers for cardiovascular risk in overweight/obese women with PCOS.A combination of upregulated obesity-related CVRPs (ANGPT1/IL/1Ra/XCL1) and downregulated cardioprotective proteins (sRAGE/BMP6/Mn-SOD/GDF2) in overweight/obese PCOS women may contribute to the increased risk for CVD. TF and renin upregulation observed in the BMI- and IR-matched limited sample PCOS subgroup indicates their potential risk of CVD.
Litter size in pigs is affected by factors such as ovulation number, embryonic survival, and uterine environment conditions. Endometrial epithelial and stromal cells represent the first site of contact between the embryo and sows; therefore, dynamic changes in the growth and development of these cells are among the major factors affecting the intrauterine environment and implantation. Bone morphogenetic protein receptor type-1B (BMPR1B) is a receptor of the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) family that has been identified as a candidate gene for reproductive traits in pigs. In our previous study, we used whole-genome resequencing to identify BMPR1B as a candidate gene affecting sow litter size in Taihu pigs and revealed the transcriptional regulation of BMPR1B in the endometrium. However, the functional role of BMPR1B in the growth and development of the endometrium in pigs has not been comprehensively elucidated. In this study, we isolated, characterized, and immortalized Meishan pig endometrial cells, and systematically explored the biological function of BMPR1B using a cell model. BMPR1B promoted cell proliferation and migration of endometrial stromal cells but inhibited that of endometrial epithelial cells. Transcriptome sequencing revealed potential pathways through which BMPR1B influences the growth and development of endometrial cells, including vascular system development, gland morphology, cell migration and adhesion, and reproductive system development. Moreover, the outstanding uterine function of Meishan pigs from endometrial genomic aspects was performed elucidated through CUT&Tag experiments. Most biological processes, including reproductive system development, embryonic morphogenesis, and angiogenesis, were enriched by genes that were differentially bound by enhancer markers. These findings provide a valuable resource for future research on the mechanisms underlying the excellent uterine function in Meishan pigs.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The aim of this study was to investigate changes in the expression of members of the matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) family in response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation and to investigate the regulatory effects of BMP9 on MMPs.The extracted human stem cells from the apical papilla (hSCAPs) were identified by flow cytometry, Alizarin Red staining, Oil Red O staining, and alkaline phosphatase staining. The appropriate LPS concentration for inducing inflammation in hSCAPs was determined using real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) and Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assays. MMP expression in LPS-stimulated hSCAPs was evaluated by RT-qPCR. BMP9 was overexpressed in hSCAPs via recombinant adenovirus, and its effects on MMP regulation were assessed using RT-qPCR, Western blotting, and ELISA. All experiments were conducted in vitro. Data were analyzed by one-way ANOVA followed by Tukey's post-hoc comparison, with p < 0.05 considered significant.The results showed that on the 3rd and 5th day after LPS stimulation, the expression of MMP-1, MMP-2, MMP-3, MMP-8, MMP-9, MMP-10, MMP-12, and MMP-13 in hSCAPs was significantly upregulated. On the 7th day after LPS induction, the expression of MMP-3, MMP-8, MMP-9 and MMP-13 in hSCAPs was significantly increased. When BMP9 was overexpressed in hSCAPs, the elevated MMPs were inhibited to varying degrees.In the LPS-induced inflammatory environment, certain MMPs are elevated in hSCAP, with MMP-13 being the most significant. Overexpression of BMP9 can significantly inhibit elevated MMPs, suggesting that BMP9 may provide new insights and targets for the treatment of periapical periodontitis.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Integrin subunit α5 (ITGA5) has been recognized as a potential diagnostic biomarker across multiple cancer types. ITGA5 is upregulated in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC), with poor prognosis and high mortality, accounts for two-thirds of HNSCC cases. However, the biological functions and underlying mechanisms of ITGA5 in OSCC progression remain unclear. In the present study, we analyzed the expression, prognostic significance, function, and co-expression genes of ITGA5 in HNSCC using a series of public biological information databases, detected the role of ITGA5 in OSCC progression, and discussed the underlying mechanisms. The results indicate that both the mRNA and protein level of ITGA5 were upregulated and related to the prognosis of HNSCC. Knockdown of ITGA5 inhibited cell proliferation, invasion, migration, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). However, overexpression of snail family transcriptional repressor 2 (SNAI2) reversed the function of ITGA5 in regulating OSCC cell proliferation, invasion, migration, and EMT. In conclusion, our study suggests that ITGA5 is upregulated in HNSCC and associated with poor prognosis; functional studies indicate ITGA5 promotes OSCC proliferation and metastasis via SNAI2, indicating that ITGA5 may be a potential therapeutic target for OSCC.Copyright © 2026 Li, Kong, Zhou, Gu, Sun, Ding, Zou, Zhang and Meng.
Mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 7 (MAP3K7), also known as transforming growth factor-β-activated kinase 1 (TAK1), is a widely expressed kinase that plays a crucial role in various cellular processes variants in the MAP3K7 gene have been implicated in two distinct genetic disorders: frontometaphyseal dysplasia Type 2 (FMD2) and cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome (CSCF). To elucidate the consequences of the MAP3K7 variant, we investigated a Chinese family with CSCF harboring a novel heterozygous MAP3K7 variant and examined the genotype-phenotype correlation. Functional validation was performed using clinical evaluations, whole-exome sequencing (WES), and biochemical assays, including western blotting to assess TAK1 phosphorylation levels and downstream signaling pathways. Clinical data and genomic DNA were collected from the proband and family members. WES identified a novel heterozygous variant in MAP3K7 (NM_145331.3: c.149 T > C, p.Val50Ala) inherited from the affected mother. Sequence conservation analysis revealed that the Val50 residue is highly conserved among vertebrates and is critical for ATP binding. Protein 3D modeling predicted that the Val50Ala variant disrupts the kinase domain structure, potentially impairing TAK1 function. In vitro overexpression experiments in human embryonic kidney 293T (HEK293T) cells demonstrated that the Val50Ala variant significantly reduced TAK1 phosphorylation levels. Furthermore, this variant differentially affected downstream signaling molecules (p38, p65, and JNK) compared with variants causing FMD2. Notably, stimulation with transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) partially restored the altered phosphorylation patterns, suggesting a potential compensatory mechanism. Our study provides novel insights into the molecular pathogenesis of MAP3K7 variants associated with CSCF and FMD2. We demonstrate that the p.Val50Ala variant impairs TAK1 kinase activity and differentially affects downstream signaling pathways. These findings highlight the distinct molecular fingerprints of MAP3K7 variants causing CSCF versus FMD2 and underscore the importance of considering MAP3K7 variants in the differential diagnosis of syndromic congenital cardiac defects, recurrent infections, and global developmental delays. Our results also suggest that TGF-β signaling may offer a potential therapeutic target for modulating the effects of MAP3K7 variants.Copyright © 2026 Ting Zhu et al. Human Mutation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
To explore the relationship between the expression levels of DNA damage binding protein 1 and cullin 4-related factor 4 (DCAF4) complex, which degrades the tumor suppressor menin 1 (MEN1)-human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) axis protein, and the clinicopathological characteristics and prognosis of patients with colon adenocarcinoma.Ninety-four patients with colon adenocarcinoma were included. The expression of DCAF4, MEN1, and hTERT in cancer tissues and adjacent tissues was detected by immunohistochemistry. The expression levels of DCAF4, MEN1, and hTERT in patients with different pathological grades and T stages were compared. Spearman rank correlation was used for correlation analysis, and survival analysis was conducted to investigate the impact of DCAF4, MEN1, and hTERT expression levels on the overall survival of patients with colon adenocarcinoma.The expression levels of DCAF4 and MEN1 proteins in cancer tissues of colon adenocarcinoma patients (10.83 ± 2.89; 9.71 ± 3.57) were higher than those in adjacent tissues (2.39 ± 1.57; 4.92 ± 2.71, P < 0.001). The expression level of DCAF4 in patients with grade Ⅱ colon adenocarcinoma (14.16 ± 4.67) was lower than in patients with grade Ⅲ (20.79 ± 5.06, P < 0.01), while the expression of MEN1 (10.74 ± 3.06) was higher than in patients with grade Ⅲ (8.07 ± 2.88, P < 0.001), while there was no statistically significant difference in the protein expression scores of MEN1 and hTERT between the two groups. Compared with colon adenocarcinoma patients carrying the wild-type BRAF gene (5.47 ± 1.81), those with the mutant-type BRAF gene had a higher expression score of DCAF4 protein (9.30 ± 0.42, P < 0.001). The expression of MEN1 was correlated with the positive rate of PD1 (Spearman ρ = 0.219, P = 0.034). Compared with patients in stage T2 (3.93 ± 2.47), patients in stage T3 had a higher expression score of hTERT protein (6.25 ± 3.04, P < 0.05). Survival analysis showed that the expressions of MEN1, hTERT, and DCAF4 were not significantly associated with overall survival.High expression of DCAF4 and hTERT, as well as low expression of MEN1, is associated with unfavorable clinical and pathological features but has no significant relationship with prognosis.© 2026《四川大学学报（医学版）》编辑部 Copyright © 2026 Editorial Office of Journal of Sichuan University (Medical Sciences).
Evidence has shown that high-intensity laser therapy (HILT) may be beneficial for recovery after peripheral nerve injury (PNI). However, the optimized doses and effective mechanisms remain unclear. The present study sought to explore the effects of various doses of HILT on the recovery of nerve function in sciatic nerve injury (SNI) rats. The potential mechanism of action of HILT alleviating PNI was also assessed. Behavioral testing, polymerase chain reaction, immunoblotting, and immunofluorescence analyses were applied to explore whether HILT promotes the repair of injured nerves and its underlying mechanisms. SNI induces mechanical nociceptive hypersensitivity, disrupts sciatic nerve structure and function, causes gastrocnemius muscle atrophy, and increases oxidative stress and expression levels of inflammatory factors. HILT effectively ameliorated these SNI-induced alterations. Notably, the Bone Morphogenetic Protein 4 (BMP4)-SMAD Family Member 9 (Smad9) pathway mediates the therapeutic effects of HILT on SNI repair. These findings show for the first time that HILT stimulates the BMP4-Smad9 signaling pathway by increasing Smad9 expression to regulate inflammation and oxidative stress, which ultimately ameliorates SNI.© 2026 Author(s).
During the development of sepsis, aberrant dendritic cell (DC) pyroptosis results in a significant decrease in the numbers of DCs and immune dysfunction. However, the molecular mechanisms regulating DC pyroptosis in sepsis remain unclear. Emerging evidence indicates that RETREG1/FAM134B (reticulophagy regulator 1) is involved in the regulation of programmed cell death to maintain cell viability. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the potential role and regulatory pathways of RETREG1 in DC death during sepsis. We found that the upregulation of RETREG1 upon septic challenge was intimately associated with the maintenance of immune function. Depletion of RETREG1 in DC significantly aggravated DC pyroptosis and sepsis-induced immune dysfunction by activating the CASP3 (caspase 3)-GSDME (gasdermin E) signaling pathway. Mechanistically, defective RETREG1 expression inhibited autophagic degradation of the endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC), resulting in abnormal activation of STING1 (stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1), which further induced CASP3-GSDME-dependent pyroptosis. Genetic downregulation of Tmed9 prevented the activation of STING1 and GSDME-mediated pyroptosis by disturbing ERGIC structure. These results suggest a novel RETREG1-based protective mechanism against DC-mediated immune impairment during sepsis. Genetic or pharmacological modulation of RETREG1 May represent a promising therapeutic strategy for treating sepsis-induced immune suppression.Abbreviations: 7-AAD: 7-aminoactinomycin D; ANXA5/annexin V: annexin A5; ARF1: ARF GTPase 1; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; CALCOCO1: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 1; CASP1: caspase 1; cC3: cleaved CASP3; CCDC50: coiled-coil domain containing 50; CD274/PD-L1: CD274 molecule; CFSE: carboxyfluorescein diacetate succinimidyl ester; CGAS: cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; CLP: cecal ligation and puncture; DC: dendritic cell; DEGs: differentially expressed genes; DEPs: differently expressed proteins; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ERGIC: endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediate compartment; GO: Gene Ontology; GOLGA2/GM130: golgin A2; GSDMD: gasdermin D; GSDME: gasdermin E; GSEA: Gene set enrichment analysis; IFN-I: type I interferon; IKK: IκB kinase; IL2: interleukin 2; IRF3: interferon regulatory factor 3; ITGAX/Cd11c: integrin subunit alpha X; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; LMAN1/ERGIC53: lectin, mannose binding 1; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MAP3K7/TAK1: mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 7; NFKB/NFκB: nuclear factor kappa B; NLRP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; PBMCs: peripheral blood mononuclear cells; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PCD: programmed cell death; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; PRRs: pattern recognition receptors; PYCARD/ASC: PYD and CARD domain containing; RETREG1/FAM134B: reticulophagy regulator 1; SAMHD1: SAM and HD domain containing deoxynucleoside triphosphate triphosphohydrolase 1; SEC62: SEC62 preprotein translocation factor; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STEEP1: STING1 ER exit protein 1; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; TGFB/TGFβ: transforming growth factor beta; TMED9: transmembrane p24 trafficking protein 9; TLR4: toll like receptor 4; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; Tregs: regulatory T cells; VAP: VAMP associated protein.
Protocatechuic acid (PCA), a natural compound found in a variety of Chinese herbal medicines and plant foods, has been documented to inhibit atherosclerosis partially by reducing inflammation burden in arterial endothelial cells. Interestingly, in vitro studies showed that PCA at physiologically reachable concentrations does not affect inflammation burden in TNF-α-stimulated aortic endothelial cells, whereas it increases the content of exosomal miR-10b secreted by macrophages that have engulfed apoptotic cells (efferocytic macrophages).This study was aimed at investigating whether the in vivo anti-inflammatory effect of PCA in arterial endothelial cells was due to the uptake of efferocytic macrophage exosomal miR-10b.A transwell co-culture system of aortic endothelial cells with efferocytic macrophages was used to evaluate the effect of PCA on NF-κB-mediated inflammation in aortic endothelial cells. An inhibitor of exosome secretion, GW4869, was applied to confirm the role of exosomes played in the anti-inflammatory effect of PCA. The aortic endothelial cells were administrated with exosomes isolated from PCA-treated efferocytic macrophages or miR-10b mimic or antagomir to ascertain the role of miR-10b in downregulating inflammation effect of PCA. Bioinformatics analyses, loss-of- and gain-of-function assays and luciferase reporter gene assays were performed to identify targeting relationship between miR-10b and mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 7 (MAP3K7)/β-transducin repeat-containing protein (β-TrCP). Besides, Apoe-/- mice with advanced atherosclerotic plaques were subjected to intragastric administration of PCA and intraperitoneal injection of GW4869. The miR-10b/MAP3K7/β-TrCP/NF-κB signaling pathways and inflammation indicators were determined in vivo.PCA at physiologically reachable concentrations inhibited NF-κB-mediated inflammation in TNF-α-stimulated aortic endothelial cells co-cultured with efferocytic macrophages, in which treatment of GW4869 reversed this effect. Exosomes isolated from PCA-treated efferocytic macrophages inhibited inflammation and increased miR-10b levels in aortic endothelial cells. Mechanistically, exosomal miR-10b post-transcriptionally repressed MAP3K7 and β-TrCP, both of which promote NF-κB activation. Knockdown of Map3k7 and Btrc with siRNA in aortic endothelial cells abolished the inhibitory effects of exosomes isolated from PCA-treated efferocytic macrophages on NF-κB-mediated inflammation. Consistently, oral administration of PCA increased miR-10b level and inhibited Map3k7 and Btrc mRNA expression as well as inflammation in aortic endothelial cells in Apoe-/- mice, all of which were abrogated by GW4869 co-treatment.Our current findings suggest that PCA could transfer exosomal miR-10b from efferocytic macrophages to endothelial cells and thus inhibit NF-κB-mediated inflammation in arterial endothelial cells through repressing MAP3K7 and β-TrCP, two new targets of miR-10b.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
BACKGROUND: Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common, aggressive and poor prognosis malignant brain tumor in adults, that is still orphan of effective medical treatments. The formyl peptide receptor 2 (FPR2), a G protein– coupled receptor implicated in inflammation and cancer biology, has emerged as a potential therapeutic target, yet its role in GBM remains poorly defined. METHODS: We investigated the effects of MR-39, a novel selective FPR2 agonist, in three human GBM cell lines (U87MG, U138-MG, U251-MG). Antiproliferative effects were assessed via CCK-8 assays, cell counts, Ki67 immunostaining, and cell cycle analysis. The specificity of MR-39 was tested using the FPR2 antagonist WRW4 and siRNA-mediated knockdown. Whole-transcriptome analysis, RT-qPCR, Western Blot, woundhealing assays, in vitro tube formation assay, and hypoxia models were used to explore its impact on invasion, angiogenesis, and hypoxia-driven pathways. RESULTS: MR-39 significantly reduced proliferation in all GBM cell lines and induced a non-canonical, p53dependent S-phase arrest associated with the inhibition of both MAPK/ERK and AKT pathways. These effects were reversed by the FPR2 antagonist WRW4 or by FPR2 silencing. Transcriptomic and functional assays revealed downregulation of epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) drivers, including Neuralcadherin (N-cadherin), Snail Family Transcriptional Repressor 2 (Slug), Snail Family Transcriptional Repressor 1 (Snail), matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP2), fibronectin 1 (FN1), and increased Epithelialcadherin (E-cadherin) expression, resulting in impaired migration. MR-39 displays anti-angiogenic and anti-hypoxia related activities, indeed it is able to inhibit Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) and Vascular Endothelial-cadherin (VE-cadherin) expression, to disrupt endothelial network formation, and to attenuate Hypoxia Inducible Factor 1 Subunit Alpha (HIF-1α) stabilization under hypoxic conditions. Notably, MR-39 exhibited significant anti-inflammatory effects, as evidenced by the downregulation of pro-inflammatory genes, including Cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2), Chemokine (C-X-C Motif) Ligand 7. (CXCL-7), Nuclear Factor Kappa B Subunit 1 (NFKB1), Interleukin 1 Beta (IL-1β), and Interleukin 6 (IL6), and the inhibition of NF-κB protein levels. CONCLUSION: This study identifies MR-39 as a potent modulator of FPR2, and identifies its mechanisms of action in GBM, such as anti-tumor activity, including S-phase arrest, inhibition of EMT, and suppression of both angiogenesis and hypoxic adaptation. By directing FPR2 signaling toward an anti-tumor profile, MR-39 represents a promising therapeutic candidate for GBM.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41823810 is a review article
UFMylation plays an essential role in regulating intracellular physiological and pathological processes. Accumulating evidence has demonstrated that dysregulation of UFMylation is closely associated with the progression of various diseases, including cancers and developmental disorders. However, efficient and specific methods for detecting UFMylated substrate proteins remain challenging. In this study, we generated the UFM1-specific protease 1/2 knockout (UFSP1KO/UFSP2KO) human embryonic kidney 293T cell line and validated it as the most suitable cellular model for the screening, identification, and confirmation of UFMylated substrate proteins. Furthermore, exogenous expression of the E3 ligase components, UFM1-specific ligase 1 (UFL1) and DDRGK domain-containing protein 1 (DDRGK1), significantly enhanced protein UFMylation levels, enabling the large-scale enrichment of UFMylated substrates. Collectively, we have established a more efficient, specific, and reliable method for UFMylation substrate research, facilitating in-depth investigation into its biological functions and regulatory mechanisms.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
UFMylation, a post-translational modification involving the covalent conjugation of ubiquitin-fold modifier 1 (UFM1) to target proteins, has been implicated in a wide spectrum of human diseases. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms are poorly understood. Herein, we demonstrate that UFM1-specific ligase 1 (UFL1), the sole ligase for UFMylation, is indispensable for ciliary homeostasis. Genetic ablation of UFL1 in mice results in severe defects in ciliary structure and function in multiple tissues. Mechanistic investigation reveals that intraflagellar transport 88 (IFT88), a protein essential for ciliary assembly and maintenance, undergoes UFMylation at lysine 572. The UFMylation antagonizes IFT88 ubiquitination by Praja ring finger ubiquitin ligase 2 (PJA2), thereby preventing its proteasomal degradation. The lysine 572-to-arginine mutant of IFT88 exhibits increased stability and efficacy in rescuing ciliary defects induced by UFL1 depletion. Our findings identify a critical role for IFT88 UFMylation in ciliary homeostasis and offer novel insights into human ciliopathies.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to ADMC Associazione Differenziamento e Morte Cellulare.
Identification of novel targets is critical for the effective management of HCC. UFMylation, a novel ubiquitin-like modification, plays an important role in various biological processes and disease progression. We found that WW domain binding protein 11 (WBP11) is enriched and predicts poor prognosis in HCC. Depletion of WBP11 inhibits the malignancy of HCC cells in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, the N-terminal of WBP11 interacts with the RNA recognition motif (RRM) domain of Non-POU-domain-containing octamer-binding protein (NONO) and enhances glycolysis in HCC cells. WBP11 maintains protein stability of NONO by competitively inhibiting UFM1-specific ligase 1 (UFL1)-induced UFMylation of NONO at Lys198. Enforced-NONO expression restores the suppression of growth and metastasis caused by WBP11 depletion or UFL1 overexpression. Overall, our study identifies a key role of the WBP11-NONO axis in HCC progression and reveals the importance of UFMylation in cancer, highlighting potential anticancer strategies by targeting the WBP11-regulated new types of posttranslational modifications.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40341950 is a review article
Long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) plays a critical role in cancer cell proliferation, invasion, metastasis, and chemoresistance. The current study introduces novel lncRNAs in colorectal cancer (CRC) through bioinformatics analysis. GSE134834 CRC-related microarray of Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) was analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in CRC samples against normal samples. Analysis revealed 6763 DEGs (p < 0.05 and |log fold change (FC)| ≥ 0.5) that include differentially expressed mRNA (DEmRNA) and differentially expressed long noncoding RNA (DElncRNA). Novel lncRNAs were identified, and to better understand the biological function of the identified lncRNAs, gene modules were constructed using weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA), and finally, two modules for lncRNAs were obtained. The coexpression modules with these lncRNAs were subjected to enrichment analysis in FunRich software to predict their functions through their coexpressed genes. Gene ontology results of modules related to novel lncRNA revealed they significantly enriched the cellular pathways regulation in cancer. The protein-protein interaction (PPI) network of novel lncRNAs-related modules was constructed using Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes (STRING) and visualized using the Cytoscape software. Hub genes were screened from the PPI network by the CytoHubba plug-in of Cytoscape. The hub genes were MRTO4, CDK1, CDC20, RPF2, NOP58, NIFK, GTPBP4, BUB1, BUB1B, and BOP1 for the lightpink4 module and BYSL, RPS23 (ribosomal protein S23), RSL1D1 (ribosomal L1 domain containing 1), NAT10, NOP14, GNL2, MRPS12, NOL6 (nucleolar protein 6), IMP4, and RRP12 (ribosomal RNA processing 12 homolog) for the pink module. The expression levels of the top DEmRNA and module hub genes in CRC were validated using the Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis (GEPIA) database. Generally, our findings offer crucial insight into the hub genes and novel lncRNAs in the development of CRC by bioinformatics analysis, information that may prove useful in the identification of new biomarkers and treatment targets in CRC; however, more experimental investigation is required to validate the findings of the present study.Copyright © 2025 Razieh Heidari et al. BioMed Research International published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The synthesis of membrane and secreted proteins is safeguarded by an endoplasmic reticulum-associated ribosome quality control (ER-RQC) that promotes the disposal of defective translation products by the proteasome or via a lysosome-dependent pathway involving the degradation of portions of the ER by macroautophagy (reticulophagy). The UFMylation of RPL26 on ER-stalled ribosomes is essential for activating the ER-RQC and reticulophagy. Here, we report that the viral deubiquitinase (vDUB) encoded in the N-terminal domain of the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) large tegument protein BPLF1 hinders the UFMylation of RPL26 on ribosomes that stall at the ER, promotes the stabilization of ER-RQC substrates, and inhibits reticulophagy. The vDUB did not act as a de-UFMylase or interfere with the UFMylation of the ER membrane protein CYB5R3 by the UFL1 ligase. Instead, it copurified with ribosomes in sucrose gradients and abrogated a ZNF598- and LTN1-independent ubiquitination event required for RPL26 UFMylation. Physiological levels of BPLF1 impaired the UFMylation of RPL26 in productively EBV-infected cells, pointing to an important role of the enzyme in regulating the translation quality control that allows the efficient synthesis of viral proteins and the production of infectious virus.Abbreviation: BPLF1, BamH1 P fragment left open readingframe-1; CDK5RAP3, CDK5regulatory subunit associated protein 3; ChFP, mCherry fluorescent protein; DDRGK1, DDRGKdomain containing 1; EBV, Epstein-Barr virus; eGFP, enhancedGFP; ER-RQC, endoplasmicreticulum-associated ribosome quality control; LCL, EBV-carryinglymphoblastoid cell line; GFP, green fluorescent protein; RQC, ribosome quality control; SRP, signal recognition particle; UFM1, ubiquitin fold modifier 1; UFL1, UFM1 specific ligase 1.
Temozolomide (TMZ) is used in the treatment of glioblastoma (GBM). However, the primary obstacle remains the emergence of TMZ chemotherapy resistance. Non-POU domain-containing octamer-binding protein (NONO) and splicing factor proline/glutamine rich (SFPQ) are multifunctional nuclear proteins involved in genome stability and gene regulation. However, the specific role of NONO and SFPQ in TMZ resistance of GBM remains to be explored.RNA-binding protein immunoprecipitation-microarray and RNA microarray of TMZ-resistant and parental cells were performed for the gain of HSD52. The effects of HSD52 on TMZ resistance were investigated through in vitro assays, intracranial xenograft, and GBM organoid models. The underlying mechanisms were explored by DNA methylation chip, RNA immunoprecipitation, RNA pull-down assays, among others. GBM clinical samples were rolled in to investigate the clinical significance of HSD52.We identified a novel noncoding RNA, HSD52, that was highly expressed in TMZ-resistant GBM and facilitated the interaction between NONO and SFPQ. H3 ubiquitination attenuation and reduced DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) recruitment increased HSD52 transcription via DNA hypo-methylation. HSD52 formed an RNA duplex with UFM1 specific ligase 1 (UFL1) mRNA, thereby promoting NONO/SFPQ complex binding to UFL1 mRNA and enhancing its stability, and then contributed to TMZ resistance through activating the ataxia telangiectasia mutated signaling pathway. In vivo xenograft and GBM organoid models showed significant repression in tumor growth after HSD52 knockout with TMZ treatment. In GBM clinical samples, HSD52 was responsible for the malignant progression and TMZ resistance.Our results revealed that HSD52 could serve as a promising therapeutic target to overcome TMZ resistance, improving the clinical efficacy of TMZ chemotherapy in GBM.© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Neuro-Oncology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Ufmylation is implicated in multiple cellular processes, but little is known about its functions and regulation in protein trafficking. Here, we demonstrate that the genetic depletion of core components of the ufmylation cascade, including ubiquitin-fold modifier 1 (UFM1), UFM1 activation enzyme 5, UFM1-specific ligase 1 (UFL1), UFM1-specific protease 2, and UFM1-binding protein 1 (UFBP1) each markedly inhibits the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-Golgi transport, surface delivery, and recruitment to COPII vesicles of a subset of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) and UFBP1's function partially relies on UFM1 conjugation. We also show that UFBP1 and UFL1 interact with GPCRs and UFBP1 localizes at COPII vesicles coated with specific Sec24 isoforms. Furthermore, the UFBP1/UFL1-binding domain identified in the receptors effectively converts non-GPCR protein transport into the ufmylation-dependent pathway. Collectively, these data reveal important functions for the ufmylation system in GPCR recruitment to COPII vesicles, biosynthetic transport, and sorting at ER via UFBP1 ufmylation and interaction directly.
Macroautophagy/autophagy is essential for the degradation and recycling of cytoplasmic materials. The initiation of this process is determined by phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PtdIns3K) complex, which is regulated by factor BECN1 (beclin 1). UFMylation is a novel ubiquitin-like modification that has been demonstrated to modulate several cellular activities. However, the role of UFMylation in regulating autophagy has not been fully elucidated. Here, we found that VCP/p97 is UFMylated on K109 by the E3 UFL1 (UFM1 specific ligase 1) and this modification promotes BECN1 stabilization and assembly of the PtdIns3K complex, suggesting a role for VCP/p97 UFMylation in autophagy initiation. Mechanistically, VCP/p97 UFMylation stabilizes BECN1 through ATXN3 (ataxin 3)-mediated deubiquitination. As a key component of the PtdIns3K complex, stabilized BECN1 facilitates assembly of this complex. Re-expression of VCP/p97, but not the UFMylation-defective mutant, rescued the VCP/p97 depletion-induced increase in MAP1LC3B/LC3B protein expression. We also showed that several pathogenic VCP/p97 mutations identified in a variety of neurological disorders and cancers were associated with reduced UFMylation, thus implicating VCP/p97 UFMylation as a potential therapeutic target for these diseases. Abbreviation: ATG14:autophagy related 14; Baf A1:bafilomycin A1;CMT2Y: Charcot-Marie-Toothdisease, axonal, 2Y; CYB5R3: cytochromeb5 reductase 3; DDRGK1: DDRGK domain containing 1; DMEM:Dulbecco'smodified Eagle's medium;ER:endoplasmic reticulum; FBS:fetalbovine serum;FTDALS6:frontotemporaldementia and/or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 6; IBMPFD1:inclusion bodymyopathy with early-onset Paget disease with or withoutfrontotemporal dementia 1; LC-MS/MS:liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry; MAP1LC3B/LC3B:microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MS: massspectrometry; NPLOC4: NPL4 homolog, ubiquitin recognition factor;PIK3C3: phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3;PIK3R4: phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunit 4; PtdIns3K:phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase; RPL26: ribosomal protein L26; RPN1:ribophorin I; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; UBA5: ubiquitin likemodifier activating enzyme 5; UFC1: ubiquitin-fold modifierconjugating enzyme 1; UFD1: ubiquitin recognition factor in ERassociated degradation 1; UFL1: UFM1 specific ligase 1; UFM1:ubiquitin fold modifier 1; UFSP2: UFM1 specific peptidase 2; UVRAG:UV radiation resistance associated; VCP/p97: valosin containingprotein; WT: wild-type.
Successful management of an avulsed tooth depends on preserving periodontal ligament viability during the extraoral period. Although Hank's Balanced Salt Solution (HBSS) is recommended for storage of avulsed teeth, it lacks bioactive components that actively support tissue repair. This study evaluated whether supplementation with L-ascorbic acid (L-AA) could enhance biological responses associated with periodontal healing.Complementary in vitro and ex vivo models were used. Cultured human periodontal ligament cells were exposed to HBSS, HBSS supplemented with L-AA, or Dulbecco's Modified Eagle Medium containing fetal bovine serum. Wound closure, inflammatory cytokine expression, matrix metalloproteinase expression, and collagen type I alpha 1 chain gene and protein expression were evaluated. In the ex vivo model, 18 freshly extracted premolars were stored in the respective media for 24 h at 4°C before assessment of periodontal ligament tissue viability and gene expression. Statistical significance was set at p < 0.05.The optimized concentration of L-AA was 175 μg/mL. Supplementation of HBSS with L-AA resulted in significantly greater wound closure than HBSS alone. In both in vitro and ex vivo models, L-AA supplementation significantly reduced the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines and matrix metalloproteinases while enhancing the expression of collagen type I alpha 1 chain. Although periodontal ligament tissue viability was numerically higher following supplementation, differences were not statistically significant.Supplementation of HBSS with L-AA favorably modulated inflammatory and extracellular matrix-related responses in cultured and ex vivo periodontal ligament tissues. Although no significant improvement in tissue viability was observed, the findings suggest potential biological benefits relevant to periodontal repair. Further studies are required to validate these findings in animal replantation models and determine their clinical relevance.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Cigarette smoke (CS) exposure is a significant environmental trigger for childhood asthma. Although S100 calcium-binding protein A10 (S100A10) is upregulated in asthma patients, its regulatory mechanism in CS-associated asthma remains unclear. This study aimed to elucidate how insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein 3 (IGF2BP3) influences S100A10 expression via the N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification pathway and to investigate the role of the IGF2BP3/S100A10 axis in CS-exposed childhood asthma. A total of 120 asthmatic children were enrolled, with 120 healthy children selected as controls. Serum levels of S100A10 and IGF2BP3 were measured. A murine model of asthma was established using ovalbumin (OVA) induction combined with CS exposure. Lentivirus-mediated overexpression or knockdown of IGF2BP3 or S100A10 was performed to evaluate lung function, inflammatory infiltration, immune cell proportions, and immunoglobulin E (IgE) levels. Airway epithelial cells (AECs) were isolated and treated with cigarette smoke extract (CSE) and OVA to assess apoptosis and inflammatory cytokine levels. RNA immunoprecipitation, m6A methylated RNA immunoprecipitation, and crosslinking immunoprecipitation (CLIP) were conducted to validate the regulatory mechanism between IGF2BP3 and S100A10. The expression of S100A10 and IGF2BP3 was elevated in asthmatic children and OVA-induced asthmatic mice. In OVA-induced asthmatic mice, CS exacerbated OVA-induced asthma phenotypes, including increased lung resistance, enhanced inflammatory infiltration, elevated T helper 2 (Th2) and T helper 17 (Th17) cell proportions, and raised IgE levels. Knockdown of S100A10 or IGF2BP3 ameliorated these pathological changes, while overexpression of S100A10 reversed the protective effects of IGF2BP3 knockdown. Mechanistically, IGF2BP3 bound to m6A modification sites on S100A10 mRNA and enhanced its stability. CSE and OVA promoted IGF2BP3 expression, thereby increasing S100A10 mRNA stability, leading to enhanced epithelial apoptosis and release of inflammatory factors (interleukin-1 beta, interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha). CS exposure aggravates childhood asthma by promoting IGF2BP3 expression and enhancing m6A-dependent stabilization of S100A10 mRNA. Targeting the IGF2BP3/S100A10 axis may provide a novel therapeutic strategy for CS-associated asthma.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is characterized by an aggressive clinical course and extremely limited targeted therapy options. One of the key drivers of immunosuppression in the tumor microenvironment is the polarization of tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) towards the M2 phenotype. In the present study, we investigated the effect of insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF2)-the primary ligand of the IGF1R receptor and a target of the inhibitory protein IGFBP6-on the transcriptional profile of macrophages polarized in vitro from the THP-1 cell line. We demonstrate that IGF2 exerts fundamentally different effects depending on the baseline functional state of the macrophages: in immature (M0) and M2-polarized cells, it induces the expression of pro-inflammatory genes, whereas in M1 macrophages it triggers pronounced immunosuppressive reprogramming. These findings suggest that IGFBP6, by inhibiting IGF2, may sustain an anti-tumor immune response within the TNBC microenvironment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) remains highly aggressive. We identified the long non-coding RNA RMRP as significantly upregulated in MIBC. Functional studies demonstrated that RMRP promotes invasive phenotypes and glycolytic reprogramming. Mechanistically, RMRP binds pyruvate dehydrogenase complex X component (PDHX) and weakens the PDHX-dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase (DLD) interaction, thereby impairing pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC) function, reducing pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) activity, and shifting pyruvate metabolism toward lactate production. The resulting lactate promotes p300-dependent lactylation of insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein 1 (IGF2BP1) at K272 and K561, thereby stabilizing IGF2BP1 by reducing ubiquitin-mediated degradation. Stabilized IGF2BP1, in turn, binds to RMRP and stabilizes it. This establishes an RMRP-PDHX-lactate-IGF2BP1 positive feedback loop that continuously amplifies the invasive phenotype of MIBC. These findings reveal a novel mechanism by which RMRP promotes invasion through metabolic reprogramming and lactylation-mediated feedback, highlighting a potential therapeutic target for MIBC.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Arteriovenous fistula (AVF) maturation is characterized by outward remodeling presented mainly as wall thickening and lumen enlargement, probably mediated by increased differentiated vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) and extracellular matrix (ECM) deposits, at least in part. Our previous study revealed that the highly conserved transcription factor early growth response protein 2 (EGR2) promoted renal tubular epithelial cell differentiation and ECM accumulation. Here, we found that EGR2 expression was enhanced in venous outflow tracts from end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients and mice with AVF surgery accompanied by a thickened venous wall and enlarged lumen. Then, the knockdown of EGR2 could inhibit AVF maturation while EGR2 overexpression further promoted outward remodeling in AVF mice with adeno-associated virus (AAV) administration regulated by differentiated VSMCs and ECM deposition. Mechanistically, gene deletion of EGR2 inhibited c-Myc possibly by binding to the promoter region of the insulin-like growth factor 2 binding protein 2 (IGF2BP2) gene. Moreover, EGR2 was upregulated by histone deacetylase 4 (HDAC4) which probably negatively regulated transcription factor c-Jun, the latter was reported to antagonize the effect of EGR2. Thus, we speculated that EGR2 is upregulated by HDAC4 possibly by negatively regulating c-Jun and promoting outward remodeling through the IGF2BP2/ c-Myc signaling axis during AVF maturation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511998 is a review article
Esophageal squamous-cell carcinoma (ESCC) remains a highly lethal malignancy, with long-term survival still unsatisfactory and an urgent need for clinically relevant molecular targets. Insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein 2 (IGF2BP2) is an RNA-binding protein with oncogenic activity in several tumor types, but the signaling events associated with its role in ESCC have not been fully defined. IGF2BP2 expression was examined in paired ESCC and adjacent non-tumor tissues by immunohistochemistry (10 paired samples) and qRT-PCR (16 paired samples). Associations with clinicopathological variables were evaluated in 108 TCGA ESCC cases. Stable lentiviral shRNA-mediated knockdown was established in KYSE30 and ECA109 cells. CCK-8, colony formation, Transwell, EdU, and flow cytometry assays were used to assess proliferation, clonogenic growth, migration, invasion, apoptosis, and cell-cycle distribution. EMT-associated markers were measured by Western blotting and qRT-PCR. RNA sequencing, KEGG enrichment analysis, and rescue experiments using the AKT activator SC79 were performed to explore downstream signaling. IGF2BP2 was upregulated in ESCC tissues at both the transcript and protein levels, and higher expression was associated with unfavorable clinicopathological characteristics. Silencing IGF2BP2 reduced proliferation, colony formation, migration, and invasion, promoted G0/G1 cell-cycle arrest, and increased apoptosis. EMT-associated marker analysis showed decreased Snail and increased Slug expression, indicating that these changes require cautious interpretation. RNA sequencing and KEGG analysis suggested enrichment of PI3K/AKT-related signaling after IGF2BP2 knockdown. IGF2BP2 silencing decreased PI3K and p-PI3K levels, whereas SC79 partly restored migratory and invasive capacities. IGF2BP2 contributes to malignant phenotypes in ESCC and may be associated with PI3K/AKT-related signaling. These findings indicate that IGF2BP2 is a candidate biomarker and potential therapeutic target, although further mechanistic and pharmacologic validation is required.
Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are dynamically remodeled during infection, yet how viruses exploit circRNA-RNA binding protein (RBP) circuits remains poorly understood. Here, we report a cGLIS3-IGF2BP2-linked TNF-α regulatory axis triggered by deltacoronavirus infection to inhibit antiviral innate immunity. The host m6A reader insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein 2 (IGF2BP2) and viral nucleocapsid (N) protein promote biogenesis of the m6A-modified cGLIS3 by strengthening the GLIS3 exon 3 circulation. Interaction assay reveals that K-Homology domain of IGF2BP2 or the linker region of viral protein N binds to GLIS3 pre-mRNA to achieve cGLIS3 biogenesis, respectively. IGF2BP2 stabilizes the m6A-modified cGLIS3 against RNase L-mediated degradation. cGLIS3 attenuates IGF2BP2-driven TNF-α induction to facilitate deltacoronavirus replication by accelerating K48-linked ubiquitin degradation of IGF2BP2. Together, our findings uncover a coronavirus-elicited circRNA-RBP crosstalk circuit to suppress innate immunity, establishing cGLIS3 as a mechanistically defined regulator of virus-host interactions.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Diabetic chronic wounds, as a prevalent and serious complication of diabetes, pose serious threats to patient health and survival, underscoring the urgent need for effective therapeutic strategies. Stem cell therapy has emerged as a promising approach, but its efficacy is often compromised by the hostile wound microenvironment, characterized by excessive reactive oxygen species and persistent inflammation. To address this challenge, we developed a nanozyme-based engineering strategy to enhance the therapeutic potential of periodontal ligament stem cells (PDLSCs) based on a bimetallic CuNi-MOF nanozyme exhibiting dual superoxide dismutase- and catalase-like activities. In vitro experiments demonstrated that, the CuNi-MOF nanozyme effectively alleviated oxidative stress and reduced cellular senescence in PDLSCs. Mechanistic investigation revealed the involvement of the JNK/ERK signaling axis in this protective effect. In a diabetic wound model, nanozyme-engineered PDLSCs (E-PDLSCs), exhibited superior healing compared with untreated PDLSCs. Specifically, E-PDLSCs significantly accelerated re-epithelialization, enhanced collagen deposition, and promoted angiogenesis, while also modulating inflammatory cytokine levels and macrophage polarization. Overall, this study presents a cell engineering strategy that integrates antioxidant nanozymes with stem cells for chronic wound treatment, extending the potential applications of nanozyme in regenerative medicine.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
2-Ethylhexyl-4-methoxycinnamate (EHMC), an organic ultraviolet filter used in sunscreens, has been detected in water and living organisms at concentrations on the order of ng⋅L⁻¹. To understand the ecotoxicological effects of EHMC at environmentally relevant concentrations, juvenile fish were separately exposed for 22 days to three concentrations (100, 500, and 1000ng⋅L⁻¹). Health assessment was performed using somatic, genetic, and biochemical biomarkers. At the end of the bioassays, condition factor, genotoxicity, neurotoxicity, and biotransformation did not show significant effects on the species. However, exposure to the highest concentration of EHMC induced an increase in the frequency of vacuolated nuclei in A. altiparanae and an increase in catalase activity in O. niloticus. It is concluded that environmentally relevant concentrations of EHMC, even with low toxicity to the studied species, cause specific toxic effects in the evaluated species, with antioxidant responses (in O. niloticus) and genotoxicity responses (in A. altiparanae), suggesting a specific vulnerability for each species.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Treatment of antibiotic-contaminated wastewater using microalgal technology has recently attracted attention for its environmentally friendly nature and potential for resource recovery. However, antibiotic exposure may impact microalgal growth and physiological functions, potentially limiting the use of this technology. This study investigated the influence of phytohormones, specifically indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), gibberellic acid (GA), and kinetin (KIN), on enhancing the growth, physiology, and bioremediation efficiency of Chlorella sorokiniana in response to ciprofloxacin (CIP) exposure. IAA and GA significantly increased biomass accumulation by 67.7-139.1% and 74.1-151.4% during the mid-log phase, and by 43.5-54.8% and 44.1-69.4% during the late-log phase, respectively, compared to the control. The maximum CIP removal efficiency was observed under IAA supplementation (87.97 to 93.70%), followed by GA (84.96 to 88.76%), and KIN (48.75 to 76.05%), compared to the control without phytohormones (43.63 to 76.6%). Mechanistic analysis revealed that biodegradation was the dominant pathway for CIP removal. LC-MS analysis identified multiple transformation intermediates, indicating that CIP degradation proceeded via hydroxylation, oxidation, defluorination, dealkylation, and cleavage of the piperazine ring. Furthermore, IAA supplementation significantly increased the activities of superoxide dismutase (156.73%), catalase (175.2%), and ascorbate peroxidase (107%) at 10 mg L-1 CIP compared with the control. Metabolomic profiling revealed changes in lipid, hydrocarbon, and antioxidant metabolite metabolism, indicating an adaptive response to CIP and phytohormones. The findings highlighted the potential of phytohormones in enhancing microalgal bioremediation efficiency and biomass production under CIP exposure.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Ischemic stroke (IS) reperfusion induces neuronal damage through excessive reactive oxygen species (ROS) and neuroinflammation. Baicalin (Bai) shows antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects but suffers from poor solubility and bioavailability. MOF-818, a zirconium-based framework with superoxide dismutase-and catalase-mimicking activity, efficiently scavenges ROS but lacks pharmacological versatility. Combining Bai with MOF-818 may offer multitarget neuroprotection in IS. To investigate the therapeutic efficacy and mechanisms of Bai-loaded MOF-818 (Bai@MOF-818) in IS. In vitro oxygen-glucose deprivation/reperfusion (OGD/R) models using PC-12 cells and BV-2 microglia were employed to assess ROS scavenging, mitochondrial protection, apoptosis, and microglial polarization.In vivo, Bai@MOF-818 was stereotactically delivered into the ischemic core of rats subjected to transient middle cerebral artery occlusion. Neurological function, infarct volume, oxidative stress, apoptosis, and microglial polarization were evaluated. Bai@MOF-818 markedly scavenged ROS, restored mitochondrial membrane potential, and promoted M1-to-M2 microglial polarization via NF-κB inhibition and PPARγ activation. This led to reduced TNF-α/IL-6 and increased IL-10/Arg-1, alleviating neuroinflammation. Furthermore, Bai@MOF-818 inhibited neuronal apoptosis by suppressing Bax and cleaved caspase-3 while elevating the Bcl-2/Bax ratio. Histological analyses revealed preserved tissue integrity, 5 enhanced neuronal survival, reduced infarct size and edema, and improved motor and sensory recovery. Bai@MOF-818 exerts synergistic antioxidant and anti-inflammatory actions, attenuates neuronal apoptosis, and enhances neurological recovery, representing a promising multitarget therapeutic for cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury.NA.
Antibiotic resistance and oxidative stress-associated infections demand next-generation antimicrobial platforms that move beyond conventional drug mechanisms. Here, we present a nanozybiotic system comprising antibiotic-derived multienzyme-mimic carbon quantum dots co-doped with Cu/Ru (Cu/Ru-Moxi CDs). Engineered through a one-step hydrothermal approach, this platform incorporates a "One-Arrow-Three Hawks" strategy: (i) the retention of intrinsic antibacterial activity from Moxifloxacin, (ii) the emergence of dual peroxidase- (POD)- and catalase (CAT)-like nanozyme activities, and (iii) a pH-dependent catalytic response for potential reactive oxygen species (ROS) modulation. Cu/Ru-Moxi CDs exhibit strong POD- and CAT-like catalytic activity toward H2O2 (Km-TMB = 45.3 µM, Km-H2O2 = 555.3 µM). The nanozyme behavior further confers free-radical scavenging capability and pH-dependent POD- and CAT-like activity toward potential ROS modulation. The biological studies show retained antimicrobial activity against Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria, including multidrug-resistant MRSA, and even Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M. tuberculosis) (H37Rv/H37Ra). The Cu/Ru-Moxi CDs show enhanced biofilm inhibition against MRSA as compared to tested antibiotics. Moreover, the Cu/Ru-Moxi CDs show good cytocompatibility with CC50 > 100 µg/mL. The integration of precursor-derived antibiotic functionality with bimetallic catalytic centers, provides bactericidal action, dual nanozyme activity, and pH-dependent catalytic response, making Cu/Ru-Moxi CDs a promising multifunctional nanozybiotic platform.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
Copyright: &copy; 2026 dos Santos et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License (CC BY 4.0), which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited. Ewing sarcoma (ES) is an aggressive childhood tumor. We have previously shown that tropomyosin receptor kinase (Trk) neurotrophin receptors regulate viability, and the Trk and multi-kinase inhibitor K252a restores sensitivity to chemotherapy, in ES cells. Here, we show that administration of K252a in mice transiently delays ES tumor growth and reduces expression and phosphorylation of multiple targets. BALB/c nu/nu nude mice inoculated with SK-ES-1 ES cells were given daily intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections of K252a for 18 days. Immunohistochemical analysis of tumors was performed to quantify the expression and phosphorylation of Trk receptors, phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K), and insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R). Treatment with K252a led to a partial and transient delay in ES tumor growth and reduced the expression and phosphorylation of TrkA, TrkB, PI3K, and IGF1R. Combined treatment with K252a and the IGF1R inhibitor NVP-ADW742 was more effective in reducing ES cell viability than each compound alone. Associations between genes encoding Trks, PI3K, and IGF1R and overall survival (OS) in patients with ES was examined. Significant associations between expression of NTRK genes and patient OS were found, indicating that NTRK genes should be further evaluated as biomarkers for prognosis in patients with ES.
Rapid eye movement sleep deprivation (REM-SD) is associated with increased oxidative stress, characterized by disruption of the oxidant-antioxidant balance and accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Melatonin may act as a potential modulator of REM-SD-associated oxidative alterations through its circadian regulatory effects, direct ROS scavenging activity, and support of endogenous antioxidant defense mechanisms. This study aimed to evaluate the effects of melatonin treatment administered during the six-day REM-SD period or during the recovery period following REM-SD on oxidative stress-related parameters in 8-12-week-old male Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 84). REM-SD was induced using the modified multiple platform method (MMPM). Biochemical markers reflecting oxidative balance, including total antioxidant status (TAS), total oxidant status (TOS), the lipid peroxidation product malondialdehyde (MDA), non-enzymatic antioxidant glutathione (GSH), and enzymatic antioxidants, including catalase (CAT), superoxide dismutase (SOD), and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) levels, were assessed using the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The findings demonstrated that REM-SD predominantly affected enzymatic antioxidant defense-related parameters. Melatonin modulated these responses, mainly by increasing enzymatic antioxidant levels and reducing lipid peroxidation. However, no significant change was observed in TOS, whereas the effect on TAS was limited and time-dependent. During the recovery period, several oxidative stress markers partially normalized, indicating a possible reactivation of endogenous antioxidant defenses. In conclusion, six-day MMPM-induced REM-SD appears to alter oxidative stress-related parameters, while melatonin may help attenuate some of these alterations by modulating antioxidant defense mechanisms. These effects varied according to the timing of administration and the specific parameter examined.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Staphylococcus infection-associated glomerulonephritis (SAGN) has emerged as the leading cause of infection-related glomerulonephritis (IRGN) in the Western subcontinents, but pathogenesis remains poorly understood in the absence of animal models and detailed molecular mechanisms.To dissect the complex underlying immunopathology, we analyzed formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded kidney biopsy tissues from three patients with SAGN and one normal control kidney (NCK) using single-cell spatial transcriptomics (analyzing a total of 3,993 cell-specific transcriptomes). The SAGN biopsies showed diffuse endocapillary hypercellularity with focal crescents. Following annotation of various cell types, we constructed cell communication networks using CellChat to identify ligand-receptor interactions in normal and SAGN kidneys.Secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1/osteopontin) emerged as the most enriched signaling network in SAGN with markedly increased autocrine and paracrine SPP1-CD44 activity among tubular segments and parietal epithelial cells (PECs). In contrast, SPP1-integrin signaling was mainly observed in healthy control kidneys. Consistent with previous reports, complement pathway activation was detected exclusively in diseased kidneys, with PECs as principal signal receivers, suggesting the potential role in crescent formation. Transcripts for C2, C3, CD55, Factor B, and Factor D showed significant upregulation in SAGN. In contrast, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), angiopoietin-like proteins (ANG PTL), and progranulin/granulin networks exhibited decreased communication probabilities in SAGN versus NCK, suggesting the suppression of protective angiogenic and anti-inflammatory signaling. Immunofluorescence staining for SPP1 showed increased staining in renal tubular segments in SAGN biopsies, supporting our transcriptomic data.SPP1 and complement pathways appear to drive pro-inflammatory responses, while protective VEGF signaling is compromised, providing potential therapeutic targets for this disease.Copyright © 2026 Karaiskos, Santana-Quintero, Bott, Paul, Brodsky, Ayoub, Parikh, Rovin, Nadasdy, Nakhasi, Gannavaram and Satoskar.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42509790 is a review article
Chemotherapy resistance is a major treatment issue for cervical cancer (CC), contributing to high morbidity and mortality. This study identifies key molecular drivers of CC progression and cisplatin (DDP) resistance, focusing on secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1).Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified from TCGA-CC and GSE46857 datasets. Protein-protein interaction network analysis and topological ranking determined candidate genes. SPP1 expression was evaluated in CC cell lines using qPCR and Western blotting. Cisplatin-resistant CC cells were used to examine SPP1's role in drug resistance. Functional assays assessed cell proliferation, apoptosis, migration, and invasion.Bioinformatics analysis identified SPP1 as a hub gene upregulated in CC. SPP1 expression was higher in CC and DDP-resistant cells. Silencing SPP1 inhibited cell growth and enhanced apoptosis, while overexpression had the opposite effects. Silencing SPP1 enhanced DDP sensitivity, while overexpression reduced DDP cytotoxicity. Mechanistically, SPP1 positively correlated with KRAS expression, and KRAS modulation partially reversed SPP1's effects on DDP resistance.SPP1 is upregulated in CC and DDP-resistant cells, promoting tumor progression and chemoresistance via KRAS. Targeting the SPP1-KRAS axis may help overcome chemotherapy resistance in CC.Copyright: © 2026 Long et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Opioid use disorder (OUD) remains a critical global health challenge. The nucleus accumbens (NAc), a key region of the brain reward system, plays an essential role in opioid-induced neuroadaptations. Characterizing gene expression alterations in reward-system regions, such as the NAc, is essential for elucidating the molecular mechanisms underlying addiction. In recent years, bioinformatics has emerged as a rapidly advancing field and has played a pivotal role in elucidating molecular mechanisms and in advancing computational biology.This study aimed to characterize transcriptomic changes in the NAc of mice following chronic morphine administration using RNA sequencing and bioinformatic analysis.RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) data from morphine- and saline-treated mice were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus database via the Sequence Read Archive. Following quality control and alignment, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified using the DESeq2 package in R. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses, as well as protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analyses, were performed to evaluate the functional implications of these genes.Principal component analysis (PCA) revealed distinct transcriptomic profiles between the morphine and control groups. A total of 143 DEGs were identified, including 125 up-regulated and 18 down-regulated genes. Enrichment analyses indicated significant involvement in synaptic signaling, ion transport, and neurodegenerative pathways. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis identified several hub genes, including fgf3 (fibroblast growth factor 3), mki67 (marker of proliferation Ki-67), grin2a/grin2b (glutamate receptor NMDA subunits 2A/2B), gli1 (GLI family zinc finger 1), and ago2 (argonaute RISC catalytic component 2), which are associated with synaptic plasticity, neurogenesis, and epigenetic regulation.Chronic morphine exposure induces widespread gene expression changes in the NAc, engaging pathways associated with synaptic remodeling, neuronal excitability, and addiction-related neuroplasticity. These findings provide a molecular framework for understanding opioid-induced adaptations and identify candidate targets, including N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunits, fgf3, and ago2, for potential therapeutic intervention. Future studies should functionally validate these targets and evaluate their translational relevance in the context of OUD.Copyright © 2026, Pourmand et al.
Equine persistent post-breeding endometritis may lead to endometrosis, characterized by excessive fibrosis, which is a major cause of subfertility/infertility. Endometrial proteomic changes induced by endometritis, when associated with fibrosis, were investigated to identify the biological processes (BP) involved. Cyclic mares´ endometrial biopsies were histologically classified (Kenney and Doig's) as: category IIA (n = 5), category IIA with endometritis (IIA-E; n = 4), category IIB (n = 5), or category IIB with endometritis (IIB-E; n = 5). Proteome was assessed by LC-MS/MS. In total, 62 differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) were identified in IIA-E endometria, compared to IIA; and 46 in IIB-E endometria, compared to IIB. The DAPs in endometria with endometritis (IIA-E vs. IIA; IIB-E vs. IIB) were mostly enriched in BP related to immune/inflammatory response, DNA-related process and cell cycle. Inflammatory-related proteins (serpin proteins and several phospholipases) were upregulated in endometritis, regardless of the degree of fibrosis and inflammation, suggesting the activation of conserved innate immune mechanisms. Nevertheless, fibrosis severity determined the expression pattern of histone H2A, which was upregulated in IIA-E endometria, and downregulated in IIB-E endometria. Additionally, other inflammatory-related proteins (azurocidin 1, eosinophil peroxidase and secreted phosphoprotein 1) were differently abundant only in endometritis associated with endometrosis (IIB-E), indicating that moderate fibrosis and endometrial degeneration may influence the inflammatory and tissue remodelling response. In conclusion, although conserved innate immune mechanisms operate independently of fibrosis severity and of endometrial inflammatory state, other processes activated during endometritis are influenced by the endometrium milieu, namely by the progression of endometrial fibrosis, which might modulate specific molecular responses.© 2026. The Author(s).
Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) is a major cause of primary glomerular disease, characterized by progressive podocyte injury and loss. This study aimed to identify the RNA methylation regulator WTAP (Wilms' tumor 1-associated protein) as a novel pathogenic factor in FSGS.WTAP expression in podocytes was detected in kidney biopsies from patients with FSGS and in an adriamycin-induced FSGS mouse model. Two podocyte-specific Wtap-deficient mouse models were generated using the Cre-loxP system: a constitutive knockout (cKO) model and a tamoxifen-inducible knockout model. Loss- and gain-of-function strategies were used to investigate the functional role of WTAP in podocytes both in vivo and in vitro.WTAP expression was significantly decreased in podocytes from patients with FSGS and in the adriamycin-induced FSGS mouse model. Both cKO and tamoxifen-inducible knockout mice developed progressive glomerulosclerosis with characteristic features of FSGS. WTAP overexpression in podocytes attenuated podocyte injury both in vivo and in vitro. cKO mice exhibited alterations in the proportions of various renal cell types, including both renal intrinsic and inflammatory cells. Mechanistically, WTAP regulates SPP1 m6A methylation, thereby modulating its stability and expression. Notably, SPP1-mediated signaling emerged as a central hub coordinating pathological cell-cell interactions in cKO mouse kidneys, and neutralization of SPP1 significantly ameliorated renal injury in both cKO and adriamycin-induced FSGS mice.We successfully constructed 2 FSGS mouse models that are suitable for investigating the pathogenic mechanisms and therapeutic targets of FSGS. Our findings demonstrate that the WTAP/SPP1 (secreted phosphoprotein 1) signaling pathway contributes to the renal pathological changes in FSGS, suggesting that targeting this pathway may represent a promising therapeutic strategy.
This study aimed to explore the exosome-related gene network in herpes stromal keratitis (HSK) and to identify key molecular drivers, focusing on the role of secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1) and investigating the therapeutic potential of ursolic acid (UA).Transcriptomic RNA sequencing was performed on corneal tissues from herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1)-infected mice. Bioinformatics analyses included identification of differentially expressed genes (DEGs), immune cell infiltration assessment, exosome-related gene network construction, functional enrichment analyses, and compound-gene network creation. Immune infiltration findings were further validated using single-cell RNA sequencing and flow cytometry. Key findings were validated in a mouse HSK model using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), western blot, and immunohistochemistry. The therapeutic effect and mechanism of UA were investigated through subconjunctival administration, with subsequent evaluation of corneal lesions, angiogenesis, fibrosis, and key signaling pathways.Through analysis, 222 DEGs associated with exosomes were identified in HSK, and the exosome-related gene network revealed that the primary functional cluster was centered on the positive regulation of cell adhesion. Among the genes in the primary functional cluster, SPP1 emerged as a hub gene, demonstrating significant upregulation that correlated with clinical progression. SPP1 expression exhibited a shift from corneal epithelial cells under normal conditions to infiltrating immune cells, particularly neutrophils and monocytes, during HSK. In a mouse model, treatment with UA significantly reduced corneal opacity, vessel in-growth, and inflammatory cell infiltration. Mechanistically, UA downregulated SPP1 expression and subsequently inhibited the activation of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt signaling pathway.These findings provide new insights into the exosome-related gene network and the mechanisms of HSK, while identifying UA as a promising candidate for therapeutic development.
Postmenopausal osteoporosis(PMOP) is triggered by estrogen deficiency. Insufficient estrogen lead to bone resorption exceeding bone formation, thereby causing decreased bone mass. Studies have confirmed that the total flavonoids extract from Epimedii Folium(TFE) can ameliorate osteoporosis, while the bone nutrient consisting of chondroitin sulfate(CS) combined with glucosamine hydrochloride(GLcN) exerts therapeutic effects on bone metabolism-related diseases. Since osteoporosis is fundamentally characterized by metabolic disorders, the combination of TFE-bone nutritional supplement(TG) may exert synergistic multi-target regulatory effects, thereby offering a new approach for the prevention and control of PMOP. This study systematically explored the ameliorating effects and mechanisms of TG on PMOP through in vivo and in vitro experiments combined with metabolomics technology. In vivo, a rat model of OVX was established by bilateral ovariectomy. The pharmacodynamic effects of TG on PMOP were verified based on bone histopathological staining, bone mineral density, and physiological indicators. In addition, metabolomics technology was used to quantify urine metabolites to explore the potential biomarkers of PMOP regulated by TG and the associated metabolic networks. In vitro, MC3T3-E1 cells were treated with TFE and TG to screen safe drug doses. Subsequently, osteogenic induction was performed, and the effects and mechanisms of TG on the osteogenic differentiation of MC3T3-E1 cells were studied by ALP staining, ARS staining, and Western blot analysis. Pharmacodynamic results showed that TG reduced the generation of osteoclasts and significantly restored bone mineral density and physiological indicator levels. Metabolomic results indicated that TG alleviated bone loss mainly by intervening with multiple metabolic pathways, including nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism, histidine metabolism, pyrimidine metabolism, tryptophan metabolism, alanine, aspartate and glutamate metabolism, purine metabolism, vitamin B6 metabolism, etc. In vitro experiments confirmed that TG promoted the proliferation of osteoblasts and osteogenic differentiation via the bone morphogenetic protein-2(BMP-2)/Sma-and Mad-related protein(Smad) signaling pathway. In summary, TG can effectively ameliorate PMOP through a multi-target synergistic effect. This study provides an experimental basis and theoretical support for the clinical application of TG.
Ganoderic acid A (GAA), a natural triterpenoid derived from the fungal species Ganoderma lucidum which is known for its medicinal properties, is well recognized for its anti-inflammatory, anti-aging, kidney-protective, and hepatoprotective properties. However, its role in osteoporotic fracture (OF) healing remains unclear.This study aims to explore the pharmacological effects of GAA on OF healing and to clarify its underlying mechanisms.An ovariectomized femoral fracture model was treated with GAA or estradiol benzoate. Callus formation, mineralization and bone mineral density (BMD) were assessed by micro-computed tomography, radiographic scoring and DXA. Mechanical properties were evaluated by three-point bending tests. Histological analyses and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for serum bone formation and resorption markers were performed. RNA sequencing with GO, KEGG and GSEA analyses was used to explore molecular mechanisms. In vitro, MC3T3-E1 cells were used to assess osteogenic differentiation under GAA, estrogen receptor (ER) antagonist (ICI 182780) or selective ERα antagonist (Methyl-piperidino-pyrazole dihydrochloride, MPP) treatment. Biophysical interaction assays and molecular simulations were employed to characterize GAA-ERα interactions.GAA enhanced early callus mineralization, bone volume fraction, callus volume and trabecular number, and increased radiographic union, bone mineral density and flexural rigidity in OF mice. Histological analysis showed increased soft callus and mineralized bone with elevated bone formation and resorption markers. Transcriptomic analyses indicated that GAA modulated hormone-related pathways, identifying the estrogen signaling pathway as a key target. In vitro, GAA promoted alkaline phosphatase activity, mineral deposition and expressions of phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1/2 (p-ERK1/2), Runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) and bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP2), all of which were abrogated by ICI 182780 and MPP. Notably, molecular interaction studies demonstrated direct and stable binding of GAA to ERα.GAA promotes osteogenic differentiation and accelerates OF healing via ERα.The work offers a conceptual advance by identifying a fungal-derived small molecule that functions as an ERα ligand to promote fracture repair, supporting its potential as a therapeutic candidate for OF.© 2026 The Authors.
Distraction osteogenesis (DO) remains limited by prolonged consolidation and delayed bone union. This study evaluated whether a biodegradable, bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2)-releasing intramedullary implant (IMI) could enhance bone regenerate formation in a rat monofocal femoral lengthening model. We developed a Hybrid Tissue Engineering Construct (HyTEC) comprising a 3D-printed polycaprolactone-β-tricalcium phosphate IMI coated with a BMP-2-loaded hydrogel. Rats underwent standardized lengthening in three groups: control (DO only), IMI (implant without BMP-2), and IMI-BMP2 (BMP-2-releasing implant), with evaluation at postoperative days 31 and 52. The IMI-BMP2 group demonstrated significantly superior osteogenesis, achieving a bone volume fraction of 80 ± 22% at day 31, compared to 35 ± 19% (IMI) and 54 ± 25% (control), indicating accelerated regenerate formation. Radiographic and histological analyses confirmed early, uniform callus formation, while immunohistochemistry revealed elevated osteocalcin expression. Mechanical testing demonstrated restoration of approximately 50% of normal bone strength by day 52. Transcriptomic profiling revealed an exploratory BMP-2-associated regenerative gene signature, suggesting coordinated early-phase regulation of remodeling and metabolic reprogramming. This bioactive implant accelerated bone union, facilitated improved early ambulation consistent with partial mechanical competence restoration, and significantly shortened consolidation time, representing a promising clinically translatable strategy to overcome conventional DO limitations and improve patient outcomes. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Distraction osteogenesis is an effective strategy for managing large bone defects, but its clinical use is limited by prolonged consolidation and delayed functional recovery. This study presents a biodegradable intramedullary implant that provides sustained bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) delivery and markedly accelerates regenerate formation, improves early mechanical strength, and enables earlier weight-bearing in a rat femoral lengthening model. In addition to demonstrating therapeutic efficacy, the work identifies a BMP-2-associated regenerative transcriptional signature linked to remodeling, osteoclast activity, and metabolic reprogramming. These findings establish a clinically translatable biomaterial-based approach to shorten treatment time and improve outcomes in distraction osteogenesis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Peri-implantitis is a biofilm-associated infectious disorder marked by progressive peri-implant bone loss and remains a major cause of late implant failure. To achieve simultaneous antibacterial treatment and bone regeneration, an injectable charge-complementary hydrogel (BMP-2@HA/ϵ-PL) was fabricated using anionic hyaluronic acid (HA), cationicϵ-poly-L-lysine (ϵ-PL), and positively charged bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2). Its structural and physicochemical features were examined by Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy, scanning electron microscopy (SEM), rheological testing, compression analysis, and swelling-degradation behavior assessments. BMP-2 release was quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.In vitro, cytocompatibility of the BMP-2@HA/ϵ-PL hydrogel with rat bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) was evaluated by CCK-8 and live/dead staining, whereas osteogenic differentiation was assessed by alkaline phosphatase activity, calcium deposition, and expression of osteogenesis-related genes. Antibacterial activityin vitrowas evaluated againstS. aureus(S. aureus) andE. coli(E. coli). The results demonstrated the successful synthesis of the hydrogels, and BMP-2 incorporation optimized the physicochemical properties (a densely packed network, higher compressive strength, and slower degradation) of the BMP-2@HA/ϵ-PL hydrogel, which also showed effective BMP-2 release.In vitroevaluation further indicated that the BMP-2@HA/ϵ-PL hydrogel exhibited favorable cytocompatibility, enhanced osteogenic differentiation of BMSCs due to the synergistic effect of HA and BMP-2, and robust antibacterial effects against bothS. aureusandE. coli. These findings indicate that the injectable BMP-2@HA/ϵ-PL hydrogel features dual antibacterial and osteoinductive functions, offering a promising minimally invasive strategy for peri-implantitis treatment.© 2026 IOP Publishing Ltd. All rights, including for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies, are reserved.
Atherosclerosis is the leading cause of cardiovascular disease and mortality worldwide. The proliferation, migration, and phenotypic switching of vascular smooth muscle cells are central to its pathogenesis. Bortezomib, the first Food and Drug Administration-approved proteasome inhibitor for multiple myeloma, suppresses the proliferation and migration of pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells. However, its effects on aortic vascular smooth muscle cells (AoSMCs) remain unclear.Rat AoSMCs were treated with platelet-derived growth factor-BB (PDGF-BB) or angiotensin II (Ang II), with or without bortezomib. Cytotoxicity, proliferation, and migration were assessed by MTT, wound healing, and Boyden chamber assays. Intracellular and mitochondrial ROS were measured by DCFH-DA and MitoSOX. mRNA and protein levels of bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2), Runt-related transcription factor 2 (Runx2), α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), and phosphorylated protein kinase B (Akt) were assessed by RT-qPCR and Western blotting. Calcium deposition was assessed using Alizarin Red S staining.Bortezomib attenuated PDGF-BB and Ang II-induced proliferation and migration of AoSMCs accompanied by reduced ROS production and decreased phosphorylation of ERK and Akt. Furthermore, bortezomib suppressed PDGF-BB- and Ang II-induced osteogenic markers (BMP-2 and Runx2) and calcium deposition, while restoring the contractile marker α-SMA, which was inhibited by PDGF-BB and Ang II.Bortezomib attenuated PDGF-BB- and Ang II-induced proliferation, migration, and phenotypic switching of AoSMCs, potentially through reduced ROS production. Mechanistically, bortezomib inhibited ERK and Akt phosphorylation and restored a contractile phenotype. These findings suggest that proteasome inhibition may offer a novel therapeutic approach to modulate vascular remodeling in atherosclerosis.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is characterized by failed alveolar epithelial repair and progressive fibrotic remodeling. Although aberrant reprogramming of alveolar type 2 (AT2) cells and accumulation of transitional AT2 states are increasing recognized as central features of IPF, the epithelial-intrinsic mechanisms that initiate these pathogenic states remain incompletely understood. Here, we identify mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM), a regulator of mitochondrial DNA maintenance, as a critical regulator of AT2 cell homeostasis. TFAM expression was reduced in AT2 cells from human IPF lungs. Inducible AT2 cell-specific Tfam deletion in mice caused spontaneous fibrotic remodeling and increased susceptibility to bleomycin-induced lung injury. TFAM-deficient AT2 cells acquired KRT8+ transitional and p21+ senescence-associated features before the onset of fibrotic transformation, accompanied by impaired oxidative phosphorylation, redox imbalance, mitochondrial superoxide accumulation, repression of mtDNA-encoded respiratory genes, and disrupted mitochondrial ultrastructure. TFAM-deficient AT2 cells developed a profibrotic secretory program that promoted extracellular matrix deposition and fibroblast activation. We further identified insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 2 (IGFBP2) as a secreted mediator induced in TFAM-deficient AT2 cells. IGFBP2 was elevated in AT2 cells in human IPF lung tissue and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) from patients with IPF. IGFBP2 was detected in supernatants from fibrotic human precision-cut lung slices (hPCLS). IGFBP2 neutralization attenuated profibrotic remodeling in fibrotic hPCLS. Collectively, our findings identify TFAM-dependent mitochondrial homeostasis as an epithelial checkpoint linking AT2 cell-state stability to impaired epithelial-mesenchymal crosstalk driving pulmonary fibrosis.
Diabetic Cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a serious diabetic complication with limited therapies. While XuanTong BuLuo Decoction (XTBLD) benefits diabetic complications, its active components and anti-DCM mechanisms are unclear. This study aimed to predict XTBLD's active ingredients, key targets, and related pathways against DCM via network pharmacology, and verify them by animal experiments.Network pharmacology and molecular docking were used to screen XTBLD's active components, potential targets against DCM, and their binding affinity. Animal experiments evaluated XTBLD's therapeutic effects on DCM by assessing glycemic control, inflammation, and key protein expression in related pathways.A total of 173 active ingredients were screened from XTBLD, with 217 intersecting genes obtained. Enrichment analysis revealed 125 signaling pathways, with 11 involved in XTBLD against DCM. Five main active components were identified using UPLC-MS/MS. In diabetic mice, XTBLD showed positive effects on blood glucose control, inflammatory response, and creatine kinase isoenzyme levels, as well as the expression of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1 and insulin-like growth factor binding protein 3.This study demonstrates that XTBLD exerts cardioprotective effects against DCM via regulating its key active components, core targets (CDKN1A, IGFBP3), and related signaling pathways, providing a scientific basis for XTBLD's clinical application in DCM management.XTBLD may exhibits a potential protective effect on glycemic control and myocardial injury by regulating signaling pathways associated with cell growth, apoptosis, and inflammatory responses, with puerarin, luteolin, formononetin, kaempferol, and quercetin proposed as its potential main active components.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
In the original publication [...].
Skipped: PubMed ID 42509832 is a review article
Lipedema is a chronic disorder that predominantly affects women and is characterized by abnormal subcutaneous adipose tissue accumulation, pain, and vascular dysfunction. However, reliable circulating biomarkers that reflect disease-specific pathophysiology are still lacking. This study investigated serum markers associated with adipose tissue, inflammation, and angiogenesis to further elucidate the pathophysiology of lipedema.In this cross-sectional observational study, fasting serum levels of adiponectin, chemerin, lipopolysaccharide-binding protein (LBP), proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9), soluble CD163 (sCD163), and soluble CD137 (sCD137)-proteins associated with obesity and inflammation-were measured in 23 premenopausal women with lipedema and 23 age-matched healthy premenopausal controls. Serum endostatin levels, an angiogenesis inhibitor, and insulin-like growth factor binding protein 2 (IGFBP2), a potent proangiogenic factor, were also assessed.Patients with lipedema and obese controls had comparable body mass index, glucose, and serum lipid profiles. No significant differences were observed between groups in circulating levels of adiponectin, chemerin, LBP, PCSK9, sCD163, sCD137 and IGFBP2. In contrast, serum endostatin levels were significantly reduced in patients with lipedema (p = 0.038). Additional analyses demonstrated markedly higher endostatin expression in human subcutaneous adipose tissue than in the liver, suggesting that circulating endostatin levels may be related to adipose tissue mass. However, serum endostatin levels were lower in obese compared with normal-weight women (p < 0.001).Lipedema was not associated with altered circulating levels of adiponectin, chemerin, LBP, PCSK9, sCD163, sCD137 or IGFBP2. Reduced serum endostatin levels support a potential role for vascular dysfunction in the pathophysiology of lipedema.
Currently, there are no blood biomarkers available for the early diagnosis of laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC). The objective of this study was to search for potential plasma biomarkers for the diagnosis of LSCC.Plasma samples were taken from patients with LSCC and healthy controls for proteomic analysis. An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was employed to measure the expression levels of differentially expressed proteins in plasma. The expression of differential protein in LSCC cells was downregulated. Subsequently, the function of LSCC cells was evaluated using wound healing, transwell migration, incorporation of 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU), and colony formation assays. Analysis of Plasma IGFBP2 Levels in Relation to Clinical Data and Evaluation of IGFBP2 as a Diagnostic and Prognostic Biomarker Using TCGA Database.A total of 16 differentially expressed proteins were identified in the plasma from patients with LSCC and healthy controls. Significant differences in protein expression patterns were observed between the LSCC patient group and the healthy control group. The expression of insulin-like growth factor binding protein 2 (IGFBP2) in plasma of LSCC patients was significantly higher than that of healthy controls. After suppression of IGFBP2 expression, the migration, invasion, and proliferation abilities of LSCC cells were reduced and the expression of signal transduction and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) was negatively regulated. The analysis of IGFBP2 expression in the TCGA-LSCC data set showed a significant upregulation in tumor tissue compared to adjacent normal tissue. Furthermore, no significant differences in plasma IGFBP2 levels were observed with regard to gender, smoking status, history of malignancy, or tumor subsite. A positive correlation was observed between T stage and IGFBP2 levels. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis revealed that higher IGFBP2 expression levels were significantly associated with worse overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS). Univariable Cox regression analysis identified high IGFBP2 expression as a significant predictor of poor prognosis (hazard ratio [HR] = 3.52, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.84-6.75, p < 0.001). Furthermore, multivariable Cox regression analysis confirmed the independent prognostic value of IGFBP2 expression, with a hazard ratio (HR) of 3.32 (95% CI: 1.63-6.78, p < 0.001).IGFBP2 may play a role in the occurrence and development of LSCC as an oncogene and may be used as a potential plasma biomarker for the diagnosis of LSCC. IGFBP2 may be related to STAT3 in mechanism.© 2025 The Author(s). World Journal of Otorhinolaryngology ‐ Head and Neck Surgery published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd on behalf of Chinese Medical Association.
A nucleus is a remarkably arranged organelle partitioned from the cytosol by a nuclear envelope to encapsulate a highly structured space including a well-organized genome and nucleolus. Despite the conservation, our understanding of the molecular mechanisms driving and maintaining nuclear structure are limited. Here, we investigated the influence of myosin motors in the nucleus. Classically, motor proteins are known for mediating the active transport of cargo facilitating cytoplasmic organization yet how the spacing of nucleoplasmic biomolecules is coordinated was not well defined. We found that nuclear type I myosins were essential for cell division whereas nuclear type II and V myosins were not. Depletion of type I myosin from the nucleus triggered 3D genome disorganization, gene expression changes, nucleolar disruption, and nuclear envelope morphology disfigurement. Declined nucleolar function, including rRNA synthesis and processing, occurred first followed by disorganization of the genome. Notably, nuclear depletion of type I myosin correlated with altered dynamic mobilities of the nucleolar Nop1 (fibrillarin) protein and RNA polymerase I. Overall, nuclear type I myosin is critical for the shape and activities of the nucleolus and nucleus.© 2026 Peng et al.; Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.
Cardiac cachexia (CC) is an indicator of advanced heart failure (AHF), with significant unintentional weight loss (UWL) and poor prognosis. Its diagnostic criteria incorporate upregulation of established inflammatory cytokines. Identification of novel biomarkers, for example, via proteomic analyses, could unearth unstudied mechanisms behind CC formation with future applications in disease therapeutics. This study, therefore, aimed to explore the presence of contemporary, novel biomarkers, and mechanistic pathways in CC using targeted proteomics.Patients with AHF or stable heart failure were recruited and the presence of CC/UWL was identified. AHF was identified using the American Heart Association "I NEED HELP" criteria, and CC was identified using the contemporary 2008 consensus definition. All patients underwent phlebotomy, with plasma proteomic analyses using Olink Target 96 Cardiovascular II panel. Median proteins concentrations were compared between the CC/UWL group and the rest of cohort, with enrichment analyses conducted to identify potential novel pathways behind disease formation. Area under the receiver operator curve analysis was conducted to determine whether significant biomarkers had potential in identifying CC/UWL.Six proteins were differentially expressed in the CC/UWL group, of which four were novel: interleukin-27 and -4, vascular endothelial growth factor D, and bone morphogenetic protein-6. All were suitable biomarkers (area under the receiver operator curve range 0.741-0.826). Protein enrichment analyses yielded significant pathways in disease formation relating to immune regulation and cytokine signalling.We identified four novel biomarkers in CC, all of which are feasible biomarkers of disease identification, with proposed pathways of potential pathogenesis. Further research should be undertaken to validate our findings to better understand the mechanistic pathways in functional studies, with onward consideration regarding whether our findings have therapeutic applications.Copyright © 2026 Australian and New Zealand Society of Cardiac and Thoracic Surgeons (ANZSCTS) and the Cardiac Society of Australia and New Zealand (CSANZ). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
2'-O-methylation (Nm) is a key epitranscriptomic mark across diverse RNAs, yet its role in antiviral defense remains largely unexplored. To systematically investigate the landscape and functional significance of internal Nm modifications on enterovirus RNAs, a sensitive sequencing method termed RACE-Nm was established, in combination with the machine learning-based predictor NanoNm, to map Nm sites on low-abundance RNAs at single-nucleotide resolution. A conserved Nm site was identified at nucleotide 307C within the viral internal ribosome entry site (IRES), which was catalyzed by the methyltransferase FBL. The 2'-O-methylation at 307C caused steric hindrance that disrupted PCBP2 recruitment to the IRES and repressed cap-independent translation. Consequently, FBL-mediated suppression of IRES activity limited the production of the viral RNA polymerase 3D, which in turn prevented the upregulation of a set of pro-viral host genes, including FOSL1, ITGB3, and KCNQ4. The physiological importance of this defense mechanism was further demonstrated in vivo, as EV71 mutant lacking the 307C site showed markedly enhanced replication, aggravated tissue damage, and increased lethality in mouse model. Our study establishes FBL-mediated internal Nm modification as a novel host defense pathway that directly targets cap-independent translation to restrict enteroviral infection, highlighting the epitranscriptomic regulation of host-virus interactions.Copyright: © 2026 Zhang et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma is characterized by an abundant extracellular matrix that contributes significantly to its resistance to chemotherapy. As the predominant cellular component of the tumor stroma, fibroblasts not only establish a physical barrier but also modulate intracellular signaling pathways within tumor cells. In this study, we demonstrate that fibroblasts secrete Integrin Binding Sialoprotein (IBSP) into the extracellular milieu, where it binds to ITGAV on the surface of tumor cells, thereby activating the downstream PI3K/AKT signaling pathway and promoting resistance to gemcitabine-induced apoptosis. Moreover, we confirm that IBSP, as a secreted protein, is stably detectable in peripheral blood and is significantly associated with gemcitabine resistance. Circulating IBSP expression may serve as a potential biomarker for selecting ITGAV inhibitors in combination with gemcitabine to improve chemotherapy responsiveness.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42416402 is a review article
Breast cancer (BC) is the main cause of cancer-related mortality in women and is influenced by genetic, environmental and lifestyle factors. The inactivation of tumor suppressor genes, such as bone morphogenetic protein 6 (BMP6), breast cancer susceptibility gene 1 (BRCA1), estrogen receptor 2 (ESR2), glutathione S-transferase π1 (GSTP1) and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 3 (TIMP3), via methylation may contribute to the development of BC. The present study analyzed the methylation status of these genes in 60 BC and benign disease (BD) tissue samples from Mexican women and the association with clinical and histopathological variables. DNA was modified with sodium bisulfite, followed by methylation-specific PCR and electrophoresis, and analyzed using χ2 test, Fisher's exact test, logistic regression, odds ratio (OR) with 95% confidence interval and Kaplan-Meier curves. The results indicated that the average age was higher in the BC group compared with that in the BD group (55 vs. 42 years; P<0.00001), with ≥50 years being a significant risk factor (OR, 5.44; P=0.00002). Only BRCA1 demonstrated a significant difference in methylation status, increasing the susceptibility to BC (OR, 2.50; P=0.0001), and tending to be associated with increased proliferation and lymph node metastasis. TIMP3 methylation was significantly associated with distant metastasis (OR, 8.65; P=0.028). Methylation of BRCA1 and TIMP3 demonstrated a significant association with poor prognosis in BC. BRCA1 was methylated more frequently in women with BC and TIMP3 was associated with a higher risk of distant metastasis. The present study highlighted the potential of these genes as prognostic biomarkers and the need to further explore DNA methylation for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes in future research.Copyright: © 2026 de la Torre-Guzmán et al.
The nucleolus is a multilayered organelle essential for ribosome biogenesis, yet how ribosomal RNA (rRNA) events coordinate its organization remains unclear. We previously reported that the accumulation of 27SA2 pre-rRNA upon class I RPLs (large subunit ribosomal proteins) depletion accompanies the formation of nucleolar rings and vacuoles in Caenorhabditis elegans. Here, we systematically investigated the effects of pre-18S rRNA processing and rRNA transcription on nucleolar structure and reported that defects in these molecular events result in reorganization of the nucleolar architecture. Depleting class I RPSs (small subunit ribosomal proteins) induced a concentric three-layered nucleolar architecture, while inhibiting rRNA transcription induced another three-layered sandwich-like nucleolus. During nucleolar reshaping, nucleolar proteins redistributed into distinct subnucleolar compartments. Tracking the subcellular localization of ribosomal DNA (rDNA) via a lacI::tagRFP/lacO system revealed that rDNA also redistributed upon nucleolar reorganization. We identified Ce.22SB pre-rRNA accumulation upon class I RPSs depletion as a key intermediate associated with concentric-spherical nucleoli. Moreover, the conserved nucleolar protein NUCL-1/nucleolin, FIB-1/fibrillarin, and LPD-6/PPAN are essential for nucleolar architecture reorganization and regulates the development of nematodes during impaired rRNA production. Together, these findings demonstrate that nucleolar architecture is associated with the status of rRNA biogenesis and that the accumulation of specific rRNA intermediates correlates with the emergence of distinct nucleolar architectures.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Endometrial cancer is among the most commonly diagnosed malignant neoplasms of the female reproductive system, with peak incidence occurring in the perimenopausal and postmenopausal periods. The pathogenesis of this disease is multifactorial and associated with several well-established risk factors, including hormonal imbalance, obesity, and late onset of menopause. We report the case of a 64-year-old woman diagnosed with grade I endometrioid adenocarcinoma, stage IA according to the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) 2009 classification. The patient initially underwent total laparoscopic hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. More than three years after surgery, disease recurrence was detected during routine follow-up. Subsequent molecular analysis revealed a loss-of-function mutation in the NF1 (neurofibromin 1) gene. Based on the molecular profile of the tumor, the patient was qualified for off-label targeted therapy with everolimus, an inhibitor of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway. Treatment with everolimus resulted in complete remission, which has been sustained to date. However, therapy was associated with significant metabolic toxicity, including severe dyslipidemia requiring pharmacological management, ultimately leading to treatment discontinuation. To our knowledge, this is the first case report to demonstrate a successful mutation-driven therapeutic decision in this specific clinical setting of endometrioid adenocarcinoma, where the identification of a pathogenic NF1 loss-of-function mutation provided the only viable targeted pathway in a tumor lacking standard biomarkers such as estrogen or progesterone receptor expression or microsatellite instability. This case serves as a paradigm for mechanism-driven precision oncology, illustrating that everolimus monotherapy can achieve durable clinical benefit in NF1-deficient recurrent endometrial cancer, with remission persisting even after treatment discontinuation. These findings highlight the clinical relevance of comprehensive molecular diagnostics and support the integration of personalized treatment strategies into modern gynecologic oncology.Copyright © 2026 Machulak, Zwierzchowska, Łysak, Kośmider, Szklener and Skórzewska.
Systematically interrogating the genetic regulators of long-term hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) function and their roles in malignant transformation in vivo remains a central challenge. We developed and validated a sequential in vivo CRISPR screening platform characterized by high sgRNA recovery after a 5-month reconstitution period and a pioneering pooled secondary transplantation strategy. This system not only identified enriched genes but also modeled the dynamics of clonal evolution. As a robust validation of our platform's sensitivity, the screen identified Neurofibromin 1 (Nf1), a quintessential tumor suppressor, as the dominant hit using a focused transcription factor library. The primary screen recapitulated a myeloproliferative state. Strikingly, the secondary transplantation screen amplified this phenotype and led to malignant hematopoiesis. Thus, this 2-step approach establishes a powerful paradigm for studying the genetic drivers of long-term hematopoiesis and the evolutionary dynamics of hematological malignancies.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc., on behalf of the Chinese Medical Association (CMA) and Institute of Hematology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College (IHCAMS).
Integrin-binding sialoprotein (IBSP) has been implicated in bone metastasis in breast, lung, and prostate cancers. However, its role in glioma remains insufficiently characterized. The aim of this study was to assess the expression profile and prognostic significance of IBSP in patients with glioma.Gene expression data associated with glioma prognosis were obtained from the Chinese Glioma Genome Atlas and Gene Expression Omnibus Series databases and analyzed in relation to clinical characteristics. The prognostic value of IBSP was assessed using univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses. Immunohistochemical analysis was performed to validate these findings. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was conducted to identify molecular pathways associated with IBSP expression and its contribution to adverse prognosis. Additionally, gene set cancer analysis was used to explore potential therapeutic agents targeting IBSP.IBSP expression was elevated in glioma tissues and demonstrated a positive correlation with increasing World Health Organization grade. Multivariate Cox regression analysis identified IBSP as an independent prognostic factor across multiple datasets (HR = 1.531; 95% CI: 1.07-2.192; p = 0.020). GSEA indicated that IBSP is involved in apoptosis, coagulation, and complement pathways. Several genes, including CASP4, KYNU, MSR1, PLAUR, SIGLEC9, and SLC16A3, were positively correlated with IBSP expression and are implicated in glioma pathogenesis. Furthermore, alvocidib and dinaciclib were identified as potential therapeutic agents targeting IBSP.IBSP represents an independent prognostic biomarker associated with adverse outcomes in glioma. These findings provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying IBSP-associated glioma progression and highlight potential therapeutic targets that may contribute to improved clinical outcomes in patients with glioma.© 2026. The Author(s).
Intravenous administration of clazosentan, a selective endothelin receptor subtype A antagonist, has been used as an anti-vasospastic agent. This study aimed to investigate whether intrathecal administration of clazosentan prevents neuroinflammation and affects lymphatic clearance of hemoglobin in a mouse model of acute subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH).Male C57BL/6 mice (n=109) underwent prechiasmatic cisternal injection models of SAH or sham models. From 30 minutes post-modeling, mice randomly received a continuous intracerebroventricular infusion of saline or clazosentan (1, 0.2, and 0.04 μg in 192 μL of saline; defined as 50%, 10%, and 2% of the clinically achievable blood concentration, respectively) at a rate of 8 μL/h for 24 hours. The intervention effects were assessed by neurobehavioral testing, SAH grading, and immunohistochemical staining at 24 and 48 hours, and Western blotting at 24 hours post-modeling.Clazosentan treatment did not influence SAH grading but showed a dose-dependent trend toward improved survival in SAH mice. A comparison of saline treatment and 50% clazosentan treatment revealed that clazosentan significantly suppressed post-SAH neurological deterioration, hemoglobin infiltration into the brain, and induction of ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1 and tenascin-C in the brain, and significantly upregulated vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-3 in the brain without affecting vascular endothelial growth factor-C levels. When comparing the effects of different clazosentan doses, an inhibitory effect on neuroinflammation was observed up to 10% clazosentan. At 48 hours post-modeling, clazosentan administration dose-dependently inhibited neurological deterioration, hemoglobin infiltration into the brain and activation of perivascular macrophages and microglia, and increased hemoglobin deposition in the deep cervical lymph nodes of SAH mice without intracranial lymphatic vessel proliferation.This study first showed that intrathecal administration of clazosentan can suppress early brain injury in terms of neuroinflammation at cerebrospinal fluid concentrations one-tenth of the clinically achievable blood concentrations, associated with enhanced lymphatic drainage of hemoglobin.
Heart failure (HF) represents the final stage of cardiovascular disease progression, characterized by high morbidity and mortality. Pressure overload in HF activates the PI3K/AKT pathway, and prolonged activation leads to pathological cardiac hypertrophy. However, the mechanism underlying sustained PI3K/AKT activation in pressure overload-induced HF remains unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that miR-203 overexpression in transgenic mice counteracts cardiac dysfunction and pathological remodeling in HF, whereas miR-203 downregulation exacerbates HF. At the cellular level, miR-203 overexpression significantly reduces Angiotensin II (Ang II)-induced cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and injury, while miR-203 knockdown aggravates these effects. Mechanistically, miR-203 binds to the 3' untranslated region (3'UTR) of insulin-like growth factor binding protein 5 (IGFBP5) mRNA, inhibiting IGFBP5 protein expression, thereby suppressing PI3K/AKT signaling and mitigating cardiomyocyte hypertrophy. Furthermore, we demonstrate that fibronectin-1 (FN1) is a critical functional partner for IGFBP5, as knockdown of FN1 attenuates IGFBP5-induced PI3K/AKT activation and hypertrophy. This study is the first to elucidate the role and mechanism of miR-203 in regulating pressure overload-induced HF, offering a potential genetic tool for HF therapy.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.
Primary mitochondrial diseases (PMD) have limited disease-modifying therapies, currently applicable to only 3 of over 400 discrete gene disorders. Cycloheximide (CHX) is a global cytosolic translation inhibitor we previously reported to rescue PMD preclinical models, although its toxicity precluded clinical development. To identify specific mediators underlying CHX treatment benefit in PMD, SOMAscan-based proteomics was performed in complex I deficient and genetic disease fibroblast cell line models grown in galactose. Thrombopoietin (THPO) and insulin-like growth factor binding protein 5 (IGFBP5) were the only two differentially regulated proteins, together with ERK/MAPK pathway dysregulation, identified upon CHX treatment in PMD versus healthy control cells. THPO inhibition by siRNA or pharmacologic approaches rescued stress-induced viability loss in patient fibroblasts having diverse PMD gene etiologies, and significantly improved mitochondrial stress, linear growth, and neuromuscular function in a classical ndufs2 -/- C. elegans model. IGFBP5 overexpression by lentiviral or mRNA approaches rescued cell viability across distinct PMD gene etiologies, as did IGF1 pharmacologic inhibition across both PMD mutant and C. elegans models. MAPK pharmacologic inhibition rescued multiple distinct complex I disease cells' survival, as well as mitochondrial stress in SLC25A46 -/- C. elegans . Combination therapies targeting multiple of these glucose signaling pathway proteins, together with glucose and N-acetylcysteine, yielded superior therapeutic benefit in complex I disease cell and C. elegans models. Additionally, single or combined pharmacologic inhibition of THPO or IGF1 significantly enhanced primary and metastatic osteosarcoma cell death. Collectively, targeted small molecule and genetic modulation of THPO, IGF1, or MAPK recapitulated the significant therapeutic benefit of CHX in PMD, while avoiding global translation inhibition. These novel PMD therapies likely confer benefit by attenuating MAPK-driven autophagy and potentially promoting noncanonical glucose uptake, improving cellular energy balance. Overall, these glucose signaling cellular pathway targets hold broad therapeutic promise for PMD patients, warranting further clinical research development.
The extracellular matrix (ECM) plays a pivotal role in shaping tumor behavior by providing biochemical and biophysical cues to cancer cells. Traditional 2D culture systems fail to recapitulate this complexity, and in vivo systems do not readily allow for interrogation of how individual ECM components influence tumor cell behavior. Here, we introduce a fully synthetic, tunable three-dimensional (3D) hydrogel that mimics a soft tissue tumor microenvironment (TME) to enable mechanistic studies of ECM-tumor interactions. The hydrogel features a proteolytically degradable poly(ethylene glycol) base network functionalized with integrin-binding peptides derived from ECM components collagen I and fibronectin. To model metastatic ECM and further tune the hydrogel, we incorporated a tenascin-C (TNC)-derived peptide. To study the impact of these tunable ECM parameters on cancer cell behavior, we encapsulated Ewing sarcoma (EwS) cells within the hydrogels. EwS is an aggressive bone and soft tissue tumor that commonly metastasizes to lung. Our studies demonstrated matrix-dependent growth and phenotypic variation of EwS cells. Specifically, the TNC peptide drove divergent tumor behaviors and induced cell state changes consistent with alterations induced by the native TNC protein. To facilitate downstream functional assays, the hydrogel incorporates sortase-degradable crosslinkers that enable non-perturbative recovery of encapsulated cells. This platform provides a reductionist and reproducible model for studying the ECM's role in cancer cell biology while addressing long-standing challenges in polymeric hydrogel degradation and cell retrieval. Collectively, this work establishes a biomaterials-based framework to dissect EwS tumor-ECM interactions in a controllable 3D microenvironment. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Engineered biomaterials to model Ewing sarcoma (EwS) have been previously employed to study metastasis to the bone. While important efforts, platforms to study EwS metastasis in lung - the most common site of metastasis - have not been developed. Here, we introduce a user-programmable biomaterial designed to mimic the environment of soft tissue metastases. The platform features several attributes: 1) it is mechanically matched to lung tissue; 2) it is readily functionalized with extracellular matrix protein-derived peptides (e.g., Tenascin-C); 3) encapsulated cells can be retrieved in a "biologically invisible" manner via sortase-mediated gel degradation, enabling expanded downstream analysis. This platform provides a powerful, reproducible tool to dissect tumor behavior and identify new targets for cancer therapy.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Purpose: The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that Tenascin-C (TNC) levels increase following thoracic radiotherapy (RT), and that elevated serum TNC levels are associated with corresponding increases in myocardial TNC expression in histopathological specimens, supporting its role as a potential biomarker of radiation-induced cardiotoxicity. Methods: Blood and cardiac tissue samples from rats 8 weeks after thoracic radiotherapy were analyzed to evaluate changes in serum TNC levels and myocardial TNC expression, and their association with radiation exposure. Male Wistar rats were randomized to a single 12-Gy dose of mediastinal irradiation or sham irradiation. Serum TNC levels were assessed with rat ELISA kits. Myocardial TNC expression was assessed using immunohistochemistry, and staining intensity was semi-quantitatively graded by blinded observers. Results: Serum Tenascin-C (TNC) levels were elevated in RT only group compared to control (p < 0.001), paralleled by a marked increase in myocardial TNC expression (p < 0.001). A consistent concordance between circulating and tissue-level TNC was observed, supporting its potential as a biomarker of radiation-induced cardiac injury. Conclusions: Significant associations were observed between radiation exposure and both serum Tenascin-C levels and myocardial Tenascin-C expression, demonstrating a concordance between circulating and tissue findings and supporting Tenascin-C as a promising biomarker of radiation-induced cardiotoxicity.
The underlying neurobiological mechanisms of chronic alcohol consumption, particularly neuroinflammation and immune system dysregulation, have been extensively studied in recent years. In this process, the identification of objective biomarkers that can predict treatment response and enable personalized medicine approaches is of critical importance. This study aimed to evaluate the potential predictive value of tenascin-C (TNC), an extracellular matrix protein, neopterin, a marker of cellular immune activation and pro-inflammatory cytokines interferon-gamma (IFN-γ), tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-6 (IL-6), during the treatment process for alcohol use disorder (AUD). This prospective observational cohort study included 30 patients admitted to an AUD treatment centre and 31 healthy controls. Serum TNC, IL-6, TNF-α and IFN-γ levels were measured using the ELISA method. Clinical outcomes were assessed using the SCL-90-R and API-K scales. Serum samples were collected from patients at admission and on the 7th day of detoxification treatment. Baseline serum TNC levels in the alcohol group (131.78 ± 50.92 ng/mL) were significantly higher than in the healthy control group (63.92 ± 23.85 ng/mL). In the alcohol group, TNC (p = 0.007) and AST (p = 0.025) levels decreased significantly, while vitamin B12 (p = 0.002) and platelet count (p = 0.012) increased. No significant difference was observed in neopterin and cytokine levels (TNF-α, IL-6 and IFN-γ) between baseline and follow-up measurements. Clinical assessments showed significant improvements in depression (p = 0.041), anxiety (p = 0.014) and total symptom scores (p = 0.026) on the SCL-90-R scale. ROC analysis showed that a reduction of 28.22% or more in TNC predicted clinical improvement with an overall accuracy rate of 73.33%.© 2026 The Author(s). Addiction Biology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Society for the Study of Addiction.
BackgroundThe extracellular matrix (ECM) supports synaptic connections. Breakdown of ECM net component perineuronal nets (PNN) loses synaptic plasticity and causes the symptoms of neurological disorder like Alzheimer's diseases (AD).ObjectiveThis study analyzed PNN proteins and Tenascin-C (TNC), in the blood of AD, mild cognitive impairment (MCI) patients, and geriatric controls (GC), with correlation with tau and p-tau levels.MethodsThis case control study included 77 AD, 53 MCI patients, and 51 GC. Serum PNN and TNC levels were measured by surface plasmon resonance (SPR) method and validated by western blot. Statistical analyses included Kruskal-Wallis, logistic regression, Spearman correlation and receiver operating curve.ResultsPNN proteins and TNC were significantly elevated in AD compared to MCI and GC. Aggrecan and versican showed strong discriminatory power for AD from MCI, while TNC distinguished MCI from GC, indicating its potential for early detection of cognitive decline. Higher protein levels correlated with lower cognitive scores. Western blot result was consistent with SPR findings.ConclusionsThese results emphasize the significance of ECM proteins as biomarkers for cognitive impairments, showcasing their diverse diagnostic capabilities for AD. These findings provide further support for the involvement of PNN proteins in the pathophysiology of AD during early stage.
DOX, an anthracycline antibiotic, is extensively utilized in the treatment of various solid tumors and hematological malignancies but is constrained by its cumulative cardiotoxicity. PDA has emerged as a promising drug delivery platform owing to its superior biocompatibility, pH-responsive drug release capability, and multifunctional surface properties.The FH peptide, which specifically targets Tenascin-C overexpressed in DOX-injured myocardium, offers a promising strategy to enhance cardiac-specific drug accumulation.In vitro experiments were performed using primary neonatal mouse cardiomyocytes. Cardioprotective efficacy was evaluated in an acute DOX-induced myocardial injury mouse model, and antitumor activity was assessed in a 4T1 tumor-bearing mouse model.Our comprehensive analysis, including spectroscopic methods and physicochemical characterization, confirmed the successful integration of Dex and FH onto the PDA platform. Both in vitro and in vivo studies demonstrated that PDA-Dex/FH effectively treats DOX-induced cardiotoxicity, with FH incorporation enhancing cardiac targeting while preserving DOX's antitumor efficacy.we demonstrated that, under the experimental conditions of this study, PDA-Dex/FH not only markedly mitigates myocardial injury with enhanced cardiac accumulation but also retains the chemotherapeutic efficacy of doxorubicin, thereby.© 2026. The Author(s).
Actinic cheilitis is a precursor to lip squamous cell carcinoma. How ultraviolet-induced stromal degeneration relates to invasion-related extracellular matrix markers remains unclear. This study investigated basophilic degeneration of collagen, solar elastosis, fibronectin, tenascin-C, and podoplanin in both lesions.Specimens of actinic cheilitis (n = 28) and lip squamous cell carcinoma (n = 28) were analyzed. Collagen degeneration, elastosis, and the immunoexpression of fibronectin, tenascin-C, and podoplanin were quantified using digital image analysis. Associations were evaluated using mixed-effects models.Collagen degeneration and elastosis areas were significantly greater in actinic cheilitis (p < 0.001). Lip squamous cell carcinoma exhibited higher stromal fibronectin and podoplanin (p < 0.001), whereas epithelial tenascin-C was higher in actinic cheilitis (p < 0.001). Notably, in both lesions, areas with pronounced collagen degeneration and elastosis were inversely associated with the expression of these invasion-related proteins.Actinic cheilitis features marked actinic stromal degeneration, whereas lip squamous cell carcinoma exhibits tumor-driven extracellular matrix remodeling with increased invasion-related markers. These findings highlight distinct stromal microenvironment profiles associated with pre-neoplastic and neoplastic lip lesions.© 2026 The Author(s). Oral Diseases published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The aim of this study was to investigate the potential reproductive toxicity of bisphenol S (BPS) and the related molecular mechanisms through a network toxicology approach. By utilizing various databases, including the Comparative Toxicogenomics Database (CTD), GeneCards, Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM), the Pharmacogenomics Knowledgebase (PharmGKB), and the Therapeutics Target Database (TTD), and limiting the species to Homo sapiens, we confirmed 45 potential targets related to both BPS exposure and reproductive injury. Additional analysis via STRING and Cytoscape pinpointed 4 key targets: AKT serine/threonine kinase 1 (AKT1), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-1-beta (IL-1β), and tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα). Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses indicated that the principal targets of BPS-mediated reproductive damage are mainly involved in oxidative stress signaling and cell secretion pathways. Because PI3K/AKT regulates the secretion of IL-6, IL-1β, and TNFα, we focus on AKT1 in the molecular docking experiments. Unexpectedly, we found a strong interaction between BPS and AKT1. Furthermore, the results suggested that women may be more susceptible to BPS-mediated reproductive toxicity than men. This study provides a theoretical framework for understanding the molecular mechanisms through which BPS causes reproductive toxicity and lays the foundation for preventing and treating reproductive disorders related to BPS exposure. In addition, our network toxicology-based method can accelerate the discovery of pathways involved in the toxic effects of environmental chemicals that are currently unknown.© 2026 The Author(s). Pediatric Discovery published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Children's Hospital of Chongqing Medical University.
A large number of functional disorders and uncomfortable symptoms often remain following ischemic stroke (IS). Existing drug therapy is not ideal for the direct improvement of symptoms, which often leads to poor patient compliance with physical rehabilitation therapy. Buyang Huanwu Decoction (BYHWD) is a famous prescription that is effective in treating IS, especially during the sequela stage of IS. We analyzed the therapeutic mechanism of BYHWD through network pharmacology. This study aims to investigate the potential active ingredients, targets, and signaling pathways of BYHWD for the treatment of IS, utilizing network pharmacology and molecular docking technology. The active ingredients of 7 Chinese herbs in BYHWD were obtained from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology and HERB databases, and IS-related disease targets were searched in the DisGeNET, GeneCards, and OMIM databases. The protein-protein interaction network was constructed using the STRING database and analyzed by Cytoscape 3.10.2 software. Additionally, the target genes were uploaded to the Database for Annotation, Visualization, and Integrated Discovery website for Gene Ontology alongside Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analyses. With the assistance of AutoDockTools and PyMOL software (Schrödinger, Inc.), a validation of molecular docking results and a visualization of the results were performed. The results showed that there were 190 intersection targets between the active drug components and IS, corresponding to 61 active components, among which the top 5 target genes were tumor suppressor protein 53, Jun proto-oncogene, AKT serine/threonine kinase 1, mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, and estrogen receptor alpha. The PI3K-Akt signaling pathway is one of the top 10 pathways. The molecular docking results indicated that most of the top 5 targets had good affinities for the 8 core compounds. This computational analysis suggests that BYHWD may treat IS through multiple targets and pathways. It may play a neuroprotective role by regulating the inflammatory response, oxidative stress, apoptosis, autophagy, and vascular endothelial homeostasis. The identification of core effective components provides a theoretical foundation and candidate compounds for further investigation into new drugs for the treatment of sequelae after IS.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42443498 is a review article
Merkel cell carcinoma is an aggressive neuroendocrine skin malignancy rarely reported in non-domestic species.A cutaneous nodule from an endangered Caucasian squirrel (Sciurus anomalus pallescens) was examined using histopathology, immunohistochemistry, imaging mass cytometry, spatial transcriptomics (10× Visium) and metagenomic sequencing.Histology revealed a high-grade neuroendocrine carcinoma with frequent mitoses (52 per 2.37 mm2) and necrosis. Tumour cells were positive for cytokeratin 20 (paranuclear dot pattern), synaptophysin and chromogranin A, with a high Ki-67 index (68%). Spatial analyses delineated a distinct tumour core and combined invasive front and stromal compartments, revealing upregulation of neuroendocrine (atonal basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor 1 and neurogenic differentiation factor 1) and proliferative (marker of proliferation Ki-67) programmes, and activation of phosphoinositide 3-kinase-AKT serine/threonine kinase 1-mechanistic target of rapamycin and mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways. No evidence of Merkel cell polyomavirus was found. The tumour microenvironment was immune-excluded, with programmed-death ligand 1 expression on ~22% of tumour cells and CD8+ T cells restricted to the stroma.This study provides a comprehensive methodological framework for high-resolution tumour profiling in conservation pathology and highlights the emergence of neoplasia in threatened wildlife.© 2026 Peyman Mohammadzadeh et al.
Given the limited efficacy of existing therapies for metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC), there is an urgent need for novel strategies. Prohibitin 1 (PHB1) is significantly upregulated in CRC, where it plays a critical role in oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) to meet the heightened energy demands of rapid tumor growth and metastasis. Here, we discover that PHB1 interacts with NADH: ubiquinone oxidoreductase core subunit S1 (NDUFS1), a subunit of the OXPHOS complex, thereby modulating mitochondrial respiratory function. Based on these insights, we developed TD6, a highly potent and selective small-molecule inhibitor of PHB1. In a mouse model of colorectal cancer pulmonary metastasis (CRPM), TD6 treatment significantly prolonged animal survival. Mechanistically, TD6 binds to PHB1 and induces a conformational change in the PHB complex, which reduces PHB-mediated stabilization of NDUFS1. Disruption of the PHB-NDUFS1 interaction promotes NDUFS1 degradation via the lysosomal pathway, leading to impaired activity of mitochondrial complex I (MCI) and reduced OXPHOS function. In summary, PHB1 maintains MCI stability and OXPHOS activity through its interaction with NDUFS1. By targeting PHB1, TD6 effectively disrupts this regulatory axis, demonstrating therapeutic potential against CRPM. This study presents a novel drug candidate and a theoretical foundation for PHB1-based interventions targeting cancer energy metabolism.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Sijunzi decoction (SJZD) is a traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) commonly used for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), but its mechanisms remain unclear. This study investigates its molecular basis using network pharmacology and molecular docking.Active compounds and targets of SJZD were identified via Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology (TCMSP) Database and Analysis Platform, and PDAC-related targets were retrieved from Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM) and GeneCards. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks, Gene Ontology (GO)/Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment, and tissue distribution analyses were conducted. Molecular docking evaluated binding affinities between compounds and targets. The anti-PDAC effects of SJZD were evaluated in vitro using human pancreatic cancer cell lines (CFPAC-1 and MiaPaCa-2) and in vivo using a patient-derived xenograft (PDX) mouse model.SJZD comprises 131 compounds and 260 targets, with key targets such as AKT serine/threonine kinase 1 (AKT1), BCL2 associated agonist of cell death (BAD), BCL2 apoptosis regulator (BCL2), and tumor protein p53 (TP53) identified through PPI analysis. Enrichment analyses highlighted the phosphatidylinositide 3-kinases (PI3K)/protein Kinase B (AKT)/mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase (mTOR) and apoptosis pathways as primary therapeutic mechanisms. SJZD exhibited cytotoxic effects against PDAC cells in vitro and suppressed tumor growth in vivo, with mechanistic analyses confirming its regulatory effects on the PI3K/AKT/mTOR and apoptosis pathways. Molecular docking revealed strong binding affinities, particularly for compounds targeting estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) and estrogen receptor 2 (ESR2). These findings suggest that SJZD exerts anti-PDAC effects via multi-target modulation, primarily through inhibition of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling axis, induction of apoptosis and autophagy, and anti-inflammatory activity. The involvement of classic compounds supports the rationale of its traditional use, while experimental validation provides a mechanistic foundation for future clinical development.This study clarifies the active components, targets, and mechanisms of SJZD in treating PDAC, offering insights into the therapeutic potential of TCM.
Due to the increasing pressure of modern society, premature ovarian failure (POF) has become a widespread issue in women. POF not only impacts women's fertility but also heightens the risk of osteoporosis and cardiovascular diseases. Oviductus Ranae (OR) is a natural product that is used as medicine and food to exert "estrogen-like effects." Previous studies have reported that the compound improves follicle growth, which may be beneficial for POF. Thus, an experiment was designed to explore OR's positive effects on POF rats. POF rat models were established by intraperitoneal injection of cyclophosphamide (CTX), and OR was orally administered to the rats. Subsequently, serum estrogen and gonadotropin levels were measured by radioimmunoassay. Uterine status, endometrial epithelial thickness, and follicle numbers at different stages in ovaries were analyzed by H&E staining, and follicle atresia by TUNEL staining. Western blot was used to detect the expression levels of key proteins in the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/AKT serine/threonine kinase 1 (Akt) signaling pathway, as well as B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) and Bcl-2-associated X protein (Bax) in ovarian tissues. The results showed that OR administration to POF rats alleviated estrous cycle disorder, increased estrogen levels (p < 0.05), decreased gonadotropin levels (p < 0.05), mitigated uterine atrophy, increased endometrial epithelial thickness (p < 0.01), ovarian weight (p < 0.05), secondary and Graafian follicle numbers (p < 0.05), while reducing secondary and Graafian follicle atresia rate (p < 0.05). These beneficial effects may be attributed to OR-mediated upregulation of the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway and modulation of the Bcl-2/Bax apoptotic axis in ovarian tissue. In conclusion, OR can improve the follicular condition in ovaries and relieve symptoms in POF rats.© 2026 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
A key challenge in structure-based drug design is generating three-dimensional molecules while preserving essential protein-ligand interactions. We propose DiffPharma, a structure-based pharmacophore modeling framework based on a conditional diffusion model, to generate molecules that satisfy specified interaction constraints. The proposed method incorporates a semantic fusion architecture that integrates multiple interaction-specific neural networks, each designed to capture distinct molecular interactions such as hydrogen bonds and hydrophobic interactions. Experimental results demonstrate that DiffPharma achieves a residue-level interaction similarity of up to 0.9, significantly outperforming baseline models. To assess the method's generalizability, ligands were generated for AKT serine/threonine kinase 1 and serine β-lactamase, successfully preserving key interaction features. The effectiveness of the method is demonstrated through a practical case study targeting the SARS-CoV-2 main protease. Molecular dynamics simulations indicate that the generated molecules maintain both structural stability and key interactions comparable to those of a bioactive reference ligand. In addition, the molecular mechanics generalized Born surface area (MM/GBSA) calculations based on MD trajectories suggest that several generated molecules may exhibit relatively favorable binding tendencies compared with the reference. The implementation of the DiffPharma, including code and an execution environment on Google Colab, is available under the MIT license at GitHub: https://github.com/sekijima-lab/DiffPharma .© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aimed to explore the core active ingredients and potential molecular mechanisms of Erjing Pills, a prescription in the classic work of Traditional Chinese Medicine, "Shengji Zonglu," in the treatment of leukotrichia by utilizing network pharmacology and biomolecular docking techniques. The chemical components and potential targets of Chinese herbal medicines were analyzed through databases such as the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology Database. The targets related to leukotrichia were collected using GeneCards. The intersection targets were obtained using RStudio. The protein-protein interaction (PPI) network map and the "drug-component-target-disease" visualization network were generated using Cytoscape and STRING to screen the core components and key targets. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analyses were carried out using the Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery and RStudio. Finally, molecular docking verification was performed by AutoDock and PyMOL (Schrödinger LLC). The key active ingredients of Erjing Pills in the treatment of leukotrichia are β-sitosterol, quercetin, baicalein, and stigmasterol. The top 5 PPI core target proteins, in order, are AKT serine/threonine kinase 1, interleukin 6, tumor protein p53, cysteine-aspartic acid protease 3, and interleukin 1 beta. The Gene Ontology enrichment analysis suggests that the biological processes mainly include responses to exogenous stimuli, membrane rafts, and DNA-binding transcription factor binding. The Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathways involve signal pathways such as lipid and atherosclerosis, hepatitis B, Kaposi sarcoma virus infection, chemical carcinogenesis, and human cytomegalovirus infection. The molecular docking results indicate that most of the main active ingredients in Erjing Pills have relatively stable binding activities with the key targets, such as AKT serine/threonine kinase 1, interleukin 6, tumor protein p53, cysteine-aspartic acid protease 3, and interleukin 1 beta, in the PPI network. The active ingredients of Erjing Pills may interfere with the pathological process of leukotrichia by regulating key targets and signal pathways. This study provides a theoretical basis for the clinical application of Erjing Pills and indicates the direction for subsequent experimental research.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
To evaluate the associations between transcription factor (TF)-defined molecular lineages and the clinical characteristics of pituitary neuroendocrine tumors (PitNETs).A retrospective cohort analysis was performed in 274 patients who underwent extra-pseudocapsular transsphenoidal resection. Tumors were classified by TF-defined lineage and invasion grade (0-3) and Knosp score. Group differences were tested, and predictors of gross total resection (GTR) were examined using hierarchical multivariable logistic regression.TF-defined lineage classification improved diagnostic precision. Among tumors with an immunonegative hormone profile, 74.7% received a definitive lineage assignment. The pituitary transcription factor 1-growth hormone/prolactin (PIT1-GH/PRL) subgroup had the highest incidence and grade of invasion; SRY-box transcription factor 2 (SOX2) positivity was most frequent in this subgroup (41.7%), which also exhibited the lowest GTR rate (58.3%). SOX2-positive tumors were associated with significantly higher preoperative adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) (median: 38.80 vs. 31.60 pg/mL, P = 0.032) and GH (median: 1.12 vs. 0.43 ng/mL, P = 0.046) levels. SOX2 positivity was 20.5% in multilineage tumors and 20.0% in the recurrent cohort (n = 20). Compared with Trouillas grade alone, the combination of invasion grade and intraoperative features (capsule status and vascularity) significantly improved the ability to predict GTR (AUC, 0.866 vs. 0.795; ΔAUC = 0.071; DeLong 95% CI, 0.022-0.120; P = 0.005).The 2022 WHO TF-defined lineage system improves diagnostic precision and facilitates the interpretation of PitNET differentiation and molecular pathology. Tumors in the PIT1-GH/PRL subgroup demonstrate more aggressive invasive features. SOX2 positivity was relatively frequent in multilineage tumors, whereas the observation in recurrent cases was limited by the small exploratory cohort and requires validation in larger longitudinal studies.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to the Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is a neuroendocrine skin tumor that is frequently driven by integration of Merkel cell polyomavirus (MCPyV). In MCC, the MCPyV genome is truncated, but expression of the viral tumor antigens, truncated large tumor antigen (LTT) and small tumor antigen (sT), is maintained and drives uncontrolled proliferation. We introduced constitutive expression of the MCPyV T antigens (TAs) into primary mouse dermal fibroblasts (MDFs) to determine whether these cells are susceptible to MCPyV-driven transformation. TA expression alone in MDFs induced key MCC markers, cytokeratin-20 (CK20) and Sry-box transcription factor 2 (SOX2), and promoted anchorage-independent growth indicative of cellular transformation. Subcutaneous implantation of TA-transformed fibroblasts produced high-grade MCC-like tumors that grew persistently in immunodeficient NSG mice but not in immunocompetent C57BL/6 mice. Serial in vivo passaging of the tumor cell line enhanced tumor growth, reduced expression of p53-target genes and MHC-1, and was accompanied by a shift in T antigen isoform expression, with decreased LTT and increased sT expression. Our data demonstrate that MCPyV-driven tumors acquire immune-evasive adaptions during tumor progression in vivo and suggest that the anti-tumor immune response exerts selective pressure in MCC that favors expression of sT rather than LTT. The model established in this study provides a unique platform for studying evolution of MCPyV-driven tumors under immune pressure and identifying mechanisms of immune evasion in MCC that could be used to develop new therapeutic strategies.MCPyV tumor antigen expression transforms mouse dermal fibroblasts to generate MCC-like tumors. Serial in vivo passaging reveals tumor evolution under immune pressure, providing a model to study immune evasion mechanisms in MCC.
Diabetes mellitus impairs bone metabolism through chronic hyperglycemia, oxidative stress, and inflammation, leading to reduced osteoblast activity and downregulation of key pluripotency genes such as Octamer-binding transcription factor 4 (OCT4), Nanog homeobox (NANOG), SRY-box transcription factor 2 (SOX2), and Reduced expression protein 1 (REX1).The present study investigated whether the timing of aerobic exercise (morning vs. evening) influences the expression of pluripotency genes in the bone tissue of diabetic mice.Eighteen male NMRI mice were assigned to healthy control, diabetic control, or diabetic exercise groups. Diabetes was induced using a high-fat diet combined with low-dose streptozotocin. Aerobic training was performed for eight weeks at either ZT3 (morning) or ZT15 (evening), five sessions per week, at 50-60% Vmax. Blood glucose, insulin, HOMA-IR, and maximum running speed were assessed, and gene expression in bone tissue was measured using qRT-PCR. Data were analyzed using one-way ANOVA with Tukey post hoc testing (p < 0.05).Diabetic mice exhibited significant increases in glucose, insulin, and HOMA-IR, along with marked reductions in pluripotency gene expression, particularly at ZT3. Aerobic exercise significantly improved metabolic parameters and partially restored gene expression, with the greatest enhancement observed at ZT15. SOX2 and REX1 showed the most robust recovery under evening training conditions.The findings indicate that circadian timing modulates the beneficial effects of aerobic exercise on pluripotency gene expression in diabetic bone tissue. Evening exercise (ZT15) exerts superior restorative effects, suggesting that chronobiology aligned training may serve as an effective strategy for improving bone regenerative potential in diabetes.Copyright: © 2026 Janbozorgi et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
The loss of SOX2+GJA1- lens epithelial stem cells, along with a decrease in sphere-forming ability, was observed in the central zone of cataractous lenses. Nuclear localization of Yes-associated protein (YAP) has been associated with stemness in various tissues, and its conditional knockout was reported to develop cataract in mice. This study aims to investigate the expression of YAP and SOX2, along with other YAP signaling genes, in the anterior human lens epithelium of normal and cataractous lenses.Whole mounts of human anterior lens epithelium from normal and cataract lenses were immunostained for SOX2, YAP, and α-SMA, followed by confocal microscopic analysis. Further, the expression of YAP signaling genes was analyzed by Western blot.Nuclear expression of SOX2 and YAP was identified in the central (7.25 ± 3.63% of cells) and equatorial (9.15 ± 6.09% of cells) zones of normal lens epithelium. Such cells were absent in cataractous lenses along with a significant reduction in nuclear YAP expression. Western blot analysis confirmed the increased pYAP/YAP ratio and decreased MST2 and LATS1 in cataractous lens compared to normal lens epithelium. Furthermore, α-SMA expression was elevated in cataractous lens epithelium, indicating its association with cataract development.The absence of SOX2+YAP+ cells in cataractous lenses indicated the possible association between stem cells and cataract development. Further studies are essential to elucidate the role of YAP signaling in the pathogenesis of cataract.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) and chronic airway obstruction frequently coexist and are associated with poorer clinical outcomes. Although airway obstruction is recognized as a risk factor for adverse prognosis in LUAD, the molecular alterations associated with airway obstruction in LUAD remain incompletely understood. Most previous studies have been confounded by smoking-related molecular changes.To identify proteins associated with airway obstruction status in non-smoking patients with LUAD using a proteomics-based approach.Proteomic analysis was performed on paired tumor and adjacent normal tissues obtained from 12 non-smoking LUAD patients, including 6 patients with airway obstruction and 6 without airway obstruction. A four-group design combined with a three-step intersection strategy was used to identify candidate proteins associated with both airway obstruction status and tumor-related alterations. Functional enrichment, protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis, Western blot validation, correlation with pulmonary function, and transcriptomic validation using The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database were subsequently performed.A total of 2036 differentially expressed proteins were identified in tumor tissues between airway obstruction and non-obstruction groups. The three-step intersection strategy identified 15 candidate proteins. PPI network analysis and expression-direction consistency screening further identified four core proteins: Cystatin B (CSTB), Bone Morphogenetic Protein Receptor Type 1A (BMPR1A), Complement C4B (C4B), and Potassium Channel Tetramerization Domain Containing 10 (KCTD10). Western blot validation supported the differential expression patterns of these four core proteins in tumor tissues. Functional enrichment analysis indicated involvement in DNA damage repair, immune regulation, and cellular proliferation pathways. CSTB expression was positively correlated with FEV1%, whereas BMPR1A expression showed a negative correlation. TCGA analyses demonstrated that expression of these proteins' corresponding genes was associated with LUAD prognosis, and C4B expression was significantly associated with tumor stage.This study identified CSTB, BMPR1A, C4B, and KCTD10 as proteins associated with airway obstruction status in non-smoking LUAD patients. These findings provide preliminary insights into molecular differences related to airway obstruction in LUAD and generate candidate biomarkers for future validation studies. Western blot validation provided additional experimental support for the proteomic findings. Larger multicenter cohorts and functional experiments are required to clarify the biological and clinical significance of these proteins.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Federación de Sociedades Españolas de Oncología (FESEO).
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality, and therapeutic resistance limits durable responses. We investigated the antitumor activity of CDDO-TFEA, a synthetic trifluoroethyl amide derivative of 2-cyano-3,12-dioxoolean-1,9-dien-28-oic acid, in NSCLC models.A549 and H1299 cells were treated with CDDO-TFEA and evaluated using MTT assays, Annexin V/7-aminoactinomycin D flow cytometry, tumorsphere and tube-formation assays, immunoblotting, and A549 xenograft experiments.CDDO-TFEA decreased cell viability in a dose-dependent manner and induced apoptosis, as indicated by increased Annexin V positivity, PARP cleavage, cleaved caspase-3 expression, and TUNEL positivity. At 200 nM, CDDO-TFEA significantly suppressed tumorsphere formation in both cell lines and reduced CD133, octamer-binding transcription factor 4, SRY-box transcription factor 2, and vascular endothelial growth factor expression. Because only A549 cells formed tube-like networks, angiogenesis-related phenotypes were evaluated in A549 cells and were markedly inhibited by CDDO-TFEA. Mechanistically, CDDO-TFEA increased extracellular signal-regulated kinase phosphorylation, whereas MEK inhibition by U0126 or trametinib partially attenuated CDDO-TFEA-induced apoptosis and the suppression of tumorsphere formation, tube-like network formation, and stemness- and angiogenesis-related marker expression. In vivo, systemic CDDO-TFEA administration dose-dependently inhibited xenograft tumor growth.CDDO-TFEA exerts antitumor activity in NSCLC by inducing apoptosis and suppressing stemness-associated and angiogenesis-related phenotypes, partly through mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase signaling. These findings support further preclinical development of CDDO-TFEA in NSCLC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cancer Stem Cells (CSCs) are the core drivers of esophageal cancer recurrence, metastasis, and treatment resistance, and their metabolic reprogramming characteristics provide an important entry point for targeted therapy. This study aimed to explore the role and regulatory mechanism of HACD1 (3-Hydroxyacyl-CoA Dehydrogenase 1), a key enzyme in lipid metabolism, in maintaining the stemness of esophageal cancer. Using the Patient-Derived Xenograft (PDX) cell line HD-12 and laboratory cell lines TE-1 and KYSE-150, a Tumoursphere (TS) stemness enrichment model was constructed, and systematic analysis was conducted by combining quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction (qPCR), transcriptome sequencing, lipidomics, functional experiments, and animal models. The results showed that the upregulation of stemness markers (Oct4(Octamer-binding transcription factor 4), Sox2 (SRY-box transcription factor 2), etc.) in PDX-derived HD-12 tumourspheres was significantly higher than that in laboratory cell lines, with unique transcriptomic characteristics. Lipidomics confirmed that lipid metabolites such as Triglycerides (TG) and Long-Chain Fatty Acids (LCFA) were significantly enriched in tumourspheres. The HACD (3-Hydroxyacyl-CoA Dehydrogenase) family was specifically highly expressed in stem cells, and the enzymatic activity of HACD1 (3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydratase 1) was positively correlated with the stemness phenotype. HACD1 knockdown significantly inhibited esophageal cancer tumoursphere formation, cell migration, and in vivo tumourigenic ability, and downregulated the expression of stemness markers; exogenous supplementation of Docosahexaenoic Acid (DA) could reverse this inhibitory effect in a concentration-dependent manner. Metabolic analysis indicated that tumoursphere cells rely on both glycolysis and lipid oxidation for energy supply and possess metabolic flexibility, and blocking a single pathway cannot effectively inhibit stemness. This study is the first to confirm that HACD1 maintains the stemness phenotype of esophageal cancer by regulating lipid metabolism. The PDX model exhibits a unique stemness regulatory pattern closer to clinical practice, providing new molecular targets and experimental basis for the metabolic targeted therapy of esophageal cancer.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Gastric cancer (GC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, and the molecular mechanisms driving its progression are incompletely understood. Agmatinase (AGMAT) has recently emerged as a candidate oncogene in several malignancies; however, its functional role in GC has not been characterized. In this study, we investigated AGMAT's role in GC, focusing on its effects on cell proliferation, invasion, stemness, and the underlying signaling mechanisms. Using GC cell lines AGS and HGC-27, we demonstrate that AGMAT overexpression promotes proliferation and invasion of GC cells and enhances sphere formation, a hallmark of cancer stem-like properties. Conversely, AGMAT knockdown via shRNA markedly suppressed cell proliferative, invasive, and sphere-forming capacities. Mechanistically, AGMAT activates the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (AKT) signaling pathway, and pharmacological reactivation of this pathway using 740 Y-P rescued the proliferative, invasive, and stemness deficits caused by AGMAT depletion. In vivo studies using nude mice further corroborated our in vitro findings; AGMAT silencing led to a significant reduction in tumor volume and weight, accompanied by decreased expression of the proliferation marker Ki-67 and the stemness markers octamer-binding transcription factor 4 (OCT4) and SRY-box transcription factor 2 (SOX2) in AGMAT-silenced tumors. Furthermore, analysis of The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) data revealed a correlation between elevated AGMAT expression and poor patient prognosis, reinforcing AGMAT's clinical significance in GC progression and patient outcomes. Collectively, our findings identify AGMAT as a novel oncogene that promotes GC cell proliferation, invasion, and stemness through PI3K/AKT pathway activation. These results suggest that AGMAT may serve as a potential therapeutic target and prognostic biomarker for GC.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Does 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate synthase 2 (PAPSS2)-mediated sulfation contribute to defective decidualization in patients with recurrent implantation failure (RIF), and what are the underlying mechanisms?Downregulation of PAPSS2 enhances the interaction between bone morphogenetic protein receptor type 1A (BMPR1A) and bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP2), as well as SMAD family member 1/5/9 (SMAD1/5/9)-dependent autophagic flux, thereby promoting decidualization and increasing the receptivity of endometrial stromal cells to trophoblast invasion.Decidualization is essential for embryo implantation and pregnancy maintenance, and impaired decidualization is considered a key pathological mechanism underlying RIF. Although protein tyrosine sulfation is a critical post-translational modification, its role in endometrial decidualization remains unclear.We integrated transcriptomic datasets, performed in vitro decidualization assays in immortalized human endometrial stromal cells (T-HESCs) and primary human endometrial stromal cells (hEnSCs), and established an artificial decidualization mouse model. Functional assays and molecular analyses were conducted between 2023 and 2026.Mid-secretory endometrial tissues were collected from patients with RIF and fertile controls. Decidualization was induced in T-HESCs and primary hEnSCs using dibutyryl-cAMP and progesterone. The effects of PAPSS2 knockdown or overexpression were assessed by RT-qPCR, Western blotting, immunoprecipitation, immunofluorescence, and in vitro implantation assays with BeWo spheroids. In vivo, an ovariectomized mouse model was used to evaluate decidualization under pharmacological modulation of BMP-SMAD signaling and autophagy.We found that sulfation levels were elevated in endometrial stromal cells from RIF patients. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that PAPSS2, a known sulfation-related gene, was consistently downregulated during decidualization. Mechanistically, PAPSS2 knockdown in endometrial stromal cells decreased BMPR1A sulfation, enhanced its binding affinity for BMP2, and activated the downstream SMAD1/5/9 signaling pathway. Functionally, the activation of this pathway promoted autophagy, thereby enhancing decidualization and increasing stromal cell receptivity to trophoblast invasion.Publicly available bulk transcriptomic datasets GSE75425 and GSE17504, together with the single-cell RNA-seq dataset GSE183837, were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database.Although our data support dysregulated sulfotyrosine levels and implicate the PAPSS2-BMPR1A sulfation axis in stromal decidualization in RIF, further studies with larger sample sizes are required to confirm their in vivo relevance.Our findings reveal a previously unrecognized mechanism in which the PAPSS2-BMPR1A sulfation axis fine-tunes BMP2/SMAD signaling and autophagy homeostasis to regulate decidualization. This study provides a molecular basis and highlights a potential therapeutic target for uterine factor-related infertility.This work was supported by the National Key Research and Development Program (No. 2025YFC2708000), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 82371647), the Science Foundation for Outstanding Youth of Liaoning Province (No. 2024JH3/50100023), and the Shenyang Young and Middle-aged Science and Technology Innovation Talents Support Program (No. RC210436).The authors declare no competing interests.N/A.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Biallelic isoleucyl-tRNA synthetase 1 (IARS1) variants are associated with an IARS1-related phenotype characterized by growth retardation, intellectual disability, muscular hypotonia, infantile hepatopathy, and interstitial lung disease. This rare, early-onset disorder is often lethal. Although several variants have been identified in recent years, their pathogenicity and underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. In this study, we generated Iars1Y148C/R444* compound heterozygous mice, which exhibited pulmonary alveolar proteinosis - like lesions, growth retardation, and muscular hypotonia. Lipid metabolomic profiling of these mice revealed dysregulation of cholesterol metabolism pathways. Furthermore, the Iars1 mutation increased surfactant deposition in alveolar macrophages by impairing lysosomal degradation and disrupting lysosome-autophagosome fusion. We also found that partial loss of IARS1 activity interfered with the post-translational processing of cathepsin Z by inhibiting its ubiquitin-mediated degradation. Importantly, exogenous expression of cathepsin Z improved surfactant clearance in macrophages with partial loss of Iars1 activity. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that partial loss of IARS1 activity induces lysosomal dysfunction in alveolar macrophages and promotes pulmonary surfactant accumulation in the alveoli, thereby contributing to the development of pulmonary alveolar proteinosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Sewage sludge represents a substantial reservoir of bioactive organic matter yet remains underutilized in high-value applications. Here, we developed an upcycling strategy that transforms sewage sludge into sludge-derived phytohormones (SPs) through alkaline thermal hydrolysis treatment (ATHT), enabling stress-resilient growth and biodiesel production of limnetic microalgae in seawater-containing wastewater. Under optimized ATHT conditions (160 °C, pH 12 and 120 min), organic matter was effectively solubilized, releasing 78 identifiable phytohormones including auxin, salicylic acid, cytokinin, and jasmonic acid, with total concentrations reaching 72,601.32 μg/L. Integrated FT-ICR MS and targeted metabolite analyses established precursor-intermediate-product relationships, demonstrating that phytohormones originated from the thermochemical conversion of sludge-derived proteins, lipids, and nucleic acids. Mechanistically, sludge macromolecules underwent depolymerization and reconstruction under thermal-alkaline conditions, producing phytohormone analogues through reactions including oxidative deamination, decarboxylation, hydroxylation, cyclization, and alkylation. Application of the SPs to Scenedesmus quadricauda cultivated in seawater-diluted liquid anaerobic digestate increased biomass production by 1.45-fold and lipid accumulation by 1.68-fold compared with controls. Transcriptomic analysis indicated that SPs activated pathways related to nutrient metabolism and photosynthetic carbon fixation, enhancing photosynthetic electron transport and energy supply. Simultaneously, SPs upregulated genes encoding acetyl-CoA carboxylase, fatty acid synthase, and diacylglycerol acyltransferase, channeling carbon flux toward lipid biosynthesis. Moreover, genes involved in antioxidant defense were downregulated, indicating mitigated oxidative stress. This work provides mechanistic insights into abiotic phytohormone formation from sludge and offers an integrated strategy linking sludge upcycling with microalgae-based biodiesel production.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Silicosis is a devastating occupational lung disease driven by chronic oxidative stress and the persistent accumulation of senescent cells. However, the metabolic mechanisms underlying silica-induced senescence and subsequent fibrotic remodeling remain elusive. Here, we identify fatty acid binding protein 5 (FABP5) as a central metabolic driver of silica-induced myofibroblast senescence. Intracellularly, FABP5 interacts with and shields fatty acid synthase (FASN) from ubiquitin-proteasomal degradation, disrupting lipid homeostasis and causing uncoupling protein 2 (UCP2)-dependent mitochondrial dysfunction and cellular senescence. Extracellularly, senescent fibroblasts secrete FABP5 as an unconventional senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) factor. This secreted FABP5 activates β-catenin signaling, creating a paracrine feed-forward loop that drives the activation of neighboring quiescent fibroblasts. Therapeutically, systemic silencing of FABP5 using lipid nanoparticles (siFabp5-LNPs) robustly attenuates cellular senescence, metabolic disruption, and fibrotic remodeling in young and aged mouse models of pulmonary fibrosis induced by silica dust. Collectively, our findings uncover a previously unrecognized FABP5/FASN/UCP2 metabolic-redox axis that drives stress-induced senescence. By linking intracellular mitochondrial dysfunction with extracellular pro-fibrotic signaling, FABP5 emerges as a highly promising therapeutic target and potential biomarker for silicosis and other oxidative stress-driven fibrotic diseases.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42548999 is a review article
Apis dorsata and Vespa sp. venoms represent underexplored Hymenopteran bioresources with potential chemical and peptide diversity relevant to antimicrobial, cytoregulatory, and enzyme-target discovery. This exploratory venomics study generated a molecular profile comprising 510 metabolite features and 118 peptides/proteins, including 29 curated metabolite annotations and seven venom-associated peptide/protein classes supported by spectral evidence, database matching, and literature-supported curation. Major metabolite classes included lipids, hydrocarbons, heterocyclic compounds, fatty acids, phenols, terpenoids, esters, and amino acid/peptide-related metabolites. Proteomic profiling identified melittin, apamin, phospholipase A2, hyaluronidase, lysozyme, chymotrypsin inhibitor, and Kazal-like proteins in A. dorsata, while comparative Vespa sp. proteomics revealed homology-supported PLA1/PLA2-like proteins, DPP4-like proteins, serpins, PNGase, and QPCT. Exploratory co-abundance mapping suggested possible relationships among antioxidant triterpenoids, immune-regulating enzymes, neuropeptides, and lipid-associated venom components. Docking indicated preliminary interactions of vorinostat with Histone Deacetylase (HDAC) and adipostatin derivatives with Fatty Acid Synthase (FASN). Overall, this study prioritizes putative bioactive metabolites, venom-associated proteins, and predicted peptide candidates for future biochemical and functional validation.© 2026 Wiley‐VHCA AG.
Neuroendocrine prostate cancer (NEPC) persists in a profoundly hypoxic microenvironment, yet the mechanisms enabling tumor adaptation to this metabolically challenging niche remain undefined. Here, we identify the lipid kinase PIKfyve as overexpressed in NEPC, functioning as a central node in a stress-adaptive lipid kinase axis that supports adaptation to persistent endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Mechanistically, NEPC requires PIKfyve-mediated lysosomal degradation and lipid recycling to maintain metabolic homeostasis under hypoxia. PIKfyve inhibition disrupts lysosomal function, exacerbates ER stress, and activates a compensatory sterol regulatory element-binding protein (SREBP)-dependent de novo lipogenesis program essential for NEPC survival. This stress-lipid axis creates a synthetic vulnerability between PIKfyve and fatty acid synthase (FASN), where dual inhibition synergistically amplifies ER stress, triggers the terminal unfolded protein response, and induces tumor cell death. These findings reveal a metabolic adaptation in NEPC and provide preclinical evidence that co-targeting PIKfyve and FASN can overcome hypoxia-associated stress adaptation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Lipid metabolic reprogramming is a hallmark of cancer, in which fatty acid synthesis is crucial for the rapid proliferation and metastasis of cancer cells. The p53-R280K mutation drives aggressive cancer, yet its role in fatty acid synthesis remains unclear.The CRISPR/CasRx technique was applied to knockdown endogenous mutant p53-R280K in MDA-MB-231 cells and wild-type p53 (WT-p53) in ZR75-1 cells. Luciferase reporter and ChIP assays demonstrated mutant p53-R280K binding to the FASN promoter and regulating its activity. Oil red O staining, flow cytometry, and triglyceride assays were used to determine the levels of lipid synthesis. Cell proliferation, wound healing and cell invasion assays were performed to detect the malignant phenotypes in vitro. Subcutaneous tumorigenesis and lung metastasis models of nude mice were established to validate tumor growth and metastasis in vivo.In this study, we reveal that p53-R280K hijacks the lipogenic transcription factor SREBP1 to form a transcriptional co-activation complex. This complex binds to and activates the fatty acid synthase (FASN) promoter, upregulating FASN expression. Enhanced FASN activity fuels de novo fatty acid synthesis, increasing lipid accumulation in breast cancer cells. Crucially, p53-R280K promotes cell proliferation, migration, and invasion in vitro, and drives tumor growth and lung metastasis in vivo in a FASN-dependent manner, as genetic or pharmacological inhibition of FASN abolishes these oncogenic effects.These findings establish that p53-R280K acquires a gain-of-function by co-opting SREBP1 to activate FASN transcription, reprogramming lipid metabolism to fuel breast cancer progression. Targeting the p53-R280K/SREBP1/FASN axis presents a promising therapeutic strategy for cancers harboring this specific p53 mutation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Mallotumide A, a cyclic heptapeptide from Mallotus spodocarpus previously noted for its anti-lipogenic properties in cancer models, was evaluated for its effect on 3T3-L1 adipogenesis. Cytotoxicity assays (24-48 h exposure) established an IC50 value of approximately 1 nM in preadipocytes. Notably, mature adipocytes maintained nearly 100% viability at concentrations from 0.001 to 1 nM, defining a nontoxic range to investigate the compound's modulation of lipid metabolism and differentiation. Treatment of preadipocytes with 1 nM Mallotumide A throughout the 10 day adipogenic differentiation process inhibited maturation into late-stage adipocytes and abolished lipid droplet accumulation. This effect was driven by the sustained downregulation of the master adipogenic regulators C/EBPα and PPARγ across both the early and late stages of differentiation. The disruption of these core transcriptional drivers subsequently reduced the expression of lipogenic enzymes, including pyruvate carboxylase, acetyl-CoA carboxylase 1, and fatty acid synthase, thereby preventing the maturation of the adipocytes. Mallotumide A also impaired growth signaling by reducing Akt protein. In contrast, stress-activated kinases, including JNK and p38, were not affected. The impaired differentiation was not attributed to apoptosis induction, as neither caspase-3 protein level nor caspase-3/7 activity was altered. The analysis of oxygen consumption profiles revealed that Mallotumide A did not significantly impair major mitochondrial bioenergetic parameters. However, in immature adipocytes, Mallotumide A moderately reduced mitochondrial spare respiratory capacity while maintaining normal basal and ATP-linked respiration. Collectively, these findings indicate that Mallotumide A predominantly targets both the early and late stages of differentiation. This effect is mediated through the downregulation of key adipogenic regulators and lipogenic enzymes, alongside the partial modulation of mitochondrial metabolism.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
To date, twenty-seven pathogenic human viruses require host-catalyzed de novo fatty acid biosynthesis for replication. This pathway is driven by fatty acid synthase (FASN), which produces palmitate. Palmitate is a precursor for various functions during viral infection, including lipid droplet formation for assembly, beta-oxidation for ATP generation, and post-translational modification of proteins. Whether Mayaro virus (MAYV), an emerging alphavirus that causes debilitating arthritogenic disease, required FASN for infection was unknown. Using genetic and pharmacological approaches in a human cell line and primary cell model, we found that MAYV requires FASN-dependent palmitate synthesis for virion production. To determine how palmitate contributes to infection, we pharmacologically inhibited pathways downstream of FASN and found that only 2-bromopalmitate (2-BP), a protein palmitoylation inhibitor, led to a 94% reduction in MAYV infection. S-palmitoylation is a post-translational modification in which palmitate is attached to sulfur atoms in cysteine residues. In chikungunya virus, a related alphavirus, FASN-dependent palmitoylation of nonstructural protein 1 (nsP1) is essential for membrane association and replication. Consequently, we hypothesized that MAYV nsP1 is palmitoylated in a FASN-dependent manner. Using an alkyne acetate analog, Alk-4, metabolized by FASN into alkyne palmitate, we observed specific labeling of wild-type nsP1 at conserved cysteine residues (C417-419), but not of a cysteine-to-alanine triple mutant. Treatment with TVB-2640 or 2-BP abrogated Alk-4 labeling of wild-type nsP1 during active infection, reinforcing that MAYV protein palmitoylation is a FASN-dependent process. Our findings reveal a conserved mechanism of FASN-dependent protein palmitoylation in alphaviruses and highlight FASN as a potential anti-viral target.
BackgroundObesity, oxidative stress, and inflammation are major contributors to cardiovascular disease (CVD), the leading global cause of death. Capsaicin, the active compound in chili peppers, including cayenne pepper, has shown anti-inflammatory effects and may help reduce CVD risk. However, research on cayenne pepper's specific impact on CVD-related biomarkers is limited.AimThis study aimed to evaluate the effects of cayenne pepper on lipid metabolism, inflammation, and antioxidant capacity in dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-treated rats fed an atherogenic diet.MethodsForty male Sprague-Dawley rats (21 days old) were randomly assigned to four groups (n = 10/group) in a 2 × 2 factorial design: atherogenic diet ± cayenne pepper (2.9%) for 28 days, with or without 3% DSS (an inflammation-inducing agent) for 24 h.SummaryRats fed cayenne pepper-supplemented diet showed lower body weight gain (P = 0.022) and epididymal fat mass (P = 0.037), along with increased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels (P = 0.029) and decreased low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (P = 0.002) and triglyceride levels (P = 0.048). C-reactive protein levels showed a decreasing trend (P = 0.056), while antioxidant enzyme activities, including superoxide dismutase, glutathione S-transferase, and glutathione peroxidase, were significantly higher (P < 0.001) in cayenne pepper-fed rats. Hepatic gene expression of inflammation marker cyclooxygenase-2 (P = 0.026), as well as the lipogenic genes fatty acid synthase (P = 0.002) and sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1 (P = 0.003), were decreased with cayenne pepper. These results suggest that cayenne pepper may modulate CVD-related risk factors through anti-inflammatory, lipid-modulating, and antioxidant mechanisms.
The diagnosis of heart failure with a preserved left ventricular ejection fraction (HFpEF) remains challenging. Plasma concentrations of NT-proBNP can rule out HFpEF with good sensitivity, but only moderate specificity. Therefore, there is a high unmet need for better diagnostic biomarkers with improved specificity.LC-MS plasma proteomics was performed in 249 patients with symptomatic HFpEF (LVEF ≥50%) from BIOSTAT-CHF and 99 control subjects without heart failure from the PREVEND study. Machine learning was used to identify and rank proteins based on differential abundance. Biomarker candidates were technically validated using the SomaScan 7K assay.HFpEF patients had a median age of 77 years, a median LVEF of 59%, a median plasma NT-proBNP concentration of 1056 pg/mL and 44% were female. Non-HF controls had a median age of 75 years, a median plasma NT-proBNP concentration of 77 pg/mL and 44% were female. Principal component analysis showed a clear distinction between the protein profiles of patients with HFpEF versus controls. Overall, 211 differentially abundant proteins were observed. We identified two strongly downregulated proteins (tropomyosin-4 (TMP4) and 14-3-3ζ protein (YWHAZ)) as biomarker candidates. Compared to NT-proBNP, specificity increased from 73% to 91% (97% sensitivity) using a combined biomarker model, with a Net Reclassification Index of 1.57 (95% CI [1.26-1.83]). The AUC improved from 0.96 to 0.99 (95% CI [-0.00072; 0.065], p=0.036).We identified a protein combination with higher specificity than NT-proBNP for diagnosing HFpEF. Integrating these biomarkers into clinical practice could improve HFpEF diagnosis and management, although external validation is required before clinical implementation.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology.
The development of resistance to anticancer therapies in cancer cell is a major challenge in the treatment of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC), a common malignant tumor. Erythropoietin-producing hepatocellular A2 (EphA2) affects several cancers, and this study examined its role in enhancing OSCC. Following screening, EphA2 and SRY-Box transcription factor 8 (SOX8) knocked down and overexpression cell lines were constructed, followed by treatment with Cetuximab. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, western blot, cell counting kit-8, wound healing, and transwell assay were used to detect the relevant indicators. Co-immunoprecipitation was used to detect the interaction between EphA2 and SH2 domain-containing protein-tyrosine phosphatase-2 (SHP2). Double luciferase reporter gene experiment and chromatin immunoprecipitation experiment were performed to verify the regulatory mechanism of EphA2 and SOX8. The mouse tumor model was established, and the tumor development was observed after plasmid transfection and Cetuximab treatment. EphA2 was highly expressed in OSCC cells, and overexpression of EphA2 up-regulated SOX8. EphA2 regulated SOX8 and associated protein expression to increase OSCC cell migration and invasion. EphA2 knockdown made OSCC cells more sensitive to Cetuximab, whereas SOX8 overexpression reduced this sensitivity. We found SHP2 bound to SOX8. Down-regulation of EphA2 decreased tumor growth in mice, increased Cetuximab sensitivity, and overexpression of SOX8/SHP2 decreased Cetuximab sensitivity. OSCC had elevated EphA2 levels, which enhanced cell migration and invasion via SHP2/SOX8 and impaired Cetuximab sensitivity. Down-regulation of EphA2 decreased tumor growth and enhanced Cetuximab sensitivity, suggesting new OSCC targets and potential treatments.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Carcinogenesis published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Vascular neoplasms comprise a heterogeneous group of tumors ranging from benign to malignant, increasingly defined by recurrent gene fusions. In this report we describe a cutaneous hemangioma with epithelioid features harboring a TPM4::ALK gene fusion in a 43-year-old female. On histology, this dermal-based lesion was composed of epithelioid endothelial cells with no overt cytologic atypia and abundant cytoplasm. Immunohistochemistry showed the epithelioid cells were positive for ERG and showed diffuse intracytoplasmic ALK-1 expression. The fusion was detected via RNA sequencing, highlighting ALK as a potential oncogenic driver in this tumor. The morphology resembled epithelioid hemangioma, a benign vascular tumor known to harbor FOS gene rearrangements. This case represents the second known instance of a cutaneous hemangioma with epithelioid features and a TPM4::ALK fusion. Additional studies are needed to clarify the biological behavior and classification of these tumors within the spectrum of fusion-driven vascular neoplasms.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Development of castration resistance and distant metastasis remain two major clinical challenges in prostate cancer (PCa) treatment. By analyzing multiple public cancer datasets, we found that ribosomal protein S15 (RPS15) is overexpressed in PCa and related to its metastasis. Beyond its canonical role as a structural component of the ribosome, emerging evidence has highlighted the extraribosomal functions of RPS15 in disease progression. Our study demonstrates that RPS15 significantly promotes proliferation and migration in PCa through the establishment of RPS15 knockdown cells and xenograft models. Mechanistically, RPS15 interacts with the functional domain of DExD-box helicase 21 (DDX21) and facilitates the binding of DDX21 to the transcription start region of stearoyl-CoA desaturase-1 (SCD1), thereby enhancing its transcriptional activity and protein expression to drive the growth, ferroptosis-resistance, and metastasis of PCa cells. Moreover, analysis of clinical samples revealed that RPS15, DDX21, and SCD1 are concomitantly upregulated and exhibit strong positive correlations in PCa tissues. Collectively, our findings uncover the significance of the RPS15-DDX21-SCD1 axis in PCa development, expanding the understanding of noncanonical functions of ribosomal proteins and providing new insights for PCa management.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41904004 is a review article
Mutations in the MYH9 gene, which encodes the heavy chain of the actin-based molecular motor non-muscle myosin II-A (NM2-A), cause a spectrum of rare blood disorders collectively termed MYH9-related diseases (MYH9-RD). Previous data indicate that mutations in the motor domain result in more severe phenotypes than those in the dimerization/filamentation domain. Here, we show that N93K mutation, previously described as motor-impairing, has only a minor effect on myosin motor function in vitro, but it significantly enhances NM2-A filament stability and interaction with the chaperone UNC45a. When expressed in stress fiber-competent cells, e.g., COS7 or U2OS, and stress fiber-incompetent cells, e.g., MEG-01, NM2-A N93K formed amorphous aggregates that colocalized with wild-type NM2-A, NM2-B and UNC45a, but not F-actin, tropomyosin-4 or phosphoSer19, active, RLC. Another motor mutant, NM2-A R705H, caused milder defects in filament stability, adhesion maturation and aggregation in both types of cells. Conversely, the tail domain mutant NM2-A E1841K enhanced filament stability in COS7 cells without forming aggregates, while it promoted the formation of small, elongated aggregates in MEG-01 cells that did not co-localize with wild type NM2-A. These data indicate that the molecular defect caused by NM2A-N93K affects the distribution and function of the wild type allele, whereas NM2-A E1841K aggregates do not affect the wild type allele, which could constitute the molecular basis of the differences in severity in mutant MYH9 allele carriers.
Tropomyosin 4 (TPM4) regulates neurite outgrowth and vascular pathology but its role as a biomarker for predicting outcomes in stroke patients is unclear. This study investigated the association between serum TPM4 levels and 1-year functional outcomes in acute ischemic stroke (AIS) patients.AIS patients admitted within 24 h post-onset from the Chengdu Stroke Registry were included. Serum TPM4 levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Poor functional outcomes were defined as a modified Rankin Scale (mRS) score >2 at 1 year after stroke onset. Multivariate logistic regression assessed TPM4's association with outcomes, with its predictive incremental value evaluated by discrimination, reclassification, and overall performance metrics.Among 181 patients (median age 66 years, 64.1% male), 59 (32.6%) experienced poor outcomes at 1 year, including 16 deaths (8.8%). Serum TPM4 levels on admission were negatively correlated with the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score (r = -0.185, p = 0.013). Adjusted for confounders, lower serum TPM4 levels were independently associated with 1-year poor functional outcomes (adjusted OR 0.045, 95% CI [0.005-0.393], p = 0.005). Serum TPM4 levels had acceptable discriminative ability for predicting poor outcomes (AUROC 0.706, 95% CI [0.621-0.791], p < 0.0001). Incorporating TPM4 into the basic model significantly improved the predictive power for poor functional outcomes (net reclassification index: 31.87%, p = 0.041; integrated discrimination improvement: 5.01%, p = 0.008; Brier score decreased from 0.16 to 0.15, p = 0.012).Lower serum TPM4 levels on admission were independently associated with poor functional outcomes at 1 year in AIS patients, suggesting that TPM4 may serve as a potential biomarker for long-term outcomes and offer insights into its potential role in stroke pathophysiology. These findings need to be further verified in external cohorts.© 2026 Wu et al.
Thalamic hemorrhage pain (THP), a subtype of central post-stroke pain (CPSP), commonly develops following ischemic or hemorrhagic injury to the thalamus. Current therapeutic options remain inadequate due to the absence of well-defined molecular targets. This study aimed to elucidate critical genes implicated in THP pathogenesis through an integrated multi-omics approach.A mouse model of THP was established and mice were divided into THP and control groups. Comprehensive multi-omics profiling involving transcriptomics, proteomics, metabolomics, ribosome profiling (Ribo-seq), and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was conducted. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs), differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), ribosome footprint-associated DEGs (RF-DEGs), and differentially expressed metabolites (DEMs) were identified via comparative expression analyses. Hub genes were extracted from the DEGs and subsequently intersected with scRNA-seq DEGs, DEPs, and RF-DEGs to define key gene candidates. These genes underwent gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), disease association mapping, and drug prediction. Expression levels of key genes were used to delineate critical cell populations, followed by analyses of intercellular communication and pseudotemporal differentiation trajectories. Orthogonal partial least squares discriminant analysis was used to validate the model.The THP mouse model was successfully validated. Multi-omics analyses yielded distinct profiles of DEGs, single-cell DEGs, DEPs, RF-DEGs, and DEMs, which were functionally annotated through enrichment strategies. Notably, 12 hub genes were prioritized, of which eight key genes (ferritin light chain 1 (Ftl1), tropomyosin 4 (Tpm4), C-C motif chemokine ligand 3 (Ccl3), C-C motif chemokine ligand 4 (Ccl4), C-C motif chemokine receptor 2 (Ccr2), interleukin 33 (Il33), C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 2 (Cxcl2), and Lymphocyte antigen 6 complex, locus C2 (Ly6c2) were identified. These genes were predominantly associated with oxidative phosphorylation and ribosomal pathways. Further analyses revealed strong associations with necrotic and inflammatory processes, and compounds such as alprostadil and anisomycin were identified as potential therapeutic agents. Single-cell analyses highlighted six pivotal cell types, including endothelial cells and macrophages. Intercellular communication networks and lineage progression patterns of these cells were systematically characterized, alongside spatial and temporal expression profiles of key genes.This study established a validated THP mouse model and employed a multi-omics integration strategy to identify eight key genes and associated molecular pathways. These findings provide novel mechanistic insights into THP pathogenesis and highlight promising targets for therapeutic intervention.© 2025 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) has become the most common chronic liver disease globally. Abnormal crosstalk between hepatocytes and HSCs leads to liver fibrosis and aggravates MASLD. We explored the role of the RNA-binding protein Pumilio in this process.Two isoforms of Pumilio proteins (PUM1, PUM2) expression were analyzed in the livers of MASLD patients and mice. MASLD mice were induced by a western diet combined with intraperitoneal injection of carbon tetrachloride (WD+CCl4), or a choline-deficient, L-amino acid-defined, high-fat diet (CDAHFD). Adeno-associated virus type 8 carrying Pum1-targeting short hairpin RNA or small interfering RNA targeting PUM1 was used to knock down PUM1 in vivo or in vitro. Ultracentrifugation was used to isolate exosomes from cells and serum. RNA sequencing and RNA immunoprecipitation experiments were used to find and identify the target genes of PUM1.The expression of PUM1, not PUM2, was decreased in both MASLD patients and models. PUM1 knockdown aggravated liver injury. PUM1 also decreased in steatotic hepatocytes. Upregulating PUM1 improved lipid deposition and reduced hepatocyte lipotoxic death. Hepatocytes regulate the activation of HSCs by PUM1-enriched exosomes. Tropomyosin 4 (TPM4) was identified as a target of PUM1. PUM1 affected the expression of TPM4 by binding to its mRNA, thereby regulating HSCs activation.While PUM1 is downregulated during MASLD progression, upregulation of PUM1 improves lipid deposition, reduces hepatocyte lipotoxic death and inhibits TPM4 expression to reduce HSC activation.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on behalf of the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.
Myofascial pain syndrome (MPS) is characterized by myofascial trigger points (MTrPs), which are defined by contracted sarcomeres and inflammation. Human-derived MTrPs have elevated expression of Ras homolog gene family member A (RhoA); however, whether RhoA participates in sarcomere contraction and inflammatory pain in MTrPs remains unclear. We investigated the role of RhoA in MTrP development and the underlying mechanisms. A rat model of MTrPs was established using blunt striking combined with eccentric exercise (8 weeks), followed by resting recovery (4 weeks). Lower limb withdrawal thresholds and histomorphologies were evaluated to confirm the model's success. Immunohistochemical staining and western blotting (WB) were used to assess the RhoA and ERK pathway expression in MTrPs. The MTrP ultrastructure and Z-line distances were evaluated using transmission electron microscopy. Lentiviral overexpression and knockdown of RhoA revealed its functional roles. Co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) and mass spectrometry identified tropomyosin 4 (TPM4) as a RhoA-interacting protein. Lentivirus-mediated TPM4 knockdown revealed its biological functions. The animal model showed reduced mechanical withdrawal thresholds; microscopy revealed enlarged, rounded muscle fibers in the MTrPs. Rat model MTrPs had significantly increased RhoA expression. RhoA overexpression in normal rats promoted inflammatory pain-like behaviors and sarcomere contraction via ERK signaling pathway activation. RhoA knockdown in MTrPs alleviated these changes. TPM4 knockdown in MTrPs attenuated inflammatory pain-like behaviors and sarcomere contraction and suppressed ERK signaling pathway activation in MTrP rats. RhoA induces inflammatory pain-like behaviors and sarcomere contraction in MTrP rats, potentially via the ERK signaling pathway. Thus, RhoA is a potential therapeutic target for MTrP treatment.© 2025 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
To analyze the expression level of heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein U (hnRNP U) and its correlation with prognosis in patients with multiple myeloma (MM), and explore the functional role as well as molecular mechanism of hnRNP U, thereby providing a theoretical basis for development of hnRNP U as a novel therapeutic target for MM.Based on Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database, the expression of hnRNP U in plasma cell diseases and healthy controls was compared. Based on the GSE9782 dataset (n =264), patients were divided into high expression group (n =114) and low expression group (n =150) according to the median expression level of hnRNP U . Overall survival (OS) between the two groups was compared. RPMI 8226, NCI-H929 and MM.1S cell lines were selected as tool cell lines. Following knockdown of hnRNP U by shRNA, the cell proliferation was detected by CCK-8. The apoptosis of MM cells was analyzed by Annexin V/7-AAD staining, and cell cycle was detected by BrdU/DAPI staining followed by flow cytometric analysis. The effect of hnRNP U on the biological characteristics of human MM cells was explored. The effect of knockdown of hnRNP U on DNA damage response pathways was analyzed by Western blot.Analysis of GSE5900 and GSE2113 datasets showed that the mRNA level of hnRNP U rose with the increased degree of malignancy of plasma cell diseases. Survival curve analysis of GSE9782 dataset showed that the high expression group of hnRNP U had a shorter OS than that of the low expression group. Down-regulation of hnRNP U in MM cell lines RPMI 8226, NCI-H929 and MM.1S could inhibit the cell proliferation, promote cell apoptosis and arrest the cell cycle. After knocking down hnRNP U, the expression levels of cleaved PARP and p-H2A.X, as the important markers of activated DNA damage pathway, were significantly increased in MM cells.hnRNP U is highly expressed in several plasma cell diseases including MM, and the high expression of hnRNP U in MM patients predicts poor prognosis. Knocking down hnRNP U can inhibit the malignant progression of MM cells, which is possibly associated with aggravated DNA damage.
Background and Objectives: The aim of this study is to evaluate the effects of oridonin on a cisplatin-induced ovarian injury rat model. Materials and Methods: Thirty female rats were divided into three groups. Group 1: control; group 2: cisplatin; group 3: cisplatin plus oridonin group. In groups 2 and 3, the rats were injected with 2.5 mg/kg (twice weekly) cisplatin intraperitoneally (i.p.) for 4 weeks. In Group 3, rats received oridonin (10 mg/kg/day, i.p.). At the end of the study, the ovaries were removed in all groups. Histopathologic analysis and follicle counting were performed. Plasma anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH), malondialdehyde (MDA), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) levels were measured, while ovarian transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1), SMAD family member 3 (SMAD3), and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1 (TIMP-1) levels were evaluated. Results: Oridonin alleviated cisplatin-induced histopathological changes in the ovarian tissue. The numbers of primordial, primary, secondary, and tertiary follicles were significantly decreased, while ovarian fibrosis was significantly increased in Group 2 compared with Group 1 (p < 0.05). Co-treatment with oridonin statistically significantly increased follicle counts at all developmental stages and markedly reduced ovarian fibrosis in group 2 compared with group 3. Compared with Group 1, AMH decreased, whereas MDA, TNF-α, TGF-β1, SMAD3, and TIMP-1 increased in Group 2 (p < 0.001); these alterations were markedly attenuated in Group 3. Conclusions: These findings suggest that oridonin may exert protective effects against cisplatin-induced ovarian injury.
Astrocyte reactivity critically shapes neuroinflammatory outcomes after ischemic stroke, yet the upstream regulators governing astrocyte state transitions remain incompletely defined. Here, we identify the immunoproteasome subunit low molecular weight protein 2 (LMP2) as an important modulator of astrocyte functional remodeling following cerebral ischemia/reperfusion (I/R). Using global and astrocyte-specific knockout models, we demonstrate that LMP2 deficiency markedly reduces infarct volume, attenuates neuroinflammation, and improves neurological and cognitive outcomes. Mechanistically, LMP2 coordinately modulates inflammatory and reparative signaling networks by promoting nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB)-dependent inflammatory activation while constraining transforming growth factor-β1(TGF-β1)/SMAD family member 3 (Smad3)-associated reparative responses, thereby biasing astrocyte reactive states toward more inflammatory and maladaptive programs along the inflammatory-reparative continuum. Conversely, LMP2 inhibition promoted more adaptive and neuroprotective astrocyte-associated programs, enhanced neurotrophic support, and limited apoptosis under ischemic stress. Integrative transcriptomic and single-cell analyses further revealed that astrocyte responses exist along a continuum of functional states, with LMP2 influencing the distribution of astrocyte states rather than acting as a binary switch. Collectively, these findings uncover a previously unrecognized immunoproteasome-astrocyte regulatory axis involved in neuroinflammatory remodeling and highlight LMP2 as a promising target for precision modulation of post-ischemic brain injury.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Within the plant endomembrane system, the vesicle coat protein clathrin localizes to the plasma membrane (PM) and the trans-Golgi Network/early endosome (TGN/EE). While the role of clathrin in endocytosis at the PM is well established, its function at TGN/EE, presumably in late secretion (trafficking from the TGN/EE to the cell surface) or en route to the vacuole, is debated. Similarly debated are potential homeostatic mechanisms balancing the trafficking routes, especially endocytosis and late secretion. We address these questions in Arabidopsis thaliana using conditional silencing of CLATHRIN HEAVY CHAIN (CHC), conditional overexpression of the clathrin uncoating factor AUXILIN-LIKE1, and secretory mutants. CHC silencing interferes with trafficking of cargoes destined for the apoplast and the PM, supporting a function of clathrin in late secretion. The secretory cargoes become abnormally rerouted from the TGN/EE to the vacuole. Unlike CHC silencing, overexpression of AUXILIN-LIKE1 selectively inhibits clathrin-mediated endocytosis while secretion continues normally at early points of induction. Conversely, secretory mutants exhibit a reduced PM recruitment of clathrin, and variably, of the TPLATE endocytic component. Together, our data show a role of clathrin in secretion and suggest secretion as a fundamental trafficking process to which endocytosis is adjusted by a weak homeostatic mechanism.© 2026 The Author(s). New Phytologist © 2026 New Phytologist Foundation.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42425907 is a review article
Despite significant advances in identifying susceptibility genes for bronchial asthma (BA), the immunogenetic and other molecular mechanisms underlying disease risk and progression remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to investigate the association between two common single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), rs17293632 and rs2033784, located within the SMAD3 (SMAD family member 3) gene-previously identified in genome-wide association studies-and susceptibility to atopic asthma and allergen sensitivity in Russian children.This study included DNA samples from 999 unrelated children from the Kursk region, comprising 526 patients with BA (316 boys and 210 girls) and 473 healthy children. SNP genotyping was performed using the MassARRAY-4 system.Both SNPs were associated with an increased risk of BA under the additive genetic model (p ≤ 0.001). In the sex-stratified analysis, the rs17293632 (odds ratio (OR) = 1.79, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.15-2.77; p = 9.0 × 10-4) and rs2033784 (OR = 1.80, 95% CI: 1.28-2.52; p = 6.0 × 10-4) variants were exclusively associated with asthma risk among girls, whereas no significant associations were observed in boys. The rs17293632T-rs2033784G haplotype was associated with an increased risk of asthma in girls (OR = 2.01, 95% CI: 1.38-2.92, p = 3.0 × 10-4). Notably, SMAD3 gene polymorphisms were associated with an increased risk of asthma exclusively among children living in urban environments (p ≤ 0.0001). Polymorphisms in the SMAD3 gene have also been linked to specific allergies, including those to horsehair, chicken eggs, beef, wheat, oatmeal, barley, and foxtail.The present study of Russian children confirmed that the rs17293632 and rs2033784 polymorphisms of the SMAD3 gene are significant genetic markers associated with BA and allergies. However, an association between these SMAD3 variants and asthma was observed only among girls, marking the first time this association has been reported. Further research is necessary to determine whether the SMAD3 gene constitutes a viable therapeutic target for treating asthma and allergic diseases.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
In this study, we explored the therapeutic effects and mechanisms of baicalin (BA) in a dibutyltin dichloride (DBTC)-induced chronic pancreatitis (CP) rat model using metabolomics and network pharmacology. The results showed that BA significantly reduced inflammatory cell infiltration and fibrosis in pancreatic tissues, lowered serum levels of interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), amylase (AMS), and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and thereby decreased expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) and fibronectin (FN) in pancreatic tissues. Metabolomic analyses revealed that BA influences multiple metabolic pathways, including glycerophospholipid and arachidonic acid metabolism, in serum and urine. Network pharmacology identified key targets, such as phospholipase A2 group IVA (PLA2G4A) and transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4), which are primarily involved in IL-17 signaling, as well as other pathways beyond inflammation. Further integrated analysis demonstrated that BA inhibits pancreatic stellate cell activation and reduces pancreatic fibrosis by regulating metabolites, such as arachidonic acid, that act on the PLA2G4A/TRPV4 and transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1)/SMAD family member 3 (SMAD3) pathways. Molecular docking studies confirmed that BA binds strongly to these targets. In summary, BA exerts anti-inflammatory and antifibrotic effects through multiple targets and pathways, thereby alleviating the pathological progression of CP.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Tetralogy of Fallot (TOF) is the most common cyanotic form of congenital heart disease (CHD). The myocyte enhancer factor 2C (MEF2C) transcription factor is a crucial regulator of cardiac development, and variants in the coding region of this gene are a known cause of CHD. However, a significant gap exists in understanding the role of non-coding regulatory variants, specifically those within the MEF2C promoter. This study seeks to fill this gap by investigating whether such promoter variants contribute to TOF pathogenesis and providing functional evidence for their impact.Targeted sequencing of the MEF2C promoter was performed in 305 TOF patients and 306 controls. Identified rare variants were functionally characterised using dual-luciferase reporter assays in AC16 cardiomyocytes. Bioinformatic predictions and electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA) were applied to assess the impact on transcription factor binding.Five variants (g.24599 G>A, g.24918 T>G, g.25270 T>A (rs904793941), g.25701 C>A and g.25769 T>C (rs886060871)) were identified exclusively in TOF patients. Four of the five variants significantly reduced transcriptional activity at a conservative threshold of p<0.01, with reductions ranging from 56.5% to 87.8% of wild-type. Bioinformatic analysis and EMSA confirmed that these variants alter key transcription factor binding sites (eg, for ETS1, GATA3, NFATC2) and disrupt DNA-protein interactions.This study provides the first functional evidence that MEF2C promoter variants are associated with TOF and affect transcriptional regulation, offering new insights into the potential genetic mechanisms of TOF.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Stratified epithelial differentiation involves transcriptional and proteomic remodeling. Here, multiomic profiling implicated ubiquitin and related posttranslational networks in differentiation dynamics. Systematic perturbation of ubiquitin-like machinery in primary human keratinocytes which uncovered opposite functions of neural-precursor-cell-expressed, developmentally down-regulated 8 (NEDD8) and small ubiquitin-related modifier 2 (SUMO2). Generation of conditional knockout mice established essential roles for NEDD8 in progenitor maintenance, skin regeneration, and inflammation, whereas SUMO2 was required for differentiation. Beyond ubiquitin-proteasome-concordant changes, NEDD8 directed proteomic regulation correlated with RNA abundance. Integration of immunoprecipitation- mass spectrometry with genome-wide suppressor screening revealed context-specific NEDDylation dependencies. Among effectors, heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein U (HNRNPU) emerged as a posttranscriptional regulator of epithelial cell state whose RNA binding repertoire was modulated by NEDDylation. Thus, NEDD8 and SUMO2 play opposite roles in epithelial homeostasis, regeneration, and inflammation, demonstrating multiple ways ubiquitin-like networks govern tissue homeostasis.
Patient-derived organoids (PDOs) can recapitulate selected features of original tumors and provide a useful system for studying epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) in three-dimensional culture. Nonetheless, the protocol to generate EOC-PDOs has not yet been standardized. We therefore empirically refined the culture conditions and medium composition, considering the protocol effective when EOC PDOs were successfully established in five consecutive attempts. Tissue and ascites samples (from 29 and 8 patients, respectively) were used and the Syringe-extruded Organoid Basement membrane extract Assembly (SOBA) fragment culture method applied. Selected similarities in cell morphology, marker expression, and detectable alterations between organoids and patient-matched tumor tissue were assessed using pairwise comparisons. The refined workflow used a culture medium containing recombinant human R-Spondin 1 protein (250 ng/mL), Noggin, and NRG1, factors implicated in organoid maintenance and expansion. Ultimately, 31 EOC organoid lines successfully generated from 82.8% (24/29) of tissue and 87.5% (7/8) of ascites samples. The SOBA technique increased the 10 day PDO yield by 2.75-fold relative to the surface-attached dome method (p < 0.0001). This empirically refined workflow can be adjusted for specific experimental applications; however, further validation across larger and clinically diverse EOC cohorts is required.© 2026. The Author(s).
Demineralized bone matrix (DBM) is widely used as an alternative to autografts for repairing bone defects, but its clinical efficacy is limited by poor retention at the defect site and inadequate osteogenic capacity. Here, we developed a multifunctional carrier system aimed at improving the capacity of DBM by utilizing nanoclay-based self-assembly along with cell-derived exosome mimetics (EMs). EMs were derived from mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) osteogenically induced in spheroids and were functionalized with bisphosphonates (BP) to assemble a stable gel network with laponite nanoclays via BP-nanoclay edge interactions. The resulting self-assembled nanoclay gel exhibited excellent injectability, moldability, and self-healing properties, even when loaded with a high concentration of DBM, and supported MSC osteogenic differentiation. We further enhanced the potency of DBM-mediated osteogenesis and bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling in the nanoclay gel by incorporating BP-functionalized EMs (EM-BPs) loaded with miR-200c that can target BMP antagonist noggin. Lastly, we validated the bone regeneration efficacy of DBM-loaded nanoclay gels in comparison to commercially available DBM putties using a mouse calvarial defect model. This approach presents a versatile nanoclay gel carrier platform that overcomes the limitations of current DBM formulations and provides a promising strategy for improved bone repair.
The intestinal porcine epithelial cell line (IPEC-J2) is a nontransformed jejunal model derived from unsuckled piglets. It is increasingly used in gut physiology research, yet its application to nutrient absorption remains underexplored. Four media types were assessed for their ability to support IPEC-J2 barrier maturation and permeability: Dulbecco's modified Eagle medium/Ham's F-12 with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS10), 10% porcine serum (PS10), 5% porcine serum (PS5) supplemented with Wnt3a-R-spondin-Noggin conditioned medium (PS5+L-WRN), and PS5 with epidermal growth factor and insulin-transferrin-selenium (PS5+EGF+ITS). Culture medium influenced epithelial phenotype, with more than a 30-fold range in transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER), which plateaued by day 12. PS10 supported a balanced profile, characterized by intermediate TEER (2395.00 ± 485.51 Ω × cm2), lowest lactulose and mannitol permeability (p < 0.05), high lactate dehydrogenase activity (p < 0.05 vs. PS5+L-WRN and FBS10), enhanced membrane localization of tight junction proteins (p < 0.05 vs. PS5+EGF+ITS), and reduced fibroblast marker S100A4 (p < 0.05 vs. PS5+EGF+ITS). Treatment with digested infant milk formula did not compromise barrier integrity in PS10-cultured IPEC-J2 monolayers and enabled transport of free amino acids to the basolateral compartment. These findings support IPEC-J2 as an alternative to Caco-2 cells for applications in infant nutrition research in vitro.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Nutrition & Food Research published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Neddylation regulates diverse cellular processes, yet its role in osteoclast-mediated bone resorption is poorly understood. Here, we identify NAE1 (NEDD8 activating enzyme E1 subunit 1)-mediated neddylation as a critical regulator of postmenopausal osteoporosis and osteoclast differentiation through two distinct regulatory mechanisms. Pharmacological inhibition of Nae1 or myeloid-specific genetic ablation of Nae1 attenuated osteoclastogenesis in vitro and ameliorated ovariectomy (OVX)-induced osteoporosis in vivo without impairing osteoblast function. Mechanistically, Nae1 depletion disrupted intracellular iron metabolism, thereby suppressing ferritinophagy initiation in osteoclast precursors. Concurrently, integrated transcriptomics and affinity purification-mass spectrometry revealed ACSL3 as a direct neddylation substrate. Nae1-mediated neddylation modulates monounsaturated fatty acid (MUFA) biosynthesis, regulating the sensitivity of bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) to ferroptosis. This dual regulatory mechanism coordinately governs ferritinophagy initiation in iron metabolism and the sensitivity to ferroptosis mediated by ACSL3 neddylation, thereby critically influencing osteoclastogenesis. Clinically, serum MUFA levels positively correlated with bone mineral density (r = 0.329, p < 0.05). These findings support MLN4924, a clinical-stage NAE inhibitor, as a potential therapeutic strategy for osteoporosis and define an Nae1-ACSL3-MUFA-ferroptosis axis regulating osteoclast metabolism.Abbreviations: 4-HNE: 4-hydroxynonenal; ACP5/TRAP: acid phosphatase, tartrate resistant; ACSL3: acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family member 3; ACSL4: acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family member 4; BGLAP/OCN: bone gamma-carboxyglutamate protein; BMD: bone mineral density; BMDMs: bone marrow-derived macrophages; BV/TV: bone volume per total volume; CHX: cycloheximide; cKO: conditional knockout; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CTSK: cathepsin K; DFO: deferoxamine; MDS: myelodysplastic syndrome; MUFA: monounsaturated fatty acid; NAE1: NEDD8 activating enzyme E1 subunit 1; NCOA4: nuclear receptor coactivator 4; NEDD8: NEDD8 ubiquitin like modifier; NFE2L2: NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2; NFATC1: nuclear factor of activated T cells 1; OC: osteoclast; OVX: ovariectomy; PUFA: polyunsaturated fatty acid; ROS: reactive oxygen species; RUNX2: RUNX family transcription factor 2; SLC40A1: solute carrier family 40 member 1; SLC7A11: solute carrier family 7 member 11; Tb.N: trabecular number; Tb.Sp: trabecular separation; Tb.Th: trabecular thickness; TFRC: transferrin receptor; TNFSF11/RANKL: TNF superfamily member 11; UBE2M: ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 M.
Keloids represent a paradigm of fibroproliferative disorders marked by abnormal extracellular matrix deposition, yet the neuronal-stromal interactions driving fibroblast dysregulation remain poorly understood. Through single-cell RNA sequencing of human keloid specimens, we identify RUNX family transcription factor 2 (RUNX2)+ osteogenic fibroblasts exhibiting ectopic integrin-binding sialoprotein (IBSP) deposition, consistent with a hybrid fibro-osseous reprogramming. Keloid fibroblasts display catecholamine response signatures, correlating with excessive tyrosine hydroxylase-positive adrenergic innervation in keloid stroma. Crucially, β1-adrenergic receptor (ADRB1) activation by epinephrine/norepinephrine induces IBSP production exclusively in keloid-derived fibroblasts via canonical cAMP-PKA-CREB signaling. Through detailed mechanistic analysis, we demonstrate that CREB-activated Translin (TSN) facilitates nuclear-to-cytoplasmic IBSP mRNA transport, enabling efficient translation in RUNX2+ fibroblasts. Therapeutic interventions targeting catecholamine biosynthesis or adrenergic innervation, and pharmacological inhibition or genetic ablation of ADRB1 effectively prevent keloid-like pathology in a rodent model. Our study provides the demonstration of neuronal-adrenergic signaling driving fibrotic/osteogenic matrix overproduction through TSN-mediated RNA trafficking, revealing therapeutic targets for keloid management.© 2026. The Author(s).
Bladder cancer (BLCA) is a common malignancy of the urinary system, yet the therapeutic relevance of transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 4 (TRPM4) remains unclear. By integrating single-cell and whole-genome transcriptomic data, this study revealed significant transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 4 (TRPM4) overexpression in bladder cancer (BLCA) (p < 0.05), particularly in epithelial cells. Intersection analysis identified 220 candidate genes (7,808 DEGs1, 4,683 DEGs2, and 4,802 key cell module genes). A risk model was constructed comprising six screened prognostic marker genes, namely, protein unc-93 homolog B1 (UNC93B1), family with sequence similarity 193 member B (FAM193B), protein O-glucosyltransferase (POGLUT3), fibrillin-1 (FBN1), microtubule-associated protein 1B (MAP1B), and RUNX family transcription factor 2 (RUNX2). The model demonstrated marked differences among the risk groups. Gene set enrichment analysis revealed significant disparities in key pathways, including the melanoma pathway (p < 0.05). Furthermore, immune infiltration analysis has identified 12 distinct immune cell types, including naive B cells, which showed a p < 0.05 distribution. The observed distribution was uneven. In the drug sensitivity analysis, 112 drugs (including WZ3105; p < 0.05) showed differential responses, and UNC93B1 showed high positive expression in BLCA tissues (positive cell proportion > 75%). Our studies confirmed that TRPM4 has significant prognostic value and is a potential novel diagnostic and therapeutic target for BLCA.Copyright © 2026 Zhao, Qin, Liu, Zuo, Guo, Jing and Li.
Employing a comprehensive strategy that integrated network pharmacology, molecular docking, and in vitro experimental techniques, this study examined the effect of neohesperidin on the proliferation and osteogenic differentiation of human periodontal ligament stem cells (hPDLSCs) upon lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammatory conditions.Core genes were screened using molecular docking and network pharmacology. hPDLSCs were isolated and cultured, and their surface markers were identified by flow cytometry. The effects of neohesperidin on hPDLSC proliferation and osteogenic differentiation upon LPS stimulation were investigated using ELISA, CCK-8, alkaline phosphatase, alizarin red staining, qRT-PCR, and Western blot analyses.hPDLSCs highly expressed CD90 but did not express CD34 and CD45, which is consistent with the characteristics of stem cells. Network pharmacology and molecular docking analyses revealed that inflammatory and osteogenesis-related signaling pathways were significantly enriched. Treatment with 50 μM neohesperidin promoted proliferation, alkaline phosphatase activity, and mineralized nodule formation while suppressing the inflammatory response in LPS-stimulated hPDLSCs (P < 0.05). It also upregulated the expression of osteogenic markers, such as Runx family transcription factor 2 (RUNX2), osteocalcin (OCN), and osterix (OSX) (P < 0.05). Furthermore, neohesperidin activated the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway and reversed the inhibitory effect of LY294002 (P < 0.05).Through PI3K/AKT activation, neohesperidin stimulated the osteogenic transformation of hPDLSCs under inflammatory conditions, suggesting that it may be a pharmacologically active compound with the potential for use as an adjuvant in periodontitis treatment.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
sM2 macrophage-derived exosomes (M2-Exo) have emerged as promising mediators of bone repair due to their anti-inflammatory and pro-regenerative properties. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the interaction between M2-Exo and bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) are awaiting clarification. Our previous study found that protein arginine methyltransferase 1 (PRMT1) in fracture-derived exosomes promotes bone healing. This study aimed to determine whether PRMT1-containing M2-Exo exerts an osteoprotective effect during fracture healing and elucidate its underlying mechanisms.Following knockdown of PRMT1 in M2-Exo and then treating BMSCs, osteogenic differentiation ability of BMSCs was evaluated by qRT-PCR, western blot, Alizarin Red S, and Alkaline phosphatase (ALP). Immunoprecipitation was employed to clarify regulatory effect of PRMT1 on Src-associated in mitosis 68 kDa (Sam68) and its asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA) modification.PRMT1 was overexpressed in M2-Exo extracted from serum samples of fracture rats. M2-Exo delivered PRMT1 to BMSCs. PRMT1 knockdown in M2-Exo impaired osteogenic differentiation, as evidenced by suppressing mineral deposition and ALP activity (42.3 % and 60.8 % reduction vs. sh-NC; p < 0.01), with a decrease in expression of Bone Morphogenetic Protein 2 (BMP2) and RUNX Family Transcription Factor 2 (RUNX2) (74.9 % and 61.8 % decline vs. sh-NC; p < 0.01). PRMT1 interacted with Sam68, and its knockdown reduced ADMA modification and Sam68 protein expression. Sam68 overexpression partially rescued the osteogenic defects caused by PRMT1 knockdown, with increased mineralization level and ALP (44.3 % and 87.6 % increase vs. M2-Exo-sh-PRMT1 + oe-NC; p < 0.05), along with elevated BMP2 and RUNX2 expression (79.5 % and 98.8 % increase vs. M2-Exo-sh-PRMT1 + oe-NC; p < 0.01).PRMT1 released by M2-Exo is delivered to BMSCs, which enhances the osteogenic differentiation by catalyzing Sam68 ADMA. These findings provide a mechanistic and preclinical rationale for the potential use of M2-Exo to improve bone healing.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Osteoporosis in the jawbone can compromise the success of dental implant treatment. Human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (hUCMSCs) have demonstrated osteogenic differentiation potential. This study aimed to evaluate the effect of hUCMSC induction on implant osseointegration in an osteoporotic animal model.Twenty-eight osteoporotic female Wistar rats were divided into control and hUCMSC-induced groups and observed at 2 and 4 weeks. The treatment group received hUCMSC injections into the implant area of the femur osteoporotic model. Specimens were stained using immunohistochemical and haematoxylin and eosin techniques to assess osteogenic marker expression. Data were analysed using Kruskal-Wallis and Mann-Whitney U test.Bone-implant volume (BIV) was significantly greater in the hUCMSC-induced groups compared to controls. The expression of osterix, RUNX family transcription factor 2 (RUNX2), tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, nuclear factor of activated T cells 1 (NFATc1), collagen type 1, and osteocalcin decreased in osteoblasts from week 2 to week 4. Significant differences (P < 0.05) were observed between control and hUCMSC groups at both time points. These findings suggest that bone formation was completed by week 4, entering the bone maturation phase, supported by the increased BIV in the hUCMSC group.Induction with hUCMSCs promotes both early and late osseointegration in osteoporotic animal models. These results highlight the efficacy of hUCMSCs in enhancing bone healing after implant placement under osteoporotic conditions.© 2025 Association for Dental Sciences of the Republic of China. Publishing services by Elsevier B.Vé.
Rare and common genetic variants contribute to the risk of atrial fibrillation (AF). Although ion channels were among the first AF candidate genes identified, rare loss-of-function variants in structural genes, such as TTN, have also been implicated in AF pathogenesis, partly through the development of atrial myopathy; however, the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. While TTN truncating variants (TTNtvs) have been causally linked to arrhythmia and cardiomyopathy syndromes, the role of missense variants (mvs) remains unclear. We show that rare TTNmvs are associated with worse clinical outcomes in a single-center ethnic minority clinical cohort and uncover a pathogenic mechanism by which the T32756I variant drives AF. Modeling the TTN-T32756I variant using human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived atrial cardiomyocytes (iPSC-aCMs) revealed that the mutant cells display aberrant contractility, increased activity of a cardiac potassium channel (KCNQ1, Kv7.1), and dysregulated calcium homeostasis without compromising the sarcomeric integrity of the atrial cardiomyocytes. We also show that a titin-binding protein, the Four-and-a-Half Lim domains 2 (FHL2), has increased binding with KCNQ1 and its modulatory subunit KCNE1 in the TTN-T32756I-iPSC-aCMs, enhancing the slow delayed rectifier potassium current (Iks). Suppression of FHL2 in mutant iPSC-aCMs normalized the Iks, supporting FHL2 as an Iks modulator. Our findings demonstrate that a single amino acid substitution in titin not only impairs its function but also remodels ion channels, contributing to AF. These findings underscore the importance of high-throughput screening to assess the pathogenicity of TTNmvs and establish a mechanistic connection between titin, potassium ion channels, and sarcomeric proteins, which may represent a novel therapeutic target.© 2025, Pavel, Chen, Hill et al.
Clinical evidence indicates concurrent muscle inflammation and fibrosis in muscular dystrophies (MDs); however, the molecular mechanisms underlying inflammation-mediated fibrosis in skeletal muscle remain inadequately understood. This study revealed a molecular link between macrophages and fibro-adipogenic progenitors (FAPs) in both human subjects and mice via the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β)-RUNX family transcription factor-2 (RUNX2) axis. RUNX2 mRNA levels correlated positively with both the expression of fibrotic genes and the fibrosis area of MD patients. We demonstrated that specific ablation of RUNX2 in FAPs alleviated muscle fibrosis in an animal model of MD. Mechanistically, injured myofibers activated the transcription of chemokine genes, enhancing macrophage recruitment and the release of TGF-β, which subsequently triggered RUNX2-mediated transcription of fibrogenic genes in FAPs, promoting muscle fibrosis. Additionally, we demonstrated that CADD522, a RUNX2 inhibitor, protects against muscle fibrosis in both dystrophic and denervated mice. Importantly, the anti-inflammatory drug prednisolone alleviated muscle fibrosis in MD patients by inhibiting inflammatory cytokine-mediated RUNX2 activation. Collectively, our findings indicated that the TGF-β-RUNX2 axis is a viable target for alleviating muscle fibrosis and related diseases, highlighting potential future research directions.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
To explore the effects of acupuncture on osteogenic signaling and gut microbiota in ankylosing spondylitis (AS).AS mice were treated with drug (oral sulfasalazine) or acupuncture (Du Mai meridian and Jia Ji acupoints). After one month of treatment, pathological alterations in the Achilles tendon tissue were observed. Serum levels of alkaline phosphatase (ALP), bone gla protein (BGP) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), expressions of microRNA-21 (miR-21), bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) and SMAD Family Member 1 (Smad1) in the Achilles tendon tissue, as well as ALP, BGP, Dickkopf-1 (DKK1) and Wnt Family Member 5a (Wnt5a) levels, were measured. Further, 16S Ribosomal RNA (16S rRNA) gene sequencing technology was used to analyze changes in the gut microbiota.After drug and acupuncture treatments, pathological scores were reduced. Both drug and acupuncture treatments downregulated ALP, although only the drug treatment led to a reduction in BGP. Moreover, the mRNA levels of miR-21, BMP-2, and Smad1, along with the protein levels of ALP, BGP, and Wnt5a in the drug and acupuncture groups, showed varying degrees of reduction, while DKK1 level was increased. The results of the analysis using 16S rRNA gene sequencing technology revealed that bacterial richness was significantly increased in both treatment groups compared to AS model mice (P < 0.05), with a more pronounced elevation observed in the acupuncture group than in the drug group (P < 0.05).Acupuncture may alleviate AS by modulating osteogenic pathways and gut microbiota, thus reducing inflammation and pathological ossification.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Type I collagen is the most abundant form of collagen and forms the organic component of bone. Pathogenic variants in genes encoding its constituent polypeptide chains, COL1A1 and COL1A2, can result in autosomal dominant osteogenesis imperfecta and other connective tissue disorders. Although osteogenesis imperfecta is clinically well-described, the molecular basis of clinical heterogeneity among patients is not well understood. We undertook a global proteomic approach to uncover alterations in osteogenesis imperfecta patient bone-derived stromal cells as well as their secretome. We performed multiplexed tandem mass tag (TMT)-based proteomics analysis of cells from three patients along with three controls to investigate global changes in the proteome of these cells as well as their secretome. This was combined with analysis of proline hydroxylation to catalog the modification of type I collagens in this disorder. We observed significant changes in both the cellular and secreted proteomes including the levels of proteins involved in osteoblast proliferation such as nitric oxide synthase-interacting protein (NOSIP), secreted frizzled-related protein 1 (SRFP1) and transforming growth factor beta-1-induced transcript 1 protein (TGFB1I1) as well as others involved in endoplasmic reticulum homeostasis such as protein disulfide isomerase A6 (PDIA6) and reticulophagy regulator 3 (RETREG3). Notably, a number of alterations were observed in proline hydroxylation in intracellular collagens - COL1A1 and COL1A2. These findings expand our current understanding of the cellular pathophysiology in osteogenesis imperfecta and could lead to the identification of novel therapeutic targets.© 2026 Published by Elsevier Inc.
Sepsis-associated acute liver injury (SALI) is an independent risk factor that significantly worsens sepsis prognosis, underscoring the need for mechanistic insights to guide targeted therapy. Accordingly, we established a sepsis mouse model via cecum ligation and puncture (CLP) and performed in vitro experiments using murine hepatic Kupffer cells stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Here, we found that growth arrest and DNA damage 45A (GADD45A) was highly expressed in liver tissues of CLP-induced septic mice, and its knockdown ameliorated liver injury and systemic inflammation. Mechanistically, GADD45A knockdown upregulated ATP synthase F1 subunit alpha (ATP5A1) expression by disrupting the interaction between tripartite motif-containing 25 (TRIM25) and ATP5A1, thereby suppressing pyroptosis and pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion in LPS + ATP-stimulated murine Kupffer cells. Additionally, Aly/REF export factor (ALYREF), a 5-methylcytosine (m5C) reader, was upregulated in septic liver tissues and LPS + ATP-treated Kupffer cells. ALYREF likely stabilized GADD45A mRNA in an m5C-dependent manner, thereby promoting its expression. ALYREF knockdown inhibited NLRP3 inflammasome-dependent macrophage pyroptosis and alleviated SALI, likely by modulating the GADD45A/TRIM25/ATP5A1 axis. Notably, the increased expression of ALYREF in SALI appeared to be driven by activated STAT3 signaling. In conclusion, ALYREF, likely driven by activated STAT3 signaling, appears to activate the GADD45A/TRIM25/ATP5A1 axis in an m5C-dependent manner to promote NLRP3 inflammasome-dependent macrophage pyroptosis, thereby contributing to the development of SALI and suggesting a promising therapeutic strategy for targeted SALI intervention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301658
Normal lung development is an intricate process that depends on temporally regulated mesenchymal signaling to coordinate structural maturation, cell differentiation, and extracellular matrix organization. How endogenous Wnt modulators, such as secreted frizzled-related protein 1 (SFRP1), influence mesenchymal behavior in the developing lung remains incompletely characterized, but a deeper understanding could reveal potential therapeutic targets relevant for neonatal lung diseases.Using a genetic Sfrp1 knockout model, we studied the role of Sfrp1 in distal lung development and mesenchymal signaling.Histological and morphometric studies were performed to compare lung developmental stages in the Sfrp1-/- and Sfrp1+/+ mice. Single cell RNA sequencing and proximity ligation in situ hybridization studies determined cell specific Sfrp1 expression in early development. Bulk RNA sequencing and pathway enrichment analysis detected differentially expressed genes in mesenchymal cells in the saccular stage of development.Ablation of Sfrp1 led to abnormal morphometry in the canalicular, saccular, and alveolar stages of lung development. Single cell RNA sequencing and proximity ligation in situ hybridization studies confirmed expression of Sfrp1 in mesenchymal cells, predominantly fibroblasts, in early development. Pathway enrichment analysis revealed changes in signaling pathways within the whole lung and PDGFRα+ cells in the saccular stage.These findings provide new evidence that the Wnt signaling molecules exert control over sacculation and alveologenesis through fibroblast signaling and differentiation. These results provide an important link between studies demonstrating Wnt signaling patterns in alveologenesis, aberrant Wnt signaling in BPD, and Sfrp1 mediated control of fibroblast differentiation after injury.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Background/Objectives: Melanoma is a highly aggressive cancer with a strong metastatic potential, and therapeutic resistance remains a major clinical challenge despite advances in targeted therapies and immunotherapies. Secreted frizzled-related protein 1 (sFRP1) exhibits context-dependent roles in cancer; however, its function in metastatic melanoma remains poorly defined. This study investigated the role of sFRP1 in melanoma progression and evaluated the anti-tumor effects of the pharmacological compound WAY-316606. Methods: sFRP1 expression was quantified in metastatic melanoma cell lines, xenograft models, and TCGA datasets. The anti-tumor effects of WAY-316606 on cell viability, cell cycle progression, cell migration and invasion, and expression of extracellular matrix (ECM)-related genes were assessed using WST assays, flow cytometry, wound healing and transwell invasion assays, and quantitative real-time PCR, respectively. Results: sFRP1 expression was consistently elevated in metastatic melanoma cell lines, xenograft models, and TCGA datasets, and high sFRP1 expression was associated with poor overall survival. WAY-316606 selectively suppressed melanoma cell viability with minimal cytotoxic effects on non-tumorigenic cells, and induced G1 phase cell cycle arrest. Furthermore, WAY-316606 markedly impaired the migratory and invasive capacities of metastatic melanoma cells, accompanied by downregulation of key ECM remodeling and fibrosis-related genes, including VIM, CCN2, FN1, and TGFBI. sFRP1 knockdown partially phenocopied the anti-migratory and gene expression effects of WAY-316606. Conclusions: Collectively, our findings identify sFRP1-asscoaited signaling contribute to aggressive melanoma phenotypes and highlight the therapeutic potential of its pharmacological inhibition using WAY-316606.
Secreted frizzled-related protein 1 (SFRP1) exerts a context-dependent dual role in cancer, and its epigenetic silencing drives pro-tumorigenic non-canonical Wnt activation, a potentially promising therapeutic target for advanced malignancies. In this study, a preliminarily validated 3D SFRP1 model was built by comprehensive computational approach. High-throughput virtual screening of a commercial compound library identified a common core scaffold, which was rationally design to synthesize lead compound. The target molecule was synthesized via organic synthetic approaches. Surface plasmon resonance (SPR) assays indicated concentration-dependent and specific binding of compound L1 to SFRP1 with a dissociation constant (KD) of 79.1 nM. Furthermore, molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulation provided insights into the interaction between compound L1 and SFRP1 at the molecular level and in simulated physiological conditions.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
This study aimed to examine the association between serum Secreted Frizzled-Related Protein 1 (SFRP1) levels and the presence of coronary artery calcification (CAC) in patients with Stage 5D chronic kidney disease (CKD) undergoing maintenance hemodialysis (MHD). A case-control study was conducted involving 76 patients with CKD Stage 5D undergoing MHD. Participants were stratified into three groups based on Coronary Artery Calcium Scores (CACS): non-calcified (CACS < 100), low-score calcification (100 ? CACS ? 400), and high-score calcification (CACS > 400). Serum concentrations of SFRP1, hemoglobin, albumin, ferritin, C-reactive protein (CRP), calcium, phosphorus, 25-hydroxyvitamin D, and intact parathyroid hormone were measured. Correlations between biochemical parameters and CAC were evaluated, and multivariate linear regression analysis was employed to identify independent risk factors for CAC. CAC was detected in 60.5 % of the study population. Serum SFRP1 concentrations were significantly elevated in the high-score calcification group compared to both the low-score and non-calcified groups, with the lowest levels observed in the non-calcified group (p < 0.01). Positive correlations were observed between CAC and serum levels of SFRP1 levels, phosphorus, age, hemoglobin, alkaline phosphatase, and age. Multivariate linear regression analysis identified serum SFRP1 and phosphorus levels as independent risk factors for CAC in this population (p < 0.05). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis demonstrated that serum SFRP1 levels yielded an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.898 (95 % CI: 0.826-0.970, p < 0.0001) for predicting CAC, with a Youden index of 0.738 at a cut-off value of 4.242 ng/ml. Elevated serum SFRP1 levels were associated with an increased likelihood of CAC in patients with Stage 5D CKD undergoing MHD. These findings suggest that SFRP1 may represent a potential biomarker for identifying patients at risk for CAC in this population.
Vascular calcification (VC) is highly prevalent and a significant cardiovascular risk factor in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). Secreted frizzled-related protein 1 (SFRP1) is a secreted glycoprotein closely associated with the Wnt/β-catenin pathway which plays a crucial role in bone formation, but its function and mechanism in VC remain unknown.Serum and radial artery tissues were collected from CKD patients with or without VC. The cellular model of VSMCs' calcification was established under high-phosphate conditions in vitro. Western blot, qRT-PCR, and immunofluorescence were used to detect SFRP1 expression. The function of SFRP1 was identified by transfection with sh-SFRP1 and pCMV3-SFRP1 plasmid.Initially, bioinformatics analysis showed that SFRP1 expression was significantly elevated in high-phosphate-stimulated rat VSMCs. Subsequently, we discovered that the expression of SFRP1 was dramatically increased in the calcified arteries of CKD patients. Functionally, when SFRP1 was knocked down, the calcification process and the expression of Runx2 were attenuated. In contrast, SFRP1 overexpression exacerbated the β-GP-induced VSMCs' calcification. Mechanistically, we confirmed the activation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling in the in vitro calcification model and this activation was inhibited by SFRP1 knockdown. Furthermore, when the Wnt/β-catenin signaling was enhanced with LiCl, the suppressing effect of SFRP1 knockdown on β-GP-induced osteogenic transdifferentiation of VSMCs was reversed, and calcification was promoted.We identified that SFRP1 promoted vascular calcification in CKD partly by regulating the Wnt/β-catenin/Runx2 axis, suggesting that SFRP1 may be a potential biomarker and therapeutic target for VC in CKD.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Abnormalities in the cell cycle are fundamental mechanisms underlying tumor progression in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Therapeutic strategies targeting mutations or abnormal activation of genes and pathways associated with cell cycle control are under development. However, the efficacy of cell cycle-targeted therapies is currently limited; therefore, identifying additional biomarkers and therapeutic targets is necessary.Copy number variation was analyzed using The Cancer Genome Atlas dataset for identifying FIRRM (fidgetin-like 1-interacting regulator of recombination and mitosis) as a potential driver of HCC development, and evaluating its clinical significance. Furthermore, the biological significance of FIRRM in HCC was validated using in vitro and in vivo studies involving FIRRM-knockout HCC cell lines.FIRRM is located on amplified chromosome 1q and exhibits elevated expression in tumor cells. It was identified as an independent poor prognostic factor in patients with HCC, and immunohistochemical staining revealed that it was primarily localized in the cytoplasm and membranes of HCC cells. FIRRM knockout suppressed HCC cell proliferation, reduced polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1) phosphorylation, and inhibited mitotic progression and the G2-to-M transition of the cell cycle. Furthermore, FIRRM knockout inhibited tumor proliferation in vivo.FIRRM was identified as a novel driver gene in HCC, which accelerated tumor proliferation through PLK1-mediated mitotic progression and promotion of the G2/M transition. These findings suggest that FIRRM is a promising target for HCC therapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Japanese Society of Gastroenterology.
Bone loss is the most common skeletal complication of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and seriously affects the long-term survival quality of children. However, the mechanisms behind bone loss are complicated and need to be elucidated. This study seeks to examine the principal parameters influencing the osteogenic development of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) in pediatric patients with B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) experiencing bone loss, and to identify viable ways for alleviating bone loss.Firstly, bone mass of adolescent B-ALL patients and mice were evaluated with aged-matched cohorts. Then, human BMSCs (hBMSCs) were isolated from pediatric B-ALL patients and characterized by Flow Cytometry Assay (FCA). ALP, ARS, Oil Red O and toluidine blue staining were used to evaluate the trilineage differentiation of hBMSCs. Integrated RNA-seq and proteomic analyses were employed to identify differentially target osteogenic regulators in B-ALL-derived hBMSCs. On the based that secreted frizzled-related protein 1 (SFRP1) was demonstrated to be a regulator on B-ALL BMSC osteogenesis, BMSC-targeted liposomal nanocarriers were engineered to encapsulate lentiviral particles carrying therapeutic shSFRP1 RNA and grafted with E7 peptide (shSFRP1@Lipo-E7), enabling cell-specific gene silencing in BMSCs. Subsequently, shSFRP1@Lipo-E7 was delivered into B-ALL mice by tail vein injection and bone quality were evaluated by mico-CT and histomorphometric analysis.Adolescent B-ALL patients exhibited significant vertebral bone loss, with 33.8% of patients affected. In B-ALL mice, BMD and newbone formation were markedly reduced, while osteoclast activity increased. An increased expression of SFRP1 was identified to impair osteogenesis of BMSCs from B-ALL patients. Consequently, a BMSC-targeted nanoplatform, E7 peptide-modified liposomes containing lentiviral shSFRP1 (shSFRP1@Lipo-E7) was constructed successfully. As anticipated, shSFRP1@Lipo-E7 effectively suppressed SFRP1 expression in trabecular osteoblasts and rescued B-ALL mice from bone loss, supported by significantly increasing BMD and improved trabecular structure. Both in vitro and vivo studies evidenced that silencing of SFRP1 activated Wnt/β-catenin signaling to promote BMSC osteogenesis and bone formation in B-ALL mice.High SFRP1 expression in B-ALL BMSCs suppresses osteogenesis and contributes to bone loss in B-ALL cohorts by inhibiting Wnt/β-catenin signaling, which afford a potential translatable target to reprogram bone homeostasis and prevent bone fragility in ALL patients.Given the negative correlation between SFRP1 overexpression in BMSCs of pediatric B-ALL related bone mass loss, precisely targeting SFRP1 in MSCs for intervention holds promise as a therapeutic strategy to rescue bone loss in this disease category.© 2026 The Authors.
Erosive hand osteoarthritis (EHOA) is a chronic joint disease characterized by severe inflammation and degeneration of cartilage and bone tissue. As this disease is multifactorial in nature, the molecular mechanisms that influence its pathogenesis are unclear, leading to a lack of disease-modifying therapies. However, by screening 40 families with a dominant inheritance pattern for EHOA, we identified two independent germline heterozygous mutations that associated with EHOA onset: PANX1 [c.G455A:p.R152H] and PANX3 [c.G71A:p.R24H]. Pannexin 1 (PANX1) and Pannexin 3 (PANX3) are mechanosensitive channel-forming glycoproteins that pass various metabolites and ions such as adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and calcium to regulate numerous physiological and cellular processes including tissue development, cell differentiation, and homeostasis. In this study, we report that electrophysiological recordings, ATP release, and basal dye uptake assays revealed increased channel activity of the PANX1 R152H variant, which led to increased cytotoxicity following long-term expression. In contrast, R24H mutant PANX3 channels exhibited a loss-of-function in mechanically stimulated dye uptake assays. Under stable, moderate expression conditions, this reduction in channel activity was associated with decreased cell growth, whereas overexpression led to increased cell death. In vivo, R24H expression in zebrafish embryos increased apoptosis and upregulation of p21 and osteogenic genes. Together these findings demonstrate that two mutations with opposing alterations in PANX channel activity, hyperactivity in R152H PANX1 and loss-of-function in R24H PANX3, can converge on degenerative cellular outcomes. Collectively, we report the first germline PANX3 mutation associated with disease and provide the first evidence linking PANX1 and PANX3 mutations to human erosive osteoarthritis.
BACKGROUND: Women with metastatic breast cancer have a disheartening 5-year survival rate of only 28%. CREB3L1 (cAMP responsive element binding protein 3 like 1) is a transcription factor and tumor suppressor which is downregulated in ~ 30% of human breast cancers, with higher frequencies in more advanced metastatic breast tumors. METHODS: To identify new targets contributing to metastatic properties, we carried out a differential gene expression analysis between highly metastatic breast cancer cells with low CREB3L1 and the corresponding lines expressing HA-CREB3L1. This analysis was carried out across three different subtypes of breast cancer cells (T47D, HCC1954 and HCC1806; all CREB3L1-low). Key signaling pathways and cell functions most impacted by CREB3L1 expression were identified using a bioinformatics analysis. Specific genes consistently upregulated in the metastatic cells were knocked down to assess their impact on cell migration, cell invasion, growth in soft agar across in multiple breast cancer lines. The effect of knocking down the top metastatic gene identified in this study was further tested using in vivo mouse model of primary breast tumor growth in the mammary fat pad, and metastatic colonization of the lung. RESULTS: Breast cancer cells with low CREB3L1 expression showed upregulation of metastasis and integrin signaling pathways and enhanced cell movement, migration, invasion functions, consistent with its known role as a tumor suppressor. CLIC3 (chloride intracellular channel 3), a protein with roles in integrin recycling, cell migration and invasion, was found to be consistently upregulated in CREB3L1-low cells and in all subtypes of breast tumors. Increased CLIC3 expression was associated with poor patient survival. Knockdown of CLIC3 in several cell lines reduced cell migration, invasion and anchorage-independent growth in soft agar, effects that could be rescued by co-transfection of an shRNA-insensitive CLIC3 plasmid. CLIC3 knockdown also decreased tumor growth and blocked metastases in a mouse xenograft model of breast cancer. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that CLIC3 has a key role in promoting cell migration, invasion and growth in soft agar, and CLIC3 inhibitors may be a viable treatment option for breast cancer.
Background: Fibrotic remodelling of the lamina cribrosa (LC) is a defining pathological feature of glaucomatous optic neuropathy and contributes to progressive optic nerve head deformation and axonal vulnerability. LC cells from glaucomatous donors exhibit a myofibroblast-like phenotype characterised by excessive extracellular matrix (ECM) production, a process associated with chronic cellular stress. cAMP responsive element-binding protein 3-like 1 (CREB3L1) is an endoplasmic reticulum-resident transcription factor implicated in stress-responsive regulation of collagen synthesis and matrix homeostasis. The role of CREB3L1 in glaucomatous LC cells, however, remains poorly defined. Methods: Primary human LC cells derived from donors with confirmed glaucoma (GLC; n = 3) and age-matched non-glaucomatous controls (NLC; n = 3) were examined. CREB3L1 expression was assessed at the mRNA and protein levels using quantitative RT-PCR and Western immunoblotting. The functional effects of CREB3L1 suppression were evaluated using siRNA-mediated knockdown in GLC cells, followed by analysis of ECM gene transcription (α-smooth muscle actin, collagen type I alpha 1, fibronectin) and cellular metabolic activity using an MTS assay. Results: CREB3L1 mRNA and protein expression were significantly elevated in GLC cells compared with NLC cells. siRNA-mediated knockdown of CREB3L1 effectively reduced its expression in GLC cells and was associated with significant suppression of profibrotic ECM gene transcription. In addition, CREB3L1 knockdown resulted in a marked reduction in cellular metabolic activity in glaucomatous LC cells. Conclusions: These findings identify CREB3L1 as a regulator of ECM-associated gene expression and cellular behaviour in glaucomatous lamina cribrosa cells. While preliminary, the data suggest that CREB3L1 may contribute to pathological fibrotic remodelling at the optic nerve head. Further mechanistic and in vivo studies will be required to determine whether modulation of CREB3L1-mediated pathways represents a viable therapeutic strategy in glaucoma.
Bone metastsis in advanced breast cancer patients are usually osteolytic. A better understanding of the mechanisms in osteolytic metastasis is critical for the development of new therapies. YTH domain-containing family protein 3 (YTHDF3) has been reported to function as an N6-methyladenosine (m6A)-modified mRNA regulator. In this study, we found YTDHF3 expression was associated with clinical characteristics of breast cancer patients. YTHDF3 expression influenced the migration and invasion capacity of breast cancer cells in vitro and in vivo, and low expression of YTHDF3 suppressed cancer cell-induced osteoclast differentiation and osteolytic bone destruction. Moreover, we found YTHDF3 enhanced the translation of zinc finger E-box-binding protein 1 (ZEB1) and SMAD family member 5 (SMAD5) by reading the m6A modification sites in their mRNAs and further promoted the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of breast cancer cells. Enhanced expression of ZEB1 promoted the transcription of bone morphogenetic protein inhibitors such as NOG, FST and CCN2, which boosts osteolytic metastasis. Furthermore, we newly found Wnt family member 5B (WNT5B) expression was regulated by ZEB1, also involved in osteolytic process. In conclusion, YTHDF3 plays an important role in osteolytic metastasis and it may serve as a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for breast cancer bone metastasis.© 2025. The Author(s).
In a complex environment such as that in a diabetic foot ulcer (DFU), multiple factors, including cross talk between distinct cell types of the affected tissue, play a significant role. We identified a transcription factor (TF) cocktail that induces a transition from nonhealing to healing states across multiple cell types.Thirty-three skin and wound single-cell RNA-sequencing samples (85,928 cells) from patients with diabetes with healing or nonhealing DFU were analyzed (GSE165816). The relative activity of cell type-specific TF in healing versus nonhealing DFU was compared, and the cumulative additive effect of different TF cocktails was assessed.We used a cumulative additive-effect approach to identify five transcription factors, FOS Like 2, AP-1 Transcription Factor Subunit (FOSL2), CAMP Responsive Element Binding Protein 3 Like 1, RELB Proto-Oncogene, NF-KB Subunit, ETS Proto-Oncogene 1 (ETS1), and X-Box Binding Protein 1, whose targets include 66.5% of pro-healing genes and only 12.5% of anti-healing genes across all cell types. In vascular endothelial cells, this TF panel accounted for 95% of vasculature-development genes; in myeloid cells, it regulated 85% of antimicrobial-response genes. In silico knockout of ETS1 or FOSL2 shifted cells toward nonhealing states, whereas Nuclear Receptor Subfamily 3 Group C Member 1 knockout shifted endothelial cells, fibroblasts, and myeloid cells toward healing-associated state.This work recognizes a TF panel that is likely to have therapeutic value in promoting healing in nonhealing DFU.In this work, we identified a set of candidate TFs with the potential to induce a cell state transition favoring a switch from nonhealing to healing outcomes in patients with nonhealing DFU. Overall, our gene regulatory network-driven TF cocktail provides a rational blueprint for reprogramming DFU cell states and paves the way toward targeted regenerative therapies.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40980146 is a review article
Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has caused more than 7 million worldwide deaths, but the mechanisms underlying its severe clinical outcomes remain elusive. Although attachment of the spike (S) protein of SARS-CoV-2 to angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), a pivotal step for infection, induces inflammation, the intracellular signals triggered by this interaction are unclear. Here, we found that S protein induced phosphorylation of SMAD family member 5 which was mediated by the bone morphologenetic protein (BMP) receptor activin receptor-like kinase 1 (ALK1) and BMP receptor type II. SMAD5 activation depended on the interaction of the cytoplasmic domains of ACE2 and ALK1. Notably, repetitive treatment with S protein increased the expression of immune-response genes, including interferon regulatory factor 1, interleukin-17A, and cysteine-cysteine chemokine motif ligand 20 (CCL20), all of which were blocked by an ALK inhibitor. In contrast, the S protein of human coronavirus NL63, a pathogen of acute respiratory infection with less severity than SARS-CoV-2 that also binds to ACE2, did not activate SMAD5. Because CCL20 recruits multiple immune cells positive for CC receptor 6, a specific receptor for CCL20, and was detected in broncho-alveolar lavage fluids of patients with respiratory failures by SARS-Cov-2, data suggest that SMAD5 activation by S protein augments the early immune response, leading to the severe clinical outcomes of SARS-CoV-2.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Pannexin 3 (Panx3) has been the subject of numerous studies across different cell types, predominantly concentrating on bone remodeling, wound repair, and dermal inflammation. However, the link between Panx3 and cancer remains minimally explored. Here, we showed for the first time that the expression of Panx3 was lower in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) tissues than in normal oral mucosa tissues, and was associated with the differentiation of OSCC. We found that overexpression of Panx3 significantly promotes ferroptosis while inhibiting proliferation, migration, and invasion in SCC15 and CAL27 cells. Furthermore, in Panx3-overexpressing OSCC cells, the expression levels of P-AKT, P-mTOR, GPX4, and SLC7A11 were significantly decreased, whereas ACSL4 expression was markedly upregulated. Subsequently, the enhanced ferroptosis was significantly rescued upon the addition of the AKT activator SC79 to Panx3-overexpressing SCC15 and CAL27 cells. The tumor-suppressive role of Panx3 through ferroptosis induction was further confirmed by xenograft assays, which demonstrated significantly inhibited tumor growth. In conclusion, the results suggested that Panx3 overexpression reduced the survival of OSCC cells and inhibited the progression of OSCC by promoting ferroptosis via the inhibition of AKT/mTOR signaling pathway.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Formaldehyde (FA) is a significant risk factor that impacts fetal heart development. Circular RNAs (circRNAs) have been recognized as potent regulators of heart development and disease. We discovered a particular circRNA, circEYA3 (rno_circ_009926), which is upregulated in cardiomyocytes and fetal rat heart tissue exposed to FA. Additionally, circEYA3 shows elevated expression in the serum of pregnant women who have been exposed to FA and whose fetuses have congenital heart disease (CHD). While circEYA3 knockdown inhibited FA-induced cardiomyocyte pyroptosis, circEYA3 overexpression exhibited the opposite effect. Our results showed that circEYA3 interacts with SMAD family member 5 (Smad5) protein, serving as a scaffold to enhance the association between Smad5 and the Smad5 ubiquitination regulatory factor 1 (Smurf1). CircEYA3 knockdown stabilised Smad5 at the post-translational level by upregulating Smad5 and promoting Smurf1-mediated Smad5 ubiquitination. In addition, we found that circEYA3 knockdown in an FA-exposed foetal rat heart model inhibited foetal rat cardiomyocyte pyroptosis and ameliorated abnormal heart development in vivo. Overall, our work links circEYA3 to the onset of fetal CHDs induced by maternal FA exposure and provides potential therapeutic and diagnostic strategies targeting circEYA3 for CHDs.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a multifactorial disease associated with aging. As the molecular mechanisms underpinning the pathogenesis of this disease are unclear, there are no disease-modifying drugs to combat OA. Pannexin 3 (PANX3) has been shown to promote cartilage loss during posttraumatic OA. In contrast, the ablation of Panx3in male mice results in spontaneous full-thickness cartilage lesions at 24 mo of age. While protected from traumatic intervertebral disc (IVD) degeneration, Panx3KO mice show signs of IVD disease with altered disc mechanics. Whether the deleterious effects of ablating Panx3in aging are the result of accumulated mechanical damage is unknown. We used male and female WT and global Panx3KO C57Bl6 mice aged 18 mo of age. Mice were then randomized to sedentary (SED) or forced treadmill running (FEX) for 6 wk. Knee joint tissues, including the patellar tendon, quadriceps and distal patellar enthesis, and synovium were analyzed histologically and through micro-CT, along with lumbar spine IVDs. Half of male and female SED Panx3KO mice developed full-thickness cartilage lesions, severe synovitis, and ectopic fibrocartilage deposition and calcification of the knee joints in comparison to all other conditions. Panx3KO mice with severe OA show signs of quadriceps and patellar enthesitis, characterized by bone and marrow formation. Forced treadmill running did not seem to exacerbate these phenotypes in male or female Panx3KO mice; however, it may have contributed to the development of lateral compartment OA. The IVDs of aged Panx3KO mice displayed no apparent differences to control mice, and forced treadmill running had no further effects in either genotype. We conclude that aged Panx3KO mice show features of late-stage primary OA, including full-thickness cartilage erosion, severe synovitis, and enthesitis. These data suggest that the deletion of Panx3is deleterious to synovial joint health in aging.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.
Aqueous humor outflow through the trabecular meshwork (TM) is segmental, demonstrating high flow (HF) and low flow (LF) regions. Here, we investigate transcriptomic differences between flow regions in naïve mouse and non-glaucomatous human TM tissue to better understand intraocular pressure (IOP) regulation.Human eyes (<6 hours postmortem) from two donors were perfused with a fluorescent tracer to identify HF and LF regions and fixed. In parallel, one pair of 8-month-old C57Bl/6J mouse eyes were similarly processed. Sagittal sections from HF and LF regions underwent whole-transcriptome spatial profiling. Differential expression and gene set variation analysis were conducted to identify transcript and pathway-level differences between HF vs. LF TM. Selected targets were validated by immunolabeling.Genes with relevance to TM outflow were identified as significantly differentially expressed in the human dataset, including ADAM metallopeptidase domain 15 (ADAM15), vimentin (VIM), chitinase 3-like 1 (CHI3L1), and several transcription factors (e.g., FOS, JUNB, ESR1). Pathways related to epigenetic modifications were also differentially enriched in human eyes. In both human and mouse eyes, myocilin was significantly upregulated in HF regions, despite greater protein labeling in LF regions of human eyes. In both species, rho-kinase signaling pathways showed increased enrichment in LF regions, while cell stress pathways, and TNF-α signaling were increased in HF TM.HF regions maintain a more active stress response that facilitates greater outflow, whereas LF regions exhibit more matrix accumulation and contractility. This characterization of segmental flow regions can inform future studies to target trabecular outflow and lower IOP.
While greenness has been linked to enhanced physiological and psychological health, its association with glaucoma remains unexplored. This study aims to investigate the effect of residential greenspace and domestic gardens on incident glaucoma. 357, 920 participants from the UK Biobank were included. Land use coverage percentages of greenspace and domestic gardens within 300 and 1,000 m buffers of participants' residential locations were estimated using land use databases. Cox regression models were used to estimate the association between greenness exposures and incident glaucoma. Four-way decomposition models were used to explore potential mediators or moderators in the pathway. Gene-environment interaction effects were tested using multi-trait genetic polygenic risk score of glaucoma and Myocilin p.Gln368Ter genotype. During a median (IQR) follow-up of 13.5 (12.8, 14.1) years, 4, 046 glaucoma cases occurred. After full adjustment, the fourth quartile of greenspace was associated with 17.7% (HR = 0.823, 95%CI 0.723-0.937, p = 0.003) and 19% (HR = 0.810, 95%CI 0.708-0.927, p = 0.002) lower risk of incident glaucoma in 300 and 1000 m buffer. Domestic gardens showed a similar trend (4th quartile vs. 1st quartile: 300 m HR = 0.843, 95%CI 0.742-0.957, p = 0.008; 1,000 m HR = 0.827, 95%CI 0.727-0.941, p = 0.004), though restricted cubic spline analysis showed a nonlinear association in 300 m buffer. Greenspace in 300 m buffer was associated with lower cornea-compensated intraocular pressure. No significant mediating or interactive effects were identified for air pollution, recreational screen time, physical activities, or genetic predisposition. Residential greenspace and domestic gardens may be protective against glaucoma. Therefore, greenspace coverage should be incorporated into land use planning policies for public ocular health promotion.© 2026 The Author(s). GeoHealth published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Geophysical Union.
Despite advances in therapy, lung cancer remains the leading cause of cancer-related mortality. R-spondin (RSPO) 3 and its receptor, leucine-rich repeat-containing G protein-coupled receptor 4 (LGR4), drive tumor progression in a subset of lung adenocarcinomas by potentiating Wnt signaling. In addition to RSPO3, LGR4 is also a receptor for receptor activator of nuclear factor-кB ligand (RANKL). Here, we investigated whether MHP1-AcN, our previously developed RANKL-derived peptide, acts on LGR4 and examined its effects on RSPO3-LGR4 signaling in A549 lung cancer cells.An A549 xenograft model was established by subcutaneous inoculation in BALB/c nude mice, followed by daily intraperitoneal administration of MHP1-AcN. Tumor growth was assessed by volume and weight. In vitro, the effect of MHP1-AcN on A549 cell proliferation, cytotoxicity, migration, and invasion were evaluated. Molecular interactions and signaling pathways were analyzed using immunoprecipitation and immunoblotting.Intraperitoneal administration of MHP1-AcN significantly reduced tumor volume and weight in the subcutaneous A549 xenograft model. Mechanistically, MHP1-AcN directly interacted with LGR4 and disrupted RSPO3-induced LGR4-IQ motif-containing GTPase activating protein 1 complex formation. MHP1-AcN inhibited A549 cell proliferation without inducing cytotoxicity and suppressed RSPO3-enhaced phosphorylation of LRP6 and accumulation of β-catenin. Furthermore, MHP1-AcN dose-dependently inhibited A549 cell migration and invasion by reducing focal adhesion kinase phosphorylation and disrupting F-actin organization.These findings demonstrate MHP1-AcN as a novel LGR4 antagonist that inhibits RSPO3-LGR4-Wnt signaling, tumor growth, and metastatic potential in lung adenocarcinoma, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic agent targeting this pathway.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Mitochondrial dynamics and autophagy are associated with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) progression, but their combined mechanisms are unclear. This study aimed to evaluate the prognostic significance of mitochondrial dynamics-related genes (MDRGs) and mitochondrial autophagy-related genes (MARGs) in ESCC by constructing a risk model.Sequencing data were sourced from public databases, and differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified through differential expression analysis. The MDRGs and MARGs significantly associated with patient survival were identified by univariate Cox analysis and single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA). Key module genes were identified by weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), and candidate genes were selected by intersecting the DEGs and key module genes.In total, 325 candidate genes associated with pathways such as N-glycan biosynthesis were identified. Four prognostic genes [Myb-binding protein 1A (MYBBP1A), coiled-coil domain containing 134 (CCDC134), Microcephalin 1 (MCPH1), and carbohydrate sulfotransferase 6 (CHST6)] were identified through univariate Cox and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) analyses, and used to construct a risk model and nomogram, both of which demonstrated high accuracy. The expression of these prognostic genes was elevated in the low-risk group. Additional analyses indicated that these genes might affect ESCC progression through pathways like olfactory transduction, immune cell infiltration (e.g., CD56dim natural killer cells), and drug sensitivity (e.g., BAY.61.3606). Reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) validated the differential expression of these genes, with CCDC134 highly expressed in the control group, and MYBBP1A, CHST6, and MCPH1 highly expressed in the ESCC group.This study identified four prognostic genes and constructed a predictive risk model that provides valuable insights for the clinical prognosis and immunotherapy of ESCC.© AME Publishing Company.
Progressive loss of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) and degeneration of optic nerve (ON) axons are the key pathological hallmarks of glaucoma, the leading cause of irreversible blindness. Elevated intraocular pressure (IOP), primarily due to dysfunction of the trabecular meshwork (TM), remains the most significant and only known modifiable risk factor. However, vision loss persists in some patients despite effective IOP control, highlighting the critical need to elucidate the mechanisms driving glaucomatous neurodegeneration. Emerging evidence links mitochondrial dysfunction to glaucomatous neurodegeneration, yet the precise mechanisms remain poorly defined. Here, we investigate whether defective autophagy/mitophagy, which removes damaged mitochondria, contributes to mitochondrial accumulation, oxidative stress, and neurodegeneration in glaucoma. We further explore the therapeutic potential of enhancing autophagy to improve mitochondrial turnover, mitigate RGC loss, and preserve visual function.Glucocorticoid (GC)-induced and myocilin (MYOC)-associated glaucoma mouse models were used to assess the expression of mitochondrial markers (TOM20/COX IV), oxidative DNA damage (8-OHdG), and mitophagy/autophagy-related proteins (p62, LC3, Phospho-ubiquitin (Ser65), and LAMP1) in retinal tissues. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) was employed to analyze mitochondrial accumulation in glaucomatous ON. Mitophagy flux was assessed at early and late stages of neurodegeneration using mitophagy reporter Mt-Keima mice. The effect of RGC-specific autophagy deficiency on mitochondrial accumulation and neurodegeneration was further investigated using Atg5flox/flox mice, in which Atg5 deletion was induced by AAV2-Cre delivery. Additionally, the therapeutic effect of enhancing autophagy with Torin 2 to restore mitochondrial turnover and prevent glaucomatous neurodegeneration was evaluated in both GC-induced and myocilin-associated glaucoma models, as well as in ex vivo human retinal explants.Chronic IOP elevation led to increased mitochondrial accumulation, oxidative DNA damage, and impaired mitophagy/autophagy in glaucomatous retina. TEM analysis further confirmed the accumulation of structurally abnormal mitochondria in glaucomatous ON. In Mt-Keima mice, chronic IOP elevation significantly reduced mitophagy flux prior to RGC loss, indicating that mitophagy impairment precedes neurodegeneration. RGC-specific Atg5 deletion induced the accumulation of damaged mitochondria, leading to neurodegeneration in Atg5 flox/flox mice. Notably, pharmacological restoration of impaired autophagy with Torin 2 prevented mitochondrial accumulation and preserved the structural and functional integrity of RGCs and their axons in glaucoma mouse models and ex vivo human retinal explant cultures.Our study indicates impaired autophagy contributes to damaged mitochondrial accumulation and oxidative stress, leading to glaucomatous neurodegeneration. Enhancing autophagy in RGCs represents a promising therapeutic strategy to prevent glaucomatous neurodegeneration.© 2026. The Author(s).
[This retracts the article DOI: 10.3892/ol.2018.9800.].Copyright: © 2026 Mu et al.
Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a life-threatening cardiovascular disease for which no effective pharmacological treatments exist. Histone deacetylases (HDACs) have emerged as critical regulators of cardiovascular pathophysiology; however, the contributions of individual HDAC isoforms to AAA formation remain largely undefined. Here, we identified sirtuin 7 (SIRT7) as the most markedly downregulation isoform among 18 HDAC family members in human AAA tissues. Global and vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC)-specific Sirt7 knockout exacerbated AAA formation, whereas SIRT7 overexpression attenuated aneurysm progression. Mechanistically, SIRT7 deacetylates serum response factor (SRF) at lysine 154, thereby preventing SRF nuclear-to-cytoplasmic translocation and ubiquitin-mediated degradation and preserving the VSMC contractile phenotype. Consequently, SIRT7 deficiency enhances SRF acetylation, accelerates its degradation, and promotes VSMC phenotypic switching, ultimately facilitating AAA progression. Pharmacological activation of SIRT7 with the NAD⁺ precursor nicotinamide mononucleotide attenuated aortic dilation. Collectively, our findings reveal a crucial role for SIRT7-mediated SRF-K154 deacetylation in limiting AAA progression and suggest that nicotinamide mononucleotide supplementation may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for AAA.© 2026. The Author(s).
Dysregulated metabolism and functions of immune cells in the tumor microenvironment (TME) are key factors contributing to cancer progression. As the core immune cells in TME, tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) have become a central focus in metabolic research of TME, though underlying mechanisms are not fully elucidated. Here, we found that long-chain acyl-coenzyme A synthetase-3 (ACSL3) is highly expressed in TAMs and correlates with poor prognosis in colorectal cancer (CRC). ACSL3 depletion induces TAM ferroptosis and reprograms them toward an M1-like phenotype. We further revealed that ACSL3 undergoes lactylation in TAMs, and identified Sirtuin 7 (SIRT7) as its delactylase. Mechanistically, SIRT7 delactylates ACSL3 at lysine 679, restores its enzymatic function and reprograms lipid metabolism in TAMs. Importantly, lactylated and activated ACSL3 significantly protects TAMs from ferroptotic stress and sustains their immunosuppressive phenotype. On the contrary, inhibiting ACSL3 lactylation reprograms TAMs toward an M1-like phenotype, further restores T cell cytotoxicity and suppresses CRC progression. Collectively, these findings establish ACSL3 lactylation in TAMs as a crucial signaling event that enables ferroptosis resistance and maintains M2 polarization, thereby promoting CRC progression. This study provides the therapeutic potential of targeting SIRT7-mediated delactylation of ACSL3 in TAMs, offering a promising strategy for CRC therapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Osimertinib is a third-generation epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor that improves clinical outcomes in patients with EGFR-mutant lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD); however, acquired resistance remains a major limitation. Increasing evidence suggests that metabolic reprogramming within the tumor microenvironment contributes to drug resistance, whereas the molecular mechanisms linking lipid metabolism and immune regulation remain incompletely defined. In this study, lipid metabolic remodeling in osimertinib resistance was investigated to identify resistance-associated molecular factors. By integrating single-cell RNA sequencing, bulk transcriptomic analysis, machine learning-based modeling, Mendelian randomization and whole-genome sequencing, ribosome-binding protein 1 (RRBP1) was identified as a core resistance-associated factor. Resistant tumors showed enrichment of lipid metabolism-active M2 macrophages. Mechanistic analyses showed that RRBP1 activated the sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1 (SREBP1)-carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A (CPT1A)-fatty acid oxidation (FAO) pathway, leading to increased lipid metabolic activity in tumor cells. This metabolic shift promoted M2 macrophage polarization through lipid-dependent signaling and was associated with an immunosuppressive microenvironment and reduced osimertinib sensitivity. Pharmacological inhibition of FAO partially reversed macrophage polarization and restored drug responsiveness in resistant cells. These findings support a relationship among RRBP1, SREBP1-CPT1A-FAO-related lipid metabolic remodeling, M2 macrophage polarization and osimertinib resistance. RRBP1 and FAO-related metabolic activity may represent candidate factors for further investigation in osimertinib-resistant LUAD.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Glioblastoma (GBM), isocitrate dehydrogenase-WT (IDH-WT) (WHO grade 4) is the most common malignant glioma in adults and is characterized by a hypoxic and immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME). Bone marrow-derived tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) dominate the immune landscape in GBM and are recruited to the perinecrotic niche following the onset of necrosis. C-type lectin domain-containing 5A (CLEC5A) has the strongest association with poor clinical outcomes among immune-related genes in GBM and is preferentially expressed in hypoxic, perinecrotic TAMs. CLEC5A overexpression promotes TAM polarization toward an immunosuppressive phenotype and secretion of immunoregulatory cytokines. Using the replication-competent avian sarcoma-leukosis virus long terminal repeat with a splice acceptor (RCAS)/tumor virus A (tv-a) system GBM model with bone marrow transplantation from Clec5a-/- donor mice, we demonstrated that CLEC5A loss prolonged survival, delayed tumor progression, and attenuated TME immunosuppression. Mechanistically, podoplanin (PDPN) expressed on glioma cells directly engaged CLEC5A and triggered downstream Syk/JAK/STAT3 signaling in TAMs. Pharmacologic Syk inhibition suppressed glioma growth, diminished TAM infiltration and polarization, reversed the immunosuppressive TME, and prolonged survival in vivo. Collectively, our findings indicate that the PDPN/CLEC5A/Syk/STAT3 axis orchestrates TAM polarization and TME immunosuppression in the perinecrotic niche of GBM, highlighting CLEC5A/Syk as a promising therapeutic target for reversing the immunosuppressive TME and improving outcomes.
Nucleus pulposus (NP) cell apoptosis and extracellular matrix (ECM) degradation constitute the two major pathological hallmarks of intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD). Inhibiting these deleterious processes represents an effective strategy for attenuating IVDD progression. Sirtuin 7 (SIRT7), a member of the sirtuin family, plays a critical role in modulating gene expression, mediating cellular stress adaptation, and facilitating DNA repair. While SIRT7 has demonstrated therapeutic potential across diverse pathological contexts, its specific contribution to IVDD pathogenesis remains elusive. This study aimed to delineate the functional contribution of SIRT7 to IVDD progression and unravel its molecular mechanisms.We quantified SIRT7 levels by immunohistochemistry (IHC) in degenerative human and rat NP tissues, and by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) in tert-butyl hydroperoxide (TBHP)-treated NP cells. To evaluate the protective capacity of SIRT7 overexpression, we conducted multifaceted analyses encompassing oxidative stress markers, apoptotic indices, ECM turnover, and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) cascade activity in TBHP-challenged NP cells, utilizing reactive oxygen species detection probes, mitochondrial membrane potential indicators, Hoechst 33342 nuclear staining, qRT-PCR, western blotting, and immunofluorescence techniques. Its therapeutic potential was subsequently validated through magnetic resonance imaging and comprehensive histopathological evaluation (hematoxylin and eosin, Safranin O/Fast Green, and Masson trichrome staining) combined with IHC in a rat IVDD puncture model.SIRT7 was consistently downregulated in degenerated human and rat NP tissues as well as TBHP-treated NP cells, concomitant with elevated NF-κB pathway activation. SIRT7 overexpression in TBHP-stimulated NP cells effectively attenuated oxidative stress, apoptosis, and ECM degradation. Mechanistically, SIRT7 overexpression may exert inhibitory effects on NF-κB signaling. Consistently, SIRT7 overexpression in the rat IVDD model decreased NF-κB activity, reduced NP cell apoptosis and ECM depletion, eventually ameliorating disc degeneration.Our findings demonstrate that SIRT7 expression declines progressively during IVDD development. SIRT7 overexpression protects against NP cell apoptosis and ECM degradation, and this protective effect correlates with inhibition of the NF-κB pathway. These findings suggest tha SIRT7 is a guardian of NP homeostasis and highlight its substantial promise as a molecular target for IVDD therapeutics.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is characterized by dysregulated T cell responses. RNA helicases, including DExD-box helicase 21 (DDX21), are pivotal in RNA metabolism, but their role in T cell-mediated pathology during IBD remains unclear. Here, we demonstrate that DDX21 expression in CD4+ T cells correlates with cell cycle and translation pathways in IBD-affected tissues. Conditional deletion of Ddx21 in mouse T cells disrupts T cell homeostasis and impairs cell proliferation. Consequently, Ddx21-deficient CD4+ T cells exhibit resistance to inducing adoptive transfer colitis, with recipients showing reduced T cell infiltration compared to wild-type (WT) counterparts. Mechanistically, DDX21 ensures ribosome biogenesis after T cell activation and facilitates mRNA translation of Transcription factor dp-1 (TFDP1), a transcription factor critical for cell cycle progression. Given this dependence on ribosome biogenesis, pharmacological targeting of this pathway via KU55933-an inhibitor of ribosome synthesis-related signaling-recapitulated the protective effects of DDX21 loss: KU55933 alleviated dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis in mice and attenuated pathogenic CD4+ T cell expansion. Our findings establish DDX21 as a key regulator of T cell proliferation and highlight its potential as a therapeutic target for IBD and other autoimmune disorders.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Preeclampsia (PE), known for its association with oxidative stress, can lead to impaired endothelial function. Although melatonin, as an antioxidant, has been used for treating PE, the specific mechanism underlying its therapeutic effect remains ambiguous. The aim of this study is to investigate the correlation between melatonin and PE, and explore the mechanism by which melatonin enhances endothelial cell function in PE.Serum melatonin levels were quantified by enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA), whereas the expression levels of melatonin receptor and sirtuin 7 (SIRT7) in the placental tissues were assessed via western blotting (WB) in both normal and preeclamptic pregnant women. The impact of melatonin on hypoxia-reoxygenation (H/R)-treated wild-type and SIRT7-knockdown human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) was evaluated, along with the modulation of SIRT7 expression and the Protein kinase B/mammalian target of rapamycin (AKT/mTOR) signaling pathway.We observed a reduction in melatonin levels in patients with PE as well as decreased expression of melatonin receptor type 1A (MTNR-1A) and SIRT7 within placenta. Melatonin restored the migration and tube formation abilities and the expression level of SIRT7 in a PE cell model of HUVECs, while this restorative function was abolished upon SIRT7 knockdown. Furthermore, the AKT/mTOR signaling pathway was suppressed following H/R treatment, a phenomenon that was also observed upon SIRT7 knockdown. Conversely, melatonin administration activated the AKT/mTOR signaling pathway.Our results indicate a potential correlation between melatonin and the incidence of PE. Melatonin alleviates preeclampsia-related endothelial dysfunction, and this effect is associated with SIRT7 and the AKT/mTOR pathway.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Hypertension is increasingly recognized as a contributor to intestinal barrier disruption and gut microbiota dysbiosis, thereby promoting systemic inflammation and end-organ damage. Sirtuin 7 (SIRT7), a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+)-dependent deacetylase, has been identified as a crucial regulator in the progression of cardiovascular diseases through multiple mechanistic pathways. However, the roles and underlying mechanisms of SIRT7 in the development of hypertensive intestinal injury remains unclear, and further investigation is required to determine whether SIRT7 can alleviate intestinal damage through modulation of the gut microbiota. In this study, SIRT7 expression and intestinal pathology were assessed in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs). An intestinal SIRT7 overexpression model was subsequently established in SHRs to evaluate its effects on intestinal dysfunction and microbial composition. Histological and immunofluorescence staining were performed to examine the small intestine, and 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing was conducted to analyze the gut microbiota. There was a marked deficiency of SIRT7 in the intestinal tract of hypertensive animals, which was closely associated with reduced expression of tight junction proteins, including Occludin and zonula occludens-1, as well as intestinal pathological damage in SHRs. SIRT7 overexpression strikingly alleviated intestinal fibrosis, structural damage, and increased intestinal permeability. More importantly, restoration of SIRT7 partially reversed hypertension-associated gut microbiota dysbiosis. In summary, our findings provide novel mechanistic insights into the role of SIRT7 as a critical protector of intestinal barrier integrity and microenvironmental homeostasis under hypertensive stress, and highlight the intricate interplay between SIRT7 and the gut microbiota during hypertension.© 2026. The Author(s).
Solid pseudopapillary neoplasm is a rare epithelial tumor of the pancreas with low malignant potential and a marked predilection for adolescent girls and young women. Although the overall prognosis is favorable after complete resection, preoperative characterization and surgical planning become more challenging in giant tumors with intratumoral degeneration, hemorrhage, and adjacent vascular compression. We report a 15-year-old girl who presented with acute abdominal pain persisting for 24 hours after strenuous physical activity. Imaging revealed a giant mixed solid-cystic mass in the pancreatic body and tail, and computed tomography angiography and venography demonstrated narrowing of the splenic vein with collateral venous circulation. After multidisciplinary assessment of oncologic safety and perioperative bleeding risk, the patient underwent laparoscopic distal pancreatectomy with splenectomy. Histopathology confirmed solid pseudopapillary neoplasm with negative margins and no nodal metastasis; ectopic splenic tissue was identified in the peripancreatic fat. Immunohistochemistry showed nuclear/cytoplasmic positivity for beta-catenin, loss of E-cadherin, positivity for CD10 and CD56, and partial positivity for lymphoid enhancer-binding factor 1, supporting the diagnosis. The postoperative course was uneventful, and no evidence of recurrence was detected on short-term follow-up. This case suggests that giant solid pseudopapillary neoplasm may have been related to acute abdominal pain in the setting of intratumoral degeneration, hemorrhagic change, and local tension effect. Surgical strategy should balance oncologic safety, bleeding risk, and organ preservation. In patients requiring splenectomy, long-term infection prevention should include immunization planning, fever emergency counseling, and individualized antibiotic prophylaxis according to local guidance and risk stratification.Copyright © 2026 Zhou, Zha, Yang, Hou, Chen, Hu and Xing.
Chicken skin colour is an economically important trait influenced by consumer preferences across different markets. Previous studies established that white skin is dominant over yellow skin, with the β, β-carotene-9',10'-dioxygenase (BCO2) identified as the candidate gene. However, the precise causal mutation within this gene region has remained unidentified for over a decade, limiting the development of reliable molecular markers for breeding programs.Through genome-wide association analysis of 381 chickens, we confirmed that the BCO2 gene region on chromosome 24 was the major locus associated with skin colour. Transcriptome analysis revealed approximately 590-fold higher BCO2 expression in white-skinned than yellow-skinned chickens. By integrating whole-genome sequencing data from 63 individuals with high-quality genome assemblies, we identified a 24-bp insertion that showed near-complete co-segregation with the yellow skin phenotype in a backcross family of 180 individuals. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays revealed an insertion-dependent DNA-protein interaction, and DNA pull-down coupled with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) prioritised lymphoid enhancer-binding factor 1 (LEF1) as a leading candidate interactor. Chromatin profiling revealed elevated trimethylation of histone H3 at lysine 27 (H3K27me3) and reduced chromatin accessibility at the gene locus in yellow-skinned chickens. Functional experiments revealed that knockdown of LEF1 or inhibition of enhancer of zeste homologue 2 (EZH2) significantly increased BCO2 expression, supporting a model in which the insertion is associated with LEF1/EZH2-sensitive, polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2)-linked repression and transcriptional silencing.The 24-bp insertion in the BCO2 regulatory region is a candidate causal variant for yellow skin in chickens, refining the genetic model of chicken skin colour variation and supporting a LEF1-PRC2-associated regulatory mechanism potentially involved in avian carotenoid metabolism. This finding enables the development of a reliable PCR-based diagnostic marker for skin colour, facilitating marker-assisted selection in poultry breeding and providing new insights into the genetic regulation of avian pigmentation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Silicosis is an incurable fibrotic lung disease caused by crystalline silica exposure. Aberrant activation of lung fibroblasts into pathological fibroblasts is a hallmark of silicosis. CTHRC1 has been considered a novel fibroblast activation biomarker. This study sought to explore CTHRC1's role in silicosis and determine the signaling pathways it modulates. A combination of transcriptomic analysis of clinical samples, LC-MS/MS, Co-IP, and cationic nanoliposome-based techniques was utilized. In vitro models of lung fibroblast activation induced by TGF-β1, PDGF or recombinant CTHRC1 (rCTHRC1), as well as in vivo models of pulmonary fibrosis induced by silica or bleomycin in mice were established. RNA sequencing, Western blot, RT-qPCR, AlphaFold2 analyses and rescue experiments using siCTHRC1, siCD44, CTHRC1 plasmids, and the PI3K activator 740 Y-P were performed to explore the underlying mechanisms. CTHRC1 is a significantly dysregulated gene implicated in myogenesis and ECM-related pathways. Mechanistically, lymphoid enhancer-binding factor 1 (LEF1) exerts its transcriptional regulator role by binding to the CTHRC1 promoter region in TGF-β1-activated fibroblasts. Further, CTHRC1 mediates its pro-fibroblast-to-myofibroblast transition function by directly binding to the CD44 receptor. AlphaFold2 analyses revealed the binding between CTHRC1 and CD44 is accomplished by three critical CD44 residues: Arg41, Asn172, and Trp650. Rescue experiments demonstrated that the CTHRC1-CD44 complex exerts its pro-fibrotic effects through AKT signaling. In vivo, liposomal Cthrc1 siRNA mitigated fibrogenesis in both silica- and bleomycin-induced mouse fibrosis models. Our results uncover a previously unrecognized role of the LEF1-CTHRC1-CD44 axis in silicosis and highlight the therapeutic target potential of CTHRC1 in fibrotic lung diseases.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This research aimed to examine the clinical relevance and biological function of the tight junction protein claudin-2 (CLDN2) in gastric cancer, along with its regulatory interactions with lymphoid enhancer-binding factor 1 (LEF1) and the Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (KEAP1)/nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NRF2) pathway. Analysis of CLDN2 expression and its prognostic implications in gastric cancer was conducted using data from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. The effects of CLDN2 or LEF1 on gastric cancer (GC) cells were detected by RT-qPCR, Western blot, cell-counting kit-8 (CCK-8), transwell assay, flow cytometry, CO-IP and immunofluorescence assays. The interactions between CLDN2 and LEF1 was predicted and validated using Gene MANIA and GEPIA. The functional association between CLDN2 and LEF1 was analyzed by rescue experiments. In GC tissues, CLDN2 was significantly upregulated and correlated with tumor stage, lymph node metastasis, and poor prognosis, showing elevated levels in young patients (21-40 years old) and individuals infected with Helicobater pylori (H. pylori). CLDN2 silencing inhibited GC cell proliferation, migration and invasion, induced G1-phase cycle block and apoptosis, and decreased cyclin D1 expression. CLDN2 and LEF1 were positively correlated and directly interacted, and suppressing LEF1 hindered the progression of GC. CLDN2 reduced KEAP1 expression and promoted NRF2 protein stability through post-transcriptional regulation. Silencing CLDN2 or LEF1 activated the KEAP1/NRF2 pathway and inhibited downstream p65, IkappaB kinase (IKK) and IκB protein expression. Reducing LEF1 levels counteracted the effects of CLDN2 on GC cell growth and KEAP1/NRF2 pathway. Increased levels of CLDN2, which modulate the LEF1 and KEAP1/NRF2 pathways, are correlated with GC progression and may be used as a marker for poor prognosis.Copyright© 2025 Polish Physiological Society.
Two hundred Holstein dairy cows (milk yield of 34.5 ± 0.6 kg/d, 3.1 ± 1.2 lactations) were enrolled to investigate the role of WNTs signaling network in early pregnancy loss. The ISG15 mRNA abundance of uterine luminal cells obtained via brushing on day 16 after service was used to determine initial pregnancy status, with confirmation via ultrasound on days 32 and 60. The mRNA abundance of cells obtained from uterine brushing for WNT2, WNT5A, WNT7A, WNT11, frizzled receptors (FZD), dickkopf proteins (DKK1), Kremen and LDL receptor related protein (LRP 5/6), lymphoid enhancer-binding factor 1 (LEF1) and transcription factor 7 (TCF) was determined at day16 after insemination. Relative mRNA abundance of DKK1 (1.98-fold), WNT5A (2.67-fold), WNT7A (1.83-fold) and WNT11 (2.16-fold) genes in pregnant cows were significantly greater than in cows with early embryonic mortality (P < 0.05). In contrast, relative mRNA abundance of WNT2 (3.35-fold) and FZD6 (5.50-fold) genes were significantly greater in pregnant-embryo loss cows compared to pregnant cows on day 16 (P < 0.05). The relative mRNA abundance of LRP5, LRP6, LEF1, FZD3, FZD5, FZD8 and TCF genes were not affected by pregnancy status although their variances were lower; however, there was a negative correlation among ISG15 and these genes. In conclusion, differences in mRNA abundance of WNT signaling genes in uterine brushing samples are associated with pregnancy status in lactating dairy cows and may contribute to minimizing early bovine pregnancy losses.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Glioma remains a lethal malignancy of the central nervous system, and additional biomarkers that improve prognostic stratification and inform therapeutic exploration are still needed. This study evaluated mannose receptor C-type 2 (MRC2/Endo180) by integrating public transcriptomic cohorts with in vitro validation. Expression profiles and matched clinical annotations were obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) project for tumor-normal comparisons and pan-cancer screening, and prognostic associations were further examined in the Chinese Glioma Genome Atlas (CGGA) cohort. MRC2 expression was assessed in glioma cell lines by reverse transcription quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) and immunoblotting, and stable MRC2 knockdown was established in U87 and U251 cells using lentiviral short hairpin RNAs (shRNAs). Cell growth and clonogenicity were evaluated using CCK-8 and colony formation assays, whereas migration and invasion were assessed using porous-membrane insert assays. CDK4, CDK6, and β-catenin/epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-related markers were analyzed by immunoblotting. Across datasets, MRC2 was elevated in glioma, and higher expression was associated with worse overall survival, disease-specific survival, and progression-free interval. In vitro, MRC2 depletion reduced proliferation, clonogenicity, migration, and invasion, accompanied by decreased CDK4 and CDK6 protein levels and changes in β-catenin and EMT-related markers. Together, these findings support MRC2 as a candidate prognostic biomarker associated with aggressive glioma phenotypes and warrant further mechanistic and in vivo investigation.
Liver fibrosis is characterized by excessive collagen accumulation, the principal component of the extracellular matrix (ECM), produced by activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). While the catabolic role of mannose receptor C-type 2 (MRC2) in binding and degradation of collagen is established, its role in regulating pro-fibrotic signaling remains undefined. We investigated the novel, non-canonical signaling function of the collagen receptor MRC2 as a regulator of HSC activation. Using doxycycline-inducible knockdown and overexpression systems in human HSCs, we show that MRC2 deficiency enhances activation phenotypes, including proliferation, migration, contraction, and collagen overproduction. Conversely, MRC2 overexpression suppressed these effects. Transcriptomic analysis of MRC2 knockdown cells revealed a pro-fibrotic transcriptional shift, with enrichment of pathways related to ECM organization, collagen biosynthesis, and the PI3K/AKT signaling axis. Mechanistically, MRC2 depletion induced transcriptional upregulation of ECM genes and components of the integrin/PI3K/AKT axis, accompanied by increased AKT phosphorylation. Pharmacological inhibition of either PI3K or integrins reversed ECM gene expression and collagen phenotypes induced by MRC2 depletion, establishing these pathways as required mediators. Our findings identify a novel, non-canonical signaling function of MRC2 as a negative regulator of HSC activation.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
The pathophysiology of melanoma is considerably complex. Wnt signaling via the β-catenin / transcription factor 7-like 2 / lymphoid enhancer-binding factor 1 (LEF1) complex, microphthalmia-associated transcription factor, tyrosinase-related protein-2, tyrosinase, and cyclin-dependent kinase 2 are reported to activate the transcriptional gene expression associated with pigmentation and the differentiation and proliferation of melanocytes and malignant melanoma cells. Cinobufagin, a common active ingredient in traditional Chinese medicine, has been approved in China as a chemotherapeutic agent for the treatment of liver and prostate cancer. The primary aim of this study is to evaluate the effects of cinobufagin, paclitaxel, and their combination (cinobufagin/paclitaxel) on melanoma cells, both individually and in combination, in the G361 melanoma cell line.Within the study, half maximal inhibitory concentration doses were determined based on the [3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide] assay, caspase-3 levels were measured using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay method, and mRNA expression levels were analyzed using RT-PCR.The use of cinobufagin/paclitaxel was found to increase caspase-3 levels by more than the use of cinobufagin alone; moreover, cinobufagin treatment decreased the expression of the β-catenin, c-myc, and cyclin D1 genes, whereas cinobufagin/paclitaxel was found to increase the mRNA expression of all genes considered (Bax, caspase-3, Bcl2, β-catenin, c-myc, Wnt, and cyclin D1).Cinobufagin can therefore be considered a promising natural pharmaceutical agent for the targeted treatment of cancers with high levels of LEF1.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42212136 is a review article
Freezing of gait (FOG) is a disabling complication of Parkinson's disease (PD), but peripheral associations remain poorly defined. C-terminal agrin fragment-22 (CAF22) is a circulating biomarker of neuromuscular junction degradation. We investigated whether baseline plasma CAF22 predicts the development of FOG in PD patients. In this prospective cohort study, 233 patients with idiopathic PD and no baseline FOG were followed for 24 months with assessments at 6-month intervals. Incident FOG was identified using the New Freezing of Gait Questionnaire. Cox proportional hazards models assessed associations between CAF22 and time to first FOG, adjusting for age, sex, disease duration, motor severity, gait speed, muscle strength, cognitive performance, and levodopa-equivalent daily dose. During follow-up, 55 participants (23.6%) developed incident FOG. Higher baseline plasma CAF22 was associated with an increased risk of FOG per standard deviation increase (HR 1.4, 95% CI 1.09-1.81). This association remained significant after multivariate adjustment (adjusted HR 1.37, 95% CI 1.03-1.82). Baseline CAF22 concentrations were higher in participants with greater motor severity and slower gait speed, but showed weaker associations with global cognitive performance. Faster gait speed was independently protective against FOG (HR 0.64, 95% CI 0.52-0.78). Kaplan-Meier analyses demonstrated progressively lower FOG-free survival across increasing CAF22 tertiles (log-rank p = 0.046). Elevated baseline plasma CAF22 independently predicts incident FOG in PD. CAF22 may reflect peripheral neuromuscular dysfunction and could serve as a biomarker of FOG risk.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
This study investigated the effect of glutamine (Gln) on paralytic symptoms in rats poisoned by Bungarus multicinctus and explored the underlying mechanism, focusing on the Agrin-MuSK signaling pathway in neuromuscular transmission recovery.An ex vivo diaphragm tension assay assessed Gln's reversal of venom-induced neuromuscular blockade. A rat poisoning model was established with Bungarus multicinctus venom (0.15 mg/kg). Rats were divided into normal, venom, and venom + Gln groups. We evaluated survival, paralysis, blood gases (PaO2, PaCO2, PaSO2), diaphragm histopathology and ultrastructure, and oxidative stress markers (SOD, MDA). RT-qPCR and Western Blot analyzed key Agrin-MuSK pathway components (mRNA: Agrin, Chrne, Chrna, LRP4, MuSK, Rapsyn; protein: Agrin, p-MuSK/MuSK, α1- subunit of nAChR, ε- subunit of nAChR). Gln significantly reversed venom-induced diaphragm tension decline ex vivo (P < 0.05). In vivo, high-dose Gln (750 mg/kg) significantly improved survival (P < 0.05), alleviated paralysis and hypoxia (increased PaSO2, PaO2; decreased PaCO2, P < 0.05), reduced diaphragm ultrastructural damage, and enhanced antioxidant capacity (increased SOD, decreased MDA, P < 0.05). Venom significantly suppressed key Agrin-MuSK pathway elements (Agrin, p-MuSK/MuSK; P < 0.01). Gln intervention significantly upregulated the expression of pathway molecules (Agrin, Chrne, LRP4, MuSK, Rapsyn mRNA and Agrin, p-MuSK/MuSK protein; P < 0.05 or P < 0.01).Gln effectively alleviates paralysis and improves survival in Bungarus multicinctus-poisoned rats. This protection is associated with improved neuromuscular junction ultrastructure, reduced oxidative stress, and activation of the Agrin-MuSK signaling pathway, promoting neuromuscular transmission recovery. The study provides experimental evidence and potential therapeutic targets for Gln in treating Bungarus multicinctuspoisoning, especially respiratory paralysis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42518135 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510568 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42496377 is a review article
Background: Sarcopenia is a common complication and an important negative prognostic factor in patients with liver cirrhosis, being associated with reduced muscle mass and function, as well as increased mortality. Although computed tomography (CT) is considered the gold standard for assessing muscle mass, there is growing interest in identifying serum biomarkers that may facilitate the early diagnosis and monitoring of disease progression. The aim of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic value of osteonectin, the C-terminal agrin fragment (CAF), the N-terminal propeptide of type III procollagen (P3NP), and myostatin in patients with liver cirrhosis and sarcopenia, in correlation with CT-derived imaging parameters. Materials and Methods: A prospective observational caseâcontrol study was conducted, including 60 participants: 30 patients with liver cirrhosis (with or without hepatocellular carcinoma) and sarcopenia, and 30 healthy control subjects. Sarcopenia was diagnosed according to the European Working Group on Sarcopenia in Older People 2 (EWGSOP2) criteria, using the skeletal muscle index (SMI) and psoas muscle index (PMI) measured by computed tomography. Serum concentrations of osteonectin, CAF, P3NP, and myostatin were determined using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Statistical analyses included parametric and non-parametric tests, as well as Pearson correlation analysis. Results: Patients with liver cirrhosis and sarcopenia exhibited significantly higher serum levels of osteonectin, CAF, P3NP, and myostatin compared with healthy controls (p 0.001 for all comparisons). The skeletal muscle index was significantly lower in cirrhotic patients, confirming the presence of muscle wasting. Correlation analysis demonstrated positive associations between osteonectin and CAF (r = 0.441, p 0.001), osteonectin and P3NP (r = 0.313, p = 0.016), osteonectin and myostatin (r = 0.444, p 0.001), as well as a strong correlation between CAF and myostatin (r = 0.882, p 0.001). No significant associations were observed between biomarker levels and viral etiology or ChildâPugh class. Conclusions: Simultaneous assessment of osteonectin, CAF, P3NP, and myostatin, combined with computed tomography-based imaging evaluation, may improve the diagnosis of sarcopenia associated with liver cirrhosis and facilitate the early identification of patients at increased risk of muscle deterioration. Larger multicenter prospective studies are warranted to validate the clinical utility of these biomarkers in routine medical practice.Celsius.
Functional decline is common in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and is not fully explained by pulmonary impairment. Early biological markers capable of identifying patients at risk of accelerated physical deterioration are lacking. C-terminal agrin fragment-22 (CAF22), a circulating biomarker of neuromuscular junction (NMJ) degradation, may detect future functional decline in COPD.In this prospective longitudinal cohort study, 292 clinically stable patients with COPD (171 men and 121 women) were followed for 12 and 24 months. Stable patients were defined as having a preserved Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB) score ≥9. Plasma CAF22 was measured at baseline and analyzed as quartiles and as a continuous variable. Functional decline was defined as a ≥ 1-point reduction in total SPPB score.Baseline CAF22 concentrations were higher in patients with lower baseline SPPB scores and in those who subsequently developed functional decline. The proportion of participants experiencing decline increased progressively across higher CAF22 quartiles at both 12 and 24 months (p for trend <0.001). After multivariate adjustment, participants in the highest CAF22 quartile had increased odds of functional decline compared with the lowest quartile at 12 (AOR 2.85, 95% CI 1.32-6.17; p = 0.008) and 24 (AOR 3.60, 95% CI 1.65-7.82; p = 0.001) months. When analyzed continuously, each unit increase in CAF22 independently predicted functional decline at 12 months (AOR 1.02; p = 0.022) and 24 months (AOR 1.04; p < 0.001).Elevated baseline plasma CAF22 independently predicts subsequent functional decline in patients with stable COPD, supporting its potential utility as an early biomarker of NMJ degradation and physical deterioration.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Chronic pancreatitis (CP) is associated with sarcopenia and functional decline, yet the underlying mechanisms remain underexplored. Neuromuscular junction (NMJ) degradation and neurotrophic imbalance may play key roles, but relevant studies remain scarce.We recruited 74 healthy controls, 65 patients with early CP, and 57 patients with advanced CP for evaluation of sarcopenia, including handgrip strength (HGS), muscle mass, and gait speed. Physical performance was measured using the Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB). Plasma C-terminal agrin fragment-22 (CAF22; a marker of NMJ degradation), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and markers of inflammation, oxidative stress, and nutritional status were measured.Sarcopenia prevalence and functional impairment increased significantly with CP severity. Plasma CAF22 showed a stepwise increase from controls to early and advanced CP, with increases of 10.2% and 24.3%, respectively. BDNF declined by 12.4% in advanced CP, while the total protein and albumin were lowest in advanced CP. CAF22 displayed robust associations with HGS, gait speed, and SPPB across all groups, with the largest effect sizes in advanced CP. BDNF exhibited positive associations with muscle function, while inflammatory, oxidative, and nutritional biomarkers exhibited weaker and stage-dependent relationships. These associations appeared to strengthen with worsening CP, suggesting that neuromuscular, inflammatory, and metabolic stressors may become more closely linked to functional decline in advanced disease.CP is associated with progressive sarcopenia along with NMJ degeneration, neurotrophic imbalance, inflammation, oxidative stress, and nutritional decline. These findings highlight the potential value of CAF22 and BDNF as biomarkers of functional impairment.Copyright © 2026 IAP and EPC. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Muscle-specific kinase (MuSK) is a pivotal player in forming and maintaining healthy neuromuscular junctions (NMJ). In MuSK myasthenia gravis (MG), autoantibodies targeting MuSK disrupt its function, impairing neuromuscular transmission and causing fatigable skeletal muscle weakness. MuSK autoantibodies predominantly belong to the IgG4 subclass, which bind in a monovalent fashion due to Fab-arm exchange, although autoantibodies of other subclasses also exist. Polyclonal autoreactive IgG from patients may therefore harbor a variety of monovalent and bivalent MuSK antibodies with potentially distinct effects on MuSK signaling. To further unravel the pathomechanisms underlying MuSK MG, we have investigated how MuSK antibody-binding affects MuSK functioning with a diverse panel of (patient-derived) monoclonal MuSK antibodies. Our findings reveal that the valency of antibody-binding influences binding kinetics to MuSK, inhibition of agrin-induced MuSK activation, Dok7 binding to MuSK and NMJ gene expression. Monovalent binding to the frizzled domain of MuSK did not inhibit agrin-induced MuSK activation, while monovalent binding to the Ig-like domain 1 does. Moreover, the kinetics of Dok7 degradation induced by bivalent MuSK antibodies appear to depend on binding-epitope of MuSK. Surprisingly, none of the clones tested (both bivalent and monovalent) increased MuSK internalization. Taken together, the cumulative pathogenic effect of polyclonal MuSK antibodies in individual MuSK MG patients thus likely depends on autoantibody titer, affinity and the unique composition of MuSK autoantibodies varying in epitope and valency. This research enriches our understanding of the intricate interactions between antibodies and MuSK in MuSK MG and offers potential insights into novel therapeutic strategies using MuSK antibodies.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Vascular Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (vEDS) is a rare connective tissue disorder characterized by arterial fragility and life-threatening vascular complications. Presentation in pediatric age group patients remains rare and is therefore not well characterized.A 14-year-old man presented with severe abdominal and back pain. Imaging revealed a posterior abdominal aortic pseudoaneurysm with retroperitoneal hemorrhage and progressive aortic wall thickening. He underwent urgent open repair with Dacron interposition grafting and visceral artery reconstruction. Postoperative course was complicated by transverse colon perforation requiring partial colectomy and ostomy, as well as left nephrectomy due to renal infarct. Genetic testing identified a novel likely pathogenic collagen type III alpha 1 chain sequence variation, confirming vEDS.This case highlights a severe early-onset phenotype of vEDS and underscores the importance of early recognition, serial imaging, and multidisciplinary management.Unexplained aneurysms/pseudoaneurysms in young patients should raise suspicion for vEDS; early surgery and multidisciplinary care are essential.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cardiac fibrosis is a pivotal pathological process driving heart failure following ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury. STC1 (stanniocalcin-1), a conserved glycoprotein with mitochondrial regulatory functions, remains unexplored in myocardial fibrosis. This study investigates the mechanistic role of cardiomyocyte-derived STC1 in cardiac fibrosis.Mouse models of myocardial I/R injury were established by left anterior descending coronary artery ligation followed by 24-hour reperfusion. Cardiac-specific STC1 knockdown (adeno-associated virus 9-shSTC1) or overexpression (adeno-associated virus 9-STC1) preceded I/R injury induction. Cardiac function was assessed via echocardiography, and fibrosis was quantified histologically (Masson's trichrome, Sirius red) and molecularly (α-SMA [alpha smooth muscle actin], COL1A1 [collagen type I alpha 1 chain], COL3A1 [collagen type III alpha 1 chain], Smad2 [SMAD family member 2]). In vitro, cardiomyocyte-derived conditioned medium was applied to TGF-β (transforming growth factor beta)-stimulated fibroblasts, supplemented with recombinant STC1 for rescue assays. Protein-protein interactions were analyzed via coimmunoprecipitation and domain-deletion mutants.STC1 deficiency exacerbated post-I/R cardiac dysfunction and fibrosis, accompanied by elevated α-SMA, COL1A1, and phosphorylated-Smad2 levels. Conversely, STC1 overexpression attenuated I/R-induced functional decline and fibrosis. In addition, cardiomyocyte-derived STC1 suppressed TGF-β-driven fibroblast activation and Smad2 nuclear translocation. Mechanistically, STC1 directly interacted with the DOCKER domain of DOCK1 (dedicator of cytokinesis 1), disrupting DOCK1/RAC1-GTP (Rac family small GTPase 1 bound to guanosine triphosphate) signaling. Genetic ablation of the DOCKER domain abolished STC1's antifibrotic effects, restoring RAC1-GTP activity and fibrosis markers.Cardiomyocyte-derived STC1 mitigates cardiac fibrosis post I/R by targeting the DOCK1/RAC1 axis via its interaction with the DOCKER domain. These findings identify STC1-DOCK1 as a novel therapeutic pathway for ischemic heart failure.
Collagen is a key factor determining beef toughness. This study compared collagen characteristics in the longissimus lumborum (LL) between Xia'Nan and Chinese Simmental bulls, aiming to clarify their influence on tenderness. The LL muscle of ten 30-month-old bulls from each breed was subjected to a 3-day wet-aging period at 4°C. Proteolysis was assessed using the technique of sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE); total, soluble, and insoluble collagen were quantified via hydroxyproline colorimetric method; type I/III ratios were determined by acetic acid-pepsin extraction and densitometry; and mRNA levels of collagen type I alpha 1 chain (COL1A1), collagen type III alpha 1 chain (COL3A1), and lysyl oxidase (LOX) were measured by quantitative reverse transcription PCR (RT-qPCR). Warner-Bratzler shear force (WBSF) was strongly correlated with total and soluble collagen contents in both breeds (p < 0.05). Compared to Chinese Simmental bulls, Xia'Nan bulls exhibited significantly lower total and insoluble collagen contents, higher soluble collagen, and a lower type I/III ratio (p < 0.05). Furthermore, the expressions of COL1A1, COL3A1 (p < 0.05), and LOX (p < 0.01) were significantly downregulated in the Xia'Nan bulls. Following the aging period, the type I/III ratio increased exclusively in the Chinese Simmental bulls (p < 0.05), whereas Xia'Nan bulls displayed enhanced proteolytic degradation. In conclusion, the superior tenderness of Xia'Nan bulls is attributed to a favorable collagen characteristic, downregulated expression of cross-linking enzymes, and efficient post-mortem proteolysis. These findings provide a molecular basis for utilizing indigenous breeds in high-quality beef production.© 2026 Institute of Food Technologists.
Synthetic ligands of retinoic acid receptor γ (RARγ) and vitamin D receptor (VDR) can act as agonists or antagonists by reshaping receptor conformation and cofactor recruitment, yet the structural and energetic determinants of this selectivity remain incompletely defined. Here, we present an integrated structural and thermodynamic analysis combining conformational characterization, molecular dynamics simulations, and molecular mechanics Poisson-Boltzmann surface area calculations to compare representative agonists and antagonists of human RARγ and VDR. Binding free energies and effective enthalpic contributions were evaluated for selected ligands, whereas the apparent entropic term, estimated indirectly as -TΔSapp = ΔGbind - ΔHeff, was used only as a qualitative internal descriptor. The thermodynamic profiles indicate that effective enthalpic stabilization is a more informative comparative descriptor than binding free energy alone, with clear agonist-antagonist separation for RARγ and a directional, less statistically resolved trend for VDR. These energetic patterns were interpreted alongside ligand-dependent stabilization of helix 12 and receptor-ligand interaction networks. Newly determined MicroED structures of AGN194310 and AGN205728 were incorporated as ligand-specific conformational references, improving structural definition without being treated as direct evidence of receptor-bound bioactive conformations. Comparative analysis of RARγ and VDR suggests that functional selectivity is not governed solely by affinity but emerges from the interplay among ligand-binding energetics, interaction networks, and receptor conformational dynamics. These results provide a retrospective mechanistic benchmark for interpreting agonist- and antagonist-associated behavior in nuclear receptors and may guide future studies on functionally selective modulators.
In this study, we aimed to evaluate the prognostic significance of collagens in patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). Plasma proteomics data from 40 OSCC patients and 33 healthy controls, generated using the Olink Explore 3072 platform, along with microarray gene expression data from 29 OSCC tumours, 21 clinically normal tissues contralateral to tumour (NTCT), and 14 healthy controls, were analysed to assess expression levels of collagens and their associations with clinicopathological variables and survival outcomes. Eleven collagen peptides were detected in plasma. Higher circulating levels of collagen type III alpha 1 chain (COL3A1) propeptides were associated with improved overall survival and longer disease-free time (p < 0.05). Penalised Cox regression using the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) supported COL3A1 propeptide as a survival-associated feature. Comparison of protein profiles between COL3A1-low and COL3A1-high patients identified neutrophil degranulation as the most significantly enriched pathway. Microarray differential expression analysis showed COL3A1 mRNA to be significantly upregulated in tumour tissues compared with NTCT and healthy controls (FDR < 0.05). Circulating COL3A1 propeptide shows potential as a prognostic biomarker for OSCC and may reflect systemic immune-related alterations.© 2026. The Author(s).
Exosomes derived from bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) represent a promising cell-free strategy for intervertebral disc degeneration (IDD). Here, we obtained oxidative stress-preconditioned exosomes (O-Exos) from BMSCs exposed to low-concentration hydrogen peroxide. Compared with exosomes from untreated cells (N-Exos), O-Exos more effectively delayed nucleus pulposus (NP) cell senescence and attenuated IDD in vitro and in vivo. The superior effects of O-Exos were associated with restoration of mitophagy and improved mitochondrial homeostasis in TNF/TNF-α-treated NP cells. BMF (Bcl2 modifying factor) was identified as a functionally relevant downstream target suppressed by O-Exos, and Bmf deficiency promoted mitophagy and alleviated IDD. Further analyses showed that O-Exos relieved the inhibitory effect of BMF on BCL2L13-LC3B coupling, thereby restoring mitophagy. In addition, exosomal Mir29a-3p was required for BMF suppression and the superior activity of O-Exos. Together, these findings identify oxidative stress preconditioning as an effective strategy to enhance exosome potency against IDD.Abbreviations: ACAN: aggrecan; BCL2L13: BCL2 like 13; BMF: Bcl2 modifying factor; BMSCs: bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; BNIP3: BCL2 interacting protein 3; CDKN1A: cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor 1A; CDKN2A: cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor 2A; COL2A1: collagen type II alpha 1 chain; DHI: disc height index; FUNDC1: FUN14 domain containing 1; H2O2: hydrogen peroxide; IDD: intervertebral disc degeneration; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MMP3: matrix metallopeptidase 3; MRI: nuclear magnetic resonance imaging; N-Exos: exosomes derived from untreated BMSCs; NP: nucleus pulposus; O-Exos: exosomes derived from H2O2-preconditioned BMSCs; OCR: oxygen consumption rate; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; ROS: reactive oxygen species; RT-qPCR: reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction; SA-GLB1/β-gal: senescence-associated galactosidase beta 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TNF/TNF-alpha: tumor necrosis factor; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; TP53: tumor protein p53; WT: wild type.
A prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled trial showed reduced retears after arthroscopic rotator cuff (RC) repair in patients without osteoporosis by a systemic single-dose of zoledronic acid. Distinct micro-ribonucleic acids (miRNAs) related to inflammation, fibrosis, and tendon-to-bone healing are associated with RC injuries.To investigate the longitudinal effects of a single-dose of zoledronic acid in patients without osteoporosis undergoing arthroscopic RC repair on circulating miRNAs in order to explore the molecular mechanism of this treatment.Controlled laboratory study.Data were collected in the course of a single-center, prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled, triple-blinded (investigator, surgeon, patient) phase II trial. A total of 80 patients underwent arthroscopic RC repair and were intraoperatively randomized to the zoledronic acid group (n = 40) or the control group (n = 40). Circulating plasma miRNAs were assessed preoperatively, 2 days postoperatively, and 3 months postoperatively using small RNA sequencing and reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR).Six miRNAs were selected for validation by RT-qPCR based on small RNA-sequencing analysis. No statistical differences in miRNA plasma levels were observed preoperatively between the 2 study groups. Two days after surgery, plasma levels were significantly lower for miR-140-3p (P = .047) in the zoledronic acid group. In the control group, plasma levels were significantly lower for miR-29a-3p (P < .001), miR-21-5p (P = .036), miR-192-5p (P = .034), and miR-146a-5p (P < .001) 2 days after surgery. Three months after surgery, miRNA plasma levels of the 2 study groups equalized without any significant differences. Gene target analysis identified collagen type I alpha 1 chain, collagen type III alpha 1 chain, vascular endothelial growth factor, insulin-like growth factor 1, and transforming growth factor-β1 as targets of miRNAs impacted by zoledronic acid.Longitudinal plasma miRNA expressions suggest a molecular response to zoledronic acid, potentially indicating a reduction of inflammation and fibrosis at the enthesis as well as increased collagen synthesis and vascularization, possibly explaining improved tendon-to-bone healing.Zoledronic acid is a safe and easy-to-apply augmentation technique for patients undergoing arthroscopic RC repair.NCT05677152 (ClinicalTrials.gov identifier).
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a chronic disease characterized by the degeneration of articular cartilage and secondary hyperosteogeny, typically located in weight-bearing joints.This study was undertaken to assess the expression profile, the diagnostic value, and the molecular mechanism of miR-584-5p in OA.Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was performed to detect the expression levels of miR-584-5p and hypoxia-inducible factor-1 A (HIF1A) in serum samples from OA patients and healthy controls. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was used to evaluate the diagnostic efficacy of miR-584-5p for OA. Pearson correlation analysis was applied to explore the correlations between miR-584-5p expression and clinical scores (Lysholm, Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC), Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) as well as HIF1A expression. In vitro, human chondrogenic HC-A cells were induced with interleukin-1β (IL-1β) to establish an OA cell model. Cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assay and flow cytometry were used to assess chondrocyte proliferation and apoptosis, respectively. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) kits were employed to quantify the secretion levels of inflammatory factors including interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and IL-1β. Dual-luciferase reporter assay was conducted to verify the direct targeting relationship between miR-584-5p and HIF1A.miR-584-5p was significantly downregulated in OA patients, and its expression level decreased progressively with the increase of Kellgren-Lawrence (K-L) grade. ROC curve analysis confirmed that miR-584-5p had a high diagnostic value for OA with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.897, a sensitivity of 80.2% and a specificity of 86.2%. Pearson correlation analysis showed that miR-584-5p expression was positively correlated with Lysholm scores and negatively correlated with WOMAC and VAS scores in OA patients. In the IL-1β-induced HC-A cell model, miR-584-5p mimic significantly promoted chondrocyte proliferation, inhibited cell apoptosis, and reduced the secretion of IL-6, TNF-α and IL-1β. Additionally, miR-584-5p mimic downregulated the mRNA expression of extracellular matrix (ECM)-degrading enzymes including matrix metalloproteinase 13 (MMP13) and a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs 5 (ADAMTS5), while upregulated the expression of ECM synthesis-related molecules including aggrecan (ACAN) and collagen type II alpha 1 chain (COL2A1). Notably, all these protective effects of miR-584-5p mimic were abrogated by transfection with HIF1A overexpression plasmid (oe-HIF1A).miR-584-5p is a potential novel diagnostic biomarker for OA with high sensitivity and specificity, and its expression level can reflect the clinical severity of OA. Mechanistically, miR-584-5p alleviates IL-1β-induced chondrocyte injury, inflammatory response and ECM metabolic imbalance in OA by directly targeting and inhibiting HIF1A.© 2026. The Author(s).
To investigate the effect of β-Sitosterol on interleukin (IL)-1β-induced chondrocyte injury and the related mechanism.An osteoarthritis model was constructed by treating immortalized human cartilage cells with IL-1β. The identity and purity of β-Sitosterol were confirmed by FTIR, 1H NMR, 13C NMR, RP-HPLC-ELSD, and UPLC-MS before cell experiments. The optimal concentrations of IL-1β and β-Sitosterol for treating cells were determined by qPCR and CCK8 assay. The cells were divided into three groups: Control group, Model group, and Model+β-Sitosterol group. Cell viability was detected by CCK8 assay. The mRNA expression of IL-18, IL-1β and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) was detected by qPCR. Collagen type II alpha 1 chain (COL2A1) and matrix metalloproteinase 13 (MMP13) expression was detected by immunofluorescence. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) and mitochondrial membrane potential were detected by flow cytometry. Malondialdehyde (MDA), Glutathione (GSH) and Fe2+ were detected by ELISA and biochemical test. Mitochondrial structure was observed by transmission electron microscopy, and the protein expression of ferroptosis related factors was detected by Western blot.After induction of chondrocytes with IL-1β, the cell viability was decreased, the gene expression of inflammatory cytokines was increased, the proportion of cells with reduced ROS content and mitochondrial membrane potential were increased, MDA and Fe2+ content were increased, and GSH content was decreased. Mitochondrial structure showed ferroptosis-like changes. The expression of COL2A1, glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11), total nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NRF2), and nuclear NRF2 was decreased. MMP13, ANO6, and p-p38/p38 levels were increased. Treatment of chondrocytes with β-Sitosterol could reverse these changes induced by IL-1β.Spectrally confirmed, high-purity β-Sitosterol alleviated IL-1β-induced chondrocyte injury by suppressing inflammatory activation, extracellular matrix degradation, mitochondrial dysfunction, and ferroptosis-related oxidative damage, suggesting its potential as a candidate compound for osteoarthritis intervention.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Lactate is implicated in several brain diseases; however, its precise role in depression remains to be further elucidated. The current study looks into the role of lactate-associated genes in depression, along with their diagnostic and therapeutic potential.Genes related to lactate were obtained from the Harmonizome database. Depression-related datasets were acquired from the GEO database, and differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified using the limma package. The overlapping genes from the DEGs and lactate-related genes were subjected to enrichment analyses using enrichR. The correlation analysis confirmed the validation of screened core genes via the random forest algorithm. Cytoscape was used for the construction of transcription factors and miRNA-based gene regulatory networks. Receiver operating characteristics (ROC) analysis was used to evaluate diagnostic performance. Molecular docking was performed to predict drug interactions.The lactate-related DEGs were seen to be implicated in processes like negative regulation of the apoptotic process and NOD-like receptor signaling pathways. TLR4 and RB1 were identified as core genes, showing elevated expression and strong diagnostic potential in depression. In addition to the positive correlation, TLR4 was shown to be the target of multiple miRNAs, while RB1 was unveiled to be the target of several transcription factors. Besides, the binding of RB1 (protein: 6C2R) to topotecan and dexamethasone was confirmed, while TLR4 (protein: 4R7N) could bind with Tlr4-IN-C34 and resatorvid.This study successfully identified TLR4 and RB1 as core lactate-related genes in depression, providing a new perspective on elucidating the role of lactate in the pathogenesis of depression.Copyright © 2026 Fengmin Ding et al. Human Mutation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) is one of the most frequently altered genes in bladder cancer, primarily through activating mutations that drive oncogenesis and are enriched in luminal tumors. However, the underlying gene regulatory network (GRN) remains poorly characterized. Here, we constructed an FGFR3-mutated GRN using a bottom-up bioinformatics approach, integrating transcriptomic data from bladder cancer cell lines, FGFR3-mutated tumors, and FGFR3 perturbation experiments in human and mouse models. Using publicly available CRISPR/Cas9 screening data, we identified transcription factors from this GRN that regulate the viability of FGFR3-mutated cells, with a focus on p63 (TP63). We showed that FGFR3 activation upregulates p63 in patient-derived xenografts and cell lines, while single-cell RNA sequencing revealed heterogeneous p63 activation associated with basal differentiation. Functional studies, including TP63 knockdown in FGFR3-dependent in vitro and in vivo models and RNA-seq along with p63 ChIP-seq, demonstrated that p63 directly promotes cell proliferation and migration and uncovered a positive feedback loop between FGFR3 and p63. Together, these findings support p63 as a protumorigenic regulator in FGFR3-mutated tumors despite their luminal differentiation and provide a detailed FGFR3-driven GRN, offering insights into FGFR3-induced oncogenic dependency and potential strategies to circumvent resistance to FGFR inhibitors.
We aimed to evaluate the suitability of archival ureteroscopic (URS) biopsy specimens for fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) biomarker analysis in upper urinary tract urothelial carcinoma. Thirty-six patients with upper urinary tract urothelial carcinoma who underwent diagnostic URS and radical nephroureterectomy (RNU) were included. Among the 36 RNU-derived tissue specimens, 33 (92%) yielded valid FGFR3 RNA test results; the remaining three (8.3%) showed test failure because of undetectable amplification by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Of the 33 RNU specimens with valid amplification, eight (24%) had FGFR3 alterations. Of these eight specimens, two (25%) were valid for FGFR3 RNA testing; one showed positive concordance with the paired RNU specimen, whereas the other did not. The remaining six specimens (75%) showed test failure. Correlation analysis of FGFR3 immunohistochemical staining scores demonstrated a moderate positive correlation between RNU and paired URS specimens (Spearman's ρ = 0.47, P = 0.004). Our findings indicate that URS biopsy specimens are unsuitable for FGFR3 RNA testing but may be useful for protein-based biomarker analysis when RNU specimens are unavailable.© The Author(s) 2026.
The t(4;14) translocation is a high-risk cytogenetic abnormality in multiple myeloma (MM) that results in overexpression of fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) and enhanced MM proliferation, leading to poor prognosis. Herein, we carried out a high-throughput screen on 1855 Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved pharmaceuticals and identified all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), which alone has no anti-MM effect, as a potent drug that enhances the cytotoxic effects of immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) in t(4;14) MM cells. Mechanistically, ATRA activates retinoic acid receptor β (RARβ), which then binds to retinoic acid response elements in the FGFR3 promoter. IMiDs enhanced nuclear translocation of histone deacetylase (HDAC)-5 and 3 by reducing HDAC5 Ser498 phosphorylation levels. RARβ, HDAC5 and HDAC3 formed a co-repressor complex that reduced chromatin accessibility and H3K27 acetylation in FGFR3 promoter, FGFR3 expression, and suppressed phosphoinositide 3-kinase/AKT signaling pathways, leading to more MM cell death. Similarly, CD2314, a selective RARβ agonist, sensitized and resensitized t(4;14) MM cells to IMiDs in vitro and in vivo. Thus, these findings underscore the therapeutic potential of ATRA and RARβ agonists in enhancing the efficacy of IMiD-based treatments for t(4;14) MM and offer a promising strategy to overcome IMiD resistance and improve outcomes in this high-risk subgroup.© 2026. The Author(s).
Immunotherapy resistance presents a formidable challenge in tumor biology. While fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) serves as a pivotal oncogenic driver in a multitude of cancers, the exploration of its role in immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) resistance remains scarce, thus impeding a deeper understanding of the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) in the era of immunotherapy. Employing patient-derived urothelial carcinoma (UC) organoids and co-cultured systems, along with single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), whole-exome sequencing (WES), bulk RNA-seq, and CUT& Tag epigenomics in UC cohorts, we identified and characterized the key downstream mediators of FGFR3. The TIME associated with FGFR3 mutations exhibited a depletion of NK and CD8+ T cells, while simultaneously harboring an accumulation of exhausted effectors, correlating with diminished ICI response. Erdafitinib reprogrammed this "cold" TME into an inflamed state through a novel FGFR3-STAT5-IRF2 signaling cascade. These findings, corroborated by a wealth of evidence, advocate for the combination of FGFR3-targeted therapy with immunotherapy for UC, bridging critical pre-clinical and clinical insights.© 2026 The Author(s). iMeta published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of iMeta Science.
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is a common and highly lethal malignancy. Tribbles pseudokinase 3 (TRIB3) has been reported to exert oncogenic roles in the pathogenesis of multiple tumors; nevertheless, the detailed mechanisms through which TRIB3 drives RCC development remain largely undefined. In this study, qPCR and Western blot were used to quantify the levels of TRIB3, STIP1 homology and U-box containing protein 1 (STUB1), and activating transcription factor 2 (ATF2). Cell proliferation, invasion, stemness, and angiogenic capacity were assessed by MTT assay, flow cytometry, Transwell invasion assay, sphere-formation assay, and tube-formation assay, respectively. The interaction between TRIB3 and STUB1 was examined by co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), and the relationship between TRIB3 and ATF2 was verified using dual-luciferase reporter assays. A xenograft model was employed to evaluate the tumorigenic potential of RCC cells upon STUB1 overexpression. The study found that TRIB3 expression was markedly elevated in RCC. Knockdown of TRIB3 profoundly inhibited cell proliferation, invasion, migration, and stem-like properties, while simultaneously inducing apoptosis and promoting ferroptosis. TRIB3 physically interacted with STUB1 and was poly-ubiquitinated and degraded by this E3 ligase; consequently, STUB1 overexpression suppressed RCC progression both in vitro and in vivo by targeting TRIB3. Conversely, ATF2 transcriptionally activated TRIB3 expression, and enforced TRIB3 expression partially rescued the inhibitory effects of ATF2 knockdown in RCC cells. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that TRIB3 drives RCC progression; STUB1 curbs RCC by degrading TRIB3, whereas ATF2 promotes RCC via transcriptional activation of TRIB3. Thus, modulating TRIB3 expression may offer a novel therapeutic strategy for RCC.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Human Cell Society.
Stroke remains a leading cause of long-term disability, and recovery is often limited by impaired neurorestoration and glial scar-mediated inhibition of axonal regeneration. Although fibroblast growth factor 17 (FGF17) regulates oligodendrocyte plasticity during aging, its therapeutic potential and underlying mechanisms in ischemic stroke remain unclear. We investigated whether FGF17 could promote functional recovery by enhancing neuronal restoration and overcoming glial scar-associated inhibition. Fgf17-positive cell distribution was mapped using Fgf17-reporter mice (Fgf17CreERT2/+;Rosa-CAG-LSL-tdTomato). Focal ischemia was induced in the motor cortex and anterior cingulate cortex of wild-type and Fgf17-deficient (Fgf17-/-) mice via photothrombosis. Recombinant FGF17 was administered intranasally. Functional recovery was evaluated using motor and cognitive behavioral tests. Mechanistic studies were performed using viral tracing, immunofluorescence, and molecular assays focusing on the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (Erk)-serum response factor (SRF) and phospholipase C gamma (PLCγ)-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) signaling pathways. FGF17 was predominantly expressed in neurons, whereas its receptor, fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3), was widely distributed. Fgf17-/- mice exhibited larger infarcts and more severe functional deficits, whereas intranasal FGF17 significantly improved motor and cognitive outcomes in both wild-type and knockout mice. Mechanistically, FGF17 promoted oligodendrogenesis and myelin repair by upregulating SRF through the Erk signaling pathway. Concurrently, FGF17 activated the PLCγ-adenylyl cyclase axis, increased intracellular cAMP levels, and enabled axonal regeneration within the inhibitory microenvironment through downregulation of mRNA levels of oligodendrocyte myelin glycoprotein, neurite outgrowth inhibitor A, and myelin-associated glycoprotein. In addition, FGF17 enhanced neuronal survival and preserved dendritic spines via the PI3K-Akt pathway. Overall, FGF17 promotes oligodendrogenesis and enhances the intrinsic regenerative capacity of neurons. These findings identify FGF17 signaling as a promising therapeutic target for neurorestoration after stroke.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides) is an economically important freshwater aquaculture species, yet recurrent outbreaks of Largemouth Bass Ranavirus (LMBV) continue to impair production and cause substantial losses. The genetic basis of host variation in LMBV resistance remains insufficiently characterized. Here, we applied a multi-model genome-wide association study (GWAS) to identify loci associated with resistance following a controlled challenge with the LMBV-23PY strain. Whole-genome resequencing was performed for 146 phenotyped fish, including 72 susceptible and 74 resistant individuals. After stringent quality control, 877,262 high-quality variants were retained and tested using six GWAS models. Across binary survival status and survival time phenotypes, 32 shared suggestive variants were consistently detected across models, representing suggestive loci for LMBV-23PY resistance. Genes within ±50 kb of these loci were annotated, and functional enrichment highlighted immune- and redox-related biological processes. Three prioritized candidates-GSTT3L (glutathione S-transferase theta-3-like), CGRP2 (calcitonin gene-related peptide 2), and NPPC (natriuretic peptide C)-were associated with pathways involved in oxidative stress responses and immune regulation. Collectively, these results provide insight into the genetic architecture of LMBV-23PY resistance in largemouth bass and identify suggestive variants and associated candidate genes for downstream validation, functional interrogation, and the development of marker-assisted and genome-enabled breeding strategies.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) alterations and ERBB2 (HER2) amplification are clinically actionable genomic events in metastatic urothelial carcinoma (mUC). However, their prevalence and overlap in metastatic-specific cohorts remain incompletely defined. We evaluated their nationwide distribution and co-occurrence using the Japanese C-CAT registry.This retrospective study included patients with histologically confirmed mUC who underwent comprehensive genomic profiling with tissue-based FoundationOne assays between January 2019 and June 2025. FGFR3 positivity was defined as pathogenic mutations or fusions meeting companion diagnostic criteria, and HER2 positivity as ERBB2 amplification. Associations with clinicopathological variables were assessed using logistic regression. Co-occurrence was analyzed with Fisher's exact test.Among 1014 patients, FGFR3 alterations were identified in 157 (15.5%) and HER2 amplification in 150 (14.8%). Concurrent alterations occurred in 13 patients (1.3%). Under statistical independence, the expected co-occurrence rate was 2.3%; the observed frequency was significantly lower (P = 0.010; crude OR 0.47). In multivariable analysis, female sex (OR 0.58, 95% CI 0.36-0.93; P = 0.024) and upper tract origin (OR 0.57, 95% CI 0.39-0.84; P = 0.005) were independently associated with lower odds of HER2 amplification. HER2 amplification was independently associated with reduced odds of FGFR3 alterations (adjusted OR 0.49, 95% CI 0.27-0.88; P = 0.018).In this nationwide metastatic cohort, FGFR3 alterations and ERBB2 amplification were each detected in approximately 15% of cases and showed a significant but partial negative association. These findings clarify the molecular epidemiology of mUC and support comprehensive genomic profiling to guide biomarker-driven therapy.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Society of Clinical Oncology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42402859 is a review article
Understanding sex determination mechanism is crucial for elucidating sexual evolution and sex control in animal husbandry. In this study, data showed that doublesex and mab-3 related transcription factor 2 (DMRT2) expression in gonads was developmentally regulated in a sex- and lateralization-specific manner. The nuclear localization signal of DMRT2 was identified, showing high expression in the female gonadal cortex. Transcriptome and chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by sequencing (ChIP-seq) analyses screened and validated target genes (component of inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase complex (CHUK) and SRY-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9)) and downstream signaling pathways (e.g., sex determination, cell apoptosis, and inflammation related). It was also validated that DMRT2 could promote cell proliferation and inhibit apoptosis. The effect of DMRT2 on apoptosis and inflammation was mediated by CHUK. These factors may potentially regulate apoptosis pathway and Wnt signaling pathway. In conclusion, DMRT2 participates in sex differentiation and development of chicken gonads by regulating proliferation, apoptosis, and inflammatory pathways through target genes such as CHUK and SOX9. The novel mechanism of DMRT2 regulating avian gonadal differentiation and development may deepen understanding of vertebrate sexual evolution and facilitate sex control in poultry.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) and lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM) lack well-defined cellular origins, limiting treatment options. In this report, scRNA-seq of Tsc2+/- mouse renal cystadenomas revealed an 80-fold increase in a tumor cell subpopulation with neural crest features, expressing known cranial neural crest genes as SRY box transcription factor 9 (Sox9), transcription factor activator protein (Tfap2a), and candidate neurocristopathy markers, osteopontin (Spp1), lipocalin-2 (Lcn2), clusterin (Clu), and cytokeratin 18 (Krt18). These signatures were validated in mouse tumors and LAM patient lesions and serum, identifying a tumor phenotype distinct from traditional VEGFD detection. Pathway analysis indicated activation of WNT/SHH signaling, nephric duct formation, and protumorigenic signals, with transcription factor 7 (Tcf7) and ephrin-A ligands as key upstream regulators. Spp1 KO in cranial neural crest cells (CNCCs) significantly reduced proliferation (28%-33%), migration (54%-76%), and invasion (29%-64%) without affecting viability, while Tsc2 KO increased viability 3- to 6-fold with minimal effect on chemotaxis. Elevated serum levels of SPP1 and KRT18 in 1 subset of patients with LAM, decreased LCN2 in nearly all cases, and distinct increases in VEGFD in a separate subset suggest complementary roles for these biomarkers. Overall, findings support a neurocristopathic model of tumor development in TSC and LAM and identify potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets beyond mTOR inhibition.
Postpartum mammary gland involution is a coordinated process of cell death and remodeling that returns the tissue to a near pre-pregnant state following lactation and weaning. In models of postpartum breast cancer, defined as breast cancer diagnosed in women under age 45 and within 10 years of recent childbirth, involution induces durable phenotypes in breast tumor cells that promote progression and are associated with increased risk for therapeutic resistance, metastasis, and death in patients. SRY-Box Transcription Factor 9 (SOX9), a known regulator of mammary stem and progenitor cells, also promotes resistance to therapy and metastasis in breast cancers. Yet the contribution of SOX9 to the involution process is not well understood. We utilized single-cell RNA sequencing of mouse mammary glands during involution to delineate Sox9-expressing cell populations during lactation and involution. We found that Sox9 mRNA is primarily expressed in luminal progenitor cells that are largely absent during lactation and present during early involution. We also reveal that Sox9 is involved in a shift in cell state from lactational to non-lactational and is expressed in the surviving cells during involution. Prior work revealed that Semaphorin-7a (SEMA7A) also promotes cancer stem cell and prosurvival phenotypes in luminal progenitor cells during involution, and we observe a population of luminal progenitor cells that co-expresses Sox9 and Sema7a during involution. Mechanistically, we demonstrate that knockdown of Sox9 in cultured mammary epithelial cells results in increased SEMA7A expression, mesenchymal phenotypes, and loss of lactogenic differentiation capacity, identifying a potential regulatory axis where SOX9 balances SEMA7A expression in normal mammary epithelium and that disruption of this balance results in a dedifferentiated state that resembles mesenchymal cells. We validated a spatial relationship between SOX9 and SEMA7A proteins in a unique set of breast tissue samples from healthy human donors to show co-expression during early involution. In breast cancer datasets, we observe elevated expression of SOX9 and SEMA7A in triple-negative breast cancers, as well as in the mesenchymal subtype of triple-negative breast cancers, suggesting disruption of this regulatory axis in breast cancer. Finally, we observe that co-expression increases metastatic risk in both estrogen receptor-negative and -positive breast cancers. Collectively, these findings define a novel SOX9-SEMA7A relationship in healthy mammary tissues and illustrate how studies of normal progenitor cell phenotypes can delineate cellular mechanisms that contribute to breast tumor progression.
WNT2B is canonically characterized as a secreted WNT-family ligand, which is transported to the extracellular space via the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-Golgi pathway and binds to cell surface FZDs (frizzled class receptors) to trigger downstream signaling cascades. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized non-secretory intracellular function of WNT2B in impairing endosomal trafficking to inhibit macroautophagy/autophagy, as well as a non-canonical LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion mechanism for WNT2B. Specifically, the non-secretory intracellular pool of WNT2B via its conserved middle domain (MD) binds to the spectrin repeat domain (SRD) of WASHC5, competitively displacing WASHC1 and thereby disrupting WASH complex assembly and inhibiting WASHC1-mediated actin polymerization on early endosomes. This disruption impairs endosomal cargo trafficking, including the core autophagy protein ATG9A, leading to defective autophagy initiation and subsequent accumulation of pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic factors in fibroblasts. We validated this mechanism in vivo using a TNBS-induced mouse model of chronic colitis. Fibroblast-specific wnt2b deletion restores autophagy, reduces pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion, and ameliorates intestinal fibrosis. Consistently, in Crohn disease (CD) patient tissues, elevated WNT2B in fibrotic regions negatively correlates with autophagy activity, and positively correlates with pro-fibrotic phenotypes, and clinical disease severity. Moreover, we identify a novel LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion pathway for WNT2B, which is distinct from the conventional ER-to-Golgi-dependent protein secretion. Collectively, our study delineates a novel non-canonical WNT2B-WASH complex-ATG9A regulatory axis through which WNT2B impairs endosomal trafficking and disrupts autophagy, ultimately amplifying inflammation and fibrosis. This study suggests that WNT2B may serve as a promising therapeutic target for CD and autophagy-associated fibrotic disorders.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; AAV: adeno-associated virus; ACTA2: actin alpha 2, smooth muscle; ARPC2: actin related protein 2/3 complex subunit 2; ATG: autophagy related; CCN3: cellular communication network factor 3; CD: Crohn disease; CK666: 2-fluoro-N-[2-(2-methyl-1H-indol-3-yl)ethyl]benzamide; COL1A1: collagen type I alpha 1 chain; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CTNNB1: catenin beta 1; DBcAMP: dibutyryl cyclic adenosine monophosphate; DPT: dermatopontin; EEA1: early endosome antigen 1; EGFR: epidermal growth factor receptor; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complexes required for transport; EV: extracellular vesicle; FRAP: fluorescence recovery after photobleaching; FL: full length; FZD: frizzled class receptor; GST: glutathione S-transferase; HIF: human intestinal fibroblast; HMGB1: high mobility group box 1; IKBKB: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit beta; IL6: interleukin 6; LDELS: LC3-dependent EV loading and secretion; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MD: middle domain; MEFs: mouse embryonic fibroblasts; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MVB: multivesicular body; NFKB: nuclear factor kappa B; NFKBIA: NFKB inhibitor alpha; PDCD6IP: programmed cell death 6 interacting protein; PLA: proximity ligation assay; RELA/p65: RELA proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; SAFB: scaffold attachment factor B; SES-CD: Simple Endoscopic Score for Crohn disease; SIM: super-resolution structured illumination microscopy; SMAD3: SMAD family member 3; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; SRD: spectrin repeat domain; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TFRC: transferrin receptor; TGFB1: transforming growth factor beta 1; TGOLN2: trans-golgi network protein 2; TNBS: 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; VCA: Verprolin homology, Central and Acidic; WASHC: WASH complex subunit; WLS: Wnt ligand secretion mediator; WCL: whole cell lysates; WNT: Wnt family member; WT, wild type.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42220428 is a review article
Colorectal cancer (CRC) exhibits substantial interpatient heterogeneity and is driven by intricate crosstalk between tumor-intrinsic mutations and the tumor microenvironment (TME), yet the mechanisms by which specific genetic alterations remodel the TME and regulate tumor stemness remain elusive. The SRY-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9) is a key regulator of intestinal homeostasis, with mutations implicated in CRC progression, but its single-cell level effects on TME dynamics have not been fully elucidated. To dissect the heterogeneity and cell-cell interactions underlying SOX9 mutation-driven CRC progression, we integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data of 23 CRC tumor samples with bulk sequencing and mutation data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) using the Scissor algorithm. We identified a malignant epithelial subpopulation (Scissor+) specifically associated with SOX9 mutations, which exhibits enhanced stemness signatures. Further, we predicted a significant upregulation of the COL1A1-CD44 axis in SOX9-mutant tumors via CellChat, which was supported by immunohistochemical analyses in patient tissues and mouse xenograft models. By integrating stemness-related genes and fibroblast-derived ligands, we established a 172-gene fibroblast-stemness signature that was associated with overall survival, recurrence-free survival, and disease-specific survival across multiple independent CRC cohorts. Functional validation via CD44 knockdown and in vivo xenograft assays confirmed that the COL1A1-CD44 axis mediates SOX9 mutation-driven stemness maintenance and tumor progression. Collectively, our data enhance understanding of how SOX9 mutations remodel the TME, pinpoint the COL1A1-CD44 axis as a promising therapeutic candidate for SOX9-mutant CRC, and support precise patient stratification and targeted interventions.© 2026. The Author(s).
Despite the widespread use of progesterone or progesterone receptor (PGR) blockers as contraceptives, the complete set of PGR-regulated genes and their roles in human ovulatory follicles remain unidentified. Here, we identified the PGR-regulated transcriptome, revealing numerous genes involved in metabolism, steroidogenesis, signaling activation, cell cycle regulation, and transcriptional control during ovulation using integrative omics and a primary human granulosa cell model that recapitulates the in vivo ovulatory phenomenon. These results led us to discover SRY-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9) as a human-specific, PGR-target gene during ovulation. Further functional studies showed that SOX9 regulates the expression of steroidogenesis-related genes, impacting progesterone production. In summary, we mapped the full spectrum of PGR-responsive genes in human ovulatory follicles and identified SOX9 as a human-specific mediator of the ovulatory process. These data provide critical insights into PGR-regulated ovulatory pathways, laying the foundation for developing targeted therapeutic strategies for infertility treatment and contraception.© 2026 The Authors.
Krüppel-like factor 15 is a metabolism-related transcription factor that has been implicated in the regulation of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. This study aimed to elucidate its function in cartilage, particularly its interaction with β-catenin, using inducible cartilage-specific knockout mice. Krüppel-like factor 15 knockout mice and control mice underwent destabilization of medial meniscal surgery to induce osteoarthritis. Histological analysis and immunohistochemistry were carried out, along with in vitro co-immunoprecipitation, double immunofluorescence, and subcellular fractionation, and a dual-luciferase reporter assay. The effects of Wnt3A stimulation and treatment with Wnt/β-catenin inhibitors were evaluated. Knockout mice showed significantly more cartilage degeneration at eight weeks after surgery when compared with control mice. Knockout mice also showed elevated Osteoarthritis Research Society International scores and increased expression of β-catenin, matrix metalloprotease-13, and a disintegrin-like metalloprotease with thrombospondin motifs-5, along with decreased expression of SRY-box transcription factor 9. Krüppel-like factor 15 was seen to physically interact and colocalize with β-catenin in chondrocyte nuclei. Its deficiency promoted canonical Wnt/β-catenin pathway activation and nuclear β-catenin accumulation. Consistently, dual-luciferase reporter assays demonstrated increased β-catenin/TCF transcriptional activity in Krüppel-like factor 15-deficient chondrocytes, which was further enhanced by Wnt3A stimulation. Wnt3A stimulation amplified catabolic gene expression and suppressed anabolic factor expression. However, administration of a Wnt/β-catenin signaling inhibitor canceled out these effects. This study indicates that Krüppel-like factor 15 interacts with β-catenin and functions as a negative regulator of Wnt/β-catenin signaling in cartilage, maintaining matrix homeostasis, and suppressing osteoarthritis progression. Deficiency of Krüppel-like factor 15 promotes catabolism and inhibits anabolism mediated by β-catenin in cartilage. These findings suggest that Krüppel-like factor 15 may be a potential therapeutic target for osteoarthritis, either by restoring its function or enhancing its interaction with β-catenin.© 2026. The Author(s).
UVB induces an epidermal damage response, including keratinocyte hyperplasia, immune cell infiltration, and the recruitment of follicular melanocyte stem cells to the interfollicular epidermis. In this study, we establish the oncofetal chromatin remodeling factor Hmga2 (high mobility group AT-hook 2) as a regulator of these phenotypes through a cAMP-driven process. In this study, we identify somatic tissue expression of Hmga2 in the basal layer of hyperplastic UVB-exposed keratinocytes. Loss of Hmga2 results in the near absence of epidermal hyperplasia, cutaneous neutrophil infiltration, and melanocyte stem cell migration to the interfollicular epidermis. RNA sequencing of UVB-exposed keratinocytes from wild-type and Hmga2 loss-of-function models reveals increased expression of Adora1 (adenosine A1 receptor), a negative regulator of cAMP. Administration of the cAMP pathway activator forskolin to Hmga2-/- animals is sufficient to rescue melanocyte stem cell migration, thus highlighting the Hmga2-cAMP axis as a regulator in the cutaneous UVB response.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Loss of proteostasis leads to the accumulation of aberrant proteins, including aggregated proteins and amyloid fibrils, contributing to various diseases. Protein quality control systems are essential for maintaining proteostasis. Although intracellular mechanisms are well characterized, pathways responsible for the degradation of aberrant proteins outside the cell remain poorly understood. We previously identified the chaperone/carrier- and receptor-mediated extracellular protein degradation pathway, in which the extracellular chaperone clusterin binds misfolded proteins and the resulting complex is delivered to lysosomes via endocytosis. However, it remains unclear whether other factors are involved in this pathway. To identify novel regulators, plasma factors binding serum amyloid A1 were investigated. Glycosylphosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase D1 (GPLD1) was found to directly bind serum amyloid A1 and promote its lysosomal degradation. This activity was independent of GPLD1's cleavage activity for GPI-anchored proteins. Furthermore, GPLD1 mediates lysosomal degradation of misfolded proteins, with cell surface heparan sulfate acting as its receptor. Our data demonstrate that GPLD1 is a novel scavenger carrier with substrate specificity distinct from clusterin, responsible for degrading extracellular aberrant proteins.© 2026 Tsuchiya et al.
Physical activity (PA) has numerous positive health effects, including improvements in cognitive function. PA stimulates the release of glycosylphosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase D1 (GPLD1) from the liver, resulting in hippocampal neurogenesis in mice and improved cognition. Interestingly, PA also increases plasma GPLD1 in healthy humans, suggesting a role in cognition, but regulatory factors modulating its concentrations remain unclear. We investigated whether different PA modes, diseases (obesity, hypertension, and diabetes), and age affect plasma GPLD1 levels using three different study cohorts. Plasma GPLD1 levels were analyzed in three studies cohorts comprised of 1) young adults (25 yrs) performing moderate exercise, 2) elderly (68.9 yrs) and 3) of prediabetic subjects (59.4 yrs) performing different habitual PA. We found that prediabetic subjects had higher plasma GPLD1 levels than elderly and young adults. Elderly with diabetes showed significantly higher GPLD1 levels than non-diabetic subjects. In elderly, plasma GPLD1 correlated negatively with average steps, but there was no association after taking their diabetes status into account. GPLD1 exhibited a positive correlation with age in elderly with normal glucose tolerance, and with BMI in subjects with impaired glucose tolerance. Average step numbers negatively correlated with BMI and diastolic BP in the elderly, and BMI in prediabetic subjects. BMI was positively correlated with both diastolic and systolic BP in elderly subjects, and with diastolic BP in young adults. In conclusion age and diabetes affect plasma GPLD1 levels in humans. Age is one of the determining factors, as moderate exercise in young adults did not change plasma GPLD1 levels. Habitual physical activity did not alter plasma GPLD1 levels in individuals with prediabetes or diabetes. The release of GPLD1 into the blood and its mechanistic influences on cognitive functions would need further investigation in humans.Copyright: © 2026 Raza et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Myelodysplastic syndromes are clonal hematopoietic stem cell disorders characterized by multistep molecular evolution and a variable risk of leukemic transformation. Given this prognostic heterogeneity, accurate risk stratification is essential for clinical decision-making. We developed ProgEvo, a proprietary framework that infers molecular evolutionary trajectories and integrates them with clinical data to improve prognostic accuracy.ProgEvo was trained on 2519 patients in cBioPortal (https://www.cbioportal.org) and validated using two external cohorts: Genomed4All (2043 patients) and a Moffitt Cancer Center (MCC) cohort (2157 patients). Directional evolutionary routes were inferred and selected for prognostic modeling if they were consistently associated with leukemia-free survival. A multivariable feature selection strategy was applied to integrate evolution-consistent variables into the existing IPSS-M model.ProgEvo identified 1765 gene co-occurrences aggregated into 45 directional evolutionary routes. Of these, 18 were validated in the Genomed4All cohort. Five evolution-informed variables, two directional routes (Additional Sex Combs-Like 1 [ASXL1]→KRAS Proto-Oncogene [KRAS] and Serine and Arginine-Rich Splicing Factor 2 [SRSF2]→NRAS Proto-Oncogene [NRAS]), one co-occurrence (NRAS/RUNX Family Transcription Factor 1 [RUNX1]), and two early mutations (ATRX [ATRX Chromatin Remodeler] and Janus Kinase 2 [JAK2]) were integrated into IPSS-M to generate IPSS-M-Evo. The model with "-Evo" improved discrimination for both leukemia-free survival and overall survival, with over 40% of patients restratified in the Genomed4All data. The performance of the model was further confirmed in the MCC cohort.ProgEvo enabled inference of a molecular evolution model and integration of evolution-informed covariates into clinical prognostic frameworks, supporting the development of the IPSS-M-Evo model. A free web-based tool allows clinicians to calculate the IPSS-M-Evo score and match individual mutational profiles to cohort-derived evolutionary trajectories (https://evoclin.unimib.it/tools/evolution-graphs.html and https://evoclin.unimib.it/tools/ipssmevo.html). (Funded by the European Union and others.).
A recent study by Bieri et al. shows that exercise elevates hepatic glycosylphosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase D1 (GPLD1), which cleaves endothelial tissue-nonspecific alkaline phosphatase (TNAP) to rejuvenate cerebrovascular signaling, enhance cognition in aging, and attenuate Alzheimer's-related pathology. This liver-to-brain enzymatic axis positions hepatokines as potent mediators of exercise-induced neuroprotection, which redefines systemic metabolism as a driver of brain resilience.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study investigated the therapeutic potential of exercise training and the associated role of Glycosylphosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase D1 (GPLD1) in an experimental Alzheimer’s disease (AD) model. Using a D-galactose/AlCl3 induced rodent model, we evaluated behavioral impairments, AD pathological markers, and the expression of key signaling pathways linked to neurodegeneration and neuroprotection, alongside and neurotrophic factors. Male rats were divided into Control, AD, Exercise, and AD + Exercise groups. The AD model exhibited significant deficits in locomotor activity, exploratory behavior, and spatial learning/memory, alongside elevated hippocampal Aβ1–42, tau protein, AChE activity. This was accompanied by overactivation of pathways implicated in neuroinflammation and pathology (NF-κB, mTOR, GSK-3β), and downregulation of pathways crucial for neuronal survival and plasticity (Wnt3a/β-catenin, PI3K/Akt), in addition to reduced GPLD1 and BDNF. Exercise intervention significantly ameliorated these behavioral deficits, increased hippocampal BDNF, GPLD1, and restored activity in pro-survival pathways (Wnt3a/β-catenin, PI3K/Akt) while reducing AD pathology markers. Notably, the AD + Exercise group demonstrated substantial recovery in most parameters compared to the AD group. Furthermore, plasma and liver GPLD1 levels were markedly upregulated by exercise. These findings collectively suggest that exercise training is associated with robust neuroprotection, correlating with systemic GPLD1 upregulation, and highlights the GPLD1 axis for future therapeutic investigation in AD.
Elite training induces profound physiological adaptations, yet whether these changes manifest as stable circulating proteomes remains unclear. This study characterized serum proteomic profiles in male and female Olympic-level athletes to identify biomarkers associated with long-term endurance and strength training.Cross-sectional study in Olympic-level athletes and sedentary controls.Resting serum samples were collected from male and female marathon runners and weightlifters (with 5-15 years of training), alongside age- and sex-matched sedentary individuals. Proteomic profiling was performed using tandem mass spectrometry. Data were processed with MaxQuant and analyzed using Perseus. Selected proteins were confirmed using antibody-based assays.Among 301 identified protein groups, 36 showed significant differences between groups. Apolipoprotein A-IV (APOA4) was elevated in athletes, particularly marathoners, suggesting cardiovascular adaptation to endurance training. Fibronectin 1 (FN1) was reduced in weightlifters, consistent with vascular remodeling associated with resistance training. Marathoners exhibited higher levels of von Willebrand factor (VWF) and glycosylphosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase D1 (GPLD1), and lower levels of galectin-3-binding protein (LGAS3BP) and leucine-rich alpha-2-glycoprotein 1 (LRG1), indicating immunomodulatory effects of oxidative training. Weightlifters showed reduced levels of GPLD1 and extracellular matrix protein 1 (ECM1), reflecting distinct remodeling pathways. FN1, APOA4, VWF, LGALS3BP and ECM1 levels were further confirmed.Endurance and resistance training elicit modality-specific serum proteomic adaptations that reflect vascular, endothelial, and hemostatic remodeling. These molecular signatures, observed in both sexes, highlight stable changes induced by chronic training and may inform cardiovascular prevention strategies and evidence-based approaches in sports science to optimize training and performance.Copyright © 2026 Sports Medicine Australia. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Mammarenaviruses (MaAv) cause persistent infection in their natural rodent hosts across the world and, via zoonotic events, can cause severe disease in humans. Thus, the MaAv Lassa virus (LASV) in Western Africa and the Junin virus (JUNV) in the Argentinean Pampas cause hemorrhagic fever diseases with significant case fatality rates in their endemic regions. In addition, the globally distributed MaAv lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) is an underrecognized human pathogen of clinical significance capable of causing devastating infections in neonates and immunocompromised individuals. Despite their impact on human health, there are currently no FDA-approved vaccines or specific antiviral treatments for MaAv infections. Existing anti-MaAv therapies are limited to the off-label use of ribavirin, whose efficacy remains controversial; hence, the development of novel therapeutics to combat human pathogenic MaAv is vital. We employed a high-throughput cell-based infection assay to screen the Pandemic Response Box, a collection of 400 diverse compounds with established antimicrobial activity, for MaAv inhibitors. We identified Ro-24-7429, an antagonist of the HIV-1 Tat protein and RUNX family transcription factor 1 inhibitor; WO 2006118607 A2, a dihydroorotate dehydrogenase inhibitor; and verdinexor, a novel selective inhibitor of nuclear export (SINE) targeting the XPO1/CRM1, as potent anti-MaAv compounds. Consistent with their distinct validated targets, verdinexor and WO 2006118607 A2 exhibited very strong synergistic antiviral activity when used in combination therapy. Our findings pave the way for the development of verdinexor as a potent host-directed antiviral against MaAv, which could be integrated into the development of combination therapy with direct- or host-acting antivirals to combat human pathogenic MaAv.
The relation between minimal change disease (MCD) and primary focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) (pFSGS) remains debatable, and the recent discovery of antinephrin and antislit antibodies, supports the hypothesis of a continuum disease. However, the overall expression of podocyte proteins in these disease states is not known.In this observational proteomic study, we used laser microdissection and mass spectrometry (LMD/MS) to determine the proteomic profile of podocyte proteins in kidney biopsies of adult patients with MCD (n = 6), pFSGS (n = 7), secondary FSGS (sFSGS) (n = 10), and genetic FSGS (gFSGS) (n = 6). Time-zero kidney transplant (T0) (n = 6), IgA nephropathy (IgAN) (n = 5) and membranous nephropathy (MN) (n = 8) served as nonproteinuric and proteinuric controls, respectively. MS results were expressed as total spectrum representing the relative abundance of the specific protein. In addition, immunofluorescence (IF) staining assessing nephrin (NPHS1) and podocin (NPHS2) were performed.LMD/MS show moderate baseline total spectrum of podocyte proteins, NPHS1, NPHS2, CD2-associated protein, alpha-actinin-2, inverted formin-2 (INF2), and dystroglycan 1 (DAG1) in T0 and MN controls. In contrast, there was a significant loss of all 6 podocyte proteins in MCD, pFSGS, sFSGS, and gFSGS but not in MN cases. IF staining confirmed podocyte loss of NPHS1 and NPHS2 in MCD, pFSGS, sFSGS, and gFSGS but not in T0 or MN.LMD/MS and IF staining show significant and comparable loss of podocyte proteins involving the slit diaphragm and actin cytoskeleton in MCD, pFSGS, sFSGS, and gFSGS suggesting a common final pathway of podocyte injury. Surprisingly, despite similar degrees of proteinuria, MN was not associated with significant loss of podocyte proteins.© 2025 International Society of Nephrology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Mammarenaviruses (MaAv) cause persistent infection in their natural rodent hosts across the world and via zoonotic events can cause severe disease in humans. Thus, the MaAv Lassa virus (LASV) in Western Africa and Junin virus (JUNV) in the Argentinean Pampas cause hemorrhagic fever diseases with significant case fatality rates in their endemic regions. In addition, the globally distributed MaAv lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) is an underrecognized human pathogen of clinical significance capable of causing devastating infections in neonates and immunocompromised individuals. Despite their impact on human health, there are currently no FDA-approved vaccines or specific antiviral treatments for MaAv infections. Existing anti-MaAv therapies are limited to the off-label use of ribavirin whose efficacy remains controversial, hence, the significance of developing novel therapeutics to combat human pathogenic MaAv. We employed a high-throughput cell-based infection assay to screen the Pandemic Response Box, a collection of 400 diverse compounds with established antimicrobial activity, for MaAv inhibitors. We identified Ro-24-7429, an antagonist of the HIV-1 Tat protein and RUNX Family Transcription Factor 1 inhibitor; WO 2006118607 A2, a dihydroorotate dehydrogenase inhibitor; and verdinexor, a novel selective inhibitor of nuclear export (SINE) targeting the CRM1/XPO1, as potent anti-MaAv compounds. Consistent with their distinct validated targets, verdinexor and WO 2006118607 A2 exhibited a very strong synergistic antiviral activity when used in combination therapy. Our findings pave the way for the development of verdinexor as a potent host-directed antiviral against MaAv, which could be integrated into the development of combination therapy with direct-or host-acting antivirals to combat human pathogenic MaAv.
Prolonged activation of hepatocyte transforming growth factor β signaling has been identified as a key driver of hepatic stellate cell activation, leading to liver fibrosis in chronic liver diseases. However, the mechanisms by which overactivation of transforming growth factor β signaling within hepatocytes promotes hepatic stellate cell activation and liver fibrosis remain poorly understood. The expression of oxyterol-binding protein related 3 is markedly induced in human fatty liver samples. However, the regulation and function of hepatic oxyterol-binding protein related 3 in the pathogenesis of liver fibrosis are currently unknown.Primary mouse hepatocytes were used to examine the effects of transforming growth factor β on oxyterol-binding protein related 3 messenger RNA and protein expression. Adenovirus-mediated overexpression or knockdown of Orp3 was used to manipulate hepatocyte Orp3 expression, and the effects on transforming growth factor β signaling, transforming growth factor β-induced profibrogenic factor expression, and in vivo liver fibrosis development were assessed. Crosstalk between hepatocyte oxyterol-binding protein related 3 and hepatic stellate cells was examined using a conditioned medium transfer system.Transforming growth factor β induces messenger RNA and protein expression of Orp3 in mouse hepatocytes primarily via the noncanonical transforming growth factor β pathway that involves p38/c-Jun N-terminal kinase and E2F transcription factor 1. Elevated hepatic expression of Orp3 was detected in mouse models of diet-induced liver fibrosis and in livers from human patients with alcoholic steatohepatitis. Data mining of a small nuclear RNA sequencing database on human metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis samples revealed that ORP3 transcripts are enriched in hepatocytes, endothelial cells, and hepatic stellate cells. In vitro analysis showed that oxyterol-binding protein related 3 is both necessary and sufficient for transforming growth factor β-induced expression of profibrogenic factors, notably Thbs1 and Ctgf, in hepatocytes. Overexpression of oxyterol-binding protein related 3 in hepatocytes enhances hepatic stellate cell activation in an in vitro medium-transfer experiment, in part via connective tissue growth factor. Furthermore, acute hepatic Orp3 depletion protects mice from hepatotoxin carbon tetrachloride-induced liver fibrosis. Mechanistically, the profibrogenic action of hepatocyte oxyterol-binding protein related 3 depends on stabilization of Yes-associated protein, a key driver of liver fibrosis.Oxyterol-binding protein related 3 is a novel target gene induced by transforming growth factor β signaling within hepatocytes. Oxyterol-binding protein related 3 then promotes transforming growth factor β's fibrogenic actions by stimulating hepatic stellate cell activation and liver fibrosis in a feed-forward loop.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study investigated proteomic alterations in the pulmonary circulation of patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension associated with systemic sclerosis (PAH-SSc) by analyzing the transpulmonary protein gradient and comparing the proteomic profiles with systemic sclerosis (SSc) without PAH. Twenty women were included (10 PAH-SSc, 64.6 ± 10.8 years; 10 SSc, 62.8 ± 11.5 years). The transpulmonary gradient was defined as the difference in biomarker concentrations between wedge-position and pulmonary artery blood samples. Peptides were analysed using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, and differentially abundant proteins were identified with Proteome Discoverer. Protein-protein interaction networks were generated with STRING and visualized in Cytoscape. A total of 270 proteins were detected, with no significant transpulmonary gradient alterations. However, patients with PAH-SSc showed distinct proteomic profiles compared to SSc. Multivariate analysis identified 48 differentially abundant proteins in pulmonary artery plasma, with 15 overrepresented and 33 downregulated in PAH-SSc. Among these, the downregulation of transforming growth factor-beta-induced protein ig-h3 (TGFβI/ig-h3) points to a potential involvement of the TGF-β-related extracellular matrix remodelling pathway in PAH-SSc. However, further validation in larger and independent cohorts is required before its relevance as a biomarker or therapeutic target can be established. In conclusion, while no transpulmonary proteomic gradient was observed, the proteomic profiles of PAH-SSc and SSc were different. The profile in PAH-SSc was characterized by differences in immune response, lipid metabolism, and hemostatic proteins. SIGNIFICANCE: This study offers the first proteomic characterization of the transpulmonary gradient in PAH-SSc and SSc. Although no differences in the gradient were found, the pulmonary artery plasma proteome of PAH-SSc patients showed a distinct pattern compared to SSc. Several proteins associated with immune function, haemostasis, and cellular processes were altered, which may indicate specific pathophysiological features of PAH-SSc or suggest how lung dysfunction develops in SSc. Targeting dysregulated proteins like TGFβI/ig-h3 or addressing immune-coagulation imbalances may support future research studies. Overall, these findings refine the molecular profile of PAH-SSc and provide a basis for future large-scale studies aimed at clarifying disease mechanisms and identifying clinically relevant molecular signatures.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
To identify potential biomarkers of atrial fibrillation (AF) using bioinformatics, machine learning (ML) and experimental methods.AF transcriptomic data were obtained from the GEO and MSigDB databases to screen for differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and inflammation-related gene sets (IRGs). The overlap between DEGs and IRGs was used to identify the DE-IRGs set. Two machine learning algorithms were used to filter AF-related DE-IRGs. Twelve male SD rats were randomly divided into a control group and an AF group. Rats received acetylcholine (66 μg/mL) and calcium chloride (10 mg/kg) via tail vein injection for five consecutive weeks to establish the AF model. Morphological characteristics of atrial myocytes were assessed with HE staining, while RT-qPCR and immunohistochemistry (IHC) were used to measure changes in mRNA and protein levels.In the training set, 119 DEGs were identified, with IRGs showing the highest correlation with two co-expression modules (r = 0.60 and 0.56, P < 0.0001). The intersection of DEGs and IRGs yielded nine DE-IRGs. The SVM-RFE and RF algorithms identified 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2B gene (HTR2B), latent-transforming growth factor beta-binding protein 2 gene (LTBP2), matrix remodeling associated protein 5 gene ( MXRA5), and transforming growth factor β-induced protein gene (TGFBI) as highly expressed in both the training and test sets in AF groups with high diagnostic efficacy (AUC > 0.77). The electrocardiogram limb leads of AF rats showed numerous f-waves. HE staining revealed disorganized atrial myocyte arrangement and inflammatory cell infiltration in the AF group. The TUNEL fluorescence assay showed an apoptosis rate of (55.34 ± 4.29)% in the AF group, compared to (8.69 ± 3.12)% in the control group (P = 0.0001). There were statistically significant differences in the relative expression levels of LTBP2 and TGFBI between the AF group (4.97 ± 4.20, 2.62 ± 1.85) and the control group (1.12 ± 0.21, 1.18 ± 0.77) (P = 0.0137, P = 0.0444). IHC revealed positive rates of LTBP2 and TGFBI proteins in the AF group of (36.50 ± 1.31)% and (27.39 ± 4.57)%, respectively, compared to (22.95 ± 2.62)% and (18.26 ± 3.70)% in the control group (P = 0.0008, P = 0.0485).The characteristic genes LTBP2 and TGFBI are highly expressed in AF and serve as valuable diagnostic biomarkers.© 2026《四川大学学报（医学版）》编辑部 Copyright © 2026 Editorial Office of Journal of Sichuan University (Medical Sciences).
Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP) is a rare cutaneous soft tissue sarcoma which is prone to high recurrence rate, and the fibrosarcomatous transformation of DFSP (FS-DFSP) is associated with a poorer prognosis and significant metastatic potential. Although the translocation of regions of chromosomes 17 and 22 that results in COL1A1-PDGFB fusion is generally acknowledged as a key genetic feature of DFSP, there is no established salvage treatment following resistance to imatinib, which targets the PDGFB pathway. In this study, we performed quantitative proteomics analyses of DFSP tumor tissues and paired adjacent normal skin, to uncover novel molecular mechanisms and potential therapeutic targets. Findings were validated using immunohistochemistry, Western Blot, Real-Time Quantitative PCR and cell viability assay.Pathway enrichment analysis including KEGG and GSEA revealed that spliceosome pathways and ECM-receptor interaction were associated with DFSP pathogenesis. The spliceosomal components SF3B, and SerpinB9, which is the endogenous inhibitor of granzyme B, were validated to be upregulated in tumor tissues. SerpinB9 was significantly overexpressed in the FS-DFSP subtype compared with the classic-type DFSP. Treatment with the SF3B1 inhibitor, Pladienolide-B, significantly reduced tumor cell viability. siRNA-mediated knockdown of SF3B1 and SF3B2, as well as Pladienolide-B treatment, inhibited SERPINB9 expression without affecting pre-SERPINB9 mRNA levels, suggesting splicing-dependent regulation. Additionally, quantitation of the tumor microenvironment cells using the MCP-counter algorithm indicated NK cells activation. The CD56 (NK cell surface marker), biomarkers of tumor-associated macrophage (TAM) such as CD14 and CD163, and transforming growth factor-β induced (TGFBI) which is associated with TAM infiltration stained positive in DFSP tumors. SERPINB9 mRNA expression showed a positive correlation with both NK cell abundance and FCGR3A (NK cell marker) mRNA level.SerpinB9 overexpression is associated with fibrosarcomatous features in DFSP and may represent a candidate prognosis biomarker. The SF3B/SERPINB9 axis is a potential therapeutic vulnerability, particularly in FS-DFSP. NK cell- and macrophage-related signatures were evident in DFSP tumor microenvironment, warranting further functional studies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Stem cells balance self-renewal with differentiation. Priming, i.e., low-level expression of differentiation-related genes, enables stem cells to remain undifferentiated and progeny to fast proceed in up-regulation of differentiation genes. Here, we investigated transcriptional priming during neurogenesis to search for key regulators. Assay for transposase-accessible chromatin using sequencing (ATAC-seq) and RNA sequencing of neural stem cells (NSCs) and neurons across forebrain regions identified hundreds of neuronal differentiation genes open while lowly expressed in NSCs. Pantelencephalic candidate transcription factors regulating neurogenic primed genes highlighted the transcriptional repressor transforming growth factor-β-induced homeobox factor 2 (TGIF2). We show that TGIF2 binds and represses neuronal differentiation genes in NSCs by interacting with SIN3 transcription regulator family member A/histone deacetylase corepressor complexes. Gain- and loss-of-function experiments in vitro and in vivo show that TGIF2 maintains NSC identity, slows neuronal differentiation, and regulates more than half of the primed neuronal differentiation genes in NSCs. Together, our database determines primed gene expression across regions and stages and identifies TGIF2 as a key regulator of neurogenic NSC fate.
Refractive surgery can unmask or accelerate transforming growth factor-β-induced (TGFBI)-related corneal dystrophies that are undetectable by routine slit-lamp examination, creating a clear need for a rapid, standardized, preoperative genetic screening. We developed a multiplex, allele-specific real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) panel targeting five high-frequency TGFBI hotspots (R124C/L/H, R555W/Q) and built a statistics-driven analytical framework to optimize assay decisions. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis defined locus-specific cycle threshold (CT) cut-offs that were harmonized to a single decision threshold (CT=36) to simplify deployment. Analytical sensitivity was established by Probit modeling of serial two-fold dilutions, and confirmed by ≥20 replicates per level. In a 158-sample validation set (38 mutation-positive; 120 negative), qPCR agreed perfectly with Sanger sequencing (Cohen's kappa coefficient (κ)=1.0). Probit analysis yielded locus-specific limit of detection (LoD) values ranging from 0.035 to 0.200 ng/µL; at 0.200 ng/µL, the detection rate was over 95%. Repeatability and intermediate precision were high (CT coefficient of variation (CV) 0.34%-1.21%). No cross-reactivity was observed against non-target TGFBI variants or other ophthalmic genes, and interference from blood, oral flora/rinse, or toothpaste produced small, bounded shifts (approximately -7.8% to +2.8%). Calibration with serial dilutions demonstrated linear CT-log(copy) relationships suitable for routine quality control. Prospective screening of 10 055 refractive surgery candidates identified six TGFBI carriers (0.06%) harboring R124H (including one homozygote), R124L, R124C, or R555W mutation, all confirmed by Sanger sequencing. This study established a clinically applicable, statistically optimized multiplex qPCR platform that integrated ROC-derived cut-offs and Probit-defined LoD with rigorous evaluations of precision, specificity, and robustness, enabling large-scale population implementation. Positive screening results guide clinical decision-making through a standardized post-screening workflow, and the targeted hotspot screening strategy serves as a cost-effective first-tier high-throughput approach for preoperative risk assessment. The framework provides a transparent, reproducible path to standardize preoperative TGFBI screening and reduce iatrogenic risk in refractive surgery candidates.
Granular corneal dystrophy type 1 (GCD1) is an autosomal dominant hereditary corneal disorder caused by pathogenic variants in the TGFBI gene. However, the population distribution of TGFBI (Transforming Growth Factor Beta Induced) variants in Taiwan remains incompletely characterized. This study aimed to investigate the spectrum and population frequency of coding variants in TGFBI within the Taiwanese population using genomic data from the Taiwan Biobank.Whole genome sequencing (WGS) data from Taiwan Biobank participants were analyzed to identify exonic single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) causing coding sequence alterations in the TGFBI gene. Allele frequencies were estimated and compared against probe-based SNP array data and East Asian population reference data from the 1000 Genomes Project. Phenotypic information was obtained from self-reported questionnaire data available within the Taiwan Biobank.A total of 22 exonic SNPs causing coding sequence alterations were identified in TGFBI. One variant, rs121909212 (p.P501T) was observed at a notably higher allele frequency (0.003) compared to other identified variants. The estimated allele frequency of rs121909212 in the Taiwanese population was approximately 0.003, which is comparable to the frequency reported in the Japanese population. Furthermore, WGS-based allele frequency estimates showed greater consistency with reference population data than SNP array-based genotyping.Our findings provide a population-level overview of TGFBI coding variation in the Taiwanese population and identify rs121909212 as a rare variant prevalent in East Asian populations. The study also highlights the utility of WGS for accurately characterizing rare pathogenic variants in population-scale genomic datasets.AJTR Copyright © 2026.
The consensus molecular subtype 4 (CMS4) of colorectal cancer (CRC) represents an aggressive, mesenchymal phenotype associated with the poorest clinical prognosis. Although angiogenesis is fundamental to CRC progression, current anti-VEGF therapies are frequently compromised by primary or acquired resistance, creating an urgent need to identify alternative vascular drivers. NOTCH3 is significantly enriched in CMS4 CRC, yet its direct role in modulating the tumor vasculature remains elusive. Here, integrating multi-center transcriptomic datasets with clinical validation, we identified NOTCH3 as a critical engine of CRC angiogenesis. In Stage IV clinical samples, NOTCH3 expression correlated significantly with microvessel density (MVD). Functionally, overexpression of the NOTCH3 intracellular domain (NICD3) dramatically enhanced endothelial tube formation and migration in vitro, while driving robust tumor vascularization in xenograft models. Through transcriptomic profiling, we identified the secreted factor transforming growth factor-beta-induced protein (TGFBI) as the essential downstream effector. Mechanistically, we demonstrate that NICD3 physically interacts with and upregulates SMAD3, thereby facilitating the direct transcriptional activation of TGFBI. Crucially, to translate these mechanistic insights, we utilized molecular docking and drug screening to identify the flavonoid Hesperidin (HES) as a potent binder of TGFBI. HES treatment effectively abolished NICD3-driven angiogenesis and suppressed tumor progression in vivo. Collectively, our findings characterize a novel NICD3/SMAD3/TGFBI signaling axis as a key vulnerability in CRC and propose HES as a promising precision therapeutic strategy for CRC patients with features of CMS4.© 2026. The Author(s).
Extracellular matrix (ECM) plays fundamental roles in animal development, regeneration and disease. The difficulty of tagging endogenous matrix proteins in vertebrates has limited the understanding of ECM composition and dynamics in complex tissues. To visualize vertebrate ECM components, we tagged zebrafish Laminin, gamma 1 (Lamc1), Collagen, type I, alpha 2 (Col1a2), and Transforming growth factor, β-induced (Tgfbi) using C-terminus in-fusion genome editing. Analysis of these knock-in lines revealed distinct expression of each protein in various tissues during development and regeneration. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching analysis further indicated that Lamc1 is stable in fin fold matrix but more dynamic in myoseptal matrix of developing zebrafish, while Col1a2 and Tgfbi are stable matrix components in myosepta. Strikingly, we found that Col1a2-mScarlet protein accumulates at the amputation plane during tailfin regeneration, where it remains concentrated for several days and distant from the regeneration blastema. This 'foundation' region also displays a distinct transcriptome, suggesting active and dedicated events at the base of the regenerating appendage. Our resource enables live capture of ECM dynamics that can identify new events in developing and regenerating zebrafish.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42300785
Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (iCCA), the second most common subtype of primary liver cancer around the world, is an aggressive neoplasm with high metastastic potential, which leads to a low rate of curative resections and dismal prognosis. In previous studies, Sulfatase 2 (SULF2) has been reported to regulate various important oncogenic signaling pathways and promote iCCA progression. Further research is needed to explore the role of SULF2 in iCCA metastasis. In this study, we verified the overexpression of SULF2 in iCCA tissues and its positive correlation with advanced stage and poor prognosis. Trans-well migration and invasion assay and mouse models explored the impact of SULF2 on iCCA metastasis in vitro and in vivo. We also demonstrated that SULF2 facilitated iCCA metastasis through upregulating CXCR4 transcription mediated by the transcription factor YBX1. Moreover, SULF2 could recruit USP7 to interact with YBX1 and inhibit Lys48-polyubiquitination of YBX1, stabilizing YBX1 and promoting a functional YBX1/CXCR4 axis. Combining SULF2 monoclonal antibody with SU056 had a synergistic effect in suppressing iCCA progression and metastasis of mouse models. In conclusion, SULF2 promotes iCCA progression and metastasis through an intracellular SULF2-YBX1-CXCR4 axis, and SULF2 monoclonal antibody combined with YBX1 inhibitor SU056 may be a potentially promising treatment strategy for iCCA.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
Wooden Breast (WB) and White Striping (WS) are prevalent myopathies affecting the Pectoralis major (PM) muscle of modern broiler chickens, with significant implications for animal welfare and meat quality. This pilot study aimed to characterize proteomic alterations associated with increasing severity of WB and WS in the PM of Hubbard × Ross 708 broilers. Muscle samples (n = 12) were previously categorized into four severity ranks based on established macroscopic criteria. Presently, proteins were extracted and analyzed using LC-MS/MS-based shotgun proteomics. Statistical comparisons between groups were performed using Generalized Linear Models. Fibronectin 1, fibrinogen alpha chain, musculoskeletal embryonic nuclear protein 1, glutathione S-transferase 2, calsequestrin-2, and endoplasmin emerged as potential biological markers and their prospective roles in the pathogenesis of these myopathies are discussed. Our findings suggest a progressive alteration of the muscle proteome with increasing disease severity, highlighting pathways related to muscle structure, metabolism, and stress response. These results aid in providing new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying WB and WS and may inform future research on genetic and management strategies. As a pilot study, these findings warrant further investigation in larger cohorts and different commercial lines.
Sulfatase 2 (SULF2) is an extracellular enzyme involved in the modulation of multiple oncogenic signaling pathways and has been implicated in tumor progression across several malignancies. However, its prognostic significance in surgically resected non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains incompletely defined.SULF2 expression was evaluated by immunohistochemistry in tumor specimens from patients with stage I-III NSCLC who underwent curative-intent surgical resection between 2009 and 2016. Expression levels were quantified using an H-score-based system and categorized as low or high. Associations between SULF2 expression, clinicopathological characteristics, and survival outcomes, including overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS), were analyzed using Kaplan-Meier estimates and Cox proportional hazards models. Eighty-three patients were included, of whom 65 (78.3%) were male; 42.2% had stage I disease, 32.5% stage II, and 25.3% stage III.SULF2 expression was detected in 94.0% of tumors, with 43 patients (51.8%) classified as high and 40 (48.2%) as low expression based on H-score. Overall survival and DFS did not differ significantly between SULF2-low and SULF2-high groups (log-rank p = 0.213 and p = 0.660, respectively). Median OS was 113.2 months (95% CI: 84.0-142.4) in the SULF2-low group and 54.9 months (95% CI: 39.4-186.9) in the SULF2-high group, while median DFS was 88.3 months (95% CI: 46.5-130.2) and 53.3 months, respectively, with numerically shorter survival in the SULF2-high group. Subgroup analyses stratified by pathological stage and histological subtype revealed no significant associations between SULF2 expression and survival outcomes. In multivariate analysis, SULF2 expression was not independently associated with either OS or DFS.SULF2 expression was highly prevalent in surgically resected NSCLC; although higher expression showed numerically poorer survival, this difference did not reach statistical significance.
Growth factor signaling governs essential cellular processes, and its precision relies on interactions with heparan sulfate on the cell surface. The sulfation pattern of heparan sulfate dictates its capacity to bind specific growth factors and their receptors, thereby controlling the signaling strength and specificity. Extracellular endosulfatases, including sulfatase 1 and sulfatase 2, further modulate these interactions by selectively removing sulfate groups from defined regions of heparan sulfate. Although these enzymes are known to influence developmental- and disease-related signaling, their direct effects on growth factor recognition have remained unclear. Using a panel of bioengineered heparan sulfate conjugates with defined sulfation compositions, this study examines how the structural features of heparan sulfate govern its regulation by the sulfatases. By tracking enzyme binding and catalytic remodeling, we found that both enzymes rely on two coordinated mechanisms: catalytic desulfation of heparan sulfate and competitive binding that transiently prevents growth factor association. The balance between catalytic remodeling and competitive binding depends on the sulfation characteristics of the heparan sulfate substrate and the identity of the growth factor and differs between the two enzyme isoforms. These findings provide a new framework for understanding how extracellular sulfatases shape growth factor signaling in both development and disease.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42127989 is a review article
Endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EndMT) has emerged as a pathophysiological process responsible for various chronic vascular diseases, particularly atherosclerosis. However, the molecular pathways that govern EndMT are poorly defined. This study aimed to investigate whether sulfatase-1 (SULF1) plays a role in oxidative stress-induced EndMT and atherosclerosis.The cellular composition of the carotid atherosclerotic core was analysed using a single-cell transcriptome, followed by in vivo and in vitro validation of the underlying molecular mechanism. Single-cell transcriptome analysis revealed that SULF1 plays important roles in both EndMT and atherosclerosis. Additionally, oxidative stress promoted the upregulation of SULF1 expression in endothelial cells and induced EndMT. Notably, SULF1 overexpression promoted EndMT and exacerbated plaque instability, whereas SULF1 silencing promoted endothelial protein expression and mitigated the increase in mesenchymal proteins, effectively blocking EndMT. Subsequent experiments revealed that SULF1 induced this transition through HMOX1-induced iron overload, which further activated the WNT/SLUG pathway and promoted EndMT. Aerobic glycolysis increased in endothelium exposed to oxidative stress, accompanied by elevated lactate levels, which increased histone H3 lysine 18 lactylation (H3K18la). Mechanistically, oxidative stress significantly decreased the expression of histone deacetylase (HDAC) 3, which precisely regulated H3K18la enrichment at the SULF1 promoter, thereby activating SULF1 transcription and promoting EndMT.This study highlights the critical role of SULF1 in EndMT and reveals precise crosstalk between metabolism and epigenetics via H3K18la by HDAC3 during EndMT-induced atherogenesis, offering novel therapeutic targets for atherosclerosis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Obesity is an established risk factor for invasive breast ductal carcinoma (IDC); however, the specific molecular heterogeneity distinguishing IDC from ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) within the obese tumor microenvironment is not well defined. In the current study, spatially resolved transcriptomics was used to profile the epithelial, stromal, and immune compartments of DCIS and IDC lesions stratified by host body mass index, categorized as non-obese (≤29.9 kg/m2) or obese (≥30 kg/m2). These analyses reveal that the transcriptional signatures defining the invasive state differ significantly across body mass index categories. In non-obese patients, IDC lesions exhibited canonical profiles driven by proliferation and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, compared with DCIS. Conversely, the obese setting was characterized by a distinct stress-adaptive phenotype, enriched for metabolic adjustment, oxidative stress response, and inflammatory signaling. The epithelial component was accompanied by a fibro-inflammatory stromal signature and an immunosuppressive niche characterized by B-cell depletion and M2 macrophage enrichment. Furthermore, sulfatase 2 (SULF2), an extracellular endosulfatase involved in extracellular matrix organization and signaling, was consistently up-regulated within the obese epithelium, providing a plausible link between metabolic stress and structural remodeling. Collectively, these data indicate obesity-associated differences consistent with an alternative invasive transcriptional program that is less dominated by classical proliferative drivers in this cohort. Consequently, standard prognostic markers may be context dependent, highlighting the need to integrate metabolic health into precision risk stratification.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The intestinal epithelium supports antimicrobial programs and epithelial barrier function; while epigenetic mechanisms are increasingly implicated in these processes, how the differentiation stage shapes epigenetic regulation of key innate immune genes under inflammatory stress remains unclear. We investigated differentiation-stage-dependent epigenetic modulation of intestinal innate immunity-associated genes, focusing on α-defensin 5 (DEFA5) and SRY-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9), in a controlled Caco-2 differentiation framework. Human colon-derived Caco-2 cells were cultured for 2-14 days and transiently exposed to dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) as an in vitro epithelial inflammatory stressor. Promoter DNA methylation and gene expression of DEFA5, SOX9, odd-skipped-related transcription factor 1 (OSR1), and receptor-interacting protein 140 (RIP140) were assessed. DSS exposure at the undifferentiated stage was associated with sustained suppression of DEFA5 and SOX9 accompanied by increased DNMT1/3B expression, together with altered expression of SOX9-associated transcription factors (OSR1 and RIP140). Transient DNMT1 inhibition with GSK-3484862 during early differentiation partially rescued DSS-imposed suppression of DEFA5 and SOX9 and shifted promoter methylation readouts toward the control direction. Overall, early-stage inflammatory exposure imposes a persistent epigenetic constraint on Paneth-associated innate immune gene programs in this in vitro model, providing insights into how epithelial differentiation stage may influence sustained innate immune dysregulation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Afatinib is an irreversible epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) used to treat EGFR-mutant non-small cell lung cancer. It frequently causes gastrointestinal toxicity that perturbs intestinal homeostasis, and its impact on Paneth-like lineage differentiation along the crypt-villus axis remains unclear. Using a controlled differentiation-stage framework in Caco-2 cells, we examined how afatinib affects Paneth-like differentiation markers. We incubated undifferentiated Caco-2 cells with afatinib (10-5000 nM) for 24 h during early culture and evaluated downstream DNA methylation and differentiation-associated readouts up to day 14. We quantified proteins (western blotting), mRNAs (RT-qPCR), and promoter methylation (methylation-sensitive restriction enzyme-qPCR). Afatinib increased DNA methylation at the SRY-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9) and defensin alpha 5 (DEFA5) promoters and reduced their protein expression. Immunostaining indicated reduced expression of Paneth-like differentiation markers in Caco-2 cells. In contrast, mRNA levels of the SOX9 regulators odd-skipped related transcription factor 1 (OSR1) and receptor-interacting protein 140 (RIP140) were upregulated without changes in promoter methylation at the analyzed sites, indicating DNA methylation-independent regulation at these promoters. These findings suggest that DNMT1/3B-skewed methylation at the SOX9/DEFA5 promoters may be counteracted by ten-eleven translocation-mediated counter-demethylation. Collectively, our data indicate that afatinib modulates Paneth-like differentiation markers via DNA methylation-dependent repression of SOX9/DEFA5 and DNA methylation-independent induction of OSR1/RIP140 in Caco-2 cells, which may be relevant to crypt-associated epithelial function and gastrointestinal safety.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
To observe the effect of electroacupuncture (EA) at "Zusanli" (ST36) on blood glucose in acute hyperglycemia (AH), low-risk prediabetes (LRP) and high-risk prediabetes (HRP) mice, and to explore its underlying mechanisms in regulating the function of pancreatic β - cells in LRP.This study included 3 (AH, LRP and HRP) experiments. In each part of the experiments, C57BL/6J mice were randomly divided into normal, model and EA groups, with 6 mice in each group in AH and HRP experiments, and 18 mice in LRP experiment. The AH model was established by intraperitoneal injection of 2 g/kg glucose solution. After injection, EA (1 mA, 10 Hz) was applied to bilateral "Zusanli" (ST36) for 20 min. The LRP model was established by feeding the mice with high-fat diet for 1 week. From the 4th day when the impaired glucose tolerance criteria of prediabetes were reached, EA was applied to bilateral ST36, with the parameters being the same as above, once a day for a total of 4 times. In the HRP experiment, the animal model was established by feeding the mice with a high-fat diet for 8 weeks. Four weeks after beginning of the modeling, EA intervention (1 mA, 10 Hz) was performed at ST36 for 20 min, 3 times a week for a total of 12 times. Blood glucose and glucose tolerance were measured using a glucose meter, and serum glycated hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), insulin, and glucagon levels were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Changes of the pancreatic morphology were examined by HE staining. The expression levels of activating transcription factor 6 (ATF6), endoplasmic reticulum to nucleus signaling 1 (ERN1), eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 alpha kinase 3 (EIF2AK3), p21 (a cell cycle factor in cellular senescence), muscarinic acetylcholine receptor M2 (M2-AchR) and M3-AchR in the pancreatic β-cells were detected using Western blot, and the expression levels of pancreatic and duodenal homeobox factor-1 (PDX-1), beta-cell-specific transcription factor (MAFA) and forkhead box O1 (FOXO1) mRNAs in the pancreatic β-cells detected using quantitative real-time PCR. The insulin+/P21+ co-positive cells, and the number of ChAT+/c-fos+ co-labeled neurons in the pancreatic ganglia and CTB647/ChAT+/c-fos+ co-labeled neurons in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV) innervating the pancreas were determined using fluorescent immunohistochemistry.1) In the AH experiment, compared to the normal group, the blood glucose level in the model group was significantly increased 15 min after modeling (P<0.001), without pathological damage in the pancreas, and the serum insulin level was significantly increased after modeling (P<0.05). In comparison with the model group, the blood glucose levels at 30 and 60 min were significantly reduced (all P<0.01), while the serum insulin content was considerably increased (P<0.05) in the EA group, suggesting that EA lowered blood glucose by increasing stress-induced insulin level. 2) In the LRP experiment, compared to the normal group, the blood glucose levels from the 3rd day to the 7th day, and the glucose tolerance from 15 to 120 min were significantly elevated in the model group (P<0.001, P<0.05, P<0.01). No significant changes were found in the serum HbA1c, serum insulin and glucagon levels and in the morphological result of the pancreas tissue in the model group. In comparison with the model group, the blood glucose levels on day 4, 6 and 7, the glucose tolerance at 15, 30, 60 and 120 min were strikingly decreased (P<0.001, P<0.01, P<0.05), while the serum insulin content was notably increased (P<0.05) in the EA group. No significant changes were found in the serum HbA1c and glucagon levels after EA intervention. 3) In the HRP experiment, compared to the normal group, the blood glucose levels from 1 to 8 weeks, the glucose tolerance levels at 15, 30, 60 and 120 min, HbA1c and insulin levels were significantly increased (P<0.001, P<0.05, P<0.01), whereas the serum glucagon level was notably decreased (P<0.05) in the model group, accompanied with an increase of the pancreatic islet volume. Following EA intervention, the blood glucose at the 5th and 6th week, insulin and glucagon levels were considerably down-regulated in the EA group (P<0.01, P<0.05), accompanied with a slight decrease of the pancreatic islet volume. 4) In LRP mice, in comparison with the normal group, the expression levels of M2-AchR and M3-AchR protein were significantly decreased (P<0.05), while the expression levels of ATF6, ERN1, EIF2AK3, P21 and the number of insulin+/P21+ positive cells in the pancreas tissue were significantly increased (P<0.01, P<0.05) in the model group. In contrast to the model group, the EA group had an obvious increase in the number of CTB647/ChAT+/c-fos+ co-labeled neurons in the DMV and ChAT+/c-fos+ co-labeled neurons in the pancreatic ganglia, and the expression of M2-AchR and M3-AchR protein (P<0.05, P<0.01), and a notable down-regulation in the expression levels of ATF6, ERN1, EIF2AK3 and P21 proteins and in the number of pancreatic insulin+/P21+ positive cells (P<0.01, P<0.05). No significant changes were found in the number of CTB647/ChAT+/c-fos+ co-labeled neurons in the DMV and ChAT+/c-fos+ co-labeled neurons in the pancreatic ganglia in the model group, and in the mRNA expression levels of pancreatic PDX1, MAFA and FOXO1 in both model and EA groups.EA at ST36 can promote the restoration of blood glucose balance in the AH, LRP and HRP stages in mice, with the most effective phase being the LRP. The underlying mechanism may be related to its functions in activating vagus nerve to inhibit the endoplasmic reticulum stress in pancreatic β-cells.
Previous studies demonstrate that individuals with elevated plasma trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) suffer worse myocardial injury following acute myocardial infarction. However, whether TMAO promotes myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury (MIRI) remained undefined. The purpose of this study was to determine if TMAO exacerbated MIRI. In this study, we found that TMAO exacerbated MIRI in both in vivo mouse models of ischemia-reperfusion and in vitro primary cardiomyocyte models of hypoxia/reoxygenation. Mechanistically, RNA sequencing and gene set enrichment analysis indicated that TMAO suppressed mitochondrial function-related pathways. Further, we confirmed that TMAO aggravated mitochondrial dysfunction during ischemia-reperfusion, manifested as ultrastructural damage, reduced mitochondrial membrane potential, elevated reactive oxygen species overproduction, impaired mitochondrial respiration and inhibited energy metabolism. TMAO-induced mitochondrial dysfunction was mediated through ferredoxin reductase suppression, as ferredoxin reductase overexpression reversed TMAO-exacerbated injury. TMAO bound to eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2-alpha kinase 3 (PERK) and sustained PERK/eukaryotic initiation factor-2α (eIF2α) pathway activation during IR. Pharmacological inhibition of PERK/eIF2α signaling (using GSK2606414 and ISRIB) reversed TMAO-induced ferredoxin reductase suppression, mitochondrial dysfunction, and MIRI exacerbation, indicating the key role of PERK/eIF2α signaling in this process. These findings provide novel insight that TMAO is a risk factor in MIRI. Through maintaining PERK/eIF2α activation, TMAO inhibits ferredoxin reductase expression thereby impairing ferredoxin reductase-dependent mitochondrial function. Pharmacological inhibition of the PERK/eIF2α pathway may represent a therapeutic strategy for alleviating MIRI with elevated TMAO.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Dendritic cells (DCs) are crucial antigen-presenting cells that mediate the interplay between innate and adaptive immunity during lethal infections. Here, we report the key role of reticulophagy regulator 1 (RETREG1), a selective autophagy receptor, in maintaining DC maturation and function in the early stage of sepsis. Mechanistically, activating transcription factor 6 (ATF6) acts as a direct transcription factor regulating RETREG1 expression in response to bacterial lipopolysaccharide-induced endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. RETREG1-mediated reticulophagy reduces excessive ER stress via the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 alpha kinase 3 (EIF2AK3) signaling pathway and inhibits membrane-associated RING-CH-type finger 8 (MARCH8)-dependent major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC-II) ubiquitination to maintain antigen presentation in DCs. Consequently, Cd11ccreRetreg1fl/fl, Retreg1-/-, and Atf6-/- mice exhibit impaired DC function, leading to immunosuppression and multiple organ failure in experimental sepsis. Exploration of samples from septic patients, combined with single-cell bioinformatics analysis, further suggests that a deficit in reticulophagy in DCs is associated with the development of human sepsis.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
The protein kinase RNA-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase (PERK) pathway plays a critical role in preventing the accumulation of misfolded or unfolded proteins within the endoplasmic reticulum. In this study, the role of the PERK signaling pathway was evaluated in newly diagnosed, treatment-naïve patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML).Plasma levels of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2-alpha kinase 3 (eIF2AK3), glucose-regulated protein 78 (GRP78), activating transcription factor 6 (ATF6), CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein homologous protein (CHOP), hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha (HIF-1α), and caspase 3 were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in peripheral blood samples obtained from AML patients and healthy controls.A total of 40 individuals were included, comprising 19 (47%) AML patients and 21 (53%) healthy controls. HIF-1α, eIF2AK3, GRP78, ATF6, CHOP, and caspase 3 levels were significantly higher in the AML group than in the control group (p = 0.019, 0.005, <0.001, 0.006, <0.001, and <0.001, respectively). No significant differences were observed in HIF-1α, GRP78, ATF6, CHOP, and caspase 3 levels between diagnosis and the 30th day of remission-induction therapy in the AML group, whereas a significant decrease was observed in eIF2AK3 levels (p = 0.049). At diagnosis, a strong positive correlation was found between GRP78 and CHOP levels (r = 0.740, p < 0.001), and a moderate positive correlation was detected between CHOP and caspase 3 levels (r = 0.514, p = 0.024) in the AML group. In the Cox regression analysis of the AML cohort, no statistically significant association was identified between overall survival and age, risk category, or biomarker levels (HIF-1α, eIF2AK3, GRP78, ATF6, CHOP, and caspase 3).PERK and ATF6 signaling pathways were activated in patients with AML. Targeting the unfolded protein response pathway may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for patients with AML.© TÜBİTAK.
To report an unusual case of Wolcott-Rallison syndrome (WRS) due to a novel homozygous missense mutation c.1805G>T (p.Gly602Val) in the Exon 11 of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 alpha kinase 3 (EIF2AK3) gene.A 2-month-old infant, born to a consanguineous marriage presented to PICU with the manifestation of severe diabetic ketoacidosis (severe hyperglycemia, pH 6.984 + ketones in urine). Genomic sequencing analyses detected a novel homozygous missense variation in the Exon 11 of the EIF2AK3 gene that resulted in the amino acid substitution of valine for glycine at codon 602 (p.Gly602Val). A diagnosis of Wolcott-Rallison syndrome was confirmed. He was treated with fluid therapy and regular insulin infusion. The purpose of this case report is to highlight the novel mutation in the Exon 11 of the EIF2AK3 gene and to raise awareness for screening of pathogenic genetic variants in the EIF2AK3 gene in all patients with neonatal diabetes mellitus.In the evaluation of infants with diabetic ketoacidosis, genomic DNA sequencing analyses should be performed in all cases of neonatal diabetes mellitus for early diagnosis of Wolcott-Rallison syndrome.© 2025 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.
To determine the mechanism of electro-acupuncture (EA) effect by the wingless-related integration site (Wnt)/β-catenin pathway in the guinea pig myopia model.Following myopia induction and EA, guinea pigs were treated with biometry to evaluate refraction and axial length. Hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining was used to observe that the retina, choroid, and sclera had abnormal morphology. At 4, 6, and 8 weeks, quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) was used to identify the expression of matrix metallopeptidase-2 (MMP-2)/MMP-3/tissue inhibitor of metalloprotease-2 (TIMP-2)/TIMP-3/Wnt family member 2B (WNT2B)/WNT3A/ WNT7B/beta-catenin 1 (CTNNB1), and dickkopf wnt signaling pathway inhibitor 1 (DKK-1) mRNAs in the retina, choroid, and sclera. Western blot was used to detect the protein expression of WNT7B/2B/3A, CTNNB1 and DKK-1 in retina, choroid and sclera at 4 weeks. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to detect the protein expression of MMP-2/TIMP-2 and MMP-3/TIMP-3 in serum at 4 weeks. Moreover, a DKK-1 inhibitor was injected into the vitreous cavity, and the expression of the above molecules was detected.EA could reduce the optic axial length and diopter and ameliorate ocular pathology, inhibited the expression of MMP-2/MMP-3 and WNT2B/WNT3A/ WNT7B/CTNNB1, while increased the expression levels of TIMP-2/TIMP-3 and DKK-1. However, the expression levels of WNT2B/WNT3A/WNT7B/CTNNB1 and MMP-2/MMP-3 were significantly increased, and the TIMP-2/TIMP-3 and DKK-1 expression levels were decreased after injected DKK-1 inhibitor.The mechanism of EA's effects on myopia may involve the downregulation of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway and correct MMP-2/MMP-3/TIMP-2/TIMP-3 balance.
High-fat diet (HFD) and Streptococcus agalactiae are common pathogenic factors affecting tilapia health, yet their combined effects and underlying mechanisms are not well understood. To address this, we conducted a comprehensive evaluation of the potential response mechanisms in tilapia subjected to both factors. Tilapia were fed normal (NC) or high-fat diet (HFD) for 90 days, then challenged with S. agalactiae. At 48 h post-infection, blood, liver, and spleen samples were collected for biochemical parameter analysis and gene expression profiling. The results indicated that the combined treatment upregulated the expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α (pparα) and fatty acid transport protein 1 (fatp1). Concurrently, it increased 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (hmgcr) expression, while decreasing cholesterol 7α-hydroxylase (cyp7a1) expression compared to HFD alone. Antioxidant status analysis revealed that the combined treatment decreased glutathione (GSH) content, total antioxidant capacity (T-AOC), and mRNA levels of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (nrf2), NAD(P)H quinone dehydrogenase 1 (nqo1), and glutathione peroxidase 3 (gpx3). Intriguingly, while both individual stressors upregulated inflammatory and immune-related genes, their combination suppressed interleukin-1β (il-1β), il-8, and immunoglobulin M (igm) expression compared to infection alone. The apoptotic response triggered by S. agalactiae infection, characterized by elevated caspase-3 (cas3), cas9, and cytochrome c (cytc), was inhibited in the liver of combined treatment group. Moreover, all experimental groups showed elevated expression of endoplasmic reticulum stress-related genes: inositol-requiring enzyme 1 (ire1), eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 alpha kinase 3 (eif2ak3), activating transcription factor 6 (atf6), and binding immunoglobulin protein (bip). These findings collectively demonstrated that HFD exacerbated the pathogenic effects of S. agalactiae through multiple mechanisms, including metabolic dysregulation, oxidative stress potentiation, and complex immunomodulation. Furthermore, the Nrf2 and NF-kB signaling pathways may be implicated in mediating these adverse effects.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Excessive fatty acid triggers endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, leading to lipotoxicity, which plays a vital role in the pathogenesis of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD). Reticulophagy is recently identified as an integral process in maintaining ER homeostasis during ER stress. However, our knowledge of reticulophagy in lipotoxicity remains limited, and the underlying molecular mechanisms are unclear. Here we showed that mild, short-term lipotoxicity induced by palmitic acid stimulated reticulophagy in vitro, mediated primarily by the selective receptor RETREG1. Knockdown of RETREG1 in HepG2 cells and primary hepatocytes exacerbated palmitic acid-induced cell damage and death. Having demonstrated the indispensability of ATF4 and CEBPG/C/EBPγ in transcriptional upregulation of RETREG1, we found that ATF4 forms a heterodimer with CEBPG and identified their binding sites in the promoter and enhancer regions of RETREG1 gene. In mice with acute hepatic lipotoxicity, RETREG1-mediated reticulophagy was activated, conferring protection against liver injury, as retreg1 knockout mice exhibited more severe liver injury than wild-type mice. In contrast, reticulophagy initiation was defective in a high fat diet-induced mouse model of MASLD, possibly due to decreased gene expression of Retreg1 driven by the suppression in ATF4 and CEBPG. Our study underscores the crucial role of RETREG1-mediated reticulophagy, which is co-regulated by ATF4 and CEBPG, in response to lipotoxicity, suggesting that activation of reticulophagy may represent a strategy against MASLD.Abbreviations: ATF4/Atf4:activating transcription factor 4;ATL3: atlastin GTPase 3; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1;CAREs:CEBP-ATF response elements; CASP9:caspase9;CCPG1/Ccpg1:cell cycle progression 1; CEBPB/C/EBPβ: CCAAT enhancer bindingprotein beta; CEBPG/C/EBPγ:CCAAT/enhancerbinding protein gamma; ChIP: chromatin immunoprecipitation; Co-IP:co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; DDIT3: DNA damage inducibletranscript 3; EIF2A: eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2A;EIF2AK3: eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 alpha kinase 3;ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ERN1: endoplasmic reticulum to nucleussignaling 1; Fa/R: fasted overnight followed by refeeding with ahigh-carbohydrate, fat-free diet; FBS: fetal bovine serum; GOT1/AST:glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1, soluble;GPT/ALT:glutamic pyruvic transaminase, soluble; HCD:high-carbohydrate diet; H&E: hematoxylin and eosin; HFD: high-fatdiet; Hmox1:heme oxygenase 1; IHC: immunohistochemistry;KRT18/CK18: keratin 18; LDH: lactatedehydrogenase; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule-associated protein 1 lightchain 3; MASLD: metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liverdisease; MDA: malondialdehyde; ND: normalchow diet; Nfe2l2:nuclear factor, erythroid derived 2, like 2; Nqo1:NAD(P)H dehydrogenase, quinone 1; PA: palmitic acid; PCR: polymerasechain reaction; RT-qPCR: quantitativereal-time PCR; RETREG1/FAM134B:reticulophagy regulator 1; RTN3/Rtn3:reticulon 3; SEC62/Sec62:SEC62 homolog, preprotein translocation; Sod2:superoxide dismutase 2, mitochondrial;SQSTM1/Sqstm1:sequestosome 1; TEX264/Tex264:testis expressed 264; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TG:triglyceride; UPR: unfolded protein response; WT: wild-type; XBP1:X-box binding protein 1.
This study investigates the potential mechanisms through which the Rhubarb-Peach Kernel herb pair may exert effects in gastric cancer (GC) using network pharmacology and molecular docking approaches. Active compounds and their corresponding targets were retrieved from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology Database and Analysis Platform (TCMSP), with additional compound-target information obtained from DrugBank. Gastric cancer-related targets were collected from GeneCards, Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM), the Therapeutic Target Database, and DrugBank. The overlapping targets were used to construct a compound-target-disease network and a protein-protein interaction network. Gene ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analyses were subsequently performed. Nine candidate compounds were docked against 8 core targets to assess their predicted structural interactions. A total of 27 active compounds were identified, among which β-sitosterol, aloe-emodin, and hederagenin were identified as major candidate compounds. Tumor protein p53, caspase 3, and JUN were among the principal network targets. Enrichment analysis indicated that the overlapping targets were mainly associated with the p53 signaling pathway and other pathways involved in cancer-related processes, including apoptosis, cell survival, and inflammatory regulation. Molecular docking revealed differences in predicted binding scores among the 9 candidate compounds and 8 core targets, with several compound-target pairs showing comparatively lower docking energies. This in silico study suggests that the Rhubarb-Peach Kernel herb pair may act through multiple compounds, targets, and biological pathways relevant to GC. However, the identified targets are not necessarily specific to GC, and the molecular docking findings represent computational predictions rather than evidence of actual biological binding. These results should therefore be considered preliminary and hypothesis-generating, and further in vitro and in vivo studies are required to evaluate their biological and therapeutic relevance.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565580 is a review article
Tumor protein p53 (TP53) alterations are frequently reported in canine cancers but remain incompletely characterized due to differences in reference genomes and sequencing cost.To evaluate a cost-efficient primer-walking approach for TP53 variant screening in dogs with spontaneous tumors.Tumor tissue (n = 10) or blood (n = 16) was collected from 26 dogs with suspected neoplasia. Interpretable TP53 sequences spanning introns and exons 2-11, excluding long intron 1 and non-protein-coding exon 1, were obtained by primer-walking polymerase chain reaction and Sanger sequencing. Bidirectional reads were compared with the Ensembl ROS_Cfam_1.0 v114 reference sequence.TP53 gene sequence variations were observed in 18/26 sequenced tumor cases, including one exonic frameshift insertion and 17 noncoding variants: 13 intronic variants and 4 variants in the 5' untranslated region. Recurrent substitutions and deletions occurred in the intron 8-10 region. Variants were detected in lymphomas and carcinomas, including cases from several small breeds, but no significant association with tumor type or breed was demonstrated.Primer-walking Sanger sequencing can screen TP53 regions beyond coding exons in canine tumor samples. Matched tumor-normal sequencing is needed to determine somatic versus germline origin and to evaluate noncoding TP53 variants as potential biomarkers or drivers.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by The Korean Society of Veterinary Science.
We report a case of pulmonary artery intimal sarcoma successfully treated with surgical resection followed by weekly paclitaxel. The tumor harbored a tumor protein p53 mutation, amplifications of epidermal growth factor receptor, platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha, and KIT, and focal positivity for mouse double minute 2.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Case Reports published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
G protein-coupled receptor 19 (GPR19) is an orphan G protein-coupled receptor with emerging relevance in cancer; however, its role in breast cancer remains poorly understood. Given the high frequency of tumor protein p53 (TP53) alterations in aggressive breast cancer, particularly triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), we investigated the clinical significance, biological function, and molecular mechanism of GPR19 in TP53-mutant breast cancer.Public datasets (Gene Expression Omnibus and The Cancer Genome Atlas) were analyzed to assess GPR19 expression in relation to TP53 status, molecular subtype, and prognosis. Expression was validated in breast cancer cell lines, paired clinical tissues, and tissue microarrays by quantitative PCR, Western blotting, immunofluorescence, and immunohistochemistry. Stable GPR19 knockdown models in MDA-MB-231 and BT-549 cells were used to evaluate proliferation, cell cycle distribution, and apoptosis. RNA sequencing, rescue experiments with the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activator Ro 67-7476, and a nude mouse xenograft model were employed to investigate the underlying mechanism.GPR19 was significantly upregulated in TP53-mutant breast cancer, primary tumors, and especially TNBC, and its high expression was associated with poor survival. Functionally, GPR19 depletion markedly suppressed cell proliferation, colony formation, and DNA synthesis, while inducing G2/M arrest and apoptosis in TP53-mutant breast cancer cells. Mechanistically, GPR19 knockdown reduced ERK phosphorylation and downregulated forkhead box protein M1 (FOXM1) and its downstream G2/M regulators cyclin B1 (CCNB1) and polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1), whereas total ERK levels remained largely unchanged. Pharmacological activation of ERK partially restored FOXM1 expression, alleviated cell cycle disturbance and apoptosis, and reversed the growth-inhibitory effects of GPR19 depletion. In vivo, GPR19 knockdown suppressed xenograft growth, reduced Ki-67 staining, increased terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) positivity, and inhibited the ERK-FOXM1-CCNB1/PLK1 signaling cascade, all of which were partially rescued by ERK activation.GPR19 functions as a novel oncogenic driver and clinically relevant biomarker in breast cancer, particularly in TP53-mutant and TNBC subsets. By activating the ERK-FOXM1 axis, GPR19 sustains cell cycle progression and suppresses apoptosis, highlighting this pathway as a potential therapeutic vulnerability in aggressive breast cancer.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Cluster of differrentiation 19 (CD19)-directed therapies have significantly improved outcomes in B-cell malignancies; however, relapse driven by antigen escape remains a major clinical challenge, underscoring the need for alternative therapeutic targets. The B-cell activating factor receptor (BAFF-R), a key regulator of B-cell survival, is highly expressed in mature B-cell neoplasms, but its relevance in B-lymphoblastic leukaemia (B-ALL) remains unclear. We assessed BAFF-R expression in diagnostic and relapsed fresh B-ALL samples using multi-parameter flow cytometry. BAFF-R was consistently expressed in most cases, albeit at lower levels than in mature B cells, and expression was retained in the majority of CD19-negative relapses following CD19-directed therapy. Notably, tumor protein p53 (TP53) alterations were significantly enriched in CD19-negative immune escape disease (68.8% vs. 21.7%; p = 0.0006; OR = 7.9), yet BAFF-R expression remained preserved in this high-risk group. These findings establish BAFF-R as a stable immunotherapeutic target in B-ALL, including in CD19-negative and TP53-altered relapsed disease, and underscore its relevance amid ongoing early-phase clinical trials of BAFF-R-directed chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy.© 2026 British Society for Haematology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42492394 is a review article
To systematically investigate the shared and disease-specific mechanisms by which gut microbial metabolites may regulate age-related macular degeneration (AMD), diabetic retinopathy (DR), and retinal vein occlusion (RVO) through a network pharmacology framework.Bioinformatics-based network pharmacology study.Publicly available gut microbial metabolite, metabolite-target, and disease-associated gene data sets related to AMD, DR, and RVO were analyzed.Gut microbial metabolites were retrieved from gutMGene, and potential human targets were predicted using the Similarity Ensemble Approach and SwissTargetPrediction. Disease-associated genes were collected from GeneCards, Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man, and the Comparative Toxicogenomics Database. Intersection genes were analyzed using Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analyses. Protein-protein interaction networks were constructed using the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins database, and candidate hub targets were prioritized in Cytoscape. Drug-likeness and toxicity profiles of key metabolites were evaluated using SwissADME and ADMETlab 3.0. An integrated microbiota-substrate-metabolite-target (M-S-M-T) network was constructed to characterize gut-eye axis regulation.Intersection genes, enriched biological functions and pathways, high-centrality candidate hub targets, predicted drug-likeness and toxicity profiles of metabolites, and M-S-M-T regulatory relationships.A total of 226 gut microbial metabolites and 1518 predicted host targets were identified. Intersection analysis revealed 47, 44, and 40 metabolite-related genes associated with AMD, DR, and RVO, respectively, including 38 genes shared across all 3 diseases. Enrichment analyses showed convergent involvement of microbial signal sensing, inflammatory regulation, oxidative stress, apoptosis, and vascular homeostasis. Nuclear factor kappa B, mitogen-activated protein kinase, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-protein kinase B, tumor necrosis factor, VEGF, Toll-like receptor, and nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-like receptor pathways formed a shared inflammatory-oxidative-vascular signaling module. Protein-protein interaction analysis identified interleukin 6, tumor necrosis factor, protein kinase B alpha, and tumor protein p53 as recurrent high-centrality candidate hub targets. Key metabolites, including indole-3-propionic acid, tryptamine, phenylalanine, and indole-3-lactic acid, showed favorable predicted drug-likeness and safety profiles.Gut microbial metabolites may contribute to AMD, DR, and RVO through shared inflammatory, oxidative stress, and vascular signaling networks. These findings provide a systems-level framework for gut-eye axis regulation and support further experimental validation of microbiota-based systemic intervention strategies.The author has no/the authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.© 2026 American Academy of Ophthalmology, Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The gut mycobiome plays an essential role in human health, yet its influence on the progression of arterial stiffness, a key feature of vascular aging, remains obscure. In this study, we aimed to investigate the involvement of intestinal fungi in the exacerbation of arterial stiffness. In total, 763 participants were invited for the brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity test to determine their status of arterial stiffness. The gut mycobiome was identified through internal transcribed spacer sequencing, host genetics were determined by genotyping arrays, and plasma metabolites were quantified using untargeted liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. A less clustered but more communicative fungal community was found in individuals with elevated stiffness. Five driving fungal genera contributing to the shift of fungal interaction networks from normal to elevated stiffness, including Apiotrichum, Mycothermus, Flavocillium, Hyaloscypha, and Microscypha, were associated with arterial stiffness. Integrative analysis with metabolomics further demonstrated that organic acids, fatty acyls, and alkaloids mediated the effect of Apiotrichum, Mycothermus, and Microscypha on arterial stiffness. Moreover, alpha-1A adrenergic receptor, alpha-2B adrenergic receptor, cytochrome P450 Family 11 subfamily B member 2, angiotensin I converting enzyme, angiotensin II receptor type 1, matrix metallopeptidase 2, tumor necrosis factor, and rho-associated coiled-coil containing protein kinase 2 were identified as the key molecular transducers associated with increased Apiotrichum in arterial stiffness. Our study uncovers a strong association between disruption in gut fungi and the progression of elevated arterial stiffness, and highlights the potential of targeting the gut mycobiome for improving vascular health.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Emerging evidence highlights the oncogenic role of the Dishevelled, Egl-10, and Pleckstrin domains containing 1 (DEPDC1) gene in lung cancer progression, making it an attractive therapeutic target. In this study, we investigated the anti-cancer potential of Delafloxacin, a fluoroquinolone antibiotic, in DEPDC1-overexpressing non-small cell lung cancer, NCI-H1299 cells. In silico docking of 1399 FDA-approved compounds using AutoDock Vina confirmed the strong binding affinity of Delafloxacin to the DEPDC1 active site (binding energy -7.1 kcal/mol). Delafloxacin treatment resulted in dose-dependent suppression of cell proliferation, with an IC50 of approximately 30 μg/mL. RT-qPCR revealed significant downregulation of DEPDC1 and several key regulators of proliferation (RAS, EGFR), mitotic progression (Cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1), CCNB2, KIF2C), and survival (BIRC5). Cell cycle analysis demonstrated G2/M phase accumulation upon Delafloxacin treatment, consistent with transcriptional repression of CDK1 and CCNB2. In vivo, Delafloxacin administration (15 mg/kg) significantly reduced tumor growth in a xenograft mouse model without overt toxicity. While these findings identify Delafloxacin as a candidate for repurposing in lung cancer, the observed downregulation of DEPDC1 represents a correlative finding rather than validated direct targeting. This study provides a rationale for further investigation of Delafloxacin in DEPDC1-associated malignancies.© 2026 The Author(s). Smart Molecules published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Dalian University of Technology.
Myocardial ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury is a complex condition characterized by oxidative stress, inflammation, and mitochondrial dysfunction. Ferroptosis, an iron-dependent form of regulated cell death, plays a critical role in cardiomyocyte damage during I/R. Inhibiting ferroptosis has been shown to reduce myocardial injury and improve cardiac function, making it a promising therapeutic target for enhancing clinical outcomes. An in vivo I/R model was established, and infarct size was assessed using triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC) staining. Histological changes were analyzed using hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining, Masson, immunohistochemistry (IHC), and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) assays. Cellular experiments included analyses of reactive oxygen species (ROS), lipid peroxidation, and iron content using specific fluorescent probes, as well as enzymatic markers measured with commercial assay kits. Cell viability and senescence were evaluated using the Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay and senescence-associated β-galactosidase (SA-β-gal) staining, respectively. Mitochondrial ultrastructure was examined using transmission electron microscopy (TEM), while molecular mechanisms, including DNA methylation, were investigated using methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (MSP). Interactions among pleckstrin homology-like domain family A member 3 (PHLDA3), DNA (cytosine-5)-methyltransferase 3 A (DNMT3a), and polypyrimidine tract binding protein 1 (PTBP1) were evaluated using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and RNA pull-down assays. Silencing of PHLDA3 demonstrated protective effects against I/R injury by attenuating cardiomyocyte ferroptosis and cardiac microvascular endothelial cells (CMECs) senescence under hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) conditions in vitro and I/R injury in vivo. Mechanistically, downregulated DNMT3a was responsible for PHLDA3 hypomethylation. Furthermore, PTBP1 was identified as an upstream RNA-binding protein that destabilized DNMT3a mRNA during H/R injury, indirectly enhancing PHLDA3 expression. Our findings suggest that PTBP1-mediated DNMT3a downregulation contributes to PHLDA3 hypomethylation, which may promote cardiomyocyte ferroptosis and subsequent microvascular endothelial cell senescence during I/R injury.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
The inhibition of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) to lower angiotensin is important in the treatment of hypertension (HT). ACE inhibitory activity is rarely documented in Thai traditional and indigenous medicine. Here, we evaluated the angiotensin I-converting enzyme inhibitory (ACEi) activity through bio-screening of selected medicinal plant species traditionally used for HT treatment by ethnic communities in northern Thailand, including Blumea balsamifera (L.) DC., Clerodendrum chinense (Osbeck) Mabb., Rotheca serrata (L.) Steane & Mabb., and Zingiber purpureum Roscoe. Using an in vitro assay, ethanolic extracts were evaluated for ACE inhibitory activity. Among the four extracts tested, the ethanolic leaf extract of Blumea balsamifera was the most effective by reducing ACE activity by 29, 36, and 64% at concentrations of 0.4, 2.0, and 10.0 mg/mL, respectively. The rhizome extract of Zingiber purpureum showed the second highest activity, with inhibition rates of 34%, 39%, and 40% at the corresponding concentrations. Cytotoxicity testing in HEK293T kidney cells was conducted to underscore the detectable toxicity under the tested conditions. Interestingly, intercultural and cross-cultural comparisons revealed a degree of agreement in the use of medicinal plants for hypertension treatment. Plant species traditionally used across multiple cultures tended to show higher levels of ACE inhibitory activity, suggesting their potential as candidates for the development of novel anti-hypertensive agents. To our knowledge, this is the first report describing the ACE inhibitory activity of medicinal plant species used for hypertension treatment by ethnic communities in northern Thailand.
NLRP3 inflammasome plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of intervertebral disc (IVD) degeneration (IDD). This study aimed to identify NLRP3 inflammasome-related biomarkers in IDD and analyze their functions.First, the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) (IDD vs. control) in GSE124272 were detected. The NLRP3 inflammasome-related genes (NIRGs) scores for all samples were calculated using single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA). Subsequently, the key module with the strongest correlation with NIRGs scores was selected using weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA). Biomarkers were defined as the DEGs and genes showing consistent expression trends across both the GSE124272 and GSE150408 datasets. Function enrichment and immune infiltration were analyzed. The abundance of the key biomarkers was validated by real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR). To explore the effect of core targets on IDD by constructing IDD in vitro model.About 1608 intersection genes were derived from overlapping the above 2123 DEGs and 10695 key module genes. Subsequently, the top 10 genes were identified. Based on gene expression analysis, disheveled, EGL-10, and pleckstrin domain-containing 1 (DEPDC1), and Opa interacting protein 5 (OIP5) were selected as biomarkers. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that these biomarkers were primarily enriched in cytosolic ribosomes and DNA replication. Immune infiltration analysis identified 13 differential immune cells. Endothelial cells were inversely correlated with DEPDC1, whereas conventional dendritic cells (CDC) demonstrated a pronounced positive relationship with OIP5. RT-qPCR results confirmed that the expression of OIP5 and DEPDC1 in IDD patients was downregulated by more than 50% (p < 0.05). Cell experiments showed that up-regulation of OIP5 led to a 2-fold reduction in cell proliferation (p < 0.001) and a three-fold increase in apoptosis in nucleus pulposus (NP) cells derived from IDD patients (p < 0.001).Taken together, OIP5 has been identified as a peripheral blood biomarker linked to the NLRP3 inflammasome and may be involved in the pathogenesis of IDD.Copyright © 2026 Yongliang Fu et al. Mediators of Inflammation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Platinum resistance remains a major cause of treatment failure in ovarian cancer (OC). Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), key components of the tumor microenvironment, play critical roles in OC progression. Inhibin subunit beta A (INHBA) and its putative receptor endoglin (ENG) have been linked to OC chemoresistance, but their functional interaction in mediating cisplatin resistance remains unclear.Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was performed to characterize CAF subsets and assess INHBA and ENG expression in OC tissues. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) and immunofluorescence (IF) staining was conducted on tissue microarrays to evaluate protein expression and co-localization. Primary CAFs and normal fibroblasts (NFs) were isolated. INHBA was knocked out in CAFs via CRISPR/Cas9, and ENG was stably knocked down in cisplatin-resistant OC cells by lentiviral shRNA. The INHBA-ENG axis was investigated through in vitro assays, co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), molecular docking, and in vivo xenograft models.scRNA-seq resolved four CAF subsets, with myoCAF1 being dominant in platinum-resistant tumors. INHBA was specifically restricted to myoCAF1, while ENG was enriched in epithelial cells, and their mRNA levels showed a strong positive correlation. Consistently, IHC confirmed significant upregulation of INHBA/ENG in OC, especially in platinum-resistant cases. CAF-derived INHBA promoted OC cell proliferation, invasion, EMT, and cisplatin resistance. Molecular docking suggested a high-affinity INHBA-ENG interaction, which was confirmed by Co-IP in OC-CAF co-cultures. ENG knockdown reversed cisplatin resistance, an effect abrogated by recombinant INHBA. In vivo, CAF-derived INHBA promoted tumor growth and cisplatin resistance in an ENG-dependent manner.MyoCAFs-derived INHBA binds to ENG on OC cells, inhibits apoptosis, induces EMT, and promotes cisplatin resistance. The INHBA-ENG axis represents a promising therapeutic target for overcoming platinum resistance in OC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42410249 is a review article
The emphysematous phenotype is an important phenotype in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), with substantial morbidity and mortality. The mechanisms underpinning the role of alveolar type II (AT2) cells in alveolar repair within this phenotype remain poorly understood. This study aimed to elucidate the role of PHLDA1, a potential stemness regulator in AT2 cells, on emphysema development. Utilizing mice model, we performed a targeted knockdown of PHLDA1 in AT2 cells and subsequently exposed these mice to tobacco smoke to assess the resultant severity of emphysema and related alveolar damage. We manipulated PHLDA1 expression in AT2 cells line or primary mouse AT2 cells to examine its influence on AT2 stemness-related processes- differentiation, proliferation, and wound closure ability. The specific pathway of PHLDA1 mediated in AT2 cells, as well as its interaction with the GLI1 protein, was further investigated. Mice with reduced PHLDA1 expression developed the emphysema independent of smoking exposure. PHLDA1 knockdown in AT2 cells attenuated their proliferation via the Hedgehog pathway, impairing wound closure ability in the emphysematous phenotype. We also discovered a binding relationship between PHLDA1 and GLI1, where PHLDA1 modulates the nuclear translocation of GLI1, thus regulating the Hedgehog pathway and influencing the stemness and proliferation of AT2 cells. Our study suggests that PHLDA1 is a critical factor in the proliferation process of AT2 cells via modulation of GLI1 nuclear translocation. This regulation is essential to the pathogenesis of the emphysematous phenotype in COPD, signifying potential therapeutic targets for intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559626 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42555759
Benzene exposure is a major risk factor for hematologic malignancies, including acute myeloid leukemia (AML), through mechanisms involving genotoxicity, oxidative stress, and dysregulation of hematopoietic signaling pathways. This study investigated the protective effects of melatonin, vitamin C, and their combination against benzene-induced pre-leukemic alterations in rats, with emphasis on bone marrow genotoxicity, oxidative stress, and activin A/follistatin expression. Forty male Wistar rats were allocated into five groups (n=8): control, benzene, benzene + melatonin, benzene + vitamin C, and benzene + combined treatment. Genotoxicity was assessed using bone marrow micronucleus assays, while oxidative stress biomarkers, serum activin A/follistatin levels, and bone marrow gene expression were evaluated using biochemical assays, ELISA, and qPCR, respectively. Benzene exposure significantly increased micronucleus frequency, reduced %PCE and PCE/NCE ratio, elevated %NCE, and suppressed activin A and follistatin expression. Melatonin or vitamin C alone partially attenuated these abnormalities, whereas combined treatment demonstrated the strongest protective effects, including marked improvement of genotoxicity indices, restoration of catalase activity, and significant upregulation of activin A and follistatin gene expression. Combined melatonin and vitamin C supplementation attenuated benzene-associated pre-leukemic alterations, particularly genotoxic and oxidative stress-related abnormalities. Combined melatonin and vitamin C supplementation attenuated benzene-associated pre-leukemic alterations in rats, particularly genotoxic and oxidative stress-related abnormalities. These protective effects were accompanied by modulation of activin A/follistatin expression patterns, suggesting a potential association between restoration of this signaling axis and improved bone marrow homeostasis. However, further mechanistic studies are required to determine whether activin A/follistatin signaling directly contributes to the observed protective effects.
The follicular microenvironment strongly influences oocyte and embryo quality and therefore plays a critical role in assisted reproduction therapy outcomes. This study prospectively evaluated the association between follicular fluid (FF) concentrations of activin-A, follistatin, and inhibin-B and in vitro fertilization (IVF) outcome parameters.Couples with primary infertility attending an Assisted Conception Unit in Athens, Greece, were recruited as part of an ongoing prospective cohort study evaluating the impact of dietary and lifestyle patterns on fertility. FF levels of activin-A, follistatin, and inhibin-B were measured in 86 women undergoing IVF/ICSI cycles, along with assessments of oocyte yield and quality, embryo number and quality, implantation success, clinical pregnancy, and live birth rates. FF samples were collected at oocyte retrieval from follicles ≥ 18 mm in diameter and analyzed using the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Associations between FF biomarkers and IVF outcomes were assessed using correlation analyses and multivariable-adjusted regression models.FF activin-A concentrations were positively correlated with both follistatin and inhibin-B levels (p < 0.001), while FF follistatin and inhibin-B levels were significantly associated with oocyte and embryo number and quality (p < 0.05). Multivariable-adjusted relative risk analyses demonstrated that FF activin-A levels were independently and inversely associated with primary clinical endpoints. Specifically, each 10 pg/mg increase in protein-normalized FF activin-A was independently and inversely associated with successful implantation [RR (95% CI) = 0.82 (0.69-0.96), p = 0.016], clinical pregnancy [RR (95% CI) = 0.76 (0.66-0.86), p < 0.001], and live birth [RR (95% CI) = 0.79 (0.64-0.97), p = 0.023]; however, none of these associations met the Benjamini-Hochberg adjusted significance threshold and all attenuated to marginal non-significance upon adjustment for family subfertility history.Follicular fluid follistatin and inhibin-B were associated with favorable intermediate IVF outcomes, whereas activin-A showed an exploratory inverse association with implantation, clinical pregnancy, and live birth. These findings warrant prospective validation in larger, independent cohorts before any clinical translation can be considered.© 2026. The Author(s).
Extensive experiments document that SPARCL1, a secreted protein that is produced primarily by astrocytes in brain and endothelia throughout the body and that is also known as Hevin, enhances synapse formation. However, the mode of action of SPARCL1 at synapses remains unclear owing to divergent results in the literature. Here, we use cultured neurons from newborn male and female mouse embryos to show that the C-terminal follistatin-like and Ca2+-binding domains of SPARCL1, which account for only 35% of the total SPARCL1 sequence, are sufficient to potently enhance synapse numbers. SPARCL1 acts at nanomolar concentrations at which SPARCL1 does not robustly bind to neurexins, neuroligins or neurexin/neuroligin complexes but avidly interacts with all teneurins. Strikingly, the follistatin-like domain of SPARCL1 on its own strongly binds to teneurins but is unable to stimulate synapse formation. Only when combined with the SPARCL1 Ca2+-binding domain does the follistatin-like domain induce synapses, suggesting that SPARCL1 enhances synapse numbers by binding to teneurins via its C-terminal follistatin-like domain and by activating synapse formation via its Ca2+-binding domain.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42505346 is a review article
Trigeminal neuropathic pain (TNP) is a severe facial pain disorder whose pathogenesis is incompletely understood. We previously identified follistatin (FST) as a contributor to peripheral nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain through direct binding to the insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor (IGF1R) in the dorsal root ganglia. However, the regulatory mechanisms governing FST expression and its specific role in TNP remain unclear. Here, we report that FST is upregulated in trigeminal ganglion (TG) neurons following partial infraorbital nerve transection (pIONT), and that this process is regulated by the transcription factors ATF3 and SOX11. Genetic deletion or knockdown of Fst attenuated pIONT-induced TNP and reduced TG neuronal hyperexcitability. Intra-TG injection of FST promoted pain-like behaviors and activated ERK and AKT signaling in an IGF1R-dependent manner. In addition, FST decreased voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channel currents and enhanced neuronal excitability via IGF1R-ERK/AKT signaling. Notably, FST upregulated a cohort of genes, including Fst itself, Cyp26a1, and Ccl2, through the transcription factor Specificity Protein 1 (Sp1). Consistently, pIONT increased Sp1 phosphorylation, and pharmacological inhibition or knockdown of Sp1 alleviated mechanical allodynia, reduced the expression of Fst, Cyp26a1, and Ccl2, and decreased the excitability of TG neurons. Collectively, these results reveal a previously unknown mechanism by which FST activates IGF1R-ERK/AKT signaling to decrease Kv channel currents and promote Sp1-regulated gene expression, contributing to peripheral sensitization and TNP pathogenesis. Our data indicate that targeting the FST-IGF1R-ERK/AKT-Sp1 axis may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for TNP.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42469358
Follistatin (FST) binds to and neutralizes members of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) superfamily, thereby regulating diverse physiological processes, including regulation of skeletal muscle, adipose, and bone homeostasis. FST also promotes adipose browning and enhances energy metabolism, leading to improved plasma lipid profiles and metabolic health in mice. Given the emerging association between brown adipose tissue (BAT) activation and reduced atherosclerosis, we investigated the anti-atherogenic potential of FST. Transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses of the Hybrid Mouse Diversity Panel (HMDP) revealed that Fst expression was negatively correlated with aortic lesion area and positively correlated with the expression of multiple adipose browning-associated genes. Adeno-associated viral delivery of Fst (AAV1-FST344) in Ldlr-/- mice significantly reduced aortic lesion area, improved plasma lipid profiles, and decreased expression of adhesion (VCAM1) and inflammatory (iNOS, TNF-α) markers in white adipose tissue (WAT), liver, and heart. Fst gene delivery also markedly increased uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1) expression in WAT, consistent with WAT browning. Integrated correlation analyses of Fst expression with tissue metabolites, together with plasma metabolite-lesion associations identified in the HMDP, implicated the arginase 1 (Arg1)-mediated metabolic pathway as a key regulator of atherogenesis. Consistent with these findings, Arg1 expression was significantly elevated in WAT, liver, and heart of AAV1-FST344-treated mice and in wild-type versus Fst-knockout mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs). Immunostaining localized Arg1 predominantly to CD68+ macrophages in heart and liver. Given recent evidence identifying Arg1 as a novel mediator of efferocytosis, these findings suggest that Arg1 may promote macrophage metabolic reprogramming and resolution of inflammation by enhancing the clearance of apoptotic cells. Furthermore, Fst gene delivery increased the expression of fibroblast growth factor 21 (Fgf21) and adiponectin (AdipoQ) in WAT. Collectively, these findings identify Fst as a novel anti-atherogenic regulator that protects against vascular disease by promoting adipose browning, improving lipid metabolism, and activating Arg1-mediated metabolic pathways.
Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is frequently complicated by hypertension, with approximately 60% of patients exhibiting both conditions. However, the epigenetic mechanisms underlying this comorbidity remain largely unexplored. N6-methyladenosine (m6A), the most abundant internal RNA modification, has emerged as a critical regulator of cardiovascular pathology, yet its role in OSA-associated hypertension (OSA-HTN) is unknown. Here, we investigated the contribution of m6A RNA methylation to OSA-HTN pathogenesis. In a chronic intermittent hypoxia (CIH) mouse model and hypoxia-stimulated aortic vascular smooth muscle cells (AVSMCs), we observed marked inflammatory injury, pyroptosis, and decreased expression of methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3) along with global m6A levels. Overexpression of METTL3 significantly attenuated hypoxia-induced pyroptosis and inflammation by downregulating SRY-box transcription factor 4 (SOX4), a pro-inflammatory transcription factor. Mechanistically, CIH suppressed YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA-binding protein 2 (YTHDF2), an m6A reader that directly binds SOX4 mRNA, while METTL3-mediated m6A modification enhanced YTHDF2-dependent SOX4 mRNA degradation. Knockdown of YTHDF2 abolished the suppressive effect of METTL3 on SOX4 stability, confirming a METTL3-m6A-YTHDF2 regulatory axis. This METTL3-dependent regulation of YTHDF2-SOX4 interaction and SOX4 mRNA decay was also validated in mouse aortic endothelial cells. Furthermore, in vivo silencing of SOX4 alleviated CIH-induced pyroptosis and inflammation in cardiac and aortic tissues. Notably, pharmacological activation of METTL3 or METTL3 overexpression similarly attenuated CIH-induced cardiac and aortic tissue injury in OSA-HTN mice. In conclusion, our findings identify a novel METTL3-YTHDF2-SOX4 axis that governs hypoxia-induced pyroptosis and inflammation, providing new mechanistic insights into the epigenetic regulation of OSA-HTN and highlighting potential therapeutic targets.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to University of Navarra.
Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy is highly effective in hematologic malignancies, yet its durability is limited by insufficient expansion, persistence, and T-cell exhaustion. Basic leucine zipper ATF-like transcription factor (BATF) promotes CD8+ T-cell effector differentiation but can drive exhaustion under chronic stimulation. Here, we developed a transient, non-viral strategy to modulate BATF expression in therapeutic T cells using clinically approved lipid nanoparticles (LNPs). Among 3 Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved ionizable lipids, SM-102-based LNPs achieved the highest mRNA delivery efficiency in primary T cells. Transient BATF overexpression enhanced T-cell cytotoxicity in vitro without inducing exhaustion. In vivo, BATF mRNA transfection enhanced T-cell expansion, reduced exhaustion, and improved anti-tumor activity for both OT-1 TCR-T cells in melanoma and CD19 CAR-T cells in acute lymphoblastic leukemia. These findings establish a safe and reversible platform for transient transcription factor modulation to optimize T-cell differentiation and function, thereby enhancing the efficacy of adoptive T-cell therapies and supporting clinical translation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health Inc., on behalf of the Chinese Medical Association (CMA) and Institute of Hematology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College (IHCAMS).
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are a group of hematopoietic disorders characterized by bone marrow failure and immune dysregulation. Dysregulated CD8 + T-cell function contributes to the pathogenesis of MDS. Basic Leucine Zipper ATF-Like Transcription Factor ( BATF ) is a key regulator of T-cell differentiation and exhaustion. This study investigated the role of BATF in CD8 + T cells from MDS patients and its correlation with clinical parameters.Twenty-one newly diagnosed MDS patients and healthy controls were enrolled in this study. The expression of BATF , perforin, granzyme B, and TIM-3 in peripheral blood CD8 + T cells was analyzed by flow cytometry. BATF mRNA levels were quantified by real-time PCR. Correlations between BATF expression and clinical data were evaluated statistically.Flow cytometry analysis revealed that BATF protein expression was significantly elevated in CD8 + T cells from higher-risk MDS patients compared with that in lower-risk patients and healthy controls, although BATF mRNA levels showed no significant difference. Functionally, BATF expression was inversely correlated with perforin expression and positively correlated with the exhaustion marker TIM-3. Clinically, BATF expression in CD8 + T cells was negatively correlated with hemoglobin concentration in MDS patients.Our findings suggest that BATF may promote CD8 + T-cell exhaustion and dysfunction in MDS, potentially contributing to anemia and disease progression. Targeting BATF could represent a novel therapeutic strategy for restoring immune function in MDS.Copyright © 2026 Journal of Cancer Research and Therapeutics.
The development of engineered Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cell lines capable of long-term, stable, and efficient recombinant protein expression is essential for industrial biologics manufacturing. Traditional random integration is hindered by epigenetic silencing and position effects, while current site-specific strategies are restricted by a limited stable library. To address this, we established a screening strategy based on two core criteria for ideal loci: 1) the capacity for sustained exogenous protein expression and 2) minimal impact on host cell physiology. By analyzing chromosomal location and expression data from 52 known stable loci, we identified 3,152 highly expressed genes. Subsequent Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses excluded genes essential for core growth and metabolism, yielding 252 candidate sites. These were further refined to 25 ideal candidate loci by evaluating their betweenness centrality in a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network, prioritizing hubs with potential genomic stability. After 40 generations of continuous culture, the Enhanced Green Fluorescent Protein (EGFP)-positive rates of DNA ligase 4-like protein (LIG4), L-threonine 3-dehydrogenase, mitochondrial (LOC100759874), and alpha-aminoadipic semialdehyde synthase, mitochondrial (AASS), remained above 95%. This study established an orthogonal functional enrichment screening strategy, which significantly improved the discovery efficiency of stable expression sites in CHO cells and laid a foundation for constructing highly stable recombinant cell lines suitable for industrial production.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Mesenchyme homeobox 1 (MEOX1) has been characterised as a central transcriptional regulator of fibroblast activation. Ligustilide (LIG) has significant antifibrotic, anti-inflammatory and antioxidative activities. We investigated if LIG can ameliorate hepatic fibrosis by targeting MEOX1 and exploring the underlying mechanism.In vivo, carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced mice were used to assess the antifibrotic effects of AAV9-pGFAP-sh-MEOX1 and LIG. In vitro, LX-2 cells, following transfection with siRNA or pcDNA or pretreatment with LIG, were incubated with TGF-β1 for the assessment.Knockdown of MEOX1 mitigated fibrosis, both in vivo and in vitro. Furthermore, through a strategy involving Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) prescription screening, molecular docking, cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA), site-specific mutation and surface plasmon resonance (SPR), we identified LIG as a potential inhibitor of MEOX1. Subsequent validation confirmed that LIG exerted significant antifibrotic effects through MEOX1. Mechanistic studies revealed that MEOX1 promoted transcriptional enhanced associate domain factor 2 (TEAD2) transcription, by binding to the -988 to -982 nt region of the TEAD2 promoter, which increased the transcription of Hippo signalling targets and stimulated hepatic stellate cell (HSC) activation and proliferation. LIG can also bind to the HOX domain of MEOX1, thereby inhibiting its function and alleviating hepatic fibrosis.The MEOX1-TEAD2 signalling axis is crucial for hepatic fibrosis. LIG attenuates hepatic fibrosis by targeting MEOX1 and inhibiting the downstream of the Hippo signalling pathway. Our results elucidated the mechanistic basis for developing LIG as a clinical antifibrotic agent.© 2026 British Pharmacological Society.
Retroperitoneal sarcoma (RPS) is a type of malignant tumour arising from mesenchymal tissues within the retroperitoneal space. RPSs tend to develop covertly and are often undiscovered when they have already grown significantly and invaded surrounding tissues and organs. These malignancies demonstrate high recurrence rates, present surgical challenges and exhibit limited responsiveness to radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Serum-derived molecules are known to play critical roles in tumourigenesis and tumour progression. However, the serum molecular profile of RPS patients remains unclear.We performed multi-omics analysis of serum samples from patients with retroperitoneal dedifferentiated liposarcoma. Prolactin concentrations were quantified using Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA). RNA-seq facilitated the identification of candidate signalling pathways, while gene expression was validated through quantitative polymerase chain reaction, immunohistochemistry and western blot analyses. Molecular mechanisms underlying transcriptional regulation were investigated through Chromatin Immunoprecipitation-qPCR (ChIP-qPCR) and dual-luciferase reporter gene assays.Integrative multi-omics profiling identified significant perturbations in galactose metabolism coupled with marked elevation of prolactin (PRL) levels in Retroperitoneal Liposarcoma (RLPS) patients. Further screening of serum prolactin levels in 100 patients with retroperitoneal tumours revealed that 90% of the cases exhibited hyperprolactinaemia in our research cohort, encompassing both malignant sarcomas and benign tumours. Studies at the clinical sample, cellular and animal levels have found that abnormally elevated prolactin in the serum can originate from sarcoma tissues. Mechanistic investigations identified SRY-box transcription factor 4 (SOX4) as a previously unrecognised transcriptional regulator of PRL. Functionally, PRL not only enhanced liposarcoma cell and fibrosarcoma cell proliferation but also conferred resistance to MDM2 inhibitors. Signalling pathway analysis revealed that PRL activates the Janus Kinase-Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription Pathway (JAK-STAT) signalling pathway and up-regulates c-MYC expression.This study indicates that PRL can serve as an oncogenic driver and therapeutic target. The identification of SOX4-PRL-c-MYC signalling axis provides actionable insights for developing novel therapeutic strategies against this malignancy.Retroperitoneal sarcoma cells can secrete prolactin into the bloodstream, inducing hyperprolactinaemia, which subsequently triggers metabolic reprogramming, such as glucose metabolism. SOX4 can function as a transcription factor that facilitates PRL transcription. PRL can activate the JAK-STAT signalling pathway by binding to PRLR on sarcoma cells, leading to the up-regulation of c-MYC.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical and Translational Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Shanghai Institute of Clinical Bioinformatics.
CD8+ T lymphocytes differentiate from effector to memory cells after antigen clearance, with prolonged IL-2 production characterizing functional cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs). To identify transcription factors associated with sustained IL-2 production, we compared influenza virus-specific and cytomegalovirus-specific CTLs, identifying Basic Leucine Zipper ATF-Like Transcription Factor 3 (BATF3) as a key candidate. BATF3 overexpression significantly enhanced cell proliferation in both virus-specific CTLs and CD19 chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cells while reducing cytokine production. Among AP-1 transcription factor family members, BATF and BATF3 demonstrated similar functions during effector phase expansion, but BATF3 exhibited distinct roles in promoting memory cell formation. ATAC-seq analysis revealed that BATF3 overexpression dynamically regulates chromatin accessibility, affecting diverse cellular processes including cytoskeletal organization, metabolic pathways, and survival signaling. BATF and BATF3 showed comparable kinetics until peak expansion, but BATF3 specifically facilitated the transition from effector to memory phase, up-regulating memory-associated genes while down-regulating exhaustion markers. These findings establish BATF3 as a master regulator of CD8+ T-cell fate determination through chromatin remodeling, offering therapeutic targets for enhancing CAR-T cell persistence in immunotherapy.© 2026 Umemura et al.
The dysregulation of growth factors is associated with defective trophoblast invasion, which leads to uteroplacental malperfusion due to the inadequate remodeling of spiral arteries. Pregnancy disorders, including preeclampsia, particularly early-onset preeclampsia, are closely related to compromised placental function caused by aberrant trophoblast invasion. Activin A, a growth factor detectable in serum that belongs to the transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) superfamily, has been implicated in the development of preeclampsia, as evidenced by its elevated serum levels and its role in regulating trophoblast invasion. However, the existing research on its regulatory mechanisms in trophoblast invasion has focused mainly on intracellular, nonsecretory epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) markers in conventional trophoblast cell lines, which limits its translational relevance to clinical applications. In this study, we performed small RNA sequencing combined with cell biology studies in primary human trophoblast and 2D human trophoblast stem cell models and revealed that the upregulation of the SOX4 (SRY-box transcription factor 4) and miR-103a-3p induced by activin A contributes to trophoblast invasion and potential extravillous differentiation. The bioinformatic analysis of proteomic and microRNA profiles from public databases revealed increased expression of the activin A protein and exosomal miR-103a-3p in maternal blood during the second trimester of pregnancy complicated by preeclampsia. Overall, our integrated approach reveals the regulatory mechanism by which activin A, SOX4, and miR-103a-3p regulate human trophoblast invasion and EVT differentiation, highlighting their potential as early diagnostic biomarkers for preeclampsia.© 2026. The Author(s).
Mislocalization and aggregation of the DNA/RNA binding protein, TDP-43, is seen in most cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-frontotemporal dementia (ALS-FTD). Accumulating DNA damage in neurons is also a common feature of ALS-FTD. TDP-43 has several characterized roles in the regulation of the DNA damage response (DDR). This review systematically explored the relationship between TDP-43, DNA damage and the DNA damage response in various models of ALS-FTD, facilitating comparison of findings between studies using similar models. Twelve peer-reviewed papers, covering eight TDP-43 mutations out of nearly 40, were reviewed and five experimental models included: cell lines, patient-derived iPS cells, organoids, and rodent models, plus post-mortem cortex and spinal cord tissue from ALS-FTD patients. Across the studies and models, depletion of TDP-43 or ALS-linked mutations consistently increased genomic instability. Q331K-expressing cells showed a 2-3-fold reduction in DNA repair activity and a 4-6-fold increase in DDR activation, while TDP-43-depleted cells showed a 20-fold rise in double strand breaks. TDP-43 normally binds to damaged chromatin, participates in early DDR signaling and scaffolds core DNA damage repair factors, including Ku70, XRCC4 and DNA ligase 4. This systematic review and narrative synthesis sheds light on mechanisms that explain how TDP-43 dysfunction impairs genome maintenance. When TDP-43 is mislocalized, mutated or aggregated, these interactions are disrupted, resulting in impaired DNA repair. DNA damage is also caused by increasing R-loops, dysregulation of mismatch repair gene transcription, and sequestering of repair proteins into cytoplasmic inclusions. Upstream DNA damage can further drive TDP-43 mislocalisation, creating a feed-forward loop. Given the ubiquity of TDP-43 pathology across neurodegenerative diseases, targeting the DDR mechanisms affected by TDP-43 may offer new therapeutic opportunities.Copyright © 2026 Almalki, Salama, Taylor, Ahmed and Tuxworth.
The basic leucine zipper ATF-like transcription factor 3 (BATF3) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM), where it may influence immune regulation and pancreatic β-cell homeostasis. Nevertheless, the upstream molecular mechanisms governing BATF3 expression remain largely undefined. Bioinformatic analyses of GEO and UCSC databases were conducted to identify transcription factors potentially regulating BATF3 (GEO: GSE9006 PBMC microarray; newly diagnosed T1D, n = 43; healthy controls, n = 24). Clinical samples (PBMC, n = 30) from T1DM patients and healthy controls were analyzed by qPCR to assess BATF3 and candidate transcription factor expression. Lentiviral transduction and siRNA-mediated knockdown were applied to examine BATF3 regulation and its impact on CD8⁺ T-cell function. Transcription factor-promoter interactions were validated using dual-luciferase reporter assays and ChIP-qPCR. EGR1, EGR2, EGR3, and c-MYC were identified as differentially expressed transcription factors in GSE9006, with c-MYC emerging as the central regulator. Clinical analysis demonstrated significantly elevated expression of c-MYC and BATF3 in T1DM patients compared with healthy controls (n = 30, p < 0.05). In vitro assays confirmed that c-MYC binds to the BATF3 promoter region approximately 1-2 kb upstream of the transcription start site, thereby promoting BATF3 transcription, enhancing CD8⁺ T-cell proliferation, and inhibiting apoptosis (CD8⁺ T cells isolated from PBMCs of healthy children). ChIP-qPCR further localized the primary c-MYC binding site to the - 1,214 to - 1,203 bp region relative to the BATF3 transcription start site. c-MYC, a critical regulator of BATF3, is markedly elevated in T1DM patients. By driving BATF3 transcription, it promotes CD8⁺ T-cell expansion and limits apoptosis, jointly contributing to pediatric T1DM pathogenesis. These observations highlight the c-MYC-BATF3 axis as a mechanistic pathway relevant to pediatric T1DM and a potential biomarker framework.© 2026. The Author(s).
Human induced pluripotent stem (hiPS) cells are feasible materials for studying the biological mechanisms underlying human embryogenesis. In early embryogenesis, definitive endoderm and mesoderm are differentiated from their common precursor, mesendoderm. Bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling is responsible for regulating mesendoderm and mesoderm formation. Micro RNAs (miRNAs), short non-coding RNAs, broadly regulate biological processes via post-transcriptional repression. The expression of miR-27b, which is enriched in somatic cells, has been reported to increase through definitive endoderm and hepatic differentiation, but little is known about how miR-27b acts during early differentiation. Here, we used miR-27b-inducible hiPS cells to investigate the roles of miR-27b in the undifferentiated and early-differentiated stages. In undifferentiated hiPS cells, miR-27b suppressed the expression of pluripotency markers [alkaline phosphatase (AP) and nanog homeobox (NANOG)] and cell proliferation. Once differentiation began, miR-27b expression repressed phosphorylated SMAD1/5, the mediators of the BMP signaling, throughout definitive endoderm differentiation. Consistent with the above findings, miR-27b overexpression downregulated BMP-induced mesendodermal marker genes [Brachyury, mix paired-like homeobox 1 (MIXL1) and eomesodermin (EOMES)], suggesting that miR-27b had an inhibitory effect on early differentiation. Collectively, our findings revealed a novel antagonistic role of miR-27b in the BMP signaling pathway in the early differentiation of hiPS cells.© 2021. The Author(s).
Plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1) is a member of the serine protease inhibitor family critical in regulating fibrinolysis and is associated with diverse pathologies including cardiovascular disease, metabolic disorders, cancer, aging, and many others. Despite its clinical significance and extensive research, there are as of yet still no FDA or EMA-approved therapeutics that specifically target PAI-1. This review examines therapeutic strategies including small molecules, RNA aptamers, monoclonal antibodies, and repurposed pharmaceuticals. Notable challenges in the development of these therapies include the interplay of PAI-1 with tissue specific mediators such as vitronectin and the multi-dimensional, tissue-specific effects of PAI-1 modulation. Promising approaches will require tissue- and temporal expression-based interventions. Further characterization of PAI-1's structural dynamics and its role in various disease processes will shape its potential as a therapeutic target across broad fields in medicine.Thieme. All rights reserved.
Mechanical chest compressions during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) can produce pulmonary edema, described as cardiopulmonary resuscitation-associated lung edema (CRALE), which has been largely interpreted as a hydrostatic phenomenon. However, whether early molecular changes associated with epithelial injury, coagulation, and inflammation are also present during resuscitation remains uncertain. We hypothesized that bronchoalveolar lavage fluid proteomics would identify early protein signatures of lung injury after CPR.Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) was collected separately from the right and left caudal lung lobes of nine pigs before cardiac arrest and again after ventricular fibrillation, 8 min of untreated arrest, and up to 45 min of CPR. In animals achieving return of spontaneous circulation, post-CPR BALF was obtained immediately after resuscitation; in the remaining animals, sampling was performed at the end of CPR. Proteins were digested, tandem mass tag 18-plex labeled, and analyzed by high-resolution liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Differentially abundant proteins were defined by fold change >1.5 or <0.67 with P < 0.05. Functional enrichment, histologic assessment, and western blot validation were performed.A total of 1088 proteins were identified in left lung BALF and 1200 in right lung BALF. Comparison of pre- and post-CPR samples identified 74 and 78 differentially abundant proteins in the left and right lungs, respectively, with 28 shared proteins across both lungs. Among the most increased proteins were plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (SERPINE1/PAI-1), apolipoprotein A1, inter-alpha inhibitor family proteins, vitronectin, histones, and advanced glycation end-product receptor (AGER). Functional enrichment showed over-representation of proteins related to complement and coagulation, platelet degranulation, lipid metabolism, and extracellular matrix signaling. Histology showed mild septal thickening, vascular neutrophilic infiltration, interstitial edema, and patchy fibrin deposition, consistent with early pneumocyte injury and mild inflammation. Western blot confirmed increased post-CPR abundance of PAI-1 and apolipoprotein A1.Early after resuscitation, BALF proteomics identified molecular changes characterized by increased antifibrinolytic and complement-related proteins, together with proteins associated with epithelial and endothelial stress. These findings suggest that pulmonary abnormalities after CPR may involve not only hydrostatic edema but also an early biologic response consistent with lung injury, which may contribute to post-cardiac arrest respiratory dysfunction and progression to acute respiratory distress syndrome.© 2026 The Authors.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42530277 is a review article
The outer membranes (OMs) of bacterial pathogens are potent virulence factors and serve as the first line of defense against host immunity. Their striking bilayer asymmetry is essential for function but poses an exceptional challenge for reconstitution in vitro, limiting structure-activity analysis to artificial non-native platforms that can interfere with structure and function. Here, we describe bacterial OM vesicles (OMVs), natively secreted from the cellular OM during bacterial cell growth and development, as an effective vehicle for structure-activity analysis in situ based on solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). We show that E. coli OMVs may be engineered to express a range of isotopically labeled target OM proteins, and isolated for solid-state NMR magic angle spinning (MAS) experiments. High resolution NMR spectra are obtained for three bacterial virulence factors: the adhesion invasion locus (Ail) and plasminogen activator protease (Pla) from Yersinia pestis, and the major porin (OmpF) from E. coli. The spectra reflect the native protein structures, report on the specific OMV membrane environment, and may be used to map protein interactions with their human host ligands, specifically the multifunctional glycoprotein Vitronectin (Vn) which binds Ail as part of its serum protection activity. Notably, OMVs support protein functionality, enabling structure and activity to be correlated in situ. OMVs expressing plasmid-encoded Ail recruit human Vn and confer serum protection to wild-type E. coli cells, while OMVs expressing plasmid-encoded Pla support the proteolytic activity of Pla. Taken together, the data establish OMVs as a robust new platform for structure-activity analysis of OM proteins in situ, offer new insights about the complexity of the bacterial OM, and reveal additional functional aspects of OMVs as key ancillary units of bacterial infection.
As a transcription factor, nuclear receptor subfamily 4 group A member 2 (NR4A2) regulates target gene transcription by directly binding to response elements within gene promoters. However, the exact role and molecular mechanism of NR4A2 in fracture healing have not been fully elucidated. Here, we identified NR4A2 as a key functional molecular cargo enriched in exosomes secreted by aged bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs). Upon uptake by recipient cells, exosomal NR4A2 functioned as a transcriptional repressor that specifically bound to the promoter region of the Neural EGFL-like 2 (NELL2) gene, thereby suppressing its transcription. We further demonstrated that NELL2 acted as a critical adaptor protein that enhanced the binding affinity between fibronectin 1 (Fn1) and integrin β1, thereby licensing FAK/AKT cascade activation essential for osteogenic differentiation. Mechanistically, NR4A2-mediated suppression of NELL2 impaired the assembly of the NELL2/Fn1/integrin β1 complex and attenuated FAK/AKT phosphorylation, thereby inhibiting osteogenesis and culminating in delayed fracture healing. Collectively, our findings delineate a novel exosome-dependent regulatory axis, through which aged BMSCs deteriorated the bone repair microenvironment via the NR4A2/NELL2/FAK-AKT signaling cascade. This study reveals a previously unrecognized molecular mechanism underlying age-associated fracture healing impairment.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Leptomeningeal Metastasis (LM) is a catastrophic complication of systemic malignancies with poor prognosis and significant diagnostic challenges. Extracellular vesicle (EV)-based liquid biopsy is an emerging technology that may improve the detection, prognosis, and therapeutic monitoring for LM. This systematic review aims to critically appraise and synthesize existing evidence on the use of EV-derived biomarkers from cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) or serum for the diagnosis, prognosis, and therapeutic monitoring of LM. A systematic search of PubMed, ScienceDirect, Semantic Scholar, and Google Scholar was conducted up to January 2025. Eligible studies evaluated EV-associated molecular biomarkers (microRNAs or proteins) in LM patients using CSF or serum samples. Data extraction included study design, sample source, EV isolation method, biomarker type, validation method, and diagnostic/prognostic relevance. Risk of bias was assessed using QUADAS-2. Ten studies met inclusion criteria, encompassing EV miRNA and proteomic profiling in LM, primarily from non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and medulloblastoma. miR-21 consistently correlated with poor prognosis and therapy resistance. Novel candidates such as miR-183-5p demonstrated high diagnostic accuracy (AUC 1.0 in a discovery cohort), targeting PTEN pathways. EV-derived proteins including fibronectin-1 (FN1), transketolase (TKT), and complement C2 also showed strong discriminative potential. Heterogeneity in EV isolation techniques and small sample sizes limited meta-analysis feasibility. EV-based liquid biopsy holds cautious promise as a minimally invasive tool for LM diagnosis, prognosis, and therapeutic monitoring. Larger, multicenter studies with standardized protocols are required to validate these findings and facilitate clinical translation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Intervertebral disc degeneration (IDD) is a major contributor to low back pain, yet its cellular heterogeneity and the relevance of circulating extracellular-matrix proteins to disease susceptibility remain incompletely understood. We integrated public single-cell RNA sequencing datasets from healthy and degenerative human intervertebral discs with protein quantitative trait locus-based Mendelian randomization (MR) and exploratory functional assays in primary human nucleus pulposus cells. After quality control, normalization, Harmony integration, clustering, and reference-guided annotation, single-cell analysis revealed disease-associated shifts in cell-state composition and transcriptional programs related to extracellular-matrix organization, focal adhesion, inflammatory signaling, IL-6-JAK-STAT3 signaling, transforming growth factor-beta signaling, and oxidative phosphorylation. Network analyses repeatedly prioritized fibronectin 1 (FN1), decorin (DCN), CCN2, EGFR, and COL1A1 as extracellular-matrix-associated candidates. A numerical consistency audit indicated that the reported FN1 MR estimate was not statistically significant after recalculation from beta and standard error, whereas DCN showed a nominally positive inverse-variance-weighted association, with less consistent support from alternative estimators. In primary nucleus pulposus cells, siRNA-mediated reduction of FN1 or DCN was accompanied by lower expression of selected matrix and inflammatory markers in a TNF-alpha model. Overall, this study prioritizes extracellular-matrix candidates and disease-associated cell states for further mechanistic validation rather than establishing definitive causal drivers.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) exhibits marked biological heterogeneity, ranging from indolent tumors to more advanced forms characterized by angioinvasion, multifocality, and metastatic spread. Despite extensive molecular characterization at the tissue level, the clinical relevance of circulating omics-derived proteins in reflecting disease aggressiveness remains insufficiently explored. This study evaluated postoperative serum levels of selected thyroid cancer tissue omics-derived proteins, such as Malectin (MLEC), Thioredoxin-Interacting Protein (TXNIP), Nephronectin (NPNT), Fibronectin-1 (FN1), and Alpha-1-Acid Glycoprotein (ORM1), in relation to clinicopathological features of aggressive PTC. Serum concentrations of the analyzed proteins were measured using ELISA. The study group comprised 79 patients with histopathologically confirmed angioinvasive, multifocal, or metastatic PTC, while the reference group included 25 patients with very low-risk, non-invasive PTC. Subgroup analyses included angioinvasive PTC, multifocal PTC, and an advanced PTC category comprising patients with coexisting aggressive features, including angioinvasion, multifocality, and metastatic disease. Group comparisons were performed using the Mann-Whitney U test with false discovery rate (FDR) correction and effect size estimation. Exploratory univariable logistic regression and ROC curve analyses were subsequently performed to quantify the direction and strength of the associations and to assess discriminatory performance. Among the evaluated serum markers, only postoperative NPNT concentrations were significantly lower in patients with angioinvasive, multifocal, and advanced PTC compared with the reference group (angioinvasive: median 2.21 ng/mL vs. 2.78 ng/mL, p < 0.01, FDR = 0.01; multifocal: median 2.13 ng/mL, p = 0.01, FDR = 0.04; advanced: median 2.01 ng/mL, p = 0.01, FDR = 0.02). In contrast, serum levels of MLEC, TXNIP, FN1, and ORM1 did not differ significantly between aggressive and non-invasive PTC subgroups after correction for multiple testing. Exploratory univariable logistic regression analyses confirmed an inverse association between NPNT levels and aggressive clinicopathological features (OR range: 0.33-0.42), while ROC analyses indicated moderate discrimination (AUC approximately 0.72-0.73). An additional exploratory LASSO model incorporating NPNT and lipid parameters yielded an apparent AUC of 0.81; however, this result requires cautious interpretation because the model was not externally validated. Reduced postoperative serum NPNT levels are associated with histopathological features of more advanced PTC. Although these findings do not establish NPNT as a clinically applicable or validated biomarker, they suggest an association between postoperative NPNT concentrations and aggressive clinicopathological PTC phenotypes. The proposed links with extracellular matrix-related pathways and lipid metabolism remain hypothetical. Further prospective and preoperative studies are warranted to clarify the biological and clinical significance of NPNT in thyroid cancer progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
Exposure to mercury (Hg) is associated with neurological disorders. Polymorphisms in genes involved in the toxicokinetic and toxicodynamic of Hg may be associated with susceptibility to adverse neurological effects of Hg. This study examined the relationship between polymorphisms in TNF-α (rs1799964, rs1799724 and rs1800629), IL-6 (rs1800795) and MMP-2 (rs2285053) with Hg levels and neurological impact in the Munduruku indigenous population. A cross-sectional study was conducted in the Brazilian Amazon, analyzing 188 individuals for hair Hg levels, polymorphisms, and neurological alterations. Participants ranged in age from 0 to 72 years and the majority (50.8%) were male. The median Hg level was 6.9 µg/g (1.4-23.9 µg/g), with 97.4% of individuals having levels above the tolerable limit of ≥ 2.0 µg/g. A positive correlation was observed between fish consumption and higher Hg levels (p = 0.03). The genotypic frequencies of all polymorphisms were in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. Distal pinprick perception (p = 0.01) and foot mechanical detection threshold (p = 0.02) were positively associated with the TNF-α rs1799964, while toe amyotrophy was positively associated with the TNF-α rs1799724 polymorphism (p = 0.02). Distal thermal sensitivity abnormalities (p = 0.009) and distal pinprick perception (p = 0.034) were positively associated with the MMP-2 rs2285053 polymorphism. In conclusion, the TNF-α (rs1799964 and rs1799724) and MMP-2 (rs2285053) polymorphisms were associated with the neurotoxic effects of Hg in Brazilian indigenous populations. Integrating genetic analysis with environmental exposure monitoring can help to identify individuals who are more susceptible to selected neurological findings. This could improve public health strategies aimed at addressing the impact of Hg exposure, which has been dumped indiscriminately into the Amazon rivers due to illegal gold mining practices.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Blast-induced lung injury (BLI) is a life-threatening complication of explosive shock waves, yet its molecular mechanisms remain largely unclear. This study aimed to elucidate the key molecular mechanisms governing epithelial barrier integrity during BLI progression and define the core regulatory function of Transcription Factor EB (TFEB) and its downstream signaling axis in BLI pathogenesis. We also evaluated the therapeutic effect and underlying mechanism of the hydrogen sulfide (H2S)-releasing nanozyme (Pt@Pd-S), intending to offer novel targets and translational therapeutic strategies for BLI. Bioinformatic analysis of single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data revealed activation of adherens junction, tight junction, and multiple stress-related signaling pathways in epithelial cells. Transcription factor analysis identified TFEB as a pivotal regulator in these pathological processes. Functional experiments demonstrated that TFEB overexpression via lentiviral delivery significantly alleviated BLI, as evidenced by reduced pulmonary edema, inflammation, oxidative stress and improved barrier integrity. Insulin-like growth factor 2 receptor (IGF2R) was identified as a novel target of TFEB and participates in the protection against shock wave-induced epithelial barrier damage by regulating the release of matrix metallopeptidase 2 (MMP-2) and matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP-9). Furthermore, the Pt@Pd-S nanozyme promoted S-sulfhydration of TFEB at the Cys212 residue, thereby enhancing its transcriptional activity, upregulating autophagy, improving lysosomal function, and maintaining epithelial barrier integrity and mitigating lung injury through modulating the IGF2R/MMP-2/9 signaling pathway. Collectively, our findings uncover a previously unrecognized TFEB/IGF2R/MMP-2/9-autophagy and lysosomal axis in the pathogenesis of BLI and highlight the promise of engineered H2S-releasing nanozymes as a therapeutic strategy for pulmonary trauma.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
A strong correlation has been observed between diabetes mellitus (DM) with the pathogenesis of osteoarthritis (OA). This study aimed to elucidate the cellular and molecular mechanisms by which DM exacerbates OA, through multiomics analysis of synovium and cartilage from OA patients with type 2 DM (T2DMOA).Single-cell RNA sequencing, bulk RNA sequencing, and metabolome profiling were performed on knee cartilage and synovium from 21 patients with OA or T2DMOA to investigate the differences in transcriptional landscape, intercellular signalling networks, transcription factor regulatory patterns, and alterations in metabolic pathways.Single-cell profiling of synovium-cartilage tissues revealed distinct pathological alterations in T2DMOA patients compared to non-diabetic OA controls. In the T2DMOA synovium, we observed significantly enhanced differentiation of sublining fibroblasts into lining fibroblasts, along with enriched pathways governing energy metabolism, vasculogenesis, and cell proliferation. For cell-cell communication between cartilage and synovium, hepatocyte growth factor (HGF)-mesenchymal-epithelial transition factor (MET), fibroblast growth factors (FGF) 10-FGF receptor 1 (FGFR1), and nicotinamide phosphoribosyl transferase (NAMPT)-(integrin subunit alpha 5 (ITGA5) + integrin subunit beta 1 (ITGB1)) from synoviocytes to chondrocytes, as well as angiopoietin-like protein 2 (ANGPTL2)-toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and ANGPTL2-(ITGA5 + IGTB1) from chondrocytes to synoviocytes, showed a notable increase in T2DMOA patients. Conversely, T2DMOA cartilage exhibited a pronounced suppression of metabolic activity, particularly in amino acid transport and glycan biosynthesis. Additionally, transcription factors of synoviocytes and chondrocytes were clustered into five and four major modules, respectively, with various functions.Our findings define a diabetes-specific OA phenotype, characterized by aberrant synovial fibroblast activation, dysregulated synovium-cartilage crosstalk, and impaired cartilage metabolism. This integrated view establishes T2DMOA as a unique metabolic-subtype of OA, driven by disrupted intercellular communication and metabolic reprogramming.© 2026 Wen et al.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) constitutes a formidable global health challenge. Lenvatinib, a multi-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI), has gradually become a cornerstone therapeutic agent for advanced HCC; however, the emergence of drug resistance severely compromises its clinical efficacy and remains a major obstacle to improving patient outcomes. In this study, we identified key genes associated with lenvatinib resistance, among which regulator of nuclear pre-mRNA domain-containing protein 1A (RPRD1A) emerged as a prominent candidate. Functional assays demonstrated that RPRD1A overexpression significantly reduces the sensitivity of HCC to lenvatinib, whereas its knockdown restores drug responsiveness. Mechanistically, RPRD1A competes with RNA polymerase II-associated protein 2 (RPAP2) for binding to RNA polymerase II (RNA Pol II), thereby derepressing integrin subunit alpha 5 (ITGA5) transcription via a c-JUN-dependent pathway. Upregulated ITGA5 subsequently activates focal adhesion kinase (FAK) signaling, which critically drives lenvatinib resistance. Notably, combined treatment with lenvatinib and either the ITGA5 inhibitor volociximab or the FAK inhibitor defactinib effectively reversed lenvatinib resistance in preclinical models. Furthermore, clinical analyses revealed that elevated expression of RPRD1A and ITGA5 correlates with poor response to lenvatinib in HCC patients, reinforcing their potential as predictive biomarkers for therapeutic resistance. Collectively, our results demonstrate that co-targeting the RPRD1A-ITGA5-FAK signaling axis in combination with lenvatinib represents a promising strategy to improve therapeutic efficacy in HCC.© 2026. The Author(s).
In-stent restenosis remains a major challenge in coronary artery disease management. The proliferation, migration, and phenotypic switching of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) are key drivers of neointimal hyperplasia and restenosis. Pharmacological agents targeting these processes may therefore offer a strategy to prevent or treat neointima formation. Here, we demonstrate that elafibranor (also known as GFT505), a dual agonist of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα) and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor delta (PPARδ), significantly reduced neointima formation in a mouse model of carotid artery injury. In vitro, PDGF-BB stimulation induced VSMC proliferation, migration, and a phenotypic switch towards a synthetic state-all of which were markedly suppressed by elafibranor. Cell Counting Kit-8 assays, 5-Ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) incorporation, and proliferation markers (phosphorylated histone H3 (Ser10) and Proliferating Cell Nuclear Antigen (PCNA)) indicated that elafibranor inhibited VSMC proliferation primarily by inducing cell cycle arrest at the G2/M phase. Transwell assays and reduced expression of matrix metallopeptidase 2 (MMP2) and matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP9) pointed to a significant inhibition of VSMC migration. In addition, elafibranor suppressed the transition of VSMCs from a contractile to a synthetic phenotype, as shown by changes in marker expression. Mechanistically, transcriptome sequencing with Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), Gene Ontology (GO), and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) analyses revealed that elafibranor modulated pathways linked to cell proliferation and cycle control. In particular, it downregulated cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1), a key regulator of the G2/M checkpoint. Overexpression of CDK1 reversed the inhibitory effects of elafibranor on VSMC proliferation, migration, and phenotypic switching. Together, these findings identify elafibranor as a potential therapeutic agent capable of suppressing neointimal hyperplasia, pointing to a new approach for preventing and treating in-stent restenosis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42146949 is a review article
Aortic dissection (AD) is a life-threatening vascular disorder characterized by medial degeneration and phenotypic switching of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). While integrin subunit alpha 5 (ITGA5) has been implicated in VSMC plasticity, the upstream molecular mechanisms governing its regulation remain poorly defined.Publicly available transcriptomic datasets were analyzed using differential expression analysis and WGCNA to identify hub genes associated with AD. The UbiBrowser database was employed to predict potential E3 ubiquitin ligases targeting ITGA5. In vitro, human aortic smooth muscle cells (HASMCs) were stimulated with Angiotensin II to mimic pathological conditions, and subjected to gain and loss-of-function assays, protein stability analysis, and co-immunoprecipitation in combination with HEK-293T cells. A BAPN-induced AD mouse model was utilized to evaluate the in vivo studies. Protein and gene expression were assessed by Western blotting, qPCR, and immunofluorescence.ITGA5 promoted the phenotypic switch of HASMCs toward a synthetic/inflammatory state. Deltex E3 ubiquitin ligase 1 (DTX1) directly interacted with ITGA5 and promoted its ubiquitination at lysine 137, leading to proteasome-dependent degradation. DTX1 overexpression suppressed ITGA5 levels, maintained contractile marker expression, and inhibited the synthetic/inflammatory phenotype of HASMCs. In vivo, DTX1 expression was downregulated and ITGA5 upregulated in BAPN-treated aortas, whereas DTX1 overexpression reduced ITGA5 levels, preserved medial integrity, and attenuated AD progression.This study identifies DTX1 as a novel E3 ubiquitin ligase that promotes ITGA5 degradation, thereby maintaining the contractile phenotype of VSMCs and limiting AD progression. Targeting the DTX1-ITGA5 axis may offer a promising therapeutic approach for AD.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
The development of colorectal cancer (CRC) results from the progressive accumulation of genetic and epigenetic alterations, leading to the inactivation of tumor suppressor genes and activation of oncogenes. Aquaporin 1 (AQP1) has been shown to promote tumor angiogenesis; however, its specific role in CRC proliferation and migration remains unclear. This study aims to investigate the functions of miR-210-5p and AQP1 in CRC cell proliferation and migration. Using online datasets from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and ten clinical samples, we examined AQP1 expression in CRC. Bioinformatic analysis was conducted to identify miRNAs potentially regulating AQP1. The effects of miR-210-5p and AQP1 on invasion and migration were further assessed in vivo in xenograft Balb/c nu/nu mice. Results showed that dysregulated AQP1 expression in CRC was correlated with advanced clinical stage and venous invasion. miR-210-5p was predicted to bind AQP1 and may target its expression. In vitro experiments revealed that miR-210-5p inhibits CRC proliferation and invasion by downregulating AQP1, which subsequently reduces the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGR), Wnt-7a, Matrix metallopeptidase 2 (MMP2), MMP9, and β-catenin. Targeting AQP1 led to suppressed proliferation and migration of CRC cells. In summary, AQP1 is upregulated in CRC and regulated by miR-210-5p. Downregulation of AQP1 by miR-210-5p attenuates CRC proliferation and migration through decreasing VEGR, Wnt-7a, MMP2, MMP9, and β-catenin expression.Copyright© 2025 Polish Physiological Society.
This paper constructed a reactive oxygen species(ROS)-responsive hydrogel loaded with sodium tanshinone Ⅱ_A sulfonate(STS) and salvianolic acid B(SAB) and evaluated its therapeutic effect on hypertrophic scars. A hydrogel was prepared by using hyaluronic acid(HA) and polyvinyl alcohol(PVA) bridged by phenylboronic acid(PBA) as the matrix with two drugs physically encapsulated inside. Its structure, rheological properties, and drug release behavior were characterized. Scar models of rabbit ears were established and divided into a blank control group, a model group, an asiaticoside cream group, a regular drug-loaded hydrogel group, and a drug-loaded ROS-responsive hydrogel group. After 21 days of intervention, the net increased thickness of the car was detected. The tissue morphology was detected by using hematoxylin-eosin and Masson staining. The expressions of α-smooth muscle actin(α-SMA) and collagen-Ⅰ(COL-Ⅰ) were detected by immunohistochemistry, and the levels of transforming growth factor-β1(TGF-β1), tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1(TIMP-1), matrix metallopeptidase-9(MMP-9), ROS, and 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine(8-OHdG) were assessed. The results show that, compared to those in the model group, the net increased thickness of scar, TGF-β1, TIMP-1, ROS, 8-OHdG, α-SMA, and COL-Ⅰ in each treatment group were significantly reduced(P&lt;0.05), while MMP-9 levels were increased(P&lt;0.05), and the improvement effect in the drug-loaded ROS-responsive hydrogel group was better than that in the regular drug-loaded hydrogel group(P&lt;0.05). These findings indicate that the hydrogel can achieve smart drug release and significantly inhibit scar formation, providing a new strategy for treatment.
Based on a strategy integrating topological feature identification and path priority assessment, this study systematically explored the efficacy targets and differentiated mechanisms of Colquhounia Root Tablets(CRT) in the &quot;homotherapy for heteropathy&quot; of rheumatoid arthritis(RA) and diabetic kidney disease(DKD). Firstly, candidate targets of CRT and disease-specific genes were retrieved by integrating multi-source databases and transcriptomic data. Protein-protein interaction(PPI) networks were constructed to identify key targets shared by or specific to RA and DKD via topological feature identification. Subsequently, a path priority assessment was introduced to calculate the average shortest path(ASP) values from drug targets to various pathological segments, thereby quantifying intervention efficacy to lock onto &quot;dominant pharmacodynamic links&quot;. The predicted key functional axes were validated through animal experiments. The results indicated that the core targets of CRT for both diseases involved shared pathways such as phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase(PI3K)-protein kinase B(Akt), tumor necrosis factor(TNF), and glycolysis/gluconeogenesis. Notably, path priority assessment revealed distinct dominant intervention links: for RA, CRT preferentially targeted &quot;fibroblast-like synoviocyte(FLS) activation and invasion&quot;(ASP=2.361), which mapped to the TNF-p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase(p38)-LIM domain kinase 1(LIMK1)-Cofilin1 axis to regulate cytoskeleton remodeling; for DKD, the dominant link was &quot;filtration barrier injury and interstitial fibrosis&quot;(ASP=2.295), converging on the TNF-poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1(PARP1)-signal transducer and activator of transcription 1(STAT1)-matrix metallopeptidase 9(MMP9) axis to mediate cellular senescence and senescence-associated secretory phenotype(SASP) secretion. Animal experiments confirmed that CRT significantly alleviated RA synovial invasion and DKD renal fibrosis by inhibiting these two differentiated signaling axes, respectively. By employing topological feature identification and path priority assessment, this study elucidates the scientific connotation of &quot;homotherapy for heteropathy&quot; of RA and DKD with CRT through both shared network regulation and intervention in disease-specific differential signaling axes associated with pharmacodynamic links.
Oxidative stress and inflammation are closely associated with ocular surface disorders, including dry eye disease (DED), keratitis, and corneal erosion. These pathological processes contribute to an imbalance in tear composition and induce structural and functional alterations of the cornea. In this context, natural compounds with antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities have emerged as promising strategies for preserving ocular health and mitigating the effects of corneal injuries. In the present study, we investigated the potential protective effects of troxerutin (TX), a naturally occurring flavonoid, in attenuating oxidative stress and promoting the restoration of corneal tissue architecture.To this end, an H2O2-induced oxidative stress model was established using human corneal epithelial cells (HCE) SkinEthic™ 3D tissues. Cells were pretreated with TX and, after 24 hours, stimulated with H2O2 for 10 minutes.TX showed a protective effect against oxidative injury in the HCE 3D model and supported morphological recovery consistent with re-epithelialization through the upregulation of tight junction proteins zona occludens-1 (ZO-1) and Occludin. In addition, TX helped attenuate inflammatory responses by regulating interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-8 (IL-8), matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP-9), and key adhesion molecules, including intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and P-selectin.Overall, these findings emphasize the potential of TX as a natural compound that may contribute to the prevention and management of corneal damage.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Rosacea, a chronic inflammatory skin disorder, severely impairs patients' quality of life and imposes substantial medical burdens. Existing treatments are hampered by unsatisfactory therapeutic effects and high recurrence rates, driving urgent research into novel pathogenic mechanisms. As a common spice and cosmetic preservative, cinnamaldehyde's safety risks in rosacea patients remain poorly characterized. This study aimed to integrate network toxicology with in vitro cellular assays to clarify its pathogenic roles and molecular pathways, providing novel theoretical support for its adverse impacts on rosacea sufferers. First, we predicted the target genes of cinnamaldehyde using the PubChem, SwissTargetPrediction, SuperPred, and ChEMBL databases. Second, we obtained relevant targets for rosacea using the GeneCards and CTD databases and identified the intersection targets with toxic substances. Then, we constructed a protein-protein interaction network of the core toxic substance combination using the STRING database and performed Gene Ontology functional enrichment analysis and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analysis to predict possible mechanisms. Subsequently, molecular docking validation of the active ingredients with the main targets was performed using AutoDock Vina software. Finally, cinnamaldehyde was added to the rosacea-like cellular model in HaCaT cells to assess its effects and molecular mechanisms by Cell Counting Kit-8, reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Database screening revealed 43 overlapping targets between the 195 predicted targets of cinnamaldehyde and the 1889 disease-related targets for rosacea, which included notable proteins such as prostaglandin‑endoperoxide synthase 2 (cyclooxygenase‑2; PTGS2), matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP9), and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). Protein-protein interaction analysis identified PTGS2 as a pivotal hub protein, while Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analysis indicated that interleukin-17 signaling and lipid metabolism are vital mechanisms involved in rosacea. Molecular docking studies demonstrated strong binding affinities between cinnamaldehyde and the identified core targets. Furthermore, cell culture experiments confirmed that cinnamaldehyde exacerbates rosacea by upregulating the expression of PTGS2, MMP9, and EGFR, along with increasing the production of inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-8 and interleukin-1 beta. In summary, our findings elucidate the potential pathogenic mechanisms by which cinnamaldehyde may induce rosacea, highlighting the roles of the core targets PTGS2, MMP9, and EGFR in mediating inflammation. This research provides new scientific insights that could inform preventive strategies and therapeutic interventions aimed at managing the toxicity associated with rosacea.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is a common malignant tumor in the oral and maxillofacial region with a poor prognosis, and its pathophysiology has not been fully elucidated. Although FKBP10 is overexpressed in multiple malignancies, its function and regulatory mechanism in OSCC remain largely unknown. Methods: OSCC and paired adjacent normal tissue samples were collected, and public datasets including The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) were integrated. Bioinformatics approaches including Weighted Gene Co-Expression Network Analysis (WGCNA), limma differential expression analysis and machine learning were applied to screen candidate target genes. Single-cell and spatial transcriptome analyses were performed to delineate the main expression domain of FKBP10 and its distribution in macrophages. Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), colony formation, Transwell, wound healing and flow cytometry assays were conducted to examine the effects of FKBP10 knockdown on the biological behaviors of SCC-9 cells. Western blot and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) were adopted to explore the potential molecular mechanism. Result: Bioinformatics research identified FKBP10 as a significant target gene for OSCC. FKBP10 is predominantly enriched in fibroblasts and significantly upregulated in OSCC tissues. It has a strong positive correlation with M2-type macrophage infiltration and is linked to a negative outcome for patients. FKBP10 knockdown can cause cell apoptosis, stop the cell cycle at the G0/G1 phase, and prevent SCC-9 cells from proliferating, migrating, and invading. Meanwhile, knockdown of FKBP10 downregulated the protein levels of Periostin (POSTN), Integrin Subunit Beta 5 (ITGB5) and key WNT signaling molecules. Conclusion༚FKBP10 may influence the recruitment of M2-type macrophages by regulating the ECM/integrin adhesion signal and the WNT pathway, thereby changing the tumor immune milieu and encouraging the occurrence and progression of OSCC. It is projected to become a promising biomarker and target for prognostic evaluation and targeted therapy of OSCC.© 2026. The Author(s).
In ruminants, progesterone promotes uterine development to create a favourable environment for an embryo. However, the mechanisms by which progesterone regulates the function of the endometrial epithelial cells that line the uterus remain unclear. To investigate likely mechanisms, this study used different concentrations of progesterone to treat cells from a bovine endometrial epithelial cell (BEEC) line. The effect of the treatments was assessed by constructing mRNA expression profiles of the cells using RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq). Compared to the control cells (0 ng/mL progesterone), it was revealed that expression of the cytokine interleukin 6 (IL6) was upregulated (P < 0.05) with both the 10 ng/mL and 15 ng/mL progesterone treatment of the BEECs. There was decreased expression of the matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP9) enzyme (P < 0.05) and increased expression of the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) gene (P < 0.05) in the 5, 10, and 15 ng/mL progesterone treated BEECs. In total, 138, 132 and 385 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in the BEECs treated with 5, 10 and 15 ng/mL of progesterone respectively, with these genes mainly associated with leukotriene and oxytocin signalling pathways, cell surface receptor signalling and GnRH secretion, multicellular organism process regulation, and TNF-related signalling pathways. The study revealed that BEECs treated with 10 ng/mL progesterone had increased β-arrestin 1 gene (ARRB1) expression, which would inhibit the extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (Erk1/2) pathway, and reduce gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) secretion, thus potentially affecting follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinising hormone (LH) activity. A small interfering RNA (siRNA) approach was then employed to disrupt ARRB1 expression. The siRNA suppressed ARRB1 expression, promoted Erk1/2 expression, and increased GnRH secretion. In conclusion, progesterone induces concentration-dependent gene expression changes in BEECs, and inhibits GnRH secretion in BEECs through the ARRB1-Erk1/2 signalling pathway. These findings provide in-vitro mechanistic insights into the direct actions of progesterone on endometrial epithelial cells.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Neonatal sepsis can disrupt brain development through oxidative stress, blood-brain barrier (BBB) dysfunction, peripheral leukocyte infiltration, and white matter injury. N-acetylcysteine (NAC), a glutathione precursor with antioxidant and immunomodulatory properties, is a promising neuroprotective candidate, but its effects in neonatal sepsis-like brain injury remain incompletely defined. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether early NAC pretreatment, followed by continued treatment, was associated with protection in a neonatal LPS model and examine the principal mechanisms associated with its effects.In this study, neonatal C57BL/6J mice received lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 3 mg/kg, subcutaneously) on postnatal day (PND) 3 to model sepsis-like injury. NAC was administered intraperitoneally 2 h before LPS (200 mg/kg), followed by daily treatment (100 mg/kg/day) through PND14. Survival was monitored to PND21. Acute outcomes at PND4 included oxidative stress, glial/inflammatory markers, MPO-positive cell accumulation, apoptosis, and BBB-related injury. Longer-term outcomes included myelination, dentate gyrus proliferation, and behavior.NAC improved survival after neonatal LPS exposure, with exploratory sex-stratified analyses suggesting greater benefit in males. NAC partially restored cortical glutathione levels and reduced lipid peroxidation, indicating improved redox balance. Although it did not significantly alter galectin-3, GFAP, or NLRP3 at the time point examined, NAC reduced cortical MPO-positive cell burden and attenuated markers associated with neurovascular injury and BBB-associated pathology, including matrix metallopeptidase-9 expression and albumin extravasation. NAC also decreased apoptosis in selected brain regions and partly improved white matter-related outcomes, including oligodendrocyte precursor cell abundance, myelination, and early sensorimotor performance. However, long-term behavioral performance in the open field and novel object recognition tests was not significantly improved at PND60.Overall, early NAC pretreatment followed by continued treatment mitigated neonatal LPS-induced sepsis-like brain injury and improved survival, with protection associated with restoration of redox homeostasis and reduction of MPO-positive leukocyte and markers associated with neurovascular injury and BBB-associated pathology rather than broad suppression of measured inflammatory mediators. These findings are consistent with a potential role for a redox-neurovascular-leukocyte pathway in NAC-associated neuroprotection and support further evaluation of NAC in prevention-oriented experimental paradigms relevant to high-risk preterm populations.© 2026. The Author(s).
ITGB5 encodes integrin subunit beta 5 of that has been implicated in the eosinophilic asthma phenotype. However, the secretory profile of ITGB5 in induced sputum and its clinical significance in asthma remains poorly understood.This study aimed to measure ITGB5 levels in induced sputum supernatant from asthma patients and investigate its potential clinical implications.We enrolled 78 participants (18 healthy controls and 60 asthma patients) and quantified ITGB5 protein levels in induced sputum supernatant using ELISA. Correlations between ITGB5 and inflammatory markers, as well as airway obstruction parameters, were analyzed. Subsequently, we performed comparative analyses to evaluate variations in inflammatory cytokines between high- and low-ITGB5 expression subgroups.Induced sputum ITGB5 levels were significantly elevated in asthma patients and markedly increased following inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) treatment. ITGB5 levels showed positive correlations with Th2-associated cytokines (IL-4, IL-5, IL-13, IL-25, IL-33, and TSLP) and Th2 signature genes (SERPINB2, CLCA1, and POSTN). Notably, IL-5, FeNO, and POSTN were significantly higher in the high-ITGB5(n = 30) than the low- ITGB5 (n = 30) expression group. Furthermore, sputum ITGB5 levels were inversely associated with pulmonary function (FEV1% pred, FVC% pred, MEF% pred, MEF25% pred and MEF50% pred).Increased sputum ITGB5 in asthma was positively associated with inflammatory mediators and negatively correlated with pulmonary function, suggesting that ITGB5 upregulation may be involved in airway inflammation and obstruction in asthma pathogenesis.
Osteoporosis is characterized by increased bone fragility and elevated fracture risk, severely compromising patients' quality of life. This study aimed to investigate the therapeutic potential of isoorientin (Iso) against osteoporosis and elucidate its underlying mechanisms. Using a combination of in vitro approaches, we demonstrated that Iso effectively inhibited RANKL-induced osteoclast differentiation in RAW 264.7 cells and downregulated the expression of key osteoclastic markers-including matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP9), cathepsin K (CTSK), c-fos, and nuclear factor of activated T-cells 1 (NFATc1)-at both protein and mRNA levels. Iso also exhibited potent anti-inflammatory and antioxidant activities, reducing the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, TNF-α, IL-1β) and malondialdehyde (MDA) while enhancing superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity and glutathione (GSH) content. Mechanistically, Iso acts by suppressing the ROS/PPARγ/NF-κB signaling axis. In vitro, the anti-osteoclastogenic effect of Iso was attenuated by the PPARγ agonist, and either the PPARγ antagonist or the NF-κB inhibitor BAY 11-7082 alone effectively inhibited osteoclast differentiation. In an ovariectomy (OVX)-induced osteoporotic mouse model, Iso treatment significantly prevented bone loss, improved bone microarchitecture, and suppressed osteoclast activity. Notably, administration of the PPARγ antagonist GW9662 or the NF-κB inhibitor BAY 11-7082 alone also exerted clear bone-protective effects in vivo, further validating these two pathways as viable therapeutic targets for osteoporosis. In conclusion, isoorientin exerts anti-osteoporotic effects by inhibiting the ROS/PPARγ/NF-κB signaling pathway, with efficacy comparable to clinical drugs, offering a promising novel candidate for the management of osteoporosis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Thyroid cancer (TC) is the most common malignant tumor of the endocrine system, and its incidence has increased annually. Although TC generally has a favorable prognosis, some patients experience recurrence after treatment. Therefore, understanding the pathogenic mechanisms of TC is crucial for improving its treatment. It was hypothesized that ITGA7 suppresses TC by binding to FN1 and inhibiting the PI3K/AKT pathway. This study aimed to test this hypothesis and elucidate the underlying mechanism.Expression of Integrin Subunit Alpha 7 (ITGA7) and Fibronectin 1 (FN1) was evaluated in paired samples of normal thyroid and TC tissues via reverse transcription quantitative real-time PCR (RT-qPCR) and immunohistochemistry (IHC). ITGA7 and FN1 mRNA and protein levels were further assessed using RT-qPCR and Western blot analysis. Functional assays included Cell Counting Kit-8 for cell viability, 5-Ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) incorporation for proliferation, Transwell for migration and invasion, and flow cytometry for apoptosis. Protein interaction and co-localization between ITGA7 and FN1 were confirmed through co-immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence (IF). Western blot was used to examine Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Protein Kinase B (PI3K/AKT) signaling pathway components, and IHC was applied to assess related protein expression in clinical specimens. A xenograft model in nude mice was established to investigate the role of ITGA7 in tumor growth in vivo. Bioinformatics tools including STRING and GEPIA were utilized to predict potential interactions involving ITGA7.RT-qPCR and IHC revealed decreased ITGA7 expression in TC compared to adjacent normal tissues. Consistent downregulation was observed at both mRNA and protein levels in TC cell lines. Functional loss-of-function experiments showed that ITGA7 knockdown enhanced viability, proliferation, migration, and invasion, and suppressed apoptosis. FN1 was identified as an ITGA7-binding partner with negatively correlated expression. FN1 was upregulated in TC tissues, and its silencing impeded malignant phenotypes including proliferation and migration, while promoting apoptosis. The protein interaction and co-localization between ITGA7 and FN1 were experimentally validated. Western blot analysis demonstrated that silencing ITGA7 upregulated FN1 and activated the PI3K/AKT pathway. Conversely, FN1 knockdown suppressed pathway activity. In vivo studies confirmed that ITGA7 suppressed tumor progression by inhibiting the FN1-mediated activation of the PI3K/AKT pathway. Rescue assays demonstrated that FN1 depletion counteracted the oncogenic effects of ITGA7 silencing.The expression of ITGA7 in TC tissues and cells was significantly lower than that in normal tissues and cells. ITGA7 inhibits TC progression by interacting with FN1 and suppressing PI3K/AKT signaling pathway activation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is more common in certain geographic regions and populations and is frequently diagnosed at advanced stages, highlighting the importance of identifying factors associated with survival.Patients were selected from two previously conducted genome-wide association studies, resulting in a discovery cohort (n=314) and a validation cohort (n=135). Overall survival and disease-free survival were analyzed using Cox proportional hazards models adjusted for clinical covariates in both cohorts and a combined analysis of the data. Variants associated with survival in both cohorts (p<0.05) and showing consistent direction of effects were retained, and combined p-values are reported.The T allele of rs4671908, a variant located upstream of pleckstrin (PLEK) was linked to worse overall survival (hazard ratio=1.85, 95% confidence interval=1.48-2.32; p<10-7). The T allele of rs2238431, a variant located within adenylate cyclase 9 (ADCY9), was associated with poor disease-free survival (hazard ratio=1.73, 95% confidence interval=1.44-2.08; p<10-8). Both associations remained significant after Bonferroni correction. Functional annotation suggested that the T allele of rs4671908 was associated with increased PLEK expression and overlaps a predicted POU class 5 homeobox 1 (POU5F1)-binding site. The risky allele was more common in East Asian populations, consistent with the geographic distribution of NPC. The T allele of rs2238431 was associated with reduced expression of ADCY9.This study identified rs4671908 and rs2238431 as germline variants associated with survival outcomes in NPC and provides epidemiological evidence that may inform future prognostic stratification of high-incidence populations.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) dedifferentiation is a key driver of peripheral artery disease (PAD), a common complication of atherosclerosis. Although matrix metallopeptidase 14 (MMP14) has been implicated in promoting VSMC dedifferentiation, the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely defined. Here, we demonstrate that MMP14 expression is markedly increased in PAD plaques, accompanied by elevated platelet-derived growth factor receptor-β (PDGFRβ) and reduced low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 6 (LRP6) levels, predominantly within VSMCs, compared with plaque-free arterial segments. Mechanistically, MMP14 selectively promoted LRP6 shedding without affecting LRP5 in VSMCs. Genetic or pharmacological inhibition of MMP14 increased LRP6 abundance, reduced PDGFRβ and SP1 expression, attenuated ERK phosphorylation, and suppressed VSMC proliferation and migration. In contrast, MMP14 overexpression produced opposite effects. Collectively, these findings indicate that MMP14 enhances VSMC proliferation and migration through modulation of the LRP6-PDGFRβ signaling axis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Liver cancer progression is largely driven by liver cancer stem cells (LCSCs), which possess self-renewal capacity and intrinsic resistance to therapy. Emerging evidence suggests that nuclear pore complexes exhibit cell type-specific compositions that dynamically adapt to different developmental or pathologic contexts. However, whether LCSCs harbor a unique nucleoporin profile that contributes to their stem-like properties remains unclear. In this research, the expression landscape of nucleoporins (NUPs) in LCSCs was explored, and NUP188 was identified as selectively up-regulated in LCSCs. Functional assays demonstrated that NUP188 is essential for maintaining the tumorigenicity, proliferation, and self-renewal capacity of liver cancer cells in vitro as well as in vivo. At the mechanistic level, NUP188 promotes liver cancer progression through two complementary pathways: it facilitates importin-β-mediated nuclear import of POU class 5 homeobox 1, and simultaneously stabilizes SRY-box transcription factor 2 by preventing its lysosome-dependent degradation. These dual mechanisms converge to maintain the stem-like phenotype of LCSCs. Furthermore, a NUP188-targeting peptide was designed that effectively suppressed tumor sphere formation and proliferative capacity of liver cancer cells in vitro and inhibited tumor growth in vivo, without detectable systemic toxicity. In summary, these findings emphasize NUP188 as a key modulator of LCSC stemness and liver cancer progression, highlighting it as an attractive target for therapeutic intervention in liver cancer.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
As a main component of the tissue microenvironment, the extracellular matrix (ECM) provides an instructive niche that regulates stem cell differentiation. Biomimetic ECM collagen hydrogels have been well regarded as ideal scaffold for cartilage tissue engineering due to their ability to promote chondrogenic differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs). However, the molecular mechanisms underlying this inductive effect remain incompletely elucidated.In the present study, mRNA microarray analysis was performed to investigate the molecular mechanisms involved in collagen hydrogel-mediated chondrogenic induction. Real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), western blot, immunofluorescence analyses, etc. were used to validate the relevant pathways.The results demonstrated that POU class 5 homeobox 1 (POU5F1), a transcription factor associated with stem cell differentiation and autophagy, was highly expressed in cells induced by collagen hydrogel. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were predominantly enriched in the AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) / mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway. Knockdown of POU5F1 suppressed activation of the AMPK/mTOR pathway and subsequently reduced intracellular autophagic flux, leading to impaired cartilage regeneration. These effects were partially reversed by treatment with rapamycin (RaPa), an mTOR inhibitor.The findings highlight a critical role of autophagy in chondrogenic induction mediated by biomimetic ECM collagen hydrogel and provide mechanistic insight that may inform the rational design optimization of cartilage repair biomaterials.© The author(s).
Cancer stemness is a critical determinant of tumor progression and poor prognosis in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), however, the mechanisms by how long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) regulate stemness-associated signaling pathways remain incompletely understood. Here, we identify long-intergenic non-coding RNA for kinase activation (LINK-A) as a key regulator of NSCLC stemness that is markedly upregulated in tumor tissues and serum. Functional analyses demonstrate that LINK-A enhances cancer stem-like properties and accelerates tumor growth in vivo. Mechanistically, LINK-A predominantly localizes to the cytoplasm, where it binds to the RNA-binding protein heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K (hnRNPK) and promotes its cytoplasmic retention. Cytoplasmic hnRNPK associates with beta-catenin (β-catenin) and the deubiquitinase ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase 9× (USP9X), preventing β-catenin ubiquitination and subsequently enhancing Wnt/β-catenin signaling. This activation induces the transcription of Nanog homeobox (NANOG) and POU class 5 homeobox 1 (POU5F1/OCT4), thereby sustaining NSCLC stemness. Collectively, these findings identify a previously unrecognized LINK-A/hnRNPK/USP9X/β-catenin signaling axis and highlight LINK-A as a potential biomarker and therapeutic target for NSCLC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Breast cancer is the most common form of cancer among women worldwide, and the rates of both new cases and deaths have increased over the past two decades. The aim of the study was to identify and validate molecular pathways that could potentially be targeted for therapeutic interventions.The bioinformatics resource WebGestalt was used to determine the functional annotation of the Gene Ontology, as well as enrichment analysis of Reactome and KEGG pathways in 2023-2024. GeneMANIA, a server for assessing protein-gene interactions, co-localization, pathways, co-expression, and protein-domain similarity of target genes and their interacting genes, was evaluated via this web tool. GEO was also used to determine mRNA expression levels in BRCA individuals. R packages were used to screen for differentially expressed genes for both datasets. On the other hand, the open cancer resources GENT2 TNMPlot, UCSCXena, ENCORI platform, BioXpress, OncoDB, OncoMX, and GEPIA2 were used to measure the differential expression of mRNAs in BRCA patients.Among the genes analyzed, matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP9) showed the greatest change. Similarly, matrix metallopeptidase 14 (MMP14) and Endogenous Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor-A (VEGFA) showed significant increases. Other up-regulated genes, including Apolipoprotein E (APOE), Hypoxia-Inducible Factor-1 Alpha (HIF1A), and Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF) showed minimal expression changes with minor fluctuations. Finally, Interleukin-1 alpha precursor (IL1A) exhibited a slight increase in expression. Validation of gene expression changes through microarray studies on the GSE37751 and GSE42568 datasets provided consistent and significant results for several of the studied genes. GO analysis further revealed significant molecular functions, cellular components, KEGG pathways, and biological processes that were enriched among the differentially expressed genes. Among the top pathways identified based on FDR and P value were receptor binding signaling, regulation of cell migration, the extracellular matrix, and the AGE-RAGE signaling pathway.The results predict that the hub genes correlated with angiogenesis may serve as potential therapeutic targets or could be biomarkers for breast cancer.Copyright: © Iranian Journal of Medical Sciences.
Dizziness/vertigo is a multifactorial neurological disorder with complex ge-netic and cellular bases, yet its molecular mechanisms remain unclear. Understanding how gene regulation contributes to dizziness/vertigo may reveal novel neurobiological and therapeutic insights.We established a multi-omics integrative framework combining genome-wide association study (GWAS) data with expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) from brain single-cell types, CD4+ T cells, oneK1K immune cells, and plasma. Two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) and colocalization analyses were applied to identify causal genes. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) of the auditory nerve was used to as-sess cell type-specific expression, intercellular communication, and pseudotime dynam-ics. Gene-gene interaction and drug-target networks were further constructed to identify potential therapeutic candidates.Six key genes-Activin A Receptor Type 2 A (ACVR2A), Phospholipid Transfer Protein (PLTP), Androgen Dependent TFPI Regulating Protein (ADTRP), Methylenetetrahydrofolate Dehydrogenase (NADP+ Dependent) 1 Like (MTHFD1L), Collagen Type VII Alpha 1 Chain (COL7A1), and Pantothenate Kinase 4 (PANK4)-showed strong causal and colocalization evidence for dizziness/vertigo. Single-cell analysis revealed distinct cell type-specific expression, with fibroblasts and adipocytes playing central roles in signaling and gene regulation. Pseudo-time trajectories indicated coordinated upregulation of ACVR2A, MTHFD1L, PANK4, and PLTP during later developmental stages. Interaction network analysis positioned these genes as major hubs, and DrugBank screening identified Sotatercept as a promising candidate targeting ACVR2A.This integrative analysis links gene expres-sion regulation to dizziness/vertigo across neuroimmune and metabolic systems. The findings uncover coordinated molecular pathways underlying disease susceptibility and highlight novel therapeutic targets, providing a foundation for precision treatment strate-gies.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder characterized by a triad of behavioral symptoms: involuntary movement, emotional change, and cognitive dysfunction. Although alterations in WNT signaling have been reported in HD, its precise role in pathogenesis remains unclear. In this study, we found that astrocytic WNT5B mRNA and protein levels are elevated in the striatum of both HD patients and HD model mice. The noncanonical WNT5B signaling pathway induced sustained expression of matrix metallopeptidase 14 (MMP14), an extracellular matrix (ECM)-degrading enzyme, via activation of the NFATc2 transcription factor in both human and primary mouse astrocytes. Robust upregulation of MMP14 led to ECM degradation, medium spiny neuron (MSN) damage, and increased mutant huntingtin aggregation in N171-82Q HD transgenic mice. Furthermore, WNT5B gain-of-function exacerbated neuropathology, impaired motor coordination, and shortened the lifespan of N171-82Q mice. We further demonstrated that the overexpression of the estrogen receptor α (ERα) suppresses NFATc2 transcriptional activity in vitro. A targeted therapy for the WNT5B-NFATc2-MMP14 signaling pathway by genistein, a phytoestrogen, reduced MMP14 transcription by antagonizing NFATc2 activity and preventing ECM degradation in N171-82Q mice. Genistein treatment also ameliorated neuropathology and motor deficits and prolonged the lifespan of HD mice. Together, these findings define a molecular pathological mechanism in which astrocytic MMP14 transcription, driven by the noncanonical WNT5B signaling pathway, promotes ECM degradation and MSN damage and accelerates neurodegeneration in HD. Modulation of the noncell-autonomous WNT5B-NFATc2-MMP14 signaling pathway by genistein may serve as a potential therapeutic strategy for mitigating HD pathogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Glioblastoma (GBM) is a highly aggressive brain tumor characterized by aberrant angiogenesis and an immunosuppressive microenvironment. Pericytes are aberrantly recruited but their spatiotemporal roles and molecular changes remain unclear. This study investigated platelet-derived growth factor receptor beta-positive (Pdgfrb+) pericyte dynamics and reprogramming in GBM vasculature.We generated GL261-Luc and GL261-CFP glioblastoma cells via lentiviral transduction and established two transgenic models. (1) For pericyte labeling, Ai14 reporter mice was crossed with PDGFRβ-P2A-CreERT2 mice for tdTomato-specific lineage tracing (PT mice). (2) For conditional ablation, we generated inducible Pdgfrb-expressing cell ablation models (PT mice was crossed with ROSA-DTA mice). An intravital imaging platform (FITC-dextran/CFP/tdTomato + two-photon microscopy) tracked pericytes, vessels, and tumor cells, while FACS-sorted Pdgfrb+ cells from GBM and normal brain were analyzed by LC-MS/MS proteomics.Cre-mediated ablation of Pdgfrb-expressing cells revealed stage-dependent effects on GBM growth: early ablation inhibited progression while late ablation promoted it. Pericytes undergo dual spatial reorganization in GBM: regional enrichment with pre-sprouting accumulation at the tumor-brain interface, and focal positioning with preferential localization at vascular branch points. Concurrently, GBM vasculature displayed simplified branching, dilation, and pericyte remodeling (shorter processes, higher density). Proteomics revealed 1426 altered proteins, with upregulated proliferation pathways (e.g., matrix metallopeptidase 14 [Mmp14], lysyl oxidase like 2 [Loxl2]) and downregulated homeostasis functions (e.g., transforming growth factor beta 1 [Tgfb1]), validated by scRNA-seq in human GBM.This study demonstrates that during early GBM progression, pericytes actively drive tumor angiogenesis through molecular reprogramming toward proliferative and pro-angiogenic phenotypes, with the integrated imaging-proteomics framework revealing potential therapeutic targets for disrupting pericyte-mediated vascular remodeling.© 2025 The Author(s). Animal Models and Experimental Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of The Chinese Association for Laboratory Animal Sciences.
Clinically useful noninvasive biomarkers for gastric cancer remain limited. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) carry a molecular cargo reflective of their cells of origin and have emerged as promising candidates for blood-based cancer biomarkers. We aimed to identify EV-associated protein biomarkers for gastric cancer via a proteomic approach.Proteomic profiling of EVs was performed using one normal gastric cell line (Hs738st/int) and two gastric cancer cell lines (AGS and NCI-N87). Selected proteins were validated in blood-derived EVs isolated from plasma samples of 10 healthy controls and 36 patients with gastric cancer.Proteomic analysis identified 224 differentially expressed proteins whose expression was consistently altered in gastric cancer cell line-derived EVs. Among these, vitronectin (VTN) and laminin subunit alpha-3 (LAMA3) were selected based on their consistent upregulation. EV-associated LAMA3 levels were significantly higher in patients with gastric cancer than in healthy controls (p=0.003), with significant elevations observed from stage II onward (p=0.041, p=0.017, and p=0.004 for stages II, III, and IV, respectively). EV-associated VTN levels were not significantly different overall (p=0.089); however, stage-specific analysis demonstrated significant increases in VTN levels in patients with stage III (p=0.036) and stage IV (p=0.005) gastric cancer. Both EV-associated VTN and LAMA3 levels showed significant positive correlations with the cancer stage (ρ=0.564 and ρ=0.611, respectively; both p<0.001).The levels of EV-associated VTN and LAMA3 appear to be more closely associated with disease progression than with early-stage detection of gastric cancer. These findings suggest that EV-based proteomic biomarkers may have clinical utility for monitoring tumor progression in patients with clinically advanced gastric cancer.
Laminin subunit beta 3 (LAMB3) overexpression has been implicated in cancer progression, but its molecular role in gastric cancer (GC) remains unclear. This study aimed to elucidate how LAMB3 promotes GC malignancy and identify the underlying signalling pathways.The clinical significance of LAMB3 was analysed by bioinformatics and immunohistochemistry (IHC) on tissue microarrays. Correlations with clinicopathological parameters were evaluated using Chi-square or Fisher's exact tests, and prognostic value was assessed by log-rank and multivariate Cox regression analyses. Functional assays, including CCK-8, colony formation, Transwell, and xenograft models, were performed to examine the roles of LAMB3 and its downstream effector. Mechanistic studies involved RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), gain- and loss-of-function experiments, RT-qPCR, RNA immunoprecipitation, and western blotting.LAMB3 was significantly upregulated in GC and correlated with aggressive features and poor prognosis. LAMB3 enhanced GC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. RNA-seq identified sterile alpha motif domain-containing protein 4 A (SAMD4A) as a critical downstream effector. Silencing SAMD4A suppressed, while its restoration rescued, LAMB3-induced malignancy. Mechanistically, LAMB3 activated PI3K-Akt signalling through SAMD4A-mediated degradation of PHLPP2 mRNA.This study uncovers a previously unrecognised LAMB3-SAMD4A-PHLPP2 regulatory axis that sustains PI3K-Akt activation and drives GC progression, offering potential prognostic and therapeutic value.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Absorption of chemicals through the skin affects occupational and environmental exposure to diverse compounds. We previously showed that loss-of-function (null) mutations and low-copy number variants (CNV) of Filaggrin (FLG), which encodes a key skin barrier protein, increased dermal chemical absorption; however, the FLG genotype did not explain all the observed variation. Here, we explore the effects of variation in genes encoding skin proteins that could affect chemical uptake. In a dermal exposure test, 23 null-FLG and 31 wild-type carriers were exposed to three common organic compounds: the polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon pyrene, the fungicide pyrimethanil, and the ultraviolet-light absorber oxybenzone. Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry was used to measure the concentrations of these chemicals or their metabolites in the subjects' urine collected over a 40-h period following exposure. We genotyped the participants for 14 polymorphisms in seven skin function-related genes (Filaggrin 2 [FLG2], including a new method for assessing FLG2 CNV, claudin 1 [CLDN1], serine peptidase inhibitor kazal type 5 [SPINK5], S100 calcium binding protein A7 [S100A7], transmembrane protein 79 [TMEM79], laminin subunit alpha 3 [LAMA3], and involucrin [IVL]) and performed a population toxicokinetic analysis. While controlling for FLG genotype, the CLDN1 rs893051 minor allele was associated with increased absorption, faster absorption rate, and longer lag time, while the SPINK5 rs2303067 minor allele was associated with shorter lag time. However, the differences in total systemic absorption were minor compared with FLG variants. Thus, FLG remains the predominant genetic determinant of chemical uptake through the skin.© 2026 The Author(s). Environmental and Molecular Mutagenesis published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Environmental Mutagenesis and Genomics Society.
BACKGROUND: Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a highly lethal malignancy in which immune dysregulation and metabolic remodeling are common features. Laminin subunit alpha 3 (LAMA3), a component of laminin-332 involved in cell–ECM adhesion and integrin-linked signaling, has not been systematically characterized in PDAC in a multi-omics context. METHODS: We conducted an in silico integrative multi-omics analysis using bulk and single-cell transcriptomic datasets, together with WGCNA, functional enrichment, immune deconvolution, CNV inference, pseudotime trajectory analysis, and regulatory network modeling. Candidate upstream regulators were explored computationally, and molecular docking was performed for hypothesis generation. RESULTS: LAMA3 showed higher expression in PDAC compared with non-tumor controls and was associated with pathways related to cell adhesion, extracellular matrix organization/remodeling, and immune-related programs. In bulk deconvolution analyses, higher LAMA3 expression was associated with increased macrophage-related signatures and lower estimated CD8⁺T-cell infiltration. Single-cell analyses indicated predominant expression in epithelial populations and higher CNV activity in LAMA3-high states; LAMA3 expression also tended to increase along inferred pseudotime trajectories, consistent with more advanced malignant epithelial programs. Enrichment analyses further linked LAMA3-high tumors to cell-cycle-, p53-related, and metabolic gene sets. Regulatory modeling prioritized EP300 as a putative upstream transcriptional regulator, and docking analyses suggested a potential interaction between Prostaglandin J2 and EP300, supporting an indirect, hypothesis-generating therapeutic avenue. CONCLUSION: This computational multi-omics study implicates LAMA3 as a candidate biomarker and a potential contributor to adhesion-associated tumor programs and an immunologically constrained microenvironment in PDAC. These findings are association-based and require experimental validation (e.g., functional perturbation and orthogonal immune profiling) before causal or therapeutic claims can be made.
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is the most common subtype of esophageal cancer (ESCA). ESCC is one of the malignancies with high incidence and mortality rates. Studies have found that laminin subunit alpha 3 (LAMA3) functions as an oncogene in a variety of cancers. SPI1 is highly expressed in ESCC, but whether LAMA3 and SPI1 regulate the development of ESCC is still unclear. In this study, bioinformatics analysis tools were used to predict the expression of LAMA3 and SPI1 in ESCA. Subsequently, the levels of mRNA and protein were respectively detected by RT-qPCR and WB. Then, the cell biological behaviors were measured by CCK-8, colony formation, EdU, and tube formation assays. To investigate the in vivo effects of LAMA3 knockdown on ESCC, a xenograft tumor model was established, followed by IHC analysis. Additionally, glucose consumption, lactate production, ROS, and Fe2+ levels were determined by the corresponding kits. Besides, the interaction of LAMA3 and SPI1 was examined by ChIP and dual luciferase reporter assays. LAMA3 was highly expressed in ESCC and silencing it could curb the viability and proliferation of ESCC cells, tumor growth in vivo, tube formation of HUVECs, and induce oxidative stress and ferroptosis of ESCC cells. SPI1 was highly expressed in ESCC and could bind to the promoter of LAMA3 to jointly regulate the progression of ESCC. This study elucidated that SPI1 aggravated ESCC by binding to the promoter of LAMA3, thereby stimulating the growth and proliferation of ESCC cells and suppressing oxidative stress and ferroptosis.
Sepsis is a life-threatening condition characterized by a dysregulated host innate immune response to pathogen infection. Here, we identify a pathological role for bromodomain-containing 3 (BRD3) in driving septic shock by upregulating aconitate decarboxylase 1 (ACOD1) in monocytes and macrophages via a non-canonical pathway. Mechanistically, lipopolysaccharide triggers an interaction between BRD3 and tripartite motif containing 21 (TRIM21), which activates CREB binding lysine acetyltransferase (CREBBP) via its E3 ligase activity, facilitating CREBBP's binding to and acetylation of cyclic adenosine monophophate (cAMP)-response-element-binding protein 1 (CREB1). BRD3 then recognizes and phosphorylates acetylated CREB1 at the transcription-activating site, thereby upregulating ACOD1 transcription. In four murine models of infection, myeloid-specific Brd3 deletion (Brd3Mye-/-) or pharmacological intervention using small-molecule inhibitor OTX015 confers significant protection, reducing systemic inflammation and organ injury, similar to the effects observed in Acod1Mye-/- mice. In patients with sepsis, elevated BRD3 levels correlate with accelerated inflammation, increased disease severity, and a greater risk of in-hospital death. These findings establish BRD3 as a potential therapeutic target for managing infection-associated immune dysregulation.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Esophageal cancer (EC) is a major cause of cancer-related mortality. This study aims to investigate how hairy/enhancer-of-split is related to YRPW motif-like protein (HEYL), which regulates laminin subunit alpha 3 (LAMA3) and its impact on EC radiotherapy via the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) pathway.Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) related to radiotherapy sensitivity in EC cells were screened. Radioresistant cells were constructed using X-ray treatment at different doses. LAMA3 expression in radioresistant and parental cells was validated using RT-qPCR and Western blot (WB). γ-H2AX phosphorylation levels were identified to confirm the successful establishment of radioresistant cells. WB and immunofluorescence were performed to detect KI67 and EMT markers (E-cadherin, Slug, and Vimentin). Transwell, wound healing, cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8), and 5-Ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) assays were conducted to assess the response of radioresistant cells to LAMA3 expression alteration. Transcription factors of LAMA3 were predicted and verified. An in vivo model was established to confirm the role that HEYL and LAMA3 played in EMT and radioresistance.LAMA3 was shown to induce the EMT pathway and reduce radiotherapy efficacy in radiation-resistant OE19R and TE-1R cells. HEYL bound to the LAMA3 promoter, activating its expression. In vitro and in vivo rescue experiments confirmed that HEYL transcriptionally activated LAMA3 to confer resistance to radiotherapy via the EMT pathway in EC.In conclusion, HEYL activates the transcription of LAMA3, which in turn reduces EC radiosensitivity via the EMT pathway.© 2025. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Japan Esophageal Society.
Adamantinomatous craniopharyngioma (ACP) is a benign but surgically challenging intracranial tumor, and its high postoperative recurrence rate poses a threat to patient prognosis. In this study, whole exome sequencing (WES) was performed to comprehensively understand the genomic alterations in ACP.First, the gene mutation profile of ACP was acquired through an overview of the WES data. The somatic single nucleotide variants (SNV) mutational spectrum and signature of ACP were analyzed. Subsequently, somatic mutation data were used to identify the characteristic SNV of recurrent ACP to further explore the mechanism underlying recurrence, and the effect of these mutations on protein expression was verified through immunohistochemical and immunofluorescence analyses.We obtained the overall mutational landscape of ACP and identified four key mutated genes in recurrent samples: Procollagen-Lysine,2-Oxoglutarate 5-Dioxygenase 3 (PLOD3), Collagen Type XVII Alpha 1 chain (COL17A1), Fibronectin 1 (FN1), and Laminin Subunit Beta 3 (LAMB3). Among these, we verified that COL17A1, FN1, and LAMB3 expression was mainly located in the keratin nodule structures in tumors and was elevated in recurrent cases.PLOD3, COL17A1, FN1, and LAMB3 were identified as the key mutated genes in recurrent samples. These findings could provide a new perspective for understanding the tumorigenesis and recurrence mechanisms of ACP. A deeper exploration is needed to determine whether these key mutated genes promote ACP recurrence and drive the overproduction of keratin nodules in recurrent cases.© 2025. The Author(s).
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is a highly lethal malignancy and remains a major public health burden worldwide, particularly in China, where both incidence and mortality rates are among the highest globally. Recent studies suggest that laminin subunit alpha 3 (LAMA3), a component of the basement membrane, may promote tumor progression; however, its specific role in ESCC remains unclear. In this study, we analyzed public RNA-sequencing data from TCGA and TIMER to evaluate LAMA3 expression and its clinical relevance in ESCC. We also validated LAMA3 protein and mRNA expression in clinical samples and cell lines using immunohistochemistry and RT-qPCR. Using siRNA, we established LAMA3-knockdown ESCC cell models and assessed cell proliferation, colony formation, migration, and invasion in vitro. LAMA3 expression was 2.4-fold higher in ESCC tumor tissues than in adjacent normal tissues (p < 0.001). High LAMA3 levels were associated with worse overall survival and disease-free survival (p < 0.05). Knockdown of LAMA3 suppressed cell proliferation by 57% (p < 0.001), migration by 49% (p < 0.001), and invasion by 47% (p < 0.001).Pathway enrichment analysis indicated involvement of LAMA3 and its co-expressed genes in cell adhesion, extracellular matrix organization, and the PI3K-AKT pathway. In summary, our results demonstrate that LAMA3 is a major promoter of ESCC progression and a potential biomarker and therapeutic target.© 2025. The Author(s).
COL12A1, a collagen type XII alpha 1 chain, has an instrumental role in the extracellular matrix (ECM), but its effect on gastric cancer (GC) and clinical significance remain unclear. In this study, co-expressed differentially expressed genes (co-DEGs) were identified using Venn diagrams based on datasets from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) for gastric cancer RNA sequencing. Intersections between co-DEGs and TCGA prognosis-related genes were used to pinpoint genes that were differentially associated with prognosis. COL12A1 emerged as a key candidate gene. We analyzed COL12A1 expression in human GC tissues and explored its association with various clinicopathological parameters. Survival analysis, including overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS), was conducted using TCGA data, and a prognostic nomogram was constructed. The relative protein-encoding gene expression was assessed via immunohistochemistry (IHC) analysis of four downloaded datasets, along with PCR experiments. COL12A1-related DEGs were further identified using the LinkedOmics database, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses. Multiple databases were analysed for the relationship between COL12A1 and methylation. Immune cell infiltration was evaluated through CIBERSORT and TIMER databases, revealing a strong correlation between COL12A1 expression and immune cell presence in the tumor microenvironment. Single-cell expression analysis using TISCH provided further insights into the cellular context of COL12A1 expression. TISCH was used to analyse the single-cell expression of COL12A1. Finally, this work examined the correlation of COL12A1 with drug sensitivity via the RNAactDrug database. COL12A1 overexpression in gastric cancer was detected and foundto be closely related to clinicopathological features. GO/KEGG functional enrichment analysis revealed that COL12A1 was associated with pathways such as extracellular structure organization, extracellular matrix organization and the collagen-containing extracellular matrix. Analysis of several databases revealed that COL12A1 was associated with gene mutation and methylation. Additionally, as revealed by CIBERSORT profiling and TIMER database analysis, COL12A1 expression is related to immune cell infiltration. Correlation analysis via the RNAactDrug website revealed that COL12A1 is associated with drug sensitivity. In conclusion, COL12A1 is significantly overexpressed in gastric cancer and is associated with tumor progression, immune infiltration, and drug sensitivity. These findings suggest that COL12A1 may serve as a potential diagnostic and therapeutic biomarker for gastric cancer.© 2025. The Author(s).
Hyaluronan and proteoglycan link protein 1 (Hapln1) supports active cardiomyogenesis in zebrafish hearts, but its regulation in mammal cardiomyocytes is unclear. This study aimed to explore the potential regulation of Hapln1 in the dedifferentiation and proliferation of cardiomyocytes and its therapeutic value in myocardial infarction with human induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC)-derived cardiomyocytes (CMs) and an adult mouse model of myocardial infarction. HiPSC-CMs and adult mice with myocardial infarction were used as in vitro and in vivo models, respectively. Previous single-cell RNA sequencing data were retrieved for bioinformatic exploration. The results showed that recombinant human Hapln1 (rhHapln1) promotes the proliferation of hiPSC-CMs in a dose-dependent manner. As a physical binding protein of Hapln1, versican interacted with Nodal growth differentiation factor (NODAL) and growth differentiation factor 11 (GDF11). GDF11, but not NODAL, was expressed by hiPSC-CMs. GDF11 expression was unaffected by rhHapln1 treatment. However, this molecule was required for rhHapln1-mediated activation of the transforming growth factor (TGF)-β/Drosophila mothers against decapentaplegic protein (SMAD)2/3 signaling in hiPSC-CMs, which stimulates cell dedifferentiation and proliferation. Recombinant mouse Hapln1 (rmHapln1) could induce cardiac regeneration in the adult mouse model of myocardial infarction. In addition, rmHapln1 induced hiPSC-CM proliferation. In conclusion, Hapln1 can stimulate the dedifferentiation and proliferation of iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes by promoting versican-based GDF11 trapping and subsequent activation of the TGF-β/SMAD2/3 signaling pathway. Hapln1 might be an effective hiPSC-CM dedifferentiation and proliferation agent and a potential reagent for repairing damaged hearts.© 2023 The Authors.
Jersey-yak is a hybrid offspring of Jersey cattle and yak (Bos grunniens). Changing the feeding system of Jersey-yak can significantly improve its growth performance. In this study, tandem mass tag (TMT) proteomics technology was used to determine the differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) of the longissimus lumborum (LL) muscle of Jersey-yak fed different protein levels of diet. The results showed that compared with the traditional grazing feeding, the growth performance of Jersey-yaks was significantly improved by crude protein supplementation after grazing. A total of 3368 proteins were detected in these muscle samples, of which 3365 were quantified. A total of 434 DEPs were identified. Through analyses, it was found that some pathways related to muscle growth and development were significantly enriched, such as Rap1 signaling pathway, mTOR signaling pathway, and TGF-beta signaling pathway. A number of DEPs enriched in these pathways are related to muscle cell development, differentiation, and muscle development, including integrin subunit alpha 7 (ITGA7), myosin heavy chain 8 (MYH8), and collagen type XII alpha 1 chain (COL12A1). In conclusion, the results of this study provide insights into the proteomics of different feeding patterns of Jersey-yak, providing a stronger basis for further understanding the biological mechanism of hybrid varieties.
Collagen type XII alpha 1 chain (COL12A1) is associated with human cancer progression. Nevertheless, the expression pattern and the function of COL12A1 in intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (iCCA) remain unknown. The present study was performed to assess the role of COL12A1 in iCCA.A total of 1669 genes, differentially expressed between iCCA and nontumor liver tissue samples, were identified as potential tumor-specific biomarkers for iCCA patients. Of these, COL12A1 was significantly upregulated in clinical iCCA tissue samples and correlated with epithelial-mesenchymal transition gene set enrichment score and advanced tumor stage in clinical iCCA. COL12A1-high expression was associated with the poor prognoses of iCCA patients (n = 421) from four independent cohorts. Promoter hypermethylation-induced downregulation of miR-424-5p resulted in COL12A1 upregulation in clinical iCCA. Experimental knockout of COL12A1 inhibited the proliferation, invasiveness and growth of iCCA cells. MiR-424-5p had a therapeutic potential in iCCA via directly targeting COL12A1.Promoter hypermethylation-induced miR-424-5p downregulation contributes to COL12A1 upregulation in iCCA. COL12A1 is a promising druggable target for epigenetic therapy of iCCA.© 2023. The Author(s).
Human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) are generated through the reprogramming of somatic cells expressing a defined set of transcription factors. The advent of autologous iPSCs has enabled the generation of patient-specific iPSC lines and is expected to contribute to the exploration of cures and causes of diseases, drug screening, and tailor-made regenerative medicines. Efficient control of hiPSC derivation is beneficial for industrial applications. However, the mechanisms underlying somatic cell reprogramming remain unknown, while reprogramming efficiency remains extremely low, especially in human cells.We previously reported that chemical inhibition of the NOTCH signaling pathway and DOT1L promoted the generation of hiPSCs from keratinocytes, but the mechanisms and effect of this double inhibition on other types of cells remain to be investigated. Here, we found that the NOTCH/DOT1L inhibition markedly increased iPSC colony generation from human fibroblast cells via mRNA reprogramming, and mesenchymal to epithelial transition (MET)-related genes are significantly expressed in the early phase of the reprogramming. We successfully derived hiPSC lines using a single-cell sorting system under efficient reprogramming conditions.This user-friendly reprogramming approach paves the way for the development of hiPSC derivations in industrial applications of disease modeling and drug screening.© 2022 The Japanese Society for Regenerative Medicine. Production and hosting by Elsevier B.V.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is the most common form of pancreatic cancer with an abysmal prognosis rate over the last few decades. Early diagnosis and prevention could effectively combat this malignancy. Therefore, it is crucial to discover potential biomarkers to identify asymptomatic premalignant or early malignant tumors of PDAC. Gene expression analysis is a powerful technique to identify candidate biomarkers involved in disease progression. In the present study, five independent gene expression datasets, including 321 PDAC tissues and 208 adjacent non-cancerous tissue samples, were subjected to statistical and bioinformatics analysis. A total of 20 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in PDAC tissues compared to non-cancerous tissue samples. Gene ontology and pathway enrichment analysis showed that DEGs were mainly enriched in extracellular matrix (ECM), cell adhesion, ECM-receptor interaction, and focal adhesion signaling. The protein-protein interaction network was constructed, and the hub genes were evaluated. Collagen type XII alpha 1 chain (COL12A1), fibronectin 1 (FN1), integrin subunit alpha 2 (ITGA2), laminin subunit beta 3 (LAMB3), laminin subunit gamma 2 (LAMC2), thrombospondin 2 (THBS2), and versican (VCAN) were identified as hub genes. The correlation analysis revealed that identified hub genes were significantly interconnected. Wherein COL12A1, FN1, ITGA2, LAMB3, LAMC2, and THBS2 were significantly associated with PDAC pathological stages. The Kaplan-Meier survival plots revealed that ITGA2, LAMB3, and LAMC2 expression were inversely correlated with a prolonged patient survival period. Furthermore, the Human Protein Atlas database was used to validate the expression and cellular origins of hub genes encoded proteins. The protein expression of hub genes was higher in pancreatic cancer tissue than in normal pancreatic tissue samples, wherein ITGA2, LAMB3, and LAMC2 were exclusively expressed in pancreatic cancer cells. Pancreatic cancer cell-specific expression of these three proteins may play pleiotropic roles in cancer progression. Our results collectively suggest that ITGA2, LAMB3, and LAMC2 could provide deep insights into pancreatic carcinogenesis molecular mechanisms and provide attractive therapeutic targets.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301620
Activin A receptor type 1C (ALK7) and its ligand nodal growth differentiation factor (NODAL) serve numerous roles in cancer cells, including regulating cancer invasion, migration and apoptosis. NODAL promotes breast cancer cell apoptosis by activating ALK7; however, ALK7 and NODAL expression in endometrial cancer (EC), as well as their effects and underlying mechanisms in EC cells, are not completely understood. The present study aimed to characterize the expression of NODAL and ALK7 in EC, as well as the underlying mechanisms. The expression levels of ALK7 and NODAL were detected via reverse transcription-quantitative PCR and western blotting. Cell transfection was performed to overexpress NODAL or interfere ALK7. Cell proliferation, invasion and migration were detected via Cell Counting Kit-8, Transwell and wound healing assays, respectively. Flow cytometry was performed to detect cell apoptosis and western blotting was conducted to detect the expression levels of apoptosis-related proteins. NODAL and ALK7 expression levels were significantly decreased in EC cell lines compared with normal endometrial cells. NODAL overexpression inhibited EC cell proliferation, invasion and migration, and promoted EC cell apoptosis compared with the overexpression-negative control (Ov-NC) group. Moreover, NODAL overexpression significantly increased ALK7 expression levels in EC cells compared with the Ov-NC group. ALK7 reversed NODAL overexpression-mediated inhibition of EC cell proliferation, invasion and migration, and promotion of EC cell apoptosis. The present study indicated that NODAL inhibited EC cell proliferation, invasion and migration, and promoted EC cell apoptosis by activating ALK7.Copyright: © Hong et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42499341 is a review article
Objective: To investigate the molecular mechanism of long intergenic non-protein coding RNA, regulator of reprogramming (Linc-ROR) in regulating the stemness of cancer stem cells in hypoxic microenvironment. Methods: A2780 cells were induced into ovarian cancer stem-like cells (OCS-LC) by sphere formation assay and identified by differentiation assay and flow cytometry analysis. Knockdown or overexpression of Linc-ROR, microRNA (miR)-181c-5p, and simultaneous knockdown or simultaneous overexpression of Linc-ROR and miR-181c-5p were constructed in OCS-LC cell lines. The mRNA levels were detected by quantitative reverse transcription PCR (RT-qPCR). Western blot was used to detect the stemness related octamer-binding transcription factor 4 (Oct-4) and Nanog homeobox transcription factor (Nanog). The protein expression levels of E-cadherin, Vimentin related to epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and hypoxia inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) were also detected. Cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8), colony formation assay and transwell chamber assay were used to detect the effects of different factors on cell proliferation, invasion and other malignant biological behaviors. A subcutaneous xenograft model was constructed to explore the effect of Linc-ROR on the tumorigenicity of OCS-LC in vivo. Results: A2780 cells were successfully induced into OCS-LC. Flow cytometry analysis showed that the positive expression rate of CD133 on the surface of OCS-LC was significantly higher than that of A2780 cells (P<0.05). The results of dual luciferase reporter assay showed that there was a targeted binding site between Linc-ROR and miR-181c-5p. Under hypoxic condition, overexpression of Linc-ROR or knockdown of miR-181c-5p increased OCS-LC spheroid formation rate, shortened spheroid formation cycle, longer maximum spheroid diameter, and increased relative expression of Oct-4, Nanog, HIF-1α and Vimentin proteins compared with control group; the relative expression of E-cadherin protein was decreased, and the proliferation, invasion and metastasis ability of OCS-LC were enhanced (all P<0.05). However, knockdown of Linc-ROR or overexpression of miR-181c-5p showed opposite experimental results (all P<0.05). Simultaneous knocking down of Linc-ROR and miR-181c-5p or simultaneous overexpressing of Linc-ROR and miR-181c-5p could reverse the above biological effects of knocking down or overexpressing Linc-ROR. The results of animal experiments showed that overexpression of Linc-ROR enhanced the tumorigenic ability of OCS-LC in vivo. At the same time, the expression levels of Nanog, Oct-4, HIF-1α and Vimentin were increased, and the expression level of E-cadherin was decreased in transplanted tumor tissues (all P<0.05). Knockdown of Linc-ROR showed the opposite results (all P<0.05). Conclusion: Under hypoxia, Linc-ROR negatively regulates the expression of miR-181c-5p and upregulates the expression of HIF-1α to promote the stemness of OCS-LC and activate EMT, which may be one of the important mechanisms of Linc-ROR promoting the proliferation, invasion and metastasis of tumor cells.
Osteosarcoma is a primary malignant bone tumor with high incidence in adolescents. Its characteristics of high recurrence, high metastasis, and cancer stem cell (CSC)-mediated treatment resistance are major obstacles to improving patient prognosis. This study aimed to systematically investigate the role and molecular mechanism of FK506-binding protein 10 (FKBP10) in regulating osteosarcoma stemness and malignant progression. Clinical sample analysis showed that High expression of FKBP10 is negatively correlated with prognosis in osteosarcoma, and positively correlated with the expression of stemness markers SOX2 (SRY-box transcription factor 2) and Nanog (Homeobox transcription factor Nanog). Cellular experiments confirmed that FKBP10 dose-dependently upregulated the transcriptional and protein levels of stemness markers such as CD44 (CD44 molecule), CD105 (Endoglin), SOX2, and Nanog, expanded the populations of CD105+ and CD44+ stem cells, and enhanced the self-renewal (tumor sphere formation), clonogenic proliferation (colony formation), and invasion/migration abilities of osteosarcoma cells. Conversely, FKBP10 knockdown significantly inhibited these stemness characteristics and malignant phenotypes without affecting the proliferative activity of general tumor cells. Animal experiments demonstrated that FKBP10 knockdown remarkably reduced the volume of xenograft tumors in nude mice, decreased the frequency of CD105+ CSCs, and prolonged the survival time of tumor-bearing mice. At the molecular level, immunofluorescence staining and co-immunoprecipitation experiments confirmed that FKBP10 and heat shock protein 10 (HSP10) exhibited subcellular co-localization and direct interaction in osteosarcoma cells, with no mutual regulation of protein expression between FKBP10 and HSP10. HSP10 knockdown mimicked the effect of FKBP10 knockdown to inhibit osteosarcoma stemness. RNA sequencing and functional validation revealed that FKBP10 and HSP10 jointly regulated the expression of stemness markers and malignant phenotypes by activating the TGF-β/Smad pathway, and the regulatory effect of FKBP10 was completely dependent on this pathway. In addition, although HSP10 was involved in stemness regulation, it had no significant association with patient prognosis. This study is the first to clarify the core role of the "FKBP10-HSP10-TGF-β (Transforming growth factor-beta)/Smad (Sma- and Mad-related protein)" regulatory axis in maintaining osteosarcoma stemness, confirming that FKBP10 is a potential biomarker for osteosarcoma prognosis and a key target for targeted therapy. It provides a new theoretical basis and experimental foundation for the development of precision treatment strategies targeting CSCs in osteosarcoma.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) derived from the inner cell mass of embryos possess unlimited self-renewal and pluripotency, offering a powerful system to study early development and enable genetic and biotechnological innovation. Although several livestock ESC lines have been reported in recent years, defining culture conditions that support stable, long-term self-renewal and controlled transitions across pluripotent states remains challenging. Here, we report the de novo derivation of sheep (ovine) ESCs (oESCs) from in vivo blastocysts using a chemically defined culture system. The derived cells exhibit morphological and molecular features of primed pluripotency and can be propagated under both feeder-dependent and feeder-free conditions without loss of identity or karyotypic stability. Building on this foundation, we developed enhancer-driven reporter lines that faithfully reflect octamer-binding transcription factor 4 (OCT4) and SRY-box transcription factor 2 (SOX2) transcriptional activity, enabling dynamic visualization of pluripotency and differentiation in live cultures. These reporter systems revealed the responsiveness of oESCs to signaling modulation and provided a functional readout of pluripotency state transitions. When cultured in defined media previously shown to stabilize naïve pluripotency in human ESCs, oESCs adopted a dome-shaped colony morphology, maintained OCT4, SOX2, and Nanog homeobox (NANOG) expression, retained differentiation potential, and exhibited a transcriptomic profile consistent with resetting to an intermediate pluripotent state with naïve-like morphological features. In summary, these findings establish stable ovine ESC lines and demonstrate their plasticity across the pluripotency spectrum, providing a valuable platform for investigating ruminant stem cell biology and advancing livestock biotechnology.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Excessive autophagy of interstitial cells of Cajal (ICCs) in the esophagus and altered expression of circadian clock genes in the upper gastrointestinal tract are key pathological mechanisms in reflux esophagitis, a common form of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). The circadian rhythm core regulators circadian locomotor output cycles kaput (CLOCK) and aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator-like protein 1 (BMAL1) participate in multiple diseases through autophagy modulation, but their roles in GERD remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the roles of CLOCK and BMAL1 in ICCs autophagy within a GERD model.Primary esophageal ICCs were isolated and cultured. An in vitro GERD autophagy model was established by inducing ICCs autophagy with 25 μM deoxycholic acid. The cells were subsequently treated with CLOCK siRNA, BMAL1 siRNA, or combined CLOCK + BMAL1 siRNA. Cellular samples were collected, and ultrastructure and autophagy of ICCs were examined using transmission electron microscopy. The expression levels of autophagy-related proteins (LC3-II/I, Beclin-1) and CLOCK, BMAL1, Period Circadian Regulator 2 (PER2), Cryptochrome 2 (CRY2) were analyzed by Western blot and immunofluorescence assays. The corresponding mRNA levels were measured by Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR).Treatment with 25 μM deoxycholic acid significantly induced autophagy in ICCs and increased the expression levels of CLOCK, BMAL1, PER2, and CRY2. Silencing CLOCK or BMAL1 reduced the expression levels of PER2 and CRY2, decreased ICCs autophagy, and restored ICCs ultrastructure, with combined silencing producing a more pronounced effect.CLOCK and BMAL1 regulate excessive autophagy of ICCs in GERD by mediating the circadian-autophagy axis. Targeted silencing of both molecules effectively improves the function of ICCs, providing a potential therapeutic strategy for GERD.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Immune system is regulated by circadian rhythms, which promote inflammation and facilitate pathogen elimination. Antimicrobial peptides secreted by milk somatic cells and mammary gland epithelial cells play a crucial role in protecting the mammary gland from pathogenic invasion and mastitis. In this study, we aimed to investigate the circadian rhythms of clock gene and antimicrobial peptide gene expression in goat milk somatic cells, as well as the circadian variation in antimicrobial peptide concentrations in milk.Milk and blood samples were collected from eight goats every 4 h for three days, with light exposure from 6:30 to 19:00. Notably, plasma prolactin level, milk Na+ concentration, and somatic cell count exhibited circadian rhythms (cosinor: P < 0.05; time: P < 0.01). Expression levels of some clock genes (Clock, cryptochrome circadian regulator 2, period circadian regulator 2, and nuclear receptor subfamily 1 group D member 1) exhibited circadian rhythms (cosinor: P < 0.05), whereas those of other clock genes, such as basic helix-loop-helix ARNT-like 1, period circadian regulator 1, cryptochrome circadian regulator 1, and retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor-α, did not exhibit circadian rhythms. Among the milk antimicrobial peptides, gene expression level of cathelicidin-7 (cosinor and time: P < 0.05), but not that of lactoferrin (cosinor: P = 0.079), exhibited a circadian rhythm in somatic cells. Additionally, goat β-defensin-1, cathelicidin-7, and lactoferrin levels exhibited circadian rhythms in milk (cosinor and time: P < 0.01).Overall, our results suggest that leukocyte migration and antimicrobial peptide production exhibit circadian rhythms in the mammary glands. These findings provide valuable insights to ensure safe milking conditions by milking during periods of high immune activity in the mammary glands.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41782786 is a review article
The liver is a common primary cancer site in humans. Actin-related protein 6 (ACTR6) plays a key role in liver cancer. The aim of this study was to further explore the regulatory molecular mechanism of ACTR6 in liver cancer.In this study, hepatoma cell HuH-7 was evaluated by 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine staining, colony formation, Transwell assay, and wound healing assay. The possible mechanism of the action of ACTR6 on hepatocellular carcinoma cells was evaluated by analyzing sphere formation, the key factors of the Hedgehog (Hh) signaling pathway, and molecules related to cell stemness. Then, xenografted mouse tumor models were used to demonstrate the promotion effect of ACTR6 on liver cancer in vivo.ACTR6 was highly expressed in HuH-7h and HepG2 cells (P < 0.001). Silencing ACTR6 inhibited the migration, invasion capacity, and activity of HuH-7 (P < 0.01). ACTR6 activated the Hh signaling pathway by upregulating the expression of Sonic Hedgehog, patched 1, smoothened, and glioma-associated transcription factor 1. In addition, ACTR6 increased the molecular level of cell stemness by increasing the level of cellular myelocytomatosis oncogene, octamer-binding transcription factor 4, Nanog homeobox, and SRY-box transcription factor 2. Vismodegib reversed the promoting effect of ACTR6 on the Hh signaling pathway and stem-related proteins in cells.ACTR6 regulates the molecular basis of stemness maintenance of liver cancer cells through the Hh signaling pathway and promotes the occurrence of liver cancer. This study provides possible targets for the clinical treatment of liver cancer.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Scientific Scholar.
The gut microbiota is critical for host defense against influenza. Polysaccharides are known for their microbiota-modulating and immunomodulatory activities; however, the anti-influenza efficacy of homogeneous Abrus cantoniensis polysaccharides (ACP) remains unexplored.The present study seeks to clarify the protective role of ACP in influenza and explore its underlying molecular mechanisms.Initially, crude polysaccharides were extracted via ethanol precipitation and subsequently purified by gel chromatography. Systematic structural characterization of ACP was then performed using carbohydrate chemistry techniques, including scanning electron microscopy (SEM), Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), ultraviolet (UV) spectroscopy, and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). The therapeutic efficacy of ACP was assessed by monitoring various indicators such as body weight, survival rate, viral load, and pulmonary pathological changes in mouse models. Furthermore, to elucidate the biological mechanism underlying ACP's anti-influenza activity via regulation of pulmonary interferon-beta (IFN-β) immune networks by intestinal acetate-producing microbiota, multi-omics analyses integrating metagenomics, metabolomics, gene knockout, immunofluorescence, and Western blot were conducted. Finally, the potential anti-influenza effects of ACP via the gut-lung axis were evaluated based on in vivo and in vitro detection of protein expression of IFN-β, free fatty acid receptor 2 (FFAR2), and mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein (MAVS), as well as antiviral interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs).In this study, we purified a novel polysaccharide, ACP-A1, with a backbone of→4)-α-D-Glcp-(1→,→4)-β-D-Galp-(1→, and →4,6)-α-D-Glcp-(1→ linkages and α-D-Glcp-(1→ branches at O-6. In H1N1-infected mice, oral ACP-A1 alleviated weight loss, increased survival, and reduced lung inflammation and viral load. Metagenomic and targeted metabolomic analyses showed that ACP-A1 enriched Limosilactobacillus reuteri and elevated acetate levels. Fecal microbiota transplantation, FFAR2 inhibition, and MAVS knockout experiments demonstrated that ACP-A1 enhances the FFAR2/MAVS/IFN-β antiviral pathway via microbial-derived acetate.Collectively, our findings elucidate that ACP mitigates influenza virus-induced lung dysfunction by promoting the proliferation of acetate-producing gut microbiota, particularly Limosilactobacillus reuteri, and activating the FFAR2/MAVS/IFN-β antiviral axis in pulmonary immune cells. These findings establish ACP-A1 as a natural polysaccharide regulating IFN-β homeostasis, highlighting its potential for influenza prevention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Individual G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are present on many cell types and regulate multiple physiological responses, making it necessary to design ligands that are selective for the targeted GPCR in a tissue-selective manner. Here, we found ligand-selective effects of the GPCR free fatty acid receptor 2 (FFAR2) mediated through differential activation of Gq and Gi family proteins in various tissues. These effects were elucidated with ago-allosteric regulators of FFAR2 that bind to overlapping sites (compound 187 and AZ1729) and to a distinct site (4-CMTB) in tissues from mice expressing a hemagglutinin-tagged human FFAR2 DREADD (designer receptor exclusively activated by designer drugs). The Gq-activating ligand compound 187 stimulated the release of the gut hormones GLP-1 and PYY from colonic crypts and the secretion of insulin from pancreatic islets, effects that were prevented by the Gi-biased ligand AZ1729. Both compound 187 and AZ1729 promoted Gi-mediated neutrophil migration in bone marrow and antilipolytic effects in adipose tissue synergistically with an orthosteric DREADD agonist, whereas 4-CMTB was ineffective in both of these tissues. In contrast, 4-CMTB, alone or with the orthosteric agonist, produced Gq signaling-dependent effects in colonic crypts and pancreatic islets. These insights into the functional selectivity of allosteric ligands acting on the same GPCR may enable the development of physiologically specific therapeutics.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) leads to a microenvironment destruction characterized by inflammation, lipid metabolism dysregulation, and impaired tissue regeneration, collectively impeding functional recovery. Recent studies have shown that the gut-brain axis is an important pathway for regulating the microenvironment after SCI. Quercetin (QUE) is a natural flavonoid with powerful anti-inflammatory and metabolic regulation properties, showing promising prospects in promoting SCI repair. This study aimed to investigate the role of QUE in regulating the lipid-rich microenvironment of injured spinal cord through the gut-brain axis. Our results showed that QUE could enhance the diversity of gut microbiota, thereby increasing butyrate production, which can activate the free fatty acid receptor 2 (FFAR2) in spinal cord tissue. Activating FFAR2 can trigger the AMPK/TFEB signal cascade, promote lipid metabolism, and alleviate inflammation. These actions collectively alleviate the characteristic lipid accumulation and inflammatory response in the injured spinal cord lipid-rich microenvironment and reshape a regenerative microenvironment favorable for SCI functional recovery. This study provides new insights into the gut-brain axis repair mechanism in SCI and highlights the therapeutic potential of QUE as a metabolic regulator in SCI.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Reduction in intestinal type 3 innate lymphoid cells (ILC3) frequency is associated with type 1 diabetes (T1D) pathogenesis in humans and in animal models. The current study showed that, after T1D induction by multiple-low-dose streptozotocin in male C57BL/6 mice, ILC3 were reduced in both blood and pancreas and produced less IL-22 and IL-2, and a decreased proportion expressed the gut-homing α4β7 integrin in the pancreas. Additionally, T1D induction in ILC3-impaired mice produced exacerbated hyperglycemia. To activate ILC3, Compound 1 (Cpd1), a synthetic selective free fatty acid receptor 2 (FFAR2) agonist, was administered orally in a prophylactic regimen, at early therapeutic stages, or during established disease, resulting in significant amelioration of T1D symptoms. Cpd1 upregulated ILC3 and activated regulatory T cells (Treg) within the small intestine lamina propria and the pancreas, enhanced intestinal barrier integrity, and increased microbial diversity. Cpd1 also reduced α4β7-expressing inflammatory cells in the pancreas while promoting the accumulation of gut-imprinted ILC3. IL-22 was important for this anti-inflammatory response, as treatment efficacy was inhibited when mice were additionally given neutralizing anti-IL-22 antibodies. Of note, NOD mice receiving Cpd1 exhibited postponed disease initiation, but the incidence of disease was similar to that of the control group. Overall, activation of intestinal ILC3 and Treg via FFAR2 engagement, and translation of these anti-inflammatory effects to the pancreas, provided significant benefit in a mouse T1D model.Modulating the adaptive immune response alone is insufficient for effective type 1 diabetes treatment. This study investigates targeting intestinal type 3 innate lymphoid cells as a novel therapeutic approach for type 1 diabetes. A synthetic free fatty acid receptor 2 agonist, Compound 1, activates intestinal IL-2+ and IL-22+ type 3 innate lymphoid cells and thereby reduces pancreatic inflammation, stabilizes intestinal barrier, and improves clinical outcomes in a type 1 diabetes mouse model. Compound 1 demonstrates therapeutic potential and may serve as a candidate for future clinical trials in type 1 diabetes.© 2026 by the American Diabetes Association.
Allergic asthma is characterized by immune dysregulation and airway inflammation, and increasing evidence implicates gut microbiota-derived metabolites in its pathogenesis. However, the microbial and metabolic mediators underlying the anti-asthmatic effects of natural products remain insufficiently defined. This study investigated the protective effects of a novel triterpenoid (Tri) isolated from Alisma orientale against ovalbumin-induced allergic asthma and explored the underlying mechanisms.The therapeutic effects of Tri were evaluated in ovalbumin-induced allergic asthma mice by assessing airway hyperresponsiveness, histopathological changes, and inflammatory mediators. Gut microbiota depletion, fecal microbiota transplantation, 16S rDNA sequencing, targeted short-chain fatty acid analysis, and lung transcriptomic profiling were performed to characterize microbiota-associated changes related to Tri treatment. In addition, Lactobacillus murinus and acetate intervention experiments were conducted in vivo. A co-culture system of 16HBE cells and bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (BMDCs), together with free fatty acid receptor 2 (FFAR2) silencing or overexpression, was used to further assess the involvement of FFAR2 in the immunoregulatory actions associated with Tri.Tri markedly attenuated airway hyperresponsiveness, inflammatory cell infiltration, collagen deposition, and the production of asthma-related inflammatory mediators in asthmatic mice. These protective effects were attenuated after gut microbiota depletion and were partially transferred by fecal microbiota transplantation. Tri restored gut microbial homeostasis, increased the abundance of Lactobacillus murinus, and elevated short-chain fatty acids, particularly acetate. Supplementation with Lactobacillus murinus or acetate reproduced the anti-asthmatic effects of Tri and was associated with upregulation of FFAR2 and restoration of the Th17/Treg balance. In the co-culture system, FFAR2 silencing or overexpression further supported the involvement of FFAR2 in the immunoregulatory effects of Tri and acetate.Tri alleviates OVA-induced allergic asthma and is associated with microbiota-derived acetate, enhanced FFAR2-related signaling, and restoration of Th17/Treg balance. These findings suggest that microbiota-derived acetate and FFAR2-related immune regulation may contribute to the anti-asthmatic effects of Tri, although further loss-of-function studies are required to establish direct causality.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Obesity and related metabolic disorders are often characterized by chronic adipose tissue inflammation, driving systemic insulin resistance and general metabolic dysfunction. Free Fatty Acid Receptor 2 (FFA2) has emerged as a potential modulator of adipocyte function, inflammation, and metabolism. To investigate the role of FFA2 expressed in the adipose tissue, we generated adipose-specific FFA2 knockout mice (Adipoq-F2-KO) and assessed metabolic outcomes under standard laboratory chow and high-fat, high-sugar Western diet conditions, with and without dietary fiber supplementation. We found that adipose-specific FFA2 deletion had minimal metabolic consequences under standard dietary conditions but significantly reduced body weight and adiposity when mice were fed a fiber (fructooligosaccharide)-supplemented Western diet. Subsequent fecal analyses and transcriptomic profiling indicated impaired intestinal lipid absorption as the primary driver of reduced adiposity, suggesting disrupted adipose-intestinal communication. Unexpectedly, the lighter Adipoq-F2-KO mice also exhibited heightened adipose inflammation, characterized by increased macrophage infiltration and pro-inflammatory cytokine expression. Furthermore, in vitro loss-of-function experiments in adipocytes revealed that FFA2 knockdown impaired adipocyte maturation, lipid storage, and anti-inflammatory signaling. Additional studies using intestinal epithelial cells exposed to adipocyte-conditioned media implicated adipose-derived signals in driving intestinal dysfunction. Collectively, our findings highlight adipose-specific FFA2 as critical in regulating adipose tissue inflammation, lipid metabolism, and inter-organ communication.© 2026 The Author(s). Physiological Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Physiological Society and the American Physiological Society.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is a progressive and fatal disorder characterized by abnormal activation of alveolar fibroblasts. However, the metabolic reprogramming of alveolar fibroblasts during lung injury remains unclear. Here we show that uptake of branched-chain amino acids is increased, whereas their catabolism is significantly impaired in fibrotic lung fibroblasts and mouse lung tissues. Branched-chain amino acids promote lung fibroblast activation and bleomycin-induced lung fibrosis. Genetic inactivation of branched-chain amino acid transaminase 2 exacerbates fibrosis, whereas inhibition of the corresponding transporter SLC7A5 or enhancement of catabolism attenuates pulmonary fibrosis in male mice. Mechanistically, ATF4 and PPARγ regulate the expression of SLC7A5 and BCAA catabolic genes, respectively. We identify KDM4A as a key mediator of the epigenetic regulation of fibrotic genes. Notably, dysregulated BCAA metabolism is associated with disease severity in patients, suggesting that targeting BCAA metabolism may serve as a promising therapeutic strategy for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Branched-chain amino acid transaminase 2 (BCAT2) is a promising therapeutic target for metabolic diseases and cancers such as pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. In this study, we report the discovery of novel and potent inhibitors against this enzyme. Through a structure-based strategy integrating scaffold hopping, core simplification, and hydrophobic cavity filling, three series of compounds (A, B, and C) were designed and synthesized. Several compounds in series C exhibited nanomolar inhibitory potency (C10, IC50 = 44 nM; C11, IC50 = 54 nM). Key structure-activity relationships were elucidated, highlighting the critical roles of the aromatic core, the polar substituent at the 2-position, and occupation of the upper hydrophobic pocket in enhanced activity. Molecular docking and dynamics simulations predict that the compounds bind stably to the BCAT2 active site, engaging in persistent π-π stacking and hydrogen-bonding networks with key residues such as Phe-30 and Tyr-173. This work provides valuable lead compounds and structural insights into the development of highly potent and selective BCAT2 inhibitors.This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42548510 is a review article
Piper nigrum is a medicinal and edible spice that is popular worldwide due to its unique spicy flavor, and is considered as a folk medicine for treating digestive system diseases. Piperine (PIP) is a bioactive alkaloid derived from P. nigrum, with remarkable hepatoprotective efficacy. Hepatic fibrosis represents a critical phase in the advancement of distinct chronic liver conditions towards cirrhosis, and currently lacks effective therapeutic drugs. The study aims to investigate the hepatoprotective functions of PIP and the underlying mechanism of PIP in combating hepatic fibrosis.C57BL/6J mice with hepatic fibrosis were induced by thioacetamide (TAA) and subsequently subjected to treatment with PIP or curcumin. Immortalized rat hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) were stimulated with transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β), followed by culture with PIP or niclosamide [signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) inhibitor], respectively. Human hepatic stellate cell line LX-2 were activated by TGF-β and transfected with specific small interfering RNA (siRNA) to silence STAT3 gene, and afterwards cultured with PIP. The mouse AML-12 cells and macrophage-like murine cells Raw 264.7 were stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), followed by culture with PIP.In vivo, PIP reduced serum transaminase levels, collagen deposition, and decreased the excessive accumulation of extracellular matrix (ECM), comprising α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), collagen type I (Collagen I), and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1 (TIMP-1)/matrix metalloproteinase 13 (MMP13) ratio expressions. PIP inhibited inflammatory cytokines release and myeloperoxidase (MPO) expression, including interleukin-1 receptor type 1 (IL-1R1), cysteine-aspartic acid protease-1 (Caspase-1), and IL-6. PIP specifically inhibited STAT3 phosphorylation at Ser727, downregulated phosphorylated janus kinase 2 (p-JAK2), and upregulated suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3) and protein inhibitor of activated STAT 1/3 (PIAS1/3) expressions. In vitro, PIP inhibited ECM deposition and inflammatory cytokines release in activated HSCs. PIP selectively suppressed p-STAT3 at Ser727 without affecting Tyr705, and modulated p-JAK2, SOCS3, and PIAS1/3 expressions in activated HSCs, function as a STAT3 inhibitor. PIP inhibited LPS‑induced M1 polarization of RAW 264.7 macrophages. PIP decreased Cleaved‑Caspase 3 expression and apoptotic cells in LPS‑induced AML‑12 hepatocytes. STAT3 deficiency amplified regulation of PIP on α-SMA and p-JAK2, as well as its upregulation on SOCS3 and PIAS1/3 in activated LX-2 cells.PIP improved hepatic fibrosis via inhibiting ECM excessive deposition and inflammatory secretion. Switching STAT3 phosphorylation at Ser727 might be the underlying targets for PIP against hepatic fibrosis, which provide an effective candidate and therapeutical strategy for hepatic fibrosis.© 2026 Tianjin Press of Chinese Herbal Medicines. Published by ELSEVIER B.V.
Autoimmune uveitis is a vision-threatening inflammatory disorder driven by dysregulated T helper 17 (Th17) responses, yet therapeutic strategies targeting Th17 differentiation are lacking. Through transcriptomic screening of an experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU) model and validation in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada patients, we identified MAP1S (microtubule-associated protein 1S) as a pivotal, conserved regulator. Here, we demonstrate that MAP1S constrains pathogenic Th17 responses and alleviates EAU through a dual mechanism coordinating transcriptional control and autophagic degradation. Mechanistically, MAP1S binds to EGR2 (early growth response 2) and restrains its acetylation at Lys368, thereby suppressing Lcn2 (lipocalin 2) transcription. Besides, MAP1S facilitates autophagosome biogenesis and lysosomal trafficking, promoting the autophagic clearance of LCN2 protein. Notably, MAP1S deficiency enhances EGR2 acetylation, increases Lcn2 transcription, disrupts autophagosome trafficking, impairs LCN2 degradation, and promotes LCN2 accumulation, collectively driving Th17 polarization and exacerbating EAU pathology. Adoptive transfer of cervical lymph node cells from map1s knockout mice reproduced severe disease in wild-type recipients. Moreover, pharmacological activation of MAP1S with spermidine suppressed Th17 responses and alleviated disease severity. Our findings establish MAP1S as a critical node integrating acetylation signaling of EGR2 and autophagic flux to govern LCN2 homeostasis and Th17 pathogenicity, revealing a promising therapeutic target for autoimmune uveitis and potentially other Th17-mediated diseases.Abbreviations: AAV: adeno-associated virus; ACOD1: aconitate decarboxylase 1; AU: autoimmune uveitis; BCL2: B cell leukemia/lymphoma 2; CDLNs: cervical draining lymph nodes; CFA: complete Freund's adjuvant; ChIP: chromatin immunoprecipitation; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; EAU: experimental autoimmune uveitis; EGR2: early growth response 2; GDF15: growth differentiation factor 15; HDAC4: histone deacetylase 4; HDAC6: histone deacetylase 6; IL17: interleukin 17; IL17f: interleukin 17f; IL22: interleukin 22; K: lysine; KAT2A/GCN5: K(lysine) acetyltransferase 2A; KO: knockout; LCN2: lipocalin 2; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; MAP1S: microtubule-associated protein 1S; MS: mass spectrometry; PBMC: peripheral blood mononuclear cell; PCR: polymerase chain rection; PPI: protein-protein interaction; PTX: pertussis toxin; qPCR: quantitative PCR; RT-qPCR: reverse transcription and quantitative real-time RCR; SAA3: serum amyloid A3; SPD: spermidine; Th1 cells: T helper 1 cells; Th17 cells: T helper 17 cells; TF: transcriptional factor; Tregcells: regulatory T cells; VKH disease: Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada disease; WT: wild-type.
Despite the promise of immune checkpoint blockade (ICB), only a minority of non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients achieve long-term benefits. In this study, we present a single-cell spatial transcriptomic landscape of NSCLC, revealing a previously uncharacterized link between elevated glutathione peroxidase 8 (Gpx8) and resistance to PD-1 blockade. Through CyTOF, CODEX, and ATAC-sequencing analyses, we demonstrate that Gpx8 knockout in both immunocompetent and humanized mouse models suppress tumor growth. This suppression is accompanied by increased infiltration of antitumor T lymphocytes, reduced enrichment of pro-tumorigenic myeloid cells, and the formation of tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS). Mechanistically, Gpx8 inhibits the activity of the RNA-binding protein Celf1(CUGBP Elav-like family member 1) through disulfide bonding between cysteine 79 of Gpx8 and cysteine 177 of Celf1. This interaction stabilizes CCAAT-enhancer-binding protein β (C/EBPβ) mRNA, promotes CSF1 secretion, and drives the recruitment of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) into the tumor microenvironment. Notably, resistance to anti-PD-1 treatment in Gpx8-expressing NSCLCs can be overcome through enforced expression of Celf1, CSF1R blockade, or a mimic peptide designed to disrupt the Gpx8-Celf1 interaction. Furthermore, anti-PD-1 or rCSF1 treatment activates C/EBPβ and upregulates Gpx8 transcription, establishing a Gpx8-C/EBPβ-CSF1 feedback loop that contributes to immune evasion. These findings provide new insights into the role of Gpx8 in modulating the tumor microenvironment and offer a potential framework for enhancing the sensitivity of NSCLC to PD-1 blockade therapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42422112 is a review article
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is associated with astrocytic pyroptosis, but the mechanisms involved remain unclear. This study investigates how O-GlcNAc modification of CCAAT enhancer binding protein beta (CEBPB) influences its ability to regulate pyroptosis in astrocytes. In our study, primary astrocytes were exposed to LPS plus ATP to activate NLRP3 inflammasomes. Cell viability was assessed by CCK8 assay. IL-18 and IL-1β release was measured using ELISA. sWGA pull-down and Co-IP assays were performed to assess O-GlcNAc modification level of CEBPB. ChIP assay was used for promoter binding analysis, and ubiquitination detection was performed using Co-IP. Our results showed that LPS+ATP treatment significantly increased IKKβ expression in astrocytes, and IKKβ knockdown markedly reduced NLRP3 inflammasome activity and pyroptosis. Mechanistically, CEBPB transcriptionally activated IKKβ expression in astrocytes. Functionally, CEBPB knockdown ameliorated LPS+ATP-induced NLRP3 inflammasome activation and pyroptosis in astrocytes, which was abolished by IKKβ overexpression. In addition, O-GlcNAc modification at Thr235 enhanced CEBPB protein stability in astrocytes, driving NLRP3 inflammasome activation and pyroptosis. Collectively, these findings demonstrated that O-GlcNAc-modified CEBPB promoted pyroptosis in astrocytes during MDD progression by activating NLRP3 inflammasome through transcriptionally activating IKKβ.
Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) targeting the programmed cell death 1 (PD-1)/programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) axis has shown promise in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), but clinical responses are often limited in durability. Identifying novel drivers of immune evasion is crucial for improving therapeutic strategies.We employed a multi-omics integrative framework to identify HCC-specific immune biomarkers. Functional roles were validated using in vitro and in vivo models, including UDP-glucuronate decarboxylase 1 (UXS1) knockout/overexpression, co-culture assays, and various mouse models. Molecular mechanisms were dissected using immunoprecipitation coupled with mass spectrometry, ubiquitination assays, chromatin immunoprecipitation, luciferase reporter assays, and single-cell RNA sequencing.We identified the glycosyltransferase UXS1 as a novel immune-related prognostic hub gene in HCC. UXS1 was upregulated due to copy number gain and MZF1-driven promoter hypomethylation. Functionally, UXS1 promoted HCC malignancy independently of its canonical enzymatic activity. Mechanistically, UXS1 interacted with the E3 ligase F-box and WD repeat domain-containing 7 (FBXW7) to promote histone-lysine N-methyltransferase 2D (KMT2D) ubiquitination and degradation. We further discovered that KMT2D, acting as a non-catalytic scaffold, recruited the transcriptional repressor CCAAT enhancer binding protein beta (CEBPB) to the PD-L1 promoter to maintain its repression. UXS1-mediated KMT2D degradation disrupted this complex, leading to CEBPB dissociation and consequent PD-L1 transcriptional derepression. In vivo, UXS1 suppressed CD8+ T-cell effector function. UXS1 knockout synergized with anti-PD-1 therapy, and in human HCC, high UXS1 correlated with low KMT2D, high PD-L1, and reduced CD8+ T-cell infiltration.This study defines a novel UXS1-KMT2D-CEBPB-PD-L1 signaling axis, revealing how UXS1 drives immune evasion in HCC via epigenetic reprogramming. Targeting this axis may represent a potential strategy to overcome immune resistance, warranting further clinical investigation.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42542269
Brown adipose tissue (BAT) activity in humans is linked to better glucose metabolism and cardiometabolic health. In mice, cold exposure increases circulating succinate and enhances BAT thermogenesis, but whether similar succinate responses occur in humans remains undetermined. We analysed data from 33 young (18-25 years), sedentary adults (20 women) from the ACTIBATE cohort (NCT02365129). Plasma succinate was measured enzymatically at baseline and 60 and 120 min during a personalized cooling protocol. BAT volume, activity, and radiodensity were assessed via static 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography-computed tomography (18F-FDG PET-CT) at the end of the cold exposure. Circulating succinate changed over time during cold exposure, with no significant change at 60 min and a significant increase at 120 min versus baseline (+ 23.8%, P = 0.017), with substantial interindividual variability. Exploratory stratification by median baseline succinate revealed divergent temporal patterns: the low-baseline group showed increases at 60 min (+ 46%) and 120 min (+ 80.5%; both P ≤ 0.021), while the high-baseline group showed reductions at both timepoints (-31.4% and - 2.4%; both P ≤ 0.003). These profiles were not explained by phenotypic or BAT-related parameters. In the full cohort, changes in circulating succinate were not associated with BAT outcomes. Overall, our findings indicate that circulating succinate responses during acute cold exposure are highly heterogeneous and no associated with BAT PET/CT-derived parameters in humans.© 2026. The Author(s).
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a fatal interstitial lung disease with limited treatment options. LTI-03 promotes alveolar epithelial cell survival and reduces profibrotic protein expression in experimental models of IPF. In this Phase 1b, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled dose-escalation study, 24 participants with IPF were randomized 3:1 to inhaled LTI-03 5 mg/day (N = 9), LTI-03 10 mg/day (N = 9) or placebo (N = 6) for 14 days and included in all analyses (ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT05954988). The primary endpoint was the incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs). Exploratory analyses included pharmacokinetics and disease-related biomarkers. LTI-03 was well-tolerated, with no treatment-related discontinuations, no severe TEAEs, and no evidence of airway obstruction by spirometry and associated symptoms. In deep bronchial brushings, both LTI-03 doses significantly reduced interleukin-11 (p = 0.0406 at 5 mg/day; p = 0.044 at 10 mg/day) and thymic stromal lymphopoietin (p = 0.0256 at 5 mg/day; p = 0.0128 at 10 mg/day) versus placebo. The 10 mg/day dose suppressed collagen type 1 alpha chain 1 (p = 0.0248), CXC chemokine ligand 7 (p = 0.0248) and galectin-7 (p = 0.0332). Other measured biomarkers were not significantly changed. The favorable safety profile and reductions in disease-related biomarkers support further evaluation of inhaled LTI-03 for IPF. This study was fully funded by Rein Therapeutics, Inc.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511758 is a review article
Adipocytes are essential stromal components of the tumor microenvironment (TME) in breast cancer that play pivotal roles in cancer progression and chemoresistance. In close proximity to tumor cells, they undergo phenotypic reprogramming into cancer-associated adipocytes (CAAs), characterized by multilocular lipid droplets, increased mitochondrial content, and elevated expression of uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1). Although these features superficially resemble those of beige adipocytes, they do not recapitulate classical thermogenic programming, reflecting a unique metabolic adaptation driven by the TME. Here, we identified tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated protein 1 (TRAP1), a mitochondrial paralog of HSP90, as a central regulator of the transition of adipocytes into CAAs. TRAP1 was highly upregulated in CAAs and was required to drive a tumor-associated adipocyte secretory program, including the adipokine complement factor D (CFD). Genetic and pharmacological TRAP1 inhibition destabilized the mitochondrial electron transport chain, reduced cellular respiration, and activated the energy sensor AMPK. This subsequently suppressed mTOR and PPARγ signaling, effectively abrogating adipocyte reprogramming and diminishing pro-tumorigenic adipokine secretion. Crucially, this CAA-secreted CFD promoted cancer cell survival and chemoresistance via C3aR-AKT/ERK signaling, and blocking this TRAP1-mediated crosstalk profoundly sensitized breast tumors to chemotherapy in vivo. Collectively, these findings identify TRAP1 as a master regulator of adipocyte transdifferentiation within the TME, offering a novel strategy to restrict tumor growth and overcome drug resistance in breast cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Sepsis-associated acute respiratory distress syndrome (SA-ARDS) is a severe disease with high morbidity and mortality. Emerging evidence indicates that ferroptosis plays a critical role in the development of SA-ARDS. However, the key regulatory targets and underlying molecular mechanisms remain to be further elucidated. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was performed based on the GSE66890 dataset to identify SA-ARDS-related gene modules. Candidate genes were screened by intersecting WGCNA module genes with ARDS-related targets from the GeneCards database and ferroptosis-related genes from FerrDb. An in vitro SA-ARDS model was established in HuLEC-5a cells using lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Cell viability, inflammatory cytokine levels, apoptosis, and ferroptosis-related parameters, including ROS, MDA, 4-HNE, and Fe2+ levels, were evaluated using MTT, ELISA, flow cytometry, and corresponding assay kits. The mRNA and protein expression levels were determined by RT-qPCR and Western blot. The transcriptional regulation of topoisomerase II alpha (TOP2A) by GATA binding protein 2 (GATA2) was verified using JASPAR prediction, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), and dual-luciferase reporter assays. All cellular experiments were performed using three independent biological replicates. WGCNA identified the salmon and cyan modules as significantly associated with SA-ARDS. Intersection analysis identified TOP2A as a key ferroptosis-related gene in SA-ARDS. TOP2A was significantly upregulated in LPS-induced HuLEC-5a cells. Knockdown of TOP2A markedly alleviated LPS-induced cellular injury, as evidenced by enhanced cell viability, reduced levels of inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, IL-8, TNF-α), decreased apoptosis rate, and lowered ROS and Fe2+ accumulation, reduced MDA and 4-HNE levels, restored GPX4 and SLC7A11 expression, and decreased ACSL4 expression, along with increased expression of endothelial barrier-related proteins. GATA2 directly bound to the TOP2A promoter and activated its transcription. TOP2A overexpression reversed the protective effects of GATA2 knockdown in LPS-induced HuLEC-5a cells. GATA2 transcriptionally activated TOP2A expression, which in turn promoted ferroptosis and exacerbated LPS-induced HuLEC-5a cell injury.GATA2 transcriptionally activates TOP2A to induce ferroptosis and exacerbate endothelial injury in SA-ARDS.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s10616-026-01035-2.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Cancer therapy-induced thrombocytopenia (CTIT) is a common hematologic toxicity associated with anti-tumor treatment. Recombinant human interleukin-11 (rhIL-11), as a thrombopoietic agent, is widely used in clinical practice. However, its efficacy and safety exhibit substantial individual variability, and reliable tools for individualized prediction are currently unavailable.Based on real-world data from 12,431 CTIT patients treated with rhIL-11 across 58 Chinese centers (July 2023-June 2024), this study retrospectively collected comprehensive information on demographics, clinical characteristics, and treatment regimens. The Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) regression was applied to identify key clinical features. Six machine learning algorithms --logistic regression (LR), decision tree (DT), random forest (RF), support vector machine (SVM), extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost), and lightweight gradient boosting machine (LightGBM) --were used to construct separate models for predicting platelet response (efficacy) and adverse events (safety) following rhIL-11 treatment. The dataset was randomly divided into training and test sets in a 7:3 ratio, and an independent external validation set was used to assess model generalizability. SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) analysis was used to provide visual explanations of model feature importance.The RF model demonstrated superior performance in efficacy prediction, with an AUC of 0.812 (95% CI: 0.797-0.828) in the test set and 0.761 (95% CI: 0.717-0.805) in the external validation set; for safety prediction, the RF model also performed best, with an AUC of 0.796 (95% CI: 0.778-0.814) in the test set and 0.739 (95% CI: 0.695-83), in the external validation set. However, the relatively low specificity of RF models in predicting efficacy and safety limited their potential for practical clinical application. SHAP analysis revealed that the predominant factors influencing efficacy were chemotherapy, prior anti-tumor therapy, history of grade III myelosuppression, targeted therapy, and duration of rhIL-11 treatment; whereas key predictors of safety outcomes included immunotherapy, dosing frequency, chemotherapy, and CTIT grades.This study validated that machine learning models (particularly the RF model combined with SHAP analysis) exhibit highly sensitive preliminary screening performance, while enhancing model interpretability. These findings may facilitate the effective identification of patients most likely to benefit from rhIL-11 and provide references for personalized, precision treatment decisions in CTIT management.Copyright © 2026 Wen, Xia, Dong, Liu, Yu, Wang, Qing, Li, Miao, Tang and Yao.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42484928 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565567 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565029 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564199 is a review article
Phenolic compounds are recognized for antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and antidiabetic properties. Lentils are abundant in these compounds, yet comparative studies across varieties and intestinal cells effects remain limited. This study evaluated the nutritional composition, phenolic profile, antioxidant activity, and α-glucosidase inhibition of four lentil types in raw and cooked forms. L01 had the highest bioactive potential and was the only one selected for further evaluation in Caco-2 cells under basal and IL-1β-stimulated conditions. Cooking altered composition, leading to higher protein, fiber, and carbohydrates, reducing tannins, and maintaining high phytic acid in some varieties. L01 consistently showed the highest phenolic content, antioxidant activity, and enzyme inhibition. Its phenolic profile was dominated by kaempferol derivatives, (epi)catechin, and procyanidins, with cooking increasing monomeric catechins but reducing procyanidin oligomers. At noncytotoxic levels, L01 extracts reduced IL-6/8 secretion in stimulated cells, with stronger effects from raw extracts. Additionally, they decreased expression of inflammatory markers (IL-6/8/1β) while increasing expression of metabolic regulation- and barrier-related genes (Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ, Sirtuin 1, Occludin, and Cadherin-1). Only raw extracts significantly enhanced Heme oxygenase-1 expression under stimulation. These findings highlight compositional differences beyond tegument color and support further investigation of phenolic-rich lentils as potential functional food ingredients targeting gut and metabolic health.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558249 is a review article
Atherosclerosis is characterized by the buildup of fatty plaques that thicken and stiffen arterial walls. Macrophages (Mφs) significantly contribute to this process through their scavenger receptor CD36. PIM1 is a serine/threonine kinase known to modulate immune responses and cell metabolism. However, its role in Mφ lipid handling and atherogenesis is not well defined. This study examines the role of PIM1 in regulating CD36 expression and function in Mφs during foam cell formation and atherosclerosis progression.We performed in vitro studies by treating murine peritoneal Mφs from Pim1-/- and wild-type mice with oxLDL (oxidized low-density lipoprotein). We measured CD36, PIM1, and plaque-associated proteins and mRNA levels, oxLDL binding and uptake rates, and foam cell formation. For in vivo studies, we fed myeloid-specific Pim1-deficient (Apoe-/-Lyz2Cre/+Pim1fl/fl) and their littermate control (Apoe-/-Pim1fl/fl) mice a high-fat diet for 12 weeks. We then evaluated plaque formation in their aortic sinuses and arches.Deletion of Pim1 in Mφs reduced CD36 protein expression by up to 96.7% compared with wild-type controls. This led to a 49.6% decrease in foam cell formation and a 25.5% reduction in cellular cholesterol after oxLDL treatment. Pharmacological inhibition of PIM kinase activity in wild-type Mφs also impaired oxLDL handling, with a 64.5% reduction in binding and a 57.9% reduction in uptake. Bulk RNA-sequencing revealed that Pim1 deficiency downregulated PPARγ (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma) signaling. Treatment with a PPARγ agonist restored CD36 levels in the Pim1 knockdown Mφs, suggesting that PIM1 regulates CD36 through PPARγ. Moreover, Pim1 myeloid-specific deficiency caused a 69.4% reduction in atherosclerotic plaque formation.PIM1 acts as a key upstream regulator of CD36 by enhancing PPARγ activity in Mφs. The PIM1-CD36 axis promotes oxLDL binding, uptake, and foam cell formation. Targeting the PIM1/PPARγ/CD36 pathway could offer new ways to modulate Mφ lipid metabolism and reduce atherosclerotic plaque progression.
Triphenyl phosphate (TPhP) is a commonly used organophosphorus flame retardant, and its potential health risks to mothers and infants are considerable. Our previous research revealed that gestational TPhP exposure significantly reduces the depth of placental implantation and impairs uterine spiral arteries remodelling, leading to preeclampsia (PE)-like symptoms, but the underlying mechanism remains unclear. In this study, we further demonstrate that TPhP activated the transcription of Phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) by activating peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma (PPARγ). This activation subsequently inhibits the PI3K-AKT-mTOR signaling pathway, modulates autophagy homeostasis, and inhibits the migration and invasion of extravillous trophoblast (EVT) cells. Notably, knockdown of PTEN or PPARγ with shRNA, or inhibition of autophagy with chloroquine (CQ) alleviates the TPhP-induced inhibition of EVT cells migration or invasion. Furthermore, using an established murine intrauterine exposure model, we confirmed that TPhP activates PPARγ, increases PTEN expression in placental trophoblast, inhibits the PI3K-AKT-mTOR signaling pathway and disturbs autophagy homeostasis. Collectively, these findings elucidate that TPhP inhibits EVT cells migration and invasion via the PPARγ-PTEN-PI3K-AKT-mTOR mediated autophagy pathway, providing a new toxicity pathway in placental toxicology. Additionally, this study provides new insights into the etiological research of PE.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552039 is a review article
Mammalian embryonic diapause is a reversible state of pre-implantation dormancy characterized by metabolic rewiring toward lipid usage as energy source. Whether active signaling sustains this dormant state remained unclear. Here, we show that the transforming growth factor- β (TGF-β) pathway, previously thought to only be required post-implantation, is essential for diapause. Nodal signaling is activated and its downstream effector SMAD family member 2 (Smad2) is required during diapause in vivo. Using ex vivo blastocyst and embryonic stem cells models of diapause, we show that Smad2 represses peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (Pparg), a master regulator of lipid storage. Loss of Smad2-mediated Pparg repression leads to lipid accumulation and is incompatible with pausing. Our findings establish a Nodal-Smad2-Pparg axis that is pivotal for sustaining the transcriptional and metabolic programs of embryonic diapause. This axis may be redeployed in other contexts, including cancer dormancy and metabolic disorders.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The present study examined the impact of conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) on the differentiation and proliferation of bovine intramuscular preadipocyte (BIP) cells, specifically exploring the role of G protein-coupled receptor 41 (GPCR41). Cells were exposed to CLA at various concentrations ranging from 50 to 150 μmol/L. Flow cytometry revealed that treatment with 100 μmol/L CLA led to a significant increase in the proliferation rate. During differentiation, 100 and 150 μmol/L CLA markedly enhanced lipid droplet accumulation. Maximal cytoplasmic lipid content was observed when CLA was combined with insulin and dexamethasone. CLA treatment significantly enhanced the transcript abundance of the adipogenic transcription factors peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) and CCAAT-enhancer binding protein alpha (C/EBPα). Knockdown of GPCR41 via RNA interference in CLA-treated cells led to a significant suppression of GPCR41 expression, accompanied by decreased PPARγ mRNA levels and diminished cytoplasmic lipid droplet formation, indicating impaired differentiation. Taken together, these results show that CLA enhances both differentiation and proliferation of bovine intramuscular preadipocytes, possibly via activation of C/EBPα and PPARγ, with GPCR41 playing a critical role in mediating this adipogenic effect.© 2026. The Society for In Vitro Biology.
Cancer cachexia (CC) is a multifactorial metabolic syndrome characterized by systemic inflammation, muscle wasting, and adipose tissue depletion. Amaranth (Amaranthus caudatus L.), a pseudocereal rich in proteins, squalene, and tocotrienols, exhibits strong antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities. Enzymatic hydrolysis of amaranth proteins enhances bioavailability and physiological potency. Korean mint (Agastache rugosa) extract, abundant in flavonoids such as tilianin and acacetin, has been reported to suppress inflammatory and oxidative pathways. However, the combined effect of amaranth hydrolysate and Korean mint extract (AKE) on cancer cachexia has not been elucidated. CT26 tumor-bearing mice (six-week-old male BALB/c) were orally administered AKE (125 or 250 mg/kg/day) for 14 days. AKE attenuated cachexia-induced weight loss (3.6%-10.3%, p < 0.01) and preserved muscle (13.6%-15.8%, p < 0.01) and fat mass (36.0%-40.8%, p < 0.01). Grip strength was significantly improved. AKE suppressed serum pro-inflammatory cytokines and inhibited muscle protein degradation by downregulating muscle RING-finger protein-1 and muscle atrophy F-box expression. It also enhanced protein synthesis by activating the protein kinase B/mammalian target of rapamycin pathway. In adipose tissue, AKE reduced AMP-activated protein kinase browning while promoting adipogenesis via proliferator-activated receptor gamma, CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha, and Sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1 upregulation. These findings demonstrate that AKE mitigates cancer-induced muscle and fat loss by modulating inflammation, proteolysis, and metabolic remodeling, highlighting its potential as a multi-targeted nutritional strategy for managing cancer cachexia.© 2026 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Feeding behavior, which is crucial for all mammals, is regulated by a delicate equilibrium between the orexigenic and anorexigenic activities of hypothalamic neurons. This exquisite control of the neuropeptides that govern the feeding behavior could be a focal point in the pathogenesis of obesity. We reported that inactivation of C-terminal binding protein 2 (CtBP2), a transcriptional corepressor with metabolite-sensing capabilities, contributes to the pathogenesis of obesity in liver tissues and pancreatic β-cells. Here, we describe a transcriptional system regulated by CtBP2 in the hypothalamus. Our global mapping of CtBP2 binding sites using ChIP-seq combined with functional analyses revealed that CtBP2 functions as a corepressor for orexigenic neuropeptide promoters. In response to the metabolic abnormalities associated with obesity, CtBP2 undergoes allosteric inactivation and dissociates from these promoters, thereby resulting in the derepression of orexigenic neuropeptide expression. Consistently, the loss of CtBP2 in hypothalamic neurons in mice increases the expression of orexigenic neuropeptides, thus leading to increased feeding behavior. These findings highlight how obesity disrupts homeostatic mechanisms that normally maintain body weight within a healthy range.© 2026 The Author(s). The FASEB Journal published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Obesity is a major metabolic disorder characterized by excessive lipid accumulation and adipocyte differentiation. The mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 5 (MEK5) signaling pathway has been implicated in diverse cellular processes; however, its role in adipogenesis remains incompletely understood. In this study, we investigated the anti-adipogenic effects of BIX02189, a selective MEK5 inhibitor, using 3T3-L1 adipocytes, human adipose-derived stem cells (hASCs), and zebrafish models. Treatment with BIX02189 significantly reduced lipid accumulation and triglyceride content during adipocyte differentiation in a dose-dependent manner without marked cytotoxicity. BIX02189 effectively suppressed MEK5 phosphorylation and downregulated the expression of key adipogenic transcription factors, including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR-γ) and CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha (C/EBP-α). In addition, BIX02189 decreased the phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and STAT5, as well as the expression of lipogenic markers such as fatty acid synthase (FAS), perilipin A, and leptin. Conversely, BIX02189 enhanced AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylation and markedly reduced the protein and mRNA expression of acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC), a key enzyme involved in fatty acid synthesis. Similar anti-adipogenic effects were observed in hASCs. Furthermore, BIX02189 significantly attenuated lipid accumulation in a zebrafish obesity model without affecting body length or causing overt toxicity. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that pharmacological inhibition of MEK5 suppresses adipogenesis and lipid accumulation through regulation of the STAT3/STAT5-PPAR-γ axis and activation of AMPK signaling. These findings provide the first evidence that MEK5 inhibition exerts anti-adipogenic effects in adipocytes and zebrafish, highlighting the MEK5 signaling pathway as a previously unrecognized regulator of adipogenesis and lipid metabolism.
This study investigated how cytosine-cytosine-adenine-adenine-thymine (CCAAT)/enhancer-binding protein alpha (CEBPA) mutation sites and types affect the prognosis of acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). It specifically analysed the clinical and genetic features of AML patients harbouring CEBPA basic leucine zipper in-frame insertion/deletion (CEBPA bZIP-InDel-inf) mutations and identified prognostic factors in this subtype. Prognostic factors in CEBPA bZIP-InDel-inf subgroup were examined in depth. Overall survival (OS) and relapse-free survival (RFS) censoring models were built, informative censoring was adjusted using inverse probability of censoring weighting, and stabilized weights were applied in weighted Cox regression analyses. Risk scores for OS and RFS were then developed from multivariable results. Ninety-three patients with CEBPA mutation, 56 had CEBPA bZIP-InDel-inf. Compared with CEBPA bZIP-InDel-inf, CEBPA non-InDel had a worse prognosis. Within the bZIP region, bZIP-InDel-inf also showed better outcomes than other mutation types, especially in double-mutated cases. In weighted multivariate analysis, higher white blood cell count, blast cell count and M4/M5 phenotype independently predicted worse OS, while higher variant allele frequency (VAF), colony stimulating factor 3 receptor (CSF3R) mutation and lower haemoglobin predicted worse RFS. These variables enabled clear OS and RFS risk stratification. CEBPA bZIP-InDel-inf is a favourable CEBPA-mutated AML subtype. Further research is needed to elucidate the role of bZIP-domain-mutated proteins.© 2026 British Society for Haematology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42483825 is a review article
To determine lactate metabolism-associated biomarkers for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Based on NAFLD datasets from the gene expression omnibus database and lactate metabolism-related genes from GeneCards database, NAFLD-lactate metabolism hub genes (NAFLD-LM HGs) were screened via differential analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis and four machine learning algorithms. Their diagnostic efficacy was evaluated; molecular subtyping was performed; single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was subsequently conducted; and validation was finally conducted in NAFLD mouse models. We finally screened out eight NAFLD-LM HGs, namely CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha (CEBPA), flavin containing dimethylaniline monooxygenase 1 (FMO1), insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 1 (IGFBP1), krüppel-like factor 4 (KLF4), low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR), myelocytomatosis oncogene (MYC), nuclear receptor subfamily 4 group A member 2 (NR4A2), and thymidylate synthase (TYMS), with a diagnostic rate of 0.798 and an area under the curve of 0.948. These genes drove the molecular heterogeneity in NAFLD patients by modulating of metabolism and immune microenvironment. The results of scRNA-seq clarified that Th17 cells were identified as the most abundant annotated cell subset. Through animal experiments, five genes (LDLR, MYC, IGFBP1, NR4A2, and KLF4) were established to have potential protective effects against NAFLD. Five genes (LDLR, MYC, IGFBP1, NR4A2, KLF4) are identified as "protective factors", and their downregulation is associated with NAFLD progression. The remaining three genes (CEBPA, FMO1, TYMS) exhibit inconsistent expression patterns, suggesting bidirectional regulation.© 2026. The Author(s).
E1A-binding protein (p300)/CREB-binding protein (CBP) bromodomains represent attractive therapeutic targets for anticancer drug development. Herein, we describe a structure-guided optimization of the lead compound UMB298 through a conformationally constrained cyclization strategy. A concise four-step synthesis (overall yield >30%), centered on a three-component reaction, was developed, enabling efficient construction of a lactam-containing imidazo[1,2-a]pyridine library for rapid screening. Among these compounds, CZL-105 emerges as a promising p300/CBP bromodomain inhibitor. It exhibits potent activity against p300 and CBP while sparing BET and demonstrates strong antiproliferative potency in OPM-2 multiple myeloma cells. Acceptable metabolic stability and pharmacokinetics support once-daily oral dosing, leading to significant tumor growth inhibition (TGI = 61%) in an OPM-2 xenograft model. These results position CZL-105 as a promising lead compound for further development. This work combines a rational design strategy and efficient chemical synthesis, accelerating the discovery of novel p300/CBP bromodomain inhibitors.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42463562 is a review article
CEBPA, a GC rich gene encodes for transcription factor CCAAT/enhancer binding protein alpha (C/EBPα) which is essential for granulocyte development. Mutation(s) in CEBPA leads to block in myeloid cells differentiation which is characteristic of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). In addition, mutation(s) in CEBPA has been associated with prognosis in AML. Therefore, analysis of protein-coding sequence of CEBPA is critical in patients diagnosed with AML. This study aimed to optimize PCR amplification followed by Sanger sequencing of GC rich regions of CEBPA in AML patients using betaine which is a known PCR additive with relatively less inhibitory effect.PCR amplification using two sets of primer was performed with varying concentrations of betaine and MgCl2 at different annealing temperatures. Purified amplified PCR products were used for Sanger sequencing. PCR amplification of both 576 bp and 703 bp specific amplicons was achieved consistently with 1 M betaine and 2mM MgCl2. We found that increase in betaine inhibits PCR at higher annealing temperature which can be attributed to its ability to decrease the melting temperature of the DNA template. The optimized protocol did not interfere with the downstream applications such as PCR-product purification and Sanger sequencing in AML patients.These findings establish a potentially cost-effective and feasible method for sequencing protein-coding region of CEBPA in AML patients.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
The Cavβ4 subunit of voltage-gated Cav1.2 channels regulates gene expression in neurons and cardiac cells. It increases the expression of interferon-β-related genes in H9c2 cardiomyocytes derived from rat ventricular tissue, but the possibility that it also regulates the expression of microRNAs (miRs) remains unexplored. Furthermore, its role in cardiac hypertrophy is unknown. Although the mechanisms underlying cardiac hypertrophy have been studied extensively, the antihypertrophic response is poorly understood. We conducted quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, western blot, and immunofluorescence experiments with H9c2 cardiomyocytes to examine the effects of Cavβ4 overexpression on isoproterenol-induced hypertrophy; the protein abundance of the transcription factors nuclear receptor 4A2 (NR4A2) and forkhead box O1 (FOXO1), which counter agonist-induced hypertrophic growth; and the expression of miR-183-5p, which targets NR4A2 and FOXO1 mRNAs. We found that the Cavβ4 subunit prevented the development of H9c2 cardiomyocyte hypertrophy, down-regulating miR-183-5p expression and increasing the protein abundance of NR4A2 and FOXO1. We also observed a transient decrease in Cavβ4 mRNA expression in rat ventricles at 6 h after isoproterenol injection. These results suggest that the Cavβ4 subunit plays a channel-independent role in the antihypertrophic response in cardiac muscle cells.© 2026 The Author(s). Physiological Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Physiological Society and the American Physiological Society.
Persistent injury and impaired regeneration of the alveolar epithelium are key contributors to the pathogenesis of pulmonary fibrosis. In idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), type 2 alveolar epithelial (AT2) cells fail to fully differentiate into type 1 alveolar epithelial (AT1) cells, remaining instead in a transitional state. Histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors are promising therapeutic agents for pulmonary fibrosis. Therefore, this study investigated whether MPT0E028, a pan-HDAC inhibitor, ameliorated bleomycin (BLM)-induced pulmonary fibrosis in a therapeutic model of mice by promoting AT2-to-AT1 cell differentiation.The effects of MPT0E028 on pulmonary fibrosis were assessed by evaluating the expression of fibrogenic proteins and cell markers of AT1 (T1α and aquaporin 5 [AQP5]), AT2 (surfactant protein C [SPC]) and alveolar epithelial transitional cells (Keratin 8 [KRT8]) in a therapeutic model of BLM-induced pulmonary fibrosis in mice. The role of the ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (ATM)/AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK)/forkhead box O1 (FoxO1) signaling pathway in MPT0E028-induced T1α expression was examined in murine AT2 cells (MLE-12 cells).Administration of MPT0E028 significantly reduced fibrosis scores; suppressed the expression of connective tissue growth factor, collagen I, fibronectin, and α-smooth muscle actin; and improved lung function in the therapeutic model of BLM-induced pulmonary fibrosis in mice. MPT0E028 enhanced the expression of T1α and AQP5 but reduced the expression of SPC and KRT8 in lung tissues from BLM-treated mice. In MLE-12 cells and primary human AT2 cells, MPT0E028 upregulated T1α and AQP5 expression in a time-dependent manner, with this accompanied by a decrease in SPC expression. AS1842856, an FoxO1 inhibitor, and FoxO1 siRNA transfection inhibited MPT0E028-stimulated T1α expression, whereas transfection with FoxO3 siRNA had no effect. FoxO1 siRNA transfection also inhibited MPT0E028-stimulated T1α-luciferase activity. MPT0E028 induced FoxO1 serine phosphorylation, increased FoxO1 recruitment to the T1α promoter, and enhanced FoxO1-luciferase activity. Compound C, an AMPK inhibitor, and AMPK siRNA transfection suppressed MPT0E028-stimulated T1α expression, and compound C also inhibited MPT0E028-promoted FoxO1 recruitment to the T1α promoter. MPT0E028 induced AMPK phosphorylation in a time-dependent manner and increased ATM acetylation and phosphorylation in MLE-12 cells. ATM siRNA transfection suppressed MPT0E028-induced T1α expression, AMPK and FoxO1 serine phosphorylation, FoxO1 recruitment to the T1α promoter, and FoxO1-luciferase activity. MPT0E028 induced FoxO1 phosphorylation in AT2 cells in the therapeutic model of BLM-induced pulmonary fibrosis in mice.MPT0E028 is the first pan-HDAC inhibitor shown to activate ATM acetylation-mediated AMPK/FoxO1 signaling to induce AT2-to-AT1 differentiation in a therapeutic model of BLM-induced pulmonary fibrosis in mice. Administration of MPT0E028 after BLM challenge effectively ameliorated pulmonary fibrosis by suppressing fibrogenic protein expression and promoting AT2-to-AT1 cell differentiation. These results suggest that MPT0E028 holds potential as a therapeutic agent for IPF treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
In recent years, the association between abnormal cholesterol metabolism and Parkinson's disease (PD) has attracted considerable attention, but the specific mechanism remains controversial. First, we used Mendelian Randomization (MR) analysis to clarify the relationship between cholesterol and PD. Subsequently, scRNA-seq and RNA-seq were used to identify the crucial role of astrocyte 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGCR) in this process. Moreover, we verified its downstream target genes by RNA-seq, in vivo and in vitro experiments. The upstream transcriptional regulator of HMGCR was identified by database and validated by luciferase reporter and siRNA knockdown assays. The results of the MR analysis showed that low cholesterol levels may increase the risk of PD. This phenomenon was also observed in the PD mouse model. The scRNA-seq and RNA-seq results showed that astrocyte HMGCR played an important role in PD. Increasing astrocytic HMGCR alleviated cholesterol level and PD-related phenotypes. Mechanistically, astrocytic HMGCR-mediated cholesterol alleviated PD phenotypes by inhibiting Nuclear Factor Kappa-B (NF-κB) neuroinflammation. Furthermore, knocking down Forkhead Box O1 (FOXO1) restored HMGCR expression and cholesterol levels, subsequently inhibiting NF-κB activation. Our research indicated that the cholesterol synthesis disorder in astrocytes driven by HMGCR can exacerbate the pathogenesis of PD by promoting neuroinflammation. Targeting HMGCR in astrocytes will be a potential therapeutic approach.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Identifying pathological markers to differentiate between high- and low-grade pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PanIN) remains an unmet clinical need. Recent studies suggest that the tumor microenvironment undergoes dynamic changes during PanIN progression. To establish objective pathological markers, this study investigated histological, immunohistochemical, and molecular alterations in PanIN-associated stroma across different grades.Fibroblastic cluster (FC) was defined and characterized using immunohistochemistry (IHC) for SMA, CD31, and CD34, and their frequency was assessed according to PanIN grade in 202 PanIN lesions and 58 normal ducts. To identify molecular differences among PanIN types, multiple gene expression analysis (MGEA) was performed for six normal ducts, and for three PanIN1, three PanIN2, and six PanIN3 lesions. IHC and fluorescent dual IHC for CD31 and CD36 were performed to quantify CD36-positive stromal vessels. RNA scope for PPAR and IHC for thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1) and forkhead box O1 (FOXO-1) were performed to explore the molecular basis of CD36 downregulation.FCs were identified in 86.6% of PanIN3 stroma and were significantly more frequent than in lower-grade PanINs. MGEA revealed downregulation of CD36 in PanIN2-3 compared with PanIN1, and CD36-positive vessels were significantly fewer in higher-grade PanIN stroma. PPAR signals were present in low-grade but absent in high-grade PanIN stroma. TSP-1 expression paralleled CD36 expression. These findings suggest that the possible relationship between the repression of CD36 in the stromal vasculature of high-grade PanIN and reduced PPAR and TSP-1 signaling.Higher-grade PanINs harbor a unique stroma characterized by FC formation and an increased proportion of CD36-negative vessels.The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Although Mettl3-mediated N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification has confirmed to regulate mammalian development, the precise mechanisms by which it controls myoblast differentiation and fusion remain unclear. Here, we found that Mettl3 expression and global m6A levels decreased during myogenic differentiation. Mettl3 knockdown inhibited myoblast proliferation, promoted myoblast differentiation and fusion, and reduced protein degradation in myotubes, whereas its overexpression had the opposite effects. High-throughput sequencing identified forkhead box O1 (FOXO1) as a potential target of Mettl3-mediated myogenesis. Mechanically, Mettl3-mediated methylation of FOXO1 3'untranslated region (3'UTR) promotes its translation in a Ythdf3-dependent manner, thereby suppressing the MyoD1-Myomaker/Myomixer axis and activating the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS). Furthermore, FOXO1 knockdown alleviates the impaired myoblast differentiation and fusion induced by Mettl3 overexpression by upregulating the MyoD1-Myomaker/Myomixer axis and suppressing the UPS. Collectively, these findings indicate that Mettl3 inhibits myoblast differentiation and fusion via the FOXO1-mediated MyoD1-Myomaker/Myomixer axis and UPS in an m6A-Ythdf3-dependent manner.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The mechanism of cholestatic liver injury (CLI) is unclear, and effective therapies are lacking. While peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα) agonists show potential hepatoprotective effect and pyroptosis is implicated in hepatocellular damage, how PPARα activation mitigates lithocholic acid (LCA)-induced pyroptosis remains unknown.The hepatoprotective effect of PPARα agonists was evaluated in a mouse model of intrahepatic cholestasis induced by LCA. Liver injury was assessed via serum biochemistry, hematoxylin and eosin and TUNEL staining, and electron microscopy. Pyroptosis pathways were analyzed using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction, Western blot, and co-immunoprecipitation.Combined morphological, histopathological, and biochemical analyses confirmed that PPARα activation protects against CLI. Compared with LCA treatment alone, PPARα activation significantly attenuated the elevation of serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), the increased TUNEL-positive cells, and the formation of hepatocyte membrane pores. Mechanistically, PPARα activation suppressed both NOD-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome-mediated pyroptosis and apoptosis protease-activating factor-1 (APAF-1)/CASPASE-3/GSDME-mediated pyroptosis. Furthermore, PPARα agonist pretreatment inhibited activation of the nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) and forkhead box O1 (FOXO1) signaling pathways.PPARα protects against LCA-induced CLI by inhibiting both NLRP3 inflammasome-mediated pyroptosis associated with NF-κB and APAF-1/CASPASE-3/GSDME-mediated pyroptosis associated with the FOXO1 signaling pathway.© 2026 The Third Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-Sen University. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd.
Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is a common pregnancy complication associated with adverse maternal and fetal outcomes. Although the prevalence of GDM is high, the molecular mechanisms involved in GDM-related placental dysfunction remain poorly understood. This study aimed to investigate the roles of Forkhead box O1 (FoxO1) and fibroblast growth factor 12 (FGF12; a non-FGF receptor) in regulating trophoblast survival under GDM conditions.Placental tissue from women with GDM and matched non-GDM controls were collected to assess FGF12 expression. HTR8/SVneo trophoblast cells under high-glucose conditions were used to assess cellular functional assays, including proliferation, migration, and apoptosis, following FGF12 knockdown or overexpression.The level of FGF12 was significantly attenuated in placental tissues from GDM cases. Silencing FGF12 decreased trophoblast growth and migration, and increased apoptosis induced by high glucose, while FGF12 overexpression reversed these effects. Mechanistically, FoxO1 directly bound to the FGF12 promoter, downregulated its expression. In placental samples from GDM pregnancies, FoxO1 expression was negatively correlated with FGF12 levels. Furthermore, FoxO1 inhibited trophoblast proliferation and migration, while FGF12 overexpression partially rescued the inhibitory effects of FoxO1.These findings suggest that the FoxO1/FGF12 pathway may contribute to impaired trophoblast function in GDM. This study provides preliminary evidence for a regulatable molecular pathway involved in GDM-associated placental dysfunction; however, further validation in larger cohorts and physiologically relevant models is required before clinical applications can be applied.
Maintenance of glucose and lipid homeostasis is essential for metabolic health, and its dysregulation, driven by complex gene-environment interactions-underlies various metabolic disorders. Free fatty acid receptor 4 (FFAR4) has been proposed to link dietary signals with genetic metabolic predisposition, yet the precise mechanisms underlying the pathophysiological function of FFAR4 remain elusive and lack of the highly selective FFAR4 agonists. Our study shed light on the pivotal role of FFAR4 in metabolic homeostasis within metabolic organs. Hepatic FFAR4 deficiency in mice exacerbates lipid accumulation and promoted severe steatosis, whereas its overexpression ameliorates diet-induced metabolic dysfunction. Mechanistically, suppression of hepatic FFAR4 promotes lipogenesis by enhancing co-activation of the nuclear receptor Nr1h3 and PPARγ. Furthermore, we identify bavachalcone, a non-carboxylated compound isolated from the traditional Chinese medicine Psoralea corylifolia L., as a functionally effective FFAR4 agonist, which could robustly attenuate metabolic dysfunction. Structural analysis using cryo-electron microscopy reveals the binding mode of bavachalcone within the FFAR4-Gαiq complex and illuminated the underlying mechanisms. In conclusion, our findings highlight an indispensable role of hepatic FFAR4 in counteracting metabolic dysregulation and identify bavachalcone as a selective and translatable FFAR4 agonist worthy of further clinical evaluation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42372394 is a review article
Aging leads to renal function decline and increases the risk of chronic kidney disease (CKD). Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) are essential fatty acids for humans, exerting their functions via free fatty acid receptor 4 (FFAR4). Clinical studies indicate that omega-3 PUFAs supplementation shows benefits for the elderly population and CKD patients, but these results remain controversial. Herein, we found that omega-3 PUFAs alleviated renal fibrosis and tubular senescence in aged mice, adenine diet-induced CKD mice, and unilateral ureteral obstruction (UUO) mice. Meanwhile, omega-3 fatty acid receptor FFAR4 expression in tubular epithelial cells (TECs) were down-regulated in the old population and CKD patients, positively correlated with renal dysfunction. Systemic or TEC-specific knockout of FFAR4 aggravated renal aging and CKD in mice. Mechanically, FFAR4 agonism increases the production of endogenous PPARγ activator 15-deoxy-∆12,14-Prostaglandin J2 (15d-PGJ2), and improves PPARγ-dependent tubular epithelial cell senescence, which was indicated by anti-aging marker Klotho expression, senescence-associated β-galactosidase (SA-β-gal) activity, and profibrotic factor TGF-β1 secretion. The study demonstrated a novel role of FFAR4 from senescent TECs on fibroblast activation via paracrine effects and highlighted the therapeutic effects of omega-3 PUFAs with their receptor FFAR4 as an attractive drug target against renal aging and CKD.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Sperm quality influences fertility and offspring health through both genomic inheritance and epigenetic inheritance. Thus, for use in clinical-assisted reproductive technology (ART), spermatozoa must have optimal genomic and epigenetic structures. In patients with retrograde ejaculation, spermatozoa are usually recovered from urine and then cryopreserved for ART. However, the effects of urine exposure and subsequent freeze-thaw cycles on sperm quality remain unclear. This is particularly true for epigenetic changes and their underlying mechanisms. In this study, we examined how different durations of urine exposure (10 min and 40 min) followed by freeze-thaw cycles affected sperm motility, DNA integrity, and methylation levels of imprinting genes (H19-imprinted maternally expressed transcript [H19], mesoderm-specific transcript [MEST], and the transposable element Alu [Alu]). As the duration of urine exposure increased, sperm motility (median [interquartile range]) decreased from 48.0% (39.0%-52.5%) to 1.0% (1.0%-5.0%), the DNA fragmentation index (DFI; median [interquartile range]) increased from 12.0% (9.3%-19.9%) to 23.5% (13.9%-33.9%), the MEST methylation level (mean ± standard deviation [s.d.]) increased from 3.8% ± 1.5% to 11.5 ± 1.2%, and the H19 methylation level (mean ± s.d.) decreased from 86.9% ± 0.9% to 82.1% ± 0.5%. The freeze-thaw process further reduced sperm motility, while the DFI and methylation levels of MEST and H19 did not significantly change. The Alu methylation level remained stable. These findings demonstrate that urine exposure affects sperm motility, DNA integrity, and methylation levels of some imprinting genes. These effects intensify over time. In contrast, the freeze-thaw process impacts only sperm motility. In clinical practice, minimizing exposure to urine might improve sperm quality.Copyright ©The Author(s)(2026).
Free Fatty Acid Receptor 4 (FFAR4/GPR120) is a lipid-sensing GPCR, yet quantitative evidence linking binding-pocket residues to endogenous fatty-acid selectivity and coupling behavior remains limited. In particular, how Arg99, Trp198 and Trp207 cooperatively shape ligand-class dependence (saturated vs unsaturated; short-vs long-chain) has not been systematically quantified using a unified experimental metric.An AuNP-assisted, HRP/Thionine-amplified electrochemical GPR120 receptor sensor was constructed and stepwise assembly was verified by cyclic voltammetry. Steady-state chronoamperometry was performed for wild-type GPR120 and engineered variants with 14 natural fatty acids, and plateau currents were converted to ΔI(%) (mean ± SD, n = 3 independent electrodes). An operational coupling parameter Ka (ligand concentration producing a half-maximal steady-state response, ΔI%, plateau value) was extracted by double-reciprocal linearization with high linearity (R2 = 0.931-0.997, most ≥0.95). For wild-type GPR120, Ka values ranged from 2.87 × 10-17 to 1.78 × 10-13 M, revealing chain-length dependence and ligand-class differences in steady-state coupling. Mutations induced pronounced ligand-dependent shifts, exemplified by butyric acid (WT 2.73 × 10-15 → mut1 4.05 × 10-13 M), linoleic acid (WT 3.80 × 10-15 → mut2 4.24 × 10-16 M), and palmitic acid (WT 6.87 × 10-15 → mut3 2.10 × 10-13 M). Molecular docking (AutoDock Vina; exhaustiveness = 8; 9 output poses; grid-box settings in Table 1) and 100-ns molecular dynamics simulations (GROMACS 2022.1, CHARMM36 m/TIP3P; 2 fs; 300 K; 1 bar; PME; 1.0 nm cutoff) supported the Ka trends by revealing ligand-class-dependent pocket accommodation and mutation-dependent changes in interaction networks and stability signatures. Quantitatively, backbone RMSD mainly fluctuated within 0.5-1.5 nm, protein-ligand hydrogen bonds were typically ∼1-4, and radius of gyration variations were <0.05 nm, indicating overall stable folds with mutation-dependent local pocket rearrangements.This work provides a practical electrochemical-computational framework for residue-resolved profiling of GPR120-fatty acid coupling behavior using Ka as a unified quantitative metric. Experimentally, the workflow yielded 56 quantitative Ka values (14 fatty acids × WT and mut1-3) with robust extraction quality (R2 = 0.931-0.997). Class-stratified analysis using ΔlogKa = log10[Ka(mut)/Ka(WT)] revealed residue-dependent trends in coupling behavior. In particular, mut1 and mut2 showed different shifts between saturated and unsaturated fatty acids (mut1: SFA +0.55 ± 0.75 vs UFA -0.21 ± 0.47; mut2: SFA +0.50 ± 0.54 vs UFA -0.50 ± 0.40), consistent with an important contribution to headgroup recognition. The Trp198/Trp207 variant generally exhibited higher Ka values for many tested fatty acids (e.g., palmitic acid 6.87 × 10-15 to 2.10 × 10-13 M), suggesting altered hydrophobic/aromatic packing associated with ligand-class-dependent differences across saturated/unsaturated and short-/long-chain fatty acids.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Sinomenine (SIN) exhibits inhibitory effects on different types of tumor cells, containing gastric cancer (GC). However, the anti-cancer molecular mechanism of SIN in GC is still not fully revealed.Cell viability, proliferation, apoptosis, and migration were assessed using MTT, EdU, flow cytometry, and transwell. To understand the role of SIN during the immune escape, GC cells were co-cultured with peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) in vitro. Effects of GC cells on apoptosis ratio, proliferation, and cytotoxicity of CD8+ T cells were detected using flow cytometry and LDH cytotoxicity Kit. Methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3) and Mesoderm-specific transcript (MEST) expression were measured using RT-qPCR. Western blot detected METTL3, MEST, RHOA, and ROCK2 protein expression. After being predicted using SRAMP and RMbase, the possible interaction between METTL3 and MEST was identified using MeRIP-qPCR and RIP assays. Role of SIN on GC cell growth in vivo was assessed by a xenograft model.SIN blocked GC cell growth and immune escape. METTL3 and MEST content was reduced in SIN-treated GC cells. METTL3 upregulation relieved anti-tumor effects of SIN on GC cells. In mechanism, METTL3 enhanced the stability of MEST mRNA via m6A methylation. SIN modulated the RhoA/ROCK2 signaling pathway by the METTL3/MEST axis. SIN suppressed tumor growth in vivo.SIN treatment repressed GC cell development partially by the METTL3/MEST axis, providing a possible therapeutic strategy for GC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Interstitial lung disease is one of the most severe pulmonary complications of connective tissue diseases and is associated with high mortality and poor prognosis due to the lack of effective therapies. Free fatty acid receptor 4, a receptor activated by long-chain unsaturated fatty acids, participates in the regulation of inflammatory responses; however, its direct role and underlying mechanisms in ILD-related pulmonary fibrosis have not yet been reported.In this study, we investigated the effect of FFA4 on pulmonary fibrosis using both in vivo and in vitro models. A bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis model was established in wild-type and FFAR4 knockout mice. In vitro, a Transwell co-culture system consisting of RAW264.7 macrophages and NIH3T3 fibroblasts was constructed. Transfection, transcriptomic analysis, dual-luciferase reporter assays, RT-qPCR, and Western blotting were performed to explore the molecular mechanisms mediated by FFA4. In addition, pharmacological interventions with the FFA4 agonist CpdA and the NF-κB inhibitor BAY11-7082 were used to evaluate the role of the NF-κB-IL-33 signaling axis in inflammation-driven fibrotic responses.FFA4 expression was reduced in the bleomycin-induced fibrosis model. In both the co-culture system and the mouse model, FFA4 deficiency significantly increased IL-33 expression and aggravated pulmonary fibrosis. In contrast, activation of FFA4 with CpdA reduced IL-33 expression and attenuated pulmonary fibrosis. Moreover, BAY11-7082 also suppressed IL-33 expression. Genetic deletion and pharmacological activation experiments further confirmed that the inhibitory effect of CpdA on IL-33 expression was dependent on FFA4.Collectively, these findings demonstrate that FFA4 restrains inflammatory signal amplification and suppresses pulmonary fibrosis progression by regulating the NF-κB-IL-33 signaling axis, suggesting that FFA4 may serve as a potential therapeutic target for pulmonary fibrosis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Septic cardiomyopathy (SCM) is a prevalent complication among septic patients, accompanied by high mortality. Estrogen-related receptor alpha (ERRα), a transcription factor, is implicated in various cardiovascular diseases. Nonetheless, its role in SCM remains unclear. Here, the cecum ligation and puncture (CLP) procedure was used to construct a mouse sepsis model. We found that the ERRα expression was downregulated in septic hearts. Adeno-associated virus-9 (AAV-9)-mediated cardiomyocyte-specific ERRα overexpression improved the survival rate of septic mice. Additionally, ERRα overexpression ameliorated CLP-induced cardiac dysfunction and myocardial pathological damage. In vitro, HL-1 mouse cardiomyocytes were transduced with an ERRα overexpression adenovirus before LPS stimulation. The results demonstrated that ERRα overexpression mitigated LPS-induced inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-18) and apoptosis (Bax, cleaved caspase-3/9) in HL-1 cells. Mechanistically, ERRα inhibited the NF-κB/NLRP3 inflammasome activation in septic hearts and LPS-stimulated HL-1 cells. Furthermore, we overlapped the differentially expressed genes of septic hearts (GSE125042) and ERRα KO hearts (GSE7196) to identify the downstream target genes. Meteorin like, glial cell differentiation regulator (METRNL) was identified as the target gene of ERRα. Notably, ERRα bound to the METRNL promoter and upregulated its activity, which was confirmed via dual-luciferase reporter assay, ChIP-qPCR, and oligonucleotide pull-down assay. Knockdown of METRNL prevented the effects of ERRα overexpression on the apoptosis and inflammatory response of cardiomyocytes induced by LPS. Our findings underscore the role of ERRα in mitigating myocardial injury in SCM, indicating its potential as a new therapeutic approach.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41956426 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 41915334 is a review article
Rho GTPase-activating protein 11A (ARHGAP11A) and family with sequence similarity 83, member A (FAM83A) play important roles in tumor development. However, the mutual regulatory relationship and mechanism of action between ARHGAP11A and FAM83A in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) and pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PAAD) are still unclear. This study investigated the role of the ARHGAP11A-FAM83A regulatory network in LUAD/PAAD progression via bioinformatics and experimental analyses.In this study, 33 tumor-related sequencing datasets were downloaded from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database, and relevant tumor tissues were collected to explore which tumors showed the highest correlation between ARHGAP11A and FAM83A. A Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) was conducted to identify common enrichment pathways and the significantly different proteins of ARHGAP11A and FAM83A. The protein and gene expression of ARHGAP11A and FAM83A were also knocked down to explore the regulatory relationship and mechanism of ARHGAP11A and FAM83A in tumors. Univariate and multivariate Cox regression and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analyses were conducted to establish and evaluate a prognostic model based on ARHGAP11A and FAM83A (risk model), and to explore the correlation of the model with patient clinical and pathological parameters. Finally, lactate and glucose content, Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), tablet cloning, flow cytometry cycles, apoptosis, and membrane potential experiments were performed to explore the roles of ARHGAP11A and FAM83A in tumor progression.After a series of studies, we found a strong correlation between ARHGAP11A and FAM83A in LUAD and PAAD across 33 tumor types. In the collected tumor and adjacent cancer groups, the correlation between ARHGAP11A and FAM83A was significant and highly distributed in the LUAD and PAAD groups. Meanwhile, ARHGAP11A and FAM83A were significantly enriched in the MYC, MTORC1, and glycolysis-related pathways. A series of related and intersection analyses revealed that ARHGAP11A and FAM83A were highly correlated with lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA). Western blot and reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) experiments showed that the expression of ARHGAP11A had a significant effect on FAM83A and LDHA. Additionally, FAM83A also affected LDHA expression. The risk model played an important role in patient diagnosis and prognosis. Further, this risk model served as a superior independent prognostic factor compared with other clinical and pathological parameters. Finally, the knock down of ARHGAP11A and FAM83A significantly affected the glycolysis, proliferation, apoptosis resistance, cell-cycle progression, migration, invasion, and mitochondrial membrane potential of LUAD and PAAD cells.This study showed that ARHGAP11A affects the occurrence and development of LUAD and PAAD by regulating the expression of FAM83A. This study also provides a new perspective for later tumor treatment.© AME Publishing Company.
To highlight the key translational advances and interdisciplinary discussions from the 2025 University of Debrecen Musculoskeletal Symposium (UD-MUSK), focusing on osteoarthritis (OA) and related musculoskeletal (MSK) diseases.The UD-MUSK Symposium convened international and local experts for keynote presentations and scientific dialogue spanning OA and MSK disease mechanisms, translational therapies, and tissue regeneration. Core topics included extracellular matrix (ECM) remodelling, cell/gene therapies, animal disease models, chronic stress, autoimmunity, immunotherapies, and muscle and stem cell biology, reflecting the Symposium's broad interdisciplinary spectrum.ECM proteomics revealed degradation fragments that act as drivers and potential modulators of OA, offering new biomarkers and therapeutic targets. Advances in cell- and gene-based therapies were presented, including the use of growth differentiation factor 6 (GDF6) and CRISPR approaches for cartilage and intervertebral disc repair. Large animal models simulating spatio-temporal changes in human OA, and studies demonstrating chronic stress-accelerated OA via neuroendocrine mechanisms, were highlighted. Novel strategies in immune modulation, such as chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy for autoimmune myopathies, alongside research on muscle regeneration and circadian regulation by mechanical loading, further exemplified the translational breadth of the meeting.The symposium underscored the value and need of integrating molecular research and disease modeling. Interdisciplinary collaboration continues to enhance understanding of MSK disease mechanisms and supports development of targeted, regenerative therapies with translational potential for OA and related disorders.© 2025 The Author(s).
The protein Family with Sequence Similarity 83, Member A (FAM83A) is associated with the advancement of various tumors. This study examines the biological function and fundamental processes of FAM83A in lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC).The GSE33479 dataset was used to compare FAM83A expression levels in LUSC, while the GSE73403 dataset explored its prognostic relevance. FAM83A was knocked down or over-expressed in LUSC cell lines, and CCK-8, colony formation, Transwell, and flow cytometry assays were performed to evaluate the effects of altered FAM83A expression on LUSC cell proliferation, apoptosis, invasion, and migration. Organoids and animal models were utilized to validate the impact of FAM83A knockdown on tumor growth. Finally, FAM83A-overexpressing LUSC cells were treated with SCH772984, a specific ERK inhibitor, to elucidate the potential mechanism underlying the oncogenic effect of FAM83A.FAM83A was upregulated in LUSC tissues and cell lines, with high expression correlating with shorter overall survival. Depletion of FAM83A reduced the migration, invasion, and proliferation of LUSC cells, accompanied by cell cycle arrest and increased apoptotic rate. Western blotting analyses showed that FAM83A knockdown upregulated E-cadherin, BAX, and Cleaved-PARP/Caspase 3, while downregulating N-cadherin, Vimentin, BCL2, and Cyclin D1. Conversely, overexpression of FAM83A in LUSC cells yielded the opposite phenotypes. In both organoid cultures and in vivo models, inhibition of FAM83A attenuated tumor growth. Rescue experiments demonstrated that SCH772984 reversed the malignant phenotypes induced by FAM83A over-expression, indicating that FAM83A promoted cell cycle progression, inhibits apoptosis, and enhances epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in LUSC through activating the ERK signaling pathway.FAM83A is crucial in the advancement and spread of LUSC, as it promotes EMT and inhibits apoptosis via the activation of the ERK pathway. These findings highlight its potential as a strategic molecular target for the treatment of LUSC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Objective: Cardiac hypertrophy, a key feature and predisposing factor of heart failure, is mainly controlled by complex signaling cascades. Growth differentiation factor 6 (GDF6) plays critical roles in cell growth and cardiovascular homeostasis; however, its role and underlying mechanisms in cardiac hypertrophy remain unclear. Methods: Mice were intravenously injected with adeno-associated virus serotype 9 to overexpress and knock down GDF6 in murine hearts and then exposed to transverse aortic constriction (TAC) surgery to generate pressure overload-induced cardiac hypertrophy. Echocardiographic, histological, and molecular analyses were performed to decipher the alterations to cardiac hypertrophy. In addition, neonatal rat ventricular myocytes (NRVMs) were isolated and stimulated with phenylephrine (PE) to further validate its involvement in hypertrophic growth of cardiomyocytes. Results: GDF6 expression was elevated in murine hearts and NRVMs by ROS production under hypertrophic stimuli. GDF6 knockdown aggravated, while GDF6 overexpression attenuated, pressure overload-induced cardiac hypertrophy, inflammation, and dysfunction in vivo. Meanwhile, we found that GDF6 also prevented PE-induced hypertrophic growth of NRVMs in vitro. Mechanistically, GDF6 activated AMPKα to exert cardioprotective effects, and AMPKα inhibition significantly blocked the anti-hypertrophic effects of GDF6. Further studies showed that GDF6 activated AMPKα through the cAMP/Epac1 pathway, and that Epac1 knockdown abolished the protective effects of GDF6 against TAC- or PE-induced cardiac hypertrophy in vivo and in vitro. Conclusions: In general, our findings, for the first time, define GDF6 as a negative regulator of cardiac hypertrophy and show that supplementation of GDF6 may be of great therapeutic interest for heart failure.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) and its more severe manifestation, metabolic-associated steatohepatitis (MASH), are intimately linked to disturbances in lipid metabolism. Although downstream signaling pathways of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), including extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and proto-oncogene serine/threonine kinase (RAF1), exhibited heightened activation during MASH progression, their specific roles and underlying mechanisms in driving MASH pathogenesis remain inadequately elucidated.A comprehensive transcriptomic analysis was performed to indentify key genes involved in MAFLD development. Murine models with hepatocyte-specific depletion or overexpression of FAM83A were subjected to either a high-fat diet (HFD) for 8 or 14 weeks to simulate simple steatosis (MAFL) and MASH, respectively, or a choline-deficient high-fat diet (CDAHFD) to accelerate MASH progression.FAM83A, recognized as a downstream effector of EGFR that activates the ERK signaling pathway, was predominantly expressed in hepatoctyes and upregulated during MASH pathogenesis in both animal models and clinical patients. Hepatocyte-specific FAM83A knockout delayed MASH progression and mitigated hepatic inflammation and fibrosis. Conversely, overexpression of FAM83A exacerbated MASH pathology, evidence by increased lipid accumulation, inflammation and fibrosis. Mechanistically, insulin induces transcriptional expression of FAM83A, which physically bound to RAF1, enhancing its phosphorylation and subsequent ERK signaling activation. Furthermore, FAM83A-mediated upregulatation of lipogenic gene expression and lipogenesis was significantly inhibited by the treatment of RAF1 inhibitor sorafenib or ERK inhibitor PD98059.FAM83A promotes MASH pathogenesis by interacting with RAF1 to activate ERK signaling, thereby stimulating fatty acid and cholesterol biosynthesis. Targeting this axis may offer therapeutic potential for MASH and metabolic dyslipidemia.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Currently, gastric cancer clinical biomarkers are susceptible to interference, causing low specificity or sensitivity. Some also fail to reflect molecular heterogeneity and predict prognosis individually, so urgent clinical need exists for new biomarkers. FAM83A is a member of the family with sequence similarity 83 (FAM83) family, which could predict the prognosis of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). However, the relationship between FAM83A and stomach adenocarcinoma (STAD) prognosis remains unclear. Therefore, this study aims to investigate the expression of FAM83A in STAD and its role in predicting prognosis, with the aim of providing novel potential prognostic biomarkers for clinical practice.We obtained The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA)/Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) of 408 STAD patients via the Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis (GEPIA), collected 70 post-radical resection gastric cancer patient samples from Harbin Medical University Cancer Hospital, and retrieved patient information from the hospital's electronic medical record system. Telephone follow-ups were performed bimonthly until overall survival (OS) endpoint or last follow-up date. Tumor recurrence or metastasis was determined through a combination of imaging examinations (e.g., computed tomography), and the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria were used primarily to evaluate treatment response during follow-up. Additionally, Western blot, immunohistochemistry (IHC), SPSS 25.0 and MedCalc 20.1.0 were used to detect the expression of FAM83A and its clinical significance.Seventy post-radical gastrectomy STAD patients were enrolled (56 male, 14 female), including 6 well-, 24 moderately-, and 40 poorly-differentiated cases. According to the pathological tumor node metastasis (pTNM) stage, 3, 15, and 52 patients were in stages I, II, and III, respectively. Western blot of tumor tissues and TCGA/GTEx database analysis revealed FAM83A overexpression in STAD. IHC showed 70% (n=49) of samples had high FAM83A expression, while 30% (n=21) had low expression. Moreover, the expression of FAM83A was associated with pTNM stage (P=0.02) and primary tumor (pT) classification (P=0.001). Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed low FAM83A expression was associated with better OS and disease-free survival (DFS). In addition, Cox univariate analysis revealed high FAM83A expression was associated with poorer OS [hazard ratio (HR) =2.082, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.153-3.761; P=0.02] and DFS (HR =1.814, 95% CI: 1.005-3.276; P=0.048) in STAD patients. Cox multivariate analysis showed that pTNM stage and lymph node metastasis were independent prognostic factors for OS and DFS, respectively. However, FAM83A lost significance for both OS and DFS in multivariate analysis, possibly due to limited sample size or interactions with other covariates.FAM83A may serve as a potential indicator of STAD prognosis, but its clinical application requires further validation in studies with larger sample sizes and prospective designs. Future studies are needed to validate the prognostic value of FAM83A through signaling pathway mechanism research and independent cohort verification.Copyright © 2025 AME Publishing Company. All rights reserved.
Lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC), representing approximately 25% of all lung cancer cases, is the second most prevalent histological subtype. While Family with sequence similarity 83 member A (FAM83A) is recognized as an oncogene across various tumors, its prognostic impact and biological roles specifically in LUSC have yet to be comprehensively elucidated. Our investigation explored the expression variability of the FAM83A gene and its implications for both patient prognosis and immune system modulation, utilizing data sourced from TCGA and the GEO. The scope of this analysis encompassed cohorts comprising 509 patients internally and 225 patients externally, specifically aimed at determining the prognostic significance of FAM83A expression. For methodological rigor, the larger internal cohort was systematically divided, with 60% forming a training set and the remaining 40% constituting a validation set, all assigned randomly. Through multivariate analysis that included clinicopathological factors and FAM83A expression assessed via immunohistochemistry (IHC), we identified key predictors for developing a novel LUSC prognostic model. Both internal and external validation sets utilized ROC curves, calibration curves, and DCA to evaluate the model's precision and clinical applicability. High levels of FAM83A mRNA expression in tumor tissues were linked to unfavourable outcomes for LUSC patients in both the TCGA and GEO datasets. Detailed analyses indicated that this upregulation of FAM83A mRNA is associated with increased immune cell infiltration and higher levels of immune regulatory gene expression. Retrospective analyses of patient samples further validated the relationship between elevated FAM83A protein expression and poorer prognoses. From these multivariate analysis results, we formulated a prognostic model incorporating four independent risk factors: elevated FAM83A expression, male gender, advanced disease stage, and poor differentiation. This model demonstrated strong predictive accuracy, confirmed by ROC and calibration curves, and DCA highlighted its substantial clinical relevance. FAM83A has been validated as a biomarker for forecasting outcomes in LUSC patients, leading to the development of predictive models based on this marker. Furthermore, FAM83A likely contributes to immunomodulatory processes within LUSC tissues.© 2025. The Author(s).
Ferroptosis has been recognized to be pivotal in the pathogenesis of various cardiovascular diseases, yet with poor understanding regarding its involvement in calcific aortic valve disease (CAVD). This study established a connection between iron overload and ferroptosis in CAVD, demonstrating their association with calcification in both aortic valves and human valve interstitial cells (hVICs) cultured in a calcifying medium. An ApoE-/- high-fat diet mouse model and a wire-injury-induced model of CAVD were also employed to examine the in vivo contribution of ferroptosis to valvular calcification. Notably, the application of ferroptosis inhibitors effectively mitigated the progression of CAVD in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, STEAP4 was found to be the primary contributor to iron overload and induction of ferroptosis in calcifying hVICs through a comprehensive analysis of transcriptomes and in vitro cellular experiments. Our investigation also unveiled that REL, a subunit of NF-κB, could enhance STEAP4 expression by binding to its promoter. In summary, targeting the REL/STEAP4 axis, responsible for orchestrating iron overload and ferroptosis, holds promise as a novel therapeutic solution for CAVD.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Bardet-Biedl syndrome is a pleiotropic ciliopathy marked by retinal degeneration, obesity, polydactyly, renal and reproductive anomalies, and cognitive impairment. BBS1, the most frequently mutated gene in Bardet-Biedl syndrome, encodes a key component of the BBSome complex, which is essential for ciliary membrane trafficking. Although BBS1 is known to be essential for proper BBSome function, the effects of disease-associated BBS1 variants on its activity remain incompletely understood.In this study, we examined how patient-derived BBS1 mutations affect BBSome integrity and its role in cargo transport within primary cilia.Our results show that particular BBS1 mutations interfere with distinct stages of BBSome assembly and trafficking. While M390R disrupts initial pre-BBSome assembly at pericentriolar satellites, E224K impairs both the maturation of the pre-BBSome into the BBSome and its movement from pericentriolar satellites to the cilium. In contrast, the R160Q variant preserves BBSome assembly and permits its localization to cilia. It specifically weakens the BBSome-GPCR interaction mediated by TOM1L2, resulting in defective GPR161 export and increased ciliary IFT turnover.Overall, our study establishes a mechanistic framework linking specific BBS1 mutations to distinct defects in BBSome assembly and function. This framework defines functional classes of BBS1 variants and provides deeper insight into the molecular mechanism and severity of Bardet-Biedl syndrome.© 2026. The Author(s).
The aim of the present study is to compare cold adaptation mechanisms between cold-tolerant Hezuo and cold-sensitive Bama pigs.A total of 40 healthy pigs (75 days old), including 20 Hezuo pigs and 20 Bama pigs, were used in this study. A 2×2 factorial design was employed, with factors including breed (Hezuo vs. Bama) and ambient temperature (23±2°C vs. -15±2°C). After 7 days of acclimation, pigs in the cold groups were exposed to low temperature and slaughtered on days 0, 1, 5, and 10 (n = 5 per group per time point). All pigs had ad libitum access to feed and water. Lung histology, wet/dry ratio, oxidative and inflammatory biomarkers, apoptosis, and transcriptomics were analyzed.The results showed that Hezuo pigs displayed less severe alveolar septal thickening, inflammatory infiltration, and fine bronchial fold extension during cold exposure than Bama pigs. The W/D ratio dramatically decreased in Hezuo pigs while rising in Bama pigs. Hezuo pigs exhibited significantly higher aquaporin-1 (AQP-1) and aquaporin-5 (AQP-5) expressions than Bama pigs during the middle and late phases. Bama pigs displayed increased reactive oxygen species, malondialdehyde, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β) and decreased glutathione (GSH) levels. Hezuo pigs maintained stable GSH levels and no significant changes in late-phase inflammatory markers. Bama pigs had a greater apoptosis density and more TUNEL-positive cells than Hezuo pigs, which was related to the down-regulation of B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) and the up-regulation of Bcl2-associated X protein (Bax) and Caspase-3. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that in Bama pigs, distinctive genes such as mucin 5B (MUC5B), matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP9), alveolar macrophage chemotactic factor-II (AMCF-II), interleukin 22 receptor subunit alpha 1 (IL22RA1), C-C motif chemokine ligand 16 (CCL16), SRY-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9), keratin 5 (KRT5) contribute to mucus hypersecretion, extracellular matrix degradation, and sustained inflammatory chemotaxis, worsening tissue damage. In contrast, Hezuo pigs possess unique genes such as aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member A2 (ALDH1A2), acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family member 6 (ACSL6), ACSM5, aldo-keto reductase family 1 member C1 (AKR1C1), nuclear receptor subfamily 4 group A member 3/2 (NR4A3/2), G protein subunit gamma 4 (GNG4), glycogen synthase 2 (GYS2), which enhance lipid metabolism, facilitate aldehyde detoxification, and mitigate oxidative stress, thereby orchestrating a cellular protection.Hezuo pigs exhibit protective molecular mechanisms, suggesting potential targets for cold-resistance breeding.
Exploring targeted therapies for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) remains challenging. Although investigating the roles and therapeutic applications of liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS) is increasingly of interest, its relationship with ESCC remains unclear. After improving the assay for transposase-accessible chromatin using sequencing (ATAC-seq) protocol for limited-amount clinical samples, we unravel transcription factor AP-2 beta (TFAP2β) as a key downregulated transcription factor (TF) through combined chromatin accessibility and gene expression analyses with cancerous and paracancerous tissues from early-stage ESCC patients. TFAP2β undergoes condensation in the nucleus to bind the zinc finger protein 131 (ZNF131) promoter, thereby inhibiting ZNF131 expression and ESCC progression. The other two crucial downregulated TFs uncovered are incorporated into TFAP2β condensates to bind their corresponding target, suggesting that LLPS may be a hallmark of ESCC transcription. In addition, we obtained compound A6 that mediates intrinsically disordered region conformational changes to enhance TFAP2β condensation and specific ESCC suppression in cells, mice, and patient-derived organoids. Thus, we indicate an LLPS-mediated transcriptional mechanism and a potential therapeutic approach for ESCC.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Bladder cancer (BCa) is a prevalent malignancy with high recurrence and metastasis rates. Nuclear receptor subfamily 4 group A member 3 (NR4A3), a member of the orphan nuclear receptor superfamily, is implicated in various cancers, but its functional role and mechanisms in BCa have not been well understood. This study aimed to explore the functional significance and diagnostic value of NR4A3 in BCa, with a focus on its regulation of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and anoikis sensitivity via ATF6 and RNF139.NR4A3 expression in BCa cell lines was assessed by qRT-PCR and Western blot. Gain-of-function assays were performed to evaluate cell proliferation, apoptosis, and anoikis sensitivity in vitro. ER stress markers and ATF6 degradation were examined by immunoblotting, cycloheximide chase, and ubiquitination assays. The role of RNF139 and its regulation by NR4A3 via KLF2 and KLF4 were determined via various biological assays. In vivo tumorigenesis was assessed using a xenograft mouse model. Additionally, the diagnostic performance of NR4A3 was evaluated in 100 clinical patients using serum ELISA and color Doppler ultrasound.NR4A3 was downregulated in BCa cells, and its overexpression suppressed cell proliferation, colony formation and promoted apoptosis and anoikis sensitivity. Mechanistically, NR4A3 inhibited ER stress by promoting ATF6 ubiquitination and degradation via transcriptional activation of RNF139 through KLF2 and KLF4. RNF139 directly interacted with ATF6 and mediated its ubiquitination at lysine 152. In vivo, NR4A3 overexpression inhibited tumor growth. Clinically, combining color Doppler ultrasound with serum NR4A3 levels significantly improved diagnostic accuracy for BCa (AUC = 0.986).NR4A3 suppresses BCa progression via the KLF2/4-RNF139-ATF6 axis and enhances diagnostic efficacy when combined with ultrasound imaging.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) is a rare genetic disorder characterized by a wide range of symptoms and clinical signs. The aim of the current work is to provide a comprehensive overview of the clinical and genetic features of BBS patients, with a focus on ophthalmological manifestations.In a retrospective analysis at the University Eye Hospital Bonn, data from 18 patients with a molecular genetically confirmed diagnosis of BBS were analyzed. In addition to the medical history, clinical examination included multimodal imaging, the collection of functional data and molecular genetic diagnostics.17 patients (17/18; 94%) presented typical retinal changes consistent with retinitis pigmentosa (RP) and 1 patient (1/18; 6%) showed a central cone-rod dystrophy without peripheral changes. In addition, other nonophthalmological symptoms and clinical signs, such as limb abnormalities (9/18; 50%), obesity (7/18; 39%), urogenital tract abnormalities (7/18; 39%) and neurological symptoms (8/18; 44%) were noted. Molecular genetic analyses revealed disease-causing variants in several BBS genes, including the BBS1 (Bardet-Biedl syndrome)1 gene (9), BBS10 (3), BBS7 (1), BBS12 (1) and the MKKS (McKusick-Kaufmann syndrome) gene (2). The average time between the onset of the first ophthalmological symptoms and the final genetic diagnosis was 15 years (median 10 years, range 1-36 years).This study emphasizes the importance of an interdisciplinary approach in the diagnosis and treatment of BBS patients. The clinical heterogeneity of BBS can lead to diagnostic delays. Early diagnosis enables appropriate genetic counseling, monitoring of disease progression, individualized treatment initiation and exploration of potential therapeutic interventions.© 2025. The Author(s).
Sleep deprivation (SD) is a common issue among pregnant women. Maternal SD led to adverse effects on offspring health such as cognitive impairment through dysregulated metabolic pathways. However, it remains unknown whether maternal SD increases the offspring's susceptibility to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) development. Here, we induced maternal SD during pregnancy and observed that maternal SD during pregnancy promoted the development of diet-induced NASH in offspring of both sexes in adulthood, with exacerbation of liver weight gain, hepatic steatosis, fibrosis, and hepatic dysfunction. The primary hepatocytes isolated from SD offspring were also more susceptible to palmitate acid-induced lipotoxic injury. Mechanistically, the detrimental effects of maternal SD were associated with augmented activation of inflammatory and apoptosis pathways in offspring liver tissues, which were attributed to upregulation of the transcription factor nuclear receptor subfamily 4 group A member 3 (NR4A3). The melatonin signalling is reported to be pivotally affected by sleep disturbance both at the circulation and the placenta, and our further analysis revealed that melatonin supplementation during maternal SD normalised NR4A3 expression in offspring liver and alleviated the increased steatohepatitis susceptibility in offspring. Taken together, these results suggest that maternal SD during pregnancy predisposes offspring to NASH development in adulthood via an NR4A3-dependent mechanism, and maternal melatonin supplementation may hold promise for improving liver health in the offspring.© 2025 The Author(s). Cell Proliferation published by Beijing Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41017725
Orbital fibroblast proliferation and activation contribute to the development of thyroid-associated ophthalmopathy (TAO). In this study, nuclear receptor subfamily 4 group A member 3 (NR4A3) was predicted to play a role in TAO based on bioinformatics analysis. Validation of NR4A3 expression in human TAO orbital samples confirmed its elevated levels compared to normal controls. In vitro studies demonstrated that transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-β1)-induced NR4A3 expression in human TAO orbital fibroblasts (OFs) enhanced cell viability, DNA synthesis, and fibrotic marker expression. Conversely, NR4A3 knockdown inhibited these fibrotic responses, suggesting a pro-fibrotic role for NR4A3 in TAO. In vivo experiments further validated these findings, with NR4A3 knockdown in a TAO mouse model leading to reduced pathological injury and fibrosis in orbital tissues. In addition, NR4A3 knockdown decreased the expression of fibrotic markers in the orbital tissues of TAO mice, corroborating the in vitro results. Finally, NR4A3 was shown to modulate the nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) pathway, which is activated in TAO. NR4A3 overexpression enhanced, while its knockdown suppressed, NF-κB activation in both human TAO OFs and orbital tissues from TAO mice. These findings suggest that NR4A3 promotes TAO progression through its pro-fibrotic effects and activation of NF-κB signaling, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target for TAO. Collectively, NR4A3 plays a pivotal regulatory role in both fibroblast proliferation and the fibrotic response in TAO, acting through mechanisms involving the NF-κB signaling pathway. Its ability to enhance TGF-β1-induced changes and activate NF-κB underscores its potential as a key therapeutic target for addressing the complex pathophysiology of TAO.
Breast acinar cell carcinoma (AciCC) is a rare breast cancer subtype that exhibits morphological similarities to salivary gland AciCC. However, the molecular profile of breast AciCC differs significantly from that of salivary gland AciCC, suggesting that they may not be related. Whether breast AciCC represents a distinct breast cancer subtype remains controversial.This study analysed two groups of breast AciCCs. Using comprehensive morphological, immunohistochemical, fluorescence in situ hybridisation and next-generation sequencing analyses, we elucidated the similarities and differences between these two distinct types of 'breast AciCCs' and their salivary gland counterpart. The first, based on morphological and immunohistochemical features, satisfied the 2019 World Health Organization diagnostic criteria for breast AciCC. Notably, NR4A3, a specific marker for salivary gland AciCC, was not expressed in these cases. We propose designating this tumour type as 'carcinoma with acinar cell differentiation'. In contrast, the second group included a case of AciCC in situ, which demonstrated morphological, immunohistochemical and molecular features identical to those of salivary gland AciCC, including NR4A3 protein overexpression and NR4A3 gene rearrangement. This case was considered a precursor of true salivary gland-type AciCC originating in the breast.This study provides new insights into breast AciCC nomenclature: the widely recognised AciCC name, 'carcinoma with acinar cell differentiation' might be more appropriate. Although true salivary gland-type AciCC requires additional cases for confirmation, our case has clarified that true salivary gland-type AciCC can indeed exist in the breast.© 2025 The Author(s). Histopathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The use of cannabinoid has been implicated in the treatment of various skin disorders with obscure mechanism of action. This study aimed to investigate the physiological roles of GPR55 in regenerating skin wounds and protecting keratinocyte apoptosis induced by UVB radiation. Here, we found that O1602, a GPR55 agonist, accelerated wound healing in keratinocyte-like HaCaT cells, and this effect was suppressed by pretreatment with inhibitors of protein kinase A (PKA), AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), sirtuin-1 (SIRT-1), and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). Although O1602 treatment promoted keratinocyte proliferation in HaCaT cell line but its proliferative effect did not contribute to enhancing wound healing. Indeed, O1602 upregulated expression of MMP-9, suggesting the stimulation of cell migration. O1602 treatment protected against UVB-induced keratinocyte apoptosis, and this effect was abolished by pretreatment with inhibitors belonging to the same class as that which suppressed the wound-healing response. Furthermore, western blotting analyses revealed that O1602 treatment induced AMPK phosphorylation, and this effect was inhibited by pretreatment of PKA inhibitor. Moreover, O1602 promoted ERK phosphorylation, and this effect was aborted by pretreatment of either AMPK inhibitor or SIRT-1 inhibitor. Enzymatic activation of SIRT-1 induced by O1602 was absent in AMPK inhibitor-pretreated HaCaT cells. Altogether, GPR55 mediates keratinocyte regeneration and exhibits its protective effect against UVB exposure via PKA/AMPK/SIRT-1/ERK-dependent mechanism.
Chronic morphine consumption induces oxidative stress and renal dysfunction, effects that may be exacerbated by aging-related declines in adaptive capacity. Regular endurance exercise enhances antioxidant defense and mitochondrial regulation; however, its ability to counteract morphine-induced renal alterations across different stages of aging remains insufficiently characterized.Male wistar rats, categorized as young and aged based on chronological age and body weight, were allocated to control, morphine, exercise, and morphine plus exercise groups within each age category. Morphine was administered via drinking water for four weeks. Concurrently, animals in the exercise groups performed moderate-intensity continuous training on a treadmill. At study completion, serum and renal tissues were collected for assessment of oxidative stress markers (MDA, TAC, SOD), MPO, renal function indices (BUN and creatinine), and renal expression of sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) and Klotho, Mitochondrial compatibility markers (Citrate synthase activity and TFAM).Chronic morphine exposure was associated with increased oxidative stress markers and decreased antioxidant capacity in kidney tissue, and simultaneously increased serum urea and creatinine levels in young and old mice, indicating impaired renal functional status. Chronic morphine administration also decreased SIRT1 and Klotho levels in young and old animals. In contrast, 4 weeks of endurance training improved markers of mitochondrial adaptation, oxidative balance, and renal function, which were associated with increased expression of SIRT1 and Klotho in kidney tissue. These changes could indicate a potential link between exercise training and molecular pathways involved in the regulation of oxidative stress and renal homeostasis. However, these findings suggest an association, and causal or mechanistic interpretations will require further investigation in future studies.These findings indicate that endurance training is associated with more favorable renal biomarker profiles in the context of chronic opioid exposure.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Effective psychotherapeutic interventions for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) rely on fear extinction to suppress maladaptive fear responses, yet their long-term efficacy is limited by high relapse rates. Notably, extinction involves not only fear inhibition but also affective engagement. However, whether and how internal affective components contribute to extinction retrieval and long-term persistence remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that positive affective experiences arising during extinction govern the long-term persistence of extinction and resistance to spontaneous recovery. We identify a subpopulation of medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) extinction neurons projecting to supramammillary nucleus glutamatergic (SuMGlu) neurons that encodes positive affective experience during extinction and selectively governs long-term extinction persistence. This ensemble is spatially, anatomically, and transcriptionally distinct from mPFC extinction neurons projecting to zona incerta somatostatin-expressing (ZISST) neurons, which primarily support extinction retrieval. Transcriptomic profiling reveals enrichment of sirtuin 1 (Sirt1) within SuM-projecting extinction ensembles, and bidirectional manipulation of SIRT1 alters extinction relapse vulnerability in a PTSD mouse model. These findings provide a cortical-hypothalamic framework incorporating molecular features that governs the long-term persistence of fear extinction and resistance to relapse through positive affective processes.
Nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN), a key precursor of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+), has recently emerged as a promising therapeutic candidate for age-related diseases. This review critically evaluates preclinical evidence regarding the effects of NMN on ovarian health, with particular emphasis on its potential to attenuate ovarian aging, improve follicular reserve, and restore endocrine function. Animal studies have demonstrated that NMN supplementation enhances mitochondrial function, reduces oxidative stress, and modulates sirtuin activity in ovarian tissue. These effects contributed to improved oocyte quality, delayed ovarian senescence, and prolonged reproductive lifespan. In models of chemotherapy-induced ovarian insufficiency and age-related ovarian decline, NMN administration was associated with increased folliculogenesis and normalization of hormonal profiles. Furthermore, the anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic properties of NMN suggest potential therapeutic applications in conditions such as premature ovarian insufficiency and polycystic ovary syndrome. Despite encouraging findings in rodent models, clinical translation remains limited. This review summarizes the key molecular pathways influenced by NMN, including the NAD+/sirtuin-1 (SIRT1) axis, and highlights important gaps in current knowledge. Collectively, the available evidence underscores the therapeutic potential of NMN while emphasizing the need for well-designed human studies to establish its efficacy and safety in reproductive medicine.
SIRT1 (sirtuin-1) regulates various cellular and metabolic processes in the vasculature. SIRT1 is an NAD+-dependent deacetylase that deacetylates transcription factors that control vascular inflammation and remodeling. Given that pathways regulated by SIRT1 are implicated in the pathophysiology of intracranial aneurysms, we hypothesized that activation and overexpression of SIRT1 prevent aneurysm rupture by suppressing vascular inflammation.Intracranial aneurysms were induced in mice by systemic hypertension and a single intracisternal injection of elastase. We analyzed the expression of SIRT1 in human and mouse aneurysms. We investigated the role of SIRT1 in aneurysm rupture using genetic overexpression of SIRT1 and cell-specific deletion in the endothelial, vascular smooth muscle, and myeloid lineages. We administered a SIRT1 activator and a SIRT1 inhibitor to assess the rupture rate and mRNA expression in cerebral arteries.SIRT1 expression was significantly lower in intracranial aneurysm tissues than in control cerebral arteries in mice, with a similar trend in human aneurysms. Global overexpression of SIRT1 significantly decreased the rupture rate. Endothelial SIRT1 deletion increased the rupture rate, with no effect observed in other cell types. Inhibition of SIRT1 increased the rupture rate, whereas SIRT1 activation reduced the rupture rate and suppressed mRNA expression of proinflammatory cytokines in cerebral arteries.Our findings support a protective role of SIRT1 against intracranial aneurysm rupture in mice, with endothelial SIRT1 playing an important role in aneurysm stabilization. Pharmacological SIRT1 activation reduced aneurysm rupture and was associated with reduced vascular inflammation, providing a preclinical rationale for further investigation of SIRT1-related pathways.
Women with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) are more likely to develop cardiovascular disease (CVD) within 3 to 10 years following pregnancy. Despite a return to normoglycemia shortly after gestation, GDM mothers still possess an increased risk of future CVD. In this study, we use a novel preclinical hormonal model of GDM to examine the mechanisms underlying future vascular and cardiac dysfunction in mothers with a history of GDM. We treated 16-week-old pregnant C57BL/6J mice with the insulin receptor antagonist (S961; 30nmol/kg, s.c.) from gestational day (GD) 7 (second trimester of pregnancy) until delivery to induce GDM. GDM mice developed systolic and diastolic dysfunction, arterial stiffness, hypertension, increased cardiac mass, and exercise intolerance at 10 weeks postpartum compared with saline-treated pregnant or S961-treated virgin mice. We also observed decreased plasma nitric oxide (NO) and increased endothelin-1 (ET-1) in GDM. The aorta of S961-induced GDM mice had increased pulse wave velocity, impaired vascular relaxation, remodeling, elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and adhesion molecules, increased ET-1 type A receptor expression, and reduced sirtuin-1 (SIRT-1) expression. The left ventricle of S961-induced GDM mice exhibited fibrosis, thickness, and increased ROS production. Additionally, alterations in cardiac kinase activity in the nitric oxide/cyclic guanosine monophosphate/protein kinase G (NO/cGMP/PRKG) and AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) alpha pathways were observed at 10 weeks postpartum using novel Pamgene kinome technology. Thus, endothelin activation, suppressed NO/cGMP/PRKG signaling, impaired AMPK, and altered SIRT1 may be responsible for the development of vascular stiffness and cardiac dysfunction in mothers with a history of GDM.
Mammarenaviruses (MaAv) cause persistent infections in diverse rodent reservoirs worldwide and several are zoonotic pathogens with an important public-health burden in their endemic regions. Moreover, the globally distributed MaAv lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) is an underrecognized pathogen of clinical significance in congenital infections and immunocompromised individuals. The lack of FDA-approved vaccines or antivirals for MaAv infections underscores the urgent need for novel anti-MaAv therapeutic strategies. Neutral sphingomyelinase 2 (nSMase2) was recently identified as a host factor contributing to LCMV multiplication, and its inhibitor cambinol exhibits dose-dependent antiviral activity against LCMV but the underlying mechanisms remain undefined. Here, we show that cambinol disrupts multiple stages of the LCMV life cycle. Cambinol inhibits the pH-dependent fusion event mediated by MaAv glycoprotein, a step required for completion of virus cell entry. It also reduces viral ribonucleoprotein (vRNP)-directed genome replication and transcription and impairs the budding activity of the virus matrix Z protein. Cambinol also inhibits sirtuins 1 and 2 (Sirt-1 and Sirt-2), two NAD + -dependent protein deacetylases with pleiotropic roles in cellular metabolism and stress responses, raising the question of whether cambinol anti-LCMV activity reflects nSMase2 inhibition alone or also involves sirtuin-dependent pathways. LCMV multiplication was significantly reduced in SIRT1, but not SIRT2, knockout (KO) cells, uncovering a pro-viral role for Sirt-1 in the LCMV life cycle. Consistent with this finding, LCMV vRNP activity and production of infectious progeny were reduced in SIRT1 KO cells. These findings identify Sirt-1 as a host factor required for optimal LCMV multiplication. Sirt-1 inhibitors are in clinical development for oncological and neurological indications, raising the possibility of repurposing Sirt-1 inhibitors as host-directed antivirals (HDAs) against human pathogenic MaAv.
Background/Objectives: Various pathophysiological mechanisms play a role in the development of cardiovascular diseases (CVDs). There is a need for new biomarkers that can complement existing clinical findings, particularly in the early diagnosis and prognostic assessment of coronary artery disease (CAD) and that can also contribute to more effective management of the diagnosis and treatment process. Therefore, both blood and pericardial fluid samples can provide important diagnostic information. This study aims to investigate Stromal Cell-Derived Factor 4 (SDF4) levels and thiol/disulfide homeostasis in the blood and pericardial fluid of patients with established CAD undergoing open-heart surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), in order to better characterize oxidative stress-related and redox-mediated pathophysiological processes associated with the development and progression of coronary heart disease. Comparisons with a healthy control group were performed to elucidate disease-related biochemical alterations rather than to propose these markers as diagnostic tools for CAD. Methods: In this study, intraoperatively collected venous blood and pericardial fluid samples from 45 patients undergoing on-pump coronary artery bypass grafting were analyzed. SDF4 levels were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), while thiol-disulfide homeostasis was assessed via spectrophotometric analysis. Results: The study revealed statistically significant differences in parameters such as SDF-4, native thiol, total thiol, disulfide, and disulfide/total thiol ratio among the control, patient serum, and pericardial fluid groups (p < 0.05). Notably, SDF-4 and disulfide levels were elevated, while thiol levels were reduced in the pericardial fluid group, suggesting increased oxidative stress and disrupted redox balance. Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and Variable Importance in Projection (VIP) analyses successfully demonstrated the discriminative power of these parameters among the groups. Conclusions: The increased SDF-4 levels and disturbances in the thiol-disulfide balance observed in this study indicate elevated oxidative stress and impaired cellular redox homeostasis in CAD. These findings suggest that SDF-4 and thiol-disulfide parameters may serve as important biochemical markers in the pathophysiology of CVD and hold potential as diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers.
Sustained activation of the spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) arrests cells in mitosis, resulting in mitotic cell death; therefore, SAC-activating drugs have been developed and clinically used as anti-cancer agents. However, some mitotic cells exhibit mitotic slippage, an event of mitotic exit without SAC satisfaction, and less sensitivity to these drugs. For developing efficient anti-cancer therapy, it is required to reveal the mechanism underlying the cell fate determination between cell death and mitotic slippage. In this study, we found that oxysterol-binding protein-like 11 (OSBPL11) is important for cell fate determination during mitotic arrest. OSBPL11 knockdown accelerates mitotic slippage and instead represses cell death during mitotic arrest by treatment with the Eg5 inhibitor S-trityl-l-cysteine (STLC), although the duration from mitotic entry to slippage or death is not altered. OSBPL11 knockdown exhibits a similar phenotype in paclitaxel-treated cells. Cyclin B1 levels are decreased in OSBPL11-knockdown mitotic cells. Treatment with the APC/C inhibitor proTAME mitigates both the decrease in the cyclin B1 levels and the acceleration of mitotic slippage caused by OSBPL11 knockdown. Although the OSBPL11 wild type could mitigate the acceleration of mitotic slippage and the repression of cell death induced by OSBPL11 knockdown, mutants lacking the lipid transport and lipid binding activities could not. Furthermore, OSBPL11 knockdown promotes survival upon STLC and paclitaxel treatments. These results suggest that OSBPL11 represses mitotic slippage and accelerates cell death during mitotic arrest in a manner dependent on both lipid transport and lipid binding activities, promoting the cytotoxic effect of SAC-activating drugs.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Uridine phosphorylase 1 (UPP1) has been shown to catalyze the generation of ribose derived from uridine, to promote central carbon metabolism, and to collaborate with glucose to drive aerobic glycolysis in tumor cells, thereby playing an oncogenic role in several cancers. However, its correlation with the onset and progression of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) has not been explored. We revealed that UPP1 was highly expressed in ESCC, and that loss of UPP1 impaired the malignancy of ESCC cells in vitro and in vivo. We found that silencing methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3) reduced m6A modification in the 3'-untranslated regions (3'UTR) of Krüppel-like factor 5 (KLF5), which decreased its interaction with YTH N6-Methyladenosine RNA Binding Protein C1 (YTHDC1), and subsequently upregulated the expression of KLF5 by reducing its precursor mRNA (pre-mRNA) levels in ESCC cells. Further study revealed that KLF5 negatively regulated the expression of UPP1 through transcriptional modulation. Our findings establish that the dysregulation of UPP1 in ESCC is modulated by METTL3 in an m6A-YTHDC1-KLF5-mediated manner, indicating a potential therapeutic target for ESCC.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study explores the relationship between oxidative - antioxidative balance and stromal cell-derived factor-4 (SDF-4) levels in individuals with Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD), aiming to clarify their roles in the disorder's pathophysiology. By examining these biomarkers, the research investigates whether oxidative stress mechanisms contribute to GAD. A cross-sectional study was conducted with 43 GAD patients and 40 age- and sex-matched healthy controls. Participants were assessed using the Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI) and the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-5. Serum levels of SDF-4, total antioxidant status (TAS), total oxidant status (TOS), and oxidative stress index (OSI) were measured. GAD patients showed significantly higher levels of SDF-4, TAS, TOS, and OSI compared to controls (p < 0.001). No significant differences were found in other hematological parameters. In the GAD group, SDF-4 levels were not significantly correlated with anxiety severity or oxidative markers. ROC analysis indicated good diagnostic performance of SDF-4 for GAD (AUC = 0.870). The findings suggest that oxidative - antioxidative imbalance and elevated SDF-4 levels may play a role in GAD. SDF-4 might represent a compensatory response to oxidative stress. Elevated TAS levels may indicate enhanced antioxidant defense. Further studies are needed to clarify the mechanistic and therapeutic implications.
Methyltransferase 3 (METTL3) is dysregulated in various brain disorders. This study aimed to investigate the roles of METTL3 in cerebral ischemia and reperfusion (I/R) injury. Oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R) was used to establish an in vitro cerebral I/R injury model. mRNA levels were detected by reverse transcription-quantitative PCR. Protein expression was detected by Western blot. Mitochondrial function was detected by immunofluorescence, mitochondrial superoxide (Mitosox) staining, and JC-1 staining. Mitochondrial morphology was detected by transmission electron microscopy. N6-methyladenosine (m6A) levels were detected by m6A assay. The m6A site was verified by luciferase assay. Cellular functions were detected using Cell Counting Kit 8 and propidium iodide staining assays. We found that METTL3 was upregulated in in vitro cerebral I/R injury model. However, inhibition of METTL3 inhibited OGD/R-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and neuronal ferroptosis. Moreover, METTL3 interacted with YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA binding protein C1 (YTHDC1) to promote m6A modification of solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11), inhibiting its mRNA and protein stability. Additionally, SLC7A11 knockdown mediated mitochondrial dysfunction and neuronal ferroptosis. In conclusion, METTL3 mediates the progression of cerebral I/R injury through regulating SLC7A11. Therefore, targeting METTL3/YTHDC1/SLC7A11 axis may provide a novel strategy for cerebral I/R injury.
Sperm flagellum defects are tightly associated with male infertility. Centriolar satellites are small multiprotein complexes that recruit satellite proteins to the centrosome and play an essential role in sperm flagellum biogenesis, but the precise mechanisms underlying this role remain unclear. Serologically defined colon cancer autoantigen protein 8 (SDCCAG8), which encodes a protein containing eight coiled-coil (CC) domains, has been associated with syndromic ciliopathies and male infertility. However, its exact role in male infertility remains undefined. Here, we used an Sdccag8 mutant mouse carrying a CC domains 5-8 truncated mutation (c.1351-1352insG p.E451GfsX467) that models the mutation causing Senior-Løken syndrome (c.1339-1340insG p.E447GfsX463) in humans. The homozygous Sdccag8 mutant mice exhibit male infertility characterized by multiple morphological abnormalities of the flagella (MMAF) and dysmorphic structures in the sperm manchette. A mechanistic study revealed that the SDCCAG8 protein is localized to the manchette and centrosomal region and interacts with PCM1, the scaffold protein of centriolar satellites, through its CC domains 5-7. The absence of the CC domains 5-7 in mutant spermatids destabilizes PCM1, which fails to recruit satellite components such as Bardet-Biedl syndrome 4 (BBS4) and centrosomal protein of 131 kDa (CEP131) to satellites, resulting in defective sperm flagellum biogenesis, as BBS4 and CEP131 are essential to flagellum biogenesis. In conclusion, this study reveals the central role of SDCCAG8 in maintaining centriolar satellite integrity during sperm flagellum biogenesis.
Vitamin D deficiency is prevalent in Africa, but its genetic determinants are understudied. We report a genome-wide analysis of 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) concentrations in 3670 children from five countries across Africa with replication in four diaspora African ancestry populations (n=21,610). We identify a previously unreported locus at genome-wide significance in West African populations: OSBPL11 (Oxysterol Binding Protein Like 11, lead variant, rs2979356, p=8.01 × 10-9). In vitro and molecular docking assays showed that OSBPL11 is a vitamin D binding protein likely involved in the intracellular binding of vitamin D metabolites. OSBPL11 knockdown mice have increased fat, reduced triglycerides and improved glucose tolerance, and rs2979356 was associated with cardiometabolic health in adults of African ancestry. We also identify previously reported loci determining vitamin D status. Our study advances understanding of vitamin D genetics in Africa and indicates a novel function for OSBPL11 in intracellular binding and transport of vitamin D metabolites.
Retinal neovascularization (RNV) disease is one of the leading causes of blindness, yet the molecular underpinnings of this condition are not well understood. To delve into the critical aspects of cell-mediated angiogenesis, we analyzed our previously published single-cell data. Our analysis revealed that retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) cells serve a crucial promotional function in angiogenesis. RPE cells were regulated by N6-methyladenosine (m6A). Next, we detected several critical m6A methylase in hypoxic ARPE-19 cells and in oxygen-induced retinopathy (OIR) mice, our results revealed a significant decrease in the level of methyltransferase like 3 (METTL3). METTL3 specific inhibitor STM2457 intravitreal injection or METTL3 conditional knockout mice both showed a significantly reduced neovascularization area of retina. Additionally, the angiogenesis-related abilities of human retinal endothelial cells (HRECs) were diminished after co-cultured with ARPE-19 treated with STM2457 or sh-METTL3 in vitro. Furthermore, through the integration of Methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP) sequencing and RNA sequencing, we discovered that the metabolic enzyme quinolinate phosphoribosyltransferase (QPRT) was directly modified by METTL3 and recognized by the YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA binding protein C1 (YTHDC1). Moreover, after over-expressing QPRT, the angiogenic abilities of HRECs were improved through the phosphorylated phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (p-PI3K)/ phosphorylated threonine kinase (p-AKT) pathway. Collectively, our study provided a novel therapeutic target for retinal angiogenesis.© 2024. The Author(s).
The development of mammalian skeletal muscle is a highly complex process involving multiple molecular interactions. As a prevalent RNA modification, N6-methyladenosine (m6A) regulates the expression of target genes to affect mammalian development. Nevertheless, it remains unclear how m6A participates in the development of goat muscle. In this study, methyltransferase 3 (METTL3) was significantly enriched in goat longissimus dorsi (LD) tissue. In addition, the global m6A modification level and differentiation of skeletal muscle satellite cells (MuSCs) were regulated by METTL3. By performing mRNA-seq analysis, 8050 candidate genes exhibited significant changes in expression level after the knockdown of METTL3 in MuSCs. Additionally, methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing (MeRIP-seq) illustrated that myocyte enhancer factor 2c (MEF2C) mRNA contained m6A modification. Further experiments demonstrated that METTL3 enhanced the differentiation of MuSCs by upregulating m6A levels and expression of MEF2C. Moreover, the m6A reader YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA binding protein C1 (YTHDC1) was bound and stabilized to MEF2C mRNA. The present study reveals that METTL3 enhances myogenic differentiation in MuSCs by regulating MEF2C and provides evidence of a post-transcriptional mechanism in the development of goat skeletal muscle.
There is a need for serum diagnostic biomarkers to improve the prognosis of solid malignant tumors. Here, we conducted a single-institutional study to evaluate the diagnostic performance of serum stromal cell-derived factor 4 (SDF4) levels in cancer patients. Serum samples were collected from a total of 582 patients with solid cancers including gastric cancer (GC) and 80 healthy volunteers. SDF4 protein levels in sera, and conditioned media or lysates of human GC cell lines were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and those in GC tissue by immunohistochemistry. Serum SDF4 levels were higher in patients with cancer than the healthy control in all cancer type. Regarding GC, serum SDF4 levels distinguished healthy controls from GC patients with the area under the curve value of 0.973, sensitivity of 89%, and specificity of 99%. Serum SDF4 levels were significantly elevated in patient with early stage GC. In immunohistochemistry, the frequency of SDF4-positive GC tumors did not vary significantly between GC stages. The ability of human GC cell lines to both produce and secrete SDF4 was confirmed in vitro. In conclusion, serum SDF4 levels could be a promising candidate for a novel diagnostic biomarker for GC and other malignancies.© 2023. Springer Nature Limited.
Feed efficiency (FE) is important in the poultry industry because feed accounts for 70% of total poultry production expenses. The elongation of very-long-chain fatty acid protein 2 (ELOVL2) and oxysterol binding protein-like 8 (OSBPL8) genes are promising candidates for influencing FE owing to their potential roles in lipid metabolism. The genetic effects by which ELOVL2 and OSBPL8 influence FE remain unclear. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the associations between SNPs in OSBPL8 and ELOVL2 and FE traits in meat-type ducks. Genomic DNA was extracted from 505 ducks for primer design, PCR amplification, and target gene sequencing. Polymorphism analysis identified two SNPs in OSBPL8 (g.40194710T > A and g.40194759A > G) and two in ELOVL2 (g.95803706 G > A and g.95803927 G > A). Both ELOVL2 SNPs were significantly associated with feed conversion ratio (FCR), residual feed intake (RFI) (P < 0.01), and ADFI (P < 0.05). For OSBPL8, the g.40194710T > A locus was associated with FCR and ADFI (P < 0.05), whereas the g.40194759A > G locus was associated with RFI (P < 0.05). Notably, combined genotype analysis indicated that the AAAATAAG genotype exhibited lower FCR and RFI values than the other genotype combinations (P < 0.05). In conclusion, polymorphisms in OSBPL8 and ELOVL2 are significantly associated with FE traits in meat-type ducks, offering valuable molecular markers for selecting breeding pairs with enhanced feed utilization ability.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Lipophagy, a selective form of macroautophagy/autophagy, degrades lipid droplets (LDs) to provide energy and is implicated in metabolic disorders. The molecular mechanism underlying lipophagy induction remains incompletely understood. This study explored the role of SETDB1 in starvation-induced autophagy and lipophagy. We demonstrate that SETDB1 deficiency exacerbates starvation-induced hepatic lipid accumulation by inhibiting lipophagy. Mechanistically, starvation promotes ATM-mediated phosphorylation of SETDB1, which enhances its interaction with and methylation of the RNA helicase DDX5. In SETDB1-knockout hepatocytes, hypomethylation of DDX5 facilitates the formation of the DDX5-METTL3-METTL14 complex, increasing m6A modification of BECN1 and TFEB mRNAs. This modification promoted YTHDF2-mediated decay of these transcripts, thereby inhibiting starvation-induced autophagy and lipophagy. Furthermore, administration of the SETDB1 activator (R, R)-59 significantly enhances lipophagy and attenuates starvation-induced hepatic steatosis. Collectively, our findings reveal a novel pathway in which SETDB1 deficiency drives m6A-mediated mRNA degradation to suppress lipophagy, thereby contributing to hepatic steatosis.Abbreviations: AA free: amino acid deprivation; ATG14: autophagy related 14; ATG5: autophagy related 5; ATG7: autophagy related 7; ATM: ATM serine/threonine kinase; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; DDX5: DEAD-box helicase 5; FASN: fatty acid synthase; LAMP1: lysosome associated membrane protein 1; LAMP2A: lysosome associated membrane protein 2A; LIPE/HSL: lipase E, hormone sensitive type; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MAP3K5/ASK1: mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 5; METTL3: methyltransferase 3, N6-adenosine-methyltransferase complex catalytic subunit; METTL14: methyltransferase 14, N6-adenosine-methyltransferase non-catalytic subunit; MGLL/MGL: monoglyceride lipase; OA: oleic acid; OSBPL8/ORP8: oxysterol binding protein like 8; PLIN2: perilipin 2; PNPLA2/ATGL: patatin like domain 2, triacylglycerol lipase; SETDB1: SET domain bifurcated histone lysine methyltransferase 1; TFEB: transcription factor EB; TP53/p53: tumor protein p53; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; YTHDF2: YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA binding protein F2.
Dysfunction of the neuronal macroautophagy/autophagy-lysosome system is a critical contributor to neuronal death following spinal cord injury (SCI), but the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Our study demonstrated that SCI induced impaired autophagic flux and lysosomal membrane permeabilization (LMP) in neurons. By combining in vivo bulk RNA sequencing with validation experiments, we observed the transient upregulation of the membrane repair factor PI4K2A, which was specifically enriched in lysosomes, after SCI. Crucially, ER-MS and IP-MS analyses revealed an interaction between PI4K2A and the endoplasmic reticulum lipid transfer protein OSBPL6/ORP6. This interaction led to the transport of phosphatidylserine (PS) to damaged lysosomal membranes, promoting LMP repair and subsequently reducing lipid droplet accumulation, which suppressed neuronal death. Furthermore, overexpression of neuronal PI4K2A in vivo, through an OSBPL6- and PS-dependent mechanism, reduced LMP-mediated lipid droplet accumulation and increased neuronal survival, thereby improving functional recovery after SCI. Collectively, our findings establish the PI4K2A-OSBPL6/ORP6-PS axis as a novel and essential mechanism for lysosomal membrane repair in neurons. This pathway is crucial for maintaining neuronal lipid homeostasis and represents a promising therapeutic target for reducing neuronal loss and improving functional recovery after central nervous system trauma.Abbreviations: AIF1/IBA1: allograft inflammatory factor 1; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; BMS: Basso Mouse Scale; CNS: central nervous system; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; DEGs: differentially expressed genes; DS5: DS55980254; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complex required for transport; GFP: green fluorescent protein; HSPA5/GRP78: heat shock protein family A (HSP70) member 5; HT22: hippocampal neuronal cell line; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; LD: lipid droplet; LC-MS: liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; LGALS3/GAL3: lectin, galactoside binding, soluble 3; LLOMe: L-leucyl-L-leucine methyl ester; LMP: lysosomal membrane permeabilization; LPC: lysophosphatidylcholine; LPE: lysophosphatidylethanolamine; MFGE8/lactadherin: milk fat globule EGF and factor V/VIII domain containing; MS: mass spectrometry; NAGLU: alpha-N-acetylglucosaminidase (Sanfilippo disease IIIB); NEFH/NF200: neurofilament, heavy polypeptide; OSBPL6/ORP6: oxysterol binding protein-like 6; OSBPL8/ORP8: oxysterol binding protein-like 8; PC: phosphatidylcholine; PLA2G4A/cPLA2: phospholipase A2, group IVA (cytosolic, calcium dependent); PITT: phosphoinositide-initiated membrane tethering and lipid transport; PI4K2A: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase type 2 alpha; PLS-DA: partial least squares discriminant analysis; PS: phosphatidylserine; PtdIns: phosphatidylinositol; PTDSS1: phosphatidylserine synthase 1; PUFAs: polyunsaturated fatty acids; RBFOX3/NeuN: RNA binding protein, fox-1 homolog (C. elegans) 3; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SCI: spinal cord injury; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TGs: triglycerides.
Membrane protein TMEM120A (also known as TACAN) was presumed to be both a mechanically activated molecule and a lipid-modifying enzyme. TMEM120A has been identified as a negative regulator of the essential excitatory mechanosensitive protein PIEZO2. However, the extent to which TMEM120A mediates PIEZO2's activity during physiological processes remains largely unknown. In this study, we used the Caenorhabditis elegans reproductive tract to explore the functional contribution of tmem-120, the sole TMEM120A/B ortholog, and its genetic interaction with pezo-1 in vivo. tmem-120 was expressed throughout the C. elegans development, particularly in the germline, embryos, and spermatheca. A tmem-120 mutant with a full-length deletion (tmem-120Δ) displayed deformed germline, maternal sterility, and a reduced brood size. In vivo live imaging revealed that pinched zygotes were frequently observed in the uterus of tmem-120Δ mutant animals, suggesting damage during spermathecal contraction. We then employed the auxin-inducible degradation system to degrade TMEM-120 protein in all somatic tissues or the germline, both of which resulted in reduced brood sizes. These findings suggested that multiple inputs of tmem-120 from different tissues regulate reproduction. Lastly, the loss of tmem-120 alleviated the brood size reduction and defective sperm navigation behavior in the pezo-1Δ mutant. Overall, our findings reveal a role for tmem-120 in regulating reproductive physiology in C. elegans, and suggest an epistatic interaction between pezo-1 and tmem-120 when governing proper reproduction.© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Genetics Society of America.
Skipped: PubMed ID 37700498 is a review article
Low-fat diets are widely promoted as health-protective; however, the consequences of removing sucrose within a low-fat dietary framework remain unclear. Here, we investigated the effects of a sucrose-free low-fat diet (SF-LFD) compared with a sucrose-containing low-fat control diet (C-LFD) in mice (n=6/group) over 16 weeks. Despite unchanged body and liver weights, SF-LFD feeding resulted in impaired glucose tolerance, reduced insulin sensitivity, and broad alterations in circulating metabolic hormones, including elevated C-peptide, incretins, ghrelin, and resistin, as well as reduced fasting insulin. 16S rRNA sequencing revealed that SF-LFD markedly disrupted gut microbial diversity and composition, with depletion of short-chain fatty acid-producing commensals, including Lactobacillus murinus and members of the Lachnospiraceae family, and enrichment of taxa associated with inflammatory or stress-adapted states, including Helicobacter ganmani, Odoribacter splanchnicus, and Alistipes species. This dysbiosis was accompanied by pronounced colonic inflammation characterized by crypt architectural disruption, loss of goblet cells, submucosal expansion, increased CD3+ T-cell and F4/80+ macrophage infiltration, and robust upregulation of inflammatory mediators, including Il1b, Il6, Ccl2, Rorγt, and Tbx21. SF-LFD feeding induced hepatic microvesicular steatosis, lobular inflammation, recruitment of F4/80+ and CD11c+ immune cells and increased hepatic expression of IL1b and IL6. Together, these findings suggest that sucrose elimination from a low-fat diet disrupts gut microbiota, impairs metabolic homeostasis, and promotes gut and liver inflammation, revealing an unrecognized dietary trigger of metabolic dysfunction.Copyright © 2026 Almansour, Kochumon, Al-Rashed, Malik, Benobaid, Shenouda, Thomas, Arefanian, Nizam, Jacob, Al Madhoun, Tuomilehto, Al-Mulla and Ahmad.
Affective disorders often co-occur with behavioral risk factors like smoking, and chronic metabolic disorders like obesity or type 2 diabetes. One possible regulation factor in these comorbidities could be resistin, an adipokine involved in inflammation and insulin resistance. Here, we investigate these factors in depressed patients, in a sex-sensitive approach.We assessed depression symptoms in a sex-balanced cohort using the Beck Depression Inventory-II and the Male Depression Risk Scale. We further evaluated smoking behavior using self-report and the Fagerström Test for Nicotine Dependence. Resistin levels were measured in blood samples.Higher resistin levels were associated with increased risk of major depressive disorder (MDD) in a sex- and smoking-dependent manner, with the strongest effect observed in female smokers and ex-smokers. No association was found between resistin and depression severity, while alcohol use emerged as the strongest predictor of masculine depression symptoms.This study demonstrates that resistin interacts with smoking and sex to increase MDD risk, particularly in female smokers/ex-smokers, highlighting the importance of preventive strategies targeting depression risk in women with comorbid risk behaviors such as smoking.German Clinical Trials Register ID DRKS00015291, registration date 2020-01-06, retrospectively registered.© 2026. The Author(s).
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is commonly linked with metabolic disturbances such as central obesity, insulin resistance, dyslipidaemia and low-grade inflammation. Adipokines released from adipose tissue may influence hepatic fat accumulation, metabolic dysfunction and progression of liver injury. This study was conducted to assess the serum adipokine profile in patients with NAFLD, compare it with healthy controls and evaluate its relationship with anthropometric and biochemical parameters.This case-control study included 100 participants, consisting of 50 patients with ultrasound-diagnosed NAFLD and 50 age- and sex-matched healthy controls. Demographic details, body mass index, waist circumference, fasting blood glucose, fasting insulin, lipid profile and liver function parameters were recorded. Serum adiponectin, leptin, resistin and visfatin levels were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Insulin resistance was assessed using the Homeostatic Model Assessment of Insulin Resistance (HOMA-IR) index. The data were analysed to compare adipokine levels between the two groups and to determine their association with metabolic variables.The mean age of patients with NAFLD was 43.8 ± 9.6 years. Among them, 29 patients (58.0%) were males and 21 patients (42.0%) were females. Compared with controls, patients with NAFLD had significantly higher body mass index (29.1 ± 3.8 vs 23.7 ± 2.9 kg/m²), waist circumference (96.4 ± 8.7 vs 82.6 ± 7.9 cm), fasting blood glucose (112.8 ± 18.5 vs 91.6 ± 10.7 mg/dL), triglycerides (186.5 ± 42.3 vs 124.7 ± 31.8 mg/dL) and HOMA-IR (3.8 ± 1.2 vs 1.7 ± 0.6), with p < 0.001 for all comparisons. Serum adiponectin was significantly lower in the NAFLD group than in controls (5.9 ± 2.1 vs 10.8 ± 3.4 µg/mL; p < 0.001). In contrast, serum leptin (24.6 ± 8.9 vs 12.3 ± 5.4 ng/mL), resistin (14.8 ± 4.6 vs 8.7 ± 3.1 ng/mL) and visfatin (32.5 ± 10.2 vs 18.9 ± 7.6 ng/mL) were significantly higher among patients with NAFLD (p < 0.001). Adiponectin showed a negative correlation with body mass index, triglycerides and HOMA-IR, whereas leptin and resistin showed positive correlations with these parameters.Patients with NAFLD showed a clear adipokine imbalance, characterised by reduced adiponectin and increased leptin, resistin and visfatin levels. This pattern was associated with obesity, dyslipidaemia and insulin resistance, indicating that adipokine alterations may contribute to the metabolic and inflammatory mechanisms involved in NAFLD.Copyright © 2026, C et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42544277 is a review article
Adipose tissue is an active endocrine organ that secretes adipokines capable of modulating brain function through metabolic, inflammatory, vascular, and neurotrophic pathways. Emerging evidence suggests that dysregulated adipokine signaling contributes to cognitive decline and neurodegeneration by impairing neuronal energy metabolism, mitochondrial function, insulin signaling, and synaptic plasticity, while amplifying oxidative stress and neuroinflammation. Therefore, this review aimed to summarize and discuss the potential roles of adipokines in brain health, particularly cognitive function, based on findings from preclinical and clinical studies.The search strategy incorporated combinations of keywords and MeSH terms, including: "adipokine*", "leptin", "adiponectin", "resistin", "brain", "cognition", "cognitive decline", "dementia", "Alzheimer's disease", "aging", and "metabolic dysfunction".Preclinical studies demonstrate the neuroprotective effects of adipokines such as leptin, adiponectin, and C1q/TNF-Related Protein-3 (CTRP3), which act through AMPK, PI3K/Akt, sirtuin, and anti-inflammatory signaling pathways to preserve neuronal survival and cognitive function. In contrast, adipokines including resistin, Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 (DPP-4), Angiopoietin-like protein 4 (ANGPTL4), and visfatin may exacerbate neurodegeneration by promoting insulin resistance, amyloidogenic processing, mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and chronic inflammation. However, clinical studies in aging populations have reported paradoxical associations between elevated circulating adipokine levels and worse cognitive outcomes, potentially reflecting compensatory upregulation, adipokine resistance, altered body composition, or age-related metabolic dysregulation.This review highlights mechanistic and clinical evidence supporting adipokines as promising biomarkers and therapeutic targets for modulating the adipose-brain axis to prevent or slow cognitive decline.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42506407 is a review article
Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD) are complex disorders involving metabolic, immune, and hormonal dysregulation. Adipocytokines from adipose tissue influence metabolism, inflammation, and immune regulation. We investigated adiponectin, resistin, and visfatin in relation to thyroid, glucose, and metabolic parameters in adults with T2DM, AITD, both conditions, and healthy controls. A total of 385 adults were recruited. Clinical, anthropometric, and laboratory parameters were assessed, including glycemia, glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), free thyroxine (fT4), thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), thyroid antibodies, and serum levels of adiponectin, resistin, and visfatin. Correlation and regression analyses were performed, including models adjusted for age, sex, and BMI. Adiponectin was higher in AITD than T2DM (p=0.012), resistin was higher in T2DM&AITD than controls (p=0.004), and visfatin was lower in T2DM than other groups (p<0.001). In T2DM&AITD, adiponectin correlated positively with age and fT4 and negatively with BMI (p=0.028, p=0.034). Resistin correlated inversely with TSH in AITD (p=0.033). Visfatin correlated inversely with thyroid volume in T2DM (p=0.003) and with waist circumference in AITD and T2DM&AITD (p=0.007, p=0.020). After adjustment, resistin remained higher in T2DM&AITD vs. controls (p=0.013) and visfatin and adiponectin remained lower in T2DM vs. controls (p=0.049 and p=0.045, respectively). This study highlights distinct adipocytokine profiles in individuals with metabolic and autoimmune thyroid conditions. Adiponectin, resistin, and visfatin may be potential biomarkers for disease severity and metabolic dysfunction. Further research is needed to elucidate the mechanistic pathways linking adipocytokines to the pathophysiology of T2DM and AITD. Key words Type 2 diabetes mellitus " Autoimmune thyroid disease " Adipocytokines " Metabolic dysfunction.
The causal associations between various obesity indices and Atrial Fibrillation (AF) have not been well established. We aimed to investigate these causal relationships and explore the potential mediating roles of adipokines (leptin, resistin, and adiponectin).General obesity was assessed via Body Fat Percentage (BFP) and Body Mass Index (BMI), while Waist Circumference (WC), Waist-to-Hip Ratio (WHR), and Hip Circumference (HC) represented central obesity. Bidirectional and two-step Mendelian Randomization (MR) were performed using the Inverse Variance Weighted (IVW), weighted median, and MR-Egger methods to assess causality and mediation effects.All obesity indicators (including BMI-adjusted WC/HC) were causally related to AF risk (each P < 0.05 for the IVW method). The two-step MR analysis indicated that leptin could mediate the causal relationships between several obesity indices and AF risk, including general (BMI and BFP) and central (WC and HC) obesity indices (P < 0.05). Leptin's mediating effect persisted in the relationship between central obesity and AF risk, even when using data adjusted by BMI, as particularly evidenced by the weighted median method (P < 0.05).Our findings suggest that both overall adiposity and fat distribution contribute to AF risk. The identification of leptin as a key mediator indicates that the relationship between obesity and AF may be partly explained by leptin-related biological mechanisms.Both general and central obesity are causally associated with AF risk, with leptin acting as an important mediator.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Following the publication of the above paper, the authors contacted the Editorial Office to explain that the western blots included in Fig. 3 on p. 504 had inadvertently been included in error. Given the time that has elapsed since the publication of this paper, the authors no longer had access to their original data, and so they have repeated these experiments, and the revised version of this figure is presented below. Note that the results obtained in these experiments are broadly similar to the published results, and the overall scientific conclusions reported in the article are not affected by repeating these experiments. The authors are grateful to the Editor of Oncology Letters for allowing them the opportunity to publish this Corrigendum, and all the authors agree with its publication. [Oncology Letters 15: 502‑506, 2017; DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2016.6027].
Kawasaki disease (KD) is a systemic vasculitis in children primarily affecting the coronary arteries, and studies suggest that the gut microbiota may be involved in KD pathogenesis, inflammatory responses, and immune regulation. This study employed an integrative multi-omics strategy to systematically investigate gut microbiota-metabolite interactions in KD. Key molecular targets were identified using network-based analyses and machine learning models, with Mendelian randomization providing causal validation. Single-cell transcriptomics and molecular docking further elucidated immune cell interactions and metabolite-protein binding, highlighting critical regulatory pathways. We identified SELP as a core molecular target in KD, predominantly expressed in platelets and involved in immune and inflammatory responses. Gut microbiota-derived metabolites, including palmitoylethanolamide, pantothenic acid, and 1-O-caffeoylglycerol, may regulate immune cell interactions via the RESISTIN signalling pathway. Altered abundances of microbial taxa such as Bacteroides, Parabacteroides, and Bifidobacterium suggest their potential role in inflammation modulation. Activation of IL-17, TNF, MAPK, and PI3K-Akt pathways further contributes to disease progression, highlighting the microbiota-metabolite-SELP axis as a potential therapeutic target in KD. These findings lay the groundwork for subsequent in vitro and in vivo studies, advancing the development of microbiome-based intervention strategies.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42504956 is a review article
Mitochondrial dysfunction has been recognized as one of the three hallmark biological features of autism spectrum disorder. This study is intended to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying prenatal psychological fear stress‑induced hippocampal mitochondrial damage in offspring. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that the calcium signaling pathway, particularly the phospholipase C beta 1(PLCβ1)- inositol 1,4,5‑trisphosphate receptor (IP3R)- voltage‑dependent anion channel 1(VDAC1) pathway, may play a key role in prenatal stress‑induced hippocampal mitochondrial damage in offspring. To validate this, we examined pathway activation in the offspring hippocampus of prenatal fear stressed rats and in corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH; also known as CRF in rodents) overexposed SH‑SY5Y cells, along with mitochondrial calcium levels in the cells. Prenatal fear stress induced depressive-like behavior and HPA axis activation in pregnant dams, and reduced survival and growth in offspring. Placental and neonatal brain CRF levels were elevated. At the early socialization stage (Postnatal day 21-30), model offspring showed normal basal but exaggerated stress-induced HPA responses. Their hippocampus exhibited expanded MAM coverage, reduced ER-mitochondria distance, and upregulated PLCβ1, IP3R1, VDAC1 expression, along with increased GRP75‑VDAC1 co‑localization, confirming MAM remodeling at the molecular level. In vitro, CRH (20 µM for 48 h or 5-20 µM for 96 h) inhibited SH-SY5Y cell proliferation, upregulated CRH receptor 1(CRHR1), PLCβ1, VDAC1, and increased mitochondrial calcium; these effects were reversed by the CRHR1 antagonist CP376395 or PLCβ1 knockdown. Furthermore, the MCU inhibitor DS16570511 partially reversed CRH‑induced mitochondrial calcium elevation and proliferation inhibition, suggesting that mitochondrial calcium overload contributes to the proliferation inhibition. Collectively, these results suggest that prenatal fear stress may, via the CRF-CRFR1 axis, influence the PLCβ1-IP3R-VDAC1 pathway, inducing MAM remodeling and mitochondrial calcium overload, thereby contributing to offspring hippocampal neuronal damage.© 2026. The Author(s).
The genetic background of hypertriglyceridemia is complex. In this systematic review and meta-analysis, we determined genetic variants associated with fasting triglyceride (TG) and very-low-density lipoprotein-TG (VLDL-TG) concentrations in European adults.We searched PubMed and the National Human Genome Research Institute-European Bioinformatics Institute (NHGRI-EBI) genome-wide association studies catalog for studies on genetic variants associated with fasting TG and VLDL-TG concentrations. We performed the meta-analysis on 23 variants from studies that met our criteria. A fixed-effects model was applied, with a random-effects model used when significant heterogeneity was detected. The Ensembl Variant Effect Predictor was used to annotate these variants.Overall, 157 studies were included, of which 130 were used for meta-analysis. Overall, 1837 variants were related to fasting TG and/or VLDL-TG (P ≤ .05). Our meta-analysis revealed 11 genetic variants associated with fasting TG: rs58542926 in the transmembrane 6 superfamily member 2 (TM6SF2) gene, rs738409 in the patatin-like phospholipase domain-containing protein 3 (PNPLA3) gene, rs7903146 in the transcription factor 7-like 2 (TCF7L2) gene, rs320 and rs328 in the lipoprotein lipase (LPL) gene, and rs1801282 in the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ2 (PPARγ2) gene were associated with lower TG concentrations, while rs693 in the apolipoprotein-B (APOB) gene, rs5128 in the apolipoprotein-c3 (APOC3) gene, rs662799 in the apolipoprotein A-V (APOA5) gene, rs662 in the paraoxonase 1 (PON1) gene, and rs1800588 in the hepatic lipase C (LIPC) gene were associated with higher TG concentrations. Five of those (rs58542926, rs738409, rs320, rs328, and rs1801282) were predicted to be deleterious to the protein function.This study identified variants associated with fasting TG and/or VLDL-TG concentrations in European adults, which may help in identifying genetically susceptible individuals and strengthening the accuracy of genetic risk prediction for TG-related outcomes.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42367646 is a review article
Endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 1 (ERAP1) regulates immune responses by proteolytically processing peptides presented by major histocompatibility class I molecules (MHC-I). ERAP1 can reduce the immunogenicity of cancer cells by destroying cancer-associated antigenic peptides or contribute to autoimmunity by generating self-antigenic peptides. ERAP1 inhibition has emerged as a tractable approach for cancer immunotherapy and specific classes of autoimmune diseases. We describe the discovery of a potent and selective ERAP1 inhibitor that targets its regulatory allosteric site. The compound has favorable in vivo pharmacokinetics, oral bioavailability, can regulate the immunopeptidome of cancer cells, and enhance tumor antigenicity in vivo controlling growth. When administered in the murine collagen-induced arthritis model, we observed no exacerbation of autoimmune responses but rather a dose-dependent therapeutic benefit. Our results demonstrate that ERAP1 inhibition is a tractable approach to modulating immune responses, provide mechanistic insight, and are valuable in vivo tools for interrogating ERAP1 biology and further drug development.
Our study investigated the association between transcription factor 7-like 2 (TCF7L2-rs7903146), angiotensin convertase enzyme (ACE-rs4646994), angiotensinogen (AGT-rs699), angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AGT1R-rs5186), fat mass and obesity-associated (FTO-rs17817499) and melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4R-rs17782313, rs12970134 and rs229616) single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with type 2 diabetes (T2D), obesity and hypertension in a Black South African population.This cross-sectional study involved 560 Black South Africans aged 25 to 74 years. Participant demographic and lifestyle characteristics were self-reported; anthropometry and blood pressures (BP) measured; oral glucose tolerance tests used to diagnose T2D; and SNPs genotyped by polymerase chain reaction. The Benjamini-Hochberg method was used to control for multiple hypothesis testing, using a significance threshold of 0.12.Using the median test, systolic BP was significantly higher in carriers of the G/G genotype of rs229616 within the MC4R gene compared to carriers of the G/A genotype (p = 0.006, p-FDR = 0.030). In the same gene, logistic regression analysis showed that carriers of the minor C/C genotype of the rs17782313 SNP had a significantly higher risk of hypertension (OR = 1.37, p = 0.023, p-FDR = 0.115) in the unadjusted model. However, the significance was attenuated after adjusting for age, gender and BMI (OR = 1.32, p = 0.084, p-FDR = 0.140). Moreover, carriers of the minor T/T genotype of the TCF7L2 rs7903146 SNP had a lower risk of T2D in the crude model (OR = 0.66, p = 0.043, p-FDR = 0.108) and after adjustment for age, gender and BMI (OR = 0.63, p = 0.041, p-FDR = 0.108). These findings remained significant after correction for multiple comparisons.TCF7L2-rs7903146 (C/C genotype) and MC4R-17,782,313 (C/C genotype) SNPs are potential genetic risk factors for T2D and hypertension, respectively, in the Black South African population. Replicating these findings and exploring the role played by these genetic variants in downstream molecular pathways could aid in risk stratification and facilitate personalized approaches to healthcare delivery.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a fatal disease characterized by pulmonary vascular remodeling, primarily driven by excessive proliferation of pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells (PASMCs). Although noncoding RNAs, such as circular RNAs, have been implicated in PH, the role of tRNA-derived small RNA remains poorly understood. Among them, i-tRF (internal tRNA-derived fragment)-Asp represents a novel tRNA-derived small RNA whose function in hypoxic PH is unknown. This study aims to investigate whether i-tRF-Asp contributes to PASMC proliferation and vascular remodeling in hypoxic PH.To elucidate the functional role of i-tRF-Asp, loss-of-function experiments were conducted in vitro using hypoxic mouse PASMCs, alongside in vivo studies using both SuHx (Sugen5416+hypoxia) induced PH models in both adult male C57BL/6 mice and Sprague-Dawley rats. These models employed antisense oligonucleotide inhibitors and adeno-associated virus-mediated silencing. The underlying mechanisms were further explored via RNA immunoprecipitation, liquid-liquid phase separation assays, cell proliferation assessment, Western blot, alternative splicing profiling, and molecular dynamics simulation.Inhibition of i-tRF-Asp ameliorated hypoxia-induced pulmonary vascular remodeling, primarily through suppressing excessive proliferation of mouse PASMCs. Further analysis indicated that i-tRF-Asp facilitates liquid-liquid phase separation of hnRNPU (heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein U). This process mediates selective recruitment of Tcf7l2 (transcription factor 7-like 2) pre-mRNA and promotes alternative splicing, resulting in a pro-proliferative Tcf7l2 transcript variant that drives mouse PASMC proliferation. Furthermore, we have identified that the endonuclease ERN1 (endoribonuclease IRE1) can upregulate the expression of i-tRF-Asp.The endoribonuclease ERN1 upregulates the expression of i-tRF-Asp, which in turn facilitates mouse PASMC proliferation and pulmonary vascular remodeling. This process is driven by hnRNPU liquid-liquid phase separation-dependent alternative splicing of the long Tcf7l2 transcript isoform.
Natural bobtail phenotypes, mostly caused by a mutation in the T-box transcription factor T-gene, occur in several dog breeds. Although generally considered benign, reduced tail length may co-occur with structural changes in the lumbosacral spine, raising potential welfare concerns.The objective of this study was to investigate whether natural bobtail phenotypes (short- and stumptails) are associated with the occurrence of lumbosacral transitional vertebra (LTV) in Brittany dogs and Danish-Swedish Farmdogs.This retrospective, cross-sectional study included 1679 dogs [Brittany dogs (n = 744); Danish-Swedish Farmdogs (n = 935)] screened through the Norwegian Kennel Club's hip dysplasia program. Standardized ventrodorsal pelvic radiographs were evaluated for LTV and tail phenotypes. Associations were assessed using chi-square tests, odds ratios (OR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI), and post-hoc standardized residuals. Tail phenotypes were analyzed as a binary variable (bobtail versus normal) in both breeds and as a 3-category variable (stump, short, normal) in Brittany dogs.Lumbosacral transitional vertebra prevalence was 47.8% in Brittany dogs and 14.9% in Danish-Swedish Farmdogs, whereas the natural bobtail phenotype (stump + short) occurred in 26.7% of Brittany dogs and 11.0% (short) of Danish-Swedish Farmdogs. In Brittany dogs, bobtailed dogs had significantly increased odds of being LTV-positive compared with dogs having a tail of normal length (OR = 2.04, 95% CI: 1.47 to 2.85; P < 0.001), with the strongest association observed in stump-tailed individuals. In Danish-Swedish Farmdogs, the association was weaker and did not reach statistical significance (OR = 1.66, 95% CI: 0.99 to 2.76; P = 0.05).Natural bobtail phenotypes are associated with LTV in Brittany dogs, with stump-tailed dogs showing the strongest association. A similar, non-significant trend was observed in Danish-Swedish Farmdogs.Copyright and/or publishing rights held by the Canadian Veterinary Medical Association.
This study investigated the mechanism by which Xiaoyao San ameliorates &quot;brain-gut&quot; interaction disorders in chronic stress-induced mice by examining its effects on T helper 1 cell(Th1)/T helper 2 cell(Th2) immune balance. Forty male C57BL/6 mice(6-8 weeks old, SPF grade) were randomly assigned to four groups(n=10 per group): control group, model group, Xiaoyao San group(7.63 g·kg~(-1)), and fluoxetine hydrochloride group(4.11 mg·kg~(-1)). Except for the control group, all groups underwent 28 days of chronic unpredictable mild stress(CUMS) to establish the model. Behavioral tests were conducted on day 28. From day 29, the Xiaoyao San and fluoxetine hydrochloride groups received corresponding drug solutions via oral gavage for 28 days(once daily), while the control and model groups received equivalent volumes of saline. CUMS modeling continued uninterrupted during the administration period. Behavioral assessments were repeated on day 56, with body weight monitored throughout the experiment. Hematoxylin-eosin(HE) staining was used to observe pathological changes in intestinal tissues. The villus height and crypt depth were measured, and their ratio was calculated. Immunohistochemistry(IHC) was employed to detect the expression of tight junction proteins zonula occludens-1(ZO-1) and occludin in the intestinal mucosa. Serum levels of interferon-γ(IFN-γ), interleukin(IL)-2, IL-4, IL-10, corticosterone(CORT), gastrin(GAS), motilin(MTL), and somatostatin(SS) were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay(ELISA) and subjected to correlation analysis. Western blot was performed to assess T-box transcription factor T-bet and GATA-binding protein 3(GATA-3) protein expression in the hypothalamus and intestinal tissues. The results demonstrated that Xiaoyao San significantly alleviated CUMS-induced depressive-like behaviors, including weight loss, reduced sucrose preference, and decreased locomotor activity in the open field test. HE staining indicated that Xiaoyao San effectively restored intestinal villus structure and increased the villus height-to-crypt depth ratio. IHC results showed that Xiaoyao San enhanced the expression of occludin and ZO-1 related to intestinal mucosal barrier, suggesting improved intestinal barrier function. ELISA analysis revealed that Xiaoyao San significantly decreased serum levels of CORT, SS, IFN-γ, and IL-2, while increasing GAS, MTL, IL-4, and IL-10, indicating mitigation of stress-induced damage and inflammatory responses, as well as regulation of brain-gut peptide secretion. Western blot results showed that Xiaoyao San significantly reduced T-bet protein expression and the T-bet/GATA-3 ratio in both the hypothalamus and intestinal tissues, suggesting correction of Th1/Th2 immune imbalance induced by CUMS. Correlation analysis indicated significant associations between brain-gut peptides and Th1/Th2-related inflammatory factors, implying a link between Th1/Th2 inflammatory responses and brain-gut regulatory function. In conclusion, Xiaoyao San ameliorates brain-gut interaction disorders in chronic stress mice, potentially through restoring Th1/Th2 immune balance, attenuating inflammatory responses, and modulating &quot;brain-gut&quot; peptide secretion.
TPIT (TBX19 [T-box transcription factor 19]) immunohistochemistry is widely used to classify corticotroph tumors, yet unexpected nuclear staining has been observed in chordoma with certain commercial clones, raising concerns about diagnostic cross-reactivity.To investigate the molecular basis of cross-reactivity of the TPIT antibody clone OTI2G1 in chordoma and assess the potential diagnostic pitfall in tumors of the sellar region.We compared TBX19 and TBXT (Brachyury [T-box transcription factor T]) by T-box domain sequence alignment and structural modeling/superposition. Immunohistochemistry for TPIT (OTI2G1, CL6251) and Brachyury was performed on pituitary tissues, corticotroph tumors, and chordomas. Colocalization of OTI2G1 and Brachyury was quantified by multiplex immunofluorescence.TBX19 and Brachyury T-box domains showed marked structural similarity (Cα root mean square deviation, 0.071 Å), and the OTI2G1 immunogen (TBX19 amino acids [aa] 1-238) overlapped the Brachyury T-box. OTI2G1 showed diffuse nuclear staining in chordomas, whereas CL6251 showed negativity. Multiplex immunofluorescence demonstrated OTI2G1 signal in 77.6% of Brachyury-positive chordoma cells (95% CI, 77.5%-77.6%; P < .001).Diffuse nuclear "TPIT" staining with OTI2G1 in chordoma reflects cross-reactivity driven by conserved T-box structure rather than true TBX19 expression. For the differential diagnosis of sellar lesions, especially poorly differentiated chordoma versus pituitary neuroendocrine tumor, use of more specific clones (eg, CL6251) is recommended.
Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) is a fatal interstitial lung disease characterized by excessive extracellular matrix deposition and irreversible architectural distortion. The mechanisms driving the transition from tissue repair to fibrosis are complex and remain poorly understood. By analyzing interpatient variation across 75 idiopathic PF lungs, we identified a conserved profibrotic macrophage subset, distinct from canonical M1/M2 or SPP1+ states, characterized by high legumain (LGMN) expression and enrichment of gene signatures implicated in leukocyte activation and matrix remodeling. LGMN + macrophages localize within fibroblastic foci and are associated with disease progression and poor prognosis. Lineage-tracing and RNA velocity analyses revealed that LGMN + macrophages arise from monocytes through fibroblast-derived macrophage colony-stimulating factor signaling, which activates Maf BZIP transcription factor B-dependent differentiation programs. Pharmacological inhibition or macrophage-specific deletion of Lgmn markedly attenuated bleomycin-induced lung fibrosis, reduced extracellular matrix accumulation, and improved lung architecture. LGMN activates cathepsin S to mediate degradation of basement membrane collagen IV, thereby disrupting the alveolar-capillary barrier. In parallel, secreted LGMN acts as a paracrine signal to activate fibroblasts and promote collagen I deposition, collectively fostering a profibrotic niche. Together, these findings establish LGMN as a macrophage effector that links immune activation to matrix remodeling, thereby driving the transition from tissue injury to fibrosis.Copyright © 2026 Zhongzheng Li et al.
Diabetic foot ulcer (DFU) represents a significant challenge in clinical management due to its complexity and the impaired wound-healing process associated with diabetes. The role of MAF bZIP transcription factor B (MAFB) in regulating macrophage polarization and its potential impact on DFU healing is an area of growing interest. This study investigates the molecular mechanisms by which MAFB influences diabetic wound healing. MAFB and WD repeat domain 74 (WDR74) protein levels were evaluated using western blotting. mRNA expression of target genes was quantified through quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Flow cytometry was utilized to analyze the proportion of cluster of differentiation 206 (CD206) and CD86-positive cells. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays were conducted to measure the concentrations of interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and interleukin-10. Malondialdehyde production and superoxide dismutase activity were determined using colorimetric assays. Reactive oxygen species levels were quantified with a fluorometric assay. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed to examine the interaction between MAFB and WDR74. Furthermore, a rat model of DFU was established to validate in vivo findings regarding MAFB's role in M2 polarization, inflammation, and oxidative stress. Histological evaluation of wound tissues was performed using hematoxylin and eosin (H&E)and Masson's trichrome staining. The results showed that elevated MAFB levels in LPS-stimulated RAW264.7 macrophages led to a shift towards an M2 phenotype, alongside decreased inflammatory responses and oxidative stress. Mechanistically, MAFB was found to activate the transcription of WDR74 in these macrophages. Notably, WDR74 upregulation promoted M2 polarization and mitigated inflammation and oxidative stress in LPS-treated cells, whereas silencing WDR74 reversed the beneficial effects of MAFB overexpression. Further, in vivo, MAFB promoted wound healing of DFU rats by repressing inflammatory and oxidative stress responses. Thus, MAFB overexpression promoted diabetic foot ulcer healing by fostering a tissue repair phenotype and suppressing inflammation and oxidative stress through the transcriptional activation of WDR74. These findings underscore the potential of MAFB as a therapeutic target for improving diabetic wound healing, which could lead to novel clinical strategies for treating DFUs.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Myocarditis, often triggered by infections such as sepsis, involves complex mechanisms including mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress and inflammation. The role of activating transcription factor 5 (ATF5) in myocarditis remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the role of ATF5 in LPS-induced cardiac injury and its potential mechanism involving mitophagy and pyroptosis. An LPS-induced septic cardiomyopathy model was established in H9c2 cardiomyocytes and rats. ATF5 was overexpressed via plasmid transfection in vitro and in vivo. Cell viability, apoptosis, inflammatory cytokine levels, oxidative stress markers, mitophagy-related proteins (LC3-II, Parkin, PINK1, p62), and pyroptosis-related proteins (NLRP3, Caspase-1, GSDMD) were assessed using CCK-8, flow cytometry, ELISA, Western blot, and biochemical assays. Autophagy inhibitor chloroquine (CQ) and GSDMD-targeted siRNA were applied to explore mechanistic interactions. The results showed that ATF5 overexpression alleviated LPS-induced cardiomyocyte injury by enhancing cell viability, reducing apoptosis, and suppressing inflammatory cytokine release (IL-1β, IL-6 and IL-18) and myocardial injury markers (CK-MB and cTn-I). ATF5 promoted mitophagy, reduced oxidative stress (ROS, LDH, GSH-Px and SOD), and inhibited pyroptosis. Mechanistically, CQ abolished the ATF5-mediated protection against cardiomyocyte injury, which was then restored by si-GSDMD. In vivo, ATF5 overexpression improved cardiac function, attenuated fibrosis and decreased serum injury markers in LPS-treated rats. In conclusion, ATF5 enhanced mitophagy, effectively cleared damaged mitochondria, reduced ROS generation, and subsequently inhibited the pyroptosis pathway, ultimately alleviating myocardial injury.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Activating transcription factor 5 (ATF5) is a transcription regulator closely associated with cancers. Our previous studies have identified the expression and function of ATF5 in various malignant tumors. However, a comprehensive study of ATF5 remains lacking across different tumor types. This study will focus on a comprehensive analysis of ATF5 across various cancers, while further investigating the function of the ATF5 protein in gliomas and its protein characteristics.We investigated ATF5 expression across various tumors using systematic bioinformatics analysis. We further examined the correlations between ATF5 expression and patient prognosis, tumor staging, and immunological characteristics. Additionally, functional enrichment analysis was performed on proteins interacting with or co-expressed with ATF5. We employed flow cytometry to analyze apoptosis and investigate the function of ATF5 in glioma cell lines. Furthermore, immunohistochemistry (IHC) was employed to validate the relationship between ATF5 expression and distinct glioma grades. Finally, we explored the protein phase-separation capacity of ATF5 and its influencing factors in vitro.ATF5 expression levels exhibited a strong correlation with prognosis in multiple cancers. Functional clustering analysis of the proteins interacting with ATF5 and co-expressed with ATF5 suggested that ATF5 might influence tumor cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. Immunohistochemical results demonstrated a strong association between ATF5 expression and glioma pathological grades. Additionally, flow cytometry analysis showed that interfering with ATF5 expression using small interfering RNA (siRNA) promoted apoptosis in glioma cells. Interestingly, droplet formation experiments confirmed that ATF5 is capable of aggregation in vitro and is influenced by factors such as salt concentration.Our findings indicate that ATF5 has prognostic value in cancer treatment, providing a potential therapeutic target for subsequent treatment of related cancers.© AME Publishing Company.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is an aggressive malignant neoplasm with high incidence and dismal prognostic outcomes.This study sought to validate the prognostic significance of miR-4725-3p in HCC and the possible molecular mechanism.A total of 117 HCC patients were stratified into two groups according to the median expression level of miR-4725-3p. Following a 5-year follow-up with death as the end event, a Kaplan-Meier curve was drawn. The potential risk factors for poor prognosis were evaluated using Cox regression analysis. Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) and Transwell assay were employed to assess the role of miR-4725-3p silencing on Huh-7 and Hep3B cells viability and migration. Downstream target genes of miR-4725-3p were predicted, and a dual-luciferase assay was conducted to verify the interaction.MiR-4725-3p was significantly upregulated in HCC tissue and cell line. Survival analysis showed that high miR-4725-3p expression was associated with poor prognosis in HCC patients (log-rank P = 0.006). At the cellular level, silencing miR-4725-3p significantly suppressed the viability and migration of Huh-7 and Hep3B cells. Mechanistically, activating transcription factor 5 (ATF5) was identified as a direct target of miR-4725-3p. ATF5 was downregulated in HCC tissue and cells.The results of this study revealed that miR-4725-3p serves as a promising prognostic biomarker for HCC, and its oncogenic role in promoting HCC cell viability and migration may be mediated, at least in part, via the negative regulation of ATF5.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cholesterol metabolism is critical in cancer biology, yet its role in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains poorly understood. We investigated the expression and prognostic significance of cholesterol homeostasis genes in HCC to identify potential biomarkers for risk stratification. Using data from The Cancer Genome Atlas, we identified differentially expressed cholesterol-related genes (logFC ≥ 1.5, false discovery rate < 0.05), intersecting them with genes annotated in the Molecular Signatures Database. Prognostic biomarkers were evaluated using univariate and multivariate Cox regression. A predictive model was constructed to assess survival outcomes. Cholesterol homeostasis genes, particularly fatty acid-binding protein 5 (FABP5) and alcohol dehydrogenase 4 (ADH4), are key prognostic biomarkers in HCC. The proposed model provides a novel approach for predicting outcomes and may inform therapeutic strategies. Further studies are needed to validate these findings and explore their clinical utility. Nine cholesterol homeostasis genes were differentially expressed, including 6 upregulated (choline kinase alpha, FABP5, fatty acid synthase, farnesyl diphosphate synthase, mevalonate diphosphate decarboxylase, and squalene epoxidase) and 3 downregulated (ADH4, activating transcription factor 5, and arginine vasopressin receptor 1A). FABP5 and ADH4 emerged as independent prognostic factors: high FABP5 expression was associated with poor prognosis, while high ADH4 expression predicted improved survival. A prognostic model integrating FABP5 and ADH4 and clinical characteristics achieved a concordance index of 0.683, effectively stratifying patients into high-risk and low-risk groups (χ2 = 20.60, P < .001) with median survival times of 1135 and 2532 days, respectively.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Animals engage pleiotropic immune defense mechanisms to survive infections. Here, we present a function for mitochondrial fission in host defense. Challenge of macrophages with Escherichia coli increased mitochondrial fission, with this response promoting bacterial clearance in mammalian macrophages and Caenorhabditis elegans. E. coli-induced mitochondrial fission engaged dual antibacterial responses via the mitochondrial unfolded protein response (UPRmt) and inducible lipid droplet production. Mitochondrial fission-triggered UPRmt, characterized by activation of activating transcription factor 5 (ATF5) in mouse macrophages and the paralog ATFS-1 in C. elegans, curtailed inducible lipid droplets to cross-regulate these pathways. The intramacrophage pathogen Salmonella enterica suppressed antibacterial mitochondrial fission, but restoring this response by inhibiting mitochondrial fusion-promoting histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC6) reactivated lipid droplet production and bacterial clearance. Therefore, we propose that mitochondrial fission is an ancient host defense pathway that can be exploited for anti-infective design.
Histidine triad nucleotide-binding protein 1 (HINT1) is a small and evolutionarily conserved HIT family protein with putative tumor suppressor function. It has been implicated in the negative regulation of several transcription factors, but a role for HINT1 in Myocardin-related transcription factor A (MRTF-A)/serum response factor (SRF) signaling has not been described. Here, we examined whether HINT1 functionally interacts with MRTF-A in fibroblasts. HINT1 reduced MRTF-A-dependent reporter activity in a dose-dependent manner, whereas a histidine triad mutant did not. Repression by HINT1 was retained upon deletion of the N-terminal RPEL motifs of MRTF-A, indicating that the effect was not confined to the inhibition of Rho-actin signaling. In parallel, HINT1-WT increased the MRTF-A protein abundance, which required the C-terminal part of MRTF-A. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments revealed the physical association of HINT1 with MRTF-A, whereas the histidine triad mutant or a C-terminally truncated MRTF-A did not show complex formation. Thus, our work suggests that HINT1 acts as a negative regulator of MRTF-A-dependent transcription by binding to the MRTF-A C-terminal part, which appears to require the histidine triad region and is accompanied by a separable increase in MRTF-A abundance.© 2026 the author(s), published by De Gruyter, Berlin/Boston.
Elucidating novel signaling pathways that drive myotube hypertrophy may provide new insights into the mechanisms regulating skeletal muscle growth. We previously reported that 5-hydroxy-7-methoxyflavone (HMF) induces hypertrophy of murine C2C12 myotubes; however, the underlying molecular mechanism remains unclear. Here, loss- and gain-of-function analyses revealed that GPR97 positively regulates myotube size. Furthermore, knockdown and rescue experiments demonstrated that GPR97 is required for HMF-induced myotube hypertrophy. HMF activated mTORC1 signaling in myotubes, and intramuscular administration of HMF also activated mTORC1 signaling in mouse skeletal muscle in vivo. Gpr97 knockdown abolished HMF-induced mTORC1 signaling and protein synthesis. Furthermore, depletion of Gna12 and expression of dominant-negative Gα12 abolished HMF-induced myotube hypertrophy. Gna12 depletion also suppressed HMF-induced mTORC1 signaling and protein synthesis. Beclomethasone dipropionate, a reported GPR97 ligand, suppressed HMF-induced hypertrophy and mTORC1 signaling, while further enhancing HMF-induced serum response factor (SRF)-dependent transcription. Although dominant-negative RhoA inhibited HMF-induced SRF-dependent transcriptional activity, it did not affect myotube hypertrophy. These findings indicate that GPR97-Gα12-mTORC1 signaling promotes hypertrophy independent of the Gα12-RhoA-SRF pathway. GPR97 was predominantly expressed on the myotube surface as a C-terminal fragment generated by N-terminal fragment (NTF) cleavage, and HMF reduced its surface expression. HMF induced hypertrophy in myotubes expressing an NTF cleavage-resistant GPR97 mutant, but not in those expressing an NTF-deleted mutant. These results indicate that NTF cleavage is dispensable and suggest that NTF contributes to GPR97-mediated hypertrophic signaling. These findings identify a novel GPR97-Gα12-mTORC1 signaling axis that mediates HMF-induced myotube hypertrophy.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Androgens and the androgen receptor (AR) play critical roles in prostate cancer (PCa) development and progression. Consequently, primary treatment strategies target either androgen synthesis or androgen-AR interactions. Although initially effective, tumors frequently recur as androgen-independent and more aggressive disease. In recurrent tumors, AR signaling often remains active through AR mutations or activation of alternative signaling pathways. Earlier studies from our laboratory had identified GPR56 (ADGRG1/GPCR205), an adhesion GPCR, as a possible membrane androgen receptor. Here, we demonstrate that GPR56, is significantly overexpressed in PCa tissues at both the transcript and protein levels and is associated with poor patient survival. Functional studies revealed that GPR56 promotes PCa cell proliferation and migration. Furthermore, GPR56 regulates the expression of key androgen-responsive genes, including KLK3 (PSA), FOXA1, TMPRSS2, and NKX3.1 and many others, across multiple prostate cell models. This study demonstrates that Testosterone (T) stimulation of cells expressing GPR56, activates the G13-RhoA-PKN1 signaling pathway, resulting in enhanced PKN1 expression and activation. This leads to AR-PKN1 interaction and increased transcriptional activity of AR target genes. Further T-stimulation activates serum response factor (SRF)-dependent transcription activating the RhoA-ROCK1-MLCK axis, leading to robust actin polymerization, a process associated with increased tumor cell motility and metastatic potential. Collectively, these findings shed light on the role of GPR56 in AR signaling and PCa. Further, the identification of a previously unrecognized GPR56-G13-PKN1 axis which interacts with AR and possibly SRF to enhance AR target gene activity, presents GPR56 as a promising therapeutic target especially in case of advanced PCa.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
To explore the regulation and function of serum response factor (SRF)/Cellular communication network factor 1 (CCN1) pathway in ferroptosis in ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) acute kidney injury (AKI).The level of SRF, CCN1, ferroptosis markers (TFR1, ACSL4, xCT, GPX4), ROS and SOD were examined in HK-2 cells under hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) treatment or rat renal tissue samples after I/R treatment. SRF was overexpressed by pcDNA-SRF plasmid and suppressed by CCG-1423 (a small molecule inhibitor of SRF) or SRF siRNA to study how SRF influences ferroptosis through CCN1 in I/R AKI.In HK-2 cells under H/R treatment and renal tissue from I/R rats, the SRF along with CCN1, TFR1 and ACSL4 expression was upregulated, while xCT and GPX4 expression was downregulated. SRF upregulation in HK-2 cells increased CCN1 expression and was associated with ferroptosis-related changes. Blockade of SRF by CCG-1423 or an SRF-specific siRNA reduced CCN1 induction, protected renal tubular epithelial cells from ferroptosis-related injury, and alleviated I/R AKI both in vitro and in vivo.Increased SRF/CCN1 pathway activity may be associated with ferroptosis-related injury and dysfunction in renal tubular epithelial cells during AKI. Targeting SRF with CCG-1423 may represent a potential therapeutic strategy of AKI.© 2026 Asian Pacific Society of Nephrology.
Cardiac regeneration strategies increasingly leverage transient reprogramming to restore function in damaged myocardium. Here, we show that delivery of modRNA encoding STEMIN, a modified serum response factor, together with YAP5SA, a constitutively active YAP1 variant, induces coordinated chromatin remodeling and transcriptional reprogramming in cardiomyocytes. Using ATAC-seq and RNA-seq in rat and human cardiomyocytes, we identify the activation of cell cycle, DNA replication, and survival-associated pathways, alongside a robust induction of microRNAs linked to apoptosis resistance. Exosome profiling reveals selective packaging and release of these miRNAs, which may target key regulators of intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic pathways, including caspases and TP53-associated signaling. Functional assays demonstrate reduced apoptosis in vitro and in vivo. These findings support a model in which reprogramming factor-induced exosomal signaling enhances cardiomyocyte survival by inhibiting apoptosis, and highlight a potential therapeutic framework that integrates modRNA delivery with paracrine mechanisms for cardiac repair.
Background: Prostate cancer (PCa) responds poorly to immunotherapy. We investigated the myeloid checkpoint TIM3 (HAVCR2) to define its lineage localization and regulatory logic in the PCa microenvironment. Methods: We integrated stage-resolved public single-cell RNA-seq datasets spanning primary PCa, metastatic hormone-sensitive PCa, and castration-resistant PCa. Myeloid compartments were analyzed via differential expression, regulon inference, and ligand-receptor modeling. Clinical relevance was evaluated in the Cancer Genome Atlas prostate adenocarcinoma (TCGA-PRAD) cohort and independent cohorts using a myeloid TIM3 signature. Mechanistic validation was achieved through PR domain zinc finger protein 1 (PRDM1) chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by Chromatin Immunoprecipitation (ChIP)-qPCR (ChIP-qPCR), TIM3-promoter luciferase assays, and functional perturbation of the galectin 9 (LGALS9)-TIM3 signaling pathway in macrophages differentiated. Results: TIM3 expression was predominantly confined to monocytes/macrophages, indicating TIM3 as a microenvironmental checkpoint in PCa. TIM3_high macrophages formed a Secreted Phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1)-enriched tumor-associated macrophage (TAM) state coupled to chemokine programs and extracellular matrix remodeling. Regulon profiling nominated PR domain zinc finger protein 1 (PRDM1) as an upstream driver; PRDM1 correlated with TIM3. Communication inference further highlighted an LGALS9-TIM3 axis and a C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4/integrin subunit beta 1 (CXCR4/ITGB1)-associated permissive niche. Recombinant LGALS9 induced TIM3-linked M2-like macrophages polarization and increased CXCR4/ITGB1, which was attenuated by TIM3 blockade. Conclusions: Our results delineate a PRDM1-licensed TIM3_high macrophage program sustained by an LGALS9-TIM3 reinforcement loop and coupled to immunosuppressive and remodeling-associated phenotypes. Targeting TIM3 in the myeloid compartment, alone or in rational combinations, may represent a feasible strategy to reprogram tumor-associated macrophage states in PCa.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
Nonunion means failed fracture healing. Clusterin (CLU) was reported to be upregulated in callus tissues of nonunion patients. This study aims to investigate the roles of CLU in fracture healing and its function details. Our clinical data exhibited that CLU was increased in serum and callus tissues from nonunion patients, compared with control cases with normal healing after fracture. Experimental nonunion was induced by a transverse osteotomy of the femoral shaft combined with periosteum removing in rats, and X-ray showed that silencing of CLU facilitated fracture healing. Overexpression of CLU delayed mineralization and osteogenic differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs), and deactivated Wnt/β-catenin signaling in vivo and in vitro. Immunoprecipitation-liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry assay revealed that CLU bound to DEAD-box helicase 5 (DDX5), which was required for activation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling and lowly expressed in callus tissues from nonunion patients. IP results demonstrated that CLU acted as a chaperone to aggravate SMAD specific E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1 (SMURF1)-mediated ubiquitination of DDX5. The regulation of DDX5 by CLU was abrogated when SMURF1 was silenced, and the effects of CLU on osteogenic differentiation and Wnt/β-catenin signaling was abolished by DDX5 overexpression. In conclusion, we demonstrate that CLU delayed fracture healing of rats and suppressed osteogenic differentiation of BMSCs by enhancing SMURF1-mediated DDX5 ubiquitination and degradation as a chaperone, and deactivating Wnt/β-catenin signaling. These findings may provide novel potential therapeutic targets fracture and nonunion in clinic.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558636 is a review article
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a prevalent functional gastrointestinal disorder with an elusive pathophysiology. Although immune dysregulation and mild mucosal inflammation are recognized as important factors in IBS, the specific contribution of immunosenescence remains unclear. Prior MR studies on IBS focused on single molecular traits; however, an integrated multi-omics framework for aging-immune genes has not been applied. Here, we integrate cis-eQTL/pQTL/mQTL with machine learning and in vivo validation to identify putatively causal biomarkers and unravel the aging-immune axis.Aging- and immune-related genes were curated from published databases and analyzed using genome-wide cis-expression quantitative trait loci (cis-eQTL), cis-protein quantitative trait loci (cis-pQTL), and cis-methylation quantitative trait loci (cis-mQTL) datasets. All QTL data were derived from blood or plasma samples. Candidate genes were identified through integrative multi-omics analysis, followed by functional annotation, machine learning-based feature selection, immune infiltration profiling, and drug-target prediction. The expression of key biomarkers was validated using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) in colonic tissues from a rat model of diarrhea-predominant IBS (IBS-D).Integrative multi-omics analysis initially identified 34 high-confidence candidate genes. Through multi-algorithm machine learning such as least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO), support vector machine recursive feature elimination (SVM-RFE), and random forest, these candidates were refined to a core panel of five biomarkers: the antioxidant enzyme catalase (CAT), acyl-CoA dehydrogenase very long chain (ACADVL), chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 4 (CCL4), cyclin E1 (CCNE1), and Jagged canonical Notch ligand 1 (JAG1). These biomarkers demonstrated strong diagnostic performance for CAT, CCNE1, and JAG1 in the validation cohort (AUC: 0.935-0.951), while ACADVL and CCL4 showed only moderate diagnostic potential (AUC: 0.645-0.649). The combined AUC range in the training cohort was 0.898-0.959. However, in the IBS-D rat model, only JAG1 was significantly upregulated in colonic tissue, whereas CAT, ACADVL, CCL4, and CCNE1 showed no significant changes. Among the five markers, only JAG1 was significantly upregulated in the IBS-D rat colon, confirming its local gut relevance. CAT and CCNE1 showed strong diagnostic performance (AUC >0.9), whereas ACADVL and CCL4 performed modestly (AUC <0.7). Given the blood-derived QTL data and colonic validation, cross-tissue heterogeneity is a key caveat: JAG1 is robustly validated in colon, while the remaining four markers-especially ACADVL and CCL4-require further evaluation in blood, PBMCs, or other relevant tissues. Functional enrichment analysis revealed their involvement in critical biological processes, including oxidative stress, fatty acid metabolism, immune cell recruitment, cell cycle progression, and epithelial-immune crosstalk via Notch signaling. Immune infiltration analysis uncovered a distinct immune landscape in IBS, with significant correlations between biomarker expression and immune cell populations. Notably, only JAG1 was significantly upregulated in the colonic tissues of the IBS-D rat model, confirming its relevance to gut pathophysiology. No significant changes were detected for CAT, ACADVL, CCL4, or CCNE1 in the same tissue samples, highlighting the tissue-specific nature of these candidate biomarkers. The SMR analysis demonstrated consistent causal directions between genetically predicted expression and disease risk for these five markers, with no discordance relative to their upregulation in IBS patients. All biomarker validation was performed at the transcriptomic level (RT-qPCR); no protein-level assays (e.g., Western blot, IHC, or ELISA) were conducted.This study delineates the genetic architecture linking aging and immunity to IBS through an integrative multi-omics and machine learning approach, providing novel putatively causal evidence and identifying JAG1 as a robustly validated biomarker with diagnostic and therapeutic potential. The remaining candidates warrant further investigation in appropriate biological contexts.Copyright © 2026 Yao, Li, Zhang, Li, Linghu, Li and Zhao.
Placenta is an essential organ for a healthy pregnancy, thus maternal vascular hypoperfusion has been associated with adverse outcomes. Syndecan-1 and VEGF-A are involved in the placentation process. However, whether these proteins could serve as early markers of placental damage or fetal vascular damage is still unknown.A clinical study was carried out in 66 healthy pregnant women in the second trimester of pregnancy, with follow-up until delivery. The maternal age, height, and weight were collected. Ultrasound examination was performed to obtain fetal growth measures and fetal abdominal aorta characteristics. At birth, a histopathological study of the placenta was performed, and the newborn's weight and height were recorded. Maternal serum Syndecan-1 and VEGF-A levels were measured by ELISA in the second trimester and in cord blood serum at delivery. Analysis was performed with Student's t-test, and correlation tests.Placental histopathological analysis revealed a prevalence of 76% multiple infarcts, 64% increased syncytial knots, 27% distal villous hypoplasia, and 12% acute atherosis. Maternal Syndecan-1 levels were significantly lower in the presence of placental multiple infarcts (p < 0.001), acute atherosis (p = 0.018), distal villous hypoplasia (p < 0.001), and increased syncytial knots (p < 0.001). Maternal VEGF-A levels were not different in the presence of placental lesions. Maternal and umbilical cord blood Syndecan-1 levels correlated with fetal abdominal aorta Intima-media thickness (r = -0.57, p < 0.001, and r = 0.74, p < 0.001, respectively). Umbilical cord blood VEGF-A also correlated with fetal abdominal aorta Intima-media thickness (r = 0.43, p < 0.001).Maternal and cord blood Syndecan-1 could be an early marker of placental damage and fetal aortic intima media thickness.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Postoperative acute kidney injury remains a frequent and clinically important complication after cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass, and perioperative biomarkers may help identify patients at increased renal risk.To investigate the association between circulating biomarkers of endothelial glycocalyx degradation and postoperative acute kidney injury in patients undergoing cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass.This single-center retrospective observational study included 152 patients who underwent cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass at Kunshan First People's Hospital. Syndecan-1, hyaluronic acid, and heparan sulfate were measured before cardiopulmonary bypass and at the end of cardiopulmonary bypass. Postoperative acute kidney injury was defined according to the Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes criteria using postoperative serum creatinine and urine output. Between-group comparisons, paired analyses, logistic regression, and receiver operating characteristic analysis were performed.Postoperative acute kidney injury occurred in 43 of 152 patients, corresponding to an incidence of 28.3%. Patients with acute kidney injury were older, had worse baseline renal function, and underwent longer cardiopulmonary bypass and aortic clamp times. At the end of cardiopulmonary bypass, syndecan-1 and heparan sulfate levels were higher in the acute kidney injury group, whereas hyaluronic acid did not differ significantly between groups. All three glycocalyx biomarkers increased significantly from baseline to the end of cardiopulmonary bypass, with greater increases in the acute kidney injury group, particularly for syndecan-1 and heparan sulfate. In multivariable analysis, older age, longer aortic clamp time, and higher syndecan-1 at the end of cardiopulmonary bypass were associated with postoperative acute kidney injury. Syndecan-1 showed the best discriminatory performance among the evaluated biomarkers, with an area under the curve of 0.743.Circulating glycocalyx degradation biomarkers increased during cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass. Among the biomarkers examined, syndecan-1 measured at the end of cardiopulmonary bypass showed the clearest association with postoperative acute kidney injury and the best discriminatory performance.© 2026 Wang, He, Hong, Shen, Wang and Sun.
Although perioperative oxygen therapy is a routine component of general anesthesia, its early biological consequences remain incompletely understood. This prospective randomized study evaluated whether perioperative oxygen concentration influences early biomarker responses in adults undergoing elective laparoscopic lower abdominal surgery. Patients received either normoxia (FiO2 0.35) or hyperoxia (FiO2 0.80) under standardized anesthesia. Clear physiological separation between groups was confirmed by arterial blood gas analysis. The primary biomarker finding was that circulating surfactant protein-A (SP-A) increased significantly in the normoxia group, whereas no comparable increase was observed under hyperoxia. Syndecan-1 and sialic acid showed descriptively similar directional patterns; however, these secondary biomarker findings were interpreted as exploratory and were not robust after Holm correction. By contrast, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) levels were higher postoperatively in the hyperoxia group, while ischemia-modified albumin (IMA) and total protein did not differ significantly between groups. These findings suggest that perioperative hyperoxia was associated with different early circulating biomarker trajectories across pulmonary epithelial and glycocalyx-related domains, without establishing pulmonary or endothelial protection. Further studies are needed to determine whether these early mechanistic findings translate into clinically meaningful outcomes.
Background and objectives: Cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) is associated with endothelial glycocalyx injury and perioperative endothelial dysfunction. Syndecan-1 is commonly used as a biomarker of glycocalyx shedding, but data on its perioperative changes and their relationship with operative and patient-related factors remain limited. The aim of this study was to evaluate perioperative Syndecan-1 dynamics during coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) with CPB and to assess associations with ischemia-reperfusion exposure and patient characteristics. Materials and methods: This prospective observational study included 147 patients undergoing elective CABG with CPB. Syndecan-1 concentrations were measured at five time points: before induction of anaesthesia, immediately after aortic cross-clamp application, immediately after aortic declamping, on arrival at the ICU and 24 h after surgery. Perioperative changes were analysed using non-parametric tests, Spearman's rank correlation analysis and mixed-effects modelling. The study was registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT03491163; registered on 29 March 2018). Results: Syndecan-1 concentrations changed significantly over time (p < 0.001), increasing from a baseline median of 49.74 ng/mL to a peak of 147.78 ng/mL at ICU admission, followed by a partial decline to 65.26 ng/mL at 24 h. Aortic cross-clamp duration was weakly but significantly associated with Syndecan-1 concentration at ICU admission (rs = 0.243, p = 0.003) and with perioperative increases from baseline to ICU admission (ΔS4-1: rs = 0.196, p = 0.017) and from aortic clamping to ICU admission (ΔS4-2: rs = 0.207, p = 0.012). No significant associations were observed between CPB duration and Syndecan-1 concentrations in univariable analyses. In the mixed-effects model, a significant non-linear temporal pattern of Syndecan-1 concentrations was observed (both linear and quadratic time terms, p < 0.001). Male sex (β = 0.247, p = 0.009) and aortic cross-clamp duration (β = 0.016, p = 0.005) were independently associated with higher Syndecan-1 concentrations, whereas smoking status, age, BMI, diabetes status, EuroSCORE II, and CPB duration were not independently associated. Conclusions: Syndecan-1 concentrations increase significantly during cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass, peaking at ICU admission and partially declining within 24 h. Aortic cross-clamping duration, but not total CPB duration, showed weak associations with glycocalyx shedding. Male sex was independently associated with higher Syndecan-1 concentrations. These findings support ischemia-reperfusion injury as an important contributor to endothelial glycocalyx shedding during cardiac surgery.
During Ex Vivo Lung Perfusion (EVLP), it is standard practice to incorporate a leukocyte filter to remove donor passenger leukocytes and attenuate their inflammatory effects. The widely used leukocyte filter, LeukoGuard 6, seems to be ineffective in reducing circulating leukocytes during EVLP. Therefore, we performed contemporary leukocyte filtration using BioR 02 plus leukocyte filters to reduce these leukocytes and investigate whether inflammation could be reduced.EVLP was performed for a minimum of 180 min with 15 bilateral donor lungs. Perfusate samples were taken from the in- and outlet of the leukocyte filter, which was subsequently clamped after 60 min. Contemporary parallel leukocyte filtration was performed in 9 EVLPs (intervention group) and in 6 EVLPs without (control group).After EVLP, 6/6 donor lungs were transplanted in the control group and 6/9 in the intervention group. Leukocytes increased significantly from 30 to 180 min in the standard group compared with the intervention group. During EVLP IL-1, IL-6, IL-8, TNF-α, neutrophil elastase, CD-14, syndecan-1, hyaluronan and VCAM-1, levels were not significantly different between the groups at 90 and 180 min. Post-transplant, primary graft dysfunction (PGD) and 1-month survival were similar.The intervention group showed significantly lower circulating donor passenger leukocytes. However, this did not lead to attenuated inflammatory cytokines, leukocyte activation, glycocalyx shedding or endothelial activation. Clinical outcomes were similar between groups. Further research is needed to determine the exact effect of these donor passenger leukocytes.© 2026 The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42494468 is a review article
This research investigated the relationship between serum Syndecan-1 levels and myocardial fibrosis (MF) and major adverse cardiovascular events (MACEs) in elderly patients with atrial fibrillation (AF). Elderly patients with AF were divided into MF (n = 162) and N-MF (n = 89) groups. During 5-year follow-up, 78 patients with MACEs formed the MACEs group, and 173 without MACEs formed the N-MACEs group. Spearman correlation analysis was performed. Multivariate Cox regression and Kaplan-Meier curves were conducted, and ROC curves were plotted. Serum Syndecan-1 was elevated in the MF group versus the N-MF group. Serum Syndecan-1 levels in AF patients showed moderate positive correlations with both sST2 (r = 0.569) and PINP (r = 0.446). Serum Syndecan-1 showed diagnostic value for MF in patients with AF, with an AUC of 0.810. Moreover, combined detection with sST2 and PINP further achieved an AUC of 0.872. Serum Syndecan-1 levels were elevated in the MACE group compared to the N-MACEs group, and serum Syndecan-1 demonstrated discriminatory value for 5-year MACEs (AUC = 0.832). Serum Syndecan-1 (HR = 1.049) was independently associated with 5-year MACEs in AF patients. The risk associated with Syndecan-1 was more pronounced in patients with paroxysmalAF. After adjusting for sST2, NT-proBNP, LVEF, and MF, Syndecan-1 was independently associated with MACEs in patients with heart failure (P = 0.021). Elevated serum Syndecan-1 levels are associated with MF and MACEs in AF patients, suggesting its potential value as a biomarker for discriminating MF and MACEs in AF patients.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Sakakibara Heart Foundation.
The accurate early diagnosis and achievement of R0 resection in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remain formidable clinical challenges. Plectin-1, a protein that is overexpressed in PDAC, has been identified as a promising target for diagnostic applications. In this study, a novel dual-modality probe, designated PTP-QM-DOTA, was developed to specifically target plectin-1. The probe integrates the radionuclide 177Lu with a viscosity-responsive aggregation-induced emission (AIE) fluorophore, QM, thereby enabling both preoperative single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging and intraoperative fluorescence navigation. In comparison with a nontargeted control probe (HSP-QM-DOTA), PTP-QM-DOTA demonstrated a 23.95 ± 0.54-fold increase in fluorescence intensity in high-viscosity media (96% glycerol) relative to pure water, thus exhibiting pronounced viscosity-responsive behavior. The probe demonstrated high radiolabeling efficiency, excellent radiostability, and favorable biocompatibility, with no significant evidence of toxicity or organ damage observed. In vivo SPECT imaging clearly delineated PDAC tumors within 1 h postinjection, with tumor uptake reaching 6.44 ± 1.88% IA/g at 30 min postinjection. The AIE properties of the fluorophore substantially enhanced fluorescence intensity and the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) in tumor regions, enabling precise tumor localization. The collective findings of the present study establish the first evidence for 177Lu-PTP-QM-DOTA as a safe, reliable, and efficient dual-modality peptide probe with possible potential for integrated diagnosis and surgical guidance of PDAC.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Epithelial rests of Malassez (ERMs) constitute a 3-dimensional epithelial meshwork extending from the tooth apex to the junctional epithelium (JE). This position, coupled with observations from a variety of injury models, suggests that ERMs may be involved in sensing disruptions to the mechanical integrity of the periodontium. To test this hypothesis, finite element modeling was employed to predict strain states in tissues surrounding ERMs (e.g., the periodontal ligament [PDL], supracrestal connective tissues, and the JE), which, by virtue of their attachment to the tooth surface, experience distortional strains during mastication. An in vivo hyper-loading mouse model was employed to map these distortional strains to location-specific and time-dependent morphological changes in ERMs. Quantitative immunohistochemistry was used to interrogate ERMs for changes in the expression of Piezo1, β4 integrin, plectin, YAP, TRPV4, and phosphorylated FAK. Collagen and oxytalan fiber organization around ERMs was compared between normal- and hyper-loading conditions. Axin2CreERT2;R26RmTmG/+ mice were used to lineage-trace Wnt-responsive ERMs under normal and hyper-loading conditions, and Wnt signaling from ERMs and the JE was disrupted using K14CreERT2;Wlsfl/fl mice. Collectively, these analyses predicted that hyper-loading produced high distortional strains in the JE and supracrestal connective tissues, which correlated with sites of ERM enlargement. ERMs expressed mechanosensory proteins, whose levels were significantly elevated by hyper-loading. Load-activated ERMs were Wnt-responsive, and if Wnt secretion was blocked, then ERMs no longer expressed mechanosensory proteins and no longer enlarged in response to hyper-loading. A deterioration in the JE attachment and the PDL followed. Thus, the ERM network is positioned to sense distortional strains produced by mastication; they possess the molecular machinery to sense and respond to masticatory forces and, via a Wnt-dependent mechanism, coordinate tissue-level responses to mechanical loading in the PDL, supracrestal connective tissues, and the JE.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42410182
Skipped: PubMed ID 42400424 is a review article
To investigate the mechanism by which glycine inhibits chondrocyte ferroptosis and improves osteoarthritis (OA), primary rat chondrocytes were pre-treated with glycine prior to interleukin-1β (IL-1β) stimulation. Cellular viability, apoptosis, senescence, reactive oxygen species (ROS), lipid peroxide, Fe2+, and GSH level were determined. Transcriptomic analysis, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), and dual-luciferase reporter assay were employed to confirm the MafG-Plectin regulatory axis. Loss-of-function experiments using siRNA targeting Plectin or MafG validated the functional necessity of this axis. A rat OA model was established by anterior cruciate ligament transection (ACLT), and glycine was injected intra-articularly. Glycine pretreatment significantly improved IL-1β-induced chondrocyte dysfunction, inhibited ROS accumulation, lipid peroxidation, and Fe2+ overload, and upregulated SLC7A11 and GPX4. Glycine upregulated MafG, which directly bound the Plectin promoter to promote Plectin transcription. Silencing of either MafG or Plectin reversed glycine's protective effects, confirming the MafG-Plectin axis as an essential operative module. In OA rats, glycine alleviated cartilage degradation, improved bone microstructure, and upregulated MafG, Plectin, and GPX4; these effects were abolished by si-MafG. Collectively, glycine inhibits chondrocyte ferroptosis and improves OA through a dual mechanism involving MafG-mediated GSH synthesis and MafG-dependent Plectin upregulation, providing a potential therapeutic target for OA.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Neuroendocrine prostate cancer (NEPC) is a lethal subtype of prostate cancer (PCa) that emerges under androgen deprivation and is associated with therapeutic resistance. The contribution of volume-regulated anion channels (VRACs) to this process remains poorly understood. This study identified leucine-rich repeat-containing 8 subunit D (LRRC8D), a VRAC subunit, as the only family member consistently downregulated in NEPC and associated with neuroendocrine (NE)-like features. LRRC8D downregulation was accompanied by suppression of swelling-activated VRAC currents, increased synaptophysin (SYP) expression, decreased cisplatin sensitivity, and neurosecretory remodeling. Conversely, LRRC8D overexpression enhanced cisplatin-induced apoptosis, reduced colony formation, and suppressed tumor growth in xenograft models, including under cisplatin treatment. Consistent alterations in LRRC8D and SYP expression were also observed in enzalutamide-resistant patient-derived organoids. Mechanistically, RE1-silencing transcription factor (REST) promoted LRRC8D transcription. Functional analyses further demonstrated that CAV-1 acted upstream of LRRC8D, and LRRC8D negatively regulated STAT3 activation. Together, these findings indicate that LRRC8D influences PCa phenotype and platinum responsiveness, and implicate a regulatory axis involving LRRC8D and CAV-1/STAT3 signaling in NE-associated features of advanced PCa. Functional analyses further showed that CAV-1 acted upstream of LRRC8D, and LRRC8D negatively regulated STAT3 activation. Together, these findings indicate that LRRC8D influences PCa phenotype and platinum responsiveness and implicate a regulatory axis involving LRRC8D and CAV-1/STAT3 signaling in NE-associated features of advanced PCa.
In bundles of smooth muscle cells associated with mammalian organs of the urogenital and alimentary tract we have discovered and partly characterized a novel kind of mirror image-symmetrically organized cell-cell junctions which are not based on direct transcellular contacts of transmembrane proteins or surface glycoproteins but represent extensive plasma membrane regions coated with cytoplasmic plaque ridges. The parallel, regularly spaced, rather thick (25-40 nm) and mostly very long (often for the entire length of the cell) myofilament-anchoring plaques of these junctions contain not only the focal adhesion-associated proteins vinculin, plectin and talin but also abundant amounts of protein myozap recently discovered as a major component of the plaques of adherens junctions in epithelia and endothelia as well as of the composite junctions connecting cardiomyocytes. α5- and β1-integrins are identified as the most prominent transmembrane molecules of these special smooth muscle junctions. In contrast, the tetraspanin CD151 co-distributes only in part with the myozap-positive junctions. These junctions are furthermore negative for proteins of adhering junctions. The myozap-containing junctional strands alternate with caveolin/dystrophin-positive regions. Characteristically, these novel cell-cell junctions are separated by extracellular matrix including the basal laminae of the adjacent cells which frequently fuse to a single electron-dense lamella forming the symmetry plane. We propose that the myozap-containing junctional strands may have important mechanical functions enabling and coordinating the contraction of closely-packed smooth muscle cell bundles throughout the body.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
Na+ -Ca2+ exchanger 1 (NCX1), an antiporter that regulates the homeostasis of calcium and sodium ions contributes to neuroprotection elicited by ischemic preconditioning. In the brain, NCX1 is transcriptionally regulated by two gene promoters: NCX1-Br (brain) and NCX1-Ht (heart). Notably, the epigenetic mechanism involved in the methylation of cytosine (C) to form 5-methylcytosine (5mC) in neurons represses NCX1-Ht, but not NCX1-Br promoter activity. Importantly, hydroxylation of 5mC via ten eleven translocases (TET) enzymes leads to 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC), a marker of transcriptional activation. Herein, in ascorbic acid-treated SH-SY5Y cells TET3 isoform promoted 5hmC formation at NCX1-Ht promoter, but not at the level of NCX1-Br promoter, thus inducing NCX1 mRNA and protein up-regulation. Notably, TET3 physically interacted with the transcription factor GATA-binding factor 6 (GATA6), but not with RE1-silencing transcription factor (REST), and site-direct mutagenesis of GATA binding sites present on NCX1-Ht sequence blocked GATA6 and TET3 binding on NCX1 gene. Furthermore, GATA6 and TET3 protein levels were up-regulated in cortical neurons exposed to the neuroprotective hypoxic preconditioning (PC) stimulus followed by oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD/Rx), that caused an increase of DNA hydroxymethylation on NCX1-Ht promoter, an effect not observed in neurons exposed to OGD/Rx alone. Collectively, this study showed that in neurons the exposure to PC followed by OGD/Rx 72 h elicited the formation of GATA6/TET3 complex that, by binding NCX1-Ht promoter, epigenetically activates NCX1 gene transcription. Given the NCX1 neuroprotective role in PC followed by OGD/Rx, activating this epigenetic pathway could be a potential therapeutic target for stroke treatment.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
KMT2A (formerly MLL) gene rearrangements are common and clinically significant in acute leukemias, with outcomes influenced by the fusion partner. Over 100 fusion partners are known, but new ones continue to emerge. This study identified three novel partners-myocardin-related transcription factor B (MRTFB), sorbin and SH3 domain-containing 1 (SORBS1), and scavenger receptor cysteine-rich family member with 5 domains (SSC5D)-in pediatric and adult acute leukemia cases. Three cases were analyzed: a boy with B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia, a girl with acute myelomonocytic leukemia, and a woman with therapy-related acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Diagnostics included cytogenetic analysis, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), multiplex reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), whole genome sequencing (WGS), and confirmation of breakpoints by Sanger sequencing, with validation at DNA and RNA levels, using patient-specific primers. WGS identified three novel in-frame fusions: KMT2A::MRTFB, KMT2A::SORBS1, and KMT2A::SSC5D, all within the major KMT2A breakpoint region. All patients achieved complete remission with tailored therapy, including chemotherapy and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation where indicated. Follow-up demonstrated durable remissions ranging from 9 to 23 months at the time of reporting. This study expands the catalog of KMT2A fusion partners, highlighting MRTFB, SORBS1, and SSC5D as novel leukemia-associated genes. The findings underscore the value of WGS for comprehensive detection of rare genetic events, enabling improved molecular classification and prognostic assessment in KMT2A-rearranged leukemias.© 2026. Higher Education Press.
Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are key modulators of tumor growth, the tumor immune context, and treatment response. CAFs take on diverse phenotypes with distinct functions. Myofibroblastic CAFs (myCAFs) regulate extracellular matrix remodeling, while inflammatory CAFs (iCAFs) modulate immune infiltration. Further studies are required to validate biomarkers of CAF phenotypes and to identify means to therapeutically manipulate CAFs.Single-cell RNA sequencing analysis was used to identify markers of CAF phenotypes in CRC. CAF markers were validated and compared to clinical characteristics using patient-derived CAF cultures, fixed human CRC samples, and publicly available RNA sequencing data. Therapeutics were prioritized for their potential to inhibit the myCAF phenotype and nilotinib was selected for validation in patient-derived CAFs. Overall changes in CAFs were evaluated via RNA-seq, and results validated with in vitro experiments. Finally, the feasibility of altering CAF phenotypes to affect treatment response was evaluated in vivo.Here we identify disease-specific markers of colorectal CAFs that are functionally distinct, biologically identifiable, correlate with clinically relevant markers of disease, and can be therapeutically altered in vivo. High stromal expression of myCAF markers correlated with reduced infiltration of CD8+ T lymphocytes into the epithelial compartment compared to tumors with high stromal expression of iCAF markers. Nilotinib treatment inhibited myogenesis regulators myocardin and myocardin-related transcription factor A, which correlated with reduced expression of myCAF markers and extracellular matrix proteins and decreased tumor size in colorectal cancer-bearing mice when combined with anti-PD-1 therapy. We also identified PD-1 as a potential molecule that activates myocardin and myCAF expression, indicating a potential mechanism for increased response to the combination with anti-PD-1 therapy.These results highlight the feasibility of targeting CAF functions to improve therapeutic response, and support the investigation of nilotinib and anti-PD-1 therapy clinically.© 2026. The Author(s).
Arteriogenic erectile dysfunction (AED) results from insufficient arterial filling of the corpus cavernosum. Its complex pathophysiology is poorly understood, and current treatments have limitations. While electrical stimulation (ES) has been widely applied clinically for male diseases, its therapeutic targets in AED remain unexplored. This study aimed to investigate the hypothesis that ES ameliorates AED by improving the local immune microenvironment and inhibiting the pathological phenotypic transformation of cavernous smooth muscle cells (SMCs). An AED rat model was established via cuff-induced endothelial injury and a high-fat diet. Erectile function, histology, and molecular mechanisms were assessed using intracavernous pressure measurement, infrared thermography, immunohistochemistry, co-immunoprecipitation, and an in vitro macrophage-corpus cavernosum smooth muscle cells (CCSMCs) co-culture system. Our findings demonstrate that ES treatment significantly improved erectile function in the AED rat model. We discovered that macrophages were polarized towards the anti-inflammatory M2 phenotype following ES treatment. This polarization was directly associated with the upregulation of cylindromatosis (CYLD) and the subsequent inhibition of CX3CL1 release. Concurrently, Th2 cytokines released from these M2 macrophages further enhanced P300/Myocardin (Myocd) acetylation in SMCs, which critically inhibited their transformation towards a synthetic phenotype and prevented adverse vascular remodeling. This study demonstrates that crosstalk between macrophages and SMCs is an essential mechanism in ES-treated AED. We verify that ES-induced M2 macrophage polarization inhibits the detrimental phenotypic switching of CCSMCs, thereby preserving vascular integrity and improving erectile function. This process is pivotally regulated by the upregulation of CYLD and reduction of CX3CL1.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) dedifferentiation, a phenomenon found in virtually all vascular diseases, is characterized by a transcriptional switch from a contractile to a phenotypically modulated state. Myocardin (MYOCD) is a smooth muscle cell-restricted coactivator that is necessary and sufficient for the differentiation of VSMC through the transcriptional activation of SMC-restricted cytoskeletal and contractile genes. Despite 25 yr of research on MYOCD, the reliable expression of this protein continues to be poorly represented and understood. Accordingly, we generated a novel rat model carrying HA-tagged MYOCD to address pervasive disparities in the literature and elucidate MYOCD protein expression in vivo. Western blotting studies documented the highest MYOCD protein expression in aorta, bladder, and uterus, with low or undetectable expression in all other tissues of the rat, including heart. Predictive modeling supports the C-terminus of MYOCD to be most immunoreactive, where the HA tag and one other commercial immunogen reside. Of note, the latter immunogen was used to generate what appears to be the most trustworthy commercial antibody against MYOCD. In vitro transcription/translation and phosphatase treatment of ectopic and endogenous MYOCD protein reveal an intrinsically high molecular weight of MYOCD that has eluded prior reports. Importantly, we present the very first spatial expression profile of MYOCD protein in several mouse and rat tissues under baseline and vascular injury conditions. The results offer the SMC community new resources and insight into the reliable detection of MYOCD protein.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Endogenous MYOCD protein has eluded reliable detection due to pervasive commercial antibody failures, likely due to protein disorder. A CRISPR-generated 3xHA knock-in rat enabled the first in vivo spatial characterization of MYOCD, revealing its presence in SMC-rich tissues and, notably, within the microvasculature of SMC-poor organs. Phosphorylation largely accounts for the high molecular weight of MYOCD. Strikingly, MYOCD is detected in neointimal cells after vascular insult, suggesting persistence or reexpression during vascular remodeling.
In this issue of Developmental Cell, Gajda et al.1 identified the transcriptional partners and downstream targets of myocardin-related transcription factor A (MRTFA), a regulator of actin transcription and cancer cell stiffness. BK potassium channels emerged as pharmacological targets that stiffen cancer cells and enhance anti-tumor immune surveillance during metastasis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cellular stiffness impacts multiple steps of cancer metastasis, but mechanisms that regulate the stiffness of cancer cells remain poorly understood. Here, we identified potassium efflux and potassium calcium-activated channel subfamily M regulatory beta subunit 1 (KCNMB1), an auxiliary subunit of the large conductance calcium-activated potassium (BK) channels, as regulators of cellular stiffness downstream of myocardin-related transcription factor A (MRTFA). In primary pericytes, KCNMB1 knockdown increased cellular stiffness, which is consistent with the role of potassium efflux in promoting relaxation during excitation-contraction coupling. In a striking contrast, however, KCNMB1 knockdown decreased cancer cells' stiffness. Softer cancer cells were resistant to natural killer (NK) cell mediated cytotoxicity and the low KCNMB1 expression was associated with reduced survival in breast cancer patients. Importantly, pharmacological activation of BK channels reduced metastatic burden in mice and improved lysis of cancer cells by cytotoxic T lymphocytes. These results highlight the ionic regulation of stiffness in cancer cells and point to BK channel agonism as a therapeutic approach.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42219081 is a review article
Abnormalities in endometrial receptivity has been identified as a major barrier to successful embryo implantation. Endometrial receptivity refers to the conformational and biochemical changes occurring in the endometrial epithelial layer which make it adhesive and receptive to blastocyst attachment. This takes place during the mid-secretory phase of woman's menstrual cycle and is a result of a delicate interplay between numerous hormones, cytokines and other factors. Outside of this window, the endometrium is refractory to an implanting blastocyst. It has been shown that Notch ligands and receptors are dysregulated in the endometrium of infertile women. Mastermind Like Transcriptional Coactivator 1 (MAML1) is a known coactivator of the Notch signaling pathway. This study aimed to determine the role of MAML1 in regulating endometrial receptivity.The expression and localization of MAML1 in the fertile human endometrium (non-receptive proliferative phase versus receptive mid-secretory phase) were determined by immunohistochemistry. Ishikawa cells were used as an endometrial epithelial model to investigate the functional consequences of MAML1 knockdown on endometrial adhesive capacity to HTR8/SVneo (trophoblast cell line) spheroids. After MAML1 knockdown in Ishikawa cells, the expression of endometrial receptivity markers and Notch dependent and independent pathway members were assessed by qPCR. Two-tailed unpaired or paired student's t-test were used for statistical analysis with a significance threshold of P < 0.05.MAML1 was localized in the luminal epithelium, glandular epithelium and stroma of human endometrium and the increased expression identified in the mid-secretory phase was restricted only to the luminal epithelium (P < 0.05). Functional analysis using Ishikawa cells demonstrated that knockdown of MAML1 significantly reduced epithelial adhesive capacity (P < 0.01) to HTR8/SVneo (trophoblast cell line) spheroids compared to control. MAML1 knockdown significantly affected the expression of classical receptivity markers (SPP1, DPP4) and this response was not directly via hormone receptors. The expression level of Hippo pathway target Ankyrin repeat domain-containing protein 1 (ANKRD1) was also affected after MAML1 knockdown in Ishikawa cells.Our data strongly suggest that MAML1 is involved in regulating the endometrial adhesive capacity and may facilitate embryo attachment, either directly or indirectly through the Notch signaling pathway.
Background: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most common tumors, and its five-year survival is still very low despite of the advance of treatment strategies. The antitumor effect of ethanol extracted from radix of Actinidia chinensis (EERAC) were identified in human colon cancer cells, but the underlying mechanism remains unclear. Methods: Cell proliferation, migration, and invasion were measured with cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8), wound healing, and transwell assays. Cell apoptosis and cycle were detected by flow cytometry. Western blotting and qRT-PCR were used to measure expression of target molecules. Xenograft tumor assay was applied to detect the influence of EERAC on tumor growth. Results: we found that EERAC inhibited the cell viability, migration, and invasion of SW480 cells in a concentration dependent manner, but promoted apoptosis and the cell percentage in S phase significantly. The suppression of notch-signaling pathway molecules, Notch1, Jagged1, and c-Myc, by EERAC was confirmed using western blotting and immunohistochemical staining. The significant inhibition of tumor growth by EERAC was also observed. Meanwhile, EERAC remarkably reversed the effects of mastermind like transcriptional coactivator 1 (MAML1, activator of notch-signaling pathway) on cell survival of SW480. Conclusions: EERAC might be a promising chemotherapeutic agent for CRC treatment.© The author(s).
Lenvatinib, a first-line therapy for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), is frequently compromised by the development of acquired resistance. Although aberrant protein ubiquitination contributes to drug resistance, the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. In this study, we identify ubiquitin-specific protease 32 (USP32) as a clinically significant oncogene that is overexpressed in HCC and closely associated with aggressive tumor progression and lenvatinib resistance. USP32 knockdown markedly inhibits tumor growth, metastasis, and restores lenvatinib sensitivity both in vitro and in vivo, whereas USP32 overexpression aggravates malignant behaviors. Mechanistically, USP32 directly interacts with and deubiquitinates DEAD-box helicase 17 (DDX17) by cleaving K48-linked polyubiquitin chains, thereby stabilizing DDX17. Furthermore, DDX17 transcriptionally represses the tumor-suppressive microRNA miR-3163, leading to hyperactivation of the MAPK signaling pathway involved in lenvatinib resistance. Notably, combined treatment with the MAPK inhibitor selumetinib and lenvatinib synergistically overcomes drug resistance in lenvatinib-resistant xenograft models. Collectively, our findings identify USP32 as an important regulator of HCC malignancy and lenvatinib resistance via the DDX17/miR-3163/MAPK axis, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target in refractory HCC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Identifying novel targets that ameliorating dopaminergic neuron iron metabolism dysregulation may provide potential therapeutic strategies for Parkinson's disease (PD). Buddlejasaponin IVb (BJP-IVb) is the first natural product that can ameliorate iron regulatory protein 2 (IRP2)-mediated iron metabolism dysregulation in dopaminergic neuron to suppress PD. BJP-IVb may exert this bioactivity through novel target. However, the pharmacological target of BJP-IVb is unclear.This study aimed to discovery the potential novel target of BJP-IVb ameliorating dopaminergic neuron iron metabolism dysregulation in PD.BJP-IVb probe (BJP-IVb-P) were synthesized to identify the potential novel target by affinity-based protein profiling. The expression of DEAD-box helicase 17 (DDX17) was knocked down in vitro and in vivo to prove the potential novel target of BJP-IVb is DDX17.We proved that BJP-IVb could directly bind to DDX17. Dopaminergic neurons exhibit an elevated expression of DDX17 in PD. Dopaminergic neuron iron metabolism dysregulation and Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (STAT5) signaling pathway activation in PD could be alleviated by the knockdown of DDX17 in vitro and in vivo. The inhibitory effect of BJP-IVb on dopaminergic neuron iron metabolism dysregulation and JAK2-STAT5 signaling pathway activation in PD could be abolished by the knockdown of DDX17 in vitro and in vivo.This study first proved that DDX17 is a pharmacological target for ameliorating dopaminergic neuron iron metabolism dysregulation in PD, and BJP-IVb ameliorates dopaminergic neuron iron metabolism dysregulation by targeting DDX17.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Sepsis-induced cardiomyopathy (SICM) is a severe complication of sepsis, in which mitochondrial dysfunction contributes to poor outcomes. DEAD-box helicase 17 (Ddx17), a member of the DEAD-box RNA helicase family, is known to regulate mitochondrial function, but its role in SICM remains unclear. In this study, mice with cardiomyocyte-specific Ddx17 knockdown (Ddx17-cKD) and overexpression (Ddx17-OE) were generated, and sepsis models were established using cecal ligation and puncture. Mechanistic findings were further validated in vitro using immunoprecipitation and dual-luciferase assays. Ddx17 expression was markedly reduced in the cardiac tissues of septic mice and in lipopolysaccharide-treated cardiomyocytes. Knockdown of Ddx17 increased mitochondrial reactive oxygen species accumulation, enhanced cell death and decreased superoxide dismutase activity. In contrast, Ddx17 overexpression attenuated mitochondrial apoptosis and oxidative stress, restored adenosine triphosphate production and mitochondrial membrane potential and improved cardiac function in septic mice. Mechanistically, Ddx17 interacted with signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) to suppress transcription of the mitochondrial fission protein dynamin-related protein 1 while maintaining the level of the fusion protein mitofusin 1, thereby preserving mitochondrial integrity and cardiomyocyte homeostasis. These findings demonstrate that Ddx17 protects against sepsis-induced cardiomyopathy by regulating mitochondrial dynamics, reducing oxidative stress and preventing apoptosis, thereby highlighting Ddx17 as a potential therapeutic target for septic cardiac dysfunction.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Osteoporosis (OP) is characterized by impaired osteoblast-mediated bone formation and reduced mineralization, which increases fracture risk and challenges global skeletal health. Ddx17 (DEAD-box helicase 17) is implicated in multiple cancers, but its role and mechanism in bone biology, especially in osteoblast differentiation and osteoporosis pathogenesis remain unclear. In this study, we demonstrated that Ddx17 expression was significantly reduced in trabecular bones of patients with osteoporosis. During osteoblastic differentiation of MC3T3-E1 and C3H10T1/2 cells, Ddx17 expression levels increased gradually in a time-dependent manner. Loss-of-function and gain-of-function experiments revealed that Ddx17 promoted osteoblast proliferation and differentiation. Mechanistically, Ddx17 was a direct substrate of Prmt1 (protein arginine methyltransferase 1), which specifically catalyzed ADMA modification of Ddx17 at R426, thereby enhancing Ddx17 protein stability. Stabilized Ddx17 modulated the alternative splicing of Sh2b1 mRNA, thereby promoting the expression of Sh2b1-T1 while suppressing that of Sh2b1-T2. Rescue experiments demonstrated that re-expression of Sh2b1-T1, but not Sh2b1-T2, reversed the impairment of osteoblast differentiation triggered by Ddx17 knockdown. Taken together, these findings underscore the critical role of the Prmt1-Ddx17-Sh2b1 axis in regulating osteoblast differentiation and suggest this axis as a promising therapeutic target for osteoporosis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Male infertility, particularly non-obstructive azoospermia (NOA), remains a major clinical challenge. Although the testis is one of the most transcriptionally complex organs, stage-specific changes in total RNA abundance remain poorly characterized. Through total RNA staining, we identified distinct RNA content profiles across spermatogenic stages, supporting its value as a discriminative marker. Based on this, we developed RNA-DNA dual-parameter flow cytometry (RD-Cyto), a novel method that simultaneously measures RNA and DNA content at single-cell resolution for high-precision classification of testicular cells. Compared to conventional Hoechst-based cytometry, RD-Cyto offers superior resolution, enabling clear separation of pachytene (P) and diplotene (D) spermatocytes, first-time identification of metaphase I spermatocytes (MI), and subdivision of metaphase II spermatocytes (MII) into two subsets. To assess its utility in mechanistic research, we applied RD-Cyto to investigate the RNA-binding protein (RBP) DEAD-Box Helicase 17 (DDX17) and found that its deletion causes RNA accumulation in preleptotene spermatocytes and meiotic failure-demonstrating RD-Cyto's sensitivity to stage-specific regulatory disruptions. We further applied RD-Cyto to the clinical diagnosis of azoospermia. Combined with testicular fine-needle aspiration cytology (FNAC), RD-Cyto accurately evaluated spermatogenesis in all enrolled patients, showing 100 % concordance with testicular sperm retrieval outcomes. It successfully identified Sertoli cell-only syndrome (SCOS) in NOA, predicted sperm retrieval in rare NOA cases with residual spermatogenesis, and revealed spermatogenic and morphological abnormalities linked to pathogenic mutations in oligoasthenospermia (OAS). These findings establish RD-Cyto as a robust platform for both mechanistic investigation and diagnostic stratification in male infertility.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Endometrial cancer (EC), a type of uterine cancer, is witnessing a global increase in incidence. Despite advancement in diagnosis and treatment, metastatic or recurrent EC often exhibits a poor prognosis, necessitating novel therapeutic strategies. DEAD-box helicase 17 (DDX17) is implicated in several cancers. Our study aimed to uncover the biological function and molecular mechanism of DDX17 in EC.EC and matched adjacent normal tissues from 80 patients were analyzed; DDX17 mRNA/protein expression was quantified via RT-qPCR and immunoblotting in clinical specimens and cell lines (HEC-1A, HEC-1B, Ishikawa), with functional assays (proliferation/migration/invasion) performed following DDX17 overexpression in vitro, while xenograft modeling in BALB/c nude mice enabled in vivo validation through immunofluorescence and immunohistochemical staining; mechanistic studies employed RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP-PCR), m6A-specific RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP-PCR), and protein interaction analyses.DDX17 was significantly downregulated in EC tissues/cells, correlating with poor prognosis in clinical cohorts. Overexpression of DDX17 suppressed tumorigenesis both in vitro and in vivo through PI3K/AKT pathway inactivation. METTL3-mediated m6A modification stabilized DDX17 mRNA, with IGF2BP2 specifically recognizing m6A-modified transcripts. Critically, METTL3 ablation reversed DDX17 stabilization and abolished its tumor-suppressive effects, while PI3K inhibition (LY294002) phenocopied METTL3 restoration in rescuing DDX17 deficiency-induced oncogenicity.METTL3-mediated m6A modification stabilizes DDX17 to suppress EC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion through an IGF2BP2-dependent mechanism by inactivating the PI3K/AKT pathway.© 2025. The Author(s).
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is characterized by high programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression and abundant infiltration of non-malignant lymphocytes, which renders patients potentially suitable candidates for immune checkpoint blockade therapies. Palate, lung, and nasal epithelium clone (PLUNC) inhibit the growth of NPC cells and enhance cellular apoptosis and differentiation. Currently, the relationship between PLUNC (as a tumor-suppressor) and PD-L1 in NPC is unclear.We collected clinical samples of NPC to verify the relationship between PLUNC and PD-L1. PLUNC plasmid was transfected into NPC cells, and the variation of PD-L1 was verified by western blot and immunofluorescence. In NPC cells, we verified the relationship of PD-L1, activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3), and β-catenin by western blot and immunofluorescence. Later, we further verified that PLUNC regulates PD-L1 through β-catenin. Finally, the effect of PLUNC on β-catenin was verified by co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP).We found that PLUNC expression was lower in NPC tissues than in paracancer tissues. PD-L1 expression was opposite to that of PLUNC. Western blot and immunofluorescence showed that β-catenin could upregulate ATF3 and PD-L1, while PLUNC could downregulate ATF3/PD-L1 by inhibiting the expression of β-catenin. PLUNC inhibits the entry of β-catenin into the nucleus. Co-IP experiments demonstrated that PLUNC inhibited the interaction of DEAD-box helicase 17 (DDX17) and β-catenin.PLUNC downregulates the expression of PD-L1 by inhibiting the interaction of DDX17/β-catenin in NPC.
Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome is a systemic infectious disease caused by human immunodeficiency virus infection, which could attack the bones and heart. However, the relationship between Nuclear Complex Associated 3 Homolog (NOC3L) and DEAD box helicase 17 (DDX17) and acquired immunodeficiency complicated with viral myocarditis and osteoporosis is unclear. The acquired immune deficiency dataset GSE140713, GSE147162 and the osteoporosis dataset (GSE230665), and viral myocarditis dataset (GSE150392) configuration files were generated from gene expression omnibus. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were screened and performed weighted gene co-expression network analysis. Construction and analysis of protein-protein interaction network. Functional enrichment analysis, gene set enrichment analysis, immune infiltration analysis, gene expression heatmap, and comparative toxicogenomics database analysis were performed. TargetScan screens miRNAs of DEGs. Thousand three hundred thirty-five DEGs were identified. According to gene ontology, they are mainly concentrated in the regulation of RNA biosynthesis, cytoplasmic ribosome, and the DNA binding transcription factor activity. In Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analysis, they are mainly concentrated in TGF-β signal pathway, Notch signaling pathway, cAMP signaling pathway, and Apelin signaling pathway. Gene set enrichment analysis shows that DEGs are mainly enriched in cytoplasmic ribosome, transcriptional regulator activity, DNA binding transcription factor activity, TGF-β signal pathway, and Notch signal pathway. In the enrichment project of Metascape, tyrosine kinase receptor signaling, growth regulation, and enzyme-linked receptor protein signaling pathways can be seen in the gene ontology enrichment project. Four core genes (NOC3L, WDR46, SDAD1, and DDX17) were obtained. Core genes (NOC3L, WDR46, SDAD1, and DDX17) were low expressed in both acquired immunodeficiency and osteoporosis samples. Comparative toxicogenomics database analysis showed that core genes (NOC3L, WDR46, SDAD1, and DDX17) were associated with inflammation necrosis. The expressions of NOC3L and DDX17 are low in acquired immunodeficiency combined with viral myocarditis and osteoporosis.Copyright © 2024 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Rabies virus causes an estimated 59,000 annual fatalities worldwide and promising therapeutic treatments are necessary to develop. In this study, affinity tag-purification mass spectrometry was employed to delineate RABV glycoprotein and host protein interactions, and PDIA3/ERP57 was identified as a potential inhibitor of RABV infection. PDIA3 restricted RABV infection with follow mechanisms: PDIA3 mediated the degradation of RABV G protein by targeting lysine 332 via the selective macroautophagy/autophagy pathway; The PDIA3 interactor, AP3B1 (adaptor related protein complex 3 subunit beta 1) was indispensable in PDIA3-triggered selective degradation of the G protein; Furthermore, PDIA3 competitively bound with NCAM1/NCAM (neural cell adhesion molecule 1) to block RABV G, hindering viral entry into host cells. PDIA3 190-199 aa residues bound to the RABV G protein were necessary and sufficient to defend against RABV. These results demonstrated the therapeutic potential of biologics that target PDIA3 or utilize PDIA3 190-199 aa peptide to treat clinical rabies.Abbreviation: aa: amino acids; ANXA2: annexin A2; AP-MS: affinity tag purification-mass spectrometry; AP3B1: adaptor related protein complex 3 subunit beta 1; ATP6V1A: ATPase H+ transporting V1 subunit A; ATP6V1H: ATPase H+ transporting V1 subunit H; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; CHX: cycloheximide; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; DDX17: DEAD-box helicase 17; DmERp60: drosophila melanogaster endoplasmic reticulum p60; EBOV: Zaire ebolavirus virus; EV: empty vector; GANAB: glucosidase II alpha subunit; G protein: glycoprotein; GRM2/mGluR2: glutamate metabotropic receptor 2; HsPDIA3: homo sapiens protein disulfide isomerase family A member 3; IAV: influenza virus; ILF2: interleukin enhancer binding factor 2; KO: knockout; MAGT1: magnesium transporter 1; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MmPDIA3: mus musculus protein disulfide isomerase associated 3; NCAM1/NCAM: neural cell adhesion molecule 1; NGFR/p75NTR: nerve growth factor receptor; NGLY1: N-glycanase 1; OTUD4: OTU deubiquitinase 4; PDI: protein disulfide isomerase; PPIs: protein-protein interactions; RABV: rabies virus; RUVBL2: RuvB like AAA ATPase 2; SCAMP3: secretory carrier membrane protein 3; ScPdi1: Saccharomyces cerevisiae s288c protein disulfide isomerase 1; SLC25A6: solute carrier family 25 member 6; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; VSV: vesicular stomatitis virus.
DEAD-box helicase 17 (DDX17) is a typical member of the DEAD-box family with transcriptional cofactor activity. Although DDX17 is abundantly expressed in the myocardium, its role in heart is not fully understood. We generated cardiomyocyte-specific Ddx17-knockout mice (Ddx17-cKO), cardiomyocyte-specific Ddx17 transgenic mice (Ddx17-Tg), and various models of cardiomyocyte injury and heart failure (HF). DDX17 is downregulated in the myocardium of mouse models of heart failure and cardiomyocyte injury. Cardiomyocyte-specific knockout of Ddx17 promotes autophagic flux blockage and cardiomyocyte apoptosis, leading to progressive cardiac dysfunction, maladaptive remodeling and progression to heart failure. Restoration of DDX17 expression in cardiomyocytes protects cardiac function under pathological conditions. Further studies showed that DDX17 can bind to the transcriptional repressor B-cell lymphoma 6 (BCL6) and inhibit the expression of dynamin-related protein 1 (DRP1). When DDX17 expression is reduced, transcriptional repression of BCL6 is attenuated, leading to increased DRP1 expression and mitochondrial fission, which in turn leads to impaired mitochondrial homeostasis and heart failure. We also investigated the correlation of DDX17 expression with cardiac function and DRP1 expression in myocardial biopsy samples from patients with heart failure. These findings suggest that DDX17 protects cardiac function by promoting mitochondrial homeostasis through the BCL6-DRP1 pathway in heart failure.© 2024. The Author(s).
Mutations in the GBA1 (glucosylceramidase beta 1) gene cause the most common lysosomal storage disorder, Gaucher disease (GD), characterized by the lysosomal accumulation of glucosylceramide and lysosomal dysfunction. Downstream of defects in lysosomal-autophagosome fusion, GD cells display autophagic dysfunction. Immune activation and inflammation are also known features of GD pathogenesis. However, the precise link between autophagy and immune activation, and the tissue-specific nature of these pathologies, are yet to be determined. Here we summarize our recent manuscript, which probes the role of autophagy in stimulating a chronic innate immune response in a Drosophila GD model. The gut-brain axis is increasingly being implicated in disease pathology, and accordingly, we demonstrated gastrointestinal dysfunction and gut microbiome dysbiosis in GD flies. Moreover, intestinal cells display lysosomal-autophagic defects like those seen in the GD fly brain. Stimulation of autophagy with rapamycin treatment is sufficient to lower NF- κ B signaling in the gut. Our research suggests that autophagic impairment in GD flies drives microbiome dysbiosis and chronic immune activation, with deleterious consequences on organismal health. We highlight pharmacological activation of autophagy, targeting tissues such as the gut, as a potential therapeutic strategy in GD. Abbreviations AMP, antimicrobial peptide; DAMP, damage associated molecular pattern; GBA1, glucosylceramidase beta 1; LC3, microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; MEGF10, multiple EGF like domains 10; mTOR, mammalian target of rapamycin; PGRP, peptidoglycan recognition protein receptor; TRIF, Toll/IL-1R domain-containing adaptor-inducing IFN-β.© 2024 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.
Synapse loss is one of the most critical features in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and correlates with cognitive decline. Astrocytes mediate synapse elimination through multiple EGF-like domains 10 (MEGF10) pathways in the developing and adult brain to build the precise neural connectivity. However, whether and how astrocytes mediate synapse loss in AD remains unknown. We here find that the phagocytic receptor MEGF10 of astrocytes is significantly increased in vivo and in vitro, which results in excessive engulfment of synapses by astrocytes in APP/PS1 mice. We also observe that the astrocytic lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1 (LAMP1) is significantly elevated, colocalized with the engulfed synaptic puncta in APP/PS1 mice, and astrocytic lysosomes contain more engulfed synaptic puncta in APP/PS1 mice relative to wild type mice. Together, our data provide evidence that astrocytes excessively engulf synapses in APP/PS1 mice, which is mediated by increased MEGF10 and activated lysosomes. The approach targeting synapse engulfment pathway in astrocytes would be a potent therapy for AD.
It has been hypothesised that inhalational anaesthetics such as isoflurane (Iso) may trigger the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), while the gaseous anaesthetic xenon (Xe) exhibits many features of a putative neuroprotective agent. Loss of synapses is regarded as one key cause of dementia in AD. Multiple EGF-like domains 10 (MEGF10) is one of the phagocytic receptors which assists the elimination of synapses by astrocytes. Here, we investigated how β-amyloid peptide 1-42 (Aβ1-42), Iso and Xe interact with MEGF10-dependent synapse elimination. Murine cultured astrocytes as well as cortical and hippocampal ex vivo brain slices were treated with either Aβ1-42, Iso or Xe and the combination of Aβ1-42 with either Iso or Xe. We quantified MEGF10 expression in astrocytes and dendritic spine density (DSD) in slices. In brain slices of wild type and AAV-induced MEGF10 knock-down mice, antibodies against astrocytes (GFAP), pre- (synaptophysin) and postsynaptic (PSD95) components were used for co-localization analyses by means of immunofluorescence-imaging and 3D rendering techniques. Aβ1-42 elevated pre- and postsynaptic components inside astrocytes and decreased DSD. The combined application with either Iso or Xe reversed these effects. In the presence of Aβ1-42 both anaesthetics decreased MEGF10 expression. AAV-induced knock-down of MEGF10 reduced the pre- and postsynaptic marker inside astrocytes. The presented data suggest Iso and Xe are able to reverse the Aβ1-42-induced enhancement of synaptic elimination in ex vivo hippocampal brain slices, presumably through MEGF10 downregulation.
Oxygen-sensing and the hypoxia stress response play vital roles in physiological homeostasis. Subterranean species that are naturally adapted to hypoxia provide powerful tools for understanding the mechanisms of hypoxia tolerance. The plateau zokor Eospalax baileyi and the Gansu zokor Eospalax cansus, which inhabit the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau of China, and the blind mole rat Spalax galili, which lives in Israel, are all subterranean rodents adapted to hypoxic environments. Here, we showed that the T480S variant of the hypoxia-inducible factor-2ɑ (encoded by the endothelial PAS domain protein 1 gene, Epas1) in Chinese zokors stabilized EPAS1 by reducing phosphorylation, thereby regulating fibrosis and contributing to hypoxia adaptation on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau. In Israeli blind mole rats, variants at positions -2023/-1810 in the Epas1 regulatory region distinguish two abutting populations undergoing incipient sympatric speciation by altering the binding of cMYB and hepatocyte nuclear factor 4 gamma, linking transcriptional activity to the interferon mRNA transcription. This finding reveals an adaptive regulation of metabolism and O2 homeostasis by the Epas1 gene in adaptation to diverse habitats, providing evidence for both divergent and convergent functional molecular evolution.© 2026 Cao et al.
Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a progressive cardiopulmonary disorder characterized by vascular remodeling, abnormal vasoconstriction of small lung arteries, and right heart failure. Hypoxia causes vascular damage, leading to vessel stenosis or occlusion by aberrant endothelial cells, hypertrophy of the tunica media, and thrombus formation. But the precise molecular mechanisms underlying the pathology of PH have been uncertain.To investigate the pathogenic role of Myl (myosin light chain) 9/12 in PH, we utilized the Sugen/hypoxia mouse model, generated by administration of the VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor) receptor inhibitor SU5416 under hypoxic conditions (10% O2). Lung tissues of patients with PH and human lung microvascular endothelial cells were used to examine their endothelial changes. Platelet-specific Myl9-deficient mice were generated to determine the contribution of platelet-derived Myl9 to the development of PH. The therapeutic efficacy of the anti-Myl9/12 antibody was evaluated by hemodynamics, histological analyses, and single-cell RNA sequencing. Furthermore, serum MYL9, MYL12A, and MYL12B levels were measured in patients with PH and analyzed for clinical correlation.We identified microthrombi containing Myl9/12 in both patients with PH and the PH mouse model. Platelet-derived Myl9 partially contributed to PH development by promoting cellular infiltration. Furthermore, hypoxia upregulated the expression of Myl9/12 through EPAS1 (endothelial PAS domain protein 1) in proliferated lung vascular endothelial cells and induced the release of Myl9/12 into the extracellular space. Anti-Myl9/12 antibody treatment attenuated PH in the mouse model by reducing microthrombus formation, inflammatory cell infiltration, tissue hypoxia, and vascular remodeling. The established PH in Sugen/hypoxia mice was also attenuated by the treatment with anti-Myl9/12 antibody. Moreover, serum levels of Myl9 but not MYL12A or MYL12B levels reflected the severity of PH in patients.These findings reveal that Myl9/12 play a pathogenic role in developing vascular lesions of PH and could be a new therapeutic target for PH.
A recent study reported that endothelial PAS domain protein 1 (EPAS1; hypoxia-inducible factor 2α) acts downstream of PGC-1α to regulate the slow-twitch muscle fiber program in mice, yet its role in human physiology and exercise adaptation remains unclear. The aim of this study was threefold: (1) to investigate EPAS1 gene expression in human skeletal muscle and its association with muscle fiber composition and the expression of endurance-related genes; (2) to determine how EPAS1 expression responds to aerobic training; and (3) to examine whether EPAS1 genetic variation is linked to aerobic capacity, hemoglobin, and athletic status. The study involved 1234 subjects, including 943 athletes and 291 untrained individuals. EPAS1 gene expression was significantly higher in endurance athletes compared with power athletes (p = 0.011) and was positively associated with the proportion of slow-twitch muscle fibers in the vastus lateralis of untrained subjects (p = 0.0008) and athletes (p = 0.0033). EPAS1 expression was higher in females (p = 0.0028) and negatively associated with smoking status (p = 0.0007). Moreover, EPAS1 expression showed positive association with endurance-related genes, including ANGPT2, CKM, CPT1B, EPOR, FNDC5, HIF1A, KDR, MYBPC3, NFATC4, NOS3, PPARA, PPARD, PPARGC1A, UCP2, and VEGFA. Analysis of 24 publicly available skeletal muscle transcriptomic datasets demonstrated that EPAS1 expression increased significantly (meta-analysis p = 9.2 × 10-5) following aerobic training. Finally, genetically predicted higher EPAS1 expression (i.e., carriage of the EPAS1 rs6756667 A allele) was positively associated with endurance athlete status in both sexes (p = 0.0004) and with VO₂max (p = 0.046) and hemoglobin (p = 0.041) in male athletes. These findings potentially identify EPAS1 as an important genetic factor associated with muscle fiber composition, endurance-related phenotypes, and adaptation to aerobic training.© 2026 The Author(s). Physiological Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Physiological Society and the American Physiological Society.
In this study, we investigate the mechanisms by which ischemia-free liver transplantation (IFLT) mitigates ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) and identify key therapeutic targets. Clinical data from 200 patients were collected to evaluate perioperative recovery and overall outcomes. Liver tissues were obtained from donors at the preprocurement, end-of-preservation, and postperfusion stages. Gene expression profiles were examined using single-cell transcriptomic analysis. Phenotypic and functional characteristics were evaluated using flow cytometry, and protein expression was assessed using immunofluorescence, immunohistochemistry, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Animal models of IRI were employed to examine the effects of HIF-2α inhibition in vivo. PT-2385 was administered to inhibit HIF-2α, and 100 µg of anti-mouse CD8α monoclonal antibody was injected to deplete CD8+ T cells. Patients in the IFLT group exhibited a lower incidence of early allograft dysfunction and a higher 1-yr survival rate. Differential gene expression analysis of IRI-related genes in 14 paired liver samples from conventional liver transplantation revealed significant upregulation of HIF-2α in postreperfusion tissues, predominantly expressed in CD69+CD103-CD8+ T cells. The up-regulated genes were enriched in TNF-related signaling pathways. Inhibition of HIF-2α reduced the number of CD69+CD103-CD8+ T cells and alleviated liver injury in vivo. In IFLT, genes in this pathway were not significantly upregulated. Under HIF-2α stimulation, CD69+CD103-CD8+ T cells exacerbate organ and tissue injury through TNF-related signaling. In IFLT, the absence of significant pathway upregulation suggests effective prevention of IRI.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
BACKGROUND: Mitral stenosis (MS) causes chronic pressure overload and secondary pulmonary hypertension, which are associated with activation of hypoxia-inducible pathways. This study investigated the circulating levels of hypoxia-inducible factor-2α (Endothelial PAS domain protein 1-EPAS1) in patients with MS and their relationship with disease severity. METHODS: This prospective study included 69 patients diagnosed with rheumatic MS and an equal number of age- and sex-matched healthy individuals. Hypoxia-inducible factor-2α (HIF-2α) levels were assessed using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) along with conventional biomarkers, and all patients underwent echocardiographic assessments. Statistical comparisons were performed using appropriate parametric or non-parametric tests, and relationships were evaluated using Spearman’s rank correlation coefficients. RESULTS: HIF-2α levels were significantly higher in patients with MS than in the controls (median 5.2 vs. 4.7; p = 0.0275). Patients with MS also had higher high-sensitivity cardiac troponin T levels (median 7.7 vs. 4.9, p = 0.0328) than controls. HIF-2α was weakly positively correlated with systolic pulmonary artery pressure (ρ = 0.28, p = 0.001), left atrial diameter (ρ = 0.22, p = 0.012), and N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide level (ρ = 0.29, p = 0.014). HIF-2α levels did not significantly correlate with the mitral valve area or mean transmitral gradient. CONCLUSION: Elevated HIF-2α levels in patients with MS are correlated with pulmonary hypertension and cardiac stress. These findings support the involvement of hypoxia-inducible pathways in the pathophysiology of MS. However, HIF-2α elevation is modest and its clinical utility as a biomarker for MS is currently limited.
Sherpa highlanders exhibit remarkable tolerance to hypoxia, most likely due to genetic adaptations shaped by natural selection at high altitude. This study examined the roles of endothelial PAS domain protein 1 (EPAS1) and egl-9 family hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (EGLN1) in the genetic mechanisms underlying this adaptation.Blood samples were collected from 56 Sherpa highlanders residing in Namche Bazaar (3440 m) and 25 non-Sherpa lowlanders in Kathmandu (1300 m). Samples were measured for serum erythropoietin (EPO) concentrations, genetic variants of EPAS1 (rs13419896:G>A; rs4953354:A>G) and EGLN1 (rs1435166:G>A; rs2153364:A>G), and mRNA expression levels of the EPAS1 and EGLN1.Oxygen saturation (SpO2) was significantly lower in Sherpas at high altitude than in non-Sherpas at low altitude, consistent with a hypoxic state. However, serum EPO concentrations in Sherpas were comparable to those of non-Sherpas, despite the expected hypoxia-driven stimulation of EPO production. Genotyping revealed significantly lower frequencies of the wild-type alleles of EPAS1 and EGLN1 in Sherpas compared with non-Sherpas. These genetic patterns were linked to markedly reduced mRNA expression levels of both genes in Sherpa highlanders.High-altitude adaptive genetic variants in EPAS1 and EGLN1 are associated with reduced systemic mRNA expression of these genes and a blunted EPO response in Sherpa highlanders, suggesting transcriptional modulation of the hypoxia-induced factor pathway under chronic hypoxia. This attenuated hypoxic response manifests as the tolerance to hypoxia in Sherpa highlanders, enabling Sherpas to adapt to high-altitude hypoxia.© 2026 The Author(s). Annals of Human Genetics published by University College London (UCL) and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Tris(1,3-dichloro-2-propyl) phosphate (TDCPP), a prevalent environmental pollutant, has been associated with an increased risk of Parkinson's disease (PD), yet the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. To systematically elucidate these mechanisms, we employed an integrated computational and experimental approach. Network toxicology and molecular docking initially identified endothelial PAS domain protein 1 (EPAS1) as a high-priority target of TDCPP, exhibiting the strongest predicted binding affinity (-8.3 kcal/mol). This prediction was rigorously validated through in vivo experiments. Subchronic exposure of C57BL/6J mice to TDCPP (0, 0.03 0.3, 3, 30, and 300 mg/kg/day for 30 days) induced dose-dependent motor deficits, including reduced locomotor activity, impaired coordination in the pole test, and anxiety-like behavior. Pathological analysis revealed a substantial loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive (TH+) dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (nearly 50% in the high-dose group) and a significant decrease in TH protein levels. Crucially, TDCPP exposure consistently upregulated EPAS1 protein expression in the midbrain. Finally, 100-ns molecular dynamics simulations confirmed the stability of the TDCPP-EPAS1 complex, demonstrating a rigid binding pocket and identifying Cys339 as a key interacting residue (96% contact fraction). Our study demonstrates that TDCPP promotes PD-like motor dysfunction and dopaminergic neurodegeneration, likely through a mechanism involving the direct targeting and upregulation of EPAS1 within the neurovascular unit. These findings provide novel, multi-layered evidence linking this common environmental contaminant to PD pathogenesis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Endometriosis is a common disease among women of childbearing age, and endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS), a response involved in regulating protein homeostasis, has been linked to its pathogenesis. To identify ERS-related hub genes, this study sequentially employed differential expression analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction, and three machine learning algorithms. These methods led to the identification of four hub genes: Von Willebrand factor (VWF), vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM1), endothelial PAS domain protein 1 (EPAS1), and coagulation factor VIII (F8). Unsupervised cluster analysis was conducted to categorize samples into ERS clusters, and the CIBERSORT algorithm was used to calculate immune infiltration scores, revealing two stable clusters. Cluster B was defined as "immune-enriched" with significantly higher immune scores, while Cluster A was "less immune-enriched". Functional enrichment analysis of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between the clusters highlighted cell adhesion and regulation of immune cell activation as key to cluster-specific phenotypes. A diagnostic model built with the four hub genes showed robust utility via validation curves, confirming their clinical relevance. DEGs from each cluster were screened in the Connectivity Map database to identify cluster-specific therapeutic agents. RT-qPCR and immunohistochemistry (IHC) validated that both mRNA and protein levels of the four hub genes were elevated in endometriosis tissues, supporting the bioinformatics findings. Overall, this study links ERS-related hub genes to endometriosis subtyping, immune infiltration, and diagnostics, providing a basis for personalized treatments and a potential clinical tool.© 2025. The Author(s).
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most common malignant tumors in the digestive system. Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) is a promising strategy for CRC treatment, but its limited efficacy poses a challenge. Bioinformatics methods were used to screen ferroptosis-related genes in CRC. Cellular biology methods investigated endothelial PAS domain protein 1 (EPAS1) impact on cellular characteristics, stemness, and ferroptosis. Finally, in vivo experiments validated EPAS1's influence on anti-PD-1 therapy efficacy. We have found that EPAS1 is a risk gene in CRC, which can inhibit the growth, invasion, and stemness of colon cancer cells both in vitro and in vivo, and promote ferroptosis. Mechanistically, caveolin 1 (CAV1) regulates the expression of von Hippel-Lindau tumor suppressor (VHL) to inhibit the ubiquitination of EPAS1, increase its stability, further enhance the expression of nuclear receptor coactivator 4 (NCOA4) and autophagy-lysosome formation, leading to cell iron overload and inducing ferroptosis. Our study confirms EPAS1 regulates ferroptosis, impacting epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and stemness in CRC cells, and highlights its role in ICB. These findings inform CRC treatment.© 2025 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
The aim of this study was to determine changes in endothelial PAS domain protein-1 (EPAS-1) levels, a biomarker proven to increase with hypoxia, at the time of diagnosis and after treatment in addition to laboratory parameters and scoring systems examined at the time of admission in patients with pulmonary thromboembolism.The study included 60 pulmonary embolism (PE) patients followed at the Cardiology clinic and 60 control participants with similar demographic characteristics. Laboratory parameters determined at the time of admission were examined. PE risk and severity scores were calculated, and EPAS-1 levels were also measured. To determine the response, EPAS-1 levels were checked 3 days later and compared with the control group.There were no differences between the two groups in terms of demographic characteristics and comorbidities. EPAS-1 levels were higher at the time of diagnosis compared to the control group [(3.6 ± 1.42/1.57 ± 0.45), p < 0.001]. EPAS-1 levels were significantly positively correlated with pulmonary embolism severity index (PESI) severity score and risk score in the patient group. EPAS-1 levels decreased after treatment in the patients, and the tendency to decrease was different according to the types of treatment. In the patients who died, EPAS-1 levels continued to increase despite treatment (p = 0.014).Our study is important in that EPAS-1 levels were correlated with scoring systems and other laboratory parameters used in PE patients, and that it can be used as a predictor in the diagnosis of the disease and play a complementary role in the evaluation of treatment response.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42369965 is a review article
Liancheng white ducks have a distinctive "white feathers, black beak, and green feet" phenotype, making them a useful model for studying pigmentation traits in waterfowl. The previous study found that the F1 generation of Liancheng white ducks crossed with white-feathered ducks and hemp-feathered ducks were all gray-black in color. This indicates the specificity and complexity of melanin deposition in Liancheng white ducks, which makes the selection and breeding of pigment traits through phenotyping difficult. The aim of this study was to investigate the candidate transcriptomic regulatory signals of melanogenesis in Liancheng white ducks. Skin, mouth skin, foot skin, liver, and muscle samples were collected from 130-day-old Liancheng white ducks. Morphological differences were observed via histological analysis, and extraction-based pigment levels were determined. The results showed that melanin granules were clearly observed in tissues other than the liver and were distributed mainly in the basal layer of the epidermis and around feather follicles; the pigment values in the tissues decreased in the order mouth skin > liver > foot skin > muscle and skin. However, the relatively high liver value should be interpreted cautiously because obvious melanin granule deposition was not observed histologically. Whole-transcriptome sequencing was performed on mouth skin and skin samples. In total, 3074 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were screened; upregulated genes associated with melanogenesis included melanocyte inducing transcription factor (MITF) and tyrosinase (TYR); downregulated genes included agouti signaling protein (ASIP) and adenylate cyclase 2 (ADCY2). Eighteen differentially expressed microRNAs (DEmiRNAs) were identified. Based on target prediction and pathway enrichment analysis, novel_290 and apl-miR-11588-3p were identified as candidate miRNAs potentially associated with melanogenesis-related pathways, and their predicted target genes included phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) and Janus kinase 1 (JAK1). Additionally, 364 differentially expressed long noncoding RNAs (DElncRNAs) were identified; TCONS_00063335 and TCONS_00019814 were identified as candidate lncRNAs potentially associated with melanogenesis-related genes, including TYR and TYRP1. A putative ceRNA network was constructed based on the predicted miRNA-mRNA and miRNA-lncRNA relationships, and ENSAPLT00000025522-apl-miR-11588-3p-MAPK8IP3 was identified as a candidate network relationship associated with MAPK-related pigmentation pathways. However, because this relationship was inferred mainly from bioinformatic prediction and expression association analysis, further functional validation is required to confirm whether it contributes to melanogenesis regulation. These findings provide candidate transcriptomic and noncoding RNA information for the further investigation of tissue-specific pigmentation in Liancheng white ducks.
Stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) provides excellent local control for localized prostate cancer (PC); however, systemic relapse remains the primary cause of death in high-risk patients, underscoring the need to understand and therapeutically address radiation-induced immune suppression. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized myeloid checkpoint pathway driven by glycoprotein nonmetastatic B (GPNMB⁺) myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) as a dominant systemic response to clinical SBRT and demonstrate a tractable strategy to counter it.We used paired peripheral blood samples from patients treated with SBRT to measure systemic MDSCs by flow cytometry, followed by ex vivo functional assays with patients' peripheral blood mononuclear cells. For further characterization, we used a syngeneic PC RM-9 tumor model. quantitative polymerase chain reaction and luciferase assays determined the mechanism observed.We observed a selective and reproducible expansion of GPNMB⁺ MDSCs accompanied by enhanced T-cell suppression. GPNMB blockade in patients' peripheral blood mononuclear cells rapidly and consistently restored T-cell activity, directly supporting the clinical feasibility of targeting this pathway. Likewise, in tumor-bearing mice, radiation upregulated GPNMB on MDSCs and its ligand syndecan-4 on tumor-infiltrating T cells. Therapeutically, combining anti-GPNMB antibody with radiation significantly improved local tumor control and reduced metastatic burden compared with radiation alone and outperformed programmed death-ligand 1 blockade. Transcriptomic and mechanistic analyses identified melanocyte-inducing transcription factor as a key regulator of radiation-induced GPNMB expression.Together, these findings define an actionable radiation therapy→ MDSC → GPNMB myeloid checkpoint that suppresses T-cell immunity in PC and demonstrate that targeting this pathway reverses radiation-induced immune suppression across human and murine systems. This work establishes a strong translational rationale for integrating MDSC-targeted therapy with SBRT to improve systemic control in localized high-risk PC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The Drosophila activity-regulated cytoskeletal-associated protein (dArc1) can facilitate viral-like synaptic transfer of its own mRNA through dArc1 capsid formation. This transfer promotes synaptic maturation at the Drosophila neuromuscular junction and shows conservation to the mammalian neural synapse through the dArc1 mammalian ortholog, Arc. Recently, we established that dArc1 can interact with several transcripts other than its own in Drosophila including the transcript of muscleblind (Mbl), an RNA splicing factor known to be involved in neuronal and muscle development. Here, we demonstrate this interaction is further conserved to Arc and the mammalian Mbl ortholog Muscleblind Like Splicing Regulator 1 (Mbnl1). In the mouse neuro2a (N2A) cell line, immunoprecipitation of Arc protein enriches for both the Arc and Mbnl1 transcript. Upon differentiation of N2A cells, the ability of Arc to bind its own transcript and Mbnl1 are both abolished while potassium stimulation of these cells restored Arc interactions with both transcripts, indicating that this interaction is enhanced by neuronal activity. This interaction is further conserved to the mammalian central nervous system, where Mbnl1 shows increased colocalization with Arc protein in the dentate gyrus of foot-shocked mice. Furthermore, we demonstrate that both Arc and Mbnl1 RNA can be detected in extracellular vesicles (EVs), and that Mbnl1, unlike the Arc transcript, is not directly encapsulated by Arc protein. We additionally observe MblA crosses the Drosophila NMJ, likely within EVs, and postsynaptic MblA accumulation is dependent on presynaptic pools of dArc1. Taken together, our data suggest that Arc protein interacts with Mbnl1 RNA in an activity-dependent manner and this interaction may facilitate transsynaptic transfer of Mbnl1 RNA through EVs with implications for neurodevelopment.
The cosmetic application of arbutin (AR) has recently been challenged due to concerns regarding the skin toxicity associated with its metabolite, hydroquinone (HQ). While the derivatization of AR provides a strategy to promote stability, the multistep and complicated chemical synthesis restricts its industrial production. The present study reported a naturally derived AR derivative, 6'-O-caffeoylarbutin (CA), which is hypothesized to resist hydrolysis to HQ owing to the conjugation effect and steric hindrance, resulting in better stability. To verify this hypothesis, the degradation of CA and AR was investigated using high-performance liquid chromatography with diode-array detection. The skin-lightening substances, AR and caffeic acid, were found in the degradation products of CA under acidic conditions, which also contained lower quantities of HQ compared to that generated by AR. However, CA was not degraded under enzymatic conditions, exhibiting better stability, which might contribute to its prolonged efficacy and reduced toxicity. The long-lasting skin-lightening efficacy of CA was further verified in a zebrafish drug-withdrawal model. Notably, Mechanistic investigations revealed that CA disrupts melanosome maturation and trafficking by modulating the melanocyte-inducing transcription factor-regulated pathway, providing molecular insights into its skin-lightening efficacy.© 2026 Wiley‐VHCA AG.
The present case report focuses on Waardenburg syndrome (WS), which occurs with a frequency of 1/40,000 and is manifested by neurosensory deafness, pigmentation deficiencies of the skin, hair and iris of the eye, and various tissue defects originating from the neural crest. WS is a genetically heterogeneous disease classified into four clinical and genetic phenotypes. In addition, it is caused by mutations in the following genes: Paired box 3 (PAX3), Endothelin 3, Endothelin Receptor Type B, Melanocyte Inducing Transcription Factor, Snail Family Transcriptional Repressor 2 and SRY-Box Transcription Factor 10. The present study focuses mainly on the structure and function of the pax3 gene and describes the case of a 33-year-old male, in whom a thorough clinical evaluation of physical characteristics and a detailed patient and family history was performed prior to concluding that the patient had WS. To confirm the diagnosis, genetic counseling was recommended and molecular genetic testing using next generation sequencing (NGS) methods was suggested. NGS revealed a novel c.209G>A (p.Cys70Tyr) mutation in the PAX3 gene, suggesting that this method is beneficial for disease screening, genetic diagnosis and counseling. The purpose of the present report is to assess the novel PAX3 gene mutation and its association with WS by analyzing the data from the case and the existing international literature, and by presenting further documented clinical cases. The present study is important due to the discovery of a new mutation, which may contribute to the understanding of the correlation between genotypes and phenotypes, aiding the field of genetic counseling. In addition, the present research study may aid the identification of potential diagnostic and therapeutic approaches for WS.Copyright: © 2025 Zafiri et al.
Hypertension-induced cardiac hypertrophy constitutes the principal cause of heart failure, malignant arrhythmias, and sudden cardiac death. Nek7 (NIMA-Related Kinase 7), a member of the serine/threonine kinase family, is a multifunctional protein kinase that plays a crucial role in regulating the cell cycle, mitosis, and inflammation, but its role in cardiac hypertrophy remains unclear.We subjected AAV9-cTnT-si-Nek7 mice to pressure overload by means of transverse aortic constriction and evaluated cardiac function, cardiac hypertrophy, and inflammasome activation. In neonatal mouse cardiomyocytes treated with Ang (angiotensin) II, the effects of si-Nek7 (small interfering RNA targeting Nek7) or NLRP3 (NLR Family, Pyrin Domain-Containing 3 Protein) inhibition on cardiomyocyte hypertrophy were examined. The effect of Nek7 in regulating cardiac hypertrophy was examined by administering si-MBNL1 (muscleblind-like splicing regulator 1) through tail vein knockdown in transverse aortic constriction treated mice.Nek7 expression was significantly upregulated in both transverse aortic constriction induced cardiac hypertrophy models in vivo and Ang II-stimulated neonatal mouse cardiomyocytes in vitro. Knockdown of Nek7 attenuated Ang II-induced cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and inhibited the activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome. Knockdown of Nek7 with AAV9-si-Nek7 significantly improved cardiac function and reduced hypertrophy in transverse aortic constriction mice. Conversely, Nek7 overexpression exacerbated hypertrophy and promoted NLRP3 inflammasome assembly, leading to pyroptosis via ROS (reactive oxygen species)-dependent pathways. Mechanistically, Nek7 directly bound to NLRP3, and its prohypertrophic effects were abrogated by NLRP3 inhibition. Additionally, MBNL1, as an RNA-binding protein, binds to Nek7 mRNA, thereby regulating Nek7 transcription and further affecting its expression level. MBNL1 was identified as an upstream regulator of Nek7, with knockdown of MBNL1 suppressing Nek7 expression and alleviating cardiac hypertrophy in vivo.Nek7 drives pathological cardiac hypertrophy by activating the NLRP3 inflammasome and promoting cardiomyocyte pyroptosis, with MBNL1 acting as an upstream regulator. Targeting the MBNL1-Nek7-NLRP3 axis may offer a novel therapeutic strategy for preventing cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure.
Regression traits such as pigmentation loss in cave-dwelling species offer powerful models for understanding evolutionary mechanisms under extreme environments. In this study, we investigated the genetic and evolutionary mechanisms underlying pigmentation loss in the cavefish Triplophysa rosa, a depigmented, eyeless species endemic to subterranean habitats. Compared with its surface-dwelling relative T. stenura, T. rosa exhibited significantly reduced expression of melanogenesis genes, indicating transcriptional repression of pigmentation pathways. Further analysis revealed a novel splicing site mutation in melanocyte inducing transcription factor a (mitfa), which results in a 63-nt deletion and loss of 21 amino acids in the activation domain. Functional rescue assays in zebrafish confirmed that the loss of 21 amino acids in Mitfa severely compromises melanin synthesis. Additionally, a premature stop codon in tyrosinase-related protein 1a (tyrp1a) was detected, which may also contribute to the depigmented phenotype. Evolutionary analyses indicated that pigmentation-specific genes in the T. rosa lineage are under relaxed purifying selection, consistent with weakened selective constraints on pigmentation in cave environments. Collectively, our findings indicate that a splice-site mutation in mitfa, acting against a background of relaxed selection on pigmentation genes, contributes to pigmentation loss in T. rosa, offering integrated proximate (molecular) and evolutionary insights into the troglomorphic traits in cavefish.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution.
Enhanced cholesterol biosynthesis is a hallmark metabolic characteristic of cancer, exerting an oncogenic role by supplying intermediate metabolites that regulate intracellular signaling pathways. The pharmacological blockade of cholesterol biosynthesis has been well documented as a promising therapeutic approach in cancer. Particularly, cholesterol biosynthesis is linked to macroautophagy/autophagy and lysosome metabolism, with the engagement of the critical autophagy regulators like MTOR to be fully activated by lysosomal cholesterol trafficking and accumulation. Previous studies have primarily focused on the role of cholesterol biosynthesis in tumor cell-intrinsic biological processes, whereas its involvement in tumor immune evasion and the underlying mechanisms related to autophagy or lysosome metabolism remain elusive. Herein, through bioinformatics analysis we discovered a negative correlation between cholesterol biosynthesis and the score of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes in cancers. Inhibition of tumor cell cholesterol biosynthesis leads to increased infiltration and activation of CD8+ T cells in the tumor microenvironment, which is largely responsible for the impairment of tumor growth. Mechanistically, cholesterol biosynthesis inhibition impairs the activation of MTOR at lysosomes, thereby promoting the nuclear translocation of TFEB and downstream lysosome biosynthesis, facilitating the degradation of CD274/PD-L1 within lysosomes in tumor cells. Ultimately, the HMGCR-MTOR-LAMP1 axis that connects cholesterol, lysosome and tumor immunology, predicts poor response to immunotherapy and worse prognosis of patients with melanoma. These findings unveil an immunomodulatory role of tumorous cholesterol biosynthesis via the regulation of CD274 lysosomal degradation. Targeting cholesterol biosynthesis holds promise as a potential therapeutic strategy in cancer, particularly when combined with immune checkpoint blockade.Abbreviations: ATG5, autophagy related 5; CD274/PD-L1, CD274 molecule; CQ, chloroquine; CTLA4, cytotoxic T-lymphocyte associated protein 4; CHX, cycloheximide; EIF4EBP1, eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; GSVA, gene set variation analysis; GZMB, granzyme B; HMGCR, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase; IFNG/IFN-γ, Interferon gamma; IHC, Immunohistochemistry; LAMP1, lysosomal associated membrane protein 1; MITF, melanocyte inducing transcription factor; MTOR, mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; NK, natural killer; NSCLC, non-small cell lung cancer; PBMC, peripheral blood mononuclear cell; PDCD1/PD-1, programmed cell death 1; qRT-PCR, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction; SKCM, skin cutaneous melanoma; TCGA, The Cancer Genome Atlas; TFE3, transcription factor binding to IGHM enhancer 3; TFEB, transcription factor EB; TIL, tumor infiltrated lymphocyte; TME, tumor microenvironment; Treg, regulatory T.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 30285347
Repeat expansions of short nucleotide sequences underlie over 40 neuromuscular diseases, including myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1). The DM1 CUG repeat RNA is thought to accumulate in RNA nuclear foci that sequester RNA-binding proteins, including muscleblind-like splicing regulator 1 (MBNL1). To understand the composition and formation of such nuclear foci, we employed quantitative imaging in a patient-derived myotube model. We find that most "foci" are comprised of single RNAs and that these single RNA species contribute to the sequestration of MBNL1 protein. Rare foci can contain upwards of 25 distinct RNA species, but these foci form from transcriptional bursting and dissociate with time. Last, we find that multimeric CUG repeat RNA foci are dependent upon MBNL proteins. Altogether, these observations argue that the persistence of nuclear-retained CUG RNAs, independent of higher-order RNA assemblies, titrates MBNL1 and contributes to disease progression.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Background/Objectives: Persicaria senticosa (Meisn.) H.Gross (PS) has anti-photoaging, anti-inflammatory, and antioxidant activities, but the anti-pigmentation potential of the PS flower absolute (PSFAb) remains largely unexplored. This study aimed to examine the chemical composition and anti-melanogenic and melanosome transport-inhibitory effects of PSFAb using B16BL6 murine melanoma cells. Methods: PSFAb was extracted with hexane and analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). The biological activities in B16BL6 murine melanoma cells were evaluated using water-soluble tetrazolium salt (WST) assays, 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays, and immunoblotting methods. Results: GC-MS analysis identified eight constituents in PSFAb. Cell viability was not significantly altered in B16BL6 cells at concentrations ≤ 100 μg/mL, which were used for additional tests. PSFAb inhibited serum-induced cell proliferation and suppressed α-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (α-MSH)-induced melanin synthesis and tyrosinase activity in B16BL6 cells. PSFAb also downregulated the α-MSH-induced expression of key melanogenic regulators, including microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF), tyrosinase, tyrosinase-related protein-1 (TRP-1), and TRP-2. PSFAb decreased extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphorylation but enhanced JNK phosphorylation in α-MSH-stimulated B16BL6 cells. Furthermore, PSFAb reduced the α-MSH-induced expression of melanosome transport-related proteins (melanophilin and Rab27a) in B16BL6 cells. Conclusions: Overall, these results suggest that PSFAb has the potential to exert anti-pigmentation effects by suppressing melanogenesis and downregulating melanosome transport-related proteins. Therefore, PSFAb may be a promising candidate for the development of natural agents targeting hyperpigmentation and skin pigmentation regulation.
Like humans, companion dogs develop cancers spontaneously in the context of increased age, genetic variations, or environmental exposures, making them valuable as a preclinical model. Here, we assessed the safety and preliminary effectiveness of a multivalent adeno-associated virus (AAV) cancer vaccine in spontaneous canine oral melanoma. Eight companion dogs were vaccinated with equal doses of three different optimized AAV vectors encoding the melanoma others glycoprotein 100 (GP100), tyrosinase (Tyr), and tyrosinase-related protein 1 (TRP-1). Five dogs received a dose of 3 × 1012 viral genomes (vg)/dog, and three others received 9 × 1012 vg/dog. Post-vaccination monitoring established a lack of adverse effects and confirmed the presence of antigen-specific IFN-γ-producing T cells in the blood of most dogs. Although the variable survival times make it difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of the optimized AAV cancer vaccine at this point, three of the eight dogs were disease-free by the end of study, and two dogs survived 804 and 953 days after vaccination, and one is currently alive. Thus, the optimized AAV cancer vaccine showed promise in a spontaneous cancer animal model that closely recapitulates human disease development.© 2026 The Author(s).
Although estrogen has been identified to play crucial roles in the development of melasma, the exact mechanism of estrogen's effect on pigmentation is incompletely elucidated. Recent studies have highlighted the pivotal role of immune cells in melasma. Interestingly, infiltrated macrophages are significantly enhanced in melasma lesions. Estrogen could facilitate M2 polarization. However, whether estrogen could stimulate melanogenesis via skewing M2 phenotype remains unknown. This study attempted to determine the significance and molecular mechanism of estrogen-induced M2 phenotype in melasma. We found that M2 infiltration was significantly increased in melasma lesions compared with perilesional skin. Arginase 1 was identified as the hub gene, and its expression was positively correlated with that of microphthalmia-associated transcription factor and tyrosinase-related protein 1 in melasma through transcriptome analysis. Moreover, β-estradiol (E2) was confirmed to promote M2 skewing while inhibiting M1 polarization via activating STAT6 signaling. Importantly, E2-induced M2 polarization robustly increased melanogenesis by increasing tyrosinase activity and expression of microphthalmia-associated transcription factor and tyrosinase in melanocytes, which were profoundly inhibited by VEGF knockdown or antagonism both in vitro and in ex vivo skin. Furthermore, VEGF was revealed to enhance melanogenesis through activating p38 MAPK and ERK1/2 signaling pathways in melanocytes. Additionally, dermal VEGF was significantly increased, and most of it colocalized with M2 macrophages in melasma lesions. Crucially, E2 administration potently reversed ovariectomy-decreased M2 skewing and subsequently promoted dermal VEGF expression and epidermal melanogenesis in the mouse tail skin, which were significantly suppressed by macrophage depletion. These findings suggest that estrogen may stimulate melanogenesis in melasma through increasing M2 skewing and VEGF expression and secretion in macrophages.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42438770 is a review article
Plumage colour in domestic geese is an important economic trait and a selection target since the early days of domestication. In European domestic geese of greylag goose (Anser anser) origin, white plumage is known to be determined by two independent loci, one causing white spotting and another sex-linked dilution, together producing white plumage. Strong candidate genetic variants have been identified upstream of the EDNRB2, that is, LOC106047519 gene (endothelin receptor B-like) and within the sex-linked MLANA gene (melan-A). To confirm these candidate variants, we genotyped differently coloured European domestic goose breeds, wild greylag geese, Chinese domestic geese (derived from swan goose A. cygnoid) and European and Chinese domestic geese crossbreeds. One base pair deletion in the MLANA gene (NW_013185876.1: g.950868 C>-) was confirmed to cause sex-linked dilution, and thus autosexing (almost white gander and diluted grey goose). However, a genetic variant upstream of EDNRB2 (NW_013185915.1: g.775151 G>T) was not causative of saddleback pattern but strongly linked to it in European domestic geese. We sequenced the EDNRB2 gene and coding sequence of a neighbouring VAMP7 gene (vesicle-associated membrane protein 7) but found no genetic variation linked to colour. Additionally, we sequenced the coding sequence of TYRP1 (tyrosinase related protein 1), a candidate gene for buff colouration, but no variation linked to colour was found. Further, we genotyped a 14-bp insertion in exon 3 of the EDNRB2 gene, known to be causative of the white phenotype in the Chinese domestic goose, and identified it in one European domestic goose.© 2026 The Author(s). Animal Genetics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Stichting International Foundation for Animal Genetics.
Downregulation of ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase 1 (ENPP1) has been implicated in autophagic cell death. However, how ENPP1 regulates the interplay between autophagy and ferroptosis to maintain trophoblast homeostasis in the context of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) remains unclear. To determine ENPP1's role in autophagy-dependent ferroptosis and its contribution to GDM-related placental injury, clinical placental tissues, hyperglycemia-treated HTR8/SVneo trophoblasts, and streptozotocin-induced GDM mice were analyzed. Ubiquitination assays, co-immunoprecipitation, functional studies, and therapeutic interventions were conducted. ENPP1 was significantly reduced in GDM placentas and correlated with increased ferroptosis and lipid peroxidation. Mechanistically, ENPP1 recruited USP2 (ubiquitin-specific peptidase 2) to inhibit the ubiquitination and autophagic degradation of SQSTM1 (sequestosome 1), thereby enhancing its stability. ENPP1 loss promoted NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy, leading to iron overload and ferroptosis. Restoring ENPP1 or inhibiting autophagy alleviated placental thinning and fetal growth restriction in GDM mice. ENPP1 regulates autophagy-dependent ferroptosis via the USP2-SQSTM1 axis, and its deficiency contributes to placental dysfunction.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
To investigate whether early on-treatment expression of ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase 1 (ENPP1) and interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 2 (IFIT2) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) could serve as biomarkers for predicting hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) clearance and therapeutic responses to pegylated interferon-α (Peg-IFN-α) in HBeAg-negative chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients.In this prospective study, HBeAg-negative CHB patients received Peg-IFN-α therapy for 48 weeks. Patients were categorized into virological response (VR) or non-virological response (NVR) groups based on changes in HBV DNA and HBsAg levels at week 48, and further stratified into serological response (SR) or non-serological response (NSR) groups based on the occurrence of HBsAg loss or seroconversion. ENPP1 and IFIT2 mRNA levels in PBMCs were quantified using real-time quantitative PCR. Correlations between gene expression and HBsAg reduction were evaluated using Spearman's rank correlation analysis. Factors independently associated with VR and SR were identified using univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses. The discriminative ability of individual biomarkers and combined predictive models was assessed by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis.Both ENPP1 and IFIT2 mRNA levels were significantly elevated in the VR and SR groups during early treatment. Expression levels of both genes at weeks 12 and 24 positively correlated with the magnitude of HBsAg reduction, and their early induction at week 12 was associated with subsequent HBsAg decline. Multivariate analyses identified ENPP1 and IFIT2 mRNA levels at weeks 12 and 24 as independent predictors of VR and SR. ENPP1 expression at week 12 demonstrated the highest predictive accuracy for VR (AUC = 0.7645), while ENPP1 at week 24 showed moderate predictive value for SR (AUC = 0.7399). In contrast, IFIT2 consistently exhibited superior predictive performance for VR (AUC = 0.8791) and for SR at week 24 (AUC = 0.8879). The combination of ENPP1 and IFIT2 further improved predictive accuracy for both VR (AUC = 0.9098) and SR (AUC = 0.9217).ENPP1 and IFIT2 in PBMCs represent valuable biomarkers for early prediction of Peg-IFN-α treatment efficacy and HBsAg clearance in HBeAg-negative CHB patients.Copyright © 2026 Pang, Fu, Jiang and Qin.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is associated with poor prognosis due to its highly heterogeneous tumor immune microenvironment and the lack of actionable molecular targets, which collectively limit the efficacy of current therapies. To address these challenges, PEI/siENPP1@Mn-ZIF-8 (PEMZ) is reported, an integrated gene-chemodynamic-immune nanocomplex that activates the cyclic GMP-AMP synthase-stimulator of interferon genes (cGAS-STING) pathway through a previously unattainable triple-activation mechanism. PEMZ efficiently encapsulates siENPP1, protects it from degradation, and enables acid-responsive cytosolic release, resulting in sustained ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase 1 (ENPP1) silencing and accumulation of tumor-derived cyclic 2',3'-GMP-AMP (cGAMP). Simultaneously, the Mn2+/Zn2+ ions released from the trienzyme-mimetic nanocomplex, which exhibits peroxidase-, catalase-, and glutathione peroxidase-like activities, amplify intracellular reactive oxygen species, deplete glutathione, and trigger mitochondrial dysfunction. This coordinated redox disruption induces immunogenic cell death and further enhances STING signaling. In vitro and in vivo studies demonstrate that PEMZ markedly suppresses TNBC proliferation and metastasis, promotes dendritic cell maturation, and increases intratumoral CD8+ T-cell infiltration, achieving potent tumor inhibition with minimal systemic toxicity. This work establishes PEMZ as a mechanistically integrated nano-immunotherapy platform, offering a promising and broadly applicable strategy for the precision treatment of TNBC and other ENPP1-overexpressing cancers.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
To explore the underlying effect mechanism of fire needle therapy on hydroquinone-induced vitiligo based on transcriptome sequencing.Eighteen C57BL/6 mice were randomly divided into a blank group, a model group, and a fire needle group, with 6 mice in each group. The vitiligo mouse model was established in the model and fire needle groups using the hydroquinone depigmentation method. After successful modeling, in the fire needle group, fire needle therapy was operated on the white skin lesions, once a week and for 4 consecutive weeks. The skin and hair depigmentation conditions and depigmentation scores were observed before and after intervention. HE staining was used to observe skin morphology and melanin granules. Skin tissue from the local white lesions of 3 randomly selected mice in each group was subjected to RNA-seq to screen differentially expressed genes in skin tissue, followed by bioinformatics analysis.The mRNA expression of the partial differentially expressed genes was detected by real-time fluorescent quantitative PCR.Compared with the blank group, in the model group, the epidermis and dermis were thickened, and the depigmentation score of the skin and hair was higher (P<0.05), and the number of melanocytes in the epidermis and hair follicles, the number of melanocytes in the basal layer, and the number of epidermal cells containing melanin granules were decreased (P < 0.05). Compared with the model group, the depigmentation score of the skin and hair in the fire needle group was decreased (P<0.05), and the number of melanocytes in the epidermis and hair follicles, the number of melanocytes in the basal layer, and the number of epidermal cells containing melanin granules were increased (P<0.05). In comparison with the blank group, 1 291 differentially expressed genes were screened in the model group (including 985 up-regulated genes and 306 down-regulated genes), the functional enrichment analysis of gene ontology (GO) primarily focused on keratinization and keratinized envelope, and the metabolic pathway analysis from the Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes (KEGG)was mainly enriched in the interactions between viral proteins and cytokines/cytokine receptors. When compared with the model group, 306 differentially expressed genes were screened in the fire needle group, and the GO enrichment was in keratinized envelope and the establishment of skin barrier, and the KEGG metabolic pathway analysis was enriched in the interaction between cytokines and cytokine receptors. Through WikiPathways enrichment analysis, fire needle therapy significantly exerted its effect through the oxidative stress and redox pathways. The gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA)showed that the Hippo signaling pathway and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) signaling pathway were significantly activated. Compared with the blank group, in the model group, the mRNA expression was elevated for superoxide dismutase 3 (SOD3), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ), quinone oxidoreductase 1(NQO1), monoamine oxidase (MAO), interleukin 18 (IL-18), interleukin 1 family member 8 (IL-1F8), interleukin 1 family member 9 (IL-1F9), C-C motif chemokine ligand 8 (CCL8), serine/threonine protein kinase 4 (MST1), and MOB kinase activator 1A (MOB1A) in the skin tissue (P<0.05), and the mRNA expression was reduced for glutathione S-transferase alpha 3 (GSTA3), glutathione S-transferase alpha 4 (GSTA4), gamma-glutamyl cyclotransferase (GGCT), Wnt family member 3A (WNT3A), tyrosinase-related protein 1 (TYRP1), catalase (CAT), and forkhead box P3 (FOXP3) (P<0.05). Compared with the model group, the fire needle group showed the decrease in the mRNA expression of SOD3, PPARγ, NQO1, MAO,IL-18, IL-1F8, IL-1F9, CCL8, MST1 and MOB1A in the skin tissue (P<0.05), and the increase in the mRNA expression of GSTA3, GSTA4, GGCT, WNT3A, TYRP1, CAT and FOXP3 (P<0.05).Fire needling therapy can attenuate the depigmentation of skin in vitiligo induced by hydroquinone in mice. Its effect mechanism may involve the regulation of Hippo signaling pathways and PPAR signaling pathways, thereby mitigating oxidative stress and inflammatory response, and regulating the immune system, ultimately promoting the recovery of melanocytes and reducing the size of white patches.
Studies documented the association of melanoregulin (MREG), a cargo-sorting protein, with its binding partner, the autophagic protein, microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3B (LC3B) in macrophages which could affect bone physiology due to the importance of autophagy in osteoclast function. Herein we propose to test the hypothesis that MREG modulates bone remodeling. Therefore, we analyzed the Mreg dsu/dsu mutant mice for bone mass, growth plate microarchitecture, and bone marrow-derived osteoclast function to understand how lack of MREG affects bone and mass at two different time points.Mice femurs from wild type and MREG-/- male mice (on C57BL6)/J background) were harvested at 4 and 10 months and imaged by microcomputed tomography to assess bone mass parameters. Femurs were processed for histology by H&E and TRAP staining for assessment of osteoclast numbers. Primary bone marrow-derived macrophages from 3-week-old mice were harvested to assess osteoclast differentiation and function via TRAP, resorptive assay and Western Blot for osteoclast differentiation markers. In addition, a separate cohort of mice were analyzed via EchoMRI to characterize total lean vs. fat whole body mass.There was a statistically significant difference in bone volume of 10-month old mice in wild type vs. MREG-/- with MREG mutation suggesting a preservative effect on phenotypical bone parameters as the mice age. A reduction in adipose tissue but an increase in osteoclast numbers was found histologically in MREG mutant femurs. Bone marrow-derived cells, however, showed reduced osteoclastic function in MREG-/-. The mutant mice presented a total lean mass significantly increased compared to wild type per EchoMRI.MREG deficiency seems to impact osteoclast numbers in vivo but not in vitro, although in vitro function was reduced. MREG deficiency favors lean mass preservation over fat accumulation in bones and body composition as mice age. This study provides the foundation for a more in-depth investigation of MREG's role in bone and systemic metabolism. It is possible that MREG can be a future target for new therapeutic modalities in inflammatory and metabolic bone diseases.
Red tilapia has gained increasing popularity worldwide in the commercial aquaculture production due to its rapid growth and delightful taste. However, the occurrence of skin colour variation poses a significant challenge to the advancement of commercial culture. Furthermore, the molecular regulatory mechanism and genetic basis for the distinct skin colouration in red tilapia remain undisclosed. In this study, a comprehensive transcriptome analysis was conducted on red tilapia with different skin colour by integrating PacBio Iso-seq technology with Illumina short-read sequencing methods. A total of 41.38 Gb of clean data was generated, resulting in the acquisition of 30,970 transcripts. Among them, 10,829 transcripts were successfully annotated in at least one public database. In addition, 10,827 coding sequences, 452 transcription factors, and 781 lncRNAs were identified in new transcripts. Furthermore, we performed RNA-seq analysis to identify skin colour-associated genes in red tilapia with three colour spots (white spots, W; black spots, B; red spots, R). The results revealed the identification of 278 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between the comparison groups, which included B vs R, B vs W, and WvsR.Amongthem, some known genes were found to be involved in regulating the skin pigment synthesis, including PMEL, Wnt-4, melanoregulin and ALK in red tilapia with different skin colour. In addition, some pathways, including melanogenesis (ko04916), ECMreceptor interaction (ko04512), Hedgehog signaling pathway (ko04340) and steroid hormone biosynthesis (ko00140), were associated with the skin pigment synthesis in red tilapia. Furthermore, the quantitative real-time PCR analysis confirmed a moderate correlation (coefficient of 0.68) between the results obtained from the qPCR and RNA-seq methodologies. In summary, our findings will significantly contribute to the enhanced comprehension of the molecular regulatory mechanisms underlying the variation in skin colour observed in red tilapia.
Melanosomes are melanin-containing organelles in melanocytes, and they are responsible for skin and hair pigmentation in mammals. The intracellular distribution of melanosomes is mainly determined by the balance between their anterograde transport on actin filaments and retrograde transport on microtubules. Although we have shown previously that melanoregulin and Rab36 serve as cargo receptors on melanosomes for retrograde transport, their knockdown does not completely inhibit retrograde melanosome transport, suggesting the existence of an additional cargo receptor(s) in melanocytes. In this study, we investigated the possible involvement of an atypical large Rab, Rab44, which also contains EF-hand domains and a coiled-coil domain, in retrograde melanosome transport in mouse melanocytes (Rab27A-deficient melan-ash cells). Our results showed that Rab44 localizes on mature melanosomes through lipidation of its C-terminal Rab-like GTPase domain, and that its knockdown results in suppression of retrograde melanosome transport. In addition, our biochemical analysis indicated that Rab44 interacts with the dynein-dynactin motor complex via its coiled-coil domain-containing middle region. Since simultaneous depletion of Rab44, melanoregulin, and Rab36 resulted in almost complete inhibition of retrograde melanosome transport, we propose that Rab44 is the third cargo receptor. We also showed that the N-terminal region of Rab44, which contains EF-hand domains, is required for both retrograde melanosome transport and its Ca2+-modulated activities. Our findings indicated that Rab44 is a third melanosomal cargo receptor, and that, unlike other cargo receptors previously described, its transport function is regulated by Ca2+.Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
MicroRNA (miR)-224-5p has been reported to be associated with multiple types of cancer. However, its biological role and underlying mechanism in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has yet to be fully elucidated. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether miR-224-5p mRNA expression level was increased in hepatocellular carcinoma and whether it was associated with poor prognosis. Decreased mRNA expression level of miR-224-5p was shown to suppress liver cancer cell migration, invasion and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Mechanistically, E2F1 was found to regulate miR-224-5p expression by binding to its promoter region. Melanoregulin (MREG) was identified as the direct target of miR-224-5p by searching the TargetScan, miRDB and StarBase databases. Overexpression of MREG could attenuate liver cancer cell migration, invasion and EMT. Rescue experiments further confirmed that MREG was associated with the regulation of miR-224-5p in liver cancer. In addition, the E2F1/miR-224-5p axis was shown to promote liver cancer cell migration, invasion and EMT by regulating MREG expression. These results suggested that E2F1-induced upregulation of miR-224-5p may serve an important role in MREG-induced liver cancer cell migration, invasion and EMT, and highlights the regulatory function of miR-224-5p in liver cancer. Therefore, the E2F1/miR-224-5p/MREG axis may provide a theoretical basis for the clinical treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma.Copyright: © Li et al.
Retinitis pigmentosa punctata albescens (RPA) is a particular form of retinitis pigmentosa characterized by childhood onset night blindness and areas of peripheral retinal atrophy. We investigated the genetic cause of RPA in a family consisting of two affected Egyptian brothers with healthy consanguineous parents.Mutational analysis of four RPA causative genes was realized by Sanger sequencing on both probands, and detected variants were subsequently genotyped in their parents. Afterwards, found variants were deeply, statistically, and in silico characterized to determine their possible effects and association with RPA.Both brothers carry three missense PRPH2 variants in a homozygous condition (c.910C > A, c.929G > A, and c.1013A > C) and two promoter variants in RHO (c.-26A > G) and RLBP1 (c.-70G > A) genes, respectively. Haplotype analyses highlighted a PRPH2 rare haplotype variant (GAG), determining a possible alteration of PRPH2 binding with melanoregulin and other outer segment proteins, followed by photoreceptor outer segment instability. Furthermore, an altered balance of transcription factor binding sites, due to the presence of RHO and RLBP1 promoter variants, might determine a comprehensive downregulation of both genes, possibly altering the PRPH2 shared visual-related pathway.Despite several limitations, the study might be a relevant step towards detection of novel scenarios in RPA etiopathogenesis.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42532784
Pathological cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure pose significant global health challenges. Maintaining cardiomyocyte homeostasis is crucial for slowing disease progression. Our findings reveal that Ubiquitin-specific peptidase 13 (USP13), a key component of the Protein Quality Control (PQC) system and a deubiquitinase highly expressed in cardiac tissue, is significantly upregulated in both human and experimental models of pathological cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure. Comprehensive in vivo and in vitro studies demonstrate that USP13 overexpression accelerates the progression of pathological cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure, whereas genetic silencing of USP13 in vitro mitigates phenylephrine (PE)-induced cardiomyocyte hypertrophy. Mechanistically, as shown by immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry (IP-MS), co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP), and immunofluorescence analysis, USP13 promotes the interaction between eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5B (eIF5B) and the autophagy receptor SQSTM1/P62, directing eIF5B to selective autophagic degradation. This process leads to eIF5B depletion, which exacerbates pathological cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure while counteracting the protective effects of USP13 silencing. This study is the first to elucidate the pivotal role of the USP13-eIF5B axis in pathological cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure, shedding light on the molecular mechanisms and identifying a promising therapeutic target in human end-stage heart failure.
BACKGROUND: Hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) is a key transcriptional regulator in tumor progression, tightly controlled by ubiquitination-mediated proteasomal degradation. While multiple deubiquitinases (DUBs) stabilize HIF-1α, the role of ubiquitin specific peptidase 13 (USP13) in colorectal cancer (CRC) remained undefined. This study aimed to elucidate whether USP13 regulates HIF-1α stability and contributes to CRC pathogenesis. METHODS: USP13-HIF-1α interaction was assessed via co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP), immunofluorescence, and domain mapping. Ubiquitination assays evaluated USP13-mediated HIF-1α deubiquitination using K-specific ubiquitin mutants. Functional impacts were tested in CRC cell lines using CRISPR/Cas9-mediated USP13 knockout and overexpression. In vitro assays included proliferation (CCK-8), colony formation, migration, invasion, and angiogenesis (HUVECs tube formation). In vivo relevance was validated in xenograft models, USP13-knockout mice, and an AOM/DSS-induced CRC model. Clinical correlation used IHC staining of CRC patient tissues and TCGA data analysis. RESULTS: USP13 directly bound HIF-1α via its C-terminal UBA domain, cleaving K48-linked polyubiquitin chains to stabilize HIF-1α and enhance its transcriptional activity. USP13 knockout reduced HIF-1α levels, suppressed CRC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and angiogenesis in vitro, and attenuated tumor growth in xenografts. Conversely, USP13 overexpression exacerbated these effects. Clinically, USP13 and HIF-1α levels correlated positively in CRC tissues and with Ki-67 expression. USP13 deficiency in mice reduced tumor burden in AOM/DSS models, decreased vascular density (CD31+), and downregulated VEGFA/Ki-67. Rescue experiments confirmed HIF-1α dependency for USP13-mediated oncogenic effects. CONCLUSIONS: USP13 promotes CRC progression by deubiquitinating and stabilizing HIF-1α, driving tumor growth, metastasis, and angiogenesis. This identifies USP13 as a pro-tumorigenic factor and potential therapeutic target in CRC.
Tumor angiogenesis is related to solid tumor occurrence. Ubiquitin-specific peptidase 13 (USP13) is a deubiquitinating enzyme with a pivotal effect on tumor proliferation, metastasis, and tumorigenesis. Nonetheless, its effect on colorectal cancer (CRC) angiogenesis remains poorly understood.Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) and CRC cells were cultivated, followed by USP13 knockdown/overexpression using shRNA lentiviral vectors or plasmids. Conditioned media (CM) from treated CRC cells were collected to assess HUVEC migration, invasion, and tube formation. Phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) overexpression and recombinant vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) rescue experiments were performed. Molecular mechanisms were analyzed via Western blot (PTEN, p-AKT, VEGFA), co-immunoprecipitation (PTEN ubiquitination), and in vivo nude mice study to detect the role of USP13 in tumor angiogenesis.USP13 expression in CRC cells is downregulated and negatively related to platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 (CD31) expression. Furthermore, the conditioned medium from CRC cells with USP13 knockdown significantly promoted HUVEC migration, invasion, and tube formation, while USP13 overexpression exerted the opposite effect. Additionally, USP13 overexpression significantly increased PTEN expression while decreasing protein kinase B (AKT) phosphorylation levels. Concurrently, USP13 overexpression significantly reduced PTEN ubiquitination, whereas USP13 knockdown remarkably increased this modification. Overexpression of PTEN in sh-USP13 CRC cells decreased the expression levels of VEGFA and p-AKT. USP13 also inhibited tumor angiogenesis through downregulating VEGFA, and recombinant VEGFA blocked the inhibition of the conditioned medium from USP13-overexpressing CRC cells against HUVEC angiogenesis in vivo.USP13 downregulated VEGFA and inhibited tumor angiogenesis via the PTEN-AKT pathway.© 2025 The Authors.
Activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) is key to the development of liver fibrosis. Recent studies have highlighted the role of deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) in regulating protein stability and function, closely related to liver fibrosis. In this study, we screened out a key DUB, ubiquitin-specific peptidase 13 (USP13), in HSCs activation and explored its role and underlying mechanism.Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) public database were used to demonstrate the correlation of USP13 with HSC activation. Mice with adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated HSC-specific USP13 deficiency are proceeded to carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) or common bile duct ligation (BDL) models. Co-immunoprecipitation combined with mass spectrometry (Co-IP/MS) was used to identify the substrate for USP13.We first found that USP13 expression was upregulated in activated HSCs and in both CCl4- and BDL-induced liver fibrosis mice. HSC-specific knockdown of USP13 alleviates liver fibrosis and HSC activation in mice caused by CCl4 or BDL. Mechanistically, we identified SMAD3 as a potential substrate for USP13 by Co-IP/MS. USP13 binds to the MH2 domain of SMAD3 and deubiquitinates SMAD3. USP13 cysteine at position 345 (C345) promotes the stability of SMAD3 by removing the K48 ubiquitin chain from the lysine at position 13 (K13) of SMAD3, enhancing SMAD3 protein activity and inducing transcription of downstream profibrotic genes, which finally leads to HSCs activation and liver fibrosis.This study illustrates an HSC-specific USP13-SMAD3 axis in regulating liver fibrosis and presents USP13 as a potential target for the treatment of liver fibrosis.© 2025. Asian Pacific Association for the Study of the Liver.
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic condition in which endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and subsequent apoptosis of intestinal epithelial cells play significant roles. E3 ubiquitin ligases and deubiquitinases are crucial in IBD pathophysiology by modulating protein ubiquitination. This study investigated the regulatory role of a deubiquitinase ubiquitin-specific peptidase 13 (USP13) in a DSS-induced colitis mouse model and explored the underlying mechanism. Intestinal epithelial-specific Usp13 knockout (USP13IEKO) mice were treated with DSS to induce colitis. Adeno-associated virus serotype 9 (AAV9) was constructed to overexpress UPS13 in colonic tissues. The results show that intestinal epithelial-specific USP13 knockout exacerbated DSS-induced colitis, linked to increased ER stress and apoptosis. Mechanistically, USP13 interacted with  GRP78, attenuating ER stress-induced apoptosis and maintaining intestinal barrier integrity by selectively removing K63-linked ubiquitin at lysine 327. Moreover, restoration of USP13 expression via AAV9 in USP13IEKO mice attenuated DSS-induced colitis and preserved intestinal barrier integrity. Also, USP13 levels were reduced in ulcerative colitis patients compared to the healthy controls, highlighting its protective role in intestinal health. These findings underscore the protective role of the USP13-GRP78 axis in IBD and suggest that targeting USP13 through intestinal epithelial-specific gene therapy may be a potential therapeutic strategy for IBD.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Doxorubicin (Dox) is an anthracycline drug widely applied in various malignancies. However, the fatal cardiotoxicity induced by Dox limits its clinical application. Post-transcriptional protein modification via ubiquitination/deubiquitination in cardiomyocytes mediates the pathophysiological process in Dox-induced cardiotoxicity (DIC). In this study, we aimed to clarify the regulatory role and mechanism of a deubiquitinating enzyme, ubiquitin-specific peptidase 13 (USP13), in DIC. RNA-seq analysis and experimental examinations identified that cardiomyocyte-derived USP13 positively correlated with DIC. Mice with cardiac-specific deletion of USP13 were subjected to Dox modeling. Adeno-associated virus serotype 9 (AAV9) carrying cTNT promoter was constructed to overexpress USP13 in mouse heart tissues. Cardiomyocyte-specific knockout of USP13 exacerbated DIC, while its overexpression mitigated DIC in mice. Mechanistically, USP13 deubiquitinates the stimulator of interferon genes (STING) and promotes the autolysosome-related degradation of STING, subsequently alleviating cardiomyocyte inflammation and death. Our study suggests that USP13 serves a cardioprotective role in DIC and indicates USP13 as a potential therapeutic target for DIC treatment.© 2025 The Authors.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory autoimmune disease with complex pathogenesis. Ubiquitin-specific protease 13 (USP13), a member of the deubiquitinating enzyme (DUB) superfamily, plays diverse roles in cellular events. This study investigates the role of USP13 in RA, revealing its significant downregulation in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from RA patients compared to healthy individuals. USP13 expression negatively correlates with RA characteristics, including erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), C-reactive protein (CRP), and rheumatoid factor (RF). Consistent with these findings, USP13 levels were reduced in knee joint synovial tissues of collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) mice and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs). Mechanistically, USP13 directly interacts with tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), reducing its K63-linked polyubiquitination and thereby inhibiting TRAF6 expression. This interaction restrains nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) signaling, leading to a marked attenuation of LPS-induced inflammatory responses in BMDMs. Importantly, the anti-inflammatory effects of USP13 over-expression are largely dependent on TRAF6 suppression. In vitro, USP13 over-expression in BMDMs inhibits the proliferation of fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) and osteoclastogenesis. In addition, USP13-overexpressing BMDMs in CIA mice significantly alleviates RA development, as evidenced by reduced synovial hyperplasia, inflammatory cell infiltration, cartilage destruction, and bone loss. These findings highlight the essential role of USP13 in macrophages during RA progression and reveal its therapeutic potential by targeting TRAF6 signaling.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Ubiquitin-specific peptidase 13 (USP13) is a well-characterised deubiquitinating enzyme that plays a critical role in the pathogenesis and progression of various human malignancies. However, the precise mechanisms by which USP13 influences hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cell proliferation remain to be fully elucidated. In this study, we confirmed that USP13 expression was upregulated in HCC and correlated with poor prognosis. Further investigation revealed that the knockout of USP13 inhibited HCC cell proliferation, whereas overexpression of USP13 had the opposite effect. Mechanistically, pre-mRNA processing factor 6 (PRPF6) was identified as a potential substrate of USP13 through mass spectrometry analysis. USP13 stabilised the PRPF6 protein by reducing its K48/63-linked polyubiquitination levels and degradation. Ultimately, we demonstrated that the USP13-PRPF6 axis promoted HCC cell proliferation was closely associated with the activation of the AKT-mTOR signalling pathway.© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Over the first trimester, vasculogenesis (the de novo formation of blood vessels) and angiogenesis (creation of new vessels from existing vessels) together create the backbone of the placental vascular network, which becomes increasingly complex as gestation progresses to term. Many different ex vivo imaging modalities, including computed tomography, synchrotron X-ray tomography, confocal and electron microscopy, and traditional histology and stereology, have been used to study the vascularity of the human placenta in detail. However, many of these techniques often come with trade-offs between resolution, maximum sample size and cost. Light sheet fluorescence microscopy is an attractive method capable of imaging placental 3D morphology at the micro-scale, whilst also enabling imaging of comparatively larger placental explants than other microscopy techniques, allowing capture of more generations of villous and vascular trees. Advances in tissue clearing for optical imaging have led to a multitude of different published light sheet fluorescence microscopy protocols across tissue types. However, optimising placenta-specific protocols is imperative for high-quality imaging and downstream three-dimensional analysis of this unique tissue. Finally, the placental vascular architecture is notoriously disorganised, heterogenous and convoluted, making it more challenging to segment and obtain meaningful data than from vasculature in other organ systems. Here, we present a comprehensive pipeline for placental tissue preparation, light sheet fluorescence imaging and image segmentation of first trimester and term human placental villous explants, enabling physiologically relevant quantitative analysis of vascularity at different stages of gestation.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42525197 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42505525 is a review article
Polystyrene nanoplastics (PS-NPs) are emerging environmental contaminants with unclear cardiovascular impacts. This study evaluated PS-NPs-induced endothelial senescence using murine models and HUVECs. PS-NPs caused aortic wall thickening and structural disruption in mice, and induced DNA damage, apoptosis, cell cycle arrest, and impaired migration/vasculogenesis in vitro. Both models showed excessive ROS production and nucleolar stress (NPM1 relocalization), leading to premature senescence via p53/p21 upregulation. These effects were reversed by NPM1 inhibitor NSC348884 or ROS scavenger N-acetylcysteine. Collectively, PS-NPs promote vascular endothelial senescence through ROS-dependent nucleolar stress, highlighting their vasotoxic potential and cardiovascular risks.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Morphogen gradients are the spatial distributions of signaling molecules (morphogens) that diffuse from a localized source across entire axes of an embryo or tissue. In this article, we have analyzed the role of morphogen gradients in the development of the heart and of the vascular system. Morphogen gradients provide the essential positional information that directs stem cells to differentiate, migrate, and assemble into the complex, four-chambered mammalian heart. In the meantime, morphogen gradients provide positional information and direct the differentiation, migration, and branching of endothelial and hematopoietic precursors. By interpreting the concentration of specific signaling molecules, progenitor cells adopt distinct vascular identities, such as arteries, veins, or capillaries.© 2026 American Association of Clinical Anatomists and British Association of Clinical Anatomists.
Multiple groups have reported on the impact of hydrogel stiffness on vascular network formation in vitro, with overall findings indicating that hydrogels with lower stiffness better support vasculogenesis. However, most of this research utilizes hydrogels with static stiffness, even though vasculogenesis occurs in tandem with changes in extracellular matrix stiffness. To that end, we hypothesized that dynamic modulation of hydrogel stiffness during vasculogenesis would improve vascular network formation. Using a Collagen I/Norbornene-modified hyaluronic acid hydrogel system, we diffused additional crosslinker and photoinitiator into the hydrogel and initiated further UV crosslinking at predetermined time points, while maintaining high cell viability (>90%). We observed that in situ stiffening at early time points, prior to the completion of cell elongation, increased vascular network connectivity and volume fraction relative to unstiffened controls, while stiffening at later time points was associated with reduced network formation. Consistent with these findings, cell-laden hydrogels stiffened at early time points implanted subcutaneously in nude mice showed increased blood perfusion, while late-stiffened hydrogels did not improve perfusion relative to controls. Mechanistically, we found that these time-dependent differences were associated with changes in vinculin volume fraction, suggesting differential mechanotransductive signaling. Consistent with this, Rho kinase inhibition suppressed vinculin volume fraction in stiffened hydrogels and partially rescued vascular network formation following in situ stiffening. These findings indicate that the timing of stiffness modulation is a critical factor in determining vasculogenic outcome, and that early-stage stiffening can enhance vascular network formation beyond what is achieved in static hydrogel systems.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Vascular development begins with vasculogenesis during early embryogenesis. This process is controlled by a highly integrated, multi-layered molecular network. However, the role of post-transcriptional regulation in this context remains poorly understood. Cytoplasmic poly(A) binding protein 1a (Pabpc1a) is a key RNA-binding protein that regulates gene expression at the post-transcriptional level and participates in many physiological and pathological processes. Its role in vascular development, however, is still unclear. In this study, we first found that pabpc1a is highly expressed in endothelial cells during the critical window of vasculogenesis. We then generated a pabpc1a knockout model using CRISPR/Cas9. Functional analyses showed that loss of pabpc1a disrupted the expression of genes involved in arterial-venous specification and altered the arterial-to-venous diameter ratio. In contrast, overexpression of pabpc1a effectively rescued the vascular defects. Mechanistically, transcriptomic analysis revealed widespread gene expression changes in endothelial cells lacking pabpc1a. Pathways related to translation, ribosome biogenesis, and energy metabolism were significantly downregulated. These findings suggest that Pabpc1a regulates vasculogenesis by coordinating protein synthesis and metabolic homeostasis. In summary, our study demonstrates Pabpc1a as an essential post-transcriptional regulator during vasculogenesis and provides new insight into the regulatory network governing vascular development.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and its receptor VEGFR are master regulators of vasculogenesis and angiogenesis. VEGF activates VEGFR by inducing its dimerization and trans-autophosphorylation. The coreceptor neuropilin (Nrp1 and Nrp2) and heparan sulfate proteoglycan (HSPG) modulate VEGF-VEGFR signaling, but the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Here we report a cryo-EM structure of the dimeric mouse VEGF164-VEGFR2-Nrp1 ectodomain complex with a 2:2:2 stoichiometry, revealing direct Nrp1-VEGFR2 interactions that stabilize the VEGFR2 dimer. We also determined two cryo-EM structures of the VEGF164-VEGFR2-Nrp1 complex in the presence of short- or long-chain heparin, which bridges all three proteins and promotes the formation of two distinct tetrameric complexes. Long-chain heparin induces a cis tetrameric complex consistent with receptor clustering on the same cell surface, whereas short-chain heparin promotes a trans tetrameric assembly which might be formed by two dimeric complexes from opposing cells. Our structure-based mutational analyses support the model that both the Nrp1-VEGFR2 interface and the heparin-mediated clustering enhance VEGFR2 signaling.
The 3D brain organoids have been widely used as a tool to study human brain development and disorders. Although angiogenesis and blood vascular endothelial cells play important roles in brain development and pathogenesis in neurological disorders, most 3D brain organoids lack inherent endothelial cells and need either the addition of differentiated endothelial cells or to be transplanted to animals to reconstitute such vascular structures. However, these approaches could miss the developmental interactions between angiogenesis and neurogenesis in the human brain. To reconstitute a 3D organoid mimicking the in vivo development of neural and vascular endothelial cells, we cultured iPSC-derived embryoid bodies and sequentially applied endothelial and neuronal induction media along with Matrigel embedding. The resulting 3D organoid consists of both neural cells and endothelial cells with vascular-like structures, as determined by immunostaining. With scRNA-Seq analysis, the organoid was confirmed to contain neural cell types similar to human brains, including a variety of excitatory and inhibitory neurons and glia. Furthermore, when compared with conventionally generated cerebral organoids without endothelial cells using RNA-Seq analysis, the vascular endothelial-containing neural organoids (EC-neural organoids) showed different gene profiles and favored angiogenesis and vasculogenesis. Of the differentially expressed genes, KRBA2 expression was found to be higher in neural cells and its inhibition by siRNA treatment resulted in decreased transcriptions of a variety of genes specific to neuronal differentiation but not genes specific to pluripotent stem cells such as OCT4. The EC-neural organoids also expressed receptors to SARS-CoV-2 at levels similar to human brains. This 3D EC-neural model provides a useful tool to study the interactions between vascular endothelial cells and neural cells in brain development and potentially for the study of neural infectious disorders where vascular endothelial cells are targets for infection and mediators for neural damage.
Vascular anomalies are a heterogeneous group of lesions characterized by abnormalities in vasculogenesis. Sclerotherapy is a conservative modality for their management. Ultrasonography can guide sclerotherapy and provide prognostic parameters.This prospective, nonrandomized observational study was conducted between 2023 and 2025. Thirty-one patients with oral vascular anomalies underwent standardized clinical and ultrasonographic assessment. Individuals were submitted to sclerotherapy with 3% polidocanol under ultrasound guidance. Outcomes included lesion area/perimeter, echogenicity, and flow proportion per area. Nonparametric tests assessed differences over time, and effect sizes (ES) were calculated.The median of lesion area decreased from 0.15 to 0.07 cm² (P < .001; ES = 0.85) and perimeter from 1.76 to 1.29 cm (P < .001; ES = 0.92). Echogenicity shifted toward isoechoic patterns (P < .05), while flow proportion showed no significant changes (P > .05). High-flow lesions showed greater reduction of median area than low-flow lesions (-0.20 vs -0.04 cm²; P < .05; ES = 0.48), but no variation in perimeter was observed comparing high and low flow lesions (P > .05). Baseline echogenicity did not predict the sclerotherapy response (P > .05). Sclerotherapy guided by ultrasound is a safe and effective treatment for oral vascular anomalies.Ultrasonographic parameters, particularly baseline vascular flow, offer prognostic value for treatment response, whereas echogenicity is less informative.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Inflammation causes bone loss by dysregulating the differentiation and functions of osteoclasts, osteoblasts, and osteocytes. This process can be modeled by the expression of constitutively activated IKK2 (IKK2ca), a strategy that we leveraged to investigate the mechanisms through which inflammation negatively affects cells of the osteoblast/osteocyte lineage. We found that mice expressing IKK2ca in osteoblasts exhibit significant bone loss. Mechanistically, IKK2ca downregulates the expression of osteoblast genes while inducing the differentiation of bone-forming osteoblasts into catabolic osteocytes like cells, expressing high levels of Podoplanin, Fgf23, Dkk1 and Sclerostin. We term these atypical inflammatory osteocyte-like cells (aiOCy-L cells) as they highly express inflammatory and senescence markers and promote osteoclast differentiation as well. Additional data show that inflammation induces abnormal differentiation of OB into aiOCy-L cells through upregulating mTOR and glycolysis. In summary, we uncovered a mechanism by which inflammation alters osteoblast differentiation and fate decision via the IKK2/mTOR/glycolysis axis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Postmenopausal osteoporosis (PMOP) arises from a bone remodeling imbalance in which osteoclast-mediated resorption exceeds osteoblast-driven formation. However, current therapies primarily target osteoclasts without restoring osteoblast function, underscoring the need for mechanism-driven dual-action approaches. Here, we identify neddylation as a post-translational modification that reciprocally regulates osteoclast and osteoblast differentiation. In bone tissue from patients with PMOP, NEDD8 and its activating enzyme NAE1 were significantly upregulated, indicating heightened pathway activity. Mechanistically, c-Cbl neddylates NFATc1 to promote osteoclastogenesis, whereas Rbx1 neddylates Runx2 to suppress osteoblast maturation. Pharmacological blockade with the NAE1 inhibitor MLN4924 counteracted both effects and, in ovariectomized mice, reduced osteoclast activity while preserving osteoblast function, preventing deterioration of bone mass and microarchitecture. In human PMOP bone tissues, elevated NEDD8 and NAE1 expression was associated with increased NFATc1 in osteoclast-lineage cells and reduced Runx2 in osteoblast-lineage cells, suggesting translational relevance. These findings reveal neddylation as a unifying mechanism that coordinates opposing effects on osteoclast and osteoblast master transcription factors and highlight its potential as a mechanism-driven dual-action therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aimed to investigate the effects of loganin on the osteogenic differentiation of mouse embryonic osteoblast precursor cells(MC3T3-E1) under oxidative stress and to explore its underlying mechanisms. First, a network pharmacology approach was employed to identify common targets of loganin and osteoporosis(OP) using SwissTargetPrediction, OMM, and GeneCards databases. A total of 31 potential targets were identified, with signal transducer and activator of transcription 3(STAT3), interleukin-2(IL-2), matrix metalloproteinase-9(MMP-9), and caspase-3 being central in the protein-protein interaction(PPI) network. Further enrichment analysis based on Gene Ontology(GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) suggested that the JAK-STAT signaling pathway might be a key pathway through which loganin exerts its effects. In vitro experiments utilized hydrogen peroxide(H_2O_2, 200 μmol·L~(-1)) to establish an oxidative stress injury model in MC3T3-E1 cells. The cells were divided into a control group, an H_2O_2 model group, and low-, medium-, and high-dose(50, 100, 200 μmol·L~(-1)) loganin groups. The results showed that loganin significantly reversed the H_2O_2-induced decreases in cell viability, reduced intracellular reactive oxygen species(ROS) levels, enhanced alkaline phosphatase(ALP) activity, and inhibited apoptosis. Western blot analysis revealed that loganin upregulated the expression of osteogenic differentiation markers, including Runt-related transcription factor 2(Runx2), ALP, and osterix, while downregulating the expression of apoptosis markers such as cleaved caspase-3 and Bcl-2-associated X protein(Bax) and upregulating the anti-apoptotic protein B-cell lymphoma-2(Bcl-2). Furthermore, loganin inhibited the phosphorylation of the JAK2/STAT3 pathway. Notably, the promoting effect of loganin on osteogenic differentiation and its anti-apoptotic effect were significantly reversed upon treatment with a JAK2/STAT3 pathway agonist, further confirming the critical role of this pathway in its mechanism of action. In conclusion, this study suggests that loganin may alleviate oxidative stress by inhibiting the JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway, thereby suppressing apoptosis and promoting osteogenic differentiation in MC3T3-E1 cells.
The design of polymeric scaffolds represents a cornerstone of bone tissue engineering, as they provide a vital biomimetic environment essential for the functional regeneration of native bone tissue. In this study, a chemical-crosslinker-free scaffold composed of gellan gum (GG), carboxymethyl chitosan (CMCs), and bacterial cellulose (BC) was synthesised, mineralised via accelerated soaking in 5-fold concentrated simulated body fluid to enhance osteoconductivity prior to application. The incorporation of Cissus quadrangularis extract, a traditional herbal medicine rich in minerals and potent antioxidants, was employed to introduce osteogenic cues. As a result, the deposited mineral phase acted as a reinforcing agent, improving stiffness and load resistance relative to the unmineralised scaffold. The scaffolds demonstrated high haemocompatibility, effective clotting, and controlled polyphenol release driven by diffusion and network relaxation. Biological assays confirmed biocompatibility in in vitro (endothelial and preosteoblast cells) and in ovo (chorioallantoic membrane) models, alongside enhanced proliferation and osteogenic differentiation. These findings suggest that these mineralised biopolymer scaffolds hold significant potential for bone regeneration, providing a robust foundation for future in vivo applications.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Bioinert titanium implants lack immunomodulatory capacity to direct favorable osteoimmune responses during osseointegration. While Sr/Zn-doped TiO₂ micro-arc oxidation coatings have been shown to enhance bone regeneration through multicellular crosstalk, the direct immunoregulatory mechanism remain unclear. Here we demonstrate that Sr/Zn coating actively induces macrophage M2 polarization through modulation of key inflammatory pathways, establishing a pro-regenerative osteoimmune microenvironment. In vitro, the coating facilitated RAW264.7 macrophage transition from M1 to M2 phenotype, confirmed by immunofluorescence staining, RT-qPCR and Flow Cytometry. Transcriptomic profiling with KEGG enrichment revealed significant modulation of IL-17, NF-κB, TNF, Toll-like receptor, chemokine, and Wnt signaling pathways. Macrophage-conditioned medium from Sr/Zn-coated surfaces significantly enhanced osteoblast differentiation and angiogenic factor expression. In vivo, Sr/Zn-coated implants reduced M1 marker iNOS while elevating M2 marker Arg-1, accompanied by enhanced BMP2, Runx2, CD31 and VEGF expression. Micro-CT and histological analyses confirmed superior osseointegration with increased bone volume fraction and bone-implant contact. This study provides the first direct evidence that Sr/Zn-doped TiO₂ coatings enhance osseointegration through macrophage M2 polarization-directed osteoimmunomodulation, advancing our understanding of bioactive coating design for orthopedic and dental applications.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Mitochondrial complex I sustains oxidative phosphorylation, respiratory adaptation, and mitochondrial homeostasis during osteogenic differentiation. NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase core subunit (NDUFS5) is a nuclear-encoded complex I subunit required for complex I assembly and function, but its role in osteoblast differentiation is unknown. This study examined whether NDUFS5 deficiency suppresses osteogenic differentiation through mitochondrial dysfunction and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) shunt-related metabolic disruption.NDUFS5 expression was examined in mouse tibial sections and MC3T3-E1 cells during osteogenic induction. Osteogenic differentiation was evaluated by osteogenic marker expression, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) staining, and ALP activity. Mitochondrial morphology and function were evaluated using fluorescence imaging, transmission electron microscopy, and assays of membrane potential, reactive oxygen species, and oxygen consumption. Integrated transcriptomic and metabolomic profiling was performed, and exogenous GABA supplementation was used to test GABA shunt involvement.NDUFS5 expression increased during osteogenic differentiation and was enriched at sites of active bone formation. Ndufs5 deficiency reduced osteogenic marker expression and ALP activity. It also caused mitochondrial swelling, cristae disruption, reduced membrane potential, increased reactive oxygen species, and impaired respiratory function. Integrated analyses indicated GABA shunt disruption, accompanied by reduced intracellular GABA. Exogenous GABA partially restored osteogenic marker expression and ALP activity in Ndufs5-deficient cells.NDUFS5 contributes to osteogenic differentiation by maintaining mitochondrial integrity, respiratory function, and GABA shunt-related metabolic homeostasis. These findings identify NDUFS5 as a regulator of metabolic adaptation during osteoblast maturation and suggest partial rescue through GABA replenishment.Mitochondrial dysfunction may impair osteoblast differentiation and bone formation. Disruption of NDUFS5-associated mitochondrial metabolism and GABA shunt homeostasis may identify therapeutic targets for improving bone healing and regenerative outcomes.Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Background/Objectives: Managing bone diseases demands novel, natural compounds to bypass the heavy side effects of current therapies. Honey is well-known for its therapeutic traits, yet we know very little about how specific floral varieties impact bone tissue. This study confronts this gap by comparing how acacia, chestnut, and coriander honeys drive human osteoblast behavior in vitro. Methods: After mapping the phenolic/flavonoid profiles and antioxidant capacities of these honeys, we tested them on hFOB 1.19 human osteoblasts. We tracked cell migration via scratch assays and validated osteogenic maturation through Alkaline Phosphatase (ALP) activity and Alizarin Red (AR) mineralization over 7 days. Confocal time-lapse imaging with pharmacological inhibitors monitored intracellular calcium dynamics, while gene shifts were analyzed via qRT-PCR. Results: Coriander honey (CH) packed the highest polyphenol levels and antioxidant power. Biologically, while all honeys accelerated scratch closure, CH drove cell motility most potently. Remarkably, a 7-day treatment with these honeys sparked a significant and robust increase in ALP activity and mineralization, surpassing the osteogenic induction observed with standard osteoinductive media. Mechanistically, CH triggered a sharp [Ca2+] spike, relying on external calcium entry and IP3-dependent internal release via PLC activation. qRT-PCR confirmed this anabolic shift via OPG and OPN upregulation. Conclusions: Honey exerts pronounced multi-level osteopromotive effects at both the functional and transcriptional levels, tightly linked to its botanical source. Among the variants, coriander honey stands out for its exceptional ability to fast-track osteoblast migration, differentiation, and early mineral deposition. Therefore coriander honey represents a promising in vitro candidate that warrants further preclinical evaluation for bone repair applications.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42509828 is a review article
Lactiplantibacillus plantarum (L. plantarum) is a well-characterized probiotic with a long history of safe application, exhibiting prominent potential in improving skeletal muscle function. As the most prevalent and plentiful mRNA modification in eukaryotes, extensive research has highlighted the non-negligible role of N6-methyladenosine (m6A) in regulating various aspects of skeletal muscle biology. However, the underlying mechanisms through which L. plantarum-derived signals regulate host myogenic programs, as well as whether m6A modification is involved in this process, remain unclear.To explore the microbe-host regulatory axis through which L. plantarum promotes skeletal muscle regeneration and whether m6A modification is involved in this process.The cardiotoxin-induced muscle injury mouse model was constructed to investigate the impact of L. plantarum WY2401 on skeletal muscle regeneration. Untargeted metabolomics analysis was used to screen out L. plantarum WY2401-derived key metabolite. The changes in m6A modification were determined using dot blot and MeRIP-qPCR.We identified L. plantarum WY2401 as a pro-myogenic probiotic that promotes skeletal muscle regeneration. Specifically, L. plantarum WY2401 strongly alters circulating metabolomic profiles, particularly elevating the production of microbiota-derived riboflavin. Upregulated riboflavin is transported to skeletal muscle through the bloodstream, where it modulates the expression of the m6A methyltransferase METTL3 in a stage-dependent manner during myogenesis. This modulation promotes myoblast proliferation by enhancing the stability of Cdk2 and Ccnd1 mRNAs through the METTL3-m6A-YTHDF1 pathway. It also facilitates myoblast differentiation by increasing Mef2a mRNA stability through the METTL3-m6A-YTHDF2 pathway.Our findings reveal a novel microbe-host regulatory axis through which L. plantarum WY2401 promotes skeletal muscle regeneration via stage-specific epigenetic modulation of myogenesis. This work highlights the potential of L. plantarum as a functional probiotic supplement for improving skeletal muscle development and provides new insights into probiotic-mediated regulation of muscle regeneration.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skeletal muscle function deteriorates with injury, disease, or aging. While stem cell therapies offer therapeutic potential, concerns remain regarding the safety and efficacy of transplanted cells. Satellite cells (SCs), the primary endogenous stem cells responsible for muscle repair, demonstrate safe transplantation but limited clinical effectiveness. A deeper understanding of the mechanisms regulating SC activation and differentiation is critical for improving muscle regeneration strategies.We examined the role of CSRP3 in SC-mediated muscle repair using injury models and myoblast differentiation assays. We compared its function in pigs and mice, employing genetic approaches, CSRP3 knockdown (CSRP3KD), Csrp3-/- and overexpression (CSRP3OE), to assess its impact on muscle regeneration. Additionally, we investigated the AKT-SERCA2 signaling axis and its downstream effects on calcium homeostasis, mitochondrial function, and myogenic differentiation.CSRP3 was essential for muscle regeneration and SC differentiation in pigs but not in mice. Genetic ablation of CSRP3 (CSRP3KD) impaired porcine SC differentiation and reduced regenerative capacity, while CSRP3 overexpression (CSRP3OE) enhanced these processes. Mechanistically, CSRP3 deficiency disrupted AKT-SERCA2 signaling, leading to elevated intracellular Ca2⁺, mitochondrial dysfunction, and MYOG protein degradation. Pharmacological AKT activation rescued differentiation defects in CSRP3-deficient cells. Notably, Csrp3-/- mice showed normal SC differentiation and AKT-SERCA2 activity, highlighting a species-specific regulatory role for CSRP3.Our findings identify CSRP3 as a critical regulator of porcine muscle regeneration, with minimal impact in mice. These results suggest that strategically engineered porcine SCs, through CSRP3 modulation, could improve the effectiveness of xenotransplantation-based therapies for muscle repair.© 2026. The Author(s).
Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) widely existing in different breed genomes represent population-specific variations. Under the influence of long-term evolution and artificial selection, there are a large number of SNPs between Western lean-type pig breeds and Chinese indigenous pig breeds, however, until now, little is known about their roles in inter-breed differences. Our study revealed that SNP rs3471653254 C>T generated from the two types of pigs mentioned above, and located in the promoter shared by MyoG and Myoparr, played an important role in myoblast differentiation by influencing the enrichment of HOXA5 to regulate the transcription of MyoG and Myoparr. Meanwhile, Myoparr could act as a sponge for miR-30b-3p which repressed myogenic differentiation and muscle regeneration by targeting MyoD. Our results indicated that SNP rs3471653254 C>T is essential for myogenic differentiation and regeneration and could be used as an ideal site for increasing lean meat production in pigs.
Volumetric muscle loss (VML) often leads to irreversible functional impairment due to limited endogenous regeneration and poor outcomes of current therapies. Collagen fibers are piezoelectric biomaterials and key components of the skeletal muscle extracellular matrix. With excellent biocompatibility, deformability, and capacity to promote myocyte proliferation and differentiation, collagen holds great promise for muscle repair and regeneration. However, the inherently weak piezoelectricity, structural disorder, and insufficient mechanical properties limit the practical application. This study introduces a co-assembly strategy using gallic acid (GA) to enhance the piezoelectric performance of collagen through interactions between the phenolic hydroxyl groups of GA and collagen, which may contribute to a more ordered hydrogen-bonding network and promote the oriented arrangement of phenolic hydroxyl groups. On this basis, a collagen fiber-based piezoelectric material (CFPM) was fabricated by combining salting-out and pre-stretching, exhibiting stable piezoelectric output, skeletal muscle-matched mechanical properties, and an anisotropic structure. Under ultrasound activation, CFPM generates electrical signals that synergize with topological cues to promote myoblast differentiation and the formation of aligned myotubes. In a rat VML model, CFPM implantation with ultrasound significantly enhances muscle regeneration, reduces fibrosis, and improves functional recovery. Collectively, the enhanced piezoelectric collagen with aligned microstructure developed in this study represents a promising biomaterial strategy for VML repair.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) is a severe X-linked disorder characterized by progressive degeneration of skeletal and cardiac muscles caused by mutations in the DMD gene encoding dystrophin, a protein essential for cytoskeletal integrity and muscle function. A truncated dystrophin leads to increased muscle susceptibility to contraction-induced damage, driving chronic inflammation and fibrosis. Although corticosteroids remain the standard of care, novel therapeutic strategies are urgently needed. Niclosamide, a long-established anthelmintic drug, has recently been repurposed in inflammatory and fibrotic conditions, including neuromuscular diseases. We investigated the effects of niclosamide in vitro using primary macrophages from mdx mice, human DMD myoblasts, and murine C2C12 myoblast cultures, and in vivo in a proof-of-concept study in mdx mice. In primary mdx macrophages, niclosamide reduced inflammation and reactive oxygen species production, while promoting an anti-inflammatory/pro-regenerative phenotype. In parallel, niclosamide enhanced the differentiation of human DMD myoblasts, and conditioned medium from niclosamide-treated macrophages significantly improved C2C12 myoblast differentiation. In treated mdx mice, niclosamide improved muscle resistance and reduced muscle damage, as indicated by decreased plasma creatine kinase levels and lower immunoglobulin infiltration. These effects were accompanied by modulation of key markers involved in muscle proliferation and differentiation, supporting a beneficial role of niclosamide in promoting muscle repair in dystrophic muscle. Overall, these findings indicate that niclosamide promotes an anti-inflammatory and pro-regenerative environment, enhancing myoblast differentiation and limiting muscle degeneration, supporting its potential role as a promising therapeutic candidate for Duchenne muscular dystrophy.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Although myostatin is a well-established inhibitor of myogenesis, its downstream mediators remain poorly characterized. This study identified integrin β1 (ITGB1), an integrin family member, as a novel mediator in myostatin signaling. Our results demonstrated that ITGB1 promoted C2C12 myoblast differentiation. Myostatin treatment significantly downregulated ITGB1 expression and suppressed myogenic differentiation, whereas ITGB1 overexpression reversed the inhibitory effects of myostatin. Bioinformatic prediction and dual-luciferase reporter assay revealed that miR-124 suppressed ITGB1 expression by targeting its 3' untranslated region (UTR). Importantly, miR-124 reduced C2C12 myoblast differentiation by suppressing ITGB1. Furthermore, myostatin treatment markedly enhanced the expression of miR-124 in C2C12 myoblasts, thereby suppressing ITGB1. In vivo, blocking the myostatin/miR-124/ITGB1 pathway significantly promoted skeletal muscle growth in mice. Accordingly, these data revealed that myostatin negatively regulated skeletal muscle growth in mice by promoting the miR-124-mediated epigenetic repression of ITGB1. Our findings provide new insights into the regulation of myogenesis via myostatin signaling.
Skeletal muscle atrophy is a frequent comorbidity of metabolic disorders and chronic diseases, and despite its high prevalence, no pharmacological therapy is available, representing a major unmet clinical need. Adiponectin and its receptors are key regulators of skeletal muscle metabolism, mitochondrial function and myogenesis, yet clinical translation has been hindered by the lack of receptor-selective agonists with favourable pharmacological and safety profiles. Here, we report the identification and characterization of CDRI-1709S, the first small-molecule AdipoR1-selective agonist and evaluate its myogenic and anti-atrophy efficacy.A PGC-1α luciferase reporter-based screen in AdipoR1/AdipoR2-transfected, AdipoR-low HEK293T cells identified CDRI-1709S as an AdipoR1 agonist. Adiponectin-associated signalling events were evaluated by immunoblotting in AdipoR1/2-overexpressing HEK293T cells and AdipoR-abundant C2C12 myotubes, with receptor specificity confirmed using RNA interference. Myogenic potential was assessed by morphometric analysis and immune detection of myogenic factors. Fibre-type composition and metabolic capacity were evaluated using immunoblotting and extracellular flux analysis. Anti-atrophy effects were examined in vitro using various assault-induced models of myotube atrophy, and in vivo using rat models of dexamethasone (Dex) and sciatic nerve denervation-induced muscle atrophy.CDRI-1709S selectively activated AdipoR1 with high potency (EC50: 414.7pM) and, at a pharmacologically relevant concentration (100 nM), induced rapid adiponectin-associated signalling, including phosphorylation of AMPK, AKT and p38-MAPK, along with upregulation of its downstream skeletal muscle metabolic targets PGC-1α, GLUT4 and UCP3 in an AdipoR1-dependent manner (p < 0.05). CDRI-1709S promoted C2C12 myoblast differentiation into mature myotubes, accompanied by increased expression of MyoD and myogenin (p < 0.05). Treated myotubes were protected against cytokine-, Dex- and nutrient-deprivation-induced atrophy through suppression of atrogenes Atrogin-1 and MuRF-1 (p < 0.01), restoration of myogenic markers (p < 0.05) and prevention of Dex-induced fibre-type switching toward glycolytic MyHC-IIB, with concomitant induction of slow (MyHC-I) and fast (MyHC-IIA) oxidative fibres (p < 0.05). CDRI-1709S also reversed Dex-mediated impairments in oxidative and glycolytic capacity (p < 0.05). Oral administration of CDRI-1709S (10 mg/kg/day) in Dex- and denervation-induced rat models restored atrogene expression, myogenic markers, local adiponectin signalling and myofibrillar architecture to normalcy (p < 0.05 to p < 0.0001). CDRI-1709S prevented Dex-induced enrichment of glycolytic fibres and preserved oxidative fibre composition (p < 0.05). The structural/molecular improvements translated into significant functional enhancements, including toe-spread reflex in denervated limbs (p < 0.05) and increased grip strength (p < 0.0001) plus prolonged wire-hang duration (p < 0.01) in Dex-treated animals.CDRI-1709S is the first AdipoR1-selective small-molecule agonist that induced myogenesis and robustly ameliorated skeletal muscle atrophy, establishing the proof-of-concept for AdipoR1-targeting as a promising therapeutic strategy for sarcopenia and skeletal muscle atrophy.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cachexia, Sarcopenia and Muscle published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are known to regulate skeletal muscle development in mammals, but their roles and potential as genetic markers in chickens remain largely unknown. Carcass traits such as breast muscle weight and body weight are economically important in poultry production. Based on our previous RNA-seq data (accession number PRJNA751251), LOC416755 is differentially expressed between the Soleus (SOL) and Pectoralis major (PEM) in Xinghua (XH) chickens. In this study, we further revealed that LOC416755 was highly expressed in the PEM, localized in the nucleus of chicken primary myoblasts, and progressively upregulated during myoblast differentiation. Nine SNPs were identified within LOC416755. Association analysis revealed that SNP1, SNP2, SNP4, SNP5, and SNP7 were significantly associated with shank length, full-bore weight, breast muscle weight, body weight, and abdominal fat weight (P < 0.05). Linkage disequilibrium analysis defined two haplotype blocks, and haplotype variation within block 2 showed a significant association with shank length. The heterozygous genotype consistently exhibited superior phenotypic values for most associated traits. Collectively, these results suggest a potential role for LOC416755 in skeletal muscle development and highlight its potential as a molecular marker for marker-assisted selection to accelerate breed improvement in chickens.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 16551251 is a review article
The high-mobility group (HMG) protein A2 has been studied mostly in the mouse where its function seems critical for embryonic cell growth and adipogenesis, leading to a pygmy phenotype with greatly reduced fat tissue in homozygous knock out mice. We showed recently that among the major HMG proteins, HMGA2 is highly expressed in two human embryonic stem (hES) cell lines. Here, we employed siRNA technology in combination with quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, stem cell-specific microarray analyses, and cell proliferation assays in order to probe into HMGA2's role(s) in pluripotent hES cells. Our results establish HMGA2 as a regulator of human genes linked to mesenchymal cell differentiation, adipogenesis, and hES cell growth.
Heterotrimeric GTP-binding proteins (G proteins) participate in cellular signaling and regulate a variety of physiological processes. Disruption of the gene encoding the G protein subunit alpha13 (Galpha13) in mice impaired the ability of endothelial cells to develop into an organized vascular system, resulting in intrauterine death. In addition, Galpha13 (-/-) embryonic fibroblasts showed greatly impaired migratory responses to thrombin. These results demonstrate that Galpha13 participates in the regulation of cell movement in response to specific ligands, as well as in developmental angiogenesis.
