Skipped: PubMed ID 42561665 is a review article
Diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-D) is characterized by diarrhea and is often accompanied by depression, abdominal symptoms, and emotional comorbidities. Preclinical and clinical studies have shown that dysfunction of the brain-gut axis is a key pathogenic factor in IBS-D, yet the specific mechanisms remain unclear. Saikosaponin D (SSD), a major bioactive component of Bupleurum chinense DC., exhibits anti-inflammatory, antidepressant, and antitumor activities, with multi-target and multi-pathway interactions.Acetic acid and restraint stress induced an IBS-D mouse model. SSD (purity ≥ 98%, Macklin Inc.) was administered orally at low, medium, and high doses (5, 10, 20 mg/kg). Visceral sensitivity, inflammatory status, intestinal barrier function, HPA axis activity, and gut microbiota composition were systematically evaluated using behavioral tests, Western blot, qRT-PCR, and 16S rRNA sequencing.SSD significantly alleviated visceral hypersensitivity and depression-like behavior, inhibited the peripheral HMGB1-TLR4/NF-κB inflammatory pathway, and restored intestinal barrier integrity. SSD also downregulated hypothalamic Nesfatin-1/CRH/p-CREB expression, suppressed hyperactivation of the stress-related HPA neuroendocrine axis, and reshaped the gut microbial community structure (β-diversity). Network pharmacology analysis suggested that SSD targets were significantly enriched in brain-gut axis-related pathways.The present results indicate that SSD could ameliorate IBS-D by synergistically regulating peripheral inflammation, central stress, and intestinal microbes via the brain-gut-microbiota axis, providing experimental evidence for its potential application in TCM-based treatment.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42557175
This study investigated whether gasdermin E (GSDME) deficiency attenuates caerulein/lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced severe acute pancreatitis (SAP) in mice. Wild-type (WT) and Gsdme-knockout (KO) mice were assigned to PBS or caerulein/LPS groups. SAP was induced by repeated intraperitoneal caerulein injections for 2 consecutive days followed by a single LPS injection. Pancreatic injury was assessed by body weight change, pancreas-to-body weight ratio, serum amylase and lipase, and histopathology. Inflammatory responses were evaluated by serum cytokines, serum and pancreatic IL-33, HMGB1 subcellular distribution, and MPO/F4/80 immunohistochemistry. Cell death and gasdermin pathway activation were assessed by TUNEL staining and Western blotting. Compared with WT mice subjected to caerulein/LPS challenge, Gsdme-deficient mice showed less body weight loss, lower histopathological scores, and attenuated systemic inflammatory responses. Serum and pancreatic IL-33 levels, HMGB1 nuclear-to-cytoplasmic translocation, and circulating HMGB1 were also reduced in KO mice. Consistently, pancreatic MPO- and F4/80-positive inflammatory cell infiltration, TUNEL positivity, and the cleaved caspase-3/total caspase-3 ratio were reduced in KO mice. Cleaved and full-length GSDME were absent in KO pancreatic tissues, whereas caerulein/LPS treatment increased cleaved GSDME levels in WT mice. The cleaved caspase-1/total caspase-1 ratio and cleaved GSDMD expression increased after caerulein/LPS challenge in both genotypes, but neither was further elevated in KO mice, indicating no detectable compensatory upregulation of the canonical caspase-1/GSDMD pathway at the examined time point. Collectively, Gsdme deficiency alleviated caerulein/LPS-induced pancreatic injury and systemic inflammation, indicating that the caspase-3/GSDME axis contributes importantly, but not exclusively, to experimental SAP.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42553204 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42549541 is a review article
Despite the established importance of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) in redox biology, strategies to modulate its endogenous levels remain largely unexplored. Here, we show that a keratin fraction (KF) obtained from natural sources modulates H2S homeostasis and protein redox state through sulfhydration. Chemoproteomic analysis identified keratin 2 (K2; UniProtKB P25691, keratin, type II microfibrillar, component 5) as the most hyperreactive keratin toward sulfhydration. Oral administration of K2 to mice alleviated lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammatory fever and led to the generation of K2-derived peptides (K2Ps) and their sulfhydrated form (K2P-SSH) in the intestine. Compared with K2Ps, K2P-SSH showed enhanced anti-inflammatory and antioxidant activities and promoted widespread protein sulfhydration. Mechanistically, K2P-SSH induced sulfhydration of high-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) at Cys23 and Cys106, which was associated with reduced disulfide bond formation and dimerization, impaired interaction with toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), and attenuation of downstream inflammatory signaling. Taken together, this study reveals a previously unrecognized role of K2 in converting H2S into protective sulfhydration signals and identifies K2P-SSH as a bioactive intermediate that alleviates oxidative-inflammatory stress via sulfhydration of HMGB1 at Cys23 and Cys106.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a malignancy closely linked to Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection, and its progression is intricately associated with remodeling of the tumor microenvironment (TME). However, the role of EBV-associated extracellular vesicles (EVs), particularly those containing high mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), in NPC development remains poorly understood.This study utilized multiomics approaches to investigate the role of HMGB1-containing EVs (HMGB1-EVs) derived from EBV-associated NPC cells. Serum EVs from NPC patients were analyzed for HMGB1 content, and their diagnostic performance was evaluated. Mechanistic studies were performed to elucidate the regulation of HMGB1-EV biogenesis and their functional effects on immune cells within the TME.HMGB1-EVs exhibited high sensitivity and specificity for NPC diagnosis (AUC = 0.83), with significantly elevated HMGB1 levels detected in serum EVs from NPC patients. These levels were strongly associated with tumor stage, EBV-DNA load, and metastasis risk (AUC = 0.9), suggesting their potential as liquid biopsy biomarkers. Mechanistically, EBV infection induced Rab26 expression, facilitating the release of EV-associated HMGB1. In the TME, HMGB1-EVs were associated with an immunosuppressive macrophage phenotype by upregulating PD-L1 expression on macrophages via PLGRKT.This study reveals the molecular mechanism by which EBV-associated HMGB1-EVs may contribute to NPC progression and potential immune evasion. HMGB1-EVs hold promise as both diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets, offering novel insights into the precision management of NPC.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
This study aimed to investigate the differences in the ameliorative effects and underlying mechanisms of Buyang Huanwu Decoction(BHD) and its different ethanol elution fractions on pulmonary fibrosis(PF). The content of amygdalin, formononetin, kaempferol, ferulic acid and paeoniflorin in the drug-containing sera of BHD and its different fractions were determined using ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem quadrupole mass spectrometry. A rat model of PF was established by intratracheal instillation of bleomycin(BLM). The rats were divided into seven groups: a control group, a BLM group, a prednisone acetate(PA) group, a BHD group, a 30% ethanol elution fraction(Fr30) group, a 50% ethanol elution fraction(Fr50) group, and a 90% ethanol elution fraction(Fr90) group. All treatments were administered continuously for 21 days. The degrees of lung inflammation and fibrosis were observed by HE and Masson staining. The hydroxyproline(HYP) levels in lung tissue were determined using a HYP assay kit. The levels of interleukin-1β(IL-1β), interleukin-6(IL-6), interleukin-10(IL-10), tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), and high mobility group box 1 protein(HMGB1) in lung tissue were determined using ELISA kits. The levels of total superoxide dismutase(T-SOD), malondialdehyde(MDA) and glutathione peroxidase(GSH-PX) in lung tissue were determined using corresponding commercial kits. Immunofluorescence staining and Western blot were used to detect the levels of epithelial-mesenchymal transition(EMT)-related proteins in lung tissue. RT-qPCR and Western blot were employed to determine the mRNA and protein levels of factors associated with the transforming growth factor-β1(TGF-β1)/Sma and Mad-related protein(Smad) pathway in lung tissue. The results showed that amygdalin was detected in the drug-containing sera of all groups, with the highest content in the Fr30 group and the lowest in the Fr90 group. Formononetin and kaempferol were detected in the BHD, Fr50, and Fr90 groups, with the highest content in the Fr50 group and the lowest in the Fr90 group. Ferulic acid was detected in all groups, with the highest content in the BHD group and the lowest in the Fr30 group. Paeoniflorin was only detected in the BHD and Fr30 groups, with similar content. Compared with the BLM group, the levels of HYP, TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β, HMGB1, and MDA decreased in all treatment groups, while the levels of IL-10, T-SOD, and GSH-PX increased. However, there was no statistical significance in the changes of T-SOD level in the Fr30 group and HYP and IL-10 levels in the Fr90 group compared with the BLM group. Immunofluorescence staining showed a marked decrease in the protein expression of α-smooth muscle actin(α-SMA) in the lung tissue of the BHD, Fr30, Fr50, and Fr90 groups. Western blot analysis showed that the expression of epithelial cadherin(E-cadherin) significantly increased, while α-SMA and vimentin protein expressions significantly decreased in the lung tissue of the BHD, Fr30, Fr50, and Fr90 groups. RT-qPCR and Western blot analysis revealed that the mRNA and protein levels of TGF-β1 in the BHD and Fr30 groups significantly decreased, the phosphorylation(p)-Smad3/Smad3 ratio in all treatment groups significantly decreased, and the mRNA and protein levels of Smad7 in the BHD, Fr30 and Fr50 groups significantly increased. In conclusion, BHD and its different ethanol elution fractions may ameliorate BLM-induced PF in rats by inhibiting the TGF-β1/Smad pathway, with the Fr30 and Fr50 fractions showing better ameliorative effects.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42542394
Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is a highly metastatic bile duct cancer with the highest global incidence in Northeastern Thailand. Most patients are diagnosed at advanced stages, necessitating the identification of novel prognostic markers and therapeutic targets. High mobility group A1 (HMGA1) is a non-histone chromosomal protein that orchestrates the transcription of genes involved in tumor progression, and its overexpression has been implicated in multiple malignancies. Aims: This study aimed to investigate the clinical significance and oncogenic roles of HMGA1 in CCA progression.HMGA1 expression was evaluated in a hamster CCA model and human CCA tissues using immunohistochemistry. The functional effects of HMGA1 on cell growth, migration, and invasion, along with the underlying molecular mechanisms were investigated in vitro using human CCA cell lines.HMGA1 upregulation was detected as an early event in the cholangiocarcinogenesis of a hamster model. In the human cohort (n = 81), high HMGA1 expression significantly correlated with histological type (p=0.014), metastatic stage (p=0.004) and shorter overall survival (p=0.024). In vitro, siRNA-mediated suppression of HMGA1 remarkably inhibited cell proliferation. While HMGA1 silencing increased cleaved caspase-3, it resulted in only a modest increase in the apoptotic cells. Instead, this caspase activation was primarily associated with a marked reduction in cell migration and invasion through the modulation of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) markers, and cytoskeletal remodeling in a cell line-specific manner. Conclusions: These retrospective and preclinical findings suggest that HMGA1 is a critical driver of CCA progression and a valuable prognostic indicator. HMGA1 promotes neoplastic transformation and aggressiveness of CCA. Targeting HMGA1 may serve as a potential therapeutic strategy to attenuate CCA progression, warranting further clinical validation.© The Author(s) 2026.
Uveal melanoma (UM) is a challenging malignancy, in terms of diagnosis, risk stratification, and treatment associated with high morbidity and mortality rates. It has been demonstrated that E2F-related pathways play a significant role in the tumorigenesis and distant metastasis of UM. In this study, the E2F target-related genes were utilized to construct and validate a prognostic risk score for patients with UM.Using the TCGA-UVM cohort (n = 80), 192 E2F target genes were screened using gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) to identify survival-associated genes. Prognostic genes were filtered using Kaplan-Meier analysis, univariate Cox regression, and LASSO, followed by multivariate Cox regression to construct a risk score model. The model was validated using the GSE22138 cohort (n = 63). Functional annotations of the risk score and its impact on stratifying tumor immune microenvironment components were assessed.A total of 9 genes (CDC25B, NME1, RFC2, PRDX4, NASP, UBE2S, PRKDC, MCM6, and LBR) passed the model construction pipeline. The risk score categorization system showed an independent prognostic power (HR: 2.34, 95% CI: 1.11-4.90, p = 0.025) and a good predictability of the survival outcome (receiver operating characteristic curve analysis: area under the curve = 0.730, 95% CI: 0.60-0.86, p = 0.002). When analyzing the most frequently mutated gene cohorts, the risk score was significantly lower in the mutated subgroups of GNAQ, SF3B1, and EIF1AX. In contrast, the risk score was notably higher in the BAP1 mutated subgroup. Copy number analysis of chromosomal arms showed significant correlations between the risk score and 1q, 3q, 3p, 6p, 8q. The high-risk group showed significant infiltration for NK cells, plasma B cells, gamma delta T cells, follicular T cells, M1 and M2 macrophages with lower infiltration of common myeloid progenitor cells. In addition, the high-risk group showed higher immune and microenvironment scores.The developed E2F target-related gene model offers a robust tool for predicting the prognosis of UM patients. As a potential risk stratification method for UM, this model could have clinical applications pending further evaluation.© 2026 S. Karger AG, Basel.
Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) are key components of the tumor immune-suppressive microenvironment. However, studies focusing on the modulation of TAM-specific gene signatures to improve neuroblastoma (NB) prognosis are limited. MYCN amplification (MNA) is known to influence the immune landscape in neuroblastoma.Single-cell sequencing of 19 NB samples and transcriptome data from 498 NB samples were analyzed to identify macrophage-specific genes associated with poor NB prognosis. A risk signature was constructed by integrating differentially expressed genes (DEGs) related to TAMs and MYCN using univariate Cox regression, LASSO regression, and Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. Single-factor and multi-factor Cox regression analyses were conducted to explore the relationship between clinical characteristics and prognosis, and a nomogram was constructed. The impact of downregulating TAM target genes in macrophages was explored using CCK8, EdU incorporation, and Transwell assays.A signature based on five macrophage-related genes associated with NB prognosis (FCGR3A, ATF5, MTHFD2, HMGA1, and LY6E) was successfully established and validated for its strong prognostic predictive performance (AUC: 0.829). A clinically applicable Nomogram incorporating these genes was also developed. CCK-8 assays revealed a time-dependent inhibitory effect on neuroblastoma cell proliferation upon co-culture with MTHFD2-knockdown macrophages. EdU and Transwell assays showed that downregulation of MTHFD2 in macrophages significantly reduced the invasive and migratory capabilities of NB cells, particularly in MYCN-amplified cells.We developed and validated a five-gene signature based on TAM and MYCN-related genes with strong prognostic performance. Downregulation of MTHFD2 in macrophages reduced neuroblastoma cell proliferation, invasion, and migration, particularly in MYCN-amplified cells, highlighting MTHFD2 as a potential therapeutic target in high-risk patients.© 2026. The Author(s).
Telomerase maintains chromosome ends by extending telomeric DNA, yet how recruited telomerase becomes productively engaged remains poorly understood. Recent studies found that Replication Protein A (RPA) contributes to telomerase stimulation through interaction with TERT in humans and with the TPP1 ortholog Est3 in budding yeast, suggesting a direct role in telomerase activation. Here, we provide genetic and structural modeling evidence for a RPA-Trt1 TERT -Tpz1 TPP1 ternary complex that promotes telomere extension while suppressing recombination in fission yeast. Guided by results from genetic screen, followed by AlphaFold3 modeling and systematic mutagenesis of RPA, Trt1, and Tpz1, we identify four key interfaces supporting telomerase function: Ssb1 RPA1 -Trt1, Ssb2 RPA2 -Trt1, Ssb2 RPA2 -Tpz1, and the TEL-patch-mediated Trt1-Tpz1 interaction. Notably, Tpz1-R81, previously assigned as the TEL patch, instead contacts Ssb2 in the complex. Epistasis and suppressor analyses indicate that the newly identified RPA-Trt1 and RPA-Tpz1 interfaces collaborate with the Trt1-Tpz1 interface to allow telomerase activation after recruitment. Furthermore, comparative analyses using AlphaFold3 suggest that these interactions are likely conserved in budding yeast and humans. Collectively, these findings support a model in which RPA serves as an essential component of the active telomerase complex, coordinating TERT and TPP1-like factors to enable productive telomerase engagement.Telomeres are specialized dynamic protective structures at the ends of eukaryotic chromosomes that must be properly maintained to preserve genome stability. Telomerase extends telomeric DNA, but how recruited telomerase becomes fully activated to promote telomere extension remains poorly understood. In this study, we use fission yeast to investigate the role of the conserved single-stranded DNA-binding protein complex Replication Protein A (RPA) in this process. We find that RPA forms a functional complex with the telomerase catalytic subunit TERT and Tpz1, a component of the telomere protection complex shelterin and the fission yeast ortholog of human TPP1. Genetic and structural analyses identify multiple interactions within the RPA-TERT-Tpz1 complex that are required for efficient telomere extension. Disrupting these interactions allows telomerase recruitment but prevents productive telomerase action at chromosome ends. Our results further suggest that similar mechanisms may operate in other organisms, including budding yeast and humans. These findings provide insight into how telomerase activity is regulated at chromosome ends.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42527943
APOBEC3A (A3A) and APOBEC3B (A3B) induce single base substitution signatures SBS2 and SBS13, which are composed of C>T and C>G mutations, respectively, at TCW sequences in >50% of sequenced tumors. However, few driver mutations have been attributed to APOBEC-induced SBS mutations. Although SBS2 and SBS13 have been associated with additional mutation types, the contribution of APOBECs to non-SBS mutations and the mechanisms that generate noncanonical APOBEC-induced mutations are uncharacterized. Here, we show that A3A expression generates non-SBS mutations including C deletions within TTC motifs, CC>TT and TC>AT/CT/GT dinucleotide variants (DNVs), distinct classes of paired SNV-SNV events, and complex insertion-SBS mutations in a yeast model system. Furthermore, we found that endogenous APOBEC expression in breast cancer cell lines is a significant driver of all these mutation types. In addition, we show that C deletions and complex insertion-SBS mutations within TTC motifs occur primarily by strand slippage during translesion synthesis (TLS) bypass of APOBEC-induced, UNG-dependent, abasic sites. Additionally, we found that CC>TT and TC>AT/CT/GT DNVs, which comprise the APOBEC-associated DBS11 signature, are generated by dU templating and TLS bypass of APOBEC-induced abasic sites, respectively. We also present data indicating that phased APOBEC-induced SNV-SNV mutations are produced during abasic site bypass by TLS. Analysis of WGS data from cultured human cells and tumors indicates that similar mechanisms generate these noncanonical APOBEC-induced mutations in human cancers, providing additional means by which APOBECs could contribute to carcinogenesis and therapeutic resistance.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) progression from benign polyps to malignant adenocarcinomas is a complex process involving the abnormal proliferation and differentiation of colon epithelial cells. Colorectal adenomas (CRAs), the precursors to most CRCs, are histologically classified into tubular adenomas (TAs), tubulovillous adenomas (TVAs), and villous adenomas (VAs). Despite new findings, the molecular signatures and pathways specific to each adenoma type remain poorly understood. This study aimed to identify specific biomarkers and pathways associated with the progression of TA, TVA, and VA to CRC.We analyzed gene expression data from 169 CRA samples and 65 adjacent normal tissues from the GSE117606 and GSE117607 datasets. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified for each adenoma type, followed by functional enrichment and protein-protein interaction network analysis. Our results revealed 1,024 DEGs common to all three adenoma types, with COL1A2 and CXCL8 highlighted as hub genes. Additionally, specific genes such as NTRK2, JUN, LAT, and DRD2 were identified for TA; H2AFZ, NME1, MRTO4, and SSRP1 were identified for TVA; and WDR43, POLR1B, and NHP2 were identified for VA. Functional enrichment analysis revealed key pathways involved in adenoma progression, providing insights into the molecular mechanisms driving their malignancy potential. The expression of candidate genes was further validated by RT-qPCR, and repeated cross-validated ROC analysis supported the discriminative potential of CXCL8 and COL1A2 for distinguishing CRA and CRC tissues from adjacent normal mucosa.These findings provide valuable insights into adenoma biology and offer potential applications for targeted therapies in CRC prevention and treatment.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42516385 is a review article
Gallbladder carcinoma (GBC) is a highly aggressive malignancy characterized by an extremely poor prognosis and limited therapeutic options. N6-methyladenosine (m6A), the most prevalent post-transcriptional modification in eukaryotic mRNA, plays a pivotal role in regulating tumor progression. Screening of an siRNA library targeting YTH-domain family reader proteins identified YTH domain-containing family protein 2 (YTHDF2) as essential for the malignant phenotype of GBC cells. YTHDF2 was aberrantly upregulated in GBC tissues and served as an independent predictor of poor prognosis. Genetic silencing of YTHDF2 markedly suppressed both proliferation and metastatic potential of GBC cells in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, YTHDF2 transcription is upregulated through P300 histone acetyltransferase-mediated H3K27ac modification. YTHDF2 promotes mRNA degradation by binding to m6A-modified sites within the transcript encoding the metastasis suppressor non-metastatic protein 1 (NME1), thereby repressing NME1 expression and accelerating GBC malignancy. Co-treatment with the P300 inhibitor C646 and the m6A modification inhibitor STM2457 synergistically inhibited YTHDF2-mediated GBC malignancy. Collectively, these findings establish the P300-YTHDF2-m6A-NME1 axis as a critical driver of GBC progression and indicate that combined C646 and STM2457 treatment represents a novel and promising therapeutic strategy for GBC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The cerebellar rhombic lip (RL) of the prenatal hindbrain is a progenitor niche essential for cerebellar glutamatergic neurogenesis. Humans demonstrate a structural elaboration of this niche with a rhombic lip subventricular zone (RL-SVZ). Disruption of this zone causes cerebellar malformations and tumors, yet its gene regulatory networks are poorly understood. We present a predicted gene regulatory network for the human RL inferred from epigenomic maps of the developing human cerebellum. We generated DNA methylomes from microdissected mid-gestation human RL ventricular zone (RL-VZ) and RL-SVZ (N = 9; 15-16 post-conception weeks) using low-input Enzymatic MethylSeq, and profiled histone marks of active promoters and enhancers in whole fetal cerebellum (N = 6; 14 and 18 weeks). Transition from RL-VZ to RL-SVZ is accompanied by widespread hypomethylation, including 9,855 differentially methylated regions (DMRs) enriched for binding sites of ATOH1, NEUROD1/2, and HMGA1. Of these, 88.9% are hypomethylated in RL-SVZ, enriched in active enhancers and human accelerated regions, and depleted at promoters. By integrating DMRs with bulk tissue histone maps as well as single-cell chromatin accessibility and transcriptomic maps of the mid-gestation cerebellum, we inferred over 100,000 transcription factor-enhancer-gene links. Twenty-five DMRs overlap human accelerated regions near genes implicated in intellectual disability, autism spectrum disorder, and neurological deficits. DMRs are also enriched in copy-number aberrations in medulloblastoma, with ~ 25% overlapping known aberrant regions, nominating disrupted promoters and enhancers. These data provide a framework for interpreting non-coding variation in human cerebellar development and disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Sperm cryodamage is a key factor affecting its post-thaw quality. This study aims to systematically elucidate the molecular response mechanisms of bovine sperm cryodamage by integrating transcriptomic and proteomic analyses. By utilizing the swim-up technique to isolate sperm subpopulations with mild and severe cryodamage, thereby minimizing interference from individual genetic variation. Results demonstrated that mildly damaged sperm exhibited superior motility, structural integrity, and antioxidant capacity, along with less reactive oxygen species accumulation and more active Wnt, mTOR, and Hippo signaling pathways at the transcriptional level. Severely damaged sperm exhibited activation of pathways related to oxidative phosphorylation, thermogenesis, peroxisome, glutathione metabolism, phagocytosis, and DNA repair at the protein level, with ATP5MG, GPX1, XRCC1, and AP1M2 serving as core regulatory factors in these pathways. Additionally, integrated analysis identified eight potential biomarker proteins, including apoptosis-related protein ARL6IP5, anti-apoptotic protein GRINA, adhesion factors CDHR1/LGALS1, DNA repair proteins CUL4B/POLR2E, and core factors RPL14/A1BG in the protein-protein interaction network. Notably, the protein levels of ARL6IP5, CDHR1, and LGALS1 were inconsistent with their gene expression levels. These candidate molecules showed significant correlations with post-thaw sperm quality and were quantitatively validated. The results indicate that mitochondrial energy metabolism, antioxidant and anti-apoptotic defense systems, as well as self-repair and clearance responses, including nucleic acid repair and phagocytosis, represent the molecular response characteristics of sperm cryodamage. These findings complement the molecular mechanisms and regulatory networks of sperm cryodamage, and provide potential targets for evaluating the cryopreservation potential of bull semen and optimizing cryoprotectants.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565918 is a review article
Chondrosarcoma is a common bone sarcoma in adults with limited therapeutic options due to frequent chemoresistance. Cisplatin (CDDP) is a key chemotherapeutic agent, but resistance often develops. This study investigated the role and mechanism of circular RNA HMGB2 (circHMGB2) in cisplatin resistance of chondrosarcoma. Clinically, circHMGB2 was upregulated in chondrosarcoma tumors and associated with cisplatin resistance and poor patient survival. Functionally, exogenous overexpression of circHMGB2 elevated cisplatin resistance in chondrosarcoma cells (SW1353, OUMS-27) in vitro, while its silencing re-sensitized resistant cells. Mechanistically, circHMGB2 did not function as a miRNA sponge but acted as a competitive molecular decoy for the RNA-binding protein IGF2BP1. We demonstrated that circHMGB2 directly binds IGF2BP1, competitively impairing IGF2BP1's binding to and stabilization of Grb10 mRNA, leading to its destabilization and subsequent downregulation of Grb10 protein. This suppression of Grb10, a known negative regulator of the PI3K/Akt pathway, resulted in constitutive Akt phosphorylation, driving resistance. Crucially, co-overexpression of IGF2BP1 rescued circHMGB2-induced Grb10 downregulation, Akt activation, and cisplatin resistance, validating the decoy mechanism. Furthermore, in a cisplatin-resistant xenograft model, silencing circHMGB2 synergized with cisplatin to significantly inhibit tumor growth, improve host survival, and upregulate intratumoral Grb10 while suppressing Akt phosphorylation. Our results delineate a novel circHMGB2/IGF2BP1/Grb10/Akt axis that drives cisplatin resistance in chondrosarcoma. Targeting circHMGB2 could therefore serve as a promising therapeutic strategy to overcome chemoresistance and enhance treatment efficacy.
Sepsis is a life-threatening syndrome characterized by dysregulated immune responses, while the molecular basis of immune dysfunction remains unclear. Increasing evidence suggests that R-loop accumulation and DNA damage may contribute to immune disorders, but their roles in sepsis have not been systematically investigated.Four GEO microarray datasets were integrated after batch-effect correction and normalization. Differential expression analysis and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) were performed to identify sepsis-related genes. Overlapping R-loop-related genes (RLRGs) were obtained by intersecting differentially expressed genes, key module genes, and curated RLRGs. Machine learning was then applied to prioritize hub genes and construct an optimal diagnostic model, which was validated in external cohorts. A nomogram, single-cell RNA-sequencing analysis, survival analysis, and in vivo/in vitro experiments were further used for validation.Five overlapping RLRGs (EXOSC4, GADD45A, HMGB2, LDHA, and PRKDC) were identified, and all were consistently retained by top-performing machine learning models, supporting their robustness. The five-gene nomogram showed good calibration and clinical utility. Single-cell analysis revealed cell-type-specific expression across neutrophils, monocytes, and T cells. Among the five genes, only GADD45A was significantly associated with poor survival. Experimental validation showed that GADD45A was upregulated in a CLP-induced sepsis mouse model. In HL-60 cells, GADD45A silencing reduced LPS-induced inflammatory cytokine expression, R-loop accumulation, and DNA damage.GADD45A is a promising biomarker for the diagnosis and prognosis of sepsis and may promote disease progression by enhancing R-loop accumulation and DNA damage.Copyright © 2026 by the Shock Society.
The genus Abelmoschus (Malvaceae) includes cultivated okra (A. esculentus), yet its phylogenetic relationships remain unresolved using limited molecular markers.In this study, complete chloroplast genomes of A. esculentus and the first complete plastome of A. ficulneus were assembled and analyzed together with published plastomes of three additional Abelmoschus species and Hibiscus rosasinensis as an outgroup.Plastome sizes ranged from 163, 119 to 163, 503 bp, with conserved quadripartite structures and GC content (~36.7%). A total of 751 and 755 simple sequence repeats (SSRs) were identified in AE12 and AF01, respectively, with hexanucleotide repeats as the dominant class (~25%) and a consistent enrichment in the LSC region (~62-64%). Codon usage analysis of 64 codons revealed a conserved bias toward A/U-ending codons, with no substantial interspecific variation. IR boundary analysis identified a genus-specific feature, with rps3 consistently located within IR regions in Abelmoschus, in contrast to rpl2 in Hibiscus. Polymorphism analysis across 271 genomic regions identified nine hypervariable loci, all exhibiting five haplotypes (Hap = 5) and maximum haplotype diversity (Hd = 1). Nucleotide diversity was low overall (mean p = 0.00116). Phylogenetic reconstruction based on complete plastomes resolved two strongly supported clades (SH-like ≥ 0.99) and consistently placed A. ficulneus with A. esculentus. Hypervariable loci including ycf1, trnK-rps16, atpH-atpI, ndhF, and ndhF-rpl32 reproduced the full plastome topology. These results provide plastome-scale evidence refining the phylogenetic placement of A. ficulneus and identify validated loci for molecular marker development within Abelmoschus.Copyright © 2026 Korkar, Elhefnawi, Fiteha, Mohamed Rizk, Faiesal, Rashed and Magdy.
In metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH), abnormalities in post-translational modification (PTM) are both a consequence of the pathological process and a driving force for disease progression. Therefore, this study intends to characterize the PTM features (acetylation, lactylation, and phosphorylation) of MASH, which will provide a crucial theoretical basis for the diagnosis and development of new targets for MASH. In this study, protein/modification profiles of clinical liver tissues from Normal and MASH were analyzed by LC-MS to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and differentially modified proteins (DMPs) with acetylation, lactylation, and phosphorylation. This study found that acetylation and lactylation occurred mainly in K, whose upstream and downstream amino acids consisted of A, G, K, R, and V. Phosphorylation occurred mainly in S and T, whose upstream and downstream ones consisted of D, E, P, R, and S. Proteomics with ordinary, acetylation, lactylation, and phosphorylation identified 468, 433, 434, and 1,471 DEPs/DMPs, respectively, which mainly regulate cytoskeleton, immunity, proliferation, oxidative stress, inflammatory cascades, various metabolisms (sugars, amino acids, lipids, and carbon). CMKLR1, CYP2E1, GLRX, and XRCC1 were identified as key regulators in the shared DEPs of ordinary proteomics and modification proteomics. Notably, the differences in expression of the four proteins in clinical liver tissues from Normal and MASH were consistent with the proteomics results. In conclusion, this study systematically reveals the global dysregulation of PTM, emphasizing CMKLR1, CYP2E1, GLRX, and XRCC1 as the key proteins/modification sites, and provides new perspectives for targeted intervention in MASH.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cockayne Syndrome (CS) is an autosomal recessive, progressive developmental and neurodegenerative disease. Approximately 30% of cases are caused by mutations in the ERCC8/CSA gene. Patients with CS present with cutaneous photosensitivity, growth failure, shorter life span, and a progressive degeneration of the central nervous system. Loss-of-function mutations in CSA result in deficiencies in the transcription-coupled nucleotide excision repair (TC-NER). Currently, no therapies are available for these patients. Adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated gene therapy offers an opportunity to address this unmet need. We designed a new AAV vector encoding human CSA under a ubiquitous promoter. We tested the therapeutic efficacy of this AAV9-CSA vector by neonatal intracerebroventicular injection in the Csa-/-;Xpa-/- mouse model. Treatment with AAV9-CSA resulted in a significant increase in lifespan, and broad distribution of human CSA in the brain and heart, without evidence of vector-related toxicity. Despite clear therapeutic benefit, we also observed neuroradiological abnormalities, and neuropathologic alterations, including hypomyelination, astrocytosis, and microgliosis, as well as likely life-limiting transcriptomic alterations in liver at endpoint. Nonetheless, the success of these experiments paves the way for the first clinical translation of an AAV gene therapy for CS patients into humans.
Sepsis, characterized by a rapid transition to systemic immune dysregulation and multiorgan failure, poses a formidable clinical challenge. The lack of spatiotemporally stable biomarkers severely impedes early diagnosis and risk stratification. By integrating large-scale transcriptomic profiling with machine learning algorithms, this study identified a robust three-gene diagnostic signature (TLR5, HMGB2, and C19orf59). Single-cell RNA sequencing precisely localized the sepsis-induced specific upregulation of these targets to the myeloid immune compartment, notably monocytes and neutrophils. Crucially, disease severity stratification analysis (based on SOFA scores) revealed that while TLR5 and HMGB2 excel in identifying high-risk sepsis, C19orf59 maintains highly consistent diagnostic efficacy across all clinical severity strata. To definitively validate these findings while rigorously eliminating confounding effects from surgical or environmental stress, strictly time-matched sham-controlled cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) murine models and vehicle-controlled in vitro models were utilized. In vivo results corroborated the persistent in situ upregulation of this signature across vital target organs (lung, heart, liver) and systemic circulation. Parallel in vitro lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated cellular models further characterized their dynamic expression, with HMGB2 exhibiting a distinct biphasic kinetic profile mechanistically characteristic of danger-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs). Finally, independent clinical validation using sepsis patient serum corroborated the translational relevance of these targets. Collectively, this systematic multidimensional evaluation establishes TLR5, HMGB2, and C19orf59 as a highly reliable diagnostic and severity-stratification panel, providing novel molecular insights into the septic pathological cascade.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Cells respond to various stressors by inhibiting global translation and forming stress granules (SGs), cytoplasmic organelles enriched in certain RNA-binding proteins, and RNA. Genotoxic stress also induces SG assembly, but it is unclear how nuclear stress signals are transmitted to trigger cytoplasmic responses. We show that DNA-damaging agents that activate a nuclear poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), PARP1, stall translation and induce SGs. We find that PARP1 activation depletes NAD+, which depletes cellular ATP, activating ATP-sensor AMPK and inhibiting mTORC1 via Raptor phosphorylation. Subsequent hypophosphorylation of 4EBP1 inhibits translation. These effects are suppressed by PAR-metabolism regulators, XRCC1, PARG, and Nudix5, and reversed by NAD+ precursor supplementation. Cells lacking SG scaffolds, G3BP1 and G3BP2, show reduced viability after genotoxic stress, which is rescued by G3BP1 overexpression. These findings link PARP1 activity to translational control and SG formation, which may protect against cell death following DNA damage. These mechanisms provide insight into PARP1- and stress granule-associated diseases, including cancer and neurodegeneration.© 2026 Tereshchenko et al.
Cancer stem-like cells (CSCs) are believed to be a pivotal contributor to therapy failure in various cancers including osteosarcoma. Targeting CSCs is a promising strategy to overcome chemoresistance and improve outcomes in osteosarcoma treatment. Besides the conventionally studied cytoplasmic p70 ribosomal protein S6 kinase (p70S6K), a well-established oncogenic driver, nuclear localized p70S6K is also observed to be related with worse prognosis in various cancers. However, there remains a considerable gap in the studies on the roles of nuclear localized p70S6K in cancer development. Here, we present a novel nuclear function of p70S6K in driving acquisition of CSC properties in osteosarcoma cells by physically interacting with replication protein A3 (RPA3), which is highly expressed in osteosarcoma CSCs subpopulation revealed by single-cell transcriptomics analyses, and modulating its single-strand DNA-binding activity. Importantly, blockage of p70S6K-RPA axis using pharmacological inhibitors remarkably suppresses the tumor growth of osteosarcoma. This study first reveals the impact and underlying mechanism of nuclear localized p70S6K and RPA3 in promoting CSCs maintenance, and highlights the nuclear p70S6K-RPA3 pathway as a promising CSC-based therapeutic target for osteosarcoma.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
N-Nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) is present in food, water, and drugs and is considered a probable human carcinogen by the International Agency for Research on Cancer. The mechanism of action of NDMA involves the generation of carcinogenic methyl lesions such as 3-methyladenine (3MeA) on DNA bases. Alkyladenine DNA Glycosylase (AAG; a.k.a. N-methylpurine DNA glycosylase, MPG) removes 3MeA to initiate Base Excision Repair, leaving an abasic site that is resolved by backbone cleavage, nucleotide insertion, and backbone ligation. The intermediate steps following base removal produce potentially toxic and mutagenic abasic sites and single-strand DNA breaks. Here, we explored differences between males and females regarding downstream DNA damage, toxicity, mutations and cancer arising from 3MeA in the livers of WT, Aag-/-, and Aag-overexpressing (AagTg) mice. We found that males were more susceptible to NDMA-induced mutations (WT and Aag-/-) and cancer (all genotypes). In contrast, AagTg females were more prone to micronucleus induction. As we showed in our prior analyses where data were pooled for males and females, Aag-/- mice were significantly more susceptible to NDMA-induced mutations and cancer, and AagTg mice displayed significantly greater toxicity. Building on these findings, our analyses of sex-related differences show that Aag deficiency and maleness are both susceptibility factors for NDMA-induced hepatic cancer, while Aag overexpression drives toxicity, potentially with a greater effect in females. This study reveals a deeper understanding of the underpinnings for a well-known increased risk of hepatic cancer in men versus women by demonstrating a higher susceptibility of male mice to both mutations and cancer.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Microplastics (MPs) are emerging pollutants whose fate after removal from wastewater remains uncertain. Constructed wetlands (CWs), as nature-based solutions with high retention of MPs, provide a suitable context to assess MP fate through extended interactions with sediments, vegetation, and microbial communities. This study evaluated MP distribution and aging in two sequential horizontal subsurface flow CWs (secondary wastewater treatment CW1 and sludge treatment CW2) in a residential area (Spain), in operation since 2014. Fibers were identified as the predominant type across depth profiles, with polymer-type abundance linked to urban wastewater inflows. Vertical patterns revealed denser polymers and smaller MPs accumulating in deeper layers, while lighter or later-introduced particles remained near the surface. MP distribution varied with treatment configuration, showing peak concentrations either in the top 5 cm at the CW1 inlet zone (566 MP/g) or in the deepest layer at the CW2 (464 MP/g). An exploratory phenomenological MP balance model reproduced the observed 97% removal efficiency by accounting for substrate retention and estimating accumulation and loss terms. A significant decrease in MP abundance from the inlet to the center confirmed efficient retention, with vegetation roots exhibiting MP levels equivalent to ∼34%-150% of the local substrate concentrations. Evidence of physical deterioration and spectra-detected chemical alterations (oxidation, hydrolysis) reflects long-term environmental aging and suggests potential pathways for polymer degradation. These findings support the hypothesis that CW conditions may favor MP aging, consistent with studies reporting microbiota-driven polymer degradation in similar natural environments. Further research should employ complementary techniques to confirm polymer aging mechanisms and optimize microbiota-based CWs to enhance MP removal.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is characterized by persistent synovial inflammation in which fibroblast-like synoviocytes (RA-FLS) and B cells interact within a potentially genotoxic microenvironment. This study investigates how naive B cells respond to cytotoxic stress when supported by RA-FLS in a co-culture model, using viability assays, time resolved γ-H2AX MFI, RT-qPCR of DNA damage response and differentiation genes, and flow cytometric analysis of subsets and surface markers. Naive B cells exhibited greater loss of viability than RA-FLS, and time-resolved γ-H2AX MFI showed an earlier signal peak and decline in naive B cells versus prolonged retention in RA-FLS (0-24h post-treatment); these reflect overall damage-response dynamics rather than direct DSB repair. Importantly, γ-H2AX levels indicate DNA damage but do not directly quantify DNA break repair. Transcriptional profiling showed selective induction of ATM, APEX1, RAD50, BAX, and BCL6 following treatment, consistent with engagement of a focused DNA damage response program. Prolonged co-culture was associated with the expansion of B cell enriched compartments derived from naïve B cells, and with increased expression of stromal markers CD90 and podoplanin on both B cells and RA-FLS, while IL-10 secretion was reduced under cytotoxic conditions. Together, these findings define differential stress responses and phenotypic adaptations of B cells and RA-FLS within an inflammatory co-culture system and suggest that genotoxic stress may contribute to remodeling of immune-stromal interactions in the rheumatoid synovium.Copyright © 2026 Bruci, Lowin, Fritz, Wolf and Pongratz.
Glioma is the most common malignant tumor of the central nervous system, with high malignancy and poor prognosis, necessitating the development of novel targeted therapies. DNA polymerase delta catalytic subunit 1 (POLD1) is implicated in multiple cancers, but its role in glioma remains unclear. Plant-derived extracellular vesicles (PDEVs) have emerged as biocompatible, targetable nanocarriers with promising applications in cancer therapy.This study aims to elucidate the oncogenic function of POLD1 in glioma and develop a PDEVs -based delivery system for targeted therapy, with the goal of improving the current therapeutic landscape for glioma.POLD1 expression and prognostic significance were analyzed using clinical samples and databases. In vitro, CCK-8, Transwell, and flow cytometry assays evaluated the impact of POLD1 knockdown on glioma cell proliferation, invasion, migration, cell cycle, and apoptosis. In vivo tumorigenesis and survival were assessed in mouse models. Sweet potato-derived nano-vesicles (SPDELNVs) were isolated and characterized. An engineered A2-SPDELNVs-siPOLD1 system was developed via surface modification and siRNA loading, and its targeting efficiency and therapeutic efficacy were evaluated both in vitro and in vivo.POLD1 was upregulated in glioma tissues and correlated with poor prognosis. Its knockdown suppressed proliferation, invasion, and migration, induced cell cycle arrest, and promoted apoptosis in vitro. In vivo, POLD1 targeting inhibited tumor growth and prolonged survival. SPDELNVs showed intrinsic anti-glioma activity and efficient cellular uptake. The engineered A2-SPDELNVs-siPOLD1 effectively delivered siRNA, silenced POLD1, and significantly inhibited tumor progression both in vitro and in vivo, with enhanced survival.Our findings uncover the oncogenic role of POLD1 in glioma and validate it as a promising therapeutic target. Furthermore, we establish a novel, plant-based A2-SPDELNVs-siPOLD1 delivery platform with effective BBB penetration and tumor targeting, offering a promising strategy for the treatment of glioma.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Aphids are major agricultural pests that cause severe crop damage. While chemical pesticides remain the dominant control strategy, their associated environmental contamination and resistance issues necessitate the development of eco-friendly biopesticides. This study employed network pharmacology and structural biology to elucidate the molecular mechanism by which Macrolactin A protects against aphids, with validation through molecular docking, 100-ns molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, and enzymatic assays. Target prediction identified five aphid proteins as potential targets of Macrolactin A: somatostatin receptor 5 (J9JQH0), allatostatin-A receptor (J9K6V2), cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (J9JTH4), histone deacetylase Rpd3 (J9JSB6), and DNA-(apurinic or apyrimidinic) site lyase APEX-1 (J9K3U4). Molecular docking and MD simulations confirmed stable binding to all five targets, with binding free energies ranging from -43.18 to -14.12 kcal/mol. Enzymatic assays showed that APEX-1 activity was significantly suppressed in Rhopalosiphum padi and Hyalopterus amygdali after 24 h and 48 h exposure to 300 mg/L and 500 mg/L Macrolactin A. Concurrent bioassays demonstrated strong aphicidal efficacy against R. padi, with corrected mortalities reaching 76.00% and 86.67% at 48 h, respectively. Acute toxicity tests on the silkworm (Bombyx mori) and common carp (Cyprinus carpio) revealed low non-target toxicity (96-h LC50 > 500 mg/L). These findings demonstrate that network-pharmacology-based approaches can improve the accuracy of key target prediction in aphids, and provide an experimental foundation for developing Macrolactin A as an efficient and environmentally friendly microbial aphicide.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Mandibular hypoplasia, deafness, progeroid features, and lipodystrophy (MDPL) syndrome is a rare autosomal dominant disorder caused by pathogenic variants in the POLD1 gene and characterized by progressive lipodystrophy and severe metabolic complications. We report an eight-year-old Saudi male presenting with atypical, insulin-resistant diabetes, acanthosis nigricans, and preserved C-peptide levels, raising suspicion for a syndromic form of diabetes. Genetic testing revealed a heterozygous variant of uncertain significance (VUS) in POLD1. Notably, the patient lacked classical features of MDPL, including overt lipodystrophy, mandibular hypoplasia, and hearing loss, posing a diagnostic challenge. Although the patient's phenotype showed partial overlap with reported POLD1-related disorders, the available evidence was insufficient to establish a definitive molecular diagnosis. Early recognition of atypical presentations of severe insulin resistance is crucial for appropriate evaluation, surveillance, and genetic counseling. Further functional studies and long-term follow-up are required to clarify the pathogenicity of the identified variant and its clinical implications.Copyright © 2026, Alzelaye et al.
Synthesizing human motion from textual descriptions is essential for immersive digital applications, yet existing methods face a persistent trade-off between semantic fidelity and physical realism. Large language model (LLM)-based approaches can interpret diverse open-vocabulary instructions and compose high-level action plans, but they often generate motions that violate physical constraints. Physics-aware models improve realism through simulation or control, but they struggle with semantic complexity, fine-grained instructions, and novel concepts. To address this gap, we propose In-Context Model Predictive Generation (ICMPG), a framework that integrates language-model planning with inference-time physical feedback. ICMPG reformulates motion synthesis as a Model Predictive Control (MPC)-like process with two modules. The Context-Aware Motion Generation (CAMG) module uses an LLM as a planner to decompose textual commands and generate candidate motion sequences from motion tokens. The Model Predictive Generation (MPG) module evaluates these candidates through physical simulation and semantic alignment, estimates a composite reward, and selects the best sequence to guide subsequent generation steps. Unlike open-loop generation, this closed-loop refinement enables ICMPG to adapt motions to both the input semantics and the simulated physical environment without task-specific policy retraining. Extensive experiments across standard and zero-shot open-vocabulary settings show that ICMPG generalizes robustly to diverse commands and produces motions that are more physically plausible and semantically faithful than representative baselines on the evaluated benchmarks. The framework bridges semantic interpretation and physical simulation while remaining flexible enough to incorporate different LLM backbones, enabling more versatile and controllable text-driven motion synthesis.
Myocardial ischemia reperfusion injury (MIRI) is a primary cause of poor prognosis in patients with myocardial infarction, with ferroptosis being a significant form of cell death in this process. Apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease 1 (APEX1) is a multifunctional protein involved in DNA repair and redox activation of transcription factors and has shown therapeutic potential in ischemic heart disease. This study aims to investigate whether APEX1 protects against MIRI by inhibiting ferroptosis and to explore the underlying mechanisms.A rat model of myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) and a H9c2 cell model of hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) were established. APEX1 protein levels were assessed in both models. The protective effects of APEX1 against ferroptosis were evaluated by measuring ferroptosis-associated proteins, Fe²⁺ levels, and lipid peroxidation markers. To explore the mechanistic pathway, the Nrf2 inhibitor ML385 was employed to examine whether the protective effects of APEX1 were mediated through the Nrf2/GPX4 signaling axis.APEX1 protein levels were significantly reduced in both the rat I/R model and the H9c2 cell H/R model. APEX1 mitigated MIRI-induced ferroptosis through exogenous pathways, including inhibition of iron transporters TfR1 and FTH1, and endogenous pathways, such as GPX4 activity. Inhibition of Nrf2 using ML385 partially reversed the protective effects of APEX1 against ferroptosis and reduced GPX4 expression, indicating the involvement of the Nrf2/GPX4 signaling pathway.This study demonstrates that APEX1 protects against MIRI by inhibiting ferroptosis through activation of the Nrf2/GPX4 signaling pathway. These findings identify APEX1 as a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of MIRI.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Chromosomal rearrangements that lead to the formation of oncogenic gene fusions, such as EML4-ALK, are thought to arise from incorrect repair of double-strand breaks in DNA. However, the mechanisms and factors driving rearrangement formation remain poorly understood, and analysis of these processes is limited by detection methods that are labor-intensive, low-throughput, and not readily quantitative at single-cell resolution. Here, we developed a genetically encoded ALK reporter based on A549 lung adenocarcinoma cells, created by inserting an ALK-P2A-mCherry cassette into the endogenous ALK locus, so that induced EML4-ALK fusion activated mCherry fluorescence. Reporter activation yielded a readily quantifiable mCherry-positive subpopulation that could be measured and enriched by flow cytometry and correlated with EML4-ALK levels. Using this platform, we combined CRISPR-mediated rearrangement induction with knockdown of DNA repair factors using RNA interference. Of the factors involved in base excision repair, homologous recombination-related pathways and canonical non-homologous end joining, knockdown of the APEX1 gene encoding apurinic endonuclease 1 (APE1) selectively increased EML4-ALK levels both in the reporter cell line and in parental A549 cells. Together, this work provides a sensitive, single-cell A549-based ALK reporter platform and a framework for future studies aimed at identifying cellular and environmental factors that modulate oncogenic EML4-ALK rearrangement formation.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42562831 is a review article
Near-infrared (NIR) emitters with chiroptical properties are a novel class of materials with significant promise for chiral sensing and optoelectronic applications. Chiral nanoparticles, in particular, offer distinct advantages over molecular chiral agents. However, their practical applications remain significantly hindered due to challenges to precisely control nanoparticle chirality and reduce heterogeneity. Here, we investigate one-photon (1P) and two-photon (2P) chiroptical properties of DNA-stabilized silver nanoclusters (DNA-AgN) as atomically defined, water-soluble chiral nanoprobes. We perform a detailed analysis of 1P and 2P circular dichroism (1P-CD and 2P-CD, respectively) and circularly polarized luminescence (CPL) of (DNA)2[Ag16Cl2]8+ , a NIR emissive DNA-AgN with solved crystal structure, over a broad wavelength range. We observe that (DNA)2[Ag16Cl2]8+ exhibits 2P-CD two orders of magnitude higher than 1P anisotropy factor, with additional CD bands in the NIR range. Interestingly, (DNA)2[Ag16Cl2]8+ also presents CPL with high anisotropy factors, upon both 1P and 2P excitation, with significant 2P CPL brightness. These findings demonstrate that DNA-AgN exhibits significant 1P- and 2P- excited chiroptical properties, highlighting their potential for chiral sensing and bioimaging at NIR wavelengths in the tissue transparency window.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Optical Materials published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
The potential functional Single Nucleotide Polymorphism (SNPs) of DNA Damage Response (DDR)-related genes may influence AML aggressiveness and clinical outcomes through regulating genomic stability. However, systematic evaluation of functionally relevant SNPs across the entire DDR cascade in AML remains limited. In our study, significant associations were identified across multiple DDR modules. In the damage sensing module, MRE11 rs2155209 TC/CC genotypes were protective against hyperleukocytosis and associated with longer OS, while NBS1 rs1805794 CG/GG genotypes increased hyperleukocytosis risk. In the signal transduction module, CHEK1 rs521102 AA genotype was a risk factor for thrombocytopenia but unexpectedly associated with prolonged OS; CHEK2 rs738722 TT genotype increased hyperleukocytosis risk; RAD17 rs1045051 GT/GG genotype conferred a higher relapse risk; and BRCA1 rs1799949 GA/AA genotype as a protective factor for high BM blast percentage. In the DNA repair module, LIG3 rs3744356 TT genotypes predicted higher WBC counts and lower complete remission rate. Both LIG3 rs3744356 TT genotype and MGMT rs2296675 GA genotype were associated with shorter OS (HR = 1.719, 95% CI = 1.082 -2.741, p = 0.022; HR = 1.511, 95% CI = 1.046 - 2.182, p = 0.028). SNPs in effector genes TP53 and CDKN1A showed no significant associations. In summary, SNPs across the DDR pathway-particularly in damage sensing, signal transduction, and DNA repair modules-are significantly associated with AML clinical features, treatment response, and survival. Our findings provide a foundation for developing DDR-based polygenic risk models and support the potential integration of germline SNP profiling into precision medicine strategies for AML.© The author(s).
Glioblastoma (GBM), the deadliest primary brain malignancy, resists treatment because of the blood‒brain barrier (BBB) and intrinsic resistance mechanisms. Fluorescein (FL), a clinically approved fluorophore, shows promise as a sonosensitizer for sonodynamic therapy (SDT), but faces challenges in tumor delivery and incomplete mechanistic understanding beyond ROS-mediated damage. We developed a bioinspired platelet-based delivery platform exploiting the natural tumor-homing properties of platelets for targeted FL delivery. Platelets were loaded with fluorescein diacetate (FDA), a lipophilic prodrug that is converted intracellularly to active FL, combined with probenecid to inhibit MRP1-mediated efflux, generating the ultrasound-responsive FL@plt. In vitro, FL demonstrated sonocytotoxicity; upon low-intensity ultrasound, FL@plt rapidly released FL into GBM cells, producing significant cytotoxicity enhanced by probenecid-mediated retention. In subcutaneous and orthotopic mouse models, intravenous FL@plt with probenecid and sequential ultrasound achieved extensive tumor FL accumulation, massive necrosis, significant growth inhibition, and prolonged survival. Mechanistically, FL-SDT induces DNA damage while promoting HIF-1α degradation via the ubiquitin‒proteasome and autophagy‒lysosome pathways, thus suppressing downstream DNA repair enzymes (SMUG1 and LIG4). This dual mechanism combines direct genotoxicity with impaired DNA repair capacity, underlying the potent anti-GBM efficacy. Our platelet-based FL delivery represents a practical, safe, translational therapy for overcoming BBB limitations by disabling HIF-1α-regulated DNA repair.
Background: Minimal change disease (MCD) is a leading cause of childhood nephrotic syndrome. Endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS) and autophagy are implicated in its pathogenesis, but the precise mechanisms remain unclear. This study aimed to identify ERS and autophagy-related key genes (ERS-RGs and ARGs) in MCD using bioinformatic and experimental approaches. Methods: Transcriptomic data from GSE216841 and GSE246206 were analyzed. ERS-RGs and ARGs were obtained from prior literature. Candidate genes were selected by integrating weighted gene coexpression network analysis and differential expression analysis. Feature genes were identified via protein-protein interaction network analysis and machine learning (Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator and Boruta). Key genes were validated by expression analysis and receiver operating characteristic evaluation. A multilayer perceptron (MLP) model was constructed, and regulatory networks, immune infiltration, and chemical compound prediction were analyzed. The expression levels of the identified key genes were preliminarily assessed in peripheral blood samples using reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). Results:LIG4 and ZRANB3 were identified as key genes, both significantly downregulated in the MCD group, and the gene-based MLP model effectively predicted MCD probability. Overall, 13 significantly different immune cell types (e.g., CD56+ natural killer and activated dendritic cells) were detected. Regulatory networks (transcription factor-messenger RNA (mRNA) and long non-coding RNA-microRNA-mRNA) and 8 common chemical compounds (e.g., bisphenol A, acetaminophen) targeting these genes were predicted. Notably, peripheral blood RT-qPCR analysis revealed significant LIG4 and ZRANB3 downregulation, suggesting a systemic expression signature. Conclusions:LIG4 and ZRANB3 are key genes associated with ERS and autophagy in MCD, providing insights for diagnosis and targeted therapy.
In this study, we modeled gene expression profile data from Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) and healthy cases. At first, the GEO-GSE9476 dataset was processed, and a total of 341 genes were identified as differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in patients, and 599 DEGs in healthy individuals. Gene Ontology and pathway analysis on DEGs led to the identification of 5 Transcription Factors for patients and 3 for healthy cases. Analysis of the respective metabolic pathways revealed a common region in the metabolic pathway between AML and Tuberculosis (TB) that confirmed the validity of our procedure due to the consistency with similar reports. Upon PPI network analysis, Hub genes and three modules containing 41 up-regulated and down-regulated genes in AML patients were identified. Survival analysis on these genes results in reducing the number of identified effective genes into 3 upregulated (ITGAM, ITGAL and CD163) and 5 downregulated genes (MCM2, MCM3, RFC4, RFC5 and FEN1). Finally, drug sensitivity analysis was performed on these genes demonstrating complexity in drug-resistance due to the pattern of gene expression. This knowledge could potentially enable personalized treatment approaches based on individual patient responses due to the epigenetics and life style which affect gene expression pattern.Copyright: © 2026 Aghajan et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Mammalian telomeric DNA comprises long tracts of tandem TTAGGG repeats. The same repeats are also found at internal chromosomal regions called interstitial telomeric sequences (ITSs). Telomeres are transcribed into UUAGGG-containing transcripts, named TERRA, which serve multiple functions in maintaining telomere integrity. Complementary RNAs containing C-rich telomeric repeats, named ARIA, have also been identified in yeast mutants and mammalian cells with dysfunctional telomeres. The molecular features and functions of ARIA remain understudied, mainly due to its low abundance and the lack of suitable cellular systems. Here, we show that Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells produce abundant TERRA and ARIA transcripts, predominantly originating from ITSs. Both RNAs are extensively polyadenylated, exhibit relatively short half-lives and form large cellular foci. We also show that ARIA depletion leads to exposure of single-stranded (ss) DNA at ITSs and that ssDNA exposure increases when ITS DNA is damaged. SsDNA formation does not strictly require the DNA damage signaling kinases ATM and ATR, nor the exonucleases DNA2 and EXO1; however, ATM prevents excessive ssDNA accumulation when ARIA function is inhibited. These findings establish CHO cells as a powerful model to dissect telomeric RNA functions and reveal ARIA as a key regulator of telomeric repeat DNA integrity.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Although the acute phase of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic has subsided, viral persistence and variant evolution continue to challenge existing antiviral strategies. Here, we investigated an intranasal nanomedicine formulation comprising flap-endonuclease 1 (FEN1) and a panel of hairpin-structured DNA probes (hpDNAs), which we designed to concurrently target the highly conserved nucleocapsid RNA and host-derived Cathepsin L mRNA. This dual-targeting approach aims to interfere with both viral genetic integrity and the host-dependent entry pathway. Replacing conventional siRNA/sgRNA with stable, economical hpDNAs may improve the practicality of nucleic acid-based antivirals. Additionally, the co-administration of the anti-inflammatory agent baicalein was examined to assess its potential to improve the nanomedicine's cellular biodistribution. Our portable intranasal drop, a multi-target treatment co-administered with baicalein, elicited a partial reduction in the viral load in mice infected with SARS-CoV-2, suggesting that this multi-target strategy may offer an alternative antiviral modality for further development.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42500926
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42493676
Feed efficiency (FE) is recognized as a vital component of sustainable dairy production, with residual feed intake (RFI) serving as a key metabolic indicator of FE independent of production levels. However, the genetic improvement of this complex trait is limited by the inability of conventional genomic Best Linear Unbiased Prediction (gBLUP) model to capture complex, non-linear genetic architectures and epistatic interactions. To address these limitations, this study aims to compare the predictive performance of machine learning (ML) approaches, specifically Random Forest (RF) and Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP) models, against standard gBLUP using genomic data from 220 UK Holstein cows genotyped with the BovineSNP50 v3 BeadChip with 47,446 quality-controlled single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), phenotyped for RFI from 1996-2023. SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) were applied to interpret SNP feature importance from the ML models, and an ensemble framework was implemented to leverage the complementary strengths of RF and MLP.While the gBLUP model exhibited moderate predictive performance, the RF model demonstrated greater stability and accuracy compared to gBLUP, and the MLP showed higher variance across random states. The ensemble framework achieved the highest coefficient of determination (R2 = 0.39) and lowest root mean squared error (RMSE = 0.086). SHAP interpretability analysis revealed distinct genomic architectures between the models. The RF model prioritized genes regulating mitochondrial oxidation and immune surveillance, including SKINT1 and PPARGC1A, whereas the MLP model identified genes involved in lipid metabolism and fat storage, including APCDD1 and ADIPOR1. A convergence of biological signals was observed between the models, with nine common SNPs and 32 consensus genes identified, including ACOD1, CNTNAP2, and core spliceosomal snRNAs.These results suggest that the genetic architecture of RFI may be explored by ML methods as they offer flexibility in mapping non-additive genetic effects. The reliability of genomic predictions for complex traits was enhanced when complementary computational strategies were leveraged in an ensemble framework, providing a focused set of candidate genes for future experimental validation. Whilst exploratory gene networks require validation in larger cohorts, the ensemble ML framework presented here offers an interpretable approach for dissecting the genetic architecture of complex production traits in livestock.© 2026. Crown.
Conventional removable partial dentures (RPDs) involve a process that is often susceptible to errors and demands a significant investment of time. The introduction of computer-aided design and computer-aided manufacturing (CAD/CAM) technology and materials witnessed significant advancements in recent years to produce accurate removable partial dentures. This study evaluated the retention and wear of PolyEtherKetoneKetone (PEKK) compared to Cobalt-Chromium (CoCr) in digitally fabricated double crown removable partial dentures for lower Kennedy Class I cases.The study was performed on 3D digital models of mandibular Kennedy Class I with prepared premolars bilaterally. The double crown RPDs were designed and fabricated digitally to get 14 copies of RPDs. Two groups were defined (n = 7); the first group were milled from Co-Cr discs, and the other's from PEKK blanks. Initial retention was measured using a universal testing machine. RPDs were then subjected to dynamic loading in a chewing simulator over 100,000 cycles followed by 540 manual insertion and removal cycles and were remounted on the testing machine to measure final retention simulating six months. Wear was assessed using Geomagic Control X software, where negative deviations highlighted areas of degradation. Data was collected and analyzed for statistical analysis. Two Sample t-test was used to compare between the two groups and Paired t test to study the changes within each group. The significance level was set at P ≤ 0.05.PEKK group showed a statistically significantly higher final retentive values after 6 months (11.6 N) than Co-Cr (2 N). Moreover, results showed higher retention loss in Co-Cr group (16.9 N) compared to PEKK (3.7 N). Additionally, wear assessment of primary copings indicated a higher deviation in the Co-Cr group (-0.25 mm) compared to PEKK (-0.096 mm), with a notable correlation (0.651, P-value = 0.011) between retention loss and wear.Within the limitation of this study, it could be concluded that PEKK provided digitally fabricated double crown RPDs with higher retention values and less wear than Co-Cr after simulation of 6 months of RPD use.© 2026. The Author(s).
Adults with major lower limb amputation (LLA) due to dysvascular etiology often experience diverse health outcomes. However, the absence of standardized outcome reporting limits the ability to synthesize evidence, evaluate care models, and develop consistent clinical pathways. This review updates a systematic review on outcome measures and indicators reported in this population.A systematic review update was conducted across six databases (MEDLINE, EMBASE, EBM Reviews, PsycINFO, Web of Science, and CINAHL) from 20 April 2017 to 1 December 2022. All study designs were eligible; however, the articles needed to report outcome measures and indicators on at least 50% of the adult population with major dysvascular LLAs. The extracted outcome measures and indicators were organized according to Dodd's framework and then reclassified alongside those reported in the study by Ambler and colleagues. The pilot phase of data extraction was carried out independently by multiple reviewers, after which a single reviewer completed the data extraction.Of the 12,557 articles, 160 studies reporting data on 228,116 individuals with major dysvascular LLA met the inclusion criteria. Combining these with the 440 studies from the previous review, 2,466 outcome measures and indicators were categorized in five core areas: life impact (25.7%), physiological/clinical (23.4%), death (18.7%), resource use (17.6%), and adverse events (14.6%). In terms of the outcome domains, mortality/survival was the most commonly reported domain, followed by physical functioning (e.g. prosthesis fit, use), skin (e.g., stump wound healing), nervous system outcomes (e.g., residual limb pain), need for further interventions (e.g., prescription of medications), hospital outcomes (e.g., duration of stay, discharge), and adverse events.This study builds on a previous review by identifying and categorizing outcome measures and indicators in adults with major dysvascular LLA, highlighting inconsistencies in outcome reporting across studies. The absence of a standardized set of outcome measures and indicators limits the ability to conduct meta-analyses or systematic reviews, evaluate the effectiveness of care models, and establish clinical pathways. Developing a core outcome set tailored to the needs of individuals with dysvascular LLA could help address these challenges by promoting consistency in outcome reporting and enabling meaningful comparisons across studies. Ultimately, this could contribute to improving the quality, efficiency, and person-centeredness of care.PROSPERO (CRD42023388570).© 2026. The Author(s).
The paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus is a key autonomic and cardiovascular regulatory center that contributes to neuroinflammation-driven sympathetic excitation in heart failure. To define the cellular and transcriptional mechanisms underlying inflammatory signaling during heart failure progression, we performed single-nucleus RNA sequencing of the PVN in rats 2 weeks after myocardial infarction (MI).PVN tissues were collected 2 weeks post MI for single-nucleus RNA sequencing analysis. Sequencing data were processed through alignment, dimensionality reduction, clustering, and marker-gene identification to define cell populations and gene expression profiles. Gene Set Variation Analysis and transcriptional regulatory network analyses were performed to identify altered signaling pathways and key transcription factors.A total of 16 341 nuclei were classified into 5 major cell types: neurons, oligodendrocytes, astrocytes, oligodendrocyte progenitor cells, and microglia. Functional analyses identified microglia as the primary mediators of inflammatory responses in the PVN. Gene Set Variation Analysis revealed substantial pathway alterations across cell types, with microglia exhibiting marked activation of immune-related and cytokine-producing pathways in MI rats. Moreover, IRF5 (interferon regulatory factor 5) was identified as a master transcriptional regulator associated with inflammatory activation and was significantly upregulated in PVN microglia after MI. Increased IRF5 expression in PVN microglia was confirmed by immunofluorescence.Single-nucleus RNA sequencing identified distinct cell-specific gene signatures, regulatory networks, and signaling pathways in the PVN during heart failure, with microglial IRF5 emerging as a central regulator of immune activation and inflammatory processes. Activated IRF5 promotes microglial activation and neuroinflammation, thereby enhancing PVN neuronal activity and driving sympathetic and neurohumoral dysregulation in rats with MI. Targeting IRF5 and its downstream pathways may therefore provide new insights into the central inflammatory mechanisms contributing to cardiac dysfunction during heart failure progression.
Maternal autoimmune diseases (ADs) are associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes, yet their specific impact on offspring structural congenital heart disease (CHD) remains inconclusive. This study aimed to evaluate the risk of structural CHD in children born to mothers with various ADs using a nationwide population-based database.We conducted a nationwide retrospective cohort study using the Maternal and Child Health Database in Taiwan (2004-2019), a comprehensive data set linking the National Health Insurance Research Database with birth registries. We identified 4708 live births from mothers with ADs and matched them 1:2 with 9416 control births. Cox proportional hazards models were used to estimate adjusted hazard ratios (aHRs) for structural CHD, adjusting for maternal age, comorbidities, and pregnancy-related factors.Offspring of mothers with ADs had a significantly higher risk of CHD compared with the control group (aHR, 1.51 [95% CI, 1.24-1.85]). Specific maternal ADs significantly associated with offspring CHD included systemic lupus erythematosus (aHR, 2.01 [95% CI, 1.55-2.60]) and Sjögren syndrome (aHR, 1.47 [95% CI, 1.10-1.96]).Maternal ADs are independent risk factors for offspring structural CHD. These findings underscore the importance of multidisciplinary counseling and specialized fetal echocardiographic screening for pregnant women with ADs to ensure early detection and management of potential cardiac defects in their offspring.URL: https://www.clinicaltrials.gov; Unique identifier: CS19009.
There is limited real-world evidence on the diagnosis, treatment, and outcomes of refractory status epilepticus (RSE) in Latin America. This study describes the clinical characteristics, management, and outcomes of RSE in a tertiary neurological intensive care unit (NICU) in Mexico. We conducted a retrospective cohort study of adults (≥ 18 years) with RSE admitted from 2010 to 2022. All patients were initially analyzed as a single cohort; a prespecified secondary analysis stratified patients by preexisting epilepsy and identified those with new-onset RSE (NORSE). Patients were identified via electronic medical records and met the International League Against Epilepsy (ILAE) definition. Clinical, imaging, laboratory, and EEG data were collected. Outcomes included seizure cessation, functional status at NICU discharge (mRS), and prognostic scores (STESS and END-IT). Statistical analysis involved descriptive measures, chi-square/Fisher's exact tests, t-test or Mann-Whitney U test, and multinomial logistic regression. Significance was set at p < 0.05. We analyzed 102 patients with RSE; 52.9% were women, median age 34 (26-44) years. Preexisting epilepsy was present in 70.6%, and 29.4% had NORSE. Most common etiologies were infections (23.5%), structural/vascular (22.5%), and treatment-related (16.7%). EEG most commonly showed slowing; interictal epileptiform discharges appeared in 27.7%. Treatment was heterogeneous; 82.4% required third-line therapy. Median hospitalization was 21.5 days, with mechanical ventilation averaging 8 days. Resolution occurred in 87.3%. One patient underwent surgery, without complications. Preexisting epilepsy was significantly associated with prior SE (p = 0.011), resolution (p = 0.001), unfavorable mRS (p = 0.046), and higher STESS (p = 0.001) and END-IT (p = 0.021) scores. END-IT also correlated with third-line treatment (p < 0.001). This study offers real-world insights into RSE in a resource-limited setting, highlighting preventable causes, management complexity, and high care demands. Despite limitations, favorable outcomes are often achievable.© 2026. Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature and Neurocritical Care Society.
Selecting an optimal C-arm working view is critical in endovascular coiling of intracranial aneurysms, influencing procedural safety and efficiency. Current practice relies on operator experience and manual angulation adjustments, leading to inter-operator variability and increased radiation exposure. In this preliminary feasibility study, we investigate whether a generative adversarial framework can learn to predict clinically meaningful C-arm viewing directions from 3D rotational angiography (3DRA) data.We developed a generator-discriminator framework in which the generator predicts a 3D unit view vector from segmented vascular and aneurysm volumes, and the discriminator evaluates differentiable 2D projections along the predicted view. Three projection strategies (soft first-hit ray casting, digitally reconstructed radiographs (DRR), and label-aware maximum-intensity projections with soft label encoding (MIP-OR)) were tested with two generator architectures (CNN and U-Net). Performance was assessed on a held-out test set using absolute dot product (ADP) error between predicted and expert-annotated views, complemented by qualitative assessment from two experienced interventional neuroradiologists.Experiments on a preliminary cohort of 18 patients demonstrate that the CNN generator combined with MIP-OR projections achieves the lowest mean ADP error and high expert scores, demonstrating improved alignment with clinically acceptable working views. Training analysis indicated that low ADP values alone do not guarantee clinical usability, highlighting the need for combined geometric and expert-based evaluation.Adversarial learning with anatomically informed projections is a promising approach for automated C-arm view prediction. Future work will integrate procedural ground-truth views, larger datasets, and additional endovascular procedures to evaluate reliability and generalizability.© 2026. The Author(s).
Aim To evaluate three clinical techniques (current practice, Silhouette with a flow rate protocol, and eAdvantage) for inhalation sedation.Methods This study was conducted at the Eastman Dental Hospital (London, UK) using quality improvement methodology. The three clinical techniques were used over a six-week period. Data were collected on the volume of nitrous oxide (N2O) gas used per patient, success rate, as well as patient and staff feedback.Results Ninety-eight episodes of inhalation sedation were observed during the pilot period. Both Silhouette and eAdvantage techniques demonstrated impressive reductions in the volume of N2O used per patient (58% and 70%, respectively) when compared to current practice. The success rate was 97% for current practice and eAdvantage, and 86% for Silhouette.Conclusion Current practice for inhalation sedation relies on a flow rate that is set by the clinical team, with the patient breathing from a reservoir of gas. This technique is potentially over-delivering gas, and new techniques and equipment that reduce or eliminate this free-flow rate show significant environmental benefits.© 2026. The Author(s).
Aim of this research was to develop and validate a time-efficient, ecologically valid self-report questionnaire measuring executive functions in healthy adults, grounded in the unity/diversity framework of Miyake (i.e., inhibition, updating, shifting). Across a pre-study and three main studies (Ntotal = 1.574), an initial 55-item pool was refined to a final 15-item set. Exploratory and confirmatory factor analyses (Studies 1-3) revealed, while the data did not support the expected three-factor model, a stable five-factor structure with the factors flexibility, focusing, inhibition, adaptation, and weighing up. The subscales demonstrated acceptable internal consistencies (Studies 1-3) and test-retest reliability over three weeks (Study 3). Construct validity was supported by significant correlations with established measures of self-regulation abilities (Studies 1-3). Criterion validity was shown by associations with life satisfaction and affective well-being (Study 3). Although limited by a predominantly young, highly educated sample, the questionnaire provides a reliable and valid open-access tool for examining the role of executive functions in health behavior, academic achievement or social functioning.© 2026. The Author(s).
Adults with disabilities have long faced lower dental utilization and greater cost-related barriers than adults without disabilities, yet the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on these disparities among working-age adults has not been examined at the population level.To examine whether disparities in dental care use and cost-related access barriers between working-age adults with and without disabilities changed during the COVID-19 pandemic.We analyzed nationally representative data from the 2019, 2020, 2022, and 2023 National Health Interview Surveys (adults aged 18-64). Disability was defined using the Washington Group Short Set. Outcomes were three past-12-month measures: dental visit (exam or cleaning) and cost-related delayed and forgone dental care. Stratified weighted logistic regressions estimated average marginal effects relative to 2019, adjusting for demographic and socioeconomic factors.Among adults without disabilities, dental visits remained below 2019 levels in 2020, 2022, and 2023. Among adults with disabilities, dental visits declined in 2020 (-5.3 percentage points [pp]; 95% CI, -9.6 to -1.0) and 2022 (-4.8 pp; 95% CI, -9.2 to -0.5) but recovered by 2023; delayed care fell in 2022 (-4.6 pp; 95% CI, -8.4 to -0.9). Cost-related delayed and forgone care remained substantially higher among adults with disabilities throughout.COVID-19 was associated with larger short-term reductions in dental utilization among working-age adults with disabilities, but their utilization recovered by 2023 while disparities in cost-related unmet dental care persisted. Stabilizing dental care coverage and provider capacity, while protecting access during future public health emergencies, may help reduce these gaps.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Sociometer theory proposes that self-esteem reflects a global index of perceived relational value, whereas experiences of acceptance and rejection may be integrated more proximally through specific self-evaluation. Yet it remains unclear how perceived relational states themselves are associated with the neural processing of domain-specific self-evaluation. The present study focused on morality and competence-two central domains of self-evaluation that may be differentially linked to social acceptance and rejection. We examined the neural correlates of domain-specific self-evaluation in relation to perceived relational states in 45 Japanese adults (19 males). Participants assessed the extent to which trait adjectives described themselves or a celebrity during fMRI scanning and completed questionnaires assessing their sense of acceptance and sense of rejection. Results showed that sense of acceptance was negatively associated with medial prefrontal cortex activity during general self-evaluation and positively associated with putamen activation during evaluation of positive (vs. negative) self-traits. Sense of rejection was positively associated with temporal pole activation during competence (vs. moral) self-evaluation. No significant neural associations were observed for self-esteem. These findings suggest that perceived acceptance and rejection are associated with domain-general and domain-specific neural processes during self-evaluation. These findings imply that perceived relational states may be reflected in neural processes through which social information is incorporated into self-related processing.© 2026. The Author(s).
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is the most commonly used technique for non-invasive exploration of human cognition and neuroscience. Conventional T2*-weighted single-echo resting-state fMRI (SE-rfMRI) is limited by signal loss in regions prone to susceptibility artifacts and inseparable confounding from non-neuronal baseline (i.e., initial signal intensity S0) fluctuations. While multi-echo optimally combined rfMRI (ME-OC) effectively mitigates signal loss, confounding from S0 fluctuations remains unaddressed. Here, we leverage quantitative T2* fluctuation from ME-rfMRI to derive intrinsic functional metrics that are biophysically cleaner and more robust. Across both cortical and subcortical brain regions, we systematically evaluated the test-retest reliability and functional validity of two key local metrics, amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) and regional homogeneity (ReHo), derived from our proposed method against those from conventional SE-rfMRI and ME-OC. In subcortical regions, T2*-derived metrics showed the highest mean ICCs among the three signal representations for both ALFF (ICC = 0.67, 0.66, and 0.54) and ReHo (ICC = 0.73, 0.67, and 0.63) for T2* fluctuation, ME-OC, and SE-rfMRI, respectively. A similar regionally selective pattern was observed in cortical areas susceptible to magnetic field inhomogeneities, including the orbitofrontal cortex (ALFF ICC = 0.87, 0.75, and 0.82), insula (0.83, 0.61, and 0.71), and temporal pole (0.80, 0.73, and 0.79) for T2* fluctuation, ME-OC, and SE-rfMRI, respectively. In terms of functional validity, ALFF from T2* fluctuation uniquely revealed significant condition-related differences in the right putamen, inferior frontal gyrus, and suborbital sulcus, which both ME-OC and SE-rfMRI failed to detect. Together, our findings suggest that quantitative T2*-derived metrics may provide a reliable and more biophysically specific characterization of intrinsic fMRI signal fluctuations, particularly in subcortical and susceptibility-prone cortical regions, and may complement conventional approaches in future research applications.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The capacity to retrieve semantic information, particularly related to unique entities, is thought to depend on the anterior temporal lobe (ATL). Evidence underpinning the ATL's characterization as a hub of the semantic network has depended largely on naming tasks requiring lexical retrieval. Consequently, questions about its role in accessing and integrating different types of information (e.g., that Puss in Boots is a charming trickster who wears a cavalier-style hat) remain unanswered. Here, we scanned participants performing a semantic decision task that minimized lexical retrieval containing both unique (famous people and landmarks) and common (everyday objects) probes. We included a sample of patients with left temporal lobe epilepsy (LTLE), whose seizures cause dysfunction in both the temporal neocortex and the hippocampus, a structure that has also been implicated in retrieving information about unique entities. Both groups demonstrated a wide network of regions exhibiting greater activation for unique entity decisions, including the left ATL, bilateral hippocampi, precunei and angular gyri. The LTLE group, who were impaired on the proper noun condition, showed reduced activation compared to the control group in the ipsilateral anterior temporal cortex and hippocampus. Interestingly, higher activation in the left ATL in the LTLE group during the proper noun condition was negatively associated with task performance. Our results support and expand on models of semantic memory by showing that not only the ATL but also the hippocampus and broader parts of the posterior-medial network contribute to retrieval of specific information, even when demands on lexical retrieval are minimized.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) are expanding treatment options in endometrial carcinoma, but the distribution of actionable surface targets across histologic, molecular, and genomic subgroups remains incompletely defined.This single-institution retrospective tissue microarray (TMA) study included 312 endometrial carcinomas: 158 endometrioid and 154 serous tumors. Trophoblast cell-surface antigen 2 (TROP2) was quantified by histochemical score (H-score); human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) was assessed using endometrial carcinoma-specific and gastric/DESTINY-PanTumor02 criteria; and folate receptor alpha (FRα) positivity was defined as ≥75% viable tumor cells with ≥2+ membranous staining. Molecular class was assigned using a hierarchical DNA polymerase epsilon (POLE)-mutant, microsatellite instability/mismatch repair-deficient (MSI/MMRd), p53-abnormal, and no specific molecular profile (NSMP) classifier. Tumor mutational burden (TMB) and recurrent genomic alterations were analyzed in relation to biomarker expression.TROP2 was broadly expressed, with median H-scores of 280 in endometrioid and 200 in serous carcinomas. HER2 gastric-score 2+/3+ expression and FRα positivity were enriched in serous versus endometrioid carcinoma (22.5% vs 8.9% and 20.1% vs 4.4%), restricted to FIGO grade 3 tumors, and concentrated in p53-abnormal disease. FRα positivity was absent in POLE-mutant and MSI/MMRd tumors. HER2 2+/3+ expression correlated with erb-b2 receptor tyrosine kinase 2 (ERBB2) alterations, whereas FRα-positive tumors were enriched for TP53 alterations and showed lower frequencies of ARID1A and PTEN alterations. Triple-negative TROP2/HER2/FRα tumors were uncommon (6/308, 1.9%).TROP2 is broadly expressed in endometrial carcinoma, whereas HER2 and FRα define a more restricted high-grade, serous/serous-like, p53-abnormal compartment, supporting biomarker-informed ADC development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Molecular classification has refined risk stratification in endometrial cancer and is now incorporated into the 2023 International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) staging system. However, prospective real-world data on its impact on multidisciplinary tumor board (MDT) decision making remain limited. We evaluated the impact of molecular information on adjuvant treatment recommendations in stage I to II endometrial cancer.This prospective observational study included patients with surgically treated FIGO 2023 stage I to II endometrial carcinoma discussed at MDT between February 2024 and December 2025. Clinicopathologic risk stratification was performed using the ESGO-ESTRO-ESP 2016 criteria. Molecular classification was determined using POLE sequencing and immunohistochemistry for mismatch repair (MMR) and TP53. Estrogen receptor status was not assessed, as no specific molecular profile (NSMP) subclassification was part of the operative framework during the study period. MDT recommendations were recorded before and after the integration of molecular results.A total of 122 patients were included. Molecular subtypes were NSMP in 55 (45.1%), MMR-deficient in 41 (33.6%), TP53-abnormal in 24 (19.7%), and POLE-mutated in two (1.6%). Integration of molecular classification changed MDT recommendations in 25 cases (20.5%), with escalation in 15 (12.3%) and de-escalation in 10 (8.2%). Therapy modification was most frequent in TP53-abnormal tumors (62.5%) compared with other subgroups (10.2%; odds ratio, 14.7 [95% CI, 5.1 to 42.1]; P < .001). No treatment changes were observed in NSMP or POLE-mutated tumors. The net incremental treatment cost was ₹11.8 lakh across the cohort; including molecular testing, the overall incremental cost was ₹34,672 per patient (∼$418 US dollars).Integration of molecular classification modified adjuvant treatment in approximately one fifth of patients. Changes were biologically consistent, supporting the feasibility and clinical utility of molecularly integrated MDT decision making in early-stage endometrial cancer even in resource-constrained settings.
The Purcell effect provides an effective route for tailoring light-matter interactions. However, efficient enhancement of magnetic dipole transitions remains challenging because magnetic light-matter coupling is intrinsically weak and strongly outcompeted by dominant electric dipole channels. Here we exploit high-order Mie resonances supported by low-loss TiO2 spheres to selectively enhance magnetic dipole emission from Eu3+ emitters. Numerical analysis shows that the coupling between a point emitter and Mie resonance increases with the resonance order, while the low optical loss of TiO2 enables near-field Purcell enhancement to be converted into observable far-field radiation. We further develop a surface-grafting strategy that positions Eu3+ emitters within ∼2 nm of the sphere surface to maximize emitter-resonator coupling. Using single-particle spectroscopy and a magnetic 32-pole Mie resonance, we achieve a ∼8.7-fold enhancement of the magnetic dipole transition branching ratio of Eu3+ ions, accompanied by an ∼38.1-fold increase in the magnetic dipole decay rate. Our findings not only extend Mie-tronics as a promising platform for manipulating light generation but also provide a versatile strategy for magnetic-field-driven nanophotonic functionalities.? 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
The gold standard for the management of ruptured patellar tendon is the surgical repair with nonabsorbable sutures and additional reinforcement e.g. cerclage wires as described by McLaughlin in 1947. Despite the early description, the exact placement of such cerclage wires remains unclear. The aim of the study was (1) to analyze how the cerclage elongates during knee flexion and (2) to define the insertion points with the most isometric behavior at the patella and tibial tuberosity (TT).3D simulations of 10 healthy knees in the range from 0° to 120° of flexion using weightbearing computed tomography scans were generated. 12 insertion points were defined at the patella in equal distances along the lateral and medial border from the proximal to the distal pole. 42 insertion points were defined at the tibial tuberosity (TT) in a 3.0 × 3.0 cm large grid around its center. An automatic string simulation algorithm was used to calculate the length for all possible combinations of the cerclage from 0° to 120° flexion. The most isometric combination of insertion points was found using the isometric score.The most isometric insertion at the TT is distally (p < 0.01) and towards the center of the TT (p < 0.01). The most isometric points at the TT is located 61 mm distal to the joint line and 5 mm from the anterior border of the TT in a true lateral view fluoroscopy. The insertion on the patella is insensible, as long as the patella is not bypassed proximally (p < 0.01).Elongation of patella tendon augmentation or cerclage can be reduced when choosing a distal and central insertion at the TT, while the insertion on the patella does not affect elongation as long as the patella is not by passed proximally. This might help to reduce excessive stress and prevent cerclage or augmentation failure.© 2026. The Author(s).
How embryos adapt their internal cellular machinery to reductions in cell size during development remains a fundamental question in cell biology. Here, we use high-resolution lattice light-sheet fluorescence microscopy and automated image analysis to quantify lineage-resolved mitotic spindle and chromosome segregation dynamics from the 2- to 64-cell stages in Caenorhabditis elegans embryos. While spindle length scales with cell size across both wild-type and size-perturbed embryos, chromosome segregation dynamics remain largely invariant, suggesting that distinct mechanisms govern these mitotic processes. Combining femtosecond laser ablation with large-scale electron tomography, we find that mid-spindle microtubules mediate chromosome segregation dynamics and remain uncoupled from cell size across all stages of early development. In contrast, spindle elongation is driven by cortically anchored motor proteins and astral microtubules, rendering it sensitive to cell size. Incorporating these experimental results into an extended stoichiometric model for both the spindle and chromosomes, we find that allowing only cell size and microtubule catastrophe rates to vary reproduces spindle pole-to-pole dynamics across development. The same model also accounts for centrosome separation and pronuclear positioning in the one-cell C. elegans embryo, spindle-length scaling across nematode species spanning ~100 million years of divergence, and spindle rotation in human cells. Thus, a unified stoichiometric framework provides a predictive, mechanistic account of spindle and nuclear dynamics across scales and species.© 2026. The Author(s).
Dromedary camels are of increasing economic importance; however, their reproductive efficiency remains suboptimal, and the immunological mechanisms underlying male reproductive function are still poorly understood. Sialic acid-binding immunoglobulin-like lectin 1 (Siglec-1) is an important immunomodulatory receptor in several mammalian tissues, but its expression and localization in the male reproductive tract (MRT) of camels have not previously been investigated. This study aimed to characterize the expression and localization of Siglec-1 in the MRT of adult dromedary camels during the rutting season. Tissue samples of testes, epididymis, and vas deferens were collected from 12 healthy adult camels (≥ 5 years old) and analyzed using quantitative real-time PCR, western blotting, and immunohistochemistry. Siglec-1 mRNA was detected in all examined tissues, with significantly higher expression in the caudal pole of the testis and vas deferens (p < 0.05). Western blot analysis confirmed the presence of Siglec-1 protein in all MRT segments. Immunohistochemistry revealed the localization of Siglec-1 in Leydig cells, Sertoli cells, spermatogenic cells, epididymal epithelial cells, and vas deferens epithelial cells. Semi-quantitative and quantitative analyses demonstrated significantly higher immunoreactivity in the caudal pole of the testis and vas deferens than in the remaining MRT regions (p < 0.05). In conclusion, Siglec-1 is widely distributed throughout the camel MRT, with prominent expression in the testis and vas deferens. To our knowledge, this is the first study to characterize Siglec-1 in the camel MRT. These findings suggest that Siglec-1 may contribute to reproductive immune regulation, epithelial barrier integrity, and sperm protection in dromedary camels.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
The purpose of this study was to compare the safety, efficacy, and operative outcomes of the flank-free modified supine position versus the standard prone position for percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PCNL) in patients with complex renal stones.In this prospective randomized controlled trial (May 2022-November 2024), 178 patients with complex renal stones (Guy's Stone Score II-IV) were randomized 1:1 to undergo PCNL in the flankfree modified supine position (n = 89) or standard prone position (n = 89). The primary outcome was stone-free rate (SFR), defined as no residual fragments ≥ 4 mm on noncontrast computed tomography at 3 months. Secondary outcomes included operative time, hemoglobin drop, and complications graded using the Clavien-Dindo classification.Baseline characteristics and stone complexity were comparable between groups. Mean operative time was significantly shorter in the supine group (72.61 ± 8.07 vs. 92.80 ± 6.90 min; P < 0.001). SFR was 91.0% in the supine group versus 85.4% in the prone group (P = 0.245). There were no significant differences in hemoglobin drop or overall complication rates. The prone group utilized a higher proportion of lower pole punctures (74.6% vs. 61.8%), whereas the supine group required significantly more middle (22.5% vs. 9.0%) and upper pole (11.2% vs. 2.2%) access (P < 0.05).Flank-free modified supine PCNL is a safe and effective alternative to standard prone PCNL for complex renal stones, providing significantly shorter operative time and favorable ergonomics without compromising stone clearance or safety.Copyright: © 2026 Urology Annals.
Chronic microglial neuroinflammation is a core driver of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Wei et al. recently reported a blood-brain barrier (BBB)-penetrating, microglia-targeting nanomodulator (Res@TcMNP/ASO) that simultaneously suppressed NF-κB signaling and enhanced NRF2-dependent antioxidant defense in chronically activated microglia, yet the molecular node coupling these two opposing circuits was not identified. In this perspective, drawing on primary literature spanning microglial inflammation, neuronal genome maintenance, tau regulation, and oncology, I propose that sirtuin 6 (SIRT6) is a plausible upstream candidate for this coordinated effect. SIRT6, a NAD+-dependent chromatin deacetylase, restrains NF-κB through H3K9 deacetylation at RELA target promoters and, in parallel, deacetylates and stabilizes NRF2 to amplify antioxidant transcription; its decline in the aging and AD brain promotes DNA damage and GSK3-driven tau hyperphosphorylation. Because a microglia-restricted carrier confines pathway modulation to the relevant cell population, this delivery strategy is well matched to a SIRT6-centered mechanism, while the context-dependent, potentially oncogenic nature of systemic SIRT6 activation reinforces the rationale for such restricted delivery. I outline specific loss- and gain-of-function experiments to test whether microglial SIRT6 mediates the dual-pathway effects of Res@TcMNP/ASO, offering a falsifiable hypothesis to guide future mechanistic and therapeutic work.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Though inhibiting the RBPJ transcription complex reduces PD-L1 expression and alleviates T cell dysfunction in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the tumor immunomodulatory function of RBPJ in T cells is unclear. This study used patient-derived xenograft models to illustrate the role of RBPJ disruption in clinical outcomes and sensitivity to immunotherapy. Immunoprecipitation was performed to identify whether HUWE1 is the E3 ubiquitin ligase for RBPJ. CUT&Tag, ChIP-/ATAC-qPCR, flow cytometry, and CyTOF were used to investigate the molecular mechanism of how RBPJ regulated the function of HCC-infiltrating T cells. Mice with conditional knockout or knock-in of Huwe1 or Rbpj in T cells were used to evaluate their role in the tumor growth. Furthermore, virtual screening, molecular dynamics simulation, immunoprecipitation, and DNA pull-down assays revealed the role of acarbose in RBPJ transcription complex. Our study found that RBPJ expression rose in exhausted T cells, aggravating their exhaustion. Mechanistically, HUWE1 facilitated the K341 ubiquitination of RBPJ through K48 linkage. RBPJ contributed to T cell exhaustion by enhancing the transcription of exhaustion-related genes as a transcription factor, recruiting RUVBL1 to elevate H3K4me3 levels on the promoters of exhaustion-related genes or H3K27ac on their enhancers, and induced the transcription of the KMT2C, thereby increasing H3K4me1 levels on the enhancers of exhaustion-related genes. Furthermore, acarbose-induced damage in the RBPJ transcriptional complex indicated that targeting T cell exhaustion may be a promising HCC treatment. Collectively, our research results indicated that inhibiting the RBPJ in T cells changed the tumor microenvironment from "cold" to "hot".© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to ADMC Associazione Differenziamento e Morte Cellulare.
Acute kidney injury (AKI) is highly prevalent worldwide but lacks specific treatments. Mitochondrial dysfunction plays a central role in its pathogenesis, making mitochondrial protection a promising therapeutic strategy. Miro1 is a key regulator of mitochondrial dynamics, yet its involvement in AKI remains unexplored. In this study, we found that Miro1 expression was significantly downregulated in renal tubular cells from AKI patients and in multiple murine AKI models. Functional studies demonstrated that Miro1 loss aggravated tubular cell injury and mitochondrial dysfunction, whereas Miro1 overexpression exerted protective effects. Mechanistically, we identified Sirt6 as a novel interacting partner of Miro1. Sirt6 directly deacetylated Miro1 at lysine residue K182, which inhibited its ubiquitin-proteasome degradation and maintained Miro1 protein stability. Disruption of Sirt6 activity led to enhanced Miro1 downregulation and increased tubular cell apoptosis, while Sirt6 activation reversed these detrimental effects in a deacetylase-dependent manner. Reciprocal rescue experiments further confirmed that Miro1 serves as a critical downstream effector of Sirt6. Collectively, our findings uncover the Sirt6-Miro1 axis as a previously unrecognized protective mechanism in AKI, wherein Sirt6 stabilizes Miro1 via deacetylation to preserve mitochondrial homeostasis and alleviate kidney injury. This axis may represent a novel therapeutic target for AKI intervention.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Gastric cancer (GC) remains a major global health challenge, underscoring the urgent need for effective therapeutic strategies. Ferritinophagy-driven ferroptosis has recently emerged as a promising anticancer approach; however, potent pharmacological inducers and their modes of action remain largely unexplored.This study aimed to investigate whether Tanshinone I (Tan I), a bioactive diterpenoid quinone, exerts antitumor effects against GC via ferritinophagy-dependent ferroptosis and to elucidate its underlying molecular mechanism.Ferroptosis induction was evaluated using pharmacological rescue assays, flow cytometry, confocal microscopy, and transmission electron microscopy. Mechanistic investigations were conducted through quantitative proteomics, immunofluorescence staining, immunoblotting, and analyses of protein stability and ubiquitination. Target identification and validation were employed using limited proteolysis-mass spectrometry, cellular thermal shift assay, drug affinity responsive target stability, computational modeling, co-immunoprecipitation, and genetic manipulation. The antitumor efficacy of Tan I was further evaluated in orthotopic and patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models.Tan I was identified as a potent inducer of ferroptosis and ferritinophagy in GC cells, as demonstrated by increased labile ferrous iron and lipid reactive oxygen species, characteristic mitochondrial abnormalities, and partial reversal of Tan I-induced cytotoxicity by ferroptosis inhibitors. Mechanistically, Tan I disrupted the interaction between the E3 ubiquitin ligase HUWE1 and the ferritinophagy cargo receptor NCOA4, thereby attenuating HUWE1-mediated ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of NCOA4. Stabilization of NCOA4 enhanced ferritin turnover, resulting in iron overload, lipid peroxidation, mitochondrial dysfunction, and ultimately ferroptotic cell death. Notably, HUWE1 knockdown mimicked the key ferroptotic phenotypes induced by Tan I, whereas HUWE1 overexpression or NCOA4 knockdown mitigated these effects. Importantly, Tan I significantly suppressed tumor growth in both orthotopic and PDX models at well-tolerated doses while concomitantly activating ferritinophagy- and ferroptosis-associated markers in vivo.By targeting the HUWE1-NCOA4 axis, Tan I induced ferritinophagy-dependent ferroptosis and exerted potent antitumor activity against GC, highlighting its potential as a lead compound for ferroptosis-based cancer therapies.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Chronic exposure to ultraviolet A (UVA) radiation is the principal environmental driver of skin photoaging, yet the upstream molecular events that commit irradiated keratinocytes to senescence remain poorly understood. Here we show that SIRT6, an NAD+-dependent protein deacetylase with established roles in genome maintenance and organismal longevity, functions as a central gatekeeper of keratinocyte homeostasis under photic stress. Using a chronic UVA irradiation model in mice together with cultured human keratinocytes, we demonstrate that UVA inflicts extensive DNA damage and G2/M cell-cycle arrest, accompanied by selective depletion of SIRT6 among all sirtuin family members. Mechanistically, UVA suppresses the deubiquitinase USP10 at both transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels, thereby licensing ubiquitin-dependent proteasomal degradation of SIRT6. The resulting SIRT6 deficiency unleashes hyperactivation of the DNA-damage sensor PARP1, amplifying genomic injury signaling and driving keratinocytes into irreversible senescence with concomitant elaboration of a broad pro-inflammatory secretory programme encompassing chemokines and cytokines. Pharmacological reactivation of SIRT6 with the selective agonist UBCS039 reverses epidermal hyperplasia, attenuates DNA damage and senescence marker accumulation, and suppresses inflammatory mediator induction both in vivo and in vitro, establishing SIRT6 loss as a causal rather than correlative event. Furthermore, molecular docking and functional validation identify osthole, a plant-derived coumarin from the medicinal herb Cnidium monnieri, as a candidate SIRT6-engaging compound that counteracts UVA-induced senescence and inflammation in keratinocytes. Collectively, these findings define a USP10-SIRT6-PARP1 signaling axis whose disruption underlies cutaneous photoaging and suggest that SIRT6-directed strategies may offer therapeutic benefit against UV-driven tissue degeneration.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
To characterize the clinical phenotypes and identify the genetic etiology in four unrelated families affected by Turner-type X-linked intellectual disability (XLID).Peripheral blood samples were collected from four probands and their parents. Genomic DNA was extracted, and a comprehensive genetic analysis was performed using trio-based Whole Exome Sequencing (WES) combined with low-pass Copy Number Variation sequencing (CNV-seq). Candidate variants were subsequently validated via Sanger sequencing.Genetic analysis identified distinct variants in the HUWE1 across the four families. Specifically, four distinct HUWE1 variants were identified across the families: a hemizygous c.10034 > T (p.Lys3345Met) in Family 1; a heterozygous c.9209G > A (p.Arg3070His) in Family 2; a heterozygous c.12688T > C (p.Phe4230Leu) in Family 3; and a hemizygous c.9070G > A (p.Ala3024Thr) in Family 4. In accordance with ACMG guidelines, the novel variants in Families 1, 3, and 4 were classified as "Likely Pathogenic" (PS2 + PM2_Supporting + PP2 + PP3). In contrast, the previously reported variant in Family 2 was categorized as "Pathogenic" based on the criteria PS2 + PM2_Supporting + PM5 + PP2 + PP3_Moderate. All probands were clinically diagnosed with Turner-type XLID.This study expands the pathogenic variant spectrum of HUWE1 and provides novel molecular evidence for the clinical diagnosis of Turner-type XLID. These findings are of significant value for genetic counseling, carrier screening, and prenatal diagnosis for the affected families.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
The NAD + -dependent histone deacetylase Sirt6 regulates transcription of multiple classes of genes, including those involved in metabolism, immune response, oxidative stress response, and development. Defining the Sirt6-regulated transcriptome is relevant to understanding the various important physiological roles of Sirt6, such as extending lifespan, maintaining metabolic health, and tumor suppression. Numerous studies have identified Sirt6 target genes, using both targeted and genome-wide approaches; however, consensus is limited and there has yet to be a systematic analysis of gene expression changes induced by altering Sirt6 levels. In the present study, we conducted a meta-analysis of 19 mammalian RNA-seq datasets in which Sirt6 levels were perturbed (knockout, knockdown, or overexpression). Our analyses included Gene Set Enrichment Analysis, pathway analysis of differentially expressed genes, and identification of individual differentially expressed genes. Our analysis identified consistent gene expression changes associated with lowering Sirt6 levels, including increased expression of immune response and ribosomal protein genes and reduced expression of lipid oxidation and oxidative phosphorylation genes. Extracellular Matrix and E2F target genes also had consistently increased expression upon Sirt6 reduction, highlighting novel regulation by Sirt6. To determine the conservation of gene regulation by Sirt6, we performed additional RNA-Seq meta-analysis on tissues from Drosophila melanogaster with Sirt6 deletion and overexpression. The fly datasets produced similar results to the mammal results, except for lipid oxidation genes, which were found to increase in Sirt6-low conditions. These results provide consensus about conserved and novel pathways transcriptionally regulated by Sirt6.
Aging and obesity are characterized by comorbidities like declines in fertility, lifespan, gut barrier integrity, cardiac function, and motor activity, and an increase in oxidative stress due to altered nutrient and energy homeostasis. A study on Drosophila Neprilysin-like 15 ( Nepl15 ) demonstrated that loss of Nepl15 gene significantly reduced glycogen and glycerolipid reserves in adult males and increased glycogen storage in adult females despite similar food consumption as controls. Therefore, we investigated the sex- and age-specific consequences of Nepl15 loss on cellular and physiological parameters associated with aging and obesity. We observed that egg production, rate of pupariation, and rate of adult fly eclosion were slightly better in the mutant flies. Interestingly, mutant females, but not males, exhibited significantly extended lifespan. Both sexes demonstrated improved locomotor performance, exercise endurance, gut barrier integrity, and preserved heart rate during progressive aging. At the cellular level, female mutants displayed reduced oxidative stress, elevated Sod2 expression, and increased ATP levels, all indicative of enhanced cellular health. Mutant males exhibited an increased mitochondrial membrane potential, indicating an enhanced capacity for rapid ATP production in response to enforced activity. Consistently, the energy-sensing kinase AMPK expression was reduced in the mutants. The lifespan extension of mutant females was supported by downregulation of mTOR and upregulation of Sirt6 expression. However, in mutant males, both mTOR and Sirt6 were downregulated, potentially contributing to improved physiological health without changing their lifespan. Collectively, our findings establish Nepl15 knockout mutation promotes anti-aging and anti-obesity health benefits, with stronger effects in female flies.
SIRT6 downregulation in atherosclerotic vascular endothelial cells (ECs) is exacerbated under diabetic conditions, and EC-specific Sirt6 knockout aggravates diabetic atherosclerosis progression. EC-specific Sirt6 knockout aggravates atherosclerosis progression through vasculature hyperpermeability and monocyte/macrophage accumulation in vessels. SIRT6 directly interacts with transcription factor zinc finger E-box binding homeobox 1 (ZEB1) for deacetylation/degradation, preserving ZEB1 at a low level for normal expression of tight junction protein claudin-1 in ECs to maintain endothelial barrier function for vascular homeostasis. Naringin, a natural flavonoid ZEB1 inhibitor, reverses the diabetes-exacerbated vascular endothelial dysfunction to attenuate atherosclerosis progression, offering a promising, novel therapeutic strategy for diabetic atherosclerotic cardiovascular diseases.© 2026 by the American Diabetes Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42127749 is a review article
Maintenance of genomic integrity following ionizing radiation (IR) and chemical exposures is primarily a function of the base excision repair (BER) pathway. This genome surveillance is initiated by DNA glycosylases, with the endonuclease VIII-like 1 (NEIL1) glycosylase, apurinic/apyrimidinic site (AP) lyase being responsible for the release of IR-induced DNA lesions. Suppressed expression of NEIL1 leads to increased IR cytotoxicity. Previous analyses of a single nucleotide polymorphic (SNP) variant of NEIL1, Thr103Ala (T103A), revealed compromised catalytic activities. This investigation was designed to determine the mechanisms underlying the deficiencies of T103A.Mutant and variant NEIL1 enzymes were constructed and characterized for their ability to catalyze incision of DNAs containing site-specific base damages. Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations of wild-type (WT) and T103A variant NEIL1 using the NEIL1 crystal structure, addressed mechanisms conferring catalytic activity changes.The glycosylase and AP lyase activities of NEIL1 T103A could be partially restored in the presence of Mg2+. The catalytic activities of T103S were also stimulated by this metal. Similar increases of the reaction rates of T103A and T103S were observed in the presence of Ca2+. In contrast, the activities of WT NEIL1 and T103V mutant were not stimulated by the addition of these metals. MD simulations reveal that the surface loop (residues 102-110) displays enhanced conformational fluctuations in the T103A variant compared to that region in WT NEIL1. Mg2+ hexahydrate coordinated to carbonyl oxygens of loop residues dampens loop dynamics.This study is the first report of the metal-dependent stimulation of compromised activities in a DNA glycosylase variant. The MD simulations suggest that Mg2+ stabilizes the surface loop dynamics in the T103A variant, with the effects of the T to A substitution and Mg2+ presence being transmitted over a distance greater than 26 Å to the NEIL1 active site.
HIV-1 Vpr has a major impact on the cellular transcriptome and proteome. Although Vpr is known to stimulate the nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT), it remained unclear to what extent transcriptional changes induced by Vpr are governed by NFAT. We, therefore, performed RNA sequencing and transcription factor network analyses of primary CD4+ T cells infected with HIV-1 harboring an intact or defective vpr open reading frame. Furthermore, we analyzed Vprs from HIV-1 groups M, N, O, and P to investigate whether Vpr-mediated NFAT activation is conserved among different clades of HIV-1. All Vprs stimulated NFAT and induced the expression of the T cell activation marker CD69, which is a bona fide target of NFAT in T cells. Our transcriptome analysis showed that NFAT controls 46.5% of 1,083 Vpr-deregulated genes in primary CD4+ T cells. Gene set enrichment analyses revealed that Vpr upregulates processes related to signaling, proliferation, and immunity, while downregulating cell cycle progression, ribosome activity, and cytoskeleton organization. Quantitative real-time PCR confirmed Vpr-mediated modulation of specific genes, i.e., upregulation of NEIL1, TNFS4, and CXCL10, as well as downregulation of CCNB1, CDC20, CENPA, and PLK1. Notably, NFAT inhibition abrogated Vpr-mediated enhancement of HIV-1 replication in primary CD4+ T cells and alleviated G2 arrest in Jurkat T cells. In conclusion, a significant proportion of Vpr-deregulated genes in CD4+ T cells are controlled by NFAT. Affected pathways are related to T cell activation, cell cycle progression, cytoskeleton, and chromosome organization. Thus, Vpr-mediated NFAT activation is a key regulatory event that reprograms the host cell transcriptome into an environment supportive of HIV-1 replication.The HIV-1 accessory protein Vpr is known for its profound effect on the host proteome. It degrades many cellular proteins, including transcription factors and DNA-associated proteins. In addition, Vpr activates the nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT), a key transcription factor in T cells. However, it has remained unclear to what extent Vpr and consequently NFAT control changes in the transcriptome of HIV-1-infected primary CD4+ T cells. In this study, we show that Vpr significantly alters the transcriptome of CD4+ T cells, with almost half of the deregulated genes being under NFAT control. These changes involve pathways associated with increased immune activation and cell cycle regulation, shedding light on how Vpr contributes to CD4+ T cell depletion and HIV-1 pathogenesis.
Glioma is the most common malignant primary brain tumor. Temozolomide (TMZ) is the standard first-line chemotherapy, but its efficacy is severely limited by acquired resistance. Understanding resistance mechanisms, especially beyond traditional DNA repair, is crucial for improving outcomes.We integrated multi-database glioma transcriptomics (TCGA, GTEx, CGGA). Bioinformatics (differential expression, WGCNA, glycolipid metabolism gene screening) and machine learning (LASSO, random forest) identified key genes, focusing on the DNA glycosylase NEIL1. Its expression was assessed in U251 MG cells versus TMZ-resistant (U251 MG/TMZ) cells. Gain/loss-of-function studies (lentiviral knockdown/overexpression) and pharmacological inhibition (a 2-thioxanthine derivative, TX16) were used to evaluate NEIL1's role in proliferation (CCK-8, EdU), migration, invasion, apoptosis (TUNEL), ROS, and TMZ sensitivity (IC50). A subcutaneous nude mouse model provided in vivo validation.NEIL1 was aberrantly expressed in glioma and enriched in PI3K-Akt/cAMP signaling, suggesting that it may promote the malignant behavior of U251 MG cells through these pathways. Its expression was significantly higher in TMZ-resistant cells (P < 0.001). NEIL1 overexpression promoted malignant phenotypes (proliferation, migration, invasion, P < 0.05), while its knockdown suppressed them. Critically, NEIL1 overexpression attenuated TMZ-induced ROS and DNA damage, increased cell viability and IC50 (1.2-fold), and bolstered TMZ resistance. The NEIL1 inhibitor TX16 reversed these malignant behaviors and restored TMZ sensitivity (P < 0.05), reinstating ROS-driven apoptosis. In vivo, NEIL1 promoted tumor growth, which was suppressed by TX16.NEIL1 drives glioma malignancy and TMZ resistance by mitigating oxidative stress and DNA damage, highlighting its role as a promising target to overcome chemoresistance.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most prevalent malignant tumor in children, with B-cell ALL (B-ALL) accounting for 85% of cases. Despite advancements in chemotherapy and supportive care, a subset of high-risk B-ALL patients still experience relapse post-treatment. The molecular mechanisms underlying the relapses after intensified chemotherapy remain poorly understood.We performed an integrated single-cell multi-omics analysis combining single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and single-cell ATAC sequencing (scATAC-seq) on peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from pediatric high-risk B-ALL patients following early intensified chemotherapy, as well as from healthy controls. Bioinformatic pipelines were applied to assess cellular composition, chromatin accessibility, gene ontology enrichment, spectral clustering, and copy number variation.Significant differences in cellular composition were observed between the remission and non-remission groups, with the non-remission group exhibiting a notable increase in HSC/MPP and Pro-B cells. Copy number variation (CNV) analysis also revealed that the CNV levels in HSC/MPP and Pro-B cells were higher in the non-remission group compared to other cell types. We subsequently identified a subcluster associated with resistance to intensified therapy within both the HSC/MPP and Pro-B cell groups. The drug-resistant subcluster of HSC/MPP cells was characterized by high expression of TCF4, EBF1, ERG, AL589693.1, and CRIM1, as well as enrichment of the allograft rejection pathway and the Notch signaling pathway. The drug-resistant subcluster of Pro-B cells was characterized by high expression of RPS29, B2M, RPL41, RPS21, NEIL1, AC007384.1, and CRIM1, as well as enrichment of the B cell receptor signaling pathway.Our study identified distinct cellular subpopulations associated with treatment failure, provide insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying treatment resistance in B-ALL and may inform the development of targeted therapies for high-risk patients.Copyright © 2025 Liu, Mao, Yang, Li, Zhou, Zhang, Jiang, Huang, Yin, Xie and Tian.
8-Oxo-7,8-dihydroguanine (8-hydroxyguanine, GO) is a major damaged base caused by oxidation. Misincorporation of dATP opposite GO by DNA polymerases leads to a G:C→T:A transversion at the damaged site via GO:A intermediate formation. The GO:A pair is also formed by 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine 5'-triphosphate incorporation opposite A. The GO:C and GO:A pairs are both repaired through the base excision repair (BER) pathway to suppress the G:C→T:A mutations. GO:C also induces action-at-a-distance mutations around the damaged base. These untargeted mutations seem to be induced through the excision of GO from GO:C by DNA glycosylases, such as OGG1 and NEIL1, in the BER pathway. The adenine base of GO:A is excised by a specific adenine DNA glycosylase, MUTYH, and this excision potentially induces action-at-a-distance mutations.In this study, plasmid DNA bearing a GO:A pair was introduced into human U2OS cells to investigate the untargeted mutations by the GO:A pair. The GO:A pair induced action-at-a-distance mutations at C bases in 5'-TpC-3' of the GO-strand, in contrast to those by GO:C, which elicit mutations at G bases of 5'-GpA-3'. Furthermore, the untargeted mutations were suppressed by the MUTYH knockdown.The GO:A pair induced the action-at-a-distance mutations through base excision by the MUTYH glycosylase.© 2025. The Author(s).
The role of oleuropein (OLE) in K562 leukemia progression was investigated by evaluating its antiproliferative effect via the XTT assay, oxidative damage through 8-OHdG and TAS/TOS measurements, and apoptotic activity using Caspase-3 assays. Total RNA was isolated from control and treated cells, followed by cDNA synthesis and RT-PCR analysis to assess mRNA expression of DNA repair-related genes. OLE reduced K562 leukemia cell viability in a time- and dose-dependent manner, with an IC50 of 244 µM at 72 h. Treatment with OLE decreased both total oxidant and antioxidant status, while increasing the oxidative stress index. However, changes in 8-OHdG and Caspase-3 levels were not statistically significant. Additionally, no significant differences were observed in the expression of XRCC1, APE1, NEIL1, and PARP1 genes after 72 h of treatment with 244 µM OLE. These findings suggest that OLE may possess anticancer potential and could contribute to the development of therapeutic strategies for hematological malignancies such as leukemia.
Hepatocellular carcinoma is a progressive tumor with an aggressive nature. Despite many treatment options, survival rates remain low. In this study, the effect of Orox A on hepatocellular carcinoma cells was investigated. Hep3B cells were treated with a range of Orox A, and cell viability was assessed by MTT assays. Subsequent analyses using RT-qPCR demonstrated alterations in the expression of DNA damage and repair genes. To determine the damage in cancer cells, the amount of 8-OHdG and NO in the cells was measured by the ELISA method. Additionally, total antioxidant/oxidant status was measured, and the OSI value was calculated. Flow cytometry analysis was conducted to ascertain the specific cell cycle phase. The IC50 dose of Orox A for hepatocellular carcinoma cells was calculated to be 1385 μM at 24 h. According to the gene expression analysis results, NEIL1, OGG1, ATM and ATR gene expressions increased significantly, while APEX1 gene expression decreased significantly. The amount of 8-OHdG dramatically increased in cancer cells treated with Orox A, whereas the level of NO significantly decreased. Total antioxidant status (TAS) and total oxidant status (TOS) were significantly decreased in Orox A-applied cancer cells, and the oxidative stress index (OSI) was significantly increased. Flow cytometry analysis revealed that Orox A treatment caused G2/M phase arrest in the cell cycle. These findings collectively suggest that Orox A exerts cytotoxic effects on Hep3B cells through mechanisms involving DNA damage, oxidative stress, and cell cycle modulation, making it a promising candidate for further anticancer therapy development.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40971347 is a review article
Coronary artery disease (CAD) is a major cause of global morbidity and mortality. Macrophages play a central role in orchestrating this disease process. In 2016, we initiated the STARNET primary blood macrophage study, followed by the multi-ethnic NGS-PREDICT primary blood macrophage study in 2018. We applied integrative systems genetics analysis to explore and validate the role of macrophage gene regulatory co-expression networks (GRNs) in clinically significant CAD. This study included 318 CAD cases and 134 CAD-free controls in STARNET, and 95 CAD cases and 35 CAD-free controls in NGS-PREDICT. Primary leukocytes were isolated from blood and differentiated into macrophages in vitro, followed by RNA extraction and deep sequencing (RNAseq). In STARNET, we analyzed differentially expressed genes, inferred macrophage GRNs, assessed the phenotypic associations and functions of these GRNs, and determined their key driver genes. Integrative analysis of STARNET expression quantitative traits (eQTLs) with genotype data from genome-wide association studies was performed to determine the content of CAD candidate genes in these GRNs, and their contributions to CAD heritability. Five independent RNAseq datasets were used to retrospectively validate CAD-associated macrophage GRNs, followed by prospective validation in the NGS-PREDICT study. Using the STARNET datasets, we identified 23 macrophage GRNs. Of these, GRNGREEN stood out as being causally associated with CAD severity (SYNTAX score) and comprised 729 genes and 90 key drivers, with the top key driver being NEIL1. GRNGREEN accounted for 3.73% of CAD heritability and contained 34 candidate genes previously identified by GWAS of CAD. Functional analysis of GRNGREEN revealed a large portion of genes involved in the biological process of SRP-dependent co-translational protein targeting to the membrane. GRNGREEN replicated retrospectively in five independent human arterial wall RNAseq datasets, and prospectively in the NGS-PREDICT study. To prevent clinically significant CAD, GRNGREEN and its top key driver NEIL1 may be suitable therapeutic targets to modify SRP-dependent co-translational targeting of proteins to the endoplasmic reticulum in macrophages.© 2025. Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
The complex pathophysiological mechanism of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) has not been fully understood. Cuproptosis is a newly discovered type of programmed cell death. Therefore, this study attempts to clarify the relationship between cuproptosis-related genes (CRGs) and the phenotype of ESRD.The National Center for Biological Information Gene Expression Omnibus database was applied to obtain the GSE37171 dataset comprising whole-genome microarray analysis of peripheral blood samples. A 3 : 1 case-control design was employed with 75 ESRD patients and 20 healthy controls who were frequency-matched for age, sex, and ethnicity. Based on differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and genes related to cuproptosis, CRGs were identified. Thereafter, we explored two different subpopulations based on the cuproptosis gene and analyzed their expression and immune infiltration. Genes specific to the CRG cluster were identified through the weighted gene co-expression network analysis algorithm, and the best prediction model was determined and verified by four machine learning methods.The study identified 14 differentially expressed CRGs, among which ATP7B, SLC31A1, LIAS, LIPT1, DLD, MTF1, CDKN2A, DBT, and DLST had relatively high expression levels in the ESRD samples. Compared with the control group, expression levels of FDX1, DLAT, PDHA1, PDHB, and GLS were significantly lower in the ESRD group, and CRGs played a key role in the regulation of immune infiltration in ESRD. Two cuproptosis-related molecular clusters were identified in the ESRD samples. Cluster2 was more correlated with the immune infiltration of ESRD. By analyzing the intersection points between CRG cluster and key genes of ESRD, a total of 888 specific DEGs were identified. Functional differences related to specific DEGs were further explored using gene set variation analysis. Five significant genes (SMC5, USP47, USP53, AGA, and DMXL1) were identified by the support vector machine model as key predictors for ESRD disease risk, achieving an area under the curve (AUC) of 1.00 in internal validation. However, external validation in independent cohorts is required prior to clinical application. Individual gene analysis showed an AUC > 0.81 in discriminating ESRD patients from healthy controls, and the expression of all 5 genes in ESRD patients was significantly lower than in the control group.This study clarified the relationship between CRGs and the phenotype of ESRD, analyzed their specific roles in the immune microenvironment, and obtained a predictive model, providing new insights for the study of its potential therapeutic targets.
Osteosarcoma (OS) is the most prevalent primary malignant bone tumor in children. We previously showed that rotenone suppressed OS cell metastasis. However, its effects on OS cell growth and the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. The purpose of this study was to investigate the role of rotenone in OS and identify its direct target.Molecular dockingand Biacore assay were used to confirm the interaction between rotenone and USP47. Co-immunoprecipitation, immunofluorescence, and cycloheximide assays were used to verify the relationship betweenUSP47 and FEN1. Cell cycle and apoptosis were examined by flow cytometry. Comet analyses were used to determine DNA damage. Deubiquination and Ub-VME assays were carried out to assess ubiquitination status and properties. Immunohistochemistry and a xenograft mouse model were utilized to validate the effects of various proteins and rotenone in vivo.Knockdown of FEN1 and USP47 in OS cell lines induced cell cycle arrest and apoptosis through the induction of DNA damage. FEN1 exhibited a direct interaction with USP47. Mechanistically, wild-type USP47 regulated FEN1 protein stability through deubiquitination modification, whereas mutated Cys109Ser USP47 did not. Furthermore, rotenone modulated USP47 protein expression and the combined quantity of Ub-USP47 conjugation through physical interaction. Xenograft studies further confirmed the anti-OS activity of rotenone in vivo.Rotenone is a potential therapeutic agent for OS due to its direct targeting of USP47 and resultant decrease in FEN1 stability and DNA integrity.© 2026 Li et al.
Metabolic-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) is a common chronic liver disease caused by lipid accumulation in hepatocytes, and multiple deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) have been reported to play roles in the pathogenesis of MAFLD. However, the role of ubiquitin-specific protease 47 (USP47) in MAFLD remains unclear.MAFLD models were established in rats by a high-fat diet (HFD) and in HepG2 cells by oleic acid (OA) induction. The expression of related genes and proteins was detected via RT-qPCR, Western blotting, immunofluorescence, and immunohistochemistry. Cell damage was assessed through CCK-8 assays, flow cytometry, Oil Red O staining, and glucose uptake assays.USP47 was expressed at low levels in MAFLD models. In MAFLD model rats, Usp47 overexpression reduced body weight, fasting blood glucose, insulin levels, and insulin resistance; decreased serum TC, TG, and FFA levels; and ameliorated liver dysfunction and liver tissue pathological damage. Additionally, in the OA-induced HepG2 MAFLD model, USP47 overexpression increased cell viability; decreased apoptosis, lipid accumulation, TC, TG, and FFA levels; and increased glucose uptake capacity. Mechanistically, USP47 stabilized SIRT1 expression through deubiquitination, and SIRT1 upregulated PPARα expression via deacetylation. The SIRT1 inhibitor EX-527 and the PPARα inhibitor TPST-1120 weakened the alleviating effects of USP47 overexpression on OA-induced cellular damage and MAFLD in rats. The effect of USP47 knockdown was opposite to that of USP47 overexpression.USP47 inhibits the ubiquitination and degradation of SIRT1 and stabilizes its expression. SIRT1, in turn, increases PPARα expression through deacetylation, thereby promoting lipid metabolism and alleviating MAFLD.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Liver fibrosis is a pathological process caused by excessive deposition of extracellular matrix (ECM) in the liver stimulated by chronic injury or inflammation. Nuclear pore protein 85 (NUP85) has been implicated in the development of various liver diseases. However, its involvement in liver fibrosis remains unclear. The present study aimed to explore the role of NUP85 in liver fibrosis. The expression level of NUP85 was found to be elevated in the liver tissues of liver fibrosis patients and mice. Knockdown of NUP85 not only ameliorated liver injury and collagen deposition, but also suppressed endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS). Conversely, the opposite pathological and biochemical changes are observed with NUP85 overexpression. Mechanistically, NUP85 competitively binds ubiquitin-specific peptidase 47 (USP47) to apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1 (ASK1), deubiquitinates lysine residue 805 of ASK1, and regulates the activation of ASK1, thereby exacerbating collagen deposition and ERS. Furthermore, we developed a CREKA-coupled liposome as a targeted delivery system to deliver Mogroside V (MV), a pharmacological inhibitor of NUP85, to activated HSCs and attenuate liver fibrosis. Taken together, the present study demonstrated that NUP85 is a novel regulator of liver fibrosis and that the NUP85-USP47-ASK1 signaling pathway might be a strategy for therapeutic intervention.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Diabetic cataract has become the second-largest blind causing disease among the complications of diabetes mellitus in eyes. Ferroptosis is responsible for many complications associated with diabetes mellitus, but the role of ferroptosis in diabetic cataract has not yet been studied. Here, we first ascertained that ferroptosis was triggered during diabetic cataract, as identified by elevated levels of transferrin receptor protein 1 (CD71) and solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11), lipid peroxidation , total iron and Fe2+ under conditions of excessive glucose. Moreover, voltage-dependent anion channel 3 (VDAC3) was found to decrease under high levels of glucose both in vivo and in vitro. VDAC3 knockdown resulted in increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels and reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) levels, indicating that decreased VDAC3 modulates ferroptosis in diabetic cataract via ROS-induced lipid peroxidation. Furthermore, we verified that the level of ubiquitin-specific peptidase 47 (USP47) was decreased in high glucose-treated lens epithelial cells. We found that USP47 bound to and modulated the deubiquitination of VDAC3. This binding between USP47 and VDAC3 was weakened and VDAC3 was subsequently ubiquitinated and degraded under high glucose conditions, which ultimately resulted in ferroptosis and diabetic cataract. Overall, we verified that the USP47-VDAC3-ROS/NADH axis regulates ferroptosis in high glucose-treated lens epithelial cells (LECs) and in an animal model of diabetic cataract. Our findings increase the understanding of human diabetic cataract and provide important mechanistic insight into potential ferroptosis treatments in medicine and technology for treating diabetic cataract.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Solid tumors frequently preferentially metastasize to specific organs. Metabolites within metastatic niches have emerged as critical regulators of organotropic metastasis. In this study, we found that palmitic acid (PA) accumulated in both premetastatic and macrometastatic lung niches. Lung-preferential metastatic breast cancer (LM-BC) cells secreted exosomal USP47 that was taken up by lung-resident alveolar type II epithelial cells and enhanced fatty acid synthesis via YAP activation, resulting in PA enrichment and subsequent lung metastasis. ACSL5 in LM-BC cells facilitated PA adaptation by inducing COX2-mediated PGE2 accumulation and subsequent activation of the PI3K/AKT and ERK signaling pathways through EP4, which promoted cell survival and lung metastasis. Moreover, ACSL5 boosted levels of palmitoyltransferases, further enhancing COX2 expression, which could be inhibited by the palmitoylation inhibitor 2-bromopalmitate. Notably, the enrichment of PA, accumulation of PGE2, and activation of the ACSL5/COX2/EP4 axis in lung metastases of patients with breast cancer correlated with poorer clinical outcomes. Limiting PA intake or targeting the ACSL5/COX2/EP4 axis enhanced paclitaxel efficacy in a breast cancer mouse model. Collectively, these findings highlight the critical role of PA and ACSL5/COX2/EP4 signaling in lung metastasis, which can act as promising targets for enhancing the efficacy of chemotherapy in patients with breast cancer with lung metastasis.Metastatic breast cancer cells promote a palmitic acid-enriched pulmonary microenvironment that supports lung metastasis but also confers a targetable metabolic vulnerability that can be exploited to improve patient outcomes.©2026 The Authors; Published by the American Association for Cancer Research.
Skeletal muscle atrophy, a debilitating complication of COPD, is closely linked to cigarette smoke (CS) exposure. The epigenetic regulator HDAC2 has been implicated, but the upstream regulatory mechanisms and precise downstream pathways are unclear. Using a CS-induced mouse atrophy model and C2C12 myotubes treated with cigarette smoke extract (CSE), we systematically investigated the role of USP47/HDAC2/CYP1A1/ROS axis through gain/loss-of-function studies, RNA-seq, ChIP-qPCR, co-immunoprecipitation, and ubiquitination assays. HDAC2 was downregulated in atrophic muscle, and its overexpression mitigated CS-induced atrophy, improved grip strength, and enhanced muscle regeneration. HDAC2 acted as a transcriptional repressor of CYP1A1 by deacetylating H3K9 and H3K27 at the promoter, thus curtailing ROS-driven excessive autophagy. We further discovered that the deubiquitinase USP47 is the key upstream regulator of HDAC2. USP47 directly interacted with HDAC2, promoted its deubiquitination, and enhanced its protein stability. Consequently, USP47 overexpression phenocopied the benefits of HDAC2 overexpression, which were effectively nullified by restoring CYP1A1 expression. In conclusion, we delineate a previously unrecognized signaling axis wherein USP47 stabilizes HDAC2 to inhibit the CYP1A1/ROS/autophagy cascade, ultimately protecting against CS-induced skeletal muscle atrophy. Targeting the USP47-HDAC2 interface presents a novel therapeutic strategy for combating muscle wasting in COPD.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Introduction: Lung cancer is a highly lethal disease characterized by a significant mortality rate. Cisplatin, a common drug used for lung cancer treatment, frequently develops resistance over time. Therefore, overcoming cisplatin resistance is crucial in the effective management of lung cancer. The ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) serves as a vital regulatory mechanism for maintaining protein homeostasis within cells. Recent studies have shown that manipulating deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) can overcome cisplatin resistance. This study aims to investigate the expression levels of DUBs under cisplatin treatment. Methods: Multiplex RT-PCR analysis was performed to identify potential biomarkers by comparing the differential expression patterns of DUBs, and their expression levels were analyzed by RT-qPCR. In addition, their protein expression levels were determined by western blot analysis. The bioinformatics tools including TCGA database and GEPIA website were used to validate potential as prognostic markers in lung cancer. Results: Multiplex RT-PCR analysis was performed to identify potential biomarkers by comparing the differential expression patterns of DUB genes. Multiplex RT-PCR showed distinct mRNA expression profiles of several DUB genes, including USP35, USP36, USP37, USP47, USP49, and OTUD6B in A549 lung cancer cells following exposure to cisplatin. In addition, RT-qPCR analysis revealed the downregulation of USP35, USP36, USP37, USP47, USP49, and OTUD6B, juxtaposed with the upregulation of USP47 under cisplatin treatment. Substantiating these findings, western blotting analysis confirmed the protein expression levels of USP35, USP36, USP37, USP47, USP49, and OTUD6B in cisplatin-treated lung cancer cells, mirroring the mRNA trends observed in non-treated counterparts except for OTUD6B. Bioinformatics analysis demonstrates that these DUBs except USP47 are upregulated and overall survival analysis indicates that lower expression of these DUBs, except USP37 and USP49, is correlated with improved overall survival in lung cancer patients. Conclusion: These findings strongly suggest that DUBs may play a crucial role in overcoming cisplatin resistance and improving the treatment efficacy for lung cancer.© The author(s).
Inappropriate activation of the Hedgehog (HH) signaling pathway drives the pathogenesis of several cancers, including medulloblastoma (MB), the most common malignant brain tumor in children. HH group MB (HH-MB) is highly heterogeneous and resistant to current treatments. Understanding the molecular events underlying the control of the HH pathway is critical for the development of more effective and tailored interventions. Endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 1 (ERAP1), a key regulator of the immune response, has emerged as a promising therapeutic target for HH-MB, but the lack of clinically viable ERAP1 inhibitors has hindered progress in this area. Here, we identify canthin-6-one (N1) as a selective ERAP1 inhibitor. N1 binds directly to ERAP1 and disrupts its function in the HH pathway, resulting in reduced signaling. Specifically, N1 impairs the association of ERAP1 with the deubiquitinase USP47, promoting βTrCP protein stability and Gli1 degradation. Notably, HH-dependent cells genetically depleted for ERAP1 are insensitive to N1, confirming its specificity. Remarkably, N1 inhibits HH-MB growth in vitro and in vivo, crosses the blood-brain barrier, and improves survival in an HH-MB mouse model. These findings highlight N1 as a breakthrough ERAP1 inhibitor and provide a promising therapeutic option for the treatment of HH-dependent cancers.Copyright © 2025 The American Society of Gene and Cell Therapy. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40939801 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42549137 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42484672 is a review article
The progression of colorectal cancer (CRC) is highly dependent on tumor angiogenesis, a process primarily regulated by hypoxia-inducible factor HIF-1α. This study focuses on the mechanistic role of protein arginine methyltransferase 6 (PRMT6) in CRC angiogenesis and reveals that PRMT6 is significantly overexpressed in CRC tissues, stabilizing HIF-1α via the autophagy-lysosome pathway. Specifically, PRMT6 catalyzes the asymmetric dimethylation of HIF-1α at arginine 463, which disrupts its interaction with the autophagy-related protein TAX1BP1, thereby preventing its degradation. In vivo experiments demonstrate that PRMT6 silencing reduces HIF-1α stability, decreases vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) expression, and markedly suppresses tumor angiogenesis and growth. This study identifies the PRMT6-HIF-1α axis as a novel therapeutic target for CRC and suggests that targeting this pathway may facilitate the development of precision anti-angiogenic therapies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Odontogenic differentiation of stem cells from apical papilla (SCAPs) is critical for pulp regeneration therapy. Protein arginine methyltransferase 6 (PRMT6) plays an important role in stem cell differentiation, but the specific functions and mechanisms remain unclear. This study aimed to explore the role of PRMT6 nuclear localization sequence (NLS) in regulating SCAPs osteogenic and odontogenic differentiation and its underlying mechanism.SCAPs were isolated and identified by flow cytometry. Wild-type PRMT6 and NLS-deleted PRMT6 (PRMT6ΔNLS) overexpression models were constructed via lentiviral infection. Osteogenic and odontogenic differentiation was evaluated via alkaline phosphatase staining, Alizarin Red staining, western blot, and in vivo nude mouse transplantation. Mitochondrial function was analysed by transmission electron microscopy, mitochondrial stress testing, and JC-10 membrane potential assays. Downstream gene expression and β-catenin pathway activity were examined via real-time RT-PCR, western blot, and rescue experiments were performed by exogenous Dickkopf‑1 (DKK1) supplementation.PRMT6 exhibited nucleocytoplasmic redistribution during early odontogenic differentiation of SCAPs, with increased nuclear export. NLS mutation reduced PRMT6 nuclear accumulation, reversed PRMT6-mediated inhibition of in vitro mineralization and osteogenic and odontogenic marker expression, and promoted in vivo bone-/dentin-like tissue formation. Additionally, PRMT6ΔNLS rescued mitochondrial ultrastructural damage, increased OCR and mitochondrial membrane potential, and improved mitochondrial function. Mechanistically, PRMT6ΔNLS downregulated Wnt antagonist DKK1, activated the β-catenin pathway, and exogenous DKK1 abolished this pro-differentiation effect.PRMT6 nuclear localization is essential for its inhibitory effect on SCAPs osteogenic and odontogenic differentiation. NLS-deleted PRMT6 promotes SCAPs differentiation by rescuing mitochondrial function and activating the β-catenin pathway via downregulating DKK1.This study provides a theoretical basis and potential targets for promoting dentin-pulp regeneration by modulating PRMT6 nuclear transport.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Diabetic neuropathic pain (DNP) is a major contributor to chronic pain in adults, yet effective targeted therapies are still lacking, underscoring the need to elucidate its underlying mechanisms. Microglial proliferation and activation are key drivers of central sensitization and pain hypersensitivity. In a type 2 diabetes mouse model, protein arginine methyltransferase 6 (PRMT6) was markedly upregulated in spinal dorsal horn microglia in male mice, and high-glucose stimulation similarly increased PRMT6 expression in BV-2 cells, accompanied by enhanced proliferation and inflammatory activation. Genetic deletion of Prmt6 or pharmacological inhibition with EPZ020411 alleviated pain hypersensitivity and reduced spinal microgliosis and inflammation in male mice. Transcriptomic analysis revealed enrichment in cell proliferation-related processes and the p53 signaling pathway. In BV-2 cells, PRMT6 knockdown induced G0/G1 arrest and attenuated high-glucose-induced proliferation and inflammatory activation, whereas PRMT6 overexpression exerted opposite effects. Mechanistically, PRMT6 methylated p53 and decreased its transcriptional activity, leading to reduced p21 mRNA expression and enhanced cell-cycle progression. In contrast, in female DNP mice, spinal microgliosis was limited, PRMT6 expression remained unchanged, and Prmt6 deficiency did not significantly alter spinal microglial density, inflammatory markers, or nociceptive hypersensitivity. Collectively, our results uncover a previously unrecognized PRMT6-p53-p21 regulatory axis that may contribute to microglial proliferation and neuroinflammation under hyperglycemic conditions in male mice, highlighting PRMT6 as a potential therapeutic target for microglia-associated DNP.© 2026. The Author(s).
Protein arginine methyltransferase 6 (PRMT6) is confirmed to regulate Alzheimer's disease (AD) process. Acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4 (ACSL4)-mediated ferroptosis is involved in regulating AD progression. However, whether PRMT6 regulates AD progression through ACSL4-mediated ferroptosis is unknown.AD mice were injected with adeno-associated virus to explore the role of PRMT6 and AlkB homologue 5 (ALKBH5) in vivo. Neuronal cells were treated with amyloid-β protein fragment 1-42 (Aβ1-42) to mimic AD cell models. The expression levels of PRMT6, ALKBH5, ACSL4, GPX4, and SLC7A11 were tested by qRT-PCR or western blot. Cell viability and apoptosis were detected by CCK8 assay and TUNEL staining. The levels of ROS, MDA, SOD and Fe2+ were tested to evaluate ferroptosis. Mouse behavior, neuron injury, Aβ deposition, and neuronal cell apoptosis were examined by morris water maze test, novel object recognition test, histological staining and TUNEL staining. The interactions between PRMT6 and ALKBH5 or ACSL4 were analyzed.PRMT6 expression was upregulated in AD mice. Silencing of PRMT6 repressed Aβ1-42-induced neuronal cell apoptosis and ferroptosis, as well as alleviated cognitive deficits in AD mice. ALKBH5 reduced PRMT6 expression by inhibiting its m6A modification. ALKBH5 overexpression suppressed Aβ1-42 induced apoptosis and ferroptosis in neuronal cells, and this effect was reversed by PRMT6 upregulation. Besides, PRMT6 promoted ACSL4 expression via increasing H3R2me2a on the ACSL4 promoter, and ACSL4 overexpression also abolished the inhibitory effect of PRMT6 knockdown on Aβ1-42-induced cell ferroptosis. Meanwhile, ALKBH5 inhibited neuronal cell ferroptosis to relieve cognitive deficits in AD mice via repressing the PRMT6/ACSL4 axis.ALKBH5 could inhibit neuronal cell ferroptosis to alleviate the progression of AD by decreasing PRMT6-mediated ACSL4 transcription through H3R2me2a.© 2026. The Author(s).
Enhancer of zeste homologue 2 (EZH2), as a key histone methyltransferase, is elevated in multiple malignant tumours, which leads to poor prognosis. However, the underlying mechanisms for mediation of EZH2 enzyme activity remain elusive. Here, we report that PRMT6 asymmetrically dimethylates EZH2 at R509 to promote the bindings between EZH2 and other core component of the polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2), which enhances PRC2 induced methylation of histone H3 at K27. EZH2 R509 methylation blocks the expression of PRC2 target genes, leading to breast tumorigenesis in vitro and in vivo. Combination of PRMT6 inhibitor EPZ020411, and EZH2 inhibitor GSK126 effectively suppresses breast tumour growth in the mouse xenografts. Furthermore, immunohistochemical analyses demonstrate there is a positive correlation between PRMT6 and meR509-EZH2 expression in the breast cancer tissues. Consistently, PRMT6 mediated EZH2 R509 methylation is also confirmed in PRMT6-knockout mice. Our findings reveal that PRMT6 inhibitors might be promising combination therapy for EZH2-targeting cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Neonatal mice achieve scar-free healing after spinal cord injury (SCI) by restoring microglial homeostasis, unlike adults, where persistent microglial dyshomeostasis drives scar expansion through mechanisms that remain elusive. Using RNA sequencing, we identified protein arginine methyltransferase 6 (PRMT6) as a key regulator of this disparity, upregulated in activated microglia at adult SCI lesions but maintained at low levels in neonatal microglia after injury. In adult mice, Prmt6 deficiency restored microglial homeostasis, evidenced by increased P2Y12/TMEM119 and reduced CD68, while reducing scar formation and enhancing axonal regrowth and motor recovery. Microglia-specific Prmt6 knockdown or PRMT6 inhibitor administration recapitulated these effects. Mechanistically, PRMT6 deposits H3R2me2a at the Ppargc1a promoter to repress peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ coactivator-1α（PGC-1α）, thereby inhibiting fatty acid oxidation (FAO) and disrupting microglial homeostasis. Loss of Prmt6 alleviates this epigenetic repression, restoring FAO and microglial homeostasis. These findings establish PRMT6 as a novel epigenetic regulator linking microglial dyshomeostasis and metabolic dysfunction to maladaptive scar formation in adult SCI, highlighting PRMT6 inhibition as a promising therapeutic strategy to reprogram microglial metabolism and promote neural repair.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41928257 is a review article
Protein arginine methyltransferases are key epigenetic regulators and promising targets for cancer therapy. PRMT4 plays an important role in transcriptional regulation and tumor progression, yet selective inhibition remains challenging because type I PRMTs share highly conserved catalytic sites. The success of allosteric inhibitors targeting PRMT3 and PRMT6 suggests that selective modulation through regulatory sites outside the catalytic pocket may also be feasible for PRMT4. Motivated by this rationale, we investigated whether PRMT4 undergoes conformational transitions between active and inactive states and whether it contains allosterically targetable pockets capable of regulating its enzymatic activity. Using an integrated computational strategy, we characterized the conformational dynamics and allosteric regulation mechanisms of PRMT4. Structural analysis identified a molecular switch involving order and disorder transitions of the N terminal helices that governs the active inactive transition. Free energy landscape analysis supported that this transition is thermodynamically accessible. We identified a PRMT3 like allosteric pocket, Cavity 1, whose targeting is predicted to disrupt inter chain communication and impair cofactor binding and active site organization. Dynamic residue network analysis further supported Cavity 1 as a functional allosteric site. We also identified a PRMT4 specific pocket, Cavity 2, with a distinct selectivity profile. These findings validate the active inactive switch and identify two druggable allosteric sites. Although experimental validation is required, this work provides a computational framework for the rational design of PRMT4 selective allosteric inhibitors.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Migraine is a highly prevalent, heritable neurological disorder with a marked female predominance, indicating substantial hormonal contributions to disease pathophysiology. Endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs) are ubiquitous environmental contaminants that interfere with hormonal signaling and have been linked to multiple diseases, yet their molecular contribution to migraine remains unclear. This study aims to identify EDC-related genes contributing to migraine risk and explore underlying mechanisms using an integrative multi-omics and causal inference framework.We curated 181 EDCs and identified 1,116 EDC-related genes through chemical-gene interaction network analysis, followed by integration of multi-omics quantitative trait loci datasets (eQTL, sQTL, mQTL, and pQTL) to derive genetic instruments. Summary data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR) was performed to assess the effects of genetically predicted molecular traits on migraine risk using genome-wide association study (GWAS) data from the OpenGWAS and GWASCatalog. HEIDI testing and Bayesian colocalization analyses were conducted to distinguish pleiotropy from linkage and to prioritize genes with shared causal variants, followed by transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS) for validation. Multi-omics integration and differential gene expression analysis were used to characterize regulatory mechanisms. Finally, molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations were performed to evaluate interactions between prioritized EDCs and molecular targets implicated in migraine pathophysiology.Eight EDC-related genes were identified as significantly associated with migraine risk, of which MEF2D, OSBPL10, B9D2, HTRA1 and PRDM16 were classified as high- or medium-evidence genes. Notably, PNKP and B9D2 demonstrated consistent cross‑tissue evidence across multiple molecular layers, including TWAS, gene expression, DNA methylation, and alternative splicing. PNKP, prioritized through integrative analyses of EDC-related genes and migraine-associated omics datasets, exhibited limited individual differential gene expression but significant enrichment of pathways related to hypothalamic-pituitary axis dysfunction, blood circulation, and pain signaling. Molecular docking and dynamics simulations further suggested stable binding between migraine-related target proteins and prioritized EDCs, including triphenyl phosphate (TPP), tris(1,3-dichloro-2-propyl) phosphate (TDCPP), and benzo(a)pyrene (B[a]P), providing preliminary connections between EDC exposure and migraine at the molecular level.This study provides integrative genetic and multi-omics evidence suggesting that EDC-related genes may be associated with to migraine susceptibility, highlighting the potential role of environmental factors to migraine risk. These findings identify a set of candidate EDCs and molecular targets that warrant further investigation, offering novel insights into migraine pathogenesis and informing future research on environmental determinants and preventive strategies for migraine.© 2026. The Author(s).
A new label‑free turn‑on fluorescent biosensor is established for highly sensitive and specific detection of T4 polynucleotide kinase (T4 PNK) activity by integrating DNA mimic green fluorescent protein (DMGFP) with λ exonuclease (λ exo) cleavage for the first time. The sensing mechanism relies on T4 PNK‑catalyzed 5'‑phosphorylation of hairpin HP‑DNA1, which triggers sequential λ exo digestion and releases ssDNA1. The liberated ssDNA1 hybridizes with DNA2 to assemble the active DMGFP structure, yielding drastic fluorescence enhancement upon binding DFHBI‑1T. Under optimized conditions, the sensor exhibits a linear response from 0 to 0.5 U/mL with a low detection limit of 0.01 U/mL and outstanding specificity toward T4 PNK. It enables quantitative evaluation of concentration‑dependent inhibition by (NH₄)₂SO₄ and Na₂HPO₄, and accurately quantifies endogenous polynucleotide kinase phosphatase (PNKP) in HeLa cell lysates. Featuring label‑free operation, rapid response, and low background, this DMGFP‑based strategy provides a reliable and versatile platform for T4 PNK activity analysis, inhibitor screening, and clinical diagnosis, showing great potential in nucleic acid metabolism research and biomedical applications.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Variants in PNKP cause a severe neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by microcephaly, seizures, and developmental delay (MCSZ). Despite clear clinical significance, the pathological mechanisms underlying this condition remain incompletely understood. In this study, CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing was applied to generate a zebrafish pnkp knockout model ( pnkp -/- ), overcoming limitations associated with previously reported mouse models that exhibited postnatal lethality. The pnkp -/- zebrafish faithfully recapitulated key phenotypic traits observed in human PNKP deficiency, facilitating in-depth exploration of the molecular mechanisms contributing to disease. Loss of PNKP function resulted in mitochondrial DNA damage, accompanied by disruption of mitochondrial ultrastructure and bioenergetic function, increased apoptosis, and reduced autophagic activity, collectively leading to pronounced cerebral neurodevelopmental abnormalities. Transcriptomic analysis based on RNA sequencing identified marked down-regulation of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor-related genes. Pharmacological activation of GABA A receptors with muscimol partially rescued hyperactive behavior in pnkp -/- zebrafish, suggesting a potential link between GABAergic signaling and seizure-related phenotypes. Drug screening performed using the pnkp -/- zebrafish model further identified lamotrigine as a comparatively effective compound for seizure control associated with PNKP mutations. These findings clarify mechanistic links between PNKP deficiency and MCSZ pathology, identify candidate therapeutic agents, and provide an experimental framework for investigation of disorders associated with defective DNA repair.
Microcephaly, seizures and developmental delay, known as MCSZ, is an uncommon autosomal recessive neurodevelopmental disorder linked to a bifunctional enzyme named polynucleotide-kinase-3'-phosphatase (PNKP). Prompt identification and management of the disorder are crucial, as delayed diagnosis or intervention may lead to severe complications or mortality.We describe a patient with small anterior fontanelle and head circumference, refractory epilepsy and global developmental delay. He was a baby conceived via in vitro fertilization (IVF). Microcephaly and oligohydramnios were detected at 32 weeks. At 4 months, the patient had recurrent convulsions without fever, presenting with tonic-clonic seizures. He was treated with four anti-seizure medications (ASMs), but did not achieve satisfactory control. At the age of 5 years old, he had not learned to speak and was unable to stand unaided. The patient harbored two novel mutations, c. 1299-1G>A and c.1283_1287dup (p.S430Pfs*39), in the PNKP gene. We confirmed, through RNA-seq, that c. 1299-1G>A results in exon 15 skipping and intron 14 retention. Both variants led to a truncated protein and may affect protein stability and enzyme activity.This is the third report of MCSZ in a non-consanguineous Chinese mainland family. Our results offer additional evidence for clinical variability associated with disorders stemming from mutations in the PNKP gene, which complicates disease diagnosis. This underscores the significance of genetic testing to identify the underlying causes of these conditions. Furthermore, these findings expand the mutation spectrum of the PNKP gene and establish a solid foundation for both clinical and prenatal diagnoses within this family.© AME Publishing Company.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most prevalent primary brain tumor. Despite extensive investigations, GBM's resistance to the first-line drug temozolomide (TMZ) remains a major challenge in clinical management. This study explores the molecular mechanisms underlying TMZ resistance in GBM, emphasizing the roles of DNA repair gene polymorphisms and intratumoral genetic heterogeneity.In this study, we collected 10 matched pairs of GBM surgical samples, including tumor tissues from the first and second surgeries, and proceeded with RNA-Seq and Exome-Seq. We performed pathway enrichment analysis and functional assays for key genetic variations in the DNA repair pathway to establish a mechanistic relationship between genetic changes and drug resistance. Sanger sequencing validated somatic variations before and after chemotherapy, and we analyzed changes in gene expression associated with DNA repair. The methylation status of the promoter region of the MGMT gene was analyzed, in addition to the effect of DNA repair genes on TMZ sensitivity in cells.This study identified 20 novel somatic mutations that uniquely occurred in pre-TMZ and post-TMZ chemotherapy samples and were significantly related to DNA repair pathways (including base excision repair [BER] and nucleotide excision repair [NER]). Functional validation experiments confirmed that the alterations in the expressed variants had disrupted important repair mechanisms related to the survival of tumor cells. Notably, differential dysregulation of the NER and BER pathways (upregulated NER and inactivated BER) was observed in recurrent tumors, serving as a compensatory mechanism for TMZ resistance. Methylation of the MGMT gene promoter region has been linked to TMZ resistance, while intratumoral genetic heterogeneity might increase the chance of resistance. Importantly, our observations point toward an evolutionary event following TMZ treatment that incorporates selective pressures for repair-deficient clones, resulting in a more aggressive fate for GBM. Cellular studies showed that the proliferation and migration ability of U87 cells were significantly elevated after the knockdown of XAB2, PNKP, and OGG1.This study represents the first comprehensive characterization of TMZ resistance in GBM based on integrated genetic, epigenetic, and functional validation approaches. In GBM, mechanisms of TMZ resistance are elucidated, with the interplay between the NER and BER pathways (compensatory regulation) being a key mechanism, alongside variations in DNA repair genes and intratumoral genetic heterogeneity. These findings highlight the importance of targeting the crosstalk between NER and BER pathways for GBM therapy, emphasizing the necessity of personalized treatment strategies and suggesting possible biomarkers for patient stratification by resistance profiles. Overall, these findings provide new avenues for developing personalized treatment strategies for GBM and can contribute to improving the prognosis of GBM patients.Copyright © 2026 Weixuan Chen et al. Human Mutation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
TDP-43 proteinopathy is central to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). TDP-43 plays a key role in DNA double-strand break repair (DSBR), though the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that ALS patients' brains exhibit persistent DNA damage within transcribed genes. Mechanistically, activity of polynucleotide kinase 3'-phosphatase (PNKP), an essential DNA end-processing enzyme required for DSBR in transcribed genes, is impaired in ALS brains and TDP-43-depleted cells. Such defect stems from reduced levels of PNKP-interacting enzyme phosphofructo-2- kinase/fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase 3 (PFKFB3) and its metabolic product fructose-2,6- bisphosphate (F2,6BP), an essential cofactor of PNKP. F2,6BP supplementation reduces cytosolic aggregation of phosphorylated and polyubiquitinated TDP-43 in patient-derived induced neurons, rescues PNKP activity in ALS/FTD brain extracts, and improves motor deficits in Drosophila TDP-43 model. Together, these findings reveal a critical link between metabolic dysregulation and genomic instability in TDP-43 pathology-associated motor neuron diseases, and underscore therapeutic potential of F2,6BP.© 2026. The Author(s).
Several reports have indicated that impaired mitochondrial function contributes to the development and progression of Huntington's disease (HD). Mitochondrial genome damage, particularly DNA strand breaks, is a potential cause for its compromised functionality. Here we show that the activity of polynucleotide kinase 3'-phosphatase (PNKP), a critical DNA end-processing enzyme, is significantly decreased in the mitochondrial extract of brains of patients with HD due to a lower level of fructose-2,6 bisphosphate (F2,6BP), a biosynthetic product of 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase 3 (PFKFB3). Such decrease in PNKP activity leads to persistent DNA strand breaks that are refractory to subsequent steps for repair completion. Both PFKFB3 and F2,6BP, an allosteric modulator of glycolysis, are also present in the mitochondria, and PFKFB3 is part of a mitochondrial DNA repair complex containing HTT, PNKP, DNA Pol γ (POLG), and Lig IIIα. Notably, PNKP binds F2,6BP (Kd = 525 ± 25 nM) and utilizes it as a cofactor. The levels of both F2,6BP and PFKFB3 are significantly decreased in the mitochondrial extract of HD mouse striatal neuronal cells and patients' brain. Activity of PNKP is thus severely decreased in the mitochondrial extract; however, addition of F2,6BP restored its activity. Moreover, supplementation of F2,6BP in HD cells restored PFKFB3 level, mitochondrial genome integrity and partially restored mitochondrial membrane potential, mitochondrial respiration and prevented pathogenic aggregate formation. Importantly, F2,6BP supplementation significantly restored mitochondrial genome integrity in an HD Drosophila model. Our findings, therefore, suggest that F2,6BP-mediated restoration of PNKP activity could have a profound impact in ameliorating neurodegenerative symptoms in HD.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The etiology of drug-resistant epilepsy (DRE) is multifactorial. A small proportion of affected patients are diagnosed with genetics. Nowadays, specific gene panels and whole-exome sequencing (WES) have increased the opportunities for specific diagnosis and treatments with developments in genetics. In this cohort study, we determined the specific diagnostic value of gene panels and WES analysis in our cases with the diagnosis of DRE.The medical records of 3727 cases were reviewed. The clinical features and genetic results of the cases who underwent TruSight One panel testing (116 cases) and WES (413 cases), followed by a diagnosis of DRE, were evaluated.Significant pathogenic mutations were detected in 234 (56.7%) of 413 patients who underwent WES. The original diagnosis was made in 55 (47.4%) of 116 cases in which the TruSight One panel was studied. Significant mutations (49.3%) were detected in 261 of 529 patients. Pathogenic mutations were detected most frequently in SCN1A (n = 20), STXBP1(n = 9), and CDKL5 (n = 9) genes. Afterwards, significant pathogenic changes were found in MECP2, ADGRV1, CACNA1H, KCNQ2, RELN, TREX1, WWOX, CACNA1, PRUNE1, CLP1, CPA7, PNKP, IFIH1, SCN8A, SCN9A, NDUFA6, UBE3A, BRPF1, CHD2, CILK1, CLCN2, EEF1A2, FLNA, GABRG2, GRIN2A, HCN1, TPP1, CLN6, FLNA, KCTD7, MTHFR, ITPA, FOXG1, KCNMA1, KCNT1, KCTD7, LAMC3, MTO1, RHOBTB2, SCN2A, SCN3A, SLC2A1, SYNGAP1, NPRL3, ad PRRT2 genes.Despite detecting the increasing number of DRE-associated genes, the clinical features of these disorders often overlap, making it difficult to make a systematic diagnosis. Genetic tests, especially WES analysis, significantly increase the rate of original diagnosis in DRE cases. A definite genetic diagnosis is very important in terms of avoiding unnecessary tests, choosing specific treatment, and genetic counseling.Copyright © 2026 Neurology India, Neurological Society of India.
Biallelic pathogenic variants in PNKP are associated with microcephaly and early-onset seizures (MCSZ), ataxia with oculomotor apraxia type 4 and Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2B2.We describe the clinical and neuroimaging features of 27 new patients with PNKP variants. All patients presented with early-onset seizures, congenital microcephaly and intellectual disability. In addition, we compared our results with data in the literature.Twenty-five patients presented with the classic MCSZ phenotype, while two showed a more severe clinical phenotype. The brain imaging features of the 25 patients varied significantly, but widening of the frontal lobe gyri with frontal hypoplasia and prominent cerebellar folia (consistent with atrophy) could point to PNKP-related microcephaly . In contrast, the two patients with severe phenotype showed additional brain MRI features of white matter loss and pontocerebellar hypoplasia fulfilling the criteria of microlissencephaly. Exome sequencing identified seven different PNKP variants, including two novel ones. The c.1253_1269dup p.(Thr424GlyfsTer49) and c.1381_1383dup p.(Asn461dup) variants, each was recurrent in 10 patients (37%), while the c.1381_1383del p.(Asn461del) variant was recurrent in four patients (14.8%). Haplotype analysis confirmed that the p.Asn461dup variant has a founder effect in our population. No genotype-phenotype correlation was observed in our cohort.Our results provide 'microlissencephaly' as an emerging distinct phenotype linked to PNKP variants. As such, PNKP variants could be associated with four overlapping subgroups that lie along a unifying phenotypic continuum.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Exercise protects against colon cancer progression, but the underlying biological mechanisms remain unclear. One proposed mechanism is the release of bioactive molecules into the systemic circulation during exercise, which may act directly on tumour cells to suppress DNA damage, inhibit proliferation, and preserve genomic stability. Here, we profiled the serum proteomic response to acute exercise and evaluated the effects of exercise-conditioned human serum on DNA damage kinetics and transcriptomic signatures in colon cancer cells. Blood samples were collected from 30 overweight/obese adults before and immediately after a maximal incremental cycling test. LoVo cells were exposed to pre- or post-exercise serum, treated with 2 Gy irradiation, and assessed for γ-H2AX foci over 24 h. Acute exercise increased the relative abundance of 13 proteins in serum (p < 0.05), including interleukin-6 (IL-6) and its soluble receptor IL-6R, reflecting systemic activation of acute-phase immune and vascular signalling. Compared to pre-exercise serum, post-exercise serum significantly reduced γ-H2AX foci in LoVo cells at 6 h (p = 0.010) and decreased the area under the curve (p = 0.014), indicating accelerated DNA repair. Post-exercise serum also increased expression of the DNA repair gene PNKP, with and without irradiation (p = 0.007 and p = 0.029, respectively). Transcriptomic analysis revealed upregulation of mitochondrial energy metabolism and downregulation of cell cycle and proteasome-related pathways. These findings suggest that acute exercise elicits systemic responses that enhance DNA repair and shift colon cancer cells towards a less proliferative transcriptomic state under sublethal genotoxic stress, offering a potential mechanistic explanation for the protective effects of exercise against colorectal carcinogenesis.© 2025 The Author(s). International Journal of Cancer published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of UICC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557506 is a review article
Cerebral small vessel diseases (CSVDs) are a group of disorders affecting the small arteries, veins, and capillaries supplying the white matter and deep grey matter structures. They are the most common form of cerebrovascular disease, accounting for approximately half of vascular dementia cases and 20% of stroke incidence. Whilst genetic testing is a routine diagnostic tool for monogenic CSVDs, less than 20% of patients have a causal variant in known CSVD genes. We performed whole exome sequencing on 117 patients suspected of monogenic CSVD who previously tested negative for pathogenic variants in seven well-characterised CSVD genes (NOTCH3, HTRA1, COL4A1, COL4A2, TREX1, GLA, and FOXC1). Targeted analysis was conducted on known and associated CSVD genes, as well as candidate genes which cause conditions with overlapping symptomology to CSVD. Burden analysis focussing on rare, functional variants was used to identify novel associations when compared against a cohort of 1035 non-neurological controls. We identified 18 suspected disease-causing variants across nine CSVD-associated genes and a significant burden of both rare and rare, likely disease-causing heterozygous variants in ABCC6. Two genes from stroke and neurodegenerative disease gene panels also possessed a significant burden of rare, likely disease-causing variants, MYH11 (adjusted P = 1 × 10-2) and NOTCH1 (adjusted P = 1 × 10-2). We further identified novel associations for seven genes (COL7A1, HMCN1, LAMA1, MMP9, TENM4, TNC, TTN) with monogenic CSVD in this cohort. Our findings implicate several genes as potentially causal of monogenic CSVD, highlighting the need for more extensive genetic screening in suspected CSVD cases, and functional characterisation of implicated variants to determine their mechanistic role in CSVD pathogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
The formation of extracellular traps (ETs) through ETosis has emerged as a key mechanism in immunothrombosis. However, the temporal dynamics and clinical significance of ETosis in coronary thrombi of ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) patients remain incompletely understood. We investigated whether ETosis burden increases with thrombus age and is associated with DNASE1 and TREX1 genetic variants as well as impaired myocardial reperfusion. Thrombus aspirates from 81 STEMI patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention were histologically classified as fresh (n = 41) or lytic (n = 40). ETosis was quantified by citrullinated histone H3 (CitH3) immunohistochemistry and digital image analysis, complemented by multiplex staining for myeloperoxidase (MPO), CD68, caspase 3, and CD61. Plasma ET-related markers and genotyping of DNASE1 (rs1053874) and TREX1 (rs11797) were also performed. CitH3-positive cells were present in all thrombi but were more abundant in lytic (older) thrombi compared with fresh thrombi (1348 vs. 591 cells/mm2, p < 0.001). Increased ETosis was associated with neutrophil and macrophage infiltration, apoptosis, prolonged ischemia time, elevated systemic inflammation (neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio and C-reactive protein), and impaired myocardial reperfusion (lower TIMI flow grades). Moreover, the DNASE1 GG genotype was associated with higher densities of MPO- and CD68-positive cells, whereas the TREX1 CC genotype was associated with increased densities of CitH3-, MPO-, and CD68-positive cells. This study demonstrates that ETosis increases with coronary thrombus maturation and is associated with local inflammation and impaired reperfusion in STEMI. Genetic variants in DNASE1 and TREX1 may modulate inflammatory cell accumulation within thrombi. These findings suggest ETosis as a potential therapeutic target, particularly in patients with delayed presentation.
Ischemic stroke stands as a principal driver of global mortality and permanent functional deficits. Notably, the clinical efficacy of current interventions is severely restricted by post-ischemic neuroinflammation. Cerebral ischemic injury prompts an inflammatory surge mediated by the cGAS-STING signaling cascade, a process initiated by the recognition of aberrantly localized cytosolic DNA. Three-prime repair exonuclease 1 (TREX1), a cytosolic DNA exonuclease, negatively regulates STING signaling; however, efficient delivery of TREX1 to the ischemic brain remains a major challenge. Here, we engineered mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles (MSC-EVs) as carriers for TREX1 delivery. This was accomplished by using a palmitoylation signal-fused construct (PALM-TREX1), which enables efficient loading of the protein into extracellular vesicles. The C1C2 domains of lactadherin and the RGD-4C peptide were combined into a single recombinant fusion protein, enabling EV surface functionalization for enhanced ischemic targeting via phosphatidylserine interaction. In a mouse model of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO), RGD-modified TREX1-loaded EVs (RGD-EV-TREX1) preferentially accumulated in ischemic regions, suppressed STING pathway activation, and reduced microglial activation and pro-inflammatory cytokine expression. The reduction in neuronal DNA damage and apoptosis ultimately facilitated improved neurological functional recovery, positioning RGD-EV-TREX1 as a promising cell-free therapeutic strategy for ischemic stroke.
Three-prime Repair EXonuclease 1 (TREX1) is a 3'-to-5' exonuclease that degrades cytoplasmic DNA to prevent aberrant innate immune and inflammatory responses. Loss of TREX1 function results in the accumulation of cytosolic DNA and autoimmune disorders in humans, whereas in cancer cells, TREX1 inhibition can promote antitumor immunity triggered by tumor-derived cytoplasmic DNA. Here, we show selective inhibition of human TREX1 (hTREX1) by small molecule inhibitors and reveal their mechanism of target engagement by X-ray crystallography. The structures show that these inhibitors competitively block the binding of the 3'-terminal nucleotide of DNA substrates and make a hydrogen bond with a conserved Glu residue in the active site. Furthermore, binding of the inhibitors stabilizes Tyr129 of hTREX1 in an alternative conformation incompatible with DNA binding, generating a deep hydrophobic pocket that accommodates a key aromatic moiety of the inhibitors. The structural observations provide the basis for high selectivity of these inhibitors for hTREX1 over the closely related hTREX2 or other viral DEDDh-family nucleases. Our studies demonstrate that the conformational flexibility of the hTREX1 active site plays a crucial role in its selective inhibition, informing future design of hTREX1-selective ligands through this structural framework.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Despite the widespread adoption of chemoimmunotherapy in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), the mechanisms by which cytotoxic chemotherapy engages antitumor immunity remain poorly defined. Identifying tumor-intrinsic immunogenic programs that predict and enhance responsiveness to immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) is therefore of critical clinical importance.Transcriptomic signatures of TREX1 deficiency were generated from CRISPR-engineered TNBC models and applied to multiple independent TNBC cohorts treated with chemoimmunotherapy. Cytosolic single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) accumulation was quantified using a flow cytometry-based assay to functionally screen chemotherapeutic agents. Immune activation and therapeutic efficacy were evaluated using in vitro assays, syngeneic mouse tumor models, flow cytometry, and single-cell RNA sequencing. Statistical analyses included two-sided t tests or Wilcoxon tests, analysis of variance where appropriate, and receiver operating characteristic analyses.An in vivo TREX1-deficiency transcriptional signature, reflecting ssDNA-driven immune programs rather than TREX1 expression alone, robustly predicted clinical response to chemoimmunotherapy across independent TNBC cohorts. Functional screening identified LP-184, an acylfulvene-derived alkylating agent in clinical development, as a potent inducer of cytosolic ssDNA and type I interferon signaling. LP-184 enhanced antigen presentation, reduced immunosuppressive M2-like macrophages, promoted CD8+ T-cell priming, and synergized with anti-programmed cell death protein 1 therapy in vivo. Exogenous ssDNA recapitulated key immunostimulatory effects of LP-184, supporting ssDNA accumulation as a central mechanistic mediator.These findings establish cytosolic ssDNA-driven immune programs as a mechanistic link between DNA damage and antitumor immunity, providing both a predictive biomarker and a therapeutic axis for chemoimmunotherapy. Pharmacologic induction of ssDNA represents a rational strategy to enhance ICB efficacy and expand immunotherapy responsiveness in TNBC.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published by BMJ Group.
To investigate the genetic basis of early-onset systemic lupus erythematosus (EOSLE) in a large Indian pediatric SLE (pSLE) cohort.This prospective observational study investigated monogenic causes in 97 of 365 pSLE patients. Inclusion criteria for the study comprised patients with EOSLE (age ≤8 years) and/or those with a clinical suspicion of monogenic lupus. Monogenic cause was suspected in 97 patients. Genetic screening using targeted next-generation sequencing on the Ion S5 system in 55 of 97 patients [complement defect gene panel in 28 and type 1 interferonopathy gene Interferon (IFN)+ Adaptive Immunity panel in 27] was performed. The remaining 42 patients underwent whole-exome sequencing (WES).Among 97 patients, 22 (22.68%; 11 boys and 11 girls) were found to carry pathogenic variants. Median symptom onset in monogenic cases was 2 years (range: 2 months to 9 years). Monogenic lupus was identified in both EOSLE and older children with strong clinical suspicion. EOSLE patients showed a higher diagnostic yield (28.4%) compared with older children (4.4%). Consanguinity was reported in 7/22 (31.8%) patients. Variants were found in C1QA (n = 7), C1QC (n = 2), C1QB (n = 1), C1R (n = 1), C3 (n = 2), ACP5 (n = 2), STING1, DNASE2, ADAR, TREX1, DNASE1L3, PEPD and SLC7A7 (each n = 1).Monogenic causes were found in at least 6.1% of the overall cohort of pSLE and in 22.7% of genetically screened cases, with the highest yield in EOSLE (28.4%). C1QA was the most common single-gene defect (7.2%). These findings underscore the value of genetic testing in pSLE, especially those with EOSLE or suggestive clinical features.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British Society for Rheumatology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Stimulator of Interferon Genes (STING) is a pivotal adaptor protein in the innate immune pathway, and its aberrant activation is closely associated with the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases. Although it has emerged as an attractive therapeutic target for inflammatory disorders, current STING inhibitors still face challenges including off-target toxicity and limited understanding of binding mechanism. Herein, through a Target & Cell-based cascade screening and rational design, DDO-88109 with a carbazole scaffold is identified as a STING inhibitor, with IC50 values of 1.76 μM and 1.85 μM in THP1-Dual and RAW-Lucia ISG cells, respectively. Moreover, DDO-88109 shows broad affinity for hSTING isoforms (WT, HAQ, and H232) and suppresses the activation of the cGAS-STING signaling pathway with favorable selectivity. Structurally, DDO-88109 occupies the CDN-binding pocket of STING in a 2:1 stoichiometry determined by co-crystal structure study. In TREX1 deficiency driven autoinflammation and cisplatin-induced AKI male mice models, treatment with DDO-88109 (15 mg/kg) significantly reduces the secretion of inflammatory factors and ameliorates tissue inflammation. Collectively, the discovery of DDO-88109 establishes a paradigm for structure-based rational drug development of STING inhibitors to provide potential small-molecule therapeutics against cGAS-STING signaling driven human autoimmune diseases.© 2026. The Author(s).
Electrostatic landscapes within biomolecular condensates are critical regulators of their structural stability and functional plasticity. To quantitatively resolve these elusive electrical signatures, we develop a millisecond Flashing Electrophoretic Separation (msFES) platform enabling nanoliter-scale profiling of biomolecular condensates at near single-droplet resolution-with a focus on zeta potential characterization. Applying msFES to condensates formed by human cytosolic DNA sensor cGAS (hcGAS) and DNA, we unexpectedly discover an intrinsic electrostatic heterogeneity: droplets formed from identical components under identical conditions exhibit two distinct zeta-potential populations. This heterogeneity dictates differential susceptibility to TREX1, an exonuclease that selectively disassembles negatively charged droplets while sparing or amplifying positively charged assemblies, thereby potentially modulating cGAS activation. Pathogenic hcGAS variants (K432T, G303E) disrupt this electrostatic control, rendering hcGAS-DNA droplets hypersensitive to TREX1-mediated DNA degradation. msFES thus uncovers a hidden layer of charge-based regulation in phase-separated systems, potentially linking condensate biophysics to innate immune control.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42222883 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42567849
Low-carbohydrate and low-fat diets (LCDs and LFDs) are promoted for cardiometabolic prevention.This study examined associations of LCDs and LFDs with incident dementia and evaluated modification by genetic susceptibility.We included 5301 dementia-free adults aged ≥55 years from the Health and Retirement Study. Overall LCD and LFD indices were constructed based on macronutrient composition rankings assessed using a food frequency questionnaire in 2013-2014. Plant-based, animal-based, healthy, and unhealthy sub-scores were derived to characterize macronutrient sources and quality. Incident dementia was defined using the Langa-Weir algorithm through 2022. Genetic susceptibility was assessed using APOE genotype and Alzheimer disease polygenic risk score (AD-PRS). Cox models estimated hazard ratios (HRs).During the 9-year follow-up, 506 participants developed dementia. Greater LCD score was associated with lower dementia risk (HR per SD increment 0.90, 95% CI, 0.82, 0.99), whereas an overall LFD was not (1.05, 95% CI, 0.96, 1.15). Plant-based and healthy LCDs showed stronger inverse associations (0.85, 95% CI, 0.78, 0.94 and 0.82, 95% CI, 0.74, 0.90), while higher animal-based (1.10; 95% CI, 1.00, 1.20) and unhealthy LFDs (1.13; 95% CI, 1.04, 1.24) were linked to higher dementia risk. Associations were consistent across APOE genotype and AD-PRS strata. Higher plant-based and healthy LCDs were also associated with better global and domain-specific cognitive performance.Adherence to LCDs, particularly plant-based and higher-quality LCDs, was associated with lower dementia risk, consistently across genetic susceptibility strata. These findings underscored the importance of macronutrient quality, in addition to quantity, in promoting cognitive health.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) and ovarian cancer share many molecular features and are primarily treated with surgical resection and aggressive chemotherapy regimens. Unfortunately, survival rates for patients with advanced metastatic disease are poor, highlighting the need for innovative therapeutic approaches.Using the DepMap database, we first sought to identify genes that were highly expressed and more essential for proliferation/viability in TNBC cells relative to other breast cancer subtypes. Candidate genes were validated using gene-specific siRNAs in a panel of TNBC and estrogen receptor positive breast cancer cells. CTPS1 expression, and its functional significance, was further evaluated in ovarian cancer models, including chemotherapy- and PARP inhibitor-resistant cell lines. Pharmacologic inhibition was assessed using STP938, a first-in-class selective CTPS1 inhibitor, in TNBC and ovarian cancer cells as well as in ex vivo and in vivo patient-derived xenografts (PDX).Six genes (CTPS1, HUS1, PRKRA, RAD1, RAD9A, and RHOA) were identified as potential TNBC selective dependencies. Among these, CTPS1 was prioritized for further study given that it was highly expressed, further upregulated in chemotherapy- and PARP inhibitor-resistant cell lines, and resulted in the greatest anti-neoplastic effects when depleted. Knockdown of CTPS1 confirmed its selective essentiality and resulted in rapid and durable S-phase cell cycle arrest. Pharmacologic inhibition of CTPS1 with STP938 led to robust anti-neoplastic effects at nM concentrations across both chemotherapy-sensitive and -resistant TNBC and ovarian cancer cell lines. Significant anti-neoplastic activity was observed in 6 independent ex vivo ovarian cancer PDX models. Further, STP938 significantly inhibited progression of an ovarian cancer PDX model in vivo.These findings identify CTPS1 as a critical dependency in TNBC and ovarian cancer. Selective pharmacologic inhibition of CTPS1 using STP938 is a potent inhibitor of tumor cell proliferation/viability and has anti-cancer activity in patient derived ex vivo and in vivo tumor models. These findings suggest that therapeutic targeting of CTPS1 represents an alternative approach for the management of patients with advanced and aggressive forms of these diseases.© The author(s).
Desmoid-type fibromatosis of the breast is an uncommon, low-grade mesenchymal neoplasm with benign histologic features, characterized by locally aggressive growth and a notable tendency for local recurrence. Clinical management is challenging owing to frequent positive surgical margins, a propensity for recurrence, and the absence of standardized treatment guidelines. We report the case of a 34-year-old woman who underwent mastectomy for recurrent breast desmoid-type fibromatosis, in whom a heterozygous germline MUTYH (MutY DNA glycosylase) variant was identified through hereditary cancer panel testing. This case highlights the potential value of comprehensive pathologic assessment and selective germline genetic testing in patients with recurrent breast fibromatosis, which may offer further insight into tumor biology and inform individualized management strategies.Copyright © 2026, Kucuk et al.
All individuals with colorectal cancer (CRC) should undergo genetic cancer risk assessment given its implications for personalized treatment, surveillance, risk-reduction strategies, and cascade testing. Universal screening using immunohistochemistry (IHC) for mismatch repair (MMR) proteins in tumor tissue, when combined with clinical criteria, is essential for identifying individuals at higher risk for carrying germline pathogenic variants (PVs) in resource limited countries.The spectrum of PVs in cancer susceptibility genes was characterized using NGS multigene panel assays among selected patients with CRC at two centers in Mexico. Germline genetic testing was used as the reference standard to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of the referral criteria.From September 2018 to October 2024, 208 patients were enrolled. The median age at diagnosis was 45.0 years; 52.4% were women, 48.6% had deficient-MMR CRC, and 38.0% reported family history of CRC. Germline PVs were identified in 32.2% (n = 67); of these, 77.6% (n = 52) had Lynch syndrome (30 MLH1, 14 MSH2, 6 MSH6, and 2 PMS2), while 22.4% (n = 15) harbored PVs in other genes (4 ATM, 3 BRCA1, 3 CHEK2, 2 TP53, 1 BRCA2, 1 BRIP1, and 1 PALB2). Additionally, one individual harbored a monoallelic PV in MUTYH. The Amsterdam II criteria demonstrated the highest specificity (Sensitivity 56.0%, Specificity 91.9%), while the revised Bethesda criteria (Sensitivity 98.1%, Specificity 19.9%) and IHC for MMR proteins (Sensitivity 91.2%, Specificity 68.7%) exhibited high sensitivity. The area under the ROC curve for PREMM5 was 0.822 (95% CI 0.746-0.898).PREMM5, Revised Bethesda criteria and IHC for MMR proteins effectively prioritized patients eligible for germline genetic testing in resource-limited settings. The performance of PREMM5 in this Mexican cohort was comparable to findings reported in validation studies within other populations. Considering the spectrum of PVs identified, employing a multigene panel test is recommended for Mexican patients with CRC.Copyright: © 2026 Rodríguez-Olivares et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Parvovirus B19 (B19V), a member of the genus Erythroparvovirus within the Parvoviridae family, infects human erythroid progenitor cells (EPCs) of bone marrow and fetal liver and causes various hematological disorders. The minor capsid protein VP1 of B19V contains a unique N-terminal region (VP1u) that facilitates virus binding and internalization into EPCs via its receptor-binding domain (RBD). We previously identified tyrosine-protein kinase receptor UFO (AXL) as a proteinaceous receptor for B19V infection of EPCs. In this study, we employed an ascorbate peroxidase 2 (APEX2)-based proximity labeling method to identify host proteins that are associated with B19V VP1u during entry. This analysis revealed human transferrin receptor 1 (hTfR) as a key host protein associated with VP1u. hTfR knockdown in UT7/Epo-S1 cells, a B19V-permissive human megakaryoblastoid leukemia cell line, showed significantly reduced B19V internalization and replication. Biolayer interferometry (BLI) assays confirmed a direct interaction between B19V VP1u and hTfR extracellular domain (ECD). Inhibition of VP1u interaction with hTfR ECD, either by a monoclonal antibody targeting the apical domain of the ECD or human ferritin, a natural ligand of hTfR that binds the apical domain, significantly reduced VP1u binding to hTfR, as well as B19V internalization and B19V replication in ex vivo-expanded EPCs. Furthermore, mutant RBD proteins that bear amino acid substitutions in the three helical domains nearly abolished RBD binding to hTfR and significantly reduced the ability to inhibit B19V infection of EPCs. Collectively, our findings establish hTfR as a B19V entry co-receptor that mediates B19V internalization into its natural host EPCs.IMPORTANCEB19V causes severe hematological disorders, including transient aplastic crisis, chronic pure red cell aplasia, and hydrops fetalis, by selectively infecting erythroid progenitor cells (EPCs). Despite its clinical impact, no approved antivirals or vaccines exist, largely due to limited understanding of viral entry mechanisms. A unique feature of B19V is the externalization of the VP1 unique region (VP1u) from the viral capsid, which mediates receptor engagement. Our prior studies identified AXL as a co-receptor for B19V infection of EPCs. Here, we identify that human transferrin receptor 1 (hTfR) as a critical co-receptor that directly binds VP1u and promotes viral internalization. Inhibition of the VP1u-hTfR interaction by competitive binding of hTfR with either an anti-hTfR monoclonal antibody or human ferritin significantly reduces B19V internalization and replication in ex vivo-expanded EPCs, highlighting a link between VP1u binding to the apical domain of hTfR and viral internalization. RBD mutants that disrupt its interaction with hTfR barely inhibited B19V infection in EPCs. These findings support a model in which hTfR directly engages VP1u and promotes B19V internalization into EPCs. Defining these mechanisms provides a foundation for developing antiviral strategies targeting B19V entry into EPCs.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) arises from complex interactions among genetic, clinical, and social determinants of health (SDoH) risk factors, yet their independent contributions to underlying AD pathophysiology remain elusive.To quantify the effects of risk factors across amyloid (Aβ)/tau, neurodegeneration, and cognition.Cross-sectional analysis using structural equation modeling (SEM).Health and Aging Brain Study-Health Disparities (HABS-HD), a community-based cohort study.A total of 2,276 participants with demographics, genetic, clinical, and biomarker data from the baseline visit.APOE ε4 carrier status, AD polygenic risk score (AD-PRS), clinical risk score (CogDRisk), and a social determinants of health (SDoH) latent score derived using factor analysis.Latent variables representing Aβ/tau pathology (plasma pTau 181 , plasma pTau 217 /Aβ 42 , amyloid PET positivity, and global standardized uptake value ratio), neurodegeneration (plasma neurofilament light, cortical thickness, hippocampal volume), and cognition (memory, executive, and language tests) were modeled and regressed on AD latent variables using SEM adjusted for age, sex, genetic principal components, and spoken language.The total analytic sample included 2,276 participants (mean age: 65.3 ± 8.7; non-Hispanic White: 43.0%, non-Hispanic Black: 16.2%, and Latinx/Hispanic adults: 40.8%). APOE ε4 was strongly associated with worse Aβ/tau latent variable (β=0.31; p<0.001), with smaller but significant associations with neurodegeneration (β=0.085; p<0.001) and cognition (β=0.083; p<0.001). Higher AD-PRS was modestly associated with worse Aβ/tau (β=0.075; p<0.01) but was not associated with neurodegeneration or cognition. A higher clinical risk score was significantly associated with worse neurodegeneration (β=0.16; p<0.001) but not with Aβ/tau or cognition. Adverse SDoH was associated with worse neurodegeneration (β=0.071; p<0.05) and strongly associated with worse cognition (β=0.22; p<0.001), with no associations with Aβ/tau.Genetic risks were primarily associated with Aβ and tau pathology, clinical risks with neurodegeneration, and SDoH risks with cognition, suggesting that risk factors exert differential effects on AD pathophysiology. Future studies investigating additional risk factors and their longitudinal associations with AD pathophysiological changes are warranted.Questions: Do Alzheimer's disease (AD) risk factors differentially influence underlying AD pathophysiological processes, and do these associations vary across demographic subgroups?Findings: Genetic and genomic risk burdens demonstrated the strongest associations with amyloid and tau pathology; clinical risk burden with neurodegeneration; and adverse social determinants of health with cognition.Meaning: Because of the differential effects of risk factors on the underlying AD pathophysiology, a one-size-fits-all approach to AD risk prediction and prevention is insufficient. AD risk assessment should leverage multidomain frameworks incorporating genomic, clinical, and social determinants of health information to better inform disease development and progression.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified 80+ genetic loci associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD), enabling the development of polygenic risk scores (PRS). However, the predictive accuracy of PRS in diverse populations remains low. Here, we evaluated the predictive accuracy of single-, multi-, and cross-ancestry AD-PRS models across multi-ancestral populations.We used AD GWAS summary statistics from European, African, Admixed American, and East Asian populations to construct AD-PRS for each target population. Model performance was assessed by estimating odds ratios, R2, and area under the curve.The cross-ancestry Bayesian PRS model demonstrated the highest predictive performance in non-European populations. It was significantly associated with poorer cognitive function, lower Aβ42 cerebrospinal fluid levels, and the most severe category of Aβ and tau neuropathological burden.Inclusive genetic datasets and cross-ancestry PRS models are needed to enhance the transportability of AD-PRS across multi-ancestral populations.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Eukaryotic genomic DNA is packaged into chromatin as nucleosomes, where it remains susceptible to reactive oxygen species (ROS) that generate the mutagenic lesion 8-oxo-7,8-dihydroguanine (8oxoG). While 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase 1 (OGG1) can initiate repair of 8oxoG base paired with C within the nucleosome core particle (NCP) in a position- dependent manner, it is unknown whether MutY homolog (MUTYH), the DNA glycosylase that excises misincorporated A opposite 8oxoG, can initiate repair of 8oxoG:A base pairs within NCPs. To address this, we combined cryo-EM, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, and biochemical assays. We determined that MUTYH activity on nucleosomal 8oxoG:A is strongly suppressed, with detectable excision limited to the entry/exit region. Cryo-EM structures at four superhelical locations reveal that 8oxoG adopts the syn conformation and Hoogsteen base pairs with A, as in non-nucleosomal DNA, indicating that lesion presentation is not altered by the histone octamer. MD simulations further reveal that 8oxoG:A base pair dynamics and local DNA backbone perturbations are similar in nucleosomal and non-nucleosomal DNA. Together, these data establish that the NCP sterically excludes MUTYH from 8oxoG:A base pairs, making them largely inaccessible to MUTYH processing. This work ultimately provides mechanistic insight for the elevated G to T transversion rate observed in histone-bound DNA following oxidative stress.
Background: Game-based learning (GBL) and active engagement strategies have shown promise in health professions education; however, their application in foundational basic science courses, which serve as critical academic gatekeepers in professional pharmacy programs, remains underexplored. Objective: This study evaluated the effect of a multimodal suite of faculty-developed, web-based GBL activities and active engagement strategies on academic performance, learning management system (LMS) engagement, and student perceptions in a required first-year (P1) pharmacy biochemistry course. Methods: A cross-sectional, descriptive study was conducted with 117 P1 pharmacy students. Game-based activities (including Jeopardy, Rapid Fire, and Crossword Puzzle games) were developed using WiscOnline and deployed via Blackboard alongside pre-class activities, a Workbook, and a Padlet discussion board. Engagement was measured via LMS access metrics, academic performance via examination scores, and perceptions via an end-of-semester anonymous Poll Everywhere survey. Results: The cohort achieved a mean examination score of 81.59%, with 83.8% earning a passing grade. A positive association was observed between game access frequency and grade group performance (R2 = 0.8241), though individual-level correlations did not reach statistical significance. Student perceptions were overwhelmingly positive, with over 90% of respondents agreeing that GBL activities were enjoyable, facilitated learning, and provided valuable practice opportunities. Conclusions: Low-cost, faculty-developed GBL tools can be successfully integrated into foundational pharmacy science courses, yielding high engagement and positive student perceptions. These findings underscore the importance of extending active learning research to foundational basic science courses and offer a replicable model for health professions programs seeking to enhance student engagement at this critical curricular stage.
SMARCA4-deficient undifferentiated tumors (SMARCA4-dUT) have been included in the latest WHO classification of tumors. This study examined the cytomorphology, management, molecular features and prognosis of malignancies harboring SMARCA4 alterations.Biopsied cytologic slides were reviewed. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) and clinical data were analyzed.Thirty-four cases with SMARCA4 alterations were identified, including 13 primary and 21 metastatic tumors, sampled primarily from lung (35%), lymph nodes (26%) and liver (15%). Tumor origins were predominantly the lung (61%) and gallbladder (9%). The most common tumor type was adenocarcinoma (70%). Predominant architectures included nested, single-cell, tubular/acinar, and 3D clusters. Cells were most commonly round and columnar, with medium cytoplasm mostly showing vacuoles and granular features. Nuclear grade 2-3 was seen in 93% of cases, with prominent nucleoli and coarse chromatin. SMARCA4 alteration included mutations (32) and loss (2). These tumors are characterized by a high co-mutation burden, including TP53 (62%), KRAS (35%), and STK11 (15%). Prognosis is further modulated by allelic status (biallelic vs. monoallelic vs. subclonal), and mutations in DDR pathway (24%). Most tumors presented as stage IV. 26% received surgical resection. Overall, 74% underwent chemotherapy and 29% radiotherapy. Mean follow-up was 17 months, with 2-year OS of 49.1%. Twenty-three (68%) patients were current or former smokers.SMARCA4-altered malignancies show diverse differentiation and lack consistent cytomorphologic features. Majority of cases were differentiated malignancies and only four cases (12%) were undifferentiated, suggesting SMARCA4 alterations were associated with poor prognosis but were not exclusive drivers of undifferentiated malignancy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and acute myeloid leukemias (AML) harboring TP53 mutations are defined by extreme genomic instability, complex karyotypes (CK), and poor prognosis. While large-scale chromosomal imbalances are common in CK-MDS/AML, the synergy between focal amplifications of signaling drivers and the disruption of transcriptional regulators remains poorly elucidated.We performed a comprehensive clinical, cytogenetic (GTG-banding, M-FISH, M-Band), and molecular (targeted FISH, NGS) analysis of seven patients with MDS and AML characterized by a recurrent and distinct genomic signature.All cases exhibited highly complex karyotypes on a TP53-mutated background. We identified high-level focal amplifications of EPOR (19p13.2) and JAK2 (9p24.1), predominantly manifesting as homogeneously staining regions (HSRs) or complex "sandwich-like" derivative chromosomes. Notably, these signaling alterations consistently co-occurred with monoallelic deletions of the TCF3 (E2A) tumor suppressor (19p13.3) and copy number gains of the ERG transcription factor (21q22). Detailed structural analysis indicates that TCF3 loss likely arises as a structural consequence of chromosome 19 rearrangements driving EPOR amplification. Based on this data, we propose a conceptual model of leukemogenesis where EPOR/JAK2 co-amplification potentially drives constitutive JAK2/STAT5 signaling, while concurrent ERG gain and TCF3 haploinsufficiency contribute to maturation delay. TP53 deficiency appears to be the primary permissive factor enabling the stabilization of these massive structural rearrangements.Our findings outline a recurrent and biologically coherent genomic pattern within the spectrum of TP53-mutated myeloid neoplasms, demonstrating significant phenotypic overlap with erythroid leukemia features in a subset of cases. Given the small cohort size, these findings are hypothesis-generating. However, this convergence of predicted JAK2/STAT5 pathway hyperactivation and transcriptional disinhibition points to a theoretical therapeutic vulnerability that warrants prospective validation in larger collaborative studies.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Pancreatic cancer (PC) is known to be a highly fatal malignancy, and elucidating new molecular mechanisms is of great importance. In this study, we investigated NECTIN4 (PVRL4), which is associated with poor prognosis, via bioinformatics approach. We used following tools and datasets: For differential gene expression analysis, TCGA TARGET GTEx study on UCSC Xena, GSE183795, GSE71729 and GSE196009 GEO datasets; for associations with clinicopathological and promoter methylation features, UALCAN; for correlations with overall survival (OS), disease-free survival (DFS) gene chip database, and for correlations with OS and relapse-free survival (RFS) RNAseq database in the Kaplan-Meier (KM) plotter; for correlations with OS and Progression-Free Interval (PFI), DoSurvive; for immune infiltration correlations, TIMER3; for expression changes in hotspot mutations, GEPIA 3; for potentially related pathways, diseases, and processes, the Gscore online tool; for gene alterations detections, cBioPortal; and identifying potential targeting miRNAs, miRDB, TargetScanHuman 8.0, ENCORI, and DoSurvive. NECTIN4 (PVRL4) is upregulated in primary pancreatic adenocarcinoma in TCGA TARGET GTEx study (log2FC=2.015633, adj.P.Val=4.62E-21) and in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas in GSE183795 (log2FC=0.726, adj.P.Val=10-16.895) GSE196009 (log2FC=2.807, adj.P.Val=10-3.855) GSE71729 (log2FC= 1.227, adj.P.Val=10-10.318) datasets, and may be associated with unfavorable OS (p = 3.63E-02) and PFI (p = 8.09E-03) independent of age at diagnosis, sex, and stage in DoSurvive. In KM plotter RNA seq database, increased NECTIN4 (PVRL4) expression was statistically significantly associated only with shortened OS (p = 0.008). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) expressions are higher in the following traits than in others: In Asians compared to normals (p = 4.949700E-02) and Caucasian (p = 4.480000E-03); in chronic pancreatitis patients from normals (p=3.456300E-02); in grade 2 (p = 2.420600E-04) and grade 3 (p = 1.875500E-03) from grade 1; in TP53 mutants from nonmutants (p = 7.6379999999987E-05). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) correlates positively or negatively with many immune cell types, some of which are also associated with OS. NECTIN4 is upregulated in KRAS (log2FC=1.78, p = 1.05E-17), TP53 (log2FC=0.959, p = 1.22E-05), SMAD4 (log2FC=1.02, p = 0.000111), CDKN2A (log2FC=0.668, p = 0.0144), and RNF43 (log2FC=0.917, p = 0.0393) mutant samples. NECTIN4 (PVRL4) is associated with many pathways, processes, and diseases these may be related to PC. Six patients have amplification, and one patient has a splice mutation. hsa-miR-329-3p and hsa-miR-5586-5p may be potential negative regulatory miRNAs of NECTIN4 (PVRL4). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) may be associated with many pathways awaiting experimental illumination in PC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) is an aggressive malignancy with limited molecular characterization in advanced disease. FGFR3 alterations are well established in low-grade urothelial carcinoma, but their prevalence, stability, and biological significance in locally advanced and metastatic UTUC remain only partially defined. We performed an integrated morphologic, immunohistochemical, and molecular analysis of 24 locally advanced and/or metastatic UTUC from 20 patients. FGFR3 status was assessed by RT-PCR across multiple tumor compartments, including biopsies, primary tumors, lymph-node metastases, and distant metastatic sites. Immunohistochemistry included CK20, CK5, GATA3, p53, and mismatch repair proteins. Targeted next-generation sequencing (NGS) was used to characterize co-occurring genomic alterations and to assess concordance with p53 immunophenotype. FGFR3 alterations were identified in 50% of patients and in 54.2% of analyzed tumors. FGFR3 status showed high intra-patient stability, with concordance between primary tumors and distant metastases in 90% of cases, whereas concordance with lymph node metastases was lower (50%), suggesting site-specific clonal divergence. Despite advanced stage, 92.3% of FGFR3-altered tumors displayed papillary urothelial carcinoma morphology, and most showed a luminal immunophenotype (61.5% by CK20/CK5 and 69.2% by GATA3/CK5). Targeted NGS revealed additional pathogenic alterations in 75% of patients, most frequently involving RTK/RAS/MAPK signaling (70%), cell-cycle regulation (25%), and PI3K/AKT pathway components (10%). TP53 mutations co-occurred with FGFR3 alterations in 60% of FGFR3-mutated patients and showed 90.4% concordance with p53 immunohistochemistry. Finally, a few cases exhibited complex, multi-site FGFR3 mutational patterns, consistent with intratumoral clonal evolutions. In conclusion, FGFR3 alterations are frequent and remarkably stable in advanced UTUC, even in high-grade and metastatic disease. These findings support the reliability of FGFR3 testing on limited diagnostic material and reinforce its relevance for therapeutic stratification. UTUC emerges as a molecularly dynamic disease in which early oncogenic drivers such as FGFR3 continue to shape tumor biology and therapeutic vulnerability at advanced stages.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Motivated by the rising incidence of cancers at younger ages, this study compares tumor genomic alterations between adolescents and young adults (AYAs; 18-39 years) and non-AYAs (40 years and older) and explores the relationship with continuous age in patients with relapsed/refractory ovarian, breast, and colorectal cancers accrued to the NCI-MATCH trial.Tumor genomic profiles generated by a next-generation sequencing 143-gene panel (NCI-MATCH assay, v2) were analyzed for association with age (AYA/total: 21/455 ovarian, 27/576 breast, 43/759 colorectal cancers). For each gene, AYA and non-AYA DNA alteration proportions were compared (Fisher exact test) and alteration association with continuous age (logistic regression) was evaluated (false discovery rate‑adjusted P value <.1 statistically significant). For colorectal cancer, sex-stratified analysis was also performed.No significant AYA versus non-AYA differences were observed in the prevalence of gene mutations (single nucleotide variant [SNV]/indel). A significant association of gene amplification with AYAs (odds ratio [OR], 95% CI) was CCND1 (0.2, 0.1-0.4), favoring AYAs in breast cancer. Examining age as a continuous variable, significant associations of gene mutations (SNV/indel) with older age, expressed as 5-year OR (OR [95% CI]), were observed: TP53 (1.3 [1.1 to 1.4]), ovarian cancer; CDH1 (1.4 [1.2 to 1.6]) and PIK3CA (1.1 [1.1 to 1.2]), breast cancer; and BRAF (1.4 [1.2 to 1.7]), female colorectal cancer. Associations with younger age included SMAD4 (0.8 [0.7 to 0.9]), male colorectal cancer. Significant associations of gene amplification with age (continuous) were as follows: CCNE1 (1.3 [1.1 to 1.6]), older ovarian cancer, and CCND1 (0.8 [0.8 to 0.9]), younger breast cancer.Comparing AYAs with non-AYAs among patients having relapsed/refractory disease, no significant differences in SNV/indel prevalence were observed, but CCND1 amplifications were more prevalent in AYA breast cancer. For several genes, DNA alterations were associated with continuous age and may depend on sex in colorectal cancer.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566728 is a review article
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a chronic, progressive lung disease characterized by persistent alveolar epithelial injury and aberrant tissue remodeling. Increasing evidence suggests that senescence of alveolar epithelial cells (AECs) contributes to impaired epithelial regeneration and maladaptive tissue repair by limiting reparative capacity and promoting profibrotic signaling. However, the molecular drivers of AEC senescence and their impact on the immune microenvironment in IPF remain incompletely understood. Here, we investigated senescence-associated genes involved in IPF pathogenesis and evaluated their diagnostic and therapeutic potential. IPF transcriptomic datasets were retrieved from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). Senescence-related differentially expressed genes (SRDEGs) were identified by intersecting IPF-derived differentially expressed genes with a curated human senescence gene list. Functional enrichment analyses were performed to delineate SRDEG-associated biological processes. Hub genes were prioritized using machine-learning approaches, and a diagnostic model was constructed and assessed by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. Candidate genes were further validated through in vivo and in vitro experiments. Given the upstream regulatory role of CHEK2 in DNA damage response-associated cellular senescence, Fostamatinib was screened as a potential therapeutic agent, and its interaction with CHEK2 and functional effects were examined using molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and experimental assays. Two senescence-associated hub genes, CHEK2 and TP53 BP1, were identified as key contributors to IPF pathology (FDR-adjusted P < 0.05), and a model incorporating both genes achieved high diagnostic performance. Experimental validation, however, indicated that only CHEK2 showed IPF-specific differential expression and was closely associated with AEC senescence and fibrotic progression. In silico analyses supported stable binding between Fostamatinib and CHEK2, and subsequent molecular and cellular experiments suggested that Fostamatinib may attenuate CHEK2-associated senescence and profibrotic responses. Collectively, these findings identify CHEK2 as a critical regulator of AEC senescence and IPF development, supporting its potential use as a diagnostic biomarker and therapeutic target. Fostamatinib may represent a candidate therapeutic strategy for IPF by modulating CHEK2-related senescence pathways.Copyright: © 2026 Ding et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566056 is a review article
Pathogenic and likely pathogenic (P/LP) germline variants in cancer susceptibility genes (CSGs) are detected in 5-10% of patients with prostate cancer, but their clinical impact in high-risk disease remains unclear.This study aimed to assess the prevalence of P/LP variants in CSGs among patients with high-risk prostate cancer and their association with oncologic outcomes in patients treated with radiotherapy.We conducted a retrospective study of 600 men with high-risk prostate cancer. Germline DNA was analyzed using a 19-gene panel, and gene-level variant prevalence was compared with non-cancer control cohorts using Fisher's exact test. Time-to-event analyses were performed in the 390 patients treated with radiotherapy as primary curative intent. The primary endpoint was overall survival (OS), assessed by Kaplan-Meier and multivariable Cox regression. Secondary endpoints included biochemical recurrence, distant metastasis, prostate cancer-specific mortality (PCSM), and second primary malignancies, analyzed using cumulative incidence functions and Fine-Gray competing-risk models.P/LP variants were identified in 8.0% of patients (n = 48). CHEK2, ATM, and BRCA2 variants were significantly enriched in patients compared with non-cancer control cohorts. BRCA1/BRCA2 carriers had worse OS (10-yr OS rate: 19% vs 57%; p = 0.021) and higher cumulative incidence of biochemical recurrence events (10-yr cumulative incidence: 57% vs 28%; p = 0.048), distant metastases (57% vs 18%; p = 0.004) and PCSM (33% vs 4.3%; p = 0.001) compared with non-carriers. CHEK2 carriers showed heterogeneous family cancer histories and a higher incidence of second primary malignancies (47% vs 15%; p = 0.003). ATM carriers showed no metastatic progression or PCSM during follow-up. Limitations include the single-institution design and small gene-specific subgroups.Germline P/LP variants are prevalent in high-risk prostate cancer and define gene-specific subgroups with distinct oncologic outcomes, supporting the role of germline genetic testing in risk stratification and treatment decision-making.© 2026 The Authors.
Identifying clinical and genomic predictors of response to androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) and androgen receptor pathway inhibitors (ARPI) for metastatic androgen pathway modulator sensitive (APMS) prostate cancer is essential for improving therapeutic decision-making. Divergent outcomes are observed in practice, with some achieving exceptional responses (ER) while others experience early resistance or non-response (NR), the biologic basis of which remains unclear.A retrospective review was conducted of patients with APMS prescribed ADT/ARPI from 2015-2024. ER and NR were defined by upper ( > 53.36 months) and lower ( < 10.41 months) quartiles of progression-free survival (PFS). Objectives were to associate baseline genomic and clinical factors with ER/NR status, PFS, overall survival (OS) and PSA kinetics..Among 3363 prescribed ADT/ARPI, 224 were treated for APMS, with 154 (69%) undergoing temporal molecular testing. Alteration of ≥1 tumor suppressor gene with or without proliferative gene co-alteration was associated with NR while no single alteration predicted achieving ER. ECOG < 1, lack of pain, low-volume disease, higher hemoglobin and albumin, and normal alkaline phosphatase were associated with improved PFS, OS, and PSA nadir <0.2 ng/mL at 12 months. Alterations in TP53 (HR 1.60 [95%CI 1.02-2.50], p = 0.039; HR 1.91 [95%CI 1.05-3.49], p = 0.035) and MYC (HR 2.01 [95%CI 1.03-3.91], p = 0.040; HR 3.81 [95%CI 1.81-7.99], p < 0.001) were associated with inferior PFS and OS, while BRCA2 (HR 2.12 [95%CI 1.02-4.42], p = 0.045) additionally associated with PFS, and RAD21 (HR 2.55 [95%CI 1.13-5.77], p = 0.024) with OS. On multivariable analysis, MYC gain associated with OS (HR 4.41 [95%CI 1.24-15.7], p = 0.022). Pathway-level analysis showed proliferative gene alterations were associated with failure to achieve PSA nadir <0.2 ng/mL at 12 months (HR 0.49 [95%CI 0.24, 0.98], p = 0.047).In this real-world APMS cohort, we identified pre-treatment clinical and genomic predictors of patient benefits and long-term survival with ADT/ARPI therapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Accurate classification of missense variants remains a challenging task despite major advances in genomics. Numerous computational models have been developed to assist in variant classification, but often require repeated integration and benchmarking efforts. Ensemble methods have been proposed to overcome the limitations of single predictors, but mostly rely on fixed, predefined weights that constrain their ability to capture interactions among predictive signals.We present GenixRL, a dynamic ensemble framework that reformulates model fusion as a reinforcement learning optimization problem. GenixRL uses a Q-learning agent to learn a policy that dynamically weights the probabilistic outputs of complementary predictors, including BayesDel (addAF and noAF), ClinPred, and MetaRNN. Replacing static weighting with policy learning allows GenixRL to adaptively identify optimal weightings and substantially improve classification accuracy.In benchmark evaluation against 25 state-of-the-art predictors, GenixRL achieved an AUROC of 0.9644 on an independent ClinVar dataset. On saturation genome editing assays for BRCA1 and BRCA2, GenixRL achieved the best performance and ranked highest on 14 of 17 clinically significant genes in a zero-shot evaluation. Applied to uncertain and conflicting ClinVar variants, GenixRL enabled tiered, evidence-based prioritization of hundreds of thousands of variants as likely pathogenic or pathogenic with high confidence, supported by orthogonal population evidence from gnomAD.GenixRL advances pathogenicity prediction for missense variants and provides an adaptive ensemble that sorts variants of uncertain significance into tiered candidates for expert curation and functional validation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
This study investigated the associations between tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), genomic features, and prognosis in HER2+ early breast cancer (EBC) patients receiving adjuvant trastuzumab.We retrospectively analyzed 864 HER2+ EBC patients from Shanghai Ruijin Hospital (2009-2017). The optimal threshold of TILs for predicting disease free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) was explored. Whole-exome sequencing (WES) on 261 tumors assessed the mutational profiles, tumor mutational burden (TMB), and copy number alteration (CNA). Associations of these genomic features, TILs levels and prognosis were further evaluated.TILs showed a right-skewed distribution (median 15%, IQR 1-30%), and higher TILs were significantly associated with hormone receptor negativity and high histologic grade (p < 0.001). A 15% TILs threshold optimally predicted prognosis, with low TILs (≤15%, 63.0%) patients showing inferior DFS (HR 1.63, p = 0.009) and OS (HR 2.12, p = 0.037). WES identified frequent mutations in TP53 (62.8%), PIK3CA (34.5%), and BRCA2 (9.6%). Higher TILs density was observed in TP53-wild-type, low-TMB or low-CNA tumors (p < 0.05). PIK3CA mutations conferred a significant DFS advantage. Integrating TILs level with PIK3CA or BRCA2 mutational status yielded distinct DFS trajectories (log-rank p = 0.023 and 0.040, respectively); patients with both high TILs and either PIK3CA or BRCA2 mutations had the most favorable outcomes.Stromal TILs at a 15% cut-off provide robust prognostic information in trastuzumab-treated HER2+ EBC. Integrating TILs levels with PIK3CA or BRCA2 mutational status enables refined risk stratification, offering a practical framework for personalized treatment decisions.© the author(s).
Mutations in the breast cancer susceptibility gene 2 (BRCA2) are well known to increase the risk of breast and ovarian cancers. Emerging evidence indicates that BRCA2 mutation carriers exhibit increased vascular disorder and may develop endothelial dysfunction, a key mechanism underlying hypertension. Angiotensin II (Ang II)﻿, a central effector of the renin-angiotensin system, is a key regulator of blood pressure and a major driver of hypertension, promoting endothelial injury through oxidative stress, inflammation, and impaired nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability. However, the role of endothelial BRCA2 in Ang II-induced endothelial dysfunction remains unknown.BRCA2 was silenced in cultured endothelial cells and following Ang II treatment, ROS generation, DNA damage, apoptosis, inflammation, NO production, migration, angiogenic capacity, Ang II receptors and related signaling pathways were assessed.BRCA2 deficiency exacerbated Ang II-induced increases in ROS, DNA damage, and apoptosis, along with impaired functional capacity, including reduced migration and angiogenesis. NO production was suppressed, accompanied by increased micronuclei formation and enhanced c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) activation. In addition, both BRCA2 loss and Ang II treatment upregulated the Ang II receptor AT1R. Pharmacological inhibition of AT1R attenuated Ang II-induced increases in DNA damage and apoptosis in BRCA2-deficient endothelial cells.These findings provide the first pharmacogenomic evidence that BRCA2 deficiency sensitizes endothelial cells to Ang II-induced dysfunction, suggesting that BRCA2 mutation carriers may be at increased risk for hypertension-associated cardiovascular complications.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Management of recurrent high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC) remains a challenge. This case presents a successful multimodal treatment plan in a BRCA-mutated patient with repeated recurrences.A 60-year-old woman diagnosed with FIGO stage III HGSOC received initial debulking surgery followed by chemotherapy at another hospital in December 2017. The patient presented to our institution in March 2019 for further management because of a suboptimal response to 2nd-line chemotherapy. A disseminated disease extent was identified. She progressed (new bone metastasis) during the 3rd- to 5th-line platinum-based chemotherapy, but achieved complete remission after changing to pembrolizumab and weekly paclitaxel. She had a 3rd relapse at the anterior mediastinum (proven by thoracoscopic resection in April 2020, and the tumor was found to harbor a BRCA2 heterozygous deletion), which was controlled by adjuvant radiotherapy combined with nivolumab and nab-paclitaxel, followed by maintenance therapy nivolumab plus olaparib, and eventually olaparib monotherapy. A 4th recurrence at the perigastric lymph nodes was found through periodic positron emission tomography surveillance with normal CA-125 in September 2021. Resection of metastasis and hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) were performed, and maintenance therapy was again with olaparib. She has maintained remission since then.A durable remission is possible by multimodality management, including the strategic use of chemo-immunotherapy, localized resection plus HIPEC/adjuvant radiotherapy, and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor maintenance, in BRCAm-HGSOC with multiple recurrences.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Multiple germline variants are associated with prostate cancer (PCa) susceptibility and aggressive features; however, their value for predicting prostate cancer-specific mortality (PCSM) at the time of diagnosis remains uncertain, particularly among men with clinically localized disease.We evaluated associations between germline risk factors and PCSM among 14,644 men with incident PCa in the UK Biobank. Associations between PCSM and reported germline risk factors, including 11 genes recommended by the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN), nine other candidate genes, two common variants [KLK3 (I179T) and HSD3B1 (1245 A > C)], and three polygenic risk scores (PRSs), were tested using Fine-Gray competing-risk models accounting for non-PCa mortality.During a median follow-up of 6.73 years after diagnosis, 1581 men (10.8%) died from PCa. PVs in three NCCN-recommended DNA damage-repair genes (BRCA2, MSH6, PALB2) were individually associated with increased PCSM and were defined as Tier-1. Aggregated PVs in seven additional NCCN-recommended DDR genes (Tier-2) and the KLK3 I179T variant were also independently associated with PCSM. In contrast, HOXB13, nine other candidate genes, HSD3B1, and all three PRSs were not associated with cumulative PCSM risk. Overall, 14.45% of men carried Tier-1 or Tier-2 PVs and/or KLK3 I179T and experienced significantly earlier PCa-specific mortality. Importantly, associations remained significant among men without metastatic disease at diagnosis.Reported inherited susceptibility to PCa does not uniformly confer risk of lethal progression. Germline PVs in NCCN-recommended DDR genes and the KLK3 I179T variant identify a subset of men at elevated risk of PCSM, including those with apparently localized disease. These findings support consideration of selected germline markers for prognostic risk stratification at diagnosis to inform individualized management decisions.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42547351
Skipped: PubMed ID 42544683 is a review article
Spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 (SCA3) is a neurodegenerative disorder caused by an abnormally long polyglutamine-encoding CAG repeat in the ATXN3 gene.We aimed to determine whether somatic expansion of the mutant ATXN3 (mATXN3) CAG repeat is present in the output cell of the cerebellar cortex, the Purkinje cell (PC), in individuals affected with SCA3.We combined sorting of cell nuclei from post-mortem brain tissue, transcriptome analysis-based confirmation of sample purity, and high-depth sequencing of ATXN3 exon 10 amplicons to analyze the stability of mATXN3 CAG repeat in PCs in individuals with SCA3.We demonstrated that the expansion of mATXN3 CAG repeat in PCs is minimal, comparable with cerebellar granule neurons, and the repeat is more stable in PCs compared with striatal medium spiny neurons.The modest somatic expansion of the mATXN3 CAG repeat observed in PCs is likely not responsible for their loss in individuals with SCA3. © 2026 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.© 2026 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.
Repeat expansion mutations underlie diverse neurogenetic disorders, many involving the peripheral nervous system. Despite peripheral neuropathy being the most common neurological disorder worldwide, its contribution to repeat expansion diseases remains poorly defined, and robust preclinical models are limited. We established a translational framework to study peripheral neuropathy in spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 (SCA3), a fatal multisystem disorder caused by a pathogenic CAG expansion in ATXN3.SCA3 Knock-In Atxn3Q300/Q6 (KI) and Atxn3-/- Knock-Out (KO) mice underwent sensorimotor nerve conduction and behavioral testing. Peripheral tissues were evaluated for SCA3-related pathology, and transcriptional changes in KI dorsal root ganglia (DRG) were assessed by bulk RNA sequencing. To test therapeutic relevance, we generated a conditional "OFF" SCA3 knock-in (cKI) mouse and crossed it with Avil-Cre to selectively silence mutant ATXN3 in sensory neurons. Peripheral phenotyping was repeated in Avil-Cre; cKI mice.KI mice developed progressive sensorimotor deficits, peripheral histopathology, and RNA splicing dysregulation that parallel clinical features of SCA3. In contrast, KO mice showed normal peripheral nerve function, implicating toxic gain-of-function from mutant ATXN3 as the causative driver. Sensory neuron-specific silencing of mutant ATXN3 significantly ameliorated peripheral nerve abnormalities and DRG splicing dysregulation.These findings define a pathogenic role for repeat expansion-driven peripheral nerve degeneration in SCA3, identify sensory neurons as key therapeutic targets, and provide a preclinical platform for developing peripheral interventions in SCA3 and related repeat expansion disorders. ANN NEUROL 2026.© 2026 The Author(s). Annals of Neurology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Neurological Association.
We report a 60-year-old Chinese woman with Machado-Joseph disease (MJD/SCA3), initially managed as Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease due to distal sensory loss, pes cavus, and areflexia. Later cerebellar, bulbar, and ocular signs, together with ATXN3 CAG expansion, clarified the diagnosis and highlighted the need to revisit atypical hereditary neuropathy diagnoses.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Case Reports published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Gastric cancer (GC) remains a lethal malignancy with limited therapeutic options and poor prognosis. In this study, we employed integrated RNA sequencing and ribosome nascent-chain complex sequencing analyses to identify a coding circular RNA (circRNA), circRAD23B, which is markedly up-regulated in GC tissues. Its expression correlates strongly with advanced tumor stage, lymph node metastasis, and reduced overall survival. We further demonstrate that the splicing factor U2AF65 facilitates circRAD23B biogenesis through direct binding to intron 1 of the RAD23B pre-mRNA. Functionally, circRAD23B encodes a novel 208-amino acid protein via an internal ribosome entry site-dependent mechanism. This protein promotes GC proliferation, invasion, and lung metastasis in vivo. Mechanistically, circRAD23B-208aa recruits the E2 ligase UBC9 to catalyze SUMOylation of PDIA5 at lysine 25, thereby attenuating its ubiquitination and enhancing protein stability. Stabilized PDIA5 facilitates ATF6 activation by promoting its proteolytic processing, nuclear translocation, and transcriptional induction of key unfolded protein response (UPR) effectors-TXNRD1 and HERPUD1-thereby alleviating endoplasmic reticulum stress and promoting tumor survival. Our findings reveal circRAD23B-208aa as the first circRNA-encoded activator of the UPR pathway via posttranslational regulation of PDIA5, highlighting the therapeutic potential of targeting the SUMOylation-dependent PDIA5/ATF6 axis in GC.Copyright © 2026 Yuli Chen et al.
Multiple myeloma (MM) is a plasma cell malignancy characterized by genomic instability and a high dependency on proteasome activity. Accordingly, DNA-damaging agents and proteasome inhibitors (PIs) are frontline therapies; however, therapeutic resistance inevitably develops. RAD23A, a dual-function protein involved in nucleotide excision repair and proteasome-mediated protein degradation, is highly expressed in MM and is associated with poor patient survival. Here, we demonstrate that depletion of RAD23A exerts potent anti-MM activity both in vitro and in vivo. Inducible CRISPR/Cas9 knockout (iKO) or shRNA-mediated knockdown of RAD23A in MM cell lines, including PI-resistant models, markedly suppressed cell proliferation. RAD23A loss impaired DNA repair capacity, triggered activation of the stress-associated eIF2α-ATF4 axis and promoted caspase-dependent apoptosis. Quantitative proteomic profiling of RAD23A-iKO cells confirmed upregulation of apoptotic and stress-response pathways, accompanied by downregulation of DNA repair and deubiquitination pathways. In an MM xenograft model, RAD23A depletion significantly reduced tumor growth and prolonged survival. Collectively, these findings identify RAD23A as a critical survival factor in MM and highlight its potential as a novel therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s).
Excessive mechanical stress is a main cause of intervertebral disc degeneration (IDD). However, the specific mechanism remains unclear. We established in vivo and in vitro models to investigate the role of cytoskeletal proteins in excessive mechanical stress-induced NP cell pyroptosis and IDD. The expression level of Vimentin was decreased in degenerated NP cells induced by excessive mechanical stress. Knockdown of Vimentin promoted NP cell pyroptosis and IDD in rats, whereas Vimentin overexpression significantly alleviated excessive mechanical stress-induced NP cell pyroptosis and degeneration. Further mechanistic studies revealed that Vimentin ameliorated mitochondrial dysfunction triggered by excessive mechanical stress through PINK1-Parkin-dependent mitophagy, thereby attenuating NP cell pyroptosis and degeneration. Co-immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry analysis suggested an interaction between Itgb1 and Vimentin, which was validated by Co-immunoprecipitation assays. Itgb1 enhanced Vimentin protein stability via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway and inhibited mechanical stress-mediated Vimentin degradation. Subsequent experiments confirmed that Itgb1 reduced Vimentin ubiquitination and degradation by blocking the binding of MNAT1 to Vimentin. Itgb1 ameliorated excessive mechanical stress-induced NP cell pyroptosis and degeneration via Vimentin. Restoring Vimentin function through gene overexpression effectively inhibited NP cell pyroptosis and delayed the progression of IDD in rats. In summary, this study reveals a mechanotransduction pathway from mechanical stress sensing to cellular functional regulation in IDD, providing novel insights into the pathological mechanisms underlying IDD. Moreover, this study demonstrates that Vimentin exerts a significant protective effect against excessive mechanical stress-induced NP cell pyroptosis and IDD, offering a potential therapeutic target for the clinical management of IDD.© 2026 The Author(s). Cell Proliferation published by Beijing Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and sarcopenia demonstrate a significant comorbidity, particularly in the elderly, yet the molecular mechanisms linking them, especially through oxidative stress, remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to identify oxidative stress-related hub genes involved in T2DM-associated sarcopenia (T2DS) by integrating single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and bulk RNA-seq data with machine learning. We analyzed scRNA-seq datasets (GSE244515, GSE268953) to characterize cellular heterogeneity and bulk RNA-seq datasets (GSE202295, GSE226151) for differential expression. Cell type annotation revealed key involvement of neuromuscular junctions and myofibers. Functional enrichment analyses highlighted pathways like the proteasome, TNF signaling, and ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis. From an initial set of oxidative stress-related genes, a comprehensive machine learning framework comprising 127 algorithm combinations was employed. The Lasso+Stepglm[both] model identified 12 candidate genes. Subsequent Protein-Protein Interaction (PPI) network analysis refined this to seven core hub genes: TNFRSF1B, PSMA2, UBE2D1, UBE2N, HSP90AA1, RAD23A, and DNAJB1. These genes are functionally interconnected, primarily implicating TNFRSF1B-mediated inflammatory signaling that activates the ubiquitin-proteasome system, leading to enhanced protein degradation-a key pathway in muscle atrophy. ROC curve analysis confirmed the strong diagnostic value of these hub genes across training, test, and external validation sets. Our findings systematically reveal novel oxidative stress-related hub genes and mechanisms in T2DS, providing potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets for this debilitating condition.Copyright: © 2026 Zhu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Recent advances in prime editing technologies using CRISPR modules fused with reverse transcriptase (RT) have enabled efficient and precise reprogramming of target genomic sequences. Twin prime editing using two coordinated prime editor complexes is a promising strategy for inducing extensive genomic modifications via reverse-transcribed complementary templates. However, current twin prime editing systems still require improvements in editing efficiency, accuracy, and intended edit predictability. Here, efficiency and precision of twin prime editing were enhanced via engineering and optimizing conventional SpCas9(H840A)-RT-based prime editor (twin-PE) components. A La-domain-fused prime editor (La-twin-PE) and optimized prime editing guide RNAs (pegRNAs) were developed, achieving a 1.75 ± 0.21-fold increase in gene editing efficiency at multiple genomic loci in human-derived cell lines without increasing unintended indel or inaccurate editing. La-twin-PE facilitated efficient ∼2.8 kb GFP transgene knockin at target loci and eliminated the expanded polyQ tract in ATXN3 in an engineered human-derived mutant cell line modeling spinocerebellar ataxia type 3. The optimized twin prime editing platform facilitates highly efficient and scalable genomic engineering through streamlined pegRNA design, offering substantial potential for a broad spectrum of biotechnological and therapeutic applications.© 2026 The Author(s).
Expanded short tandem repeats contribute to a broad spectrum of neurodegenerative diseases, yet their roles in Parkinson's disease (PD) and parkinsonism remain incompletely characterized, especially across diverse ancestries. We analyzed short-read whole-genome (WGS) and clinical exome sequencing (CES) data from 38,365 individuals (28,861 WGS; 9,504 CES), encompassing 23,242 patients with PD, 4,729 patients with atypical parkinsonism and 10,394 healthy controls from 11 genetic ancestries. To determine carrier frequencies and characterize repeat structures across diverse ancestries, we genotyped 12 established pathogenic loci where normal, intermediate, and pathogenic alleles can be reliably differentiated using short-read sequencing data. Additionally, we conducted threshold-based associations to determine the minimum threshold associated with increased PD risk in 15,995 individuals (8,591 PD, 7,404 controls) of European ancestry. Pathogenic repeat expansions were detected in 62 patients (56 PD and 6 atypical parkinsonism) and 5 controls across seven loci (AR, ATXN1, ATXN2, ATXN3, CACNA1A, HTT and THAP11), spanning seven ancestries. Among these, ATXN2 expansions were the most frequently observed in PD and were present in African, East Asian, European and Middle Eastern ancestries. Additionally, intermediate ATXN2 repeat expansions exhibited a strong, length-dependent association with PD risk in the European population, with individuals with ≥32 repeats having a more than four-fold increased risk (odds ratio 4.25, 95% confidence interval 1.80-12.05). Overall, >92% of expanded alleles harbor CAA interruptions within the CAG tract. Pathogenic expansions at other loci, such as ATXN3 and THAP11, showed more ancestry-specific distributions. Clinically, individuals with pathogenic ATXN2 and ATXN3 expansions most often presented with typical PD features but frequently showed earlier disease onset and a strong family history of PD. This large-scale, multi-ancestry study comprehensively maps the genetic landscape of pathogenic and intermediate repeat expansions in PD. Our findings confirm a length- and structure-dependent risk association for ATXN2 with PD in the European population and highlight the pleiotropic effects of repeat expansions across the parkinsonian spectrum.
Postmenopausal osteoporosis (PMOP) arises from a bone remodeling imbalance in which osteoclast-mediated resorption exceeds osteoblast-driven formation. However, current therapies primarily target osteoclasts without restoring osteoblast function, underscoring the need for mechanism-driven dual-action approaches. Here, we identify neddylation as a post-translational modification that reciprocally regulates osteoclast and osteoblast differentiation. In bone tissue from patients with PMOP, NEDD8 and its activating enzyme NAE1 were significantly upregulated, indicating heightened pathway activity. Mechanistically, c-Cbl neddylates NFATc1 to promote osteoclastogenesis, whereas Rbx1 neddylates Runx2 to suppress osteoblast maturation. Pharmacological blockade with the NAE1 inhibitor MLN4924 counteracted both effects and, in ovariectomized mice, reduced osteoclast activity while preserving osteoblast function, preventing deterioration of bone mass and microarchitecture. In human PMOP bone tissues, elevated NEDD8 and NAE1 expression was associated with increased NFATc1 in osteoclast-lineage cells and reduced Runx2 in osteoblast-lineage cells, suggesting translational relevance. These findings reveal neddylation as a unifying mechanism that coordinates opposing effects on osteoclast and osteoblast master transcription factors and highlight its potential as a mechanism-driven dual-action therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s).
African swine fever (ASF) is an acute, hemorrhagic, and highly contagious disease caused by African swine fever virus (ASFV), which causes severe economic losses in the swine industry. ASFV has evolved multiple strategies to evade host antiviral immune responses. Here, we report that ASFV pMGF360-3 L promotes host mitophagy by manipulating chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA), thereby inhibiting the production of type I interferon (IFNB/IFN-β). Mechanistically, pMGF360-3 L targets the SKP1 protein via its N-terminal ankyrin (ANK) repeat domain, promoting the degradation of SKP1 through the CMA pathway, which inhibits the proteasomal degradation of BNIP3 to increase its expression level in mitochondria. Subsequently, BNIP3 binds to MAP1LC3B/LC3B to induce mitophagy, a process that leads to the degradation of mitochondria. Notably, the CMA-mediated degradation of SKP1 depends on its K94 site, and the SKP1-BNIP3 axis is critical for pMGF360-3 L-mediated IFNB inhibition. In summary, our study reveals a mechanism through which ASFV pMGF360-3 L facilities CMA-dependent degradation of the E3 complex component SKP1. This stabilizes mitochondrial BNIP3 to initiate mitophagy and block IFNB production. This deepens our understanding of the immune evasion strategies of ASFV and provides potential drug targets for controlling viral infection.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ASFV: African swine fever virus; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BNIP3: BCL2 interacting protein 3; CMA: chaperone-mediated autophagy; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; CHX: cycloheximide; CUL1: cullin 1; DAPI: 4', 6-diamidino-2'-phenylindole; EV: emptor vector; FBXL4: F-box and leucine rich repeat protein 4; hpi: hours post-infection; IFNB: interferon beta; ISGs: IFN-stimulated genes; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MG132: cbz-leu-leu-leucinal; MAVS: mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein; MOI: multiplicity of infection; PAMs: porcine alveolar macrophages; PPTC7: protein phosphatase targeting COQ7; RBX1: ring-box 1; RT-PCR: real-time polymerase chain reaction; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SKP1: S-phase kinase associated protein 1; TCID50: 50% tissue culture infectious doses; Ub: ubiquitin; WCL: whole-cell lysate; WT: wild-type.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42494996
Cisplatin resistance is a major barrier to effective treatment of squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) including cutaneous SCC and Head and neck SCC, where resistance develops in more than half of advanced cases. Our previous work demonstrated that genetic knockdown or pharmacological inhibition of TIP60 (KAT5), a histone acetyl transferase, sensitizes cisplatin-resistant SCC cells, induces cell cycle arrest and promotes cell death, suggesting a key role for TIP60 in mediating resistance. Here, we use cisplatin-sensitive and resistant SCC cell lines, together with siRNA-mediated gene silencing, stable overexpression, pharmacological inhibition, immunodot-blot assays, and ICP-MS to demonstrate that TIP60 promotes resistance through two complementary pathways: (1) upregulation of the efflux transporter ABCC1, which reduces intracellular cisplatin accumulation, and (2) increased expression of XPC, a key component of the nucleotide excision repair pathway, involved in recognition and removal of cisplatin-DNA adducts. Elevated TIP60 levels correlate with reduced cisplatin-DNA adduct levels, enhanced removal of cisplatin-DNA adducts and increased cell survival in resistant lines. TIP60 depletion reduces ABCC1 expression and increases cisplatin-DNA adduct levels, effects similarly observed with the ABCC1 inhibitor, MK-571. In parallel, TIP60 knockdown impairs removal of cisplatin-DNA adducts and reduces expression of multiple DNA damage response (DDR) genes, including XPC. Combined inhibition of TIP60 with spironolactone (targeting XPB/NER) or with MK-571further reduces cell survival and increases cell death in resistant cells. These findings establish TIP60 as a regulator of cisplatin resistance that integrates drug efflux and DNA repair pathways, highlighting TIP60 inhibition as a promising therapeutic strategy to overcome platinum resistance in SCC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42419012 is a review article
The Ariadne (ARI) gene family belongs to RBR-type E3 ubiquitin ligases and regulates plant growth, development, and abiotic stress responses. However, a systematic genome-wide analysis of the ARI family has not been reported in wheat.In this study, we identified 21 TaARI genes that were unevenly distributed on 12 chromosomes. The phylogenetic analysis showed that ARI proteins were divided into A, B, and C subfamilies. Most TaARIs existed in subfamilies A and B, and only TaARI7-D belonged to subfamilies C. TaARIs with closer phylogenetic relationships had similar gene structures and conserved motifs. Promoter cis-acting element analysis revealed that stress-responsive elements were the most abundant in the promoter of TaARIs. Expression profiling demonstrated that most TaARIs were preferentially expressed in roots, and induced by PEG-simulated drought or salt stress, with TaARI2, TaARI3, TaARI4, TaARI5 and TaARI6 as candidate stress regulators for drought and salt stresses. A total of 72 upstream transcription factors of TaARIs belonging to 24 transcription factor families were determined, with MYB-related, bZIP, and ERF transcription factors being the most abundant. Protein interaction prediction indicated that TaARIs interact with E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase RBX1 and ubiquitin-40 S ribosomal protein S27a, suggesting that TaARIs might participate in the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Haplotype analysis suggested that TaARI6-D-Hap I could be a superior drought-resistant haplotype with higher gene expression and seedling survival under drought stress.In conclusion, our results provided crucial insights into the functions and molecular mechanisms of TaARI genes under drought and salt stress, and provided a gene resource for molecular breeding to stress‑resistant wheat varieties.© 2026. The Author(s).
Oncolytic virotherapy has shown promise for various cancers, but its application in osteosarcoma (OS) remains underexplored. This study provides evidence that M1, a natural Getah-like alphavirus, exerts oncolytic activity against OS. We demonstrate that OS cells exhibit heightened sensitivity to M1 infection, with its anti-tumor effects not solely dependent on the canonical ER stress-induced apoptosis. Proteomic and ChIP-seq analyses show the DNA-directed RNA polymerase II subunit RPB1 contributes to oncogenic super-enhancer activity and serves as a direct target of M1-mediated regulation. The oncolytic potency correlated positively with the transcriptional dependency on RPB1 within super-enhancer regions. Mechanistically, the viral non-structural protein NSP2 disrupts super-enhancer activity by recruiting the CUL2-RBX1-ELOC complex, which triggers K63-linked ubiquitination and degradation of RPB1. Together, these findings uncover a previously unrecognized mechanism underlying M1 activity in osteosarcoma, support further preclinical evaluation of M1 in this setting, and identify RPB1 as a candidate biomarker for virotherapy response.© 2026. The Author(s).
Ki-67 is routinely used in clinical practice to quantify proliferative activity, yet proliferation has not been incorporated into current molecular classification systems for urothelial carcinoma (UC). This work studies the tumor microenvironment (TME), therapeutic vulnerabilities, and clinical implications of the proliferative ecotype in UC.The authors assembled a multi-cohort data set of 1431 UC patients from four institutional cohorts and five publicly available data sets with comprehensive clinicopathological annotations. Through an integrated multi-omics framework coupled with experimental validation, they assessed how proliferative status shape lineage differentiation, clinical outcomes, treatment response, and TME architecture.High Ki-67 expression identified a proliferative ecotype associated with markedly worse prognosis but enhanced sensitivity to platinum-based chemotherapy and PD-1/PD-L1 blockade. This ecotype displayed elevated tumor purity and tumor mutation burden, with characteristic genomic alterations including enrichment of TP53, ERCC2, and ATM/RB1/FANCC mutations and reduced 9p21.3 loss. The proliferative ecotype orchestrated an immune-enriched TME dominated by CD8+ T cells and B cells. Functional analyses revealed that CD8+ T cells preferentially differentiated toward an exhausted state, and mechanistic interrogation identified a GDF-15-TGFBR2 signaling axis through which epithelial cells modulate CD8+ T-cell dysfunction.This study identifies a proliferative ecotype of UC that is orthogonal to classical luminal/basal ecotypes. Despite its adverse prognosis, this ecotype confers superior responsiveness to chemotherapy and immunotherapy and features a distinct genomic and immune ecosystem. These findings position proliferative status as a clinically actionable axis that may refine molecular classification and guide precision therapy in UC.© 2026 American Cancer Society.
Proteins function through coordinated, time-dependent conformational motions, yet conventional analyses often obscure how these dynamics propagate across complex assemblies. Here, we introduce a generalized Time-Dependent Torsion Angle Correlation (TDTAC) framework that incorporates explicit time lags between residues, enabling quantitative mapping of directional, sequential correlations. By analyzing dihedral rotations, TDTAC reveals conformational dynamics through a physically meaningful representation of residue-level fluctuations. We apply this framework to examine how a small-molecule degrader may induce time-lagged structural rearrangements that facilitate targeted protein degradation. We analyzed the PROteolysis TArgeting Chimera (PROTAC) dBET70, a bifunctional small molecule in complex with its target protein, bromodomain-containing protein 4 (BRD4BD1), and assembled within the full degradation complex Cullin-RING Ligase 4A (CRL4A) E3 ligase scaffold. The full assembly comprises nine components: dBET70, BRD4BD1, and the seven-protein degradation complex CRBN, DDB1, CUL4A, NEDD8, RBX1, E2, and Ub. TDTAC analysis reveals that motions originating at the DDB1-CUL4A region propagate along two dominant pathways: one extending through DDB1 toward the CRBN-BRD4 interface, and the second extending through CUL4A toward the RBX1-Ub interface. These coordinated, time-delayed rearrangements are associated with configurations that bring BRD4, E2, Ub, and the PROTAC into a ubiquitination-competent state. Both pathways exhibit similar lag-dependent propagation behavior, consistent with a network of time-delayed residue-residue coordination linking local torsional dynamics to distal catalytic interfaces. More broadly, TDTAC provides a generalizable framework for resolving dynamic information flow in large biomolecular assemblies.Copyright © 2026 Escobar Palacio, Shen and Chang.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection remains a major global health burden, with chronic infection leading to severe liver diseases including cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). HBV-encoded X protein (HBx) plays a critical role in viral replication and pathogenesis by modulating host cellular processes, including autophagy and lysosomal function. However, the molecular mechanisms by which HBx disrupts lysosomal biogenesis and autophagic degradation remain elusive. In this study, we show that HBx downregulates the transcription factor EB (TFEB), a master regulator of lysosomal biogenesis, which leading to impaired lysosomal acidification and autophagosome-lysosome fusion. Mechanistically, HBx-mediated TFEB downregulation involves the CUL4A (Cullin 4A)/CUL4B (Cullin 4B)-DDB1 (DNA damage-binding protein 1) E3 ubiquitin ligase complex and is dependent on the DDB1-interacting motif in HBx. HBx mutants defective in DDB1 binding (HBxR96E and HBxΔDBD) fail to downregulate TFEB or impair lysosomal function. Collectively, our findings identify a pathway by which HBx disrupts lysosomal function via CUL4A/CUL4B-DDB1-dependent TFEB downregulation, providing insights into HBV-associated liver pathogenesis and highlighting potential targets for therapeutic intervention.
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a common fatal genetic disorder with a high carrier rate. For the prevention program and treatment plan of this disease, a comprehensive assay is practically needed to gain multigenetic information, enabling effective molecular screening and accurate clinical classification. In this study, a novel single-tube matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry assay was developed to simultaneously analyze the copy numbers of survival motor neuron (SMN), neuronal apoptosis-inhibitory protein (NAIP), small EDRK-rich factor 1A (H4F5), and general transcription factor IIH subunit 2 (GTF2H2); identify six common loss-of-function variants in SMN1; and identify hybrid SMN. The results of this assay were 100% consistent with the predetermined values in 158 genotype-known samples. Furthermore, a cohort of 162 clinical samples was double-blind detected to evaluate this assay, and the results showed a 100% overall concordance with comparative methods. Herein, this novel MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry assay was found to be practical and cost-effective and to have multigenetic information available, which is suitable for large-scale molecular screening and routine clinical diagnosis of spinal muscular atrophy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The significance of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) in glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) has been acknowledged, but their specific role in the pathogenesis of GBM has not been thoroughly investigatedr. This study aimed to investigate the involvement of lncRNAs in the pathogenesis of GBM.We collected GBM tissues from four patients and corresponding para-carcinoma controls samples, and used HiSeq sequencing to generate lncRNA expression profiles in GBM. To identify lncRNAs associated with GBM, we employed Mendelian randomization (MR), leveraging the comprehensive extensive expression data obtained from HiSeq sequencing to infer causal relationships. Expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) for brain tissues were accessed from the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) Portal. Subsequently, we conducted an integrative analysis combining brain cancer genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary data (finn-b-C3_GBM) with eQTL data using MR. Differentially expressed lncRNAs were intersected with MR results to identify lncRNA candidates. Subsequently, the ENCORI database was used to identify genes regulated by the candidate lncRNAs, and Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analyses were performed.A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed to identify hub genes associated with GBM, and these findings were validated using the Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis 2 (GEPIA2) tool. A total of 106 lncRNAs exhibited significant alterations in expression levels (|log2(fold change)| > 1 and P < 0.05) in GBM tissues. Through Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis, TMEM161B-AS1 emerged as a promising candidate lncRNA. Genes regulated by TMEM161B-AS1 were significantly enriched in biological processes such as DNA replication and repair, cellular response to DNA damage stimuli, and pathways including the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor signaling pathway, nucleotide excision repair, and the Fanconi anemia pathway. The differential expression of hub genes CUL4A, RPA1, and BRIP1 was validated using the GEPIA2 database.These findings suggest pathways for the development of more precise and sensitive biomarkers for the diagnosis and management of GBM, which may ultimately enhance patient outcomes.IJCEP Copyright © 2026.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a prevalent malignant tumor with increasing incidence and mortality rates worldwide. Exosomes are secretory vesicles generated by the endosomal system within cells. Previous studies have reported that exosome-related genes (ERGs) are associated with the progression of malignancies. This study investigates the role of ERGs in CRC, evaluates their impact on CRC prognosis, and explores inter-individual differences among CRC patients in different risk groups.Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) algorithm was employed to identify ERGs associated with CRC. Subsequently, various bioinformatics approaches, including enrichment analysis, consensus clustering, and survival analysis, were utilized to investigate the role of ERGs in individual CRC patients. Furthermore, exosome-related signature genes were refined using the Random Forest (RF) and Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) algorithms based on colon cancer samples from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. An ERG-related gene signature was then constructed to calculate the ERG-associated risk score for each patient, which was validated using data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Based on the risk scores, we assessed the responsiveness of different CRC individuals to immunotherapy and chemotherapy. Finally, single-cell analysis provided deeper insights into the relationship between ERGs and CRC, and a nomogram was established to enhance their clinical utility.This study identified two ERG-related subtypes that exhibited significant differences in prognosis, enriched pathways, clinicopathological features, and immune characteristics. Moreover, CRC individuals with high ERG-related risk scores were associated with poor responsiveness to immunotherapy and increased sensitivity to various chemotherapeutic agents. Single-cell analysis revealed that ERGs were highly expressed in monocytes. The model developed in this study demonstrated strong predictive accuracy for assessing ERG-related risk in CRC patients.This study identified two hub genes, CUL4A and UCHL1, highlighting the diagnostic and prognostic significance of ERGs in CRC and offering new insights into CRC treatment. Additionally, the ERG signature plays a crucial role in predicting individualized prognosis and facilitating the development of novel therapeutic strategies for CRC patients. Nevertheless, further studies are necessary to bring statistically derived risk models into clinically applicable assays.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42387935
Small-molecule inhibitors represent a novel potential therapeutic for tumors. Our previous work identified SIC-19, a small molecule compound that induces degradation of salt-inducible kinase 2 (SIK2), leading to apoptosis and reduced proliferation in tumor, expecting to be a promising clinical treatment for ovarian cancer. While we initially observed that SIC-19 triggers SIK2 ubiquitination, the underlying mechanism was unknown. Here we elucidate this process by demonstrating that SIC-19 promotes the interaction between SIK2 and the CUL4B-DDB1 E3 ubiquitin ligase. Mass spectrometry discovered several ubiquitin ligases that bind to SIK2. Immunoprecipitation assays revealed that the CUL4B-DDB1 ligase is an interaction partner of SIK2. Through Western blot analysis, we demonstrated that CUL4B is functionally required for SIC-19-induced ubiquitination and SIK2 degradation. The ubiquitination and half-life of SIK2 are directly correlated with the dosage of SIC-19 and the expression of CUL4B. Site-directed mutagenesis and ubiquitination assays further confirmed that lysine 144 (K144) is the critical residue in SIK2 that regulates cancer behavior as cell proliferation and migration by leading to the degradation of SIK2. Our findings define a novel mechanism wherein SIC-19 induces CUL4B-dependent ubiquitination and degradation of SIK2, possesses the potential to act as an inhibitor, and may subsequently be developed as a targeted agent.
Radioresistance is a main reason for treatment failure in patients with small cell lung cancer (SCLC). Consequently, it is important to determine the key mechanism and explore effective strategies to prevent SCLC radioresistance. We use an unbiased CRISPR screen to identify GSDME, a member of the Gasdermin (GSDM) family, as a critical driver of radiosensitivity in SCLC. Furthermore, we identify mTORC2 facilitates SCLC radioresistance by inhibiting GSDME-N-mediated pyroptosis. Mechanistically, mTORC2 phosphorylates GSDME-N at serine 114 (S114), promoting the recruitment of the CUL4B-RBBP4 E3 ubiquitin ligase complex. This complex mediates K48-linked ubiquitination of GSDME-N at lysine 41 (K41), leading to its proteasomal degradation. Clinically, elevated mTORC2 is linked to an unfavorable prognosis in SCLC patients. The study reveals mTORC2 phosphorylates GSDME-N and promotes its Cullin4B-mediated proteasomal degradation to suppress pyroptosis and drive radioresistance in SCLC.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a major cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide. Although Cullin family genes (CUL1, CUL2, CUL3, CUL4A, CUL4B, CUL5, CUL7, and CUL9) have been implicated in tumorigenesis, their roles in CRC are not fully defined. This study integrated in silico analysis with in vitro validation to characterize the expression and functional relevance of these genes in CRC. Transcriptomic profiling of TCGA datasets revealed significant up-regulation of CUL1, CUL2, CUL4A, CUL4B, CUL5, CUL7, and CUL9 in tumor tissues, with higher expression correlating with advanced stage and poorer survival, particularly for CUL5 and CUL7. Immunohistochemistry confirmed elevated protein levels, while genomic analysis showed that CUL9, CUL1, and CUL7 exhibited the highest mutation frequencies, though without significant survival impact. Single-cell and subtype analyses demonstrated distinct Cullin gene expression patterns across tumor-associated cell populations and immune or molecular subtypes. Functional enrichment indicated involvement in ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis and cancer-related pathways. Experimental knockdown of CUL5 and CUL7 in CRC cell lines significantly reduced proliferation and colony formation. ChIP-qPCR demonstrated increased H3K27ac enrichment at the CUL5 and CUL7 promoters in CRC cells, indicating epigenetic activation. Cycloheximide (CHX) chase assays further showed that silencing CUL5 or CUL7 accelerated the degradation of CREB1 and Cyclin D1, suggesting a role in substrate stabilization. Overall, our findings highlight the widespread up-regulation and functional significance of Cullin genes in CRC, with CUL5 and CUL7 emerging as key contributors to tumor progression and potential biomarkers or therapeutic targets.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells sustain viability and radioresistance by actively countering oxidative stress. Understanding the mechanisms regulating reactive oxygen species (ROS) homeostasis is therefore crucial for developing novel therapies. Using integrated genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 screening coupled with transcriptomic and metabolomic profiling, we identified DDB1 and CUL4-associated factor 4 (DCAF4) as an essential regulator of oxidative stress resistance in HCC. Mechanistically, DCAF4 functions as a CRL4 E3 ligase adapter that promotes KEAP1 ubiquitination and degradation. Notably, under oxidative stress, cytoplasmic stress granules (SGs) form a localized platform that facilitates the DCAF4-KEAP1 interaction, accelerating KEAP1 degradation and leading to NRF2 activation and upregulation of antioxidant genes. We further identified that the transcription factor XBP1 enhances DCAF4 expression. Targeting this axis, we performed computational screening to identify a small-molecule inhibitor that disrupts the DCAF4-KEAP1 interaction. This compound effectively enhanced brachytherapy (BT) sensitivity and inhibited tumor growth in preclinical HCC models.© 2026. The Author(s).
Nitazoxanide-based analogues were synthesized and evaluated for HBx-DDB1 interaction inhibition using a split-luciferase assay. Compared to the nitazoxanide (NTZ, IC50 = 1.2 μM) the compound 49a exhibited potent inhibition of the HBx-DDB1 interaction with an IC50 of 0.083 μM. Consistent with its HBx-DDB1 inhibitory effect, compound 49a showed antiviral activity in HBV-infected cells. Compound 49a displayed excellent metabolic stability in human liver microsomes (82% remaining after 30 min), minimal hERG inhibition, and limited CYP interference, showing only moderate inhibition of CYP2C9. In vivo pharmacokinetic studies in mice and rats revealed rapid absorption (T max = 0.5-3.5 h), low systemic clearance (0.09-0.10 L/h/kg), and high oral bioavailability (>90%). These findings establish compound 49a as a promising lead for the development of direct-acting antivirals targeting chronic HBV infection.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
The Wnt/β-catenin pathway plays a critical role in colorectal cancer (CRC) development. The significance of Wnt/β-catenin in maintaining the stability of adult tissues and challenges in identifying suitable molecular targets have limited the application of targeting the Wnt/β-catenin pathway. As one of the Cullin RING Ligase 4 adapters, DNA damage-binding protein 1 (DDB1) - and CUL4 correlation factor 13 (DCAF13) appears strongly expressed in different tumors. Our findings confirm enhanced expression of DCAF13 in tissues of CRC origin and related cell. In colon cancer cells, DCAF13 regulated adenomatous polyposis coli membrane recruitment 2 (AMER2) through ubiquitination, DCAF13 deletion increased AMER2 expression, which inhibited Wnt/β-catenin activity, suppressing cell proliferation. This effect was further validated in mice with gut-specific DCAF13 knockout. The ubiquitin-proteasome system is a potential target for drug development and cancer treatment. Beta-propeller proteins, such as CRL4 adapter DCAFs, are easily targeted by drugs. DCAF-proteolysis-targeting chimeras (PROTACs) can overcome drug resistance and selectively target tumor drivers by leveraging the unique substrate specificity of the DCAF subunits. DCAF13 emerges as a promising target for CRC, acting via the DCAF13-AMER2-Wnt /β-catenin axis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a highly aggressive malignancy with poor prognosis. DDB1 and CUL4 associated factor 13 (DCAF13) has been implicated in tumor progression, but its clinical relevance and biological function in PDAC remain unclear.Public databases (GEPIA2 and Kaplan-Meier Plotter) were used to analyze DCAF13 expression and its prognostic value in PDAC. Tumor and paired adjacent tissues from 90 PDAC patients were examined by immunohistochemistry to assess DCAF13 protein expression and its association with clinicopathological features and survival. DCAF13 expression in HPDE6-C7, AsPC-1 and MiaPaCa-2 cells was detected by qRT-PCR and Western blotting. Gain- and loss-of-function models were established to evaluate the effects of DCAF13 on cell migration, invasion and apoptosis using wound healing, Transwell and flow cytometry assays. Changes in p53-related signaling proteins were examined by Western blot.Bioinformatic analyses revealed significantly elevated DCAF13 expression in PDAC and its association with shorter overall and disease-free survival. Clinically, DCAF13 protein was overexpressed in PDAC tissues and correlated with tumor differentiation (P = 0.006). In PDAC cell lines, DCAF13 knockdown suppressed migration and invasion while promoting apoptosis in vitro, whereas DCAF13 overexpression exerted the opposite effects. In TP53-mutant PDAC cells, DCAF13 knockdown was associated with increased expression of p53-related proteins, including p53 and its downstream targets p21, BAX and FAS, suggesting a potential association between DCAF13 and altered p53-related signaling in this cellular context.DCAF13 is overexpressed in PDAC and associated with poor prognosis. DCAF13 may promote malignant phenotypes in vitro and alter p53-related signaling in TP53-mutant PDAC cells. These findings suggest that DCAF13 may have potential value as a prognostic biomarker and exploratory therapeutic candidate for PDAC, although further validation in WT-p53 and in vivo models is still required.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Base excision repair (BER) and nucleotide excision repair (NER) are traditionally regarded as independent pathways; however, accumulating evidence indicates that ultraviolet (UV)-damaged DNA-binding protein (UV-DDB), a core NER factor, stimulates BER DNA glycosylases, including alkyladenine DNA glycosylase (AAG). Despite this functional link, the molecular basis of the UV-DDB/AAG interaction and its regulation by DNA remain unclear. This study investigated the direct interaction between AAG and UV-DDB using electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA), surface plasmon resonance (SPR), biolayer interferometry (BLI) and AlphaFold3-based structural modeling under DNA-free and DNA-bound conditions. SPR analysis revealed that AAG and UV-DDB form a high-affinity complex in the absence of DNA (KD ≈ 17.5 nM), which is maintained but reduced approximately 2.6-fold upon binding to apurinic/apyrimidinic site (AP site)-containing dsDNA (KD ≈ 46.2 nM). BLI analysis independently confirmed this interaction under both DNA-free and DNA-bound conditions, with inter-platform differences consistent with previously reported BLI/SPR variability. EMSA showed UV-DDB-mediated ternary complex formation accompanied by redistribution of binary AAG/DNA species. AlphaFold3 modeling predicted that AAG associates with DDB1 in the DNA-free state, whereas under DNA-bound conditions, DDB2 recognizes the AP site while AAG repositions toward the lesion with multiple active site residues placed in close proximity. These findings support a model in which DNA binding acts as a molecular switch that reconfigures the UV-DDB/AAG interaction, potentially enabling UV-DDB to function as a recruitment platform that facilitates directional progression of AAG through the BER cycle, and providing a structural basis for coordinated integration of BER and NER.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42352065 is a review article
Targeted protein degradation has emerged as a promising drug modality, with potential applications across many immuno-inflammatory diseases. KT-474 is an orally bioavailable interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 4 (IRAK4) heterobifunctional degrader evaluated in clinical trials for atopic dermatitis and hidradenitis suppurativa. Here we present structural, biophysical, and computational characterization of an IRAK4:KT-474:CRBN/DDB1 complex. Cryo-EM structure of the complex reveals a unique and non-native protein-protein interaction (PPI) surface mediated by a network of polar and apolar contacts, including key hydrophobic engagements mediated by CRBN Phe150. This complex exhibits negative cooperativity, arising from an interplay between weakly favorable PPI and conformational flexibility of the degrader. Moreover, the structure provides insight into the selective degradation profile of KT-474. Our results offer important insights into the mechanism of action of KT-474 and highlight the value of cryo-EM structures in the optimization of protein degraders.© 2026. The Author(s).
Accurate prediction of skin pigmentation from DNA remains challenging, particularly in admixed populations due to their complex genetic architecture. In this study, we evaluated a panel of 66 SNPs associated with pigmentation in an admixed South Brazilian population from Rio Grande do Sul (n=438), phenotypically classified into six Fitzpatrick skin types. Three grouping strategies (six, three, and two classes) were adopted, and feature selection was performed using VariantSpark to identify the 20 most informative SNPs. Four machine learning algorithms (SVM, KNN, MLP, and XGBoost) were tested and optimized via recursive feature addition and hyperparameter tuning. Model performance was assessed using the weighted F1-score, accuracy, precision, and recall across 30 replicates. In the six-class grouping strategy, SVM achieved the highest F1-score (0.4846±0.0067), although PCA showed substantial overlap between classes. XGBoost under the three-class grouping scheme achieved an F1-score of 0.7839±0.0047, while binary classification with SVM reached the highest performance (F1-score =0.9530±0.0031). A subset of four SNPs-rs1426654 (SLC24A5), rs11230664 (DDB1), rs16891982 (SLC45A2), and rs1448484 (OCA2)-were consistently ranked as the most informative across all grouping strategies. Furthermore, our optimized SNP panel diverged significantly from HIrisPlex-S, incorporating a set of variants absent in the established system. This study demonstrates that tailored SNP selection and phenotypic grouping strategies are essential for accurate skin color prediction in admixed populations. The resulting models were implemented into the open-access tool BR-FDP-SKIN, providing a population-specific resource for forensic and anthropological applications.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Transcription-coupled nucleotide excision repair (TC-NER) safeguards transcription by repairing transcription-blocking lesions, which are highly cytotoxic if they remain unresolved. TC-NER is triggered when RNA polymerase II stalls at a transcription-blocking lesion and is recognized by CSB, followed by recruitment of the TC-NER factors CSA and UVSSA. The loss of any of these factors causes complete TC-NER deficiency. Pathogenic variants in CSB or CSA typically result in Cockayne syndrome, a disorder marked by neurodegeneration and severe premature aging, highlighting the importance of TC-NER. By contrast, pathogenic variants in UVSSA cause the much milder UV-sensitive syndrome, which is limited to cutaneous symptoms. Recently, this difference has been linked to the ability of UVSSA-deficient but not CSB- or CSA-deficient cells to clear stalled RNA polymerase II through proteasomal degradation, allowing alternative repair routes. Unexpectedly, patients with an early nonsense mutation in CSB (R77X), leading to undetectable protein levels, develop UV-sensitive syndrome rather than Cockayne syndrome. We examined this paradox and found that R77X cells can still degrade lesion-stalled RNA polymerase II, which is caused by residual but functional CSB expression in these cells. Together, our findings refine the model that defective RNA polymerase II processing is central to Cockayne syndrome pathogenesis and extend its relevance across TC-NER-related mutations.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Methyleugenol (ME) is a hepatotoxic phenylpropene naturally present in various herbs and spices. Following dietary exposure, ME undergoes metabolic activation in the liver, resulting in the formation of DNA adducts and liver damage. Although ME is a suspected human liver carcinogen, it is still unknown which DNA repair pathway removes the ME-induced DNA adducts. Here, we studied the relevance of nucleotide excision repair (NER) using various genetically engineered cell models. Our data show a crucial role for transcription-coupled (TC)-NER rather than global genome (GG)-NER, revealing that ME-induced DNA damage triggers detrimental transcription stress. Mechanistically, ME-derived DNA adducts stall RNA polymerase II (RNAPII), resulting in the chromatin release and cytoplasmic export of its active subunit RPB1, followed by proteasomal degradation to allow for repair and transcription recovery. Blocking of RNAPII by ME-derived DNA lesions promotes CSB immobilization and recruitment of CSA and UVSSA. The triggered canonical TC-NER pathway removes the ME-induced DNA lesions, preserves genome integrity and promotes cell survival. At high DNA adduct levels or in cells with deficient TC-NER, persistent transcription stress provokes genomic instability, induces apoptotic cell death and strongly reduces long-term cell survival. In contrast to that, GG-NER-compromised cells are not sensitized to ME-triggered cytotoxicity. Taken together, the canonical TC-NER pathway is crucial for the repair of DNA adducts induced by ME and likely also structurally related phenylpropenes. These findings are particularly important for Cockayne syndrome patients with defective TC-NER.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41921730 is a review article
Circadian rhythm disorders are epidemiologically linked to colorectal cancer (CRC), but causal relationships and molecular mechanisms remain unclear. We applied a multi-omics Mendelian Randomization (SMR) framework to assess the causal effects of circadian rhythm-related genes on CRC. Instrumental variables were derived from blood-based QTLs for methylation (mQTL), expression (eQTL), and protein levels (pQTL), with validation using tissue-level eQTLs. Summary data for CRC came from the FinnGen R12 GWAS. Colocalization analyses confirmed shared genetic variants. Candidate genes were further evaluated for expression and prognostic value using TCGA and GEPIA2. Through blood-level SMR analysis, we identified 142 methylation loci, 11 genes, and 2 proteins associated with CRC in discovery cohort. Among them, 42 methylation loci, 3 genes, and 2 proteins were colocalized with CRC incidence. Our SMR analysis highlighted GRHPR as a key gene, which is negatively correlated with CRC risk at multiple molecular levels (m/e/pQTL), supported by robust colocalization evidence. Meanwhile, eQTL results showed that high level expression of UVSSA was positively associated with CRC risk. QTL results at the tissue level (Colon_Sigmoid and Colon_Transverse) support a causal relationship between the genes GRHPR and UVSSA and CRC. Crucially, survival analyses revealed that genetically predicted effects of NAF1 and ZNF365 on CRC risk were highly consistent with their prognostic values in clinical outcomes (OS and RFS). However, transcriptome expression profiling of the TCGA database CRC cohort revealed no significant differential expression of GRHPR between CRC and normal tissues, though its expression positively correlated with tumor purity. This integrated multi-omics MR analysis identified 12 circadian rhythm-related genes with potential causal relationships to CRC, highlighting GRHPR as a risk-reducing factor, and NAF1 and ZNF365 as potential dual-purpose biomarkers for both risk stratification and prognosis. The study provides new insights into regulatory mechanisms and signaling pathways, offering novel clues for future mechanistic research and targeted therapies.© 2026. The Author(s).
We recently identified variants in 10 genes that are members of either the p53 pathway or Fanconi Anemia Complex (FAC), regulators of DNA repair (DNA damage response [DDR]) in 17 cases with pediatric acute-onset neuropsychiatric syndrome (PANS) or regression in autism spectrum disorder and other neurodevelopmental disorders (NDD). We aimed to identify additional cases with genetic vulnerabilities in DDR and related pathways.Whole-exome sequencing (WES) and whole-genome sequencing (WGS) data from 32 individuals were filtered and analyzed to identify ultrarare pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants.Variants affecting DDR were found in 14 cases diagnosed with PANS or regression (CUX1, USP45, PARP14, UVSSA, EP300, TREX1, SAMHD1, STK19, MYTl1, TEP1, PIDD1, ADNP, FANCD2, and RAD54L). The CUX1 variant is de novo, as are two cases that had mutations in genes that affect mitochondrial functions that are connected directly or indirectly to mitophagy (PRKN and POLG), which can trigger the same innate immune pathways when disrupted as abnormal DDR. We also found pathogenic or likely pathogenic secondary mutations in several genes that are primarily expressed in the gut that have been implicated in gut microbiome homeostasis (e.g., LGALS4, DUOX2, CCR9).These findings align with previous genetic findings and strengthen the hypothesis that abnormal DDR and mitochondrial dysfunction underlie pathogenic processes in at least some cases of neuropsychiatric decompensation. The potential involvement of genetic variants in gut microbiome homeostasis is a novel aspect of our study. Functional characterization of the downstream impact of DDR deficits may point to novel treatment strategies.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Stalling of elongating RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) at DNA lesions blocks transcription and triggers transcription-coupled repair (TCR). However, the mechanisms determining the fate of stalled RNAPII remain incompletely understood. Here, we develop a time-resolved assay to track RNAPII clearance and degradation at UV-induced lesions. We show that RNAPII ubiquitylation by CSB and the CRL4CSA ubiquitin ligase is essential, as loss of these proteins causes persistent RNAPII accumulation at damage sites. Downstream of CSB/CRL4CSA-mediated ubiquitylation, two distinct pathways mediate RNAPII removal. The primary rapid route relies on TFIIH, with its XPD helicase activity driving RNAPII dissociation after proper recruitment and positioning by ELOF1, UVSSA, and STK19. A secondary slow pathway is mediated by the ubiquitin-dependent segregase VCP, which compensates for impaired TFIIH function. While VCP contributes only minimally in TCR-proficient cells, inhibition of VCP in TFIIH-deficient contexts completely abrogates RNAPII clearance. Together, these findings establish a hierarchical program in which CSB/CRL4CSA-mediated ubiquitylation initiates RNAPII processing, TFIIH/XPD helicase activity provides the main clearance mechanism, and VCP-dependent extraction acts as a backup when TFIIH fails. This mechanistic framework explains how cells resolve DNA lesion-stalled RNAPII during normal and compromised TCR.© 2026. The Author(s).
The mycotoxin, aflatoxin B1 (AFB1), is a potent mutagen that contaminates agricultural food supplies. After ingestion, AFB1 is oxidized into a reactive electrophile that alkylates DNA, forming bulky lesions such as the genotoxic formamidopyrimidine lesion, AFB1-Fapy dG. This lesion is mainly repaired by nucleotide excision repair (NER) in bacteria; however, in humans the picture is less clear. We report a plasmid-based host cell reactivation assay containing a site-specific AFB1-Fapy dG lesion and present evidence that this lesion is mainly repaired by transcription-coupled NER (TC-NER) in human cells. Using a combination of isogenic knockout cell lines and immortalized fibroblasts from xeroderma pigmentosum and Cockayne syndrome patients, we show that the TC-NER factors CSA, CSB, and UVSSA are required for efficient AFB1-Fapy dG repair, while the global-genome NER protein, XPC, is dispensable. Furthermore, knockout of CSB or UVSSA impairs AFB1-Fapy dG repair to a similar degree as knockout of the core NER nuclease, XPF. Our data indicate that TC-NER is the major repair pathway for AFB1-Fapy dG adducts in human cells.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press.
We recently identified variants in 10 genes that are members of either the p53 pathway or Fanconi Anemia Complex (FAC), regulators of the DNA repair (DNA damage response; DDR) in 17 cases with Pediatric Acute-Onset Neuropsychiatry Syndrome (PANS) or regression in autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and other neurodevelopmental disorders (NDD). We aimed to identify additional cases with genetic vulnerabilities in DDR and related pathways.Whole exome sequencing (WES) and whole genome sequencing (WGS) data from 32 individuals were filtered and analyzed to identify ultrarare pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants.Variants affecting DDR were found in 14 cases diagnosed with PANS or regression (CUX1, USP45, PARP14, UVSSA, EP300, TREX1, SAMHD1, STK19, MYTl1, TEP1, PIDD1, ADNP, FANCD2, and RAD54L). The CUX1 variant is de novo, as are two cases who had mutations in genes that affect mitochondrial functions that are connected directly or indirectly to mitophagy (PRKN and POLG), which can trigger the same innate immune pathways when disrupted as abnormal DDR. We also found pathogenic or likely pathogenic secondary mutations in several genes that are primarily expressed in the gut that have been implicated in gut microbiome homeostasis (e.g., LGALS4, DUOX2, CCR9).These findings align with previous genetic findings and strengthen the hypothesis that abnormal DDR and mitochondrial dysfunction underly pathogenic processes in neuropsychiatric decompensation. The potential involvement of genetic variants in gut microbiome homeostasis is a novel aspect of our study. Functional characterization of the downstream impact of DDR deficits may point to novel treatment strategies.
Transcription-coupled repair (TCR) is a vital nucleotide excision repair sub-pathway that removes DNA lesions from actively transcribed DNA strands. Binding of CSB to lesion-stalled RNA Polymerase II (Pol II) initiates TCR by triggering the recruitment of downstream repair factors. Yet it remains unknown how transcription factor IIH (TFIIH) is recruited to the intact TCR complex. Combining existing structural data with AlphaFold predictions, we build an integrative model of the initial TFIIH-bound TCR complex. We show how TFIIH can be first recruited in an open repair-inhibited conformation, which requires subsequent CAK module removal and conformational closure to process damaged DNA. In our model, CSB, CSA, UVSSA, elongation factor 1 (ELOF1), and specific Pol II and UVSSA-bound ubiquitin moieties come together to provide interaction interfaces needed for TFIIH recruitment. STK19 acts as a linchpin of the assembly, orienting the incoming TFIIH and bridging Pol II to core TCR factors and DNA. Molecular simulations of the TCR-associated CRL4CSA ubiquitin ligase complex unveil the interplay of segmental DDB1 flexibility, continuous Cullin4A flexibility, and the key role of ELOF1 for Pol II ubiquitination that enables TCR. Collectively, these findings elucidate the coordinated assembly of repair proteins in early TCR.© 2025. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 39704188 is a review article
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301317
Metazoans utilize the small RNA pathway to regulate gene expression and maintain genome integrity. This pathway directs histone H3 lysine 9 tri-methylation (H3K9me3) or histone H3 lysine 27 tri-methylation (H3K27me3) at target loci to induce transcriptional gene silencing. Interestingly, some small RNAs are generated from genomic loci enriched in H3K9me3 or H3K27me3. However, the transcription mechanism of small RNA precursors from these heterochromatic regions remains unclear. In C. elegans, piRNAs originate from two genomic clusters enriched with H3K27me3 marks, which recruit the H3K27me3 reader UAD-2 and the upstream sequence transcription complex (USTC). Here, we demonstrate that piRNA transcription in C. elegans relies on TAF-12, a subunit of the basal transcription factor IID (TFIID). Depletion of TAF-12 reduces the production of both piRNA precursors and mature piRNAs. TAF-12 interacts with UAD-2 and facilitates piRNA focus formation in germ cell nuclei. We further show that TAF-12 triggers piRNA transcription by recruiting the RNA polymerase II subunit RPB-5, the Mediator complex subunit MDT-8, and the general transcription factors GTF-2F2 and GTF-2H2C. Thus, piRNA transcription within heterochromatic regions depends on the collaboration between histone modification readers, piRNA-specific transcription factors, and core transcription machinery.© 2025. The Author(s).
(1) Background: Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the most common lung cancer. Enhancer RNA (eRNA) has potential utility in the diagnosis, prognosis and treatment of cancer, but the role of eRNAs in NSCLC metastasis is not clear; (2) Methods: Differentially expressed transcription factors (DETFs), enhancer RNAs (DEEs), and target genes (DETGs) between primary NSCLC and metastatic NSCLC were identified. Prognostic DEEs (PDEEs) were screened by Cox regression analyses and a predicting model for metastatic NSCLC was constructed. We identified DEE interactions with DETFs, DETGs, reverse phase protein arrays (RPPA) protein chips, immunocytes, and pathways to construct a regulation network using Pearson correlation. Finally, the mechanisms and clinical significance were explained using multi-dimensional validation unambiguously; (3) Results: A total of 255 DEEs were identified, and 24 PDEEs were selected into the multivariate Cox regression model (AUC = 0.699). Additionally, the NSCLC metastasis-specific regulation network was constructed, and six key PDEEs were defined (ANXA8L1, CASTOR2, CYP4B1, GTF2H2C, PSMF1 and TNS4); (4) Conclusions: This study focused on the exploration of the prognostic value of eRNAs in the metastasis of NSCLC. Finally, six eRNAs were identified as potential markers for the prediction of metastasis of NSCLC.
Recent evidence suggested that the mRNA vaccine has been effective for many tumors, but its progress in gliomas was slow. In this study, we screened potential tumor antigens and suitable populations for mRNA vaccine to develop mRNA vaccine for glioma. We integrated the normalized RNA sequencing expression data and somatic mutation data from TCGA-GBM, TCGA-LGG, and CGGA datasets. Putative antigens in glioma were identified by selecting highly mutated genes with intimate correlation with clinical survival and immune infiltration. An unsupervised partition around medoids algorithm was utilized to stably cluster the patients into five different immune subtypes. Among them, IS1/2 was cold tumor with low tumor mutation burden (TMB), immunogenic cell death (ICDs), and immune checkpoints (ICPs), and IS4/5 was hot tumor with high TMB, ICDs, and ICPs. Monocle3 package was used to evaluate the immune status similarity and evolution in glioma, which identified cluster IS2A/2B within IS2 subtype to be more suitable vaccination receivers. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis identified five hub immune genes as the biomarkers of patients' immune status in glioma. In conclusion, NAT1, FRRS1, GTF2H2C, BRCA2, GRAP, NR5A2, ABCB4, ZNF90, ERCC6L, and ZNF813 are potential antigens suitable for glioma mRNA vaccine. IS1/2A/2B are suitable for mRNA vaccination.© 2022 The Authors. Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The commercial pork production sector prioritizes genetic improvements in lean meat percentage to enhance profitability and meet consumer preferences. The Pietrain pig, a premier terminal sire breed renowned for its exceptional muscularity and leanness, serves as an ideal model to decipher the genetic underpinnings of these traits. This study investigated two key measures of leanness, backfat thickness and loin muscle depth, in two distinct Pietrain populations to elucidate the genetic architecture underlying these traits. We estimated genetic parameters and performed a meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies, identifying ABCD4, LTBP2, NUMB, and SLC30A9 as candidate genes. To further investigate these associations, we integrated information on molecular quantitative trait loci from the PigGTEx project and single-cell transcriptomic resources. This integrative approach prioritized ABCD4 as a key candidate gene regulating backfat thickness. Functional validation in 3T3-L1 preadipocytes revealed a novel dual regulatory role for ABCD4: its knockdown suppressed cell proliferation while simultaneously stimulating adipogenic differentiation, as demonstrated by the upregulation of key markers. Our findings positioned ABCD4 as a critical modulator of fat deposition, likely through its influence on the core adipogenic transcriptional network. By establishing an analytical framework that integrates large-scale sequencing data from Pietrain pigs with functional validation, our study addresses a key gap in understanding the genetic basis of leanness and provides novel insights for precision breeding.© 2026 Stichting International Foundation for Animal Genetics.
To investigate the role of mitochondrial zinc (Zn) homeostasis in chemoresistance of osteosarcoma.Zinc levels were measured in osteosarcoma cells treated with methotrexate (MTX). The expression of SLC30A9 was analyzed in chemoresistant cells. SLC30A9 knockdown and overexpression osteosarcoma cell lines were constructed for functional studies, assessing mitochondrial zinc levels, mitochondrial function, and MTX sensitivity. Subcellular localization of SLC30A9 and its zinc efflux function were determined by immunofluorescence staining and mitochondrial zinc detection. The opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP), release of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), activation of the cGAS-STING pathway, NF-κB signaling, and NDRG1 transcription were analyzed. Xenograft mouse models were established to evaluate the effect of SLC30A9 knockdown combined with a STING agonist.MTX treatment elevated mitochondrial zinc levels, leading to mitochondrial dysfunction. SLC30A9 was highly expressed in chemoresistant osteosarcoma cells. Knockdown of SLC30A9 caused abnormal mitochondrial zinc accumulation, mitochondrial dysfunction, and reversed MTX resistance. SLC30A9 was localized to mitochondria and mediated zinc efflux; its loss triggered mtDNA release into the cytosol via mPTP, activating the cGAS-STING pathway, which in turn promoted NF-κB-driven transcription of the pro-apoptotic molecule NDRG1. In vivo, SLC30A9 knockdown combined with STING-agonist3 enhanced the chemotherapeutic effect of MTX.SLC30A9 maintains a low-zinc environment and mitochondrial integrity, thereby inhibiting mtDNA-mediated cGAS-STING pathway activation. Targeting SLC30A9 to disrupt this protective mechanism provides a novel therapeutic strategy for overcoming chemoresistance in osteosarcoma.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Zinc oxide nanoparticles (ZnO NPs) have been recognized as emerging contaminants, and their increasing environmental release has been verified to be associated with multiple adverse developmental consequences. However, data on the childhood stunting and the underlying mechanisms of ZnO NPs remain largely unclear. In this study, we employed Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans), a valuable animal model with high genetic similarity to humans, to explore the effects of ZnO NPs on larval development and reveal the subcellular mechanisms. Our findings showed that ZnO NPs significantly induced developmental delay, characterized by reduced body length/width and fertilized egg numbers (p < 0.05). Subcellular studies indicated that ZnO NPs markedly disturbed mitochondrial function, triggered excessive reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, activated ferritinophagy, and promoted ferroptosis. With the help of ferroptosis inhibitor ferrostatin-1, iron chelator deferoxamine, autophagy inhibitor chloroquine, and ROS scavenger catalase, we found that mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC)-derived ROS triggered ferritinophagy-mediated ferroptotic cascade, leading to developmental delay when exposed to ZnO NPs. Notably, through RNAi-mediated silencing of slc-30a9 and the use of zinc chelator TPEN, the data further indicated that ZnO NPs downregulated the mitochondrial zinc exporter SLC-30A9, which served as the key initiating event in ROS accumulation. Overall, our results identify the SLC-30A9-mediated ferritinophagy-ferroptosis axis as a key mechanism driving ZnO NP-induced developmental delay, providing potential therapeutic targets for nanoparticle-related health disorders.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
While most individuals with familial medullary thyroid carcinoma (fMTC) carry RET mutations, in some instances the causative mutations remain unknown. We studied two related families with RET -negative fMTC in 21 affected individuals through linkage analysis, exome/genome sequencing, and high-density array comparative genomic hybridization. We identified a novel heterozygous 40kb intragenic SLC30A9 deletion which segregated with the disease in all affected individuals. The mutant transcript escaped nonsense-mediated decay and resulted in the production of N-terminally truncated proteins via translation reinitiation from in-frame AUG codons located downstream of the deletion. These proteins showed increased stability and their expression in an MTC cell line increased cell proliferation and clonogenic capacity, supporting an oncogenic role. These findings expand the genetic background of fMTC beyond RET mutations and implicate translation reinitiation in the etiology of cancer susceptibility syndromes secondary to structural genomic variants.
Zinc is essential for cellular homeostasis and acts both as a structural element and a secondary messenger in intracellular signalling. While the role of SLC39 (former ZIP) family transporters in breast cancer biology is intensively studied, the signalling function of SLC30 family transporters (former ZnT) remains insufficiently explored. This study investigates the involvement of SLC30 transporters in oestrogen receptor-positive (ER+) breast cancer. Bioinformatic and experimental analyses revealed that SLC30 transporters, particularly SLC30A1, SLC30A5, and SLC30A9, regulate the PTP/AKT/ESR1 pathway, contributing to hormone-independent ESR1 activation. Zn-dependent inhibition of PTP phosphatases modulates kinase signalling, promoting proliferation. Notably, high SLC30 expression correlates with improved survival, but serves as a negative prognostic marker under tamoxifen treatment. Here, we evidence that ESR1 directly represses SLC30 transcription and that zinc transporters form a regulatory feedback loop sustaining ER+ breast tumour progression. These findings position SLC30 transporters as active participants in signalling cascades, offering novel targets for therapeutic intervention in ER+ breast cancer.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Peritoneal metastasis (PM) remains a primary cause of poor prognosis in advanced gastric cancer (GC). While anoikis resistance enables detached tumor cells to survive and promotes invasion and metastasis, its specific mechanisms in GC related PM are not yet fully understood.Anoikis related differentially expressed genes were identified using GC samples from the TCGA and GEO databases. Molecular subtypes were characterized by non negative matrix factorization (NMF) clustering. Survival outcomes were assessed via Kaplan-Meier analysis, and functional profiles were evaluated through pathway enrichment scoring. A prognostic risk model was constructed by combining weighted gene co expression network analysis (WGCNA) with Lasso-Cox regression. For PM diagnosis, characteristic genes were screened using support vector machine (SVM) and random forest (RF) algorithms to build a diagnostic model. Experimental validation was performed to confirm the expression and functional role of SRPX2.GC was stratified into two molecular subtypes. Subtype A showed marked enrichment of anoikis resistance related factors and was associated with significantly poorer prognosis. A six gene prognostic signature (HEYL, SRPX2, LBH, PLAT, ITGAV, HTRA1) was established and validated externally. A nine gene diagnostic panel (SLC30A9, ZFHX4, CYTB, NDFIP2, NMNAT2, SRPX2, TBC1D8B, CLEC3B, CHRDL2) was also constructed for PM. SRPX2 was identified as an independent prognostic marker and a PM associated biomarker, highly expressed in cancer associated fibroblasts (CAFs). Functional studies demonstrated that SRPX2 promotes GC progression and peritoneal metastasis by activating the FAK/AKT pathway and IL-6 paracrine signaling, thereby inducing anoikis resistance.This study proposes an anoikis based molecular classification of GC and develops both prognostic and diagnostic models for PM. It further reveals that SRPX2 driven anoikis resistance, mediated through the FAK/AKT-IL-6 axis, facilitates peritoneal metastasis. These findings provide new directions for prognostic assessment and therapeutic strategies in gastric cancer.Copyright © 2026 Hou, Yu, Xie, Zhou, Zeng, Liang, Zheng, Tan and Han.
The progression of spermatogenesis is under dynamic transcriptional regulation. As a subunit of the transcription-export complex 2 (TREX-2), PCI domain-containing protein 2 (PCID2), participates in RNA processing. However, the physiological functions of PCID2 in spermatogenesis remain poorly understood. Here, we generate germline conditional knockout (Pcid2-SKO) mice using Stra8-Cre, and it is found that Pcid2-SKO mice are infertile, exhibit extensive germ cell apoptosis, impaired spermatogonial differentiation, and failure of meiosis initiation. Single-cell transcriptome analysis reveals developmental arrest at the transition from type A to type B spermatogonia in Pcid2-SKO mice. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) demonstrates a significant decrease in the enrichment of mRNA splicing pathway in Pcid2-SKO germ cells. IP-MS results indicate candidate proteins interacting with PCID2 are significantly enriched in RNA splicing pathway. Co-IP results indicate that PCID2 interacts with SNRPG, hnRNPH1 and SF3B1 to modulate alternative splicing in germ cells. Combining RNA sequencing and PCR identifies four key genes (Prpf3, Nek3, Dvl2, and Slc30a9) as splicing targets of PCID2. Collectively, PCID2 is essential for normal spermatogenesis and male fertility by regulating the alternative splicing (AS) of genes critical for cell cycle progression, spliceosome assembly, and mitochondrial homeostasis. This study provides novel insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying spermatogenesis and highlights the importance of AS in germ cell development.© 2025. The Author(s).
Mitochondrial hyperfunction is important for cervical cancer progression. Solute carrier family 30 member 9 (SLC30A9) is a member of the solute carrier family 30, specifically a zinc transporter that plays a critical role in mitochondrial zinc homeostasis and maintaining mitochondrial function. We investigated the expression, function, and underlying mechanisms of SLC30A9 in the context of cervical cancer. Single-cell RNA sequencing analysis revealed a marked overexpression of SLC30A9 within the malignant epithelial cell population of cervical squamous cell carcinoma. This elevated SLC30A9 expression was further corroborated in clinical specimens from local patients and across various established and primary cervical cancer cells. SLC30A9 shRNA or knockout (via CRISPR/Cas9 method) significantly impeded the viability, proliferation, cell cycle progression and migration, and triggered apoptosis in cervical cancer cells. SLC30A9 depletion disrupted mitochondrial function, inhibiting mitochondrial respiration, mitochondrial membrane potential, mitochondrial complex I activity, and ATP production, also caused mitochondrial Zn2+ accumulation, reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and oxidative injury. Conversely, overexpression of SLC30A9 in cervical cancer cells demonstrated enhanced mitochondrial complex I activity, increased ATP production, and augmented cellular proliferation and migration. Bioinformatic analysis, coupled with functional validation, identified PRDM1 (PR Domain Containing 1) as a key transcription factor regulating SLC30A9 expression. Silencing or knockout of PRDM1 resulted in a significant reduction in SLC30A9 promoter activity, as well as decreased SLC30A9 mRNA and protein levels in primary cervical cancer cells. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays confirmed increased PRDM1 binding to the SLC30A9 promoter region in cervical cancer tissues. In vivo studies showed that SLC30A9 knockdown led to a remarkable decrease in the growth of xenografts formed by primary cervical cancer cells. These SLC30A9-silenced xenografts exhibited mitochondrial dysfunction, proliferation inhibition and apoptosis induction. These findings collectively suggest that PRDM1-driven SLC30A9 overexpression significantly contributes to the malignant phenotype of cervical cancer, possibly through promoting mitochondrial hyperfunction.© 2025. The Author(s).
SLC30A9 mutations are linked to Birk-Landau-Perez syndrome, which is characterized by neurodevelopmental and renal disease, thought to result from impaired zinc homeostasis. In this report, we describe a patient with a homozygous likely pathogenic SLC30A9 variant with atypical chorio-retinal degeneration, suggesting retinal involvement in SLC30A9-associated diseases. The patient has bilateral sensorineural hearing loss, developmental delay, intellectual disability, abnormal balance, and Tourette syndrome. Ophthalmic manifestations include vascular attenuation, optic disc pallor, and pigmentation. In addition, the patient is noted to have high myopia. Our case highlights the importance of broad genetic testing in diagnosing rare multi-systemic disorders. Further research into the molecular mechanisms by which SLC30A9 results in photoreceptor disease is essential to understand its role in retinal degeneration and to develop potential therapeutic strategies.© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
This study aimed to identify key genes regulating plasma cell (PC) infiltration in kidney renal clear cell carcinoma (KIRC) and construct a novel prognostic model for predicting KIRC. Clear cell renal cell carcinoma is the most common malignant tumor type of the kidney, with an increasing incidence rate and low survival rates in advanced patients. Plasma cells (PCs), as terminally differentiated B cells, produce highly specific antibodies that effectively target and kill tumors through the antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) mechanism. Growing evidence has shown that PC infiltration is closely associated with the progression of various malignant tumors, including ccRCC. Therefore, identifying PC infiltration-related biomarkers is of great significance for the prognosis and treatment of ccRCC patients. Machine learning was used to determine PC-related key genes in KIRC patients. A prognostic model termed PC score was developed using TCGA and ArrayExpress data and validated in external cohorts. The molecular background, immune characteristics, and drug sensitivity of the high PC score group were evaluated. Single-cell sequencing was employed to assess the expression of hub genes in KIRC patients. We identified 9 hub genes associated with PC infiltration, including 3 risk genes (ADAM8, KCNN4, and TCIRG1) and 6 protective genes (RAG1, ATPEV1D, CDKL2, RUNDC3B, SLC30A9, and PPARGC1A), and constructed a PC score based on these key genes. Older age, advanced TNM stage, and higher PC score were independent predictors of shorter overall survival. A nomogram model integrating age, stage, and PC score showed significantly higher predictive value than staging alone (P < 0.01). The high PC score group exhibited a higher abundance of immune cells (e.g., activated B cells, activated CD8 + T cells) in the tumor microenvironment. Drug sensitivity analysis revealed that tyrosine kinase inhibitors (e.g., ceritinib, imatinib) potently inhibited cancer cell lines in the high PC score group, while inhibitors like acalabrutinib were effective in the low PC score group. Patients with higher risk scores showed greater sensitivity to ofloxacin and cortivazol (a cortisol hormone). Expression of hub genes in KIRC patients was validated using a local cohort and single-cell sequencing. We identified key genes regulating PC infiltration in KIRC and proposed a predictive model that effectively identifies high-risk KIRC patients.© 2025. The Author(s).
The Leydig cell is one of the components that make up the testicular microenvironment, playing a crucial role in male reproductive function by secreting androgens and cytokines. The present study found that knocking down NR2C2, a member of the 2C group of the nuclear receptor family, can lead to senescent phenotype in mouse primary Leydig cells, with increased cell apoptosis and DNA damage, enhanced SA-β-Gal activity, and decreased glutathione levels. The fertility of Nr2c2 heterozygous knockout mice (Nr2c2+/-) is impaired. The testosterone levels of Nr2c2+/- mice at 12 months of age were lower than those of wild-type littermates of the same age, accompanied by increased expression of P21 protein in testicular tissue. Mechanistically, NR2C2 promotes transcription of target genes such as Akt2 and Qsox2 by binding to DR elements on their promoters. In addition, NR2C2 participates in regulating alternative splicing of target mRNAs (Rnf111, Cdkn2c, Igf1r and Fnip2) at the post transcriptional level by interacting with hnRNPH1 or other splicing factors. Our study for the first time reveals that NR2C2 is a core regulatory factor in resisting aging in testicular Leydig cells. It provides a novel potential target for male infertility and reproductive aging-related disorders.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
CD31 (PECAM-1) plays a critical role in T cell migration, whilst its immunoreceptor tyrosine inhibitory motifs (ITIMs), Y663 and Y686, are recognised for their roles in endothelial function, the precise mechanism in regulating immune cell remains elusive. Here, we demonstrate that CD31 is essential for Treg migration. Upon ITIM engagement, CD31 activates and interacts with the protein tyrosine phosphatase SHP2. In vivo, CD31 Y663F gene transfer recapitulates the wild-type migration phenotype, driven by a metabolic switch to fructose utilisation under the regulation of the PFKFB3 gene. Conversely, the Y686F mutation impairs Tregs migration by disrupting both glycolysis and the switch to fructose metabolism, thus promoting the mitochondrial function via activation of the RNF111/OGT pathway. Our findings reveal a novel role for CD31 ITIMs in orchestrating a metabolic that is switch crucial for Treg migration. This understanding of CD31 polymorphisms and their impact on Treg migration offers potential therapeutic avenues for autoimmune diseases, particularly rheumatoid arthritis (RA). KEY POINTS: CD31 Y663F-mutant Tregs exhibit a glucose-to-fructose metabolic shift, characterised by reduced glucose uptake and enhanced fructose utilisation regulated by PFKFB3. CD31 Y686F mutation disrupts both glycolysis and fructose metabolism in Tregs, shifting energy production towards mitochondrial function via the RNF111/OGT pathway. These findings highlight a novel mechanism by which CD31 ITIMs control Treg migration, offering new therapeutic targets for autoimmune diseases such as RA.© 2025 The Author(s). Clinical and Translational Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Shanghai Institute of Clinical Bioinformatics.
Ubiquitylation is a critical post-translational modification that is required for cell vitality. Attachment of ubiquitin is complex, with the fate of ubiquitylated proteins determined by the length of the attached ubiquitin chains and the nature of the linkage used to build the chains. Many E3 ligases attach ubiquitin chains of different types to substrate proteins in a context specific manner, but the molecular details of how E3 ligases specify chains of different types is poorly understood. Arkadia/RNF111 is a large RING E3 ligase that modifies some substrates with degradative ubiquitin chains, while other substrates are modified with non-degradative ubiquitin chains. Here, using Arkadia and the related E3 ligase, Ark2C, we characterize the RING-E2 complexes that promote assembly of ubiquitin chains of distinct linkages. Our structural studies highlight the conserved nature of the RING-E2 interface, while our binding and activity assays reveal several different E2 enzymes that functionally interact with Ark2C and Arkadia. Using Arkadia, substrate ubiquitylation assays reveal differences in the ability for substrates to be modified, with the E2 enzymes Ubc13 and Ube2K requiring addition of a 'priming' ubiquitin molecule before subsequent modification can occur. We also show that substrates that bind Arkadia tightly are more extensively modified, and that prior substrate ubiquitylation enhances subsequent modification. While further studies will be required to understand how RING-E2 pairing is modulated in cells, this study advances our understanding of E2 recruitment and chain assembly by Arkadia and provides tools that may help dissect cellular function.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Data on the genetic factors contributing to inter-individual variability in muscle fiber size are limited. Recent research has demonstrated that mice lacking the Arkadia (RNF111) N-terminal-like PKA signaling regulator 2N (Ark2n; also known as C18orf25) gene exhibit reduced muscle fiber size, contraction force, and exercise capacity, along with defects in calcium handling within fast-twitch muscle fibers. However, the role of the ARK2N gene in human muscle physiology, and particularly in athletic populations, remains poorly understood. The aim of this study was threefold: (a) to compare ARK2N gene expression between power and endurance athletes; (b) to analyze the relationship between ARK2N gene expression and muscle fiber composition; and (c) to investigate the association between the functional variant of the ARK2N gene, muscle fiber size, and sport-related phenotypes.We found that ARK2N gene expression was significantly higher in power athletes compared to endurance athletes (p = 0.042) and was positively associated with the proportion of oxidative fast-twitch (type IIA) muscle fibers in untrained subjects (p = 0.017, adjusted for age and sex). Additionally, we observed that the ARK2N rs6507691 T allele, which predicts high ARK2N gene expression (p = 3.8 × 10-12), was associated with a greater cross-sectional area of fast-twitch muscle fibers in strength athletes (p = 0.015) and was over-represented in world-class strength athletes (38.6%; OR = 2.2, p = 0.023) and wrestlers (33.8%; OR = 1.8, p = 0.044) compared to controls (22.0%).In conclusion, ARK2N appears to be a gene specific to oxidative fast-twitch myofibers, with its functional variant being associated with muscle fiber size and strength-athlete status.
The ubiquitination or SUMOylation of hematopoietic-related factors plays pivotal roles in hematopoiesis. RNF111, known as a ubiquitin ligase, is a newly discovered SUMO-targeted ubiquitin ligase involved in multiple signaling pathways mediated by transforming growth factor (TGF)-β family members. However, its role in hematopoiesis remains unclear. Herein, a heritable Rnf111 mutant zebrafish line was generated by CRISPR/Cas9-mediated genome editing. Impairment of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPC) of definitive hematopoiesis was found in Rnf111-deficient mutants. Ablation of Rnf111 resulted in decreased phosphorylation of Smad2/3 in HSPC. Definitive endoderm 2 inducer (IDE2), which specifically activates TGF-β signaling and downstream Smad2 phosphorylation, could restore definitive hematopoiesis in Rnf111-deficient embryos. Further molecular mechanism studies revealed that Gcsfr/NO signaling was an important target pathway of Smad2/3 involved in Rnf111-mediated HSPC development. In conclusion, our study demonstrated that Rnf111 contributes to the development of HSPC by maintaining Smad2/3 phosphorylation and activation of the Gcsfr/NO signaling pathway.
Premature ovarian insufficiency (POI) is a heterogeneous female disorder characterized by the loss of ovarian function before the age of 40. It represents a significant detriment to female fertility. However, the known POI-causative genes currently account for only a fraction of cases. To elucidate the genetic factors underlying POI, we conducted whole-exome sequencing on a family with three fertile POI patients and identified a deleterious missense variant in RNF111. In a subsequent replication study involving 1,030 POI patients, this variant was not only confirmed but also accompanied by the discovery of three additional predicted deleterious RNF111 variants. These variants collectively account for eight cases, representing 0.78% of the study cohort. A further study involving 500 patients with diminished ovarian reserve also identified two additional RNF111 variants. Notably, RNF111 encodes an E3 ubiquitin ligase with a regulatory role in the TGF-β/BMP signaling pathway. Our analysis revealed that RNF111/RNF111 is predominantly expressed in the oocytes of mice, monkeys, and humans. To further investigate the functional implications of RNF111 variants, we generated two mouse models: one with a heterozygous missense mutation (Rnf111+/M) and another with a heterozygous null mutation (Rnf111+/-). Both mouse models exhibited impaired female fertility, characterized by reduced litter sizes and small ovarian reserve. Additionally, RNA-seq and quantitative proteomics analysis unveiled that Rnf111 haploinsufficiency led to dysregulation in female gonad development and negative regulation of the BMP signaling pathway within mouse ovaries. In conclusion, our findings strongly suggest that monoallelic deleterious variants in RNF111 can impair female fertility and induce POI in both humans and mice.© 2024. Science China Press.
The aim of this study was to investigate the role and mechanism of circ-RNF111 in the human ovarian cancer cell line SKOV-3. First, qRT-PCR was used to detect circ-RNF111 and miR-556-5p expression levels in human normal ovarian epithelial cells IOSE80 and human ovarian cancer cells SKOV-3. CCK-8 and colony formation assays were adopted to determine the proliferation rate and cell viability of SKOV-3 cells, respectively. Additionally, in an attempt to reveal the mechanism of circ-RNF111, we predicted the targeting relationship between miR-556-5p and circ-RNF111 as well as miR-556-5p and CCND1 using the circinteractome and TargetScan databases, respectively, and validated their relationship by dual-luciferase reporter assay. The protein expression levels of CCND1 in SKOV-3 cells were detected by Western blot. Based on the above experiments, the expression of circ-RNF111 was found to be up-regulated in SKOV-3, and the knockdown of circ-RNF111 significantly inhibited the proliferation and viability of SKOV-3 cells. Then we confirmed that circ-RNF111 sponged miR-556-5p in SKOV-3 cells to up-regulate CCND1 expression. In addition, simultaneous inhibition of miR-556-5p or overexpression of CCND1 in SKOV-3 cells with knockdown of circ-RNF111 reversed the inhibitory effect of knockdown of circ-RNF111 on the protein expression level of CCND1, cell proliferation rate, and cell viability. In summary, circ-RNF111 promotes the proliferation of SKOV-3 cells by targeting the miR-556-5p/CCND1 axis. Circ-RNF111 may serve as a potential target for ovarian cancer therapy.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Mutations within the ectodysplasin A (EDA) gene have been associated with congenital hypotrichosis and anodontia (HAD/XHED) in humans, mice, dogs and cattle. We identified a three-generation family of Fleckvieh cattle with male calves exhibiting clinical and histopathological signs consistent with an X-linked recessive HAD (XHED). Whole genome and Sanger sequencing of cDNA showed a perfect association of the missense mutation g.85716041G>A (ss2019497443, rs1114816375) within the EDA gene with all three cases following an X-linked recessive inheritance, but normal EDAR and EDARADD. This mutation causes an exchange of glycine (G) with arginine (R) at amino acid position 227 (p.227G>R) in the second collagen triple helix repeat domain of EDA. The EDA variant was associated with a significant reduction and underdevelopment of hair follicles along with a reduced outgrowth of hairs, a complete loss of seromucous nasolabial and mucous tracheal and bronchial glands and a malformation of and reduction in number of teeth. Thermostability of EDA G227R was reduced, consistent with a relatively mild hair and tooth phenotype. However, incisors and canines were more severely affected in one of the calves, which correlated with the presence of a homozygous missense mutation of RNF111 (g.51306765T>G), a putative candidate gene possibly associated with tooth number in EDA-deficient Fleckvieh calves.
Skipped: PubMed ID 38047137 is a review article
The Boom syndrome helicase (BLM) unwinds a variety of DNA structures such as Guanine (G)-quadruplex. Here we reveal a role of RNF111/Arkadia and its paralog ARKL1, as well as Promyelocytic Leukemia Nuclear Bodies (PML NBs), in the regulation of ubiquitination and control of BLM protein levels. RNF111 exhibits a non-canonical SUMO targeted E3 ligase (STUBL) activity targeting BLM ubiquitination in PML NBs. ARKL1 promotes RNF111 localization to PML NBs through SUMO-interacting motif (SIM) interaction with SUMOylated RNF111, which is regulated by casein kinase 2 (CK2) phosphorylation of ARKL1 at a serine residue near the ARKL1 SIM domain. Upregulated BLM in ARKL1 or RNF111-deficient cells leads to a decrease of G-quadruplex levels in the nucleus. These results demonstrate that a CK2- and RNF111-ARKL1-dependent regulation of BLM in PML NBs plays a critical role in controlling BLM protein levels for the regulation of G-quadruplex.© 2023. Springer Nature Limited.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42537405
Medulloblastoma (MB) with MYC amplification is associated with aggressive clinical behavior and a high risk of metastatic dissemination. Extraneural metastasis (ENM), although rare in the modern treatment era, remains a devastating manifestation linked to poor survival. We report a pediatric case of MB with high-level MYC amplification and NanoString-based molecular subgrouping confirming Group 3 identity in a 9-year-old girl who developed rapidly progressive and widespread ENMs involving the bone marrow, liver, lymph nodes, and peritoneum shortly after craniospinal irradiation. Planned adjuvant chemotherapy could not be initiated because of persistent cytopenias associated with marrow infiltration during disease progression. Targeted next-generation sequencing identified somatic alterations in PTEN, ARID2, and ERCC6, as well as a heterozygous germline SLX4 variant of uncertain clinical significance. While these findings do not establish a causal role in tumor progression, they further illustrate the molecular complexity of high-risk MB. The clinical course observed in this patient is consistent with prior reports linking MYC amplification to aggressive metastatic behavior. This case underscores the challenges of managing molecularly high-risk MB and highlights the importance of comprehensive molecular characterization and timely systemic therapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1), a copper-dependent antioxidant, is essential for redox homeostasis, and its decline drives renal senescence and fibrosis. However, the mechanisms linking profibrotic signaling to SOD1 inhibition remain unclear. Here, we identified a pathological copper-COMMD1-SOD1 axis in which intracellular copper overload paradoxically suppressed SOD1 activity. In kidney tissues from chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients and complementary in vivo and in vitro fibrotic models, we consistently observed a reduction in SOD1 activity accompanied by elevated intracellular copper levels. Lowering intracellular copper levels restored SOD1 activity, suppressed reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation, and alleviated cell senescence and fibrosis. Mechanistically, pathological copper overload impaired SOD1 homodimerization, the essential final step in its activation. We identified copper metabolism MURR1 domain containing 1 (COMMD1) as a key copper-sensitive mediator of this process. Copper overload acted upstream, simultaneously upregulating COMMD1 expression and enhancing its binding affinity to SOD1. This enhanced COMMD1-SOD1 interaction directly disrupted SOD1 homodimer assembly and enzymatic function. Collectively, these findings redefined the regulatory role of copper in SOD1 activity and uncovered a previously unrecognized mechanism by which pathological copper overload paradoxically suppressed SOD1 activity via COMMD1-dependent disruption of SOD1 homodimerization, providing new insight into the pathophysiology of copper dyshomeostasis-associated diseases.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Inducing the transition of tumor cells into normal hepatocyte-like cells represents a promising therapeutic strategy for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, safe and effective inducers are currently lacking, and the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. This study aimed to investigate whether tumor supernatant (Tsn) under mild hyperthermia conditions could induce the transition of HepG2 cells into normal hepatocyte-like cells and to elucidate the potential mechanisms involved. HepG2 cells were treated at 42.5 °C for 60 min, and the post-treatment tumor supernatant (42.5Tsn) was collected. Transcriptome sequencing was performed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between the 42.5Tsn and 37Tsn treatment groups. Compared with the 37Tsn group, 446 DEGs were identified in the 42.5Tsn group. These DEGs were enriched in pathways related to DNA damage repair, cell cycle arrest, and nuclear receptor signaling. Among the 33 core genes, tumor suppressor genes (BRCA1, PALB2, SLX4) were significantly upregulated, while nuclear transcription factors that maintain stemness, such as HEY1, were significantly downregulated. Tsn induced by mild hyperthermia demonstrates the potential to promote the transition of HepG2 cells toward normal hepatocyte-like cells while suppressing their metastatic potential. However, due to the complex composition of Tsn and the transcriptome-only level of this analysis, the specific active factors, causal regulatory mechanisms, and in vivo efficacy require further validation through component analysis, functional assays, and animal models.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s10616-026-01011-w.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Cardiomyocyte senescence drives cardiovascular disease, underscoring the need to define its molecular mechanisms. The role of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) ion channel in this process remains unclear, particularly regarding its expression and function. Atrial tissues were collected from patients with sinus rhythm or atrial fibrillation (AF) of varying durations. CFTR was downregulated in AF patients and negatively correlated with p16, p21, and p53. Myocardial aging models were established using D-galactose (D-gal) in both mice and neonatal mouse cardiomyocytes (CMs). In both animal and cellular models, D-gal increased SA-β-gal positivity and senescence markers while decreasing CFTR. Overexpressing CFTR reduced D-gal-induced elevations in p16, p21, p53, and malondialdehyde (MDA), and restored superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), and catalase (CAT) activities. Mechanistically, CFTR alleviates mitochondrial oxidative stress damage by enhancing plasma membrane Ca2+ ATPase (PMCA) activity to reduce cytoplasmic Ca2+ levels. Furthermore, we identified USP45 as a direct binding partner of CFTR, which deubiquitinates CFTR by specifically targeting K48-linked chains and the K688 residue. CFTR knockdown exacerbated D-gal-induced senescence and mitochondrial oxidative stress, which was rescued by USP45 overexpression. In conclusion, this study reveals a novel mechanism in which USP45-mediated deubiquitination of CFTR mitigates cardiomyocyte senescence and mitochondrial oxidative stress, offering a targeted intervention against age-related cardiovascular diseases.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Copper (Cu) homeostasis dysregulation is one of the key factor exacerbating mitochondrial dysfunction and impairing cardiac repair in myocardial infarction (MI). Herein, by integrating single-cell transcriptomics, clinical specimens, and animal models, we first identified COMMD1 as a key negative regulator of Cu homeostasis in MI. We then constructed a Cu nanoregulator, Qu@Cu-SS31, that selectively accumulate in the mitochondria of ischemic cardiomyocytes and release bioactive Cu2+ in a pH-responsive manner, enhancing mitochondrial function and promoting myocardial recovery. Mechanistic studies revealed that Qu@Cu-SS31 mediated significant downregulation of COMMD1, concomitant with downregulation of Cu transporters CTR1 and CCS. Additionally, Qu@Cu-SS31 showed robust reactive oxygen species scavenging ability. This COMMD1-Cu-ROS regulatory axis potently inhibited NLRP3-Caspase-1 dependent pyroptosis, and apoptosis via rebalance of Bcl-2/Bax expression. In a mice MI model, Qu@Cu-SS31 exhibited preferential accumulation in infarcted regions, leading to significant functional recovery, reduced infarct size, and enhanced tissue regeneration. Our work establishes a novel nanoregulator for Cu homeostasis restoration and illustrates the critical role of COMMD1 downregulation in mitigating mitochondrial damage, highlighting the therapeutic potential of Cu homeostasis regulation in cardiovascular applications.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
DNA replication stress can generate mitotic defects because incompletely replicated chromosomes or unresolved replication intermediates tether sister chromatids and hinder their segregation. We and others recently uncovered a mitotic role for the oncoprotein CIP2A, which promotes chromosome stability and is essential in homologous recombination-deficient (HRD) cells. However, how CIP2A safeguards mitotic genome integrity remains unclear. Here, we investigate the role of CIP2A in mitotic responses to replication stress. We show that replication stress induces a strong increase in CIP2A foci during mitosis, highlighting its involvement in processing under-replicated DNA. In wild-type cells, CIP2A is required for efficient recruitment of the scaffold SLX4 and the nucleases MUS81 and XPF to sites of under-replicated DNA. CIP2A loss disrupts this recruitment and leads to increased anaphase lagging chromosomes and micronuclei formation. CIP2A also contributes to mitotic DNA synthesis (MiDAS), although this varies across cell lines, indicating that MiDAS and SMX complex recruitment are not strictly coupled. Together, our findings identify CIP2A as a regulator of mitotic processing of under-replicated DNA and provide a framework for understanding context-dependent vulnerabilities in cancer cells.© 2026. The Author(s).
Mutations in superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) compromise its metal-binding capacity, resulting in protein misfolding and aggregation, which ultimately induces cellular apoptosis in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Copper metabolism domain containing 1 (COMMD1), a gene implicated in copper homeostasis, has not been thoroughly characterized in the context of ALS pathogenesis. In this study, we identified elevated COMMD1 expression in ALS, potentially contributing to diminished copper incorporation into SOD1. Knockdown of COMMD1 enhanced palmitoylation of the copper chaperone for SOD1 (CCS), facilitating its membrane translocation and promoting copper loading into SOD1, thereby conferring neuroprotection in ALS. Mechanistically, we established that COMMD1 knockdown augments CCS palmitoylation via activation of the hypoxia-inducible factor 1 subunit alpha (HIF-1α)/fatty acid synthase (FASN) signaling axis. In vivo investigations utilizing male hSOD1G93A transgenic mice demonstrated that COMMD1 deficiency markedly ameliorated the deterioration of motor function and prolonged survival duration. These findings collectively suggest that COMMD1 represents a potential therapeutic target for ALS intervention.Copyright © 2026 the authors.
SLX4 is a scaffold protein pivotal in genome protection mechanisms ranging from homologous recombination and interstrand cross-link (ICL) repair to mechanisms that deal with challenged DNA replication. Many of human SLX4 functions rely on its ability to interact and control the XPF-ERCC1, MUS81-EME1, and SLX1 structure-specific endonucleases. Interaction with MUS81 relies on the conserved SAP domain of SLX4. Since the same domain in yeast Slx4 orthologs does not interact with Mus81, we investigated whether human SLX4 SAP might have retained some ancestral MUS81-independent functions. We show that human SLX4 SAP binds DNA with a preference for branched structures such as Holliday junctions. We further discovered that phosphorylation of SLX4 SAP by CDK1, which promotes interaction with MUS81, inhibits DNA binding. We identified separation of function mutants that impair either DNA or MUS81 binding. Binding to MUS81 is required in response to ICL-inducing agents, methyl methanesulfonate (MMS), TOP1, and PARP inhibition. Instead, DNA binding is required in response to ICL-inducing agents and MMS but not after TOP1 or PARP inhibition. Our work indicates that phosphorylation by CDK1 acts as a regulatory switch between DNA binding and MUS81-dependent functions of SLX4, to accommodate specific DNA lesions or secondary structures.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Background: Most patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) present with advanced disease and have limited systemic treatment options. Oxaliplatin shows clinical activity in HCC but its effectiveness is frequently curtailed by intrinsic and acquired resistance. We sought to systematically identify genetic vulnerabilities that increase oxaliplatin sensitivity in HCC. Methods: Genome-scale negative-selection CRISPR-Cas9 screens were conducted in two genetically distinct HCC cell lines (Hep3B and MHCC-97H) under low-dose oxaliplatin to discover conserved determinants of sensitivity. Selected DNA damage response (DDR) hits were validated. An oxaliplatin-resistant MHCC-97H subline was generated for transcriptomic profiling to characterize resistance-associated programs. Screen results were integrated with TCGA-LIHC expression and survival data to evaluate clinical relevance. Additionally, we analyzed bulk RNA-seq data from biopsy specimens collected from 36 HCC patients prior to initiation of hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy (HAIC), comparing expression levels of the DDR genes between patients with objective response and non-responders. Results: Screens in both cell lines converged on DDR pathways, particularly nucleotide excision repair (NER) and the Fanconi anemia/interstrand crosslink repair network; shared sensitizers included ERCC4 (XPF), FANCE and SLX4. Validation experiments showed that disruption of representative DDR factors (POLH and XPA) synergistically increased oxaliplatin efficacy at concentrations as low as 0.5 μM. Transcriptomic analysis of the resistant MHCC-97H subline revealed coordinated upregulation of DNA repair programs, G2/M checkpoint and E2F target signatures, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition features. Integration with TCGA-LIHC data demonstrated frequent overexpression of many screen-identified DDR genes in primary HCC and an association between higher expression of selected factors and poorer patient survival. In the HAIC cohort, several DDR genes, including ATR, BRCA2, CDK7, MUS81, MUTYH, PARG, POLH, POLK and XPA, were significantly lower in the objective response group. Conclusions: DDR components represent candidate biomarkers and therapeutic targets whose inhibition may enhance oxaliplatin efficacy in HCC.
Early prediction of hematological acute radiation syndrome (H-ARS) saves lives. For H-ARS severity prediction, we established a four-gene panel (FDXR, DDB2, POU2AF1, WNT3) using leukemia patients and non-human primates. Further confirmation in 12 minipigs failed, due to a weak response of these genes after irradiation.Here, we intended to confirm previous findings using a larger cohort (n = 19) and assess the impact of Myelo001 on clinical progression and gene expression. All minipigs received 2.1 Gy total-body irradiation (LD ≈ 40/30). The study included an irradiated control group and two irradiated groups treated with Myelo001 (11 or 15 days). Peripheral blood was collected six days before and on days 1-, 3-, and 10 after irradiation. RNA was isolated, reverse-transcribed, and analyzed by qRT-PCR using TaqMan assays. Differential gene expression (DGE) was calculated relative to pre-irradiation samples.WNT3 was undetectable in most animals. No significant difference in gene expression, survival, or clinical progression were found between Myelo001-treated and untreated animals, so treatment groups were pooled for DGE analyses. Across all time points, no significant changes in DGE were observed, except for slight DDB2 upregulation on day 3 (DGE = 2.3). The expected pattern of upregulated (DGE >2) FDXR/DDB2 with simultaneous downregulation (DGE <0.5) of POU2AF1, was absent (except on day one in one minipig). This missing pattern contrasted with an on average 5.5-fold reduction in lymphocyte counts, indicative of severe H-ARS. Also, no age or sex related changes were observed.This independent minipig study confirms previous work showing that these genes do not exhibit statistically significant radiation-responsiveness in this animal model. Under the experimental conditions applied, no significant age or sex related changes nor treatment-related effects of Myelo001 were observed, which may reflect model-specific limitations or a lack of efficacy in this setting, or a combination of both.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is characterized by oxidative stress (OS). This study reveals a novel epigenetic mechanism linking lysine acetyltransferase 5 (KAT5) and thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1) in PCOS pathogenesis. A meta-analysis of 50 clinical studies demonstrated elevated systemic oxidative markers (total oxidant status, nitric oxide, malondialdehyde) and reduced paraoxonase-1 levels in PCOS patients, alongside compromised total antioxidant capacity in follicular fluid. Bioinformatic analysis identified TSP-1 as a key downregulated gene in PCOS, and the hTFtarget database predicted KAT5 as an upstream regulator of TSP-1. In vitro, H₂O₂-induced oxidative stress in KGN granulosa cells suppressed TSP-1, KAT5, and H2AK5ac levels, which were restored by N-acetylcysteine (NAC). Mechanistically, KAT5 was found to regulate TSP-1 expression via H2AK5 acetylation at its promoter. Knockdown of KAT5 exacerbated oxidative stress, apoptosis, and senescence, while TSP-1 overexpression counteracted these effects. In a letrozole-induced PCOS rat model, ovarian tissues exhibited decreased H2AK5 acetylation, reduced KAT5 and TSP-1 expression, and impaired redox homeostasis. Interventions with N-acetylcysteine or TSP-1 ameliorated ovarian pathological changes, hormonal imbalances, oxidative stress, apoptosis, and cellular senescence. Collectively, these findings establish the KAT5-TSP-1 axis as a critical regulator of ovarian redox homeostasis, unveiling a novel epigenetic mechanism and proposing a dual-target therapeutic strategy for PCOS.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society for Reproductive Investigation.
Chromatin contains genetic information in eukaryotes. Multiple epigenetic mechanisms, such as chemical modifications of DNA and histone post-translational modifications (PTMs), regulate chromatin organization and architecture, influencing RNA transcription and driving diverse gene expression patterns from the same genome. This epigenetic control is highly dynamic and influenced by various events, such as DNA insults which cause altered gene expressions to drive aging, neurodegeneration, and cancer. However, this interplay remains poorly understood and identifying novel molecular effectors may shed light for therapeutic purposes. Here, we investigate the consequences of UV exposure in cells expressing a mutant form of damage-specific DNA-binding protein 2 (DDB2), a key protein for UV damage repair, in which interaction with PCNA is disrupted, thereby impairing proper DDB2 degradation. Our data reports that overexpression of mutant DDB2 resulted in persistent epigenetic alterations after UV irradiation, which led to elevated detection of H3K9 acetylation and trimethylation, as well as increments in 5-methylcytosine and altered subnuclear localization of γ-H2AX. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that DDB2-PCNA interaction regulates not only DDB2 stability, but also the epigenetic landscape of the genome.© 2026. The Author(s).
DNA mismatch repair (MMR) deficiency has been widely utilized in forward genetic screens to identify drug resistance mutations and elucidate the mechanisms of action of cytotoxic small molecules. However, MMR deficiency generates a characteristic mutational signature enriched for C>T transitions that precludes saturation of mutagenesis. We hypothesized that expression of proofreading deficient DNA polymerase epsilon, as has been observed in patients with biallelic MMR deficiency, would enhance mutagenesis and enable identification of new resistance mutations and cytotoxin mechanisms. Here, we combine auxin-inducible degradation of Msh2 with doxycycline-inducible expression of the proofreading-deficient PolεP286R mutant in murine small cell lung cancer (SCLC) cells. Simultaneous MMR deficiency and mutant Polε expression markedly increased the emergence of bortezomib-resistant clones relative to either perturbation alone and targeted sequencing of Psmb5 in bortezomib-resistant clones identified recurrent mutations previously reported in chemical mutagenesis-based resistance screens. We next applied this platform to investigate resistance to lurbinectedin, a clinically relevant therapy for SCLC. Whole-exome sequencing revealed recurrent loss-of-function alterations in nucleotide excision repair (NER) genes, most notably Ercc5 and Ercc4, implicating NER deficiency as a major mechanism of lurbinectedin resistance and supporting a central role for NER in mediating lurbinectedin-induced cytotoxicity. Collectively, these findings establish inducible ultramutagenesis as a powerful and versatile platform for the unbiased discovery of drug resistance mechanisms and therapeutic vulnerabilities.
Lysine acetyltransferase 5 (KAT5) plays a critical role in epigenetic regulation and is closely associated with the progression of various cancers, particularly hepatocellular carcinoma. However, convenient and portable methods for monitoring KAT5 activity remain limited. Herein, we report a coordination-regulated colorimetric sensing platform based on the localized surface plasmon resonance of gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) for KAT5 activity detection. In this strategy, Zn2+ coordinates with ethylenediamine (en) to form Zn(en)22+ complexes, which induce AuNPs aggregation and a distinct plasmonic color change. In the presence of coenzyme A (CoA), generated during the KAT5-catalyzed acetylation reaction, Zn2+ preferentially binds to thiol-containing CoA, suppressing Zn(en)22+ formation and inhibiting AuNPs aggregation. As a result, KAT5 activity is indirectly converted into a measurable colorimetric signal with a detection limit of 1.9 pg/mL (3σ/slope). To enable portable analysis, smartphone-based image processing was integrated, using the blue-to-red (B/R) ratio for quantification. The platform was further applied to investigate histone acetylation in cancer cells and circulating tumor cell (CTCs)-like models during epithelial-mesenchymal transition, revealing dynamic changes in KAT5 activity. This coordination-mediated AuNPs strategy provides a simple and portable tool for monitoring cancer-related enzymatic activity, with potential applications in liquid biopsy, early cancer diagnosis, and precision medicine.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Anaplastic thyroid carcinoma (ATC) is an exceptionally aggressive malignancy with dismal survival, largely due to intrinsic cisplatin resistance. This study identifies a novel mechanism by which small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) promote chemoresistance by enhancing DNA repair via protein lactylation. ATC cells secrete sEVs enriched with Annexin A2 (ANXA2). Upon delivery to recipient ATC cells, ANXA2 stabilizes the interaction between SRC kinase and lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA), leading to increased LDHA phosphorylation (Y10), enzyme activity, and lactate production. The resulting lactate surge serves as a substrate for lysine lactylation. Ku80 (XRCC5) is identified as a key lactylation target at K265, catalyzed by the acyltransferase KAT5. This lactylation modification strengthens the interaction between Ku80 and its partner Ku70 (XRCC6), stabilizing the initial DNA-end binding complex in the non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) repair pathway. Consequently, NHEJ efficiency is significantly enhanced, enabling ATC cells to rapidly repair cisplatin-induced DNA double-strand breaks and survive treatment. Genetic disruption of the XRCC5-K265 lactylation site or pharmacological inhibition of LDHA sensitizes ATC xenograft tumors to cisplatin, while in vitro, inhibition of the SRC/LDHA axis produces a similar chemosensitizing effect. This work unveils the ANXA2+ sEV/SRC/LDHA/lactate/XRCC5-lactylation axis as a critical driver of NHEJ-mediated chemoresistance in ATC, offering new potential therapeutic targets.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) remains a lethal progressive disease with poorly defined molecular drivers. Epithelial dysfunction and metabolic reprogramming contribute to PF, but the mechanistic link between these processes remains unclear. Here, we identify a Kat5-STAT6 epigenetic-metabolic axis that governs fibrotic progression. Kat5 directly acetylates STAT6 at lysine 636 (K636), thereby suppressing STAT6 dimerization, phosphorylation and nuclear translocation. In fibrotic lungs, STAT6 acetylation at K636 is reduced, leading to its hyperactivation. Activated STAT6 drives transcription of pro-glycolytic enzyme hexokinase 2 (HK2), promoting metabolic reprogramming in alveolar type II (ATII) cells and extracellular matrix deposition. ATII cell-specific restoration of Kat5 rescues STAT6 acetylation, normalizes its activity and ameliorates fibrosis in vivo. Mechanistically, Kat5-mediated STAT6 acetylation functions as a biochemical brake that limits cooperation with profibrotic mediators such as tissue plasminogen activator (tPA). These findings redefine STAT6 regulation, highlight an acetylation-phosphorylation checkpoint controlling fibrogenesis, and suggest that Kat5 enhancers or STAT6 acetylation mimetics may represent potential therapeutic strategies for chronic lung disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Alzheimer's disease (AD) can be caused by autosomal-dominant familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) mutations in amyloid precursor protein (APP) or presenilin-1 and 2, which form an enzyme substrate complex. KAT5 binds to the APP intracellular domain. Recent reports of decreased  γ-secretase activity in FAD mutants support KAT5 membrane sequestration.We compare the hippocampal transcriptome profiles of the Kat5 brain-specific knockout (KO) mouse to multiple AD datasets through alignment with the TREAT-AD AD biological domains. We examine KAT5 subcellular localization in human wild-type and AD neurons.The Kat5 KO mouse demonstrates downregulation of synaptic genes, metabolic pathways, and upregulation of DNA replication and repair, cell cycle, and immune response genes. We see similar profiles in Kat5 and comparative AD datasets. KAT5 is restricted to the cytosol in human AD neurons.This analysis supports the hypothesis that KAT5 nuclear signaling downstream of APP cleavage plays a pivotal role in neuronal homeostasis.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Chronic fatty acid (FA) elevation drives metabolic dysfunction-associated liver disease (MASLD). Hepatocytes buffer transient lipid overload via coordinated adaptive mechanisms, but the temporal limits of this capacity remain undefined.We characterized early, intermediate, and prolonged hepatocellular responses to sustained lipid excess.HuH7 hepatocytes were exposed to an equimolar palmitic/oleic acid (PA/OA) mixture for 1, 14, or 28 days. Viability, lipid accumulation, stress-response pathways, insulin signaling, metabolic regulators, mitochondrial markers, [14C]-PA uptake, and exo-metabolomic profiles were assessed (n≥3/group). Data (mean ± SEM) were analyzed by two-way ANOVA with Bonferroni post hoc testing; cumulative cell death by linear regression. P<0.05 was significant.FA treatment increased lipid droplet accumulation 1.4- to 1.7-fold vs. time-matched BSA controls at all time points (p<0.001) and increased the rate of cumulative cell death ∼4.3-fold (1.556±0.083 vs. 0.365±0.054%/day, p<0.001). Exo-metabolomic PCA explained 88.5% of variance (Q2=0.758), with peak lactate release at Day 14 and progressively rising acetate through Day 28. [14C]-PA accumulation at Day 28 was ∼30% lower than Day 1 (∼800 vs. ∼500 cpm/mg protein), with a declining rather than plateauing profile between 20-60 s. By Day 28, FA-treated cells showed lower FASN (p<0.001), CD36 (p<0.05), FABP1 (p<0.001), SIRT1 (p<0.005), and CLOCK (p<0.01) protein levels, and higher CPT1A (p<0.001), pAMPK/AMPK (p<0.01), p53 (p<0.001), Bax/Bcl2 (p<0.005), and respiratory complex I-V abundance (p<0.05-p<0.001) vs. controls.Sustained PA/OA exposure induces a staged hepatocellular response, early lipid-buffering adaptation, intermediate metabolic compensation, and late decompensation, indicating that chronic lipotoxicity reflects progressive loss of regulatory coordination despite persistent metabolic adaptation.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566092 is a review article
Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a chronic inflammatory bowel disorder with limited therapeutic options, particularly those capable of selectively reinforcing intestinal epithelial barrier integrity while preserving immune homeostasis. Here, Rhoifolin (3, 10 mg/kg) dose-dependently alleviates DSS and TNBS-induced colitis in mice. Mechanistically, Rhoifolin selectively potentiates ILC3s effector function without affecting their proliferation, apoptosis, intestinal homing, developmental differentiation, or the distribution of CCR6+, NKp46+, and double-negative ILC3s subsets. This functional enhancement promotes IL-22 production, thereby reinforcing epithelial barrier integrity in colonic epithelial cells and organoids. Integrated transcriptomics and untargeted metabolomics identified nicotinamide salvage as a central metabolic program driving ILC3s functional enhancement. NMNAT1 was identified as a direct molecular target of Rhoifolin. Molecular docking and dynamic simulations pinpointed Leu155 as a critical residue mediating Rhoifolin-NMNAT1 interaction, and mutation of Leu155 antagonized metabolic activation and IL-22 induction. Consistently, Rhoifolin-induced NAD+ elevation enhanced SIRT1 activity, leading to FOXO1 deacetylation and nuclear translocation. Further CUT&Tag-qPCR demonstrated FOXO1 enrichment at Il22 promoter, driving IL-22 transcription in ILC3s. Collectively, our findings identify Rhoifolin as a potent ILC3s effector function enhancer and uncover a previously unrecognized NMNAT1-NAD+-SIRT1-FOXO1 axis linking immunometabolic and epigenetic regulation to intestinal barrier protection, highlighting ILC3s empowerment as a promising therapeutic strategy for UC.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
We investigated the role of SIRT1 in linear growth and bone structure, focusing on the response of the epiphyseal growth plate (EGP) to nutritional manipulation.A ColX-Cre driver was used to target hypertrophic chondrocytes (HZ), and generate hypertrophic specific Sirt1 knockout (CKO) mice.We found that Sirt1 deletion in hypertrophic chondrocytes markedly impaired growth in males, with a 33% reduction in body weight and 10-11% shorter long bones and EGP height (P<0.05). In females, effects were milder (12% reduction in weight, 5-7% shorter long bones; P<0.05 in both) but EGP height was reduced similarly to the males. These mice were next tested in a catch-up (CU) growth model involving food restriction followed by refeeding. Under CU conditions, male CKO mice showed an unexpected exaggerated response, surpassing the weight and bone length of normally fed CKO.We therefore conclude that targeted Sirt1 deletion in the hypertrophic zone revealed a strong sex-dependent effect on skeletal growth and bone quality. Both male and female CKO mice exhibited growth impairment under normal conditions compared to littermate control (CTL), however while male showed hyper-responsiveness to refeeding, females CKO showed only moderate alterations. This targeted approach uncovers sex-dependent role for SIRT1 in regulating growth and bone quality, moving beyond its generally understood functions in cartilage and bone development. The distinct responses to both basal conditions and nutritional stress between sexes represent a significant new finding, extending its known role beyond general cartilage and bone development.Copyright © 2026 Shtaif, Menahem, Hornfeld, Gabet, Phillip and Gat-Yablonski.
Prolonged physical fatigue impairs physiological homeostasis and quality of life, necessitating effective interventions. This study aimed to investigate the anti-fatigue effects and underlying mechanisms of a novel L-β-galactoglucan (APG) with two distinct molecular weights in mice under two different swimming load models using multiomics approaches. The results showed that APG could significantly extend exhaustive swimming time, reduce elevated serum lactate and blood urea nitrogen levels, increase muscle glycogen storage, and mitigate swimming-induced skeletal muscle and mitochondrial damage. Compared with its medium-molecular-weight counterpart, high-molecular-weight APG was more effective at improving these indicators. APG optimized the gut microbiota and increased the content of short-chain fatty acids. Specifically, it increased the ratio of Bacteroidetes/Bacillota and promoted the abundance of beneficial bacteria, including Dubosiella, Lachnospiraceae_UCG-006, Parabacteroides, Roseburia, Faecalibaculum and norank_o_Clostridia_vadinBB60_group, while increasing the concentrations of acetic, propanoic, and isobutyric acids. Notably, APG exerted load-specific regulatory effects: In the weight-bearing model, APG modulated mainly purine metabolism, whereas in the non-weight-bearing model, it predominantly regulated tryptophan metabolism. Both pathways converge to synergistically activate AMPK/SIRT1/PGC-1α signaling. Molecular docking further verified that APG exhibited strong binding affinity to key targets in these pathways. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that APG exerts anti-fatigue effects in a molecular weight-dependent and load-specific manner via the gut-muscle axis, providing a scientific basis for the development of APG as a targeted anti-fatigue functional ingredient.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Guazuma ulmifolia is traditionally used for liver disorders, but its protective mechanisms against heavy metal toxicity are poorly defined. This study evaluated the phytochemical profile and hepatoprotective mechanisms of G. ulmifolia butanol extract (Gul-BuOH) against cadmium-induced liver injury.Gul-BuOH was chemically profiled by UPLC-PDA-ESI-qTOF-MS/MS. Cadmium hepatotoxicity was induced in rats, followed by Gul-BuOH treatment (100 and 200 mg/kg). Liver injury, oxidative stress, inflammation, gene expression (Let-7a, HOTAIR), histopathology, HO-1/Sirt-1 immunoreactivity, and serum metabolomic changes were assessed. Chemical profiling led to the annotation of 42 compounds, including mainly flavonoids and phenolic acids, highlighting the rich phytochemical composition of G. ulmifolia. CdCl2 exposure increased hepatic Cd accumulation and elevated ALT, AST, and ALP, reduced TAC, and increased NO and MDA. Gul-BuOH significantly reduced hepatic Cd levels by 2.6- and 3.2-fold, restored TAC by 38.3% and 83.2%, and decreased NO (56.3% and 63.4%) and MDA (45.4% and 54.6%) at 100 and 200 mg/kg, respectively. Inflammatory markers NF-κB-p and TNF-α were markedly suppressed, while miRNA Let-7a was upregulated and lncRNA HOTAIR was downregulated. Histological and immunohistochemical analyses revealed near-complete restoration of hepatic architecture and normalization of HO-1 and Sirt-1 expression at the high dose. Serum metabolomics' OPLS-DA model performance indicators demonstrated strong reliability, with an R2Y (explained variance) of 0.991 and a Q2 (predictive variance) of 0.988). The model identified 36 significantly altered metabolites that were largely normalized by Gul-BuOH, implicating linoleic acid metabolism, amino acid biosynthesis, and ascorbate-related pathways.Gul-BuOH affords dose-dependent protection against Cd-induced liver injury by modulating oxidative stress, inflammation, metal detoxification, and metabolic pathways, supporting the traditional use of G. ulmifolia and its potential as a multi-target hepatoprotective agent.Copyright: © 2026 Elsabagh et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
This exploratory study aimed to identify the effects of SIRT1 polymorphisms on the serum lipidomic profile and pathological characteristics in metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD).Chinese Han patients with biopsy-proven MASLD were genotyped for the single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in SIRT1. Lipidomics based on untargeted ultra-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UHPLC-MS) was applied to map the SIRT1-driven serum lipid signature, followed by correlation analyses linking these lipid traits to hepatic steatosis, ballooning, lobular inflammation, and fibrosis. Integrative pathological scoring finally explored how SIRT1 variants that remodel circulating lipids may be associated with MASLD-specific histological change.SIRT1 SNPs (rs3740053, rs2394443, rs2236318, rs7896005, rs2273773, rs2394445, and rs2394446) demonstrated extensive association with serum lipidomics of MASLD patients. SIRT1 rs2236318, rs7896005, and rs2394445, affecting 2, 7, and 7 serum triacylglycerols (TAGs) respectively, dominated the SIRT1 SNP-lipidomics association. Quantitative analysis revealed significantly elevated TAGs levels (48:0, 50:0, 50:1, 52:0, 52:1, 52:2, and 54:1), the most abundant species, in MASLD patients with rs2394445 A/A genotype compared with A/T+T/T. These elevated rs2394445-dependent TAG levels were associated with high-grade hepatic steatosis (rho: 0.367 to 0.540, p < 0.033-0.001) rather than ballooning, lobular inflammation, or fibrosis. The significant correlation of rs2394445 A/A genotype with severe steatosis suggested a potential pathological link through TAG profile modulation. In contrast, rs2394445 showed a limited effect on total circulating lipids and obesity indices (BMI, WHtR).The A/A genotype at SIRT1 rs2394445 is associated with elevated serum TAGs containing saturated or monounsaturated fatty acids, which are linked to high-grade hepatic steatosis in MASLD independently of obesity.Copyright © 2026 Pan, Guo, Cao, Zheng, Mi, Zhang, Shen and Xu.
Adequate sleep is essential for biological rhythmicity and metabolic homeostasis, but chronic sleep restriction (CSR), a common modern challenge, disrupts hypothalamic function and contributes to circadian dysregulation, oxidative stress, and metabolic disturbances. This study investigated the effects of AdipoRon (AR), an adiponectin receptor agonist, on CSR-associated changes in hypothalamic clock-gene expression, oxidative stress markers, and components of the SIRT1/NRF2/HO-1 signaling axis. Male mice were assigned to control, CSR, CSR + Melatonin (Mel), and CSR + AR groups. Animals underwent 21 days of sleep restriction (18 h/day) using the multiple-platform approach and received intranasal AR (10 µg) or Mel (40 µg) daily for 21 days. Circadian clock genes (Clock, Bmal1, Per1, and Cry1), oxidative stress markers (malondialdehyde, superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, and total antioxidant capacity), and components of the SIRT1/NRF2/HO-1 pathway were assessed in the hypothalamus. Serum lipid profile and liver enzymes were also measured. The results showed that CSR induced marked alterations in hypothalamic clock-related gene expression, accompanied by increased oxidative stress and reduced expression of SIRT1/NRF2/HO-1 pathway-related proteins. In addition, CSR reduced body weight gain and triglyceride levels while increasing low-density lipoprotein (LDL), aspartate transaminase (AST), and alanine aminotransferase (ALT). In contrast, AR treatment partially reversed CSR-associated alterations in clock-related gene expression, attenuated oxidative stress, reduced LDL and ALT levels, and increased the expression of SIRT1/NRF2/HO-1 pathway-related proteins. These findings suggest that AR may mitigate CSR-associated molecular and metabolic alterations and warrant further investigation into its underlying mechanisms.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556483 is a review article
Oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction are key features of sarcopenia-related skeletal muscle metabolic dysfunction. This study aimed to identify MFG-E8-derived bioactive peptides with antioxidant and metabolic regulatory potential. Integrated bioinformatics analysis highlighted oxidative phosphorylation, thermogenesis, ROS-related pathways and lipid metabolic regulation as major molecular features of sarcopenia-related metabolic dysfunction. After simulated gastrointestinal digestion of bovine milk fat globule epidermal growth factor 8 (MFG-E8), 98 peptides were identified by LC-MS/MS. Candidate peptides were prioritized using peptidomics, ADMET prediction, molecular docking, Caco-2 monolayer-based transepithelial transport assessment and L6 cell-based validation. Among the selected peptides, YAR showed a favorable multi-target docking profile with Akt, PPARα and SIRT1, together with putative transepithelial transport potential in a Caco-2 monolayer model. and its detection in basolateral fractions after Caco-2 monolayer transport. In dexamethasone-injured L6 myoblasts, YAR displayed the strongest cytoprotective activity, reducing intracellular ROS by up to 52.6%, stabilizing mitochondrial membrane potential, and increasing total Akt and p-Akt fluorescence intensities by 30% and 32%, respectively. YAR also partially restored PI3K/Akt signaling and modulated downstream metabolic effectors, including GLUT4 and PPARα. These findings identify YAR as a promising MFG-E8-derived antioxidant peptide with potential transepithelial transport and cytoprotective activity, providing a mechanistic basis for developing food-derived peptides targeting oxidative stress-related skeletal muscle metabolic dysfunction.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Following the publication of the above paper, it was drawn to the Editor's attention by a concerned reader that certain of the flow cytometric plots featured in Fig. 4 on p. 3748 were strikingly similar to plots that had appeared in a pair of articles written by different authors at different research institutes that had already been submitted for publication/published in the journal Medical Science Monitor, and a further paper with which the above paper shared flow cytometric data was identified as having been submitted to the journal Oncology Letters. Owing to the fact that the contentious data in the above article had already been published prior to its submission to Molecular Medicine Reports, the Editor has decided that this paper should be retracted from the Journal. The authors were asked for an explanation to account for these concerns, but the Editorial Office did not receive a reply. The Editor apologizes to the readership for any inconvenience caused. [Molecular Medicine Reports 18: 3744‑3750, 2018; DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2018.9358].
DNA damage occasionally leads to mutations even in DNA repair-proficient cells via translesion synthesis (TLS), an efficient but error-prone DNA damage tolerance pathway. In the human genome, there are three closely related Y-family TLS polymerases (η, κ, and ι). Polymerase η is specialized for the error-free replication of UV adducts, while polymerase κ is known to replicate over various heterocyclic DNA adducts. The function of polymerase ι is less clear and this gene is missing from several vertebrate clades, yeast, most birds, and plants. Using wild-type and TLS polymerase (POLH, POLK, POLI) knockout human TK6 and RPE-1 cell lines and whole genome sequencing, we associate these polymerases to mutagenesis induced by the common chemotherapy agent cisplatin and the smoke-mimicking compound 4-nitroquinoline-1-oxide (4-NQO). We found that polymerase ι specifically introduces C>T mutations at both cisplatin and 4-NQO lesions, confirmed in two further cell lines. Using non-negative matrix factorization, we derived a polymerase ι-specific base substitution signature, which corresponds to COSMIC cancer mutational signature SBS31 with a cosine similarity of 0.97. By analyzing the mutational spectra in more than 3500 human metastatic tumors, we showed that SBS31 in platinum-treated samples and SBS92 in smoking-related cancers is associated with polymerase ι expression. Our study suggests an in vivo mutagenic function for polymerase ι and highlights its role in tissue-dependent chemotherapy-induced mutagenesis that may contribute to tumor heterogeneity.
The functional plasticity of tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) is a critical determinant of the immunosuppressive microenvironment in cervical cancer, yet its integration into actionable prognostic frameworks remains limited. This study aimed to establish a TAM polarization-centered model and elucidate the mechanisms of underlying tumor-immune crosstalk.Bulk transcriptomics from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) were integrated with single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data (GSE208653). By combining weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) with a multi-algorithm machine learning framework, a prognostic signature was constructed and independently validated in the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) GSE52903 cohort. Single-cell analysis resolved the cellular origins of signature genes, prioritizing tumor-enriched genes for validation. Protein-level expression was verified via immunohistochemistry (IHC) in a paired clinical cohort (n=39). Functional validation of the core gene was performed in vitro using cervical cancer cell lines co-cultured with THP-1-derived macrophages. Polarization was assessed via reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), Western blot (WB), enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), flow cytometry, and multiplex immunofluorescence (mIF).A robust five-gene prognostic signature (TP73, TFRC, SHC1, SCD, and PFKFB3) was developed, effectively stratifying patient survival. High risk scores correlated with a suppressed antitumor immune landscape and diminished predicted chemosensitivity to agents such as cisplatin. Single-cell analysis and IHC confirmed transferrin receptor (TFRC) as a tumor-intrinsic factor that is progressively upregulated during cervical carcinogenesis and enhances pro-M2 signaling. In vitro co-culture assays demonstrated that tumor-derived TFRC actively orchestrates an immunosuppressive M2-like macrophage niche, driving phenotypic shifts and pro-tumorigenic cytokine secretion, characterized by elevated interleukin-10 (IL-10) and reduced TNF-α. RT-qPCR analysis of 40 clinical specimens further confirmed a significant positive correlation between TFRC and the M2 marker Arg-1 at the mRNA level (r = 0.4961, P = 0.0011).This study establishes a cross-scale, biologically interpretable prognostic model linking macrophage plasticity to clinical outcomes. We identify TFRC as a pivotal metabolic-immune node through which tumor-intrinsic iron metabolism orchestrates an immunosuppressive niche, providing a foundation for novel therapeutic strategies in cervical cancer.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Wang, Li, Huang, Zhu, Huang, Zheng, Pan and Huang.
Gastric precancerous lesions (GPLs) are a pivotal stage in the gastritis-gastric cancer sequence, and the absence of effective treatments presents a clinical challenge. Veratramine is a natural anti-inflammatory and analgesic steroid alkaloid; however, its effects on GPLs and the mechanisms have remained unexplored. This study investigated the effects of veratramine on GPLs using 1-Methyl-3-nitro-1-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG)-induced GES-1 cells and rat models, utilizing RNA-seq to elucidate the underlying mechanisms. In vitro, veratramine inhibited malignant cells (MC) proliferation, induced apoptosis, and triggered G0/G1 cell cycle arrest. It also suppressed epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), migration, and invasion by upregulating E‑cadherin and downregulating Slug and vimentin. Transcriptomic and molecular docking analyses highlighted the Wnt/β-catenin pathway as a key target, regulated via DDX60, MUC1, APOL1, and MSH5. Veratramine reduced Wnt10B, β-catenin, and cyclin D1 expression and blocked β‑catenin nuclear translocation; these effects were reversed by the Wnt activator BML-284. In vivo, treatment with veratramine ameliorated the GPLs-induced pathological changes in rats. It restored body weight and preserved gastric mucosal integrity, as evidenced by intact glandular and cellular morphology, reduced hyperplasia, and attenuated intestinal metaplasia. These improvements were associated with a modulation of key molecular markers, specifically a decrease in the expression of N-cadherin, Wnt10B, and β-catenin, alongside an increase in E-cadherin expression in gastric tissues. These results collectively indicate that veratramine exerts its therapeutic effects against GPLs primarily by suppressing the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. Taken together, our findings suggest that veratramine is a promising candidate small-molecule drug for the treatment of GPLs.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Multiple myeloma (MM) is a heterogeneous hematological malignancy characterized by the clonal proliferation of plasma cells in the bone marrow, with distinct subtypes including smoldering MM (SMM), newly diagnosed MM (NDMM), and relapsed/refractory MM (RRMM). Despite therapeutic advances, outcomes remain unsatisfactory, especially for RRMM, due to unclear heterogeneity, progression mechanisms, and crosstalk between tumor cells and the bone marrow microenvironment (BMME) via direct interactions or extracellular vesicles (EVs).Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was performed on bone marrow samples from 12 MM patients, and major cell types were identified. Plasma cells were subjected to re-clustering to explore subpopulation heterogeneity. Functional enrichment analysis of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) was conducted. Cellular stemness was evaluated by CytoTRACE, and developmental trajectories were inferred via Monocle and Slingshot. Cell-cell communication was analyzed by CellChat, while transcription factor (TF) regulatory networks were identified through SCENIC analysis. Metabolic pathway activity was also assessed. Finally, loss-of-function experiments (siRNA-mediated ASS1 knockdown) were conducted to validate its functional role.The analysis identified 7 major cell types. Plasma cells were further stratified into 6 subpopulations (C0-PCSK1N+, C1-IGHGP+, C2-IGHA1+, C3-ASS1+, C4-CD27+, C5-STMN1+). C3 and C5 were enriched in RRMM, while C1 and C4 were dominant in SMM. C3 exhibited hyperactive EV signature and higher stemness-like scores. Pseudotime trajectory analysis identified C3 as poorly differentiated malignant progenitors driving disease progression. C3 showed strong crosstalk with monocytes/macrophages/conventional dendritic cells (cDCs) via MIF and ICAM signaling. Key TFs regulating C3 included ATF5, TP73, MYB, CEBPB, and NFIA. Metabolic pathway analysis indicated enhanced vitamin B6 metabolism, phenylalanine metabolism, and oxidative phosphorylation in C3 and RRMM. ASS1 silencing inhibited proliferation, clonogenic capacity and migration, while promoting apoptosis in MM cells.Our study delineates MM heterogeneity, developmental dynamics, and regulatory networks at the single-cell level. ASS1+ plasma cells represent a highly malignant subpopulation associated with RRMM, driving disease progression through unique TF regulatory networks, metabolic reprogramming, and crosstalk with the BMME. These findings provide novel insights into MM pathogenesis and identify ASS1 as a potential therapeutic target for MM patients, particularly those with RRMM.Copyright © 2026 Fan, Zhao, Cong, Zhang, Rouzi, Xie, Dai and Bao.
Sexual processes in microbial eukaryotes are often cryptic, obscuring the diversity and evolutionary history of sex across major eukaryotic lineages. Within Amoebozoa, trophic-cell fusion has been associated with sexual development in distantly related taxa, but evidence from Tubulinea, one of the three major amoebozoan lineages, has been lacking, leaving a major gap in the known distribution of fusion-associated sexual development. Here, we combine long-term behavioral observations with transcriptomic analyses to uncover an extensive fusion-associated developmental program in the testate amoeba Arcella vulgaris . Individual trophic cells progressively fused with neighboring amoebae to form large multinucleate aggregates exhibiting coordinated movement and cytoplasmic streaming. Transcriptomic analyses identified a distinct meiosis-enriched state characterized by elevated expression of conserved meiotic genes, including DMC1, HOP1, HOP2, MER3, MSH5, REC8, ZIP4, and PCH2, together with genes involved in homologous recombination and chromosome maintenance. Morphologically similar fused aggregates occurred in both meiosis-enriched and meiosis-reduced transcriptomic states, revealing substantial molecular differentiation within the fusion process and suggesting a dynamic developmental continuum. The coordinated activation of conserved meiotic pathways strongly supports a role for trophic-cell fusion in sexual development. By extending fusion-associated sexual development to Tubulinea, our findings fill a major phylogenetic gap and establish the occurrence of this developmental phenomenon across all three major amoebozoan lineages. This broad phylogenetic distribution raises the possibility that fusion-mediated sexual development is an ancient and widespread feature of Amoebozoa and provides new insight into the evolution and diversity of sexual programs in microbial eukaryotes.
Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1) is a multisystemic autosomal dominant disorder caused by the expansion of an unstable CTG•CAG repeat in the DMPK gene. This study examined whether differential expression of DNA repair genes in three different tissues from the same DM1 patient contributed to tissue-specific somatic instability of the repeat tract. RNA-Seq was used to quantify expression levels of eight DNA repair genes (MSH2, MSH3, MSH6, MLH1, MLH3, PMS2, LIG1, and FAN1). Results indicate that the expression levels varied significantly across tissues, with no inter-tissue correlations, suggesting independent regulation and patient-specific differences. Somatic expansion of the repeat tract in blood and muscle was effectively predicted by a complex ePALxAge interaction, while in muscle it was further influenced by MSH3 and PMS2 gene expression, confirming their role as tissue-specific genetic modifiers in DM1. Although only marginally significant, muscle expression of PMS2 and FAN1 appeared to affect age-at-onset: higher FAN1 expression was associated with reduced somatic expansion and later onset. Our findings also suggest a complex competitive balance between promoters and stabilizers of repeat instability, shaping muscle expansion dynamics and potentially modifying clinical onset. Overall, these results indicate that certain DNA repair genes exert stronger, tissue-dependent effects on somatic instability. We confirm that MSH3, PMS2, and FAN1 act as key modifiers not only of somatic expansion, especially in skeletal muscle, but also of DM1 severity. Although RT-qPCR data might be required to validate some of these results, these genes therefore represent promising therapeutic targets for modulating disease progression.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a highly lethal malignancy with limited therapeutic options. In this study, we introduce a target-based deep learning framework to investigate the anticancer activity of eravacycline (Erav), a United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved antibacterial agent previously identified in our work as a potential anticancer candidate through computational screening. We developed a novel two-phase in silico yeast-based prediction model to explore potential mechanisms of action, followed by in vitro and in vivo experimental validation. DNA polymerase kappa (POLK) and mutant p53 emerged as the top-ranked candidate targets. In the studied mutant p53 PDAC model, Erav treatment significantly reduced mutant p53 protein levels and was associated with marked downregulation of POLK protein expression. POLK is a previously underexplored DNA polymerase that has been reported to be overexpressed in multiple cancer types. In a subcutaneous xenograft model, Erav treatment resulted in a 76% reduction in tumor volume. Our findings demonstrate an association between Erav treatment and reduced POLK protein expression in the studied mutant p53 PDAC model, supporting POLK as a prioritized candidate for further investigation and providing preliminary mechanistic insight into Erav activity. This integrative computational-experimental pipeline offers a robust strategy for accelerating drug repurposing in oncology.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Gliomas are aggressive brain tumors with a dismal prognosis, and their development, progression, and responsiveness to treatment are all impacted by mismatch repair (MMR) deficiency. This work aimed to construct a predictive risk model based on MMR-related genes and confirm its clinical applicability, with a focus on identifying novel therapeutic targets.Clinical and mRNA expression data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and The Chinese Glioma Genome Atlas (CGGA) glioma patients were analyzed. MMR-related genes were sourced from the Molecular Signatures Database (MSigDB). A risk score model was created using multivariate Cox regression and LASSO analysis. Patients were categorized into high- and low-risk groups based on the median risk score. The model's performance was assessed using ROC curves, AUC, and Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. Immune cell infiltration was quantified using "CIBERSORT" and "QUANTISEQ". Immunotherapy potential was evaluated via TMB, TME, and TIDE scores. The half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) analyses were performed. In vitro validation involved MCM8 overexpression/knockdown in U251/LN229 glioma cells, followed by TMZ sensitivity testing via CCK-8 assays.An eight-MMR-related gene prognostic model (HMGB1, MCM8, MUTYH, PMS1, RNASEH2B, RNASEH2C, RPA3, TP73) was constructed. The risk score was an independent prognostic factor, with high-risk patients showing significantly poorer overall survival. The validity of this model has been validated in the CGGA dataset. Significant differences in immune infiltration, TME, and TMB scores were observed between risk groups. Drug sensitivity analysis revealed distinct IC50 profiles for chemotherapeutic agents between the groups. Most importantly, in vitro experiments demonstrated that MCM8 overexpression increased glioma cell sensitivity to TMZ, while MCM8 knockdown decreased it, identifying MCM8 as a potential target for TMZ-based personalized therapy.This study establishes a robust MMR-related prognostic model for glioma that effectively stratifies patients, predicts survival, and reflects distinct immune microenvironments. Critically, we identify MCM8 as a novel and actionable biomarker that modulates TMZ sensitivity, offering a promising avenue for personalized treatment in glioma patients.Copyright © 2026 Feng, Si, Han, Huang and Jiang.
Huntington's disease is driven by CAG repeat expansion in the mutant huntingtin gene. Nuclease FAN1 and mismatch repair protein MLH1 regulate repeat expansion through direct interaction, but the underlying structural basis remains unclear. Here, we show that the MLH1 C-terminal domain binds to FAN1-derived peptides containing either the MIP or MIM motif with comparable affinities. Crystal structures of this domain bound to each motif provide structural insights into human MLH1-FAN1 interaction, revealing a conserved mechanism for FAN1-MIP recognition and a previously unrecognized binding site on MLH1, termed the S3 site, for FAN1-MIM engagement. Co-immunoprecipitation assays confirmed that mutation of key MLH1 residues disrupts FAN1 binding in cells. These findings establish the molecular basis of MLH1-FAN1 recognition and provide a structural framework for understanding the regulation of CAG repeat expansion in Huntington's disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
To prepare a compound irrigation formulation for sodium contamination and evaluate its effects on wound pH regulation and early repair outcomes in a rat model of sodium-induced skin injury.A compound irrigation formulation for sodium contamination was prepared using glycine and ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid disodium salt as the principal formulation components. Sixty Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly assigned to five groups: no-irrigation group (NI), water irrigation group (WI), boric acid irrigation group (BA), Diphoterine irrigation group (DP), and decontamination solution group (DS), with 12 rats in each group. At 3 min after sodium contamination, wounds were treated with the corresponding interventions and irrigated for 15 min. Wound pH was monitored during irrigation, and wound healing was evaluated on day 14. Histopathological changes were assessed by hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining and semi-quantitative injury scoring, and collagen deposition was evaluated by Masson staining. The expression of PCNA, VEGF, α-SMA, and CD31 was detected by immunohistochemistry, and the levels of IL-1β, IL-6, IL-10, and TNF-α were measured by ELISA.The DS group showed a rapid reduction in wound alkalinity, and wound pH shifted toward a near-neutral range after 15 min of irrigation. Compared with the NI, WI, and BA groups, the DS group had a significantly higher wound healing rate on day 14 (P < 0.05). Histological analysis and semi-quantitative injury scoring showed better tissue preservation, reduced inflammatory cell infiltration, a lower histopathological injury score, and increased collagen deposition in the DS group. PCNA expression did not differ significantly among groups, whereas the expression levels of the angiogenesis- and repair-associated markers VEGF, α-SMA, and CD31 were increased in the DS group compared with the NI and WI groups (P < 0.05). In addition, IL-1β and TNF-α levels were decreased in the DS group compared with the NI and WI groups (P < 0.05), IL-6 was decreased compared with the NI group (P < 0.05), and IL-10 was increased compared with all other groups (P < 0.05).The compound irrigation formulation rapidly reduced wound alkalinity and was associated with improved early repair outcomes, including increased collagen deposition, enhanced angiogenesis-related marker expression, and a more favorable local inflammatory profile in sodium-induced skin wounds in rats. These findings suggest its potential as an emergency irrigation formulation for sodium contamination, although direct sodium removal and the independent contribution of each component require further investigation.Copyright © 2026 Jiang, Zhang and Gu.
Cisplatin (Cis), an index drug with the greatest gonadotoxic potential, affects both primordial follicles and developing follicles (pre-antral) in vivo. Mesenchymal stem cell-derived exosomes accelerate cell proliferation and wound healing. Exosomes have been shown to induce tissue regeneration by transferring growth factors, growth factor receptors, enzymes, cytokines, DNA, miRNA, mRNA, ncRNA, proteins, and lipids from cell to cell. In this study, in order to investigate the protective effects of exosomes obtained from umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal stem cells against premature ovarian failure caused by Cis, in addition to histopathological methods, it was aimed to investigate the expressions of apoptosis, inflammation, and cell proliferation immunohistochemically at the protein level. For this purpose, 50 Wistar albino adult female rats were divided into five equal groups: control group, exosome (Exo) group, Cis group, Exo + Cis group, and Cis + Exo group. At the end of the study, ovarian tissues were removed. TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6 enzyme levels were measured. AMH, HIF1-α, NF-κß, IL-1β, PCNA, and VEGF proteins were evaluated by the immunohistochemistry staining method. When histomorphometric evaluations and AMH immunoreactivity results were examined, it was seen that Cis caused a decrease in the number of preantral follicles, and Exo tolerated this decrease in the Exo + Cis group. It was determined that the increase in NF-κß immunoreactivity increased Cis' NF-κß uptake, and Exo had an anti-apoptotic effect. As a result, it was determined that Cis had a degenerative effect on ovarian morphology and follicle number and structure, and Exo applied before Cis had a prophylactic effect.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557142 is a review article
Diabetes mellitus (DM) is characterized by chronic metabolic stress that promotes oxidative damage, genomic instability, and premature cellular aging, with adipose tissue senescence being a pivotal contributor to metabolic dysfunction. Yet the impact on DNA damage repair (DDR) and telomere maintenance in adipose tissue remains poorly defined. This study investigated DDR capacity, telomere integrity, and the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) in adipose tissue and adipose-derived stromal cells (ADSCs) under diabetic conditions. Using an obese diabetic (ob/ob) mouse model, we confirmed whole-blood telomere shortening, significant adipose tissue hypertrophy, metabolic dysregulation, and elevated DNA damage, evidenced by increased γH2AX-positive staining. In vitro, ADSCs exposed to a diabetic microenvironment (AGEs and TNFα) exhibited increased reactive oxygen species and DNA damage without a corresponding activation of DDR pathways, as indicated by unchanged PARP1 levels and broad downregulation of key DNA repair genes, including sensors (ATM, ABL1, RAD17) and effectors across MMR, NER, HR, and NHEJ pathways. This impaired genomic surveillance was accompanied by premature cellular senescence and significant repression of genes involved in telomere protection (shelterin complex), telomerase activity, and telomere maintenance, together with marked telomere shortening following prolonged exposure. Furthermore, diabetic conditions increased the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines, chemokines, and growth factors. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that the diabetic microenvironment is associated with maladaptive DDR responses, telomere dysfunction, cellular senescence, and a pro-inflammatory secretory phenotype. This study highlights compromised genomic maintenance as a potential key mechanism underpinning adipose tissue dysfunction in DM and emphasizes the need for future investigations into the mechanisms underlying dysregulated DDR and telomere biology.© the author(s).
Aberrant activation of DNA damage repair (DDR) pathways drives therapeutic resistance in cancer. Although Chromatin Assembly Factor 1 subunit A (CHAF1A) is well characterized for its role in chromatin assembly, its specific function in the DNA damage response has remained poorly defined. Here, we demonstrate that CHAF1A functions as a key regulator of DNA repair and radioresistance. Upon DNA double-strand breaks, CHAF1A is rapidly recruited to damage sites in an ATM-associated manner. Intriguingly, CHAF1A recruitment further enhances ATM phosphorylation and amplifies the DNA damage signal. Consequently, depletion of CHAF1A compromises the efficiency of both homologous recombination (HR) and non-homologous end joining (NHEJ). Mechanistically, CHAF1A governs repair pathway utilization in a cell cycle-dependent manner: during S phase, CHAF1A interacts with RAD51 in collaboration with PCNA, promoting the loading of RAD51 at DNA damage sites; whereas in non-S-phase cells, CHAF1A preferentially promotes the recruitment of KU70 to support NHEJ. Functionally, silencing CHAF1A markedly enhances tumor radiosensitivity, as robustly validated in cell-derived xenograft models and supported by proof-of-concept evidence from a patient-derived xenograft model. Collectively, our findings establish CHAF1A as a pivotal regulator of DNA damage repair in lung cancer models and position it as a promising therapeutic target for overcoming radioresistance.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
The regulatory mechanism of the long noncoding RNA SNHG6 in acute pulmonary embolism (APE) remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the potential molecular mechanisms of SNHG6 in APE. This study established a clinical cohort comprising 120 APE patients and 120 healthy controls. It combined in vitro experiments using human pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells (PASMCs) with in vivo experiments employing an autologous blood clot model of APE in Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats, measuring mean pulmonary artery pressure (mPAP). RT-qPCR was used to detect target gene expression. The CCK-8 assay evaluated cell proliferation, while the ELISA and western blot assays measured the relevant protein levels. The RIP assay and dual luciferase assay validated the target binding relationship. SNHG6 was significantly overexpressed in both serum samples from APE patients and lung tissues from model rats. In this exploratory case-control cohort, serum SNHG6 exhibited significant discriminatory capacity between APE patients and healthy controls (AUC = 0.9145) and showed an independent cross‑sectional association with APE status in multivariate analysis within this selected cohort. However, because serum SNHG6 was measured after diagnosis, this association should be interpreted strictly as a correlative finding rather than as evidence of prospective predictive or etiologic value. These findings require validation in clinically relevant populations with differential diagnoses. Mechanistic studies revealed that SNHG6 targeted and regulated miR-429, which in turn targeted DUSP1. In cultured PASMCs, SNHG6 acted as a competitive endogenous RNA to sequester miR-429, thereby releasing its suppression on the downstream target gene DUSP1. This upregulated the expression of proliferation-related molecules such as NOR-1 and PCNA, positively regulating PDGF-BB-induced PASMC cell proliferation. Animal experiments performed at a 7‑day subacute endpoint demonstrated that SNHG6 perturbation was associated with altered mean pulmonary artery pressure and early proliferative molecular markers during the early phase following embolic challenge. In cultured PASMCs, specific sponging of miR-429 by SNHG6 may attenuate the inhibitory effect of miR-429 on DUSP1, potentially contributing to exacerbated APE pathological manifestations.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
The rarer p190 (e1a2) transcript in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is associated with atypical presentations; yet, its biological basis remains poorly understood. Using a cohort of 60 patients including 42 chronic phase patients age-matched 1:1 with 42 e13a2/e14a2 patients in the chronic phase, we investigated the clinical, genomic, and clonal features of e1a2 BCR::ABL1 CML. We identified 60 e1a2 BCR::ABL1 CML patients showing distinctive hematologic features including lower leukocyte and platelet counts and higher monocytosis (12.3% vs. 2.0%, P < 0.001). Additional somatic mutations were detected in 37/42 (88%) e1a2 BCR::ABL1 cases compared with 7/42 (17%) e13a2/e14a2 BCR::ABL1 cases. The mutational spectrum was dominated by ASXL1 and TET2, and closely resembled CMML-like profiles. Genomic breakpoint sequences of 34 e1a2 BCR::ABL1 cases showed that BCR and ABL1 coordinates were similar to those observed in 394 B-ALL. Longitudinal mutational tracking revealed two distinct clonal architectures. In 71% of patients, mutations disappeared with molecular response, consistent with BCR::ABL1 as the founding event. In contrast, 29% of patients had mutations with stable VAFs, while BCR::ABL1 transcript levels decreased after treatment, indicating that the fusion had been acquired within a pre-existing mutated clone. Single-cell genotyping experiments confirmed these clonal architectures. These patients frequently developed cytopenias under tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy and half required red blood cell transfusions, reflecting persistence of the ancestral clone rather than BCR::ABL1-driven disease. These findings show that e1a2 BCR::ABL1 CML frequently arises within complex, premutated clonal backgrounds, providing a biological basis for its atypical presentation and heterogeneous treatment response.© 2026 The Author(s). HemaSphere published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of European Hematology Association.
Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is a rare hematologic malignancy in children, typically presenting with leukocytosis in the peripheral blood, and often accompanied by symptoms such as fever or splenomegaly. This report describes a rare pediatric case of CML that manifested solely as isolated thrombocytosis. Due to this atypical presentation, the patient was initially misdiagnosed with essential thrombocythemia (ET) and treated with hydroxyurea and aspirin, which yielded no clinical response. The diagnosis of CML was subsequently confirmed by detection of the BCR::ABL1 fusion gene. Upon confirmation, the patient was promptly initiated on imatinib therapy and achieved a complete cytogenetic response within 4 months. We also conducted a literature review of similar cases, discussing their prognosis and differential diagnosis with ET, and recommend early BCR::ABL1 fusion gene testing in all pediatric patients presenting with isolated thrombocytosis to ensure accurate diagnosis.© 2026 He and Fu.
Early achievement of deep remission improves patients' outcome in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) treatment, highlighting the need for predictive indicators before therapy initiation. This study aimed to investigate whether baseline hematologic profiles are associated with molecular response in CML. Using hierarchical clustering of complete blood count (CBC) data at diagnosis, patients were stratified into two clusters. Patients in Cluster 1 had higher BCR::ABL1IS mRNA levels at 3 and 6 months post-treatment and lower rates of major molecular response compared to cluster 2. Cluster 1 also showed increased granulocyte and immature white blood cell counts and decreased erythroid parameters. Flow cytometric analysis of bone marrow mononuclear cells revealed that cluster 1 had a significant increase in hematopoietic stem cell fractions and a higher ratio of granulocyte-macrophage progenitors to megakaryocyte-erythroid progenitors compared to cluster 2. These findings suggest that differences in bone marrow progenitor cell differentiation affect peripheral blood profiles. Artificial intelligence-driven ghost cytometry (GC) comprehensively captured these differences, distinguishing poor responders, with diagnostic GC scores correlating with BCR::ABL1IS mRNA levels. The study indicates that multivariate analysis of CBC and GC captures biological features associated with early molecular response in CML. TEASER ABSTRACT: Baseline complete blood count (CBC) profiles stratified patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) into biologically distinct groups with different early molecular responses. Poor responders had higher BCR::ABL1IS levels, lower major molecular response rates, expanded hematopoietic stem cell fractions, and granulocyte-macrophage progenitor-biased differentiation. Artificial intelligence-driven Ghost Cytometry (GC) comprehensively captured these response-associated features of CBC with scores correlating with BCR::ABL1IS levels. Together, CBC and GC capture biological features associated with early molecular response in CML.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) is a common extracolonic manifestation of Lynch syndrome (LS) characterized by mismatch repair deficiency (MMR-D) and microsatellite instability (MSI). LS detection in UTUC relies on tissue- and clinical-based screening, which can fail to detect pathogenic germline variants (PGVs). We sought to determine the prevalence and spectrum of PGVs in UTUC through universally offered germline testing.In this retrospective, single-institution cohort, between 2020 and 2025, UTUC patients were universally offered germline testing, at no cost, irrespective of hereditary cancer suspicion. Concordance between germline findings and immunohistochemistry (IHC), MSI status, and screening criteria was assessed.Of patients referred, 46% (128 of 281) completed testing. LS-associated MMR PGVs were detected in 3.1% (n = 4) and overall PGVs in 6.3% (n = 8). PGVs included MSH6 (n = 3), MSH2 (n = 1), BRCA1 (n = 2), CHEK2 (n = 1), and monoallelic NTHL1 (n = 1). Of MMR PGV carriers, NCCN LS screening criteria identified 50% (2 of 4), Amsterdam II identified none, and 1 patient scored below the PREMM5 ≥ 2.5% threshold. IHC was discordant in 78% (7 of 9) of MMR-D patients who lacked a germline MMR PGV; 50% (2 of 4) of MMR PGV carriers had intact MMR expression. One MSH6 PGV carrier was not detected by any screening strategy.LS-associated PGV prevalence in UTUC mirrors colorectal and endometrial cancer cohorts undergoing universal genetic testing, where LS testing is standard, supporting liberalized referral for germline testing.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Muir-Torre syndrome (MTs) is a rare autosomal dominant disorder characterized by sebaceous neoplasms and internal malignancies, most commonly colorectal and urothelial cancers. Prostate cancer is exceptionally rare in MTs, with only thirteen cases reported to date.We present the case of a 65-year-old male initially diagnosed with MTs following the development of multiple sebaceous tumors and identification of a heterozygous MSH6 mutation. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated isolated loss of MSH6 protein expression, with preserved microsatellite stability - an unusual finding in MTs. Despite two negative prostate biopsies and a transurethral resection, choline positron emission tomography imaging revealed hypermetabolic pelvic and cervical lymph nodes. Excisional biopsy confirmed metastatic prostate adenocarcinoma (NKX3.1-positive). The patient received first-line androgen deprivation therapy with an LH-RH analog and apalutamide, achieving a sustained biochemical response. He remained alive and on treatment with undetectable PSA 3 years later, at the age of 74.This case highlights the diagnostic challenges of prostate cancer in MTs and the need to consider metastatic disease in atypical presentations, especially when MMR deficiency is suspected.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Early-onset colorectal cancer (EOCRC), defined as colorectal cancer diagnosed before the age of 50 years, is increasing worldwide, with a similar trend emerging in China. However, the clinicopathological and mismatch repair features of EOCRC in Chinese patients remain insufficiently characterized. We retrospectively reviewed 23,414 colorectal neoplasia cases diagnosed at West China Hospital between November 2008 and June 2023. Among these, 4,159 colorectal cancer cases with complete immunohistochemical assessment of MLH1, PMS2, MSH2, and MSH6 were included in the primary analysis. Clinicopathological characteristics and mismatch repair status were compared between EOCRC and late-onset colorectal cancer (LOCRC), with additional stratification by documented family history. Multivariable logistic regression was used to evaluate the independent association between early-onset status and deficient mismatch repair (dMMR). Compared with LOCRC, EOCRC showed less favorable clinicopathological features, including higher proportions of poor differentiation, T4 tumors, nodal involvement, and advanced TNM stage. EOCRC also had a significantly higher prevalence of dMMR. In multivariable analysis, early-onset status was independently associated with dMMR in the overall cohort (adjusted OR, 2.27; 95% CI, 1.60-3.22; p < 0.001), and among patients without documented family history (adjusted OR, 1.95; 95% CI, 1.33-2.86; p < 0.001). Patterns of MMR protein loss differed according to documented family history status. In conclusion, EOCRC in this Chinese MMR-tested cohort was associated with more advanced clinicopathological features and a higher prevalence of dMMR, supporting routine MMR assessment in young patients with colorectal cancer.© 2026 UICC.
Microsatellite instability (MSI) has broad biologic and clinical relevance across solid tumors, yet its role in sarcomas remains poorly defined. We delineate the clinicopathologic, molecular, and treatment-response landscape of MSI in sarcomas using the largest clinically sequenced cohort to date.MSI status was assessed in 6,449 bone and soft tissue tumors, including 5,992 sarcomas from 5,162 patients, using targeted next-generation sequencing and validated bioinformatic pipelines.Forty-one sarcomas (0.7%) were MSI-high (MSI-H), comprising 31 soft tissue and 10 bone sarcomas. All exhibited complex genomic profiles, except for one Ewing sarcoma. Pleomorphic sarcomas predominated, mainly undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma (UPS) and pleomorphic rhabdomyosarcoma (PRMS) followed by radiation-associated sarcoma. Subtype-specific analysis revealed the highest frequencies of MSI-H in PRMS (4/11, 36%) and radiation-associated sarcomas (6/24, 25%). Tumor mutational burden was higher in MSI-H sarcomas than microsatellite-stable sarcomas but lower than MSI-H carcinomas, while mismatch repair mutational signatures were comparable. Somatic MMR alterations were the primary mechanism (62%), most commonly involving MLH1; MSH2 and MLH1 predominated in Lynch syndrome-associated cases. TP53 (83%) and NF1 (51%) were frequent somatic co-alterations. Among 11 patients treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI), 3 achieved durable clinical benefit of more than 6 months. PD-L1 expression was higher in responders, whereas alterations in immune-modulator genes were observed in some non-responders.MSI is rare in sarcomas (<1%) but enriched in pleomorphic sarcomas, particularly PRMS, and radiation-associated sarcoma. Universal MMR screening of these subtypes may identify candidates for ICI and reveal underlying Lynch syndrome, although responses remain heterogeneous and require further studies.
Current clinical approaches to inherited prostate cancer (PCa) risk rely on binary classification of pathogenic variant (PV) carrier status without accounting for gene-specific heterogeneity or polygenic risk. We developed an integrated genetic risk model reflecting a continuum of inherited susceptibility.In the UK Biobank (UKB; n=218 484), we evaluated associations of PVs in 11 clinically recommended genes and a polygenic risk score (PRS) with incident PCa using Cox models. A continuum model (GenProb-PCa) incorporating gene-specific PVs and PRS was developed and compared with binary PV-based models. Model performance was assessed using discrimination, calibration and continuous net reclassification index (cNRI). External validation was performed in a health system cohort, the Genomic Health Initiative (GHI; n=6590).Five genes (ATM, BRCA2, CHEK2, HOXB13, MSH2) and the PRS were independently associated with PCa risk (all p<0.001) in UKB. Compared with binary models, GenProb-PCa demonstrated superior discrimination (C-index 0.69 vs 0.52; p<0.001), with significant improvement in reclassification (cNRI 0.58; p<0.001). Findings were validated in GHI using the UKB-derived coefficients (C-index 0.64 vs 0.54, p<0.001; cNRI 0.31, p<0.001). Compared with binary PV-based models, 20% of non-PV carriers were reclassified to higher risk groups and 60% of carriers to lower risk groups. The model identified individuals at markedly elevated lifetime risk, with cumulative incidence exceeding 20% by age 75 among the top 8% of the distribution.An integrated continuum genetic risk model, GenProb-PCa, improves PCa risk stratification beyond binary approaches by capturing heterogeneity in inherited risk. This framework may enable more precise risk-based screening strategies.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
This study aimed to identify germline pathogenic/likely pathogenic variants in DNA damage repair genes associated with increased cancer risk in Korean patients with biliary tract cancer and characterize their population-specific patterns.In this retrospective multicenter cohort study, we performed germline whole-exome sequencing in 172 Korean patients diagnosed with intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (n = 83) or gallbladder cancer (n = 89) between June 2001 and February 2022. Germline variants were analyzed in 210 hereditary cancer genes, and the germline landscape of this cohort was compared with that of global cohorts.Pathogenic/likely pathogenic variants were identified in 24 of 172 (14.0%) patients, predominantly in DNA damage repair genes (18 of 24 [75.0%]). BRCA2 was among the most frequently altered genes, harboring two distinct pathogenic variants (2 of 24 [8.3%]; both cases of intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma). Of the 24 carriers, five (20.8%) harbored Tier 1-2 variants of potential, tumor-confirmation-dependent therapeutic relevance. Notably, 15 of 24 (62.5%) carriers reported no family cancer history. In population-stratified comparisons across nine biliary tract cancer cohorts (n = 4,018), PMS2 showed a Korean-enriched signal after accounting for heterogeneous gene coverage, whereas TP53 showed only a directional, non-significant increase after multiple-testing correction.The study findings provide reference data for genetic counseling in East Asian patients with biliary tract cancer and suggest that germline testing may warrant consideration regardless of family history.
Subhepatic appendicitis is a rare anatomical variant that mimics hepatobiliary pathology, leading to diagnostic delay and technical difficulty at surgery. We describe a 69-year-old man who underwent emergency laparoscopic appendicectomy for sepsis, complicated by dense subhepatic adhesions resulting in incomplete resection and a retained appendiceal tip. Histopathological examination unexpectedly demonstrated moderately differentiated appendiceal adenocarcinoma with isolated loss of postmeiotic segregation increased 2 expression. Three weeks later, the patient re-presented with recurrent sepsis due to pyogenic liver abscesses and a hepatic lesion suspicious for metastatic disease. Multidisciplinary assessment led to radical right hemicolectomy, cholecystectomy, and limited liver resection. Final histopathology confirmed locally advanced disease with direct T4 invasion into the liver and clear (R0) margins. This case highlights the need to consider subhepatic appendicitis in unexplained right upper quadrant sepsis and emphasizes the importance of early multidisciplinary management when retained appendiceal tissue is suspected, as radical resection may be curative.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press and JSCR Publishing Ltd.
Due to a rapid cell turnover, the esophageal stratified squamous epithelium must maintain homeostasis. This process is ensured by a long-lived subpopulation of basal stem cells that express Keratin 15 (Krt15). However, the mechanisms that specifically control their characteristics, i.e. self-renewal, multipotency and regeneration, remain unknown. Interestingly, MutS Homolog 2 (Msh2), implicated in the DNA mismatch repair pathway, is the most upregulated gene in Krt15+ esophageal stem cells compared to Krt15- cells. Accentuated DNA repair capacity is often observed in stem cells to maintain their genomic integrity and avoid the acquisition of mutations. Hence, this study aimed to evaluate the effects of Msh2 loss on stem cell functions, including differentiation, clonogenicity, and proliferation, in murine esophageal organoids. Msh2-depleted organoids were generated by CRISPR/Cas9. They displayed morphogenic alterations and significant homeostasis perturbations. Cell differentiation was decreased while clonogenicity and proliferation were increased. Loss of Msh2 also caused lower expression of stem cell markers and changes in response to chemotherapy drugs. Proteomic analysis confirmed variations in epithelial cell differentiation and showed major changes in proteins associated with metabolic processes. In line with these results, metabolomic analysis confirmed an altered abundance of various metabolites of the TCA cycle and biosynthetic pathways. In conclusion, these results showed that Msh2 is implicated in the homeostasis of esophageal organoids, potentially through metabolic rewiring.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Immune evasion in lung cancer is tightly regulated by epigenetic mechanisms. This study identifies key epigenetic drivers of immune escape in lung cancer and elucidates how they remodel the tumor microenvironment to induce CD8+ T cell exhaustion. We performed a CRISPR-negative screen targeting 159 epigenetic regulators (mEpi driver library) in a mouse model of lung metastasis and used single-cell sequencing, cell-based experiments, and chromatin analyses to identify mechanisms of immune escape. SET domain-containing protein 2 (SETD2) emerged as a critical suppressor of immune evasion. Loss of SETD2 markedly increased lung colonization and metastasis in mice with intact T cells, whereas this effect disappeared after T cell depletion. Mechanistically, SETD2 recruited adenine-thymine-rich interaction domain-containing protein 2 (ARID2) to maintain a repressive chromatin state at genes encoding the chemokines C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1, 2, and 5. Loss of the SETD2-ARID2 axis increased secretion of these chemokines and recruited polymorphonuclear myeloid-derived suppressor cells, which inhibit T cell responses. These cells increased expression of free fatty acid receptor 2 (FFAR2), depleted arginine from the tumor environment, and impaired signaling required for T cell activation, driving cytotoxic T cells into terminal exhaustion. Depleting polymorphonuclear myeloid-derived suppressor cells or conditionally deleting FFAR2 in these cells restored T cell function and reduced metastasis of SETD2-deficient tumors. These findings show that loss of SETD2 creates an arginine-depleted, immunosuppressive tumor environment through a chemokine-FFAR2 pathway, revealing an epigenetic-metabolic immune checkpoint that may inform combination treatments for lung cancer.Copyright © 2026 Xuyu Gu et al.
Primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL) is a rare extranodal lymphoma, with diffuse large B cell lymphoma accounting for most cases. T cell variants are uncommon and associated with poor outcomes. We report a case of primary CNS T cell lymphoma with simultaneous brain and spinal cord involvement. A 37-year-old Japanese man presented with impaired consciousness, and brain magnetic resonance imaging revealed multiple contrast-enhancing parenchymal lesions. Histopathological examination of a brain biopsy specimen demonstrated medium- to large-sized atypical lymphoid cells, leading to a diagnosis of peripheral T cell lymphoma, not otherwise specified (PTCL-NOS). Comprehensive systemic evaluation showed no extracranial disease; however, contrast-enhanced spinal magnetic resonance imaging revealed extensive lesions from the cervical spinal cord to the thoracic spinal cord. Next-generation sequencing analysis identified a mutation in SETD2, possibly contributing to the aggressive disease behavior. The patient received methotrexate, procarbazine, and vincristine as first-line therapy and achieved an initial radiological complete response. However, rapid disease relapse occurred with newly developed lesions in the pineal gland and cranial nerves, and the patient died shortly after initiation of consolidation therapy. This case highlights the aggressive clinical course of primary CNS T cell lymphoma with spinal cord involvement and underscores the importance of molecular genetic profiling in this rare entity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Disruption of host-microbiota homeostasis is a fundamental hallmark of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) pathogenesis. Host epigenetic modifications and corresponding alterations in gene expression levels can impact the composition of gut microbes. SET domain containing 2 (SETD2) is a critical epigenetic regulator with established tumor-suppressive roles, but its function in intestinal microbial ecology and colitis progression remains unexplored. We aimed to investigate the specific role of SETD2 in maintaining gut microbial homeostasis and modulating colitis progression.RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), assay for transposase-accessible chromatin with high-throughput sequencing (ATAC-seq) and cleavage under targets and tagmentation sequencing (CUT&Tag-seq) were conducted on colonic epithelial cells from intestinal epithelial cell-specific SETD2 knockout (Setd2vil-ko) mice to identify key mediators contributing to colitis development. Faecal samples underwent 16S rRNA sequencing and non-targeted metabolomics analysis to characterise microbial dysbiosis and metabolic perturbations. Molecular experiments and faecal microbiome transplantation experiment were conducted to explore and validate the role of SETD2 in colitis development.SETD2 deficiency induced overproduction of Reg3 lectins and disrupted gut microbiota composition. Beneficial commensal bacteria were depleted and dysregulated metabolites were accumulated in Setd2vil-ko mice. Supplementation with healthy-like gut microbiota significantly ameliorated the exacerbated colitis induced by SETD2 deficiency.Our findings uncover a previously unrecognised role for SETD2 in maintaining microbial homeostasis, offering new mechanistic insights into how epigenetic regulation preserves intestinal homeostasis and suggesting novel therapeutic avenues for IBD.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical and Translational Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Shanghai Institute of Clinical Bioinformatics.
In clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC), stage dominates prognosis, and grading of tubular dedifferentiation depends on observer judgment. We evaluated the Tissue Memory Score (TMS), a continuous measure of retained proximal tubular identity, for independent prognosis, biological validity, platform robustness, and replication.TMS scores a tumor's proximity to the kidney centroid in a locked principal-component space of 2,694 healthy GTEx samples; higher values denote greater kidney identity. The prespecified cohort was TCGA-KIRC (n = 540); a rank-based variant was transferred between platforms. Multivariable Cox regression adjusted for stage, purity, and mutational burden tested the overall-survival association, with a disease-specific analysis. Biological validity used ClearCode34, renal markers, ISUP grade, and BAP1, PBRM1, and SETD2 status. External validation used CPTAC-3 and E-MTAB-1980, pooled by random-effects meta-analysis.TMS was independently associated with overall survival (HR 0.595 per SD; P = 6.6 × 10-5) and improved discrimination over stage (paired ΔC-index 0.0189). The rank-based score reproduced it (Spearman ρ = 0.976), and the association was stronger for disease-specific survival (hazard ratio [HR] 0.43). TMS was higher in ClearCode34 ccA than ccB tumors (Cohen d = 0.93), fell with grade, and separated BAP1-mutant (lower) from PBRM1-mutant (higher) tumors. It replicated in E-MTAB-1980 (HR 0.51; 0.63 stage-adjusted) and was concordant in CPTAC-3 (HR 0.78). In stage II-III disease, 5-year survival differed by 17.3 points by TMS tertile (adjusted HR 0.56).TMS is a platform-robust, biologically anchored measure of proximal tubular identity loss that replicated externally and warrants prospective evaluation for post-nephrectomy ccRCC risk stratification.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Colonic ganglioneuromas in children are rare, particularly without associated hereditary syndromes like multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN2B), neurofibromatosis type 1(NF1), or Phosphatase and tensin homolog hamartoma tumor syndrome (PHTS). We report a 12-year-old male with a history of juvenile polyposis syndrome (JPS) and segmental colonic resection for high distal disease burden. During surveillance colonoscopy, a solitary ascending colon polyp was retrieved and found to be a ganglioneuroma. Genetic testing showed gl-9 family hypoxia inducible factor 1 and succinate dehydrogenase complex flavoprotein subunit A variants in the patient and MutL homolog 3 and MutS homolog 3 variants in both the patient and his mother. All genes discovered were classified as variants of uncertain significance. There was no genetic or clinical evidence of MEN2B, NF1, or PHTS. This case highlights that JPS is a heterogenous disorder and may involve increased risk of developing unique polyp subtypes which are not typically associated with that condition. Current JPS recommendations suggest that surveillance colonoscopy may be performed every 3 years which may be insufficient in situations involving novel mutations or unknown JPS genetics.© 2026 The Author(s). JPGN Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The European Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition and the North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42512891 is a review article
Sarcomatoid carcinoma of the upper urinary tract (SCUT) is a rare and aggressive malignancy. Due to its rarity, the molecular landscape and the prevalence of potentially targetable alterations are poorly characterized. We aimed to compare the clinical, pathological, and genomic profiles of SCUT and upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC).We leveraged the Tempus Lens clinically annotated genomic dataset to extract clinicopathologic and somatic genomic alteration data from patients with UTUC and SCUT. Patients with any-stage disease who underwent either blood- or tissue-based next-generation sequencing were included. Baseline clinical and demographic characteristics were summarized using descriptive statistics. Comparisons between groups were performed using Wilcoxon rank-sum test for continuous variables and the Chi-square test/Fisher's exact test for categorical variables. Mutational frequencies and pairwise comparisons were performed to assess significant differences between groups.In total, 1721 patients were included, of which 1600 (93%) had UTUC and 121 (7%) had SCUT. Patients with SCUT were younger at diagnosis, 61 years (interquartile range (IQR) 54, 70), compared to UTUC, 71 years (IQR 64, 77) (p < 0.001), and were more likely to have node-positive disease at presentation (all p < 0.001). SCUT patients were more likely to show visceral metastases to the lung (44% vs. 21%), bone (31% vs. 17%), and brain (7% vs. 1%), compared to UTUC (all p < 0.05). Among SCUT patients, the most common genomic alterations were TERT (30%), TP53 (29%), NF2 (19%), PTEN (13%), SETD2 (12%), PBRM1 (12%), and BAP1 (8%). Among UTUC patients, the most common were TERT (52%), TP53 (52%), KMT2D (30%), FGFR3 (25%), ARID1A (20%), and KDM6A (18%). Compared to UTUC, SCUT was significantly enriched with NF2, SETD2, PBRM1, PTEN, and BAP1 (all p < 0.05). SCUT was depleted in FGFR3 (0% vs. 25%) and FGF4 (0% vs. 8%) mutations compared to UTUC (both p < 0.05). Targetable alterations were observed in SCUT, including NF2, SETD2, and PTEN. Conclusion: Compared with UTUC, SCUT exhibits a more aggressive clinical and genomic phenotype, characterized by enrichment in NF2, SETD2, PBRM1, and PTEN. These findings underscore the divergent molecular landscape of SCUT and highlight potentially targetable genomic alterations.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42512002 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511747 is a review article
Homozygous deletion of 9p21, containing CDKN2A/B and MTAP (CMdel), underlies emerging therapeutic strategies including PRMT5/MAT2A inhibition. The clinicogenomic context and treatment outcomes of CMdel in NSCLC remain incompletely defined.We analyzed Tempus Lens records with paired DNA/RNA sequencing. After quality filtering, 16,947 patients were included in the primary dataset and 10,996 in the validation dataset, and stratified by deletion status (CMdel vs CMwt). Interferon status was defined by interferon-kappa (IFNK) expression (log2[TPM+1]) using the 25th percentile of CMwt as threshold. Immune composition was inferred by quanTIseq. First-line regimens were grouped as ICI-mono, ICI-chemo, chemotherapy, or TKI. Best response and time-to-next-treatment with risk-set adjustment were assessed.CMdel occurred in 11.7% (n=1,991) and 15% (n=1,676), and was enriched in mucinous histology, stage IV disease, and never-smokers. CMdel associated with EGFR, TERT, and SMARCA4 alterations, whereas CMwt associated with RB1, SETD2 and ARID2. >50% of CMdel tumors harbored targetable co-alterations, enriched in EGFR/ALK/RET and relatively depleted in KRAS. CMdel tumors exhibited lower PD-L1, mutation burden, and immune infiltration. TTNT did not differ by CM status for ICI-mono or TKI, but was shorter in CMdel for ICI-chemo and chemotherapy. Discordant and broad deletions were less common and had weaker TTNT association. IFNK-low expression marked immune-excluded subgroups with worse treatment outcomes.CDKN2A/MTAP loss defines a prevalent, genomically distinct NSCLC subset enriched in actionable drivers. CMdel associates with worse outcomes to ICI/chemotherapy-containing regimens. These findings highlight convergent biology at 9p21 and support biomarker-guided development of PRMT5/MAT2A inhibitors in MTAP-deleted NSCLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564071 is a review article
Candida spp. and Pichia spp. undergo morphological transitions and invade host tissues through biofilm formation, making fungal infections more difficult to treat. To identify new antifungal compounds, this study evaluated the effects of valencene and nootkatone on fungal pleomorphism, biofilm eradication, interactions with virulence-associated proteins, antioxidant activity, and pharmacokinetic properties. Moist chamber assays were used to evaluate the pleomorphic transition of Candida albicans, Candida tropicalis, and Pichia kudriavzevii at concentrations ranging from 128 to 1024 μg/mL. Antioxidant activity was assessed using the DPPH (2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl) spectrophotometric assay. Biofilm biomass and metabolic activity were quantified by crystal violet staining and tetrazolium salt reduction, respectively. Molecular docking analyses were performed using Candida proteins retrieved from the Protein Data Bank and prepared with AutoDockTools®, while physicochemical and pharmacokinetic properties were predicted through in silico analyses. Valencene inhibited filament formation in all evaluated strains, whereas nootkatone inhibited filamentation only in C. albicans. Neither compound exhibited antioxidant activity. In biofilm assays, valencene reduced both biomass and metabolic activity in C. albicans. In C. tropicalis, both parameters were reduced by more than 50%. In P. kudriavzevii, valencene and fluconazole reduced both biofilm biomass and metabolic activity. Both compounds displayed favorable interactions with agglutinin-like sequence proteins, secreted aspartyl proteinases, Exo-1,3-β-glucanase, and Ras-like GTPase1, proteins involved in fungal adhesion and tissue invasion. Absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion, and toxicity (ADMET) predictions indicated a favorable pharmacokinetic profile, including low interaction potential, efficient elimination, and high predicted skin permeability. However, further experimental studies are required to confirm their safety.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Multifaceted CTCF facilitates double-strand break (DSB) repair via homologous recombination (HR), and BRCA1/BARD1 play key roles in HR. However, whether and how CTCF cooperates with BRCA1/BARD1 for HR remain poorly understood. Here, we show CTCF recruits repressive chromatin proteins, HP1γ, KAP1, SUV39H1, SETDB1, and KDM5A, thereby enabling rapid accumulation of BRCA1/BARD1 at DSBs. CTCF depletion abrogates the enrichment of these repressive chromatin proteins, accompanied by loss of H3K9 methylation/H3K4 demethylation at DSBs, resulting in defective rapid BRCA1/BARD1 recruitment. Deprivation of one component of the repressive chromatin proteins or deregulating H3K9 methylation/H3K4 demethylation compromises the immediate accumulation of the other repressive chromatin proteins as well as BRCA1/BARD1 on DSBs. Consequently, recruitment of the exonucleases EXO1/DNA2 is abrogated, which is causally linked to defective DNA end resection and dysfunctional HR. Collectively, our findings suggest that CTCF establishes a hierarchical recruitment cascade in HR, by coordinating the repressive chromatin assembly and BRCA1/BARD1 recruitment at DSBs, facilitating the exonucleases EXO1/DNA2-mediated extensive DNA resection. Finally, we identify a critical role of CTCF in coupling BRCA1/BARD1 with the HR licensing point, the DNA end resection step, for HR.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Is exome sequencing (ES) an efficient approach for simultaneous analysis of causative single gene defects and copy number variants (CNV) in unexplained premature ovarian insufficiency (POI)?Among 51 idiopathic POI cases, a conservative molecular diagnostic yield of 12% was achieved with equal contribution of pathogenic or likely pathogenic (P/LP) monogenic causes and pathogenic microdeletions.POI is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous condition, yet most cases remain idiopathic. Although numerous monogenic causes and CNVs have been implicated in POI, standardized clinical guidelines for comprehensive genetic analysis are still lacking.This observational study of 51 unexplained POI cases implemented an all-in-one ES-based approach to analyze P and LP variants in 288 POI candidate genes and large (>0.5 Mb) pathogenic CNVs leading to POI.Patients were recruited and phenotyped at two tertiary care women's health and endocrinology centers in Estonia. Bioinformatic processing of ES data and assessment of rare causal variants in POI were performed using an in-house analysis pipeline including automated filtering and manual assessment for pathogenicity, followed by experimental validation via Sanger sequencing (monogenic findings) and chromosomal microarray analysis (CNVs).Six of 51 unexplained POI cases had confident molecular findings, including three cases with P/LP monogenic variants and three carrying large pathogenic CNVs. Overall molecular diagnostic yield was estimated to be 12% (6 of 51). There was a statistically significant overrepresentation of likely causal genetic findings in primary amenorrhea (5 of 9 cases, 56%) compared to secondary amenorrhea/oligomenorrhea (1 of 42 cases, 2%) (P = 3.0 × 10-4). Primary amenorrhea cases presented diverse findings-TP63 p.(Arg97Gly) in three sisters (including one identified by cascade screening), 15q25.2 microdeletion in two unrelated subjects (POI relevant haploinsufficient genes: CPEB1, BNC1), and NR5A1 p.(Gly328Arg) in one case. A secondary amenorrhea case with ∼8.5 Mb microdeletion at Xq27.3-Xq28 enabled us to narrow down a critical region for non-recurrent Xq terminal losses causing POI (relevant haploinsufficient genes FMR1, AFF2, CETN2, HAUS7, and EMD). Additionally, heterozygous variants TBX6 c.622-2A>T, EXO1 c.136del, and NR2F2 p.(Val307Ala), as well as 1q21.1 microdeletion (two carriers), 1p36.22, and 12q21.1 microduplications were classified as potentially interesting Variants of Uncertain Significance (VUS) that require validation before their causal link to isolated POI can be assigned. TBX6 c.622-2A>T and 1q21.1 del have been implicated in other primary phenotypes, Mayer-Rokitansky-Küster-Hauser syndrome (MRKH, Müllerian anomalies), and 1q21.1 microdeletion syndrome (MIM #612474), respectively. A novel variant NR2F2 p.(Val307Ala) was identified in an isolated oligomenorrhea patient; the same substitution was independently detected in an unrelated male subject presenting oligozoospermia and unilateral cryptorchidism. No autosomal recessive POI cases were identified in our cohort, supporting a high level of heterogeneity and population-specificity in the genetic etiologies of POI, likely shaped by diverse demographic histories.All variants linked identified in this study have been submitted to the NCBI ClinVar database (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/clinvar/) and FerGI (https://www.eshre.eu/Specialty-groups/Special-Interest-Groups/Reproductive-Genetics/FeRGI) databases.All recruited participants were of white European ancestry and living in Estonia. Thus, the results might not apply to other ethnic groups. This study was conducted in a relatively small and well-selected cohort. Validation in larger and more diverse cohorts is needed to further assess the utility of ES in solving idiopathic POI cases.The study's findings support the efficient use of ES as a comprehensive, all-in-one genetic test to achieve molecular diagnosis in unexplained POI, capturing both monogenic variants and pathogenic CNVs. Expanded genetic testing in POI is conceptually and clinically justified to reduce idiopathic cases and enable timely personalized management of reproductive and general health, including cascade testing of at-risk relatives. Given that ES enables the detection of both monogenic variants and CNVs, stepwise strategies may no longer be the most optimal, underscoring an urgent need to develop a standardized pipeline and guidelines for the generation, analysis, and interpretation of NGS data as well as for the counseling and management of patients based on their molecular findings.This study was funded by the Estonian Research Council grants PRG1021 and PRG3041 (to M.L.).The authors declare no conflicts of interest.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology.
DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair pathway choice is strongly influenced by DNA end resection, a process in which the 5' DNA strand is degraded to generate 3' single-stranded DNA required for homologous recombination. Although the enzymatic mechanisms of resection have been well defined, its regulation by the dynamic chromatin environment surrounding the DNA break remains less clear. Here, we used the budding yeast cdc13-1 system to analyse DNA end resection after telomere deprotection. Inactivation of Cdc13, a component of the CST (Cdc13-Stn1-Ten1) telomere-capping complex, exposes telomeric DNA ends and triggers a DNA damage response. Using this system, we examined the contribution of long-range resection nucleases and chromatin regulators. Analysis of long-range resection nucleases revealed that the Dna2 nuclease contributes to telomeric processing, particularly in the absence of the exonuclease Exo1. Genetic removal of chromatin regulatory factors showed that H2A.Z, a histone H2A variant incorporated by the SWR1 complex, did not significantly affect resection, whereas depletion of the major nucleosome eviction complexes RSC and SWI/SNF impaired resection after telomere deprotection. Together, these results indicate that nucleosome eviction allows for efficient resection at deprotected telomeres and the analogies to long-range resection at DSBs illustrate the utility of the cdc13-1 system for studying long-range resection in broader context.Copyright: © 2026 Deiser et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
S-RNase-mediated gametophytic self-incompatibility (GSI) prevents self‑fertilization by inhibiting the growth of self-pollen tubes, yet the contribution of DNA metabolism, particularly radiation sensitive 2 (RAD2) family nucleases, to this process remains largely unknown. In this study, 49 RAD2 family genes were identified across pear and eight other fruit crops and classified into four conserved subfamilies (XPG, FEN-1, EXO1, and SEND). Of these, six RAD2 members were identified in pear, among which only PbrFEN-1 was significantly downregulated in pollen tubes treated with self S-RNases compared to non-self S-RNases, Furthermore, overexpression of PbrFEN-1 was found to alleviate the toxic effect of self S-RNase, indicating its involvement in the GSI response. Notably, antisense oligonucleotide-mediated knockdown of PbrFEN-1 disrupted ROS homeostasis at the pollen tube tip, leading to reduced ROS levels and subsequent inhibition of pollen tube growth. In contrast, pollen magnetofection-mediated overexpression of PbrFEN-1 helped maintain ROS homeostasis at the pollen tube tip, which was associated with faster pollen tube growth. These results suggest that PbrFEN-1 positively regulates ROS levels at the tip of pollen tube to support pollen tube elongation. These findings extend the mechanistic understanding of S-RNase-mediated GSI to the level of DNA metabolism and genome stability, providing new insights into the molecular basis of pollen tube inhibition in Rosaceae species.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Metaplastic breast cancer (MpBC) is a rare and aggressive breast cancer subtype characterised by marked histological heterogeneity, therapeutic resistance and poor clinical outcomes. Despite increasing molecular research, existing evidence remains fragmented, heterogeneous and poorly integrated, limiting clinical translation and biomarker validation.We developed an integrative analytical framework combining systematic review, quantitative meta-analysis, transcriptomic profiling and interpretable machine learning to identify and prioritise molecular markers in MpBC. A Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta Analyses-guided systematic review was conducted across PubMed, arXiv and Semantic Scholar. Effect sizes were standardised to Cohen's d and synthesised using a random-effects model. Transcriptomic analysis was performed on the GSE165407 dataset using DESeq2 in R (RStudio version 1.1.463), with differentially expressed genes cross-referenced against literature-derived biomarkers. Supervised models including a multi-layer perceptron and boosted random forest were applied, with performance evaluated using receiver operating characteristic analysis. Model interpretability was assessed using SHapley Additive exPlanations.Eleven studies met inclusion criteria. Meta-analysis demonstrated low heterogeneity and a pooled effect size of d = 0.74 (95% CI 0.59-0.88), indicating a consistent moderate-to-large biomarker signal across studies. Pathway enrichment revealed convergence on PI3K/AKT/mTOR signalling, immune modulation and epithelial -mesenchymal transition. Transcriptomic profiling demonstrated concordance with literature-derived markers. The random forest model achieved strong classification performance (AUC = 0.91), with high specificity and minimal misclassification. SHapley Additive exPlanations analysis identified both canonical (PI3KCA, RPL39, EXO1) and non-canonical (CD55, LARGE2) contributors to model prediction.This study provides an integrated synthesis linking systematic evidence, transcriptomic validation and interpretable machine learning in MpBC. By reconciling fragmented literature with data-driven modelling, we identify a biologically coherent and clinically tractable molecular signature, offering a foundation for biomarker-driven stratification and translational validation.© the authors; licensee ecancermedicalscience.
Fertility preservation is increasingly offered to young women diagnosed with breast cancer. Although available clinical evidence suggests that controlled ovarian stimulation (COS) does not compromise oncological outcomes, its direct biological effect on tumor tissue remains poorly defined.In this single-center, longitudinal, prospective paired-biopsy study, 21 premenopausal women (age <40 years) with stage II-III breast cancer underwent paired diagnostic and post-COS tumor biopsies at the Breast Cancer Unit, Clínic BCCC (October 2020-September 2024). COS was carried out with recombinant follicle-stimulating hormone plus concurrent letrozole (5 mg/day) using a random-start protocol. After oocyte retrieval, a second core tumor biopsy was obtained within 24 to 48 hours. Immunohistochemistry [estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), Ki-67, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2,) tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs)] and PAM50 gene-expression profiling were carried out. Paired analyses evaluated changes in protein markers, gene-by-gene expression, intrinsic subtype, and risk of recurrence (ROR) score, applying a false discovery rate (FDR) <5% for significance.No significant differences were detected in ER (P = 0.962), PR (P = 0.562), Ki-67 (P = 0.768), or TILs (P = 0.172) after COS. Post-stimulation Ki-67 was not associated with stimulation duration (r = 0.047; P = 0.839), total gonadotropin dose (r = 0.026; P = 0.911), or peak estradiol levels (r = 0.121; P = 0.610). Transcriptomic analysis identified downregulation of 11/72 genes (15.3%), including proliferation-associated genes CDC6, CENPF, EXO1, and RRM2, although none met significance thresholds after FDR correction. PAM50 intrinsic subtype remained stable (luminal A 23.8%, luminal B 28.6%, HER2-enriched 19.0%, basal-like 23.8%), with only two borderline shifts between luminal A and luminal B. Five mild ROR variations were observed (four decreases and one increase), all small in magnitude on the continuous scale.COS with concurrent letrozole was not associated with short-term molecular changes in breast tumor tissue. These findings provide biological reassurance regarding the safety of COS for fertility preservation in young women with breast cancer.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
The XPG endonuclease is crucial for nucleotide excision repair (NER) and other genome maintenance pathways. Precise regulation of XPG recruitment and activity during DNA repair is essential to avoid erroneous DNA incisions and genomic instability. In this study, we employed live-cell imaging to investigate how XPG is regulated during NER, focusing on its dynamic interactions with key factors involved in the pre- and post-incision steps. We found that TFIIH and XPA facilitate recruitment and association of XPG with DNA damage and that XPG localizes separately from TFIIH to UV-induced lesions. Furthermore, our results show that XPG's dissociation from DNA damage is triggered by its own incision activity as well as by that of XPF. Additionally, the exonuclease EXO1 promotes XPG dissociation, likely by processing incised DNA, even in the absence of XPG-mediated incision. Our findings help to better understand the regulatory mechanisms that control XPG activity during NER and provide important insights into the complex dynamics of the repair process.© 2026 Muniesa-Vargas et al.
Fanconi anemia (FA) is characterized by defective DNA repair and chronic p53 activation, predisposing to acute myeloid leukemia through persistent genomic instability. The molecular adaptations enabling cell survival under chronic stress remain poorly understood. This study investigates the role of ZMAT3, a p53 responsive RNA binding protein overexpressed in FA deficient cells, to elucidate its role in cellular adaptation. Using FA patient fibroblasts and Fancg KO mouse models, we launched transcriptomic profiling, lipidomic, and functional analyses. RNA-seq and lipidomic analyses revealed unexpected alterations in sphingolipid metabolism upon ZMAT3 depletion, linked to ceramide accumulation and downregulation of ASAH1 (acid ceramidase). Functionally, ZMAT3 depletion increased DNA damage and enhanced ferroptosis susceptibility, an iron dependent cell death mechanism. Mechanistically, our results showed that ZMAT3 promotes ASAH1 expression, limits ceramide accumulation and protects cells from ferroptosis induced death which could participate to preleukemic clonal evolution and pointing to areas for further exploration in FA-associated malignancies.
Only a minority of patients with advanced gastric cancer (GC) or esophagogastric junction (EGJ) adenocarcinoma derive durable benefit from anti-programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) therapy. However, reliable biomarkers for real-world clinical decision-making remain limited.To identify tumor site-specific genomic alterations associated with outcomes of nivolumab monotherapy in a nationwide real-world cohort.We conducted a retrospective nationwide analysis using Japan's Center for Cancer Genomics and Advanced Therapeutics (C-CAT) registry, including patients with GC and EGJ cancer adenocarcinoma treated with nivolumab monotherapy (July 2019-April 2024). Primary endpoints were time to treatment failure (TTF) and overall survival (OS), defined as the interval from nivolumab initiation to death from any cause; objective response rate (ORR) was secondary. Gene-level alteration indicators were derived from vendor-reported tumor-only panel calls across multiple platforms and filtered for clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP)-like variants (variant allele frequency < 0.05). Multivariable models adjusted for age and sex were fitted separately for GC and EGJ cancer. Variant pathogenicity was based on available panel annotations; therefore, gene-level results should be interpreted as exploratory findings.Among 798 patients with GC and 114 patients with EGJ cancer adenocarcinoma, median TTF/OS/ORR were 3.98 months/20.2 months/11.7% in GC and 4.80 months/24.7 months/14.9% in EGJ cancer adenocarcinoma. In GC, ASXL1 mutation remained independently associated with longer TTF (hazard ratio [HR] 0.59, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.37-0.94) after adjustment and CHIP filtering. For OS, microsatellite instability-high [MSI-H] (HR 0.16, 95% CI 0.04-0.70) and FANCG (HR 0.37, 95% CI 0.16-0.87) were associated with longer OS, whereas CDH1 (HR 1.51, 95% CI 1.10-2.05) was associated with shorter OS. In EGJ cancer adenocarcinoma, NTRK1 mutation correlated with longer TTF (HR 0.31, 95% CI 0.10-0.98) and MUTYH with shorter OS (HR 5.68, 95% CI 2.04-15.81), both exploratory.In this large Japanese real-world cohort, genomic associations with nivolumab outcomes differed by tumor site. In gastric cancer, ASXL1 mutation was associated with prolonged treatment benefit under PD-1 blockade, while CDH1 and FANCG showed exploratory associations with OS. These findings warrant further validation in prospective and platform-controlled analyses.© 2026. The Author(s).
Laryngeal cancer (LC) is a common malignant tumor. Telomere-related genes (T-RGs) play critical roles in cellular senescence and carcinogenesis, but their prognostic relevance in LC remains to be fully elucidated. Therefore, exploring the prognostic genes related to telomeres in LC is important.Public retrospective datasets TCGA-HNSC and T-RGs were used to identify candidate genes by intersecting differentially expressed genes with T-RGs. Key analytical approaches, including machine learning algorithms and univariate Cox regression, were applied to identify prognostic genes and construct a prognostic model. A nomogram was developed to assess the prognostic value for LC based on overall survival. Disease samples were classified into high-risk and low-risk groups, and subsequent analyses included immune infiltration, immune checkpoint expression, and related evaluations. Experimental validation of prognostic genes was performed through RT-qPCR.A total of 314 candidate genes were obtained from 8961 differentially expressed genes. Four key prognostic genes (CHTF18, FANCG, NR5A1, and XRCC3) were identified. The constructed risk score model retained consistent predictive accuracy in both the training and validation datasets, with AUCs ranging from approximately 0.61 to 0.9. Enriched activated immune cells were detected in the low-risk group through immune microenvironment analysis, whereas immune suppression-related features were identified in the high-risk group, accompanied by a reduced tumor mutational burden that was detected. Finally, preliminary validation using RT-qPCR in a limited cohort of clinical samples indicated that the expression trends of three prognostic genes were elevated in LC tissues, showing concordance with the bioinformatic findings.This study identified four key prognostic T-RGs (CHTF18, FANCG, NR5A1, and XRCC3) and constructed a corresponding prognostic model for LC. Our analyses further suggest a potential link between telomere maintenance mechanisms and the tumor immune microenvironment, which may influence patient outcomes.Copyright © 2026 Yesong Cheng et al. International Journal of Genomics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Breast cancer is a public health problem with increasing incidence, prevalence, and mortality worldwide. Germline variants in the DNA repair genes BRCA1/2 are involved in the pathogenesis of hereditary breast/ovarian cancer. However, for many ethnic groups that are isolated geographically worldwide, founder variants of breast cancer still have not been found. In this study, we provide whole exome sequencing data performed in a group of breast/ovarian cancer patients who belong to the Buryats.Our study included 56 Buryat patients with histologically confirmed primary breast/ovarian cancer who completed an anonymous questionnaire about basic information and nationality. Genomic DNA was isolated from peripheral blood leukocytes. Libraries were prepared using a BGI Optimal DNA Library Prep kit (MGI, China). An Agilent SureSelect Human All Exon V6 kit (Agilent, USA) was used for hybridization. High-throughput sequencing was performed on a DNA nanoball sequencing platform DNBSeq-G400 (MGI, China).  Result: In the overall group of patients with signs of hereditary breast/ovarian cancer, likely pathogenic/pathogenic variants were detected in 16% (9/56). We have discovered likely pathogenic/pathogenic variants that can either directly (BRCA2, RAD51D, FANCG) or indirectly (POLR2C, FOXL2, GDF9, CYP21A4) initiate breast/ovarian cancer. For the first time, three rare germinal variants in the BRCA2 gene were detected in a small Buryat ethnic group. Further studies are required to confirm their role in the pathogenesis of breast /ovarian cancer in this ethnic group. We found that the RAD51D gene variant c.757C>T is recurrent and was observed in 4% of Buryat patients with breast/ovarian cancer.For the first time, rare germinal variants in the BRCA2, RAD51D, FANGC, CYP24A1 genes were detected in a small Buryat ethnic group. Our data are consistent with existing data showing that variants in the RAD51D gene may be involved in the pathogenesis of breast/ovarian cancer. We also showed that the Mongolic-speaking Buryat populations exhibited strong genetic resemblance to those of Chinese.
Familial pancreatic cancer (FPC) will be enriched for germline mutations (GLMs), particularly in homologous recombination repair (HRR) genes, but its distinction from sporadic pancreatic cancer (PC) remains unclear.We retrospectively analyzed 111 resected PCs, including 13 patients with FPC (11.8%) and 98 with non-FPC (88.2%). Whole-exome sequencing targeted 151 cancer-related genes, with parallel gene expression profiling. GLMs were assessed by ClinVar and in silico tools. Homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) scores, COSMIC signatures, immune deconvolution, and survival were compared.Patients with FPC and non-FPC were comparable in age, sex, tumor stage, and receipt of adjuvant chemotherapy. ClinVar-annotated GLMs were found in 2/13 patients with FPC (15.4%) and 4/98 patients with non-FPC (4.1%). FPC cases more often carried pancreatitis-associated variants (SPINK1, CFTR), whereas non-FPC included HRR-related variants (PALB2, FANCG). When potentially pathogenic HRR-related variants were considered together, prevalence was similar (23.1% vs. 12.2%, p = 0.380). HRD scores did not differ (median 22 vs. 19, p = 0.591), and high HRD scores (≥ 42) were observed only in two non-FPC cases, including one with PALB2. Differential expression analysis revealed no significant differences after false discovery rate correction. Multivariate analysis indicated that FPC status was not an independent prognostic factor (hazard ratio 1.73, p = 0.084).Transcriptomic profiles and HRD status were similar between patients with FPC and patients with non-FPC. A spectrum of GLMs was observed in both groups, suggesting that hereditary risk variants are not exclusive to FPC and underscoring the importance of germline testing in all patients with PC.© 2025. Society of Surgical Oncology.
Prostate cancer (PCa) germline testing, while gaining momentum, is ancestry restrictive and African exclusive. Through whole genome sequencing for 217 African ancestral cases (186 southern African, 31 Pan representative), we identify 172 potentially pathogenic variants in 78 DNA damage repair or PCa related genes. Prevalence for reported (13/217, 5.99%) and cumulative predicted (24/217, 11.06%) variants of significance (11 genes) falls below that reported for non-Africans. Conversely, BRCA1, HOXB13, CDK12, MLH1, MSH2, and BRIP1 remain unimpacted. Through pathogenic ranking based on variant frequency and functionality, clinical presentation and tumour-matched biallelic inactivation, top-ranked candidates include PREX2, POLE, FAT1, BRCA2, POLQ, LRP1B and ATM. Besides notable impact of DNA polymerases, including POLG, Fanconi anaemia genes include FANCD2, FANCA, FANCG, ERCC4, FANCE and FANCI, while DNA mismatch repair genes MSH3 and PMS1 outranked known namesakes MSH6 and PMS2. This study provides insights into the spectrum of African-relevant potentially pathogenic PCa variants, highlighting much-needed gene candidates for ancestry-inclusive germline testing.© 2025. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 40849815 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 40715753
To ascertain role of the fanconi anemia complementation group G (FANCG) gene in prostate cancer (PCa) and the suitability of the FANCG gene as a prognostic biomarker for PCa.We assessed the expression of FANCG using an analysis of publicly available data sets and cell lines. Physiological functioning of the cells was evaluated through MTT assays and migration assays. Co-expressed genes and enrichment analysis were conducted to probe the biological significance of FANCG in PCa. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) was utilized to detect the expression levels of hub genes (MCM7, MCM5, POLD1, POLA2, LIG1) associated with FANCG.We observed a significant upregulation of FANCG expression in PCa patients and cell lines. Furthermore, immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated markedly higher FANCG protein expression in PCa tissues compared to non-cancerous PCa tissues. Downregulation of FANCG significantly inhibited cell proliferation and migration potential. Evaluation of FANCG-related hub genes (MCM7, MCM5, POLD1, POLA2, and LIG1) revealed their close association with cell cycle-related signaling pathways. Upregulation of FANCG mRNA expression in PCa tissues significantly correlated with high serum PSA levels, advanced pathological stage, high Gleason score, shorter overall survival time, and shorter disease-free survival time.This study suggests that FANCG likely plays a pivotal role in PCa progression. In addition, increased FANCG expression may serve as an indicator of poor disease-free survival and an adverse prognosis for PCa patients.© 2025. The Author(s).
To investigate the gene mutations in tumor tissues of patients with primary gastrointestinal diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (PGI-DLBCL), and analyze its relationship with clinical features and prognosis.A total of 31 newly diagnosed PGI-DLBCL patients treated in the People's Hospital of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region from March 2009 to March 2021 and 81 nodal DLBCL patients matching gender, age, and ethnic group during the same period were collected. The sequencing of patients' tumor tissues were targeted by a panel of 475 lymphoma-related genes. The differences of mutational profiles and biological signaling pathway between PGI-DLBCL and nodal DLBCL were analyzed. The relationship between mutated genes and age, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) level, Lugano stage, IPI score, cell origin typing, overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) of PGI-DLBCL patients were investigated.A total of 50 high frequency mutated genes (number of gene mutations ≥3, mutation frequency ≥10%) were detected in PGI-DLBCL. The mutation rates of GNA13, EZH2, and FBXO11 genes in PGI-DLBCL patients were significantly higher than those in nodal DLBCL patients. BTG2 and CD79B mutations were closely associated with high-risk of IPI scores and the elderly. MYD88 mutations were more easily detected in the elderly patients. And mutations of the P2RY8 and KMT2D gene were related to early stage of the disease and high LDH, respectively. Only GNA13 mutations were detected in GCB subtype, while KMT2C, IRF4 and ID3 mutations were most frequent in non-GCB subtype. Further studies found that patients with CARD11, FANCA and ID3 mutations showed lower 5-year OS rate (all P < 0.05), while ID3 and NFKBIE mutations were associated with poorer PFS (both P < 0.05). The results of multivariate survival analysis suggested that ID3 mutation was an independent adverse prognostic factor for OS (HR=6.213, 95%CI : 1.215-31.770, P =0.028) and PFS (HR=0.060, 95%CI : 0.012-0.307, P =0.001) in PGI-DLBCL patients.PGI-DLBCL has a characteristic gene mutation spectrum, which is different from the molecular mechanism of nodal DLBCL development. ID3 gene mutation is an independent prognostic factor for predicting poor prognosis of PGI-DLBCL.
Hereditary cancer syndromes (HCSs) account for approximately 5-10% of all cancers and are frequently associated with pathogenic variants (PVs) in genes such as BRCA1 and BRCA2. Nevertheless, a substantial proportion of individuals with strong familial cancer aggregation remain genetically unexplained after standard multigene panel testing. Clinical exome sequencing (CES) may overcome this limitation by enabling a broader exploration of cancer susceptibility genes.This retrospective study included 500 high-risk patients who previously tested negative for BRCA1/2 PVs. All samples were analysed using next-generation sequencing technology. Initially, a 60-gene filtered panel recommended by the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) guidelines was applied, followed by a 102-gene filtered panel derived from CES to identify additional PVs or likely PVs (LPVs) beyond current diagnostic panels. Variant classification was performed according to the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics/Association for Molecular Pathology guidelines, incorporating ClinGen and gene-specific expert curation recommendations when available.Within the ASCO panel, PV/LPVs were identified in 9% of patients while 35% carried variants of uncertain significance. CES identified additional PVs/LPVs in 5% of patients in genes not currently included in ASCO-recommended surveillance panels, such as RAD50, BLM, WRN, PMS1 and FANCA. These variants may represent candidate susceptibility loci requiring further clinical and functional validation.CES may provide additional exploratory genomic information in selected high-risk BRCA1/2-negative patients, particularly when standard panel testing is uninformative. Although many of the additional findings identified are not yet clinically actionable, CES represents a valuable resource for future reinterpretation as gene-disease evidence evolves. Overall, our findings support the use of CES as a second-tier exploratory approach in carefully selected high-risk cases, while emphasising the need for cautious interpretation and continued gene-disease curation.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
This phase 2 trial investigated rucaparib (PARP inhibitor) in combination with nivolumab in patients with advanced BTC without progression after 4-6 months of first-line platinum-based chemotherapy.The primary endpoint was 4-month progression-free survival (PFS) rate with null and alternative hypotheses of 63% and 85%. Secondary endpoints included PFS rate in patients with DNA damage repair (DDR) and IDH1 mutations, median PFS and overall survival (OS) from start of study treatment (PFS1, OS1) and first-line chemotherapy (PFS2, OS2), best overall response and safety; NCT03639935.Of 31 patients, 24 (77.6%) had ECOG performance status 1 and 22 (71.0%) intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. Nine (29%) patients had DDR or IDH1 mutations (BRCA2 (n = 3), ATM (2), FANCA (1), IDH1 (3)). 4-month PFS rate was 54.8% (95% confidence intervals (CI), 36.0-72.7) in all patients, and 83.3% and 100% in the DDR and IDH1 cohorts, respectively. Median PFS1 and OS1 were 4.6 months (95% CI, 3.7-6.2) and 15.9 months (95% CI, 9.8-24.1). Median PFS2 and OS2 were 9.9 months (95% CI, 8.3-11.3) and 21.4 months (95% CI, 14.8-26.7). Two (6.4%) patients had partial response. Most common grade ≥ 3 TRAEs included anemia (12.9%), neutropenia (9.7%) and elevated liver enzymes (12.9%).The primary endpoint of PFS rate at 4 months was not met. The PFS rate at 4 months in the DDR and IDH1 cohorts were longer than expected and support further investigation of the addition of PARP inhibitor during maintenance immune-checkpoint inhibition for DDR and IDH1 altered BTC patients.
The carcinogenesis of metastatic prostate cancer results from complex interactions between genetic and environmental factors. The genomic profiles of admixed populations, such as Brazilians, are still poorly explored, offering an opportunity to better understand the contribution of germline and somatic variants in these patients.In this multicenter study, 193 men with metastatic prostate cancer, who underwent matched tumor-normal exome sequencing, were enrolled from all five Brazilian macro-regions.Pathogenic and likely pathogenic germline variants in well-known prostate cancer genes were identified in only 5.7% of the patients, with one case (0.5%) harboring the TP53 p.(Arg337His) Brazilian founder variant. Variants in WNT9B, recently associated with familial prostate cancer, were identified in an additional 2.1% of the patients. In contrast to the germline data, somatic results were obtained in only a subset of patients. Regarding homologous recombination deficiency, 21.8% of patients harbored tumor loss-of-function variants in ATM, CDK12, BRCA2, and FANCA.Even with the low success rate of tumor samples, our data demonstrated that most loss-of-function variants in homologous recombination pathway genes occur as somatic events. Our findings also highlight the distinct germline genomic profile of the Brazilian population and underscore the challenges associated with performing comprehensive analyses on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded samples.© 2026 The Authors.
Loss-of-function genomic alterations in FANCA occur across multiple cancer types, yet no molecularly tailored therapies have successfully exploited this potential vulnerability. Using complementary unbiased approaches, including a genome-wide CRISPR/Cas9 loss-of-function screen and a high-throughput drug screen in isogenic cancer cell-based models, we identified Aurora kinase A (AURKA) as a reproducible synthetic lethal target of FANCA-deficient cancers. Inhibition of AURKA induced chromosomal instability, micronucleation, and differential mitotic dynamics dependent on FANCA status. Mechanistically, FANCA deficiency is associated with an elevated AURKA expression at both the transcriptomic and protein levels, and with an upregulation of mitotic spindle and G2/M checkpoint gene signatures. Analysis of large-scale cancer genomics datasets, including over 650,000 clinically sequenced tumors, confirms that FANCA is the most frequently altered Fanconi anemia pathway gene across cancers, and that Fanconi anemia-defective tumors exhibit an increased tumor mutational burden and genomic instability. Collectively, our findings point to AURKA inhibition as a promising precision treatment strategy in FANCA-deficient cancers and provide a rationale to further explore this strategy in the clinic.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42432871 is a review article
Mucinous cystadenocarcinoma of the breast is rare and has been recently classified as a distinct entity in the fifth edition of the WHO Classification of Tumors. Here, we present a 47-year-old woman with a history of NST carcinoma in her right breast who subsequently developed a lump in the right chest wall close to the breast implant. Immunohistochemical analysis showed negativity for keratin 20 and CDX2, and positivity for mammaglobin, GCDFP15 and TRPS1 with a triple-negative phenotype. The diagnosis of primary mucinous cystadenocarcinoma of the breast was finally established. Next-generation sequencing identified likely pathogenetic mutations specifically in AKT1, EGFR, FANCA, BCL10, CTCF and RUNX1 and RP1-34H18.1::NAV3 gene fusion, making this as the first reported example in the literature harboring an RP1-34H18.1::NAV3 gene fusion identified within a comprehensive RNA-based molecular analysis, representing the 49th reported patient worldwide.
In solid organ transplant recipients receiving long-term immunosuppression, persistent or progressive pancytopenia is often initially attributed to infections or drug toxicity, thereby potentially delaying the recognition of clonal myeloid disorders and germline predispositions. We report the case of a kidney transplant recipient who had predominantly maintained tacrolimus-based immunosuppression and presented with progressive pancytopenia and marked reticulocytopenia. Bone marrow evaluation revealed severe hypocellularity with suppression of granulopoiesis and erythropoiesis, as well as prominent dysmegakaryopoiesis. Flow cytometry showed a small population of immunophenotypically aberrant myeloid blasts, supporting a diagnosis of hypocellular myelodysplastic syndrome. Myeloid gene next-generation sequencing detected a FANCA missense variant (c.3630C > A; p.F1210L; variant allele frequency 47.2%), prompting consideration of germline-associated marrow failure or genetic susceptibility and the need for confirmatory testing in nonhematopoietic tissues. During hospitalization, the patient developed severe opportunistic infections that rapidly progressed to respiratory failure and hemodynamic instability. This case highlights the need for early marrow evaluation and genetic risk stratification in transplant recipients with unexplained cytopenia and for the dynamic balancing of hematopoietic rescue against preservation of allograft function to reduce diagnostic delays and subsequent complications.Copyright © 2026 Shuai Su et al. Case Reports in Hematology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Fanconi anemia (FA) is an inherited bone marrow (BM) failure syndrome for which allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) remains the only curative option. Short tandem repeat (STR) profiling is the reference molecular method for post-transplant chimerism monitoring, but its analytical performance depends on the presence of informative allelic differences between donor and recipient. We report a 3-year-old boy with FA carrying a homozygous FANCA c.2778 + 1G > A variant who underwent allo-HSCT from a human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-matched non-twin sibling donor. Pre-transplant STR analysis using two independent multiplex systems (PowerPlex® 16 and PowerPlex® ESI 16 Fast) revealed near-complete donor-recipient genetic concordance, with only a single informative autosomal locus (D13S317) available for chimerism tracking. Despite this analytical limitation, the patient achieved neutrophil engraftment on day +13 and platelet engraftment with sustained trilineage recovery through day +1376 (approximately 3.75 years post-transplant). Serial post-transplant STR monitoring demonstrated absence of the recipient-specific allele at D13S317, consistent with full donor-derived hematopoiesis and corroborated by independent assay replication and the clinical engraftment course. To our knowledge, this is among the first reported cases of single-locus STR informativity complicating post-HSCT chimerism analysis in a pediatric FA patient from a consanguineous population. In populations with high consanguinity, this case demonstrates a rare but actionable limitation of standard STR-based chimerism monitoring in non-twin siblings. It underscores the value of pre-transplant verification of donor-recipient STR informativity, predefined escalation to high-resolution alternatives such as digital PCR or next-generation sequencing-based chimerism analysis when fewer than two informative loci are identified, and cautious reporting language when molecular informativity is constrained.Copyright © 2026 Filfilan, Elsayid, Almowaled, Sannan, Alzamzami, Alamoudi, Khamis and Monagel.
Synthetic lethality (SL) underlies the success of PARP1 inhibitors (PARPi) in treating homologous recombination (HR)-deficient cancers, yet their broader applicability beyond HR deficiency remains poorly defined. Here, we performed an in vivo CRISPR screen that identifies FANCA deficiency as a driver of tumor progression and PARPi SL, validated across diverse human cancer models. Notably, FANCA loss does not impair HR but instead disrupts FEN1 recruitment to replication forks, leading to defective Okazaki fragment maturation, lagging-strand single-strand DNA gap accumulation, and RPA exhaustion upon PARPi treatment. Additionally, FANCA loss in oncogene-expressing cells promotes transcription-replication conflict (TRC) accumulation selectively on the lagging strand and sensitizes HR-proficient cells to PARPi, a phenotype reversible by RNA polymerase II inhibition or RNase H overexpression. Together, these findings identify FANCA deficiency as a context-specific PARPi vulnerability and establish FANCA as a key suppressor of TRCs required for genomic stability under oncogenic replication stress.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Background Occupational exposure to pesticides has been associated with a range of adverse health outcomes among agricultural workers. Genetic polymorphisms in detoxification and DNA repair pathway genes may influence individual susceptibility to these effects. Grape farmers in southwestern Maharashtra, India, represent a high-risk occupational group facing routine and intensive pesticide exposure throughout the cultivation season, yet molecular epidemiological data from this population remain limited. Methods A cross-sectional exploratory study was conducted among 204 pesticide-exposed grape farmers from Sangli and nearby districts of southwestern Maharashtra, India. Demographic characteristics, exposure patterns, and self-reported symptoms experienced following pesticide exposure were recorded using a structured questionnaire. Oxidative stress markers, including malondialdehyde (MDA) and ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP), were measured as secondary biological indicators. Genotyping of paraoxonase 1 (PON1) polymorphisms (Q192R, L55M), apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease 1 (APE1), and X-ray repair cross-complementing proteins (XRCC1, XRCC2, and XRCC3) was performed using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP). Associations between genotypes, exposure-related parameters, and self-reported symptoms were evaluated using chi-square tests and odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). A p-value ≤ 0.05 was considered statistically significant. Results The majority of participants were male, 177 (86.8%), with most falling in the 31-50 year age group, 110 (53.9%). A total of 170 (83.3%) reported daily exposure of ≥6 hours, and none reported use of personal protective equipment. The mean MDA was 5.24 ± 2.02 µmol/L, and the mean FRAP was 443.39 ± 250.90 µmol/L. Overall, 80 (39%) participants reported at least one symptom following pesticide exposure. Prolonged daily exposure (≥6 hours) was significantly associated with increased odds of symptom experience (OR = 3.5; 95% CI: 1.38-8.9; p = 0.006). PON1 L55M heterozygosity showed a borderline significant association with increased likelihood of self-reported reactions (OR = 1.79; 95% CI: 0.99-3.2; p = 0.049). The XRCC1 rs25487 variant genotype was inversely associated with symptom experience (OR = 0.25; 95% CI: 0.07-0.92; p = 0.034), though this finding requires cautious interpretation given the low variant cell count. Conclusion Prolonged daily pesticide exposure was independently associated with increased likelihood of self-reported health reactions. The borderline association of PON1 L55M and the exploratory finding for XRCC1 rs25487 represent preliminary signals requiring confirmation in larger studies with objective exposure assessment and validated clinical outcomes.Copyright © 2026, Garud et al.
Nowadays, against the backdrop of a global increase in cancer incidence, the search for prognostic markers to assess individual risks is particularly relevant. Early identification of altered DNA methylation patterns may serve as a reliable indicator of malignant transformation and be used for diagnostic purposes. The objective of this study was to assess the methylation level of CpG dinucleotides in the promoter regions of DNA repair genes (AKT1, DDB2, GADD45A, XPC and XRCC3) in the blood of chronically exposed individuals who subsequently developed cancers. The study was conducted in individuals who were affected by chronic low dose-rate exposure in 1950-1960s in the Southern Urals. The main group included exposed individuals in the latent period of cancer development-104 people, the comparison group consisted of exposed individuals without cancers-188 people. The methylation level was assessed in bisulfite-converted DNA samples using methylation-specific high-resolution melting. It was established that in exposed individuals from the main group, there was a statistically significant decrease in the methylation level in the AKT1 and GADD45A gene promoter, relative to the comparison group (4.37 versus 7.23%, p < 0.001 and 10.73 versus 19.58%, p < 0.001, respectively). As for the XRCC3 gene, there was an increase in the methylation level of CpG dinucleotides in the promoter in individuals from the main group relative to the comparison group (5.38 versus 6.18%, p < 0.001). When the prognostic potential of methylation parameters of the AKT1, GADD45A, XRCC3 gene promoters was assessed for the purposes of early diagnosis of cancer development risk, it was found that when these loci were analyzed together, the AUC was 0.89 (95% CI: 0.85-0.93) at p < 0.001.
Hexavalent chromium [Cr(VI)] is a lung carcinogen. Central to its carcinogenic mechanism are Cr(VI)-induced DNA double strand breaks and chromosome instability. While breaks are usually repaired in healthy cells, Cr(VI) inhibits homologous recombination repair by targeting RAD51. RAD51 paralogs (RAD51B, RAD51C, RAD51D, XRCC2, and XRCC3) are responsible for RAD51 loading and the stabilization of nucleoprotein filaments necessary for DNA strand exchange and repair. This study aimed to investigate the effects of Cr(VI) exposure on RAD51 paralogs. WTHBF-6 cells, a human lung cell line, were exposed to various environmentally and occupationally relevant concentrations of zinc chromate for acute (24 h) and prolonged (120 h) exposure times. After exposure to Cr(VI), we collected RNA for sequencing and assessed the ability of DNA repair proteins to form foci using immunofluorescence. Protein levels were measured with western blotting, RNA-Seq was validated with RT-qPCR, and protein-protein interactions were assessed with the Proximity Ligation Assay (PLA) assay. Cr(VI) transcriptionally repressed all RAD51 paralogs. Further functional analyses showed that Cr(VI) inhibited the foci formation of RAD51D after acute and prolonged exposures and of XRCC2 and XRCC3 after prolonged exposure. Cr(VI) also inhibited overall RAD51D protein expression, as well as its interaction with RAD51. These findings suggest that Cr(VI) inhibits all RAD51 paralogs, but RAD51D might be an early target of Cr(VI), leading to the loss of RAD51 filament formation and function and the overall inhibition of homologous recombination repair.
Genetic susceptibility is believed to contribute to leukemia development. This study aimed to systematically evaluate the association between DNA repair gene polymorphisms, particularly xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) and excision repair cross-complementing (XRCC) genes, and leukemia risk.A comprehensive search of PubMed, Web of Science, Scopus, and Cochrane Library was conducted until December 3, 2025, concerning the association between DNA repair gene polymorphisms and leukemia risk. Gene expressions were performed in Leukemia DB, GEPIA2, and BloodSpot datasets.Fifty-four studies were included in the meta-analysis. No significant associations were observed for ERCC1 C118T or XPD Asp312Asn across genetic models, whereas ERCC1 8092C>A showed significant associations in homozygous and dominant models. The XPD Lys751Gln polymorphism demonstrated significant associations across all models. Significant associations were identified for XPC Lys939Gln in allelic, homozygous, and recessive models and for XPF Arg415Gln in the heterozygous model. XPG 3507G>C showed no significant association. XRCC1 Arg194Trp, XRCC1 Arg399Gln, and XRCC3 Thr241Met polymorphisms were significantly associated with leukemia risk, while XRCC1 Arg280His was not. Gene expression analyses revealed subtype-specific alterations in DNA repair genes across leukemia datasets.Several DNA repair polymorphisms, including XPD Lys751Gln, XPC Lys939Gln, XRCC1 Arg194Trp, XRCC1 Arg399Gln, and XRCC3 Thr241Met, are associated with increased leukemia susceptibility. Differential expression patterns of DNA repair genes across leukemia subtypes suggest functional heterogeneity and highlight their potential relevance in risk stratification and biomarker development.Copyright © 2026 Ye, Fang and Jin.
Homologous recombination (HR) repairs DNA double-strand breaks and stabilizes stressed replication forks, and HR deficiency promotes genome instability and cancer. HR requires assembly of RAD51 nucleoprotein filaments on single-stranded DNA (ssDNA), a process regulated by the human RAD51 paralogs RAD51C, XRCC3, RAD51D and XRCC2. Here, using cryo-electron microscopy, we find that the RAD51-XRCC3-RAD51C complex (RAD51-X3C) assembles into an octamer in which XRCC3 engages the RAD51 DNA-binding surface and RAD51 subunits adopt a misaligned configuration incompatible with filament formation. These features define an autoinhibited RAD51-X3C state that limits nonproductive RAD51 binding to double-stranded DNA or RNA-DNA hybrids while preserving RAD51 availability for ssDNA-dependent strand exchange. We further show that the RAD51D-XRCC2 paralog complex remodels RAD51-X3C into a pentameric RAD51-X3CDX2 assembly by engaging the exposed RAD51C surface and disrupting contacts that stabilize the octamer. This remodeling exposes the RAD51 DNA-binding interface, enhances RAD51-ssDNA filament assembly, and promotes strand exchange on RPA-coated ssDNA, and yields a filament-compatible paralog assembly that integrates into ssDNA-bound RAD51 filaments. Together, these findings establish paralog exchange as a mechanism that converts an autoinhibited RAD51-X3C octamer into an activated RAD51-X3CDX2 pentamer to regulate RAD51 filament formation during HR and replication fork preservation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and cardiovascular diseases (CVDs), including hypertension (HTN), coronary heart disease (CHD), and heart failure (HF), are major global health burdens. The shared genetic mechanisms underlying the high comorbidity between COPD and CVDs remain unclear.We integrated large-scale GWAS summary statistics for COPD and three major CVDs (HTN, CHD, HF). Several analytic approaches were applied, including linkage disequilibrium score regression (LDSC), high-definition likelihood (HDL), multi-marker analysis of genomic annotation (MAGMA), pleiotropic analysis under composite null hypothesis (PLACO), and summary-data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR). These methods were used to evaluate genetic correlations, identify shared risk loci, and prioritize potential therapeutic targets.LDSC and HDL analyses revealed significant positive genetic correlations between COPD and the three CVDs (rg = 0.23-0.38, P < 0.05). MAGMA enrichment analysis identified 277 unique pleiotropic genes enriched in pathways such as Notch signaling and nicotinic acetylcholine receptor signaling. Tissue-specific analyses indicated that shared genetic signals were enriched not only in the lung and heart but also in neuroendocrine-related tissues such as the cerebellum and pituitary, suggesting the involvement of a potential "lung-heart-brain" multi-organ axis. PLACO identified 94 pleiotropic SNPs, with consistent colocalization signals at 15q25.1 (CHRNA3/5, IREB2) and 4q22 (SOX7). SMR analysis further prioritized 626 candidate genes, including ZNF652, XRCC3, SLC22A5, and SOX7, which may serve as potential therapeutic targets.This study provides genetic evidence for shared mechanisms linking COPD with HTN, CHD, and HF. It highlights the roles of neurotransmitter receptors, iron metabolism, vascular development, and energy metabolism in COPD-CVD comorbidity. These findings offer insights into precision prevention and therapeutic strategies targeting COPD-CVD comorbidity.© 2026 Chen et al.
The repair of DNA double-strand breaks by homologous recombination is essential for genomic integrity, and its dysregulation is a hallmark of cancer1. Central to homologous recombination is the RAD51 recombinase, whose assembly into a nucleoprotein filament is governed by five RAD51 paralogues (RAD51B, RAD51C, RAD51D, XRCC2 and XRCC3)2. Mutations in any of these proteins predispose individuals to multiple cancers or genetic disorders3-6. These paralogues are thought to form two functionally separate complexes RAD51B-RAD51C-RAD51D-XRCC2 (BCDX2) and RAD51C-XRCC3 (CX3), that act independently at different stages of homologous recombination7-11. Here we demonstrate that all five paralogues can assemble into a single, ATP-dependent BCDX2-CX3-RAD51 supercomplex. The architecture of this assembly bound to single-stranded DNA reveals a contiguous filament where the CX3 module stacks atop BCDX2, creating a protofilament template for RAD51 filament formation. We further identify a novel, RAD51B-independent DX2-CX3 complex (RAD51D-XRCC2-RAD51C-XRCC3) functioning as a stable RAD51 anchor on single-stranded DNA, and we capture it in multiple states, including capping RAD51 filament segment. These distinct assemblies are differentially regulated by ATPase activity, defining a dynamic BCDX2-CX3 'loader' and a stable DX2-CX3 'anchor' that provide functional modularity to the homologous recombination machinery. This work provides a unifying mechanism for human RAD51 paralogue function and delivers an atomic blueprint for interpreting disease-causing mutations.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Fanconi anemia (FA) is characterized by bone marrow failure, congenital abnormalities, and cancer predisposition. Mutations in RAD51 paralogs have been identified in FA-like disorders and cancers. Although the role of RAD51 paralogs is well established in homologous recombination (HR)-mediated DNA repair, little is known about their role during replication stress responses. Here, we report that the RAD51C-XRCC3 (CX3) complex of RAD51 paralogs participates in the FA pathway of R-loop tolerance mechanism. CX3 complex suppresses R-loops, transcription-replication collisions (TRCs), and associated genome instability under physiological and replication stress conditions. Mechanistically, the CX3 complex physically interacts with FANCM and facilitates its recruitment to the R-loop sites to promote its resolution. Notably, cells expressing the RAD51C R258H pathological mutant exhibit defective interaction with FANCM and display inefficient R-loop processing. The CX3 complex-mediated R-loop resolution is independent of its fork maintenance function. Collectively, we demonstrate a previously unidentified role of the CX3 complex in preventing R-loop-induced genome instability by regulating FANCM-mediated R-loop resolution.
Double-strand break (DSB) repair occurs through non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) or homologous recombination (HR). To identify non-canonical factors that influence DSB repair outcomes, we parsed data from pooled genetic screens. Through this approach, we identified the splicing factor SFPQ, which has been previously reported to associate with DSBs and promote repair. Here, we show that SFPQ depletion alters DSB repair via HR. However, in contrast to other published work, we find that SFPQ does not localize to DSBs but instead stabilizes the expression of RAD51 and its paralogs independently of p53 activation or DNA damage. Our findings suggest that SFPQ contributes to constitutive DSB repair by maintaining RAD51 paralog mRNA stability rather than through direct interaction with DSBs or RAD51 proteins. Ultimately, our results highlight indirect mechanisms by which RNA-binding proteins can influence genome stability.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
To investigate how different combinations of base monomers, including diurethane dimethacrylate (DUDMA) and bisphenol A-glycidyl methacrylate (Bis-GMA), and diluent monomers, including trimethylolpropane trimethacrylate (TMPTMA) and triethylene glycol dimethacrylate (TEGDMA), as well as their mixing ratios, influence light attenuation behavior, degree of conversion (DC), mechanical properties, and cell viability in dental resins fabricated by layer-wise additive manufacturing.Binary systems were formulated at 5:5 and 7:3 wt ratios. Their optical behavior was characterized using Jacob's working curve, while the degree of conversion (DC) was quantified via ATR-FTIR. Mechanical properties and biocompatibility were evaluated using three-point bending tests, Vickers hardness and CCK-8 assays with human gingival fibroblasts, respectively.All formulations exhibited linear working curve behavior. TEGDMA-containing systems showed significantly higher DC and flexural strength, whereas TMPTMA-containing systems demonstrated greater flexural modulus and Vickers hardness. Mixing ratio effects were system-dependent, with no direct correlation between curing behavior, DC, or mechanical properties. All formulations showed no cytotoxicity in human gingival fibroblasts.This study provides a comprehensive understanding of how the interplay between base monomers (DUDMA, Bis-GMA) and diluents (TMPTMA, TEGDMA) dictates the performance of 3D-printed unfilled dental resins. By integrating Jacob's working curve analysis with mechanical and biological evaluations, we identified optimal formulations that balance high degree of conversion with clinical-level biocompatibility. These findings offer a precise chemical roadmap for developing next-generation additive manufacturing resins with tailored mechanical properties for restorative dentistry.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection triggers oxidative stress and persistent inflammatory responses, both of which lead to cellular DNA damage while impairing DNA repair. This constitutes a major factor in exacerbating inflammation and subsequently inducing precancerous lesions, with effective interventions still lacking. In our study, we found that bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell-conditioned medium (BMMSC-CM) could alleviate H. pylori-induced DNA damage in gastric mucosal epithelial cells and further corroborated in vivo studies through immunofluorescence staining and flow cytometry. Screening via solid-phase antibody arrays and transcriptome sequencing revealed that BMMSC up-regulated the expression of CTCF in gastric mucosal epithelial cells by secreting the glycoprotein CHI3L1, thereby enhancing Rad51 expression and promoting cellular DNA repair. Meanwhile, untargeted metabolomics and lipidomics further demonstrated that CTCF participated in the DNA repair process through CPT1A-mediated fatty acid oxidation. This study elucidated the role and application value of BMMSC-derived CHI3L1 in treating H. pylori-induced gastric mucosal damage. By exploring the specific mechanism through the regulation of fatty acid oxidation on DNA repair, this study provided new insights and potential therapeutic targets for treating H. pylori infection-related diseases.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Sulfidation modification creates a redox-noninnocent sulfur interface on cobalt ferrite/red mud (CoFe2O4/RM, and its sulfidated form is denoted as S-CoFe2O4/RM), enabling both fast and selective peracetic acid (PAA) activation for sulfamethazine (SMT) degradation. The S-CoFe2O4/RM/PAA system removes 95.1 % of SMT within 5 min, with a rate constant 12.77 times that of unmodified CoFe2O4/RM. Using X‑ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES), time-resolved X‑ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), operando attenuated total reflectance Fourier‑transform infrared spectroscopy (ATR-FTIR), and density functional theory (DFT) calculations, we reveal that surface sulfur acts as a dynamic interfacial cofactor. First, low-valence sulfur species (S2-, SO32-) can serve as electron donors that continuously regenerate Co2+/Fe2+, sustaining rapid metal redox cycling. Second, sulfur alters the adsorption configuration of PAA and steers asymmetric O-O bond cleavage, switching the dominant reactive oxygen species from non-selective •OH to highly selective R-O• and 1O2. Nine degradation intermediates are identified, with pathways including hydroxylation, S-N bond cleavage, and N-centered radical coupling. Most intermediates are predicted to exhibit lower toxicity than SMT. The system shows strong resistance to anions and humic substances, excellent recyclability, and stable performance in real water matrices. This work establishes sulfur as a redox-noninnocent interfacial cofactor that decouples activation rate from indiscriminate radical chemistry, offering a new design principle for selective PAA activation in antibiotic wastewater treatment.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42561957 is a review article
While carboplatin remains a cornerstone chemotherapeutic agent for ovarian carcinoma, the emergence of resistance constitutes a major contributor to therapeutic failure and compromised clinical outcomes. This study elucidates molecular mechanisms driving carboplatin resistance and identifies novel therapeutic targets for carboplatin-refractory malignancies through characterization of a long non-coding RNA (lncRNA)-encoded micropeptide.Ribosome profiling analysis delineated translational alterations induced by carboplatin in ovarian cancer models. Mechanistic validation was achieved through the integration of gain- and loss-of-function methodologies, nuclear localization assays, and quantitative assessment of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage through enumeration of gamma-H2AX (phosphorylated histone H2AX at serine 139) foci, supplemented by alkaline comet analysis. The therapeutic significance was corroborated using subcutaneous xenograft models derived from patient-derived ovarian cancer cells.The micropeptide carboplatin-induced upregulation factor (CARUF), derived from lncRNA LOC101926915, was markedly upregulated in response to carboplatin treatment, with ribosome profiling showing significant enrichment of ribosome-associated LOC101926915 transcripts (adjusted P < 0.01 and log2FC >1). In clinical specimens, elevated CARUF expression was positively correlated with platinum resistance (r = 0.425, P < 0.001). Functional analyses showed that CARUF overexpression promoted DNA damage repair (P < 0.001) and enhanced carboplatin resistance both in vitro and in vivo (P < 0.001). In contrast, CARUF inhibition impaired DNA damage repair (P < 0.001) and restored carboplatin sensitivity (P < 0.001), resulting in reduced cell viability in vitro (P < 0.001) and suppressed tumor growth in vivo (P < 0.001). Mechanistically, carboplatin-induced DNA lesions activated ataxia-telangiectasia mutated and Rad3-related (ATR) kinase, which phosphorylated CARUF, facilitated its localization to DNA lesion sites, and enhanced DNA repair capacity.Our findings identify CARUF as a critical mediator of aberrant DNA damage response signaling in carboplatin-resistant ovarian cancer, indicating its potential as a druggable target for overcoming carboplatin resistance.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Scientific Scholar.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558868 is a review article
Automated surveillance systems such as the electronic automatic notification system (EANS) have been introduced to improve recognition of adverse transfusion reactions (ATRs), but their long-term sustainability and operational limitations remain incompletely defined.We conducted a 6-year retrospective study (2019-2025) evaluating EANS performance at a tertiary hospital, analyzing quarterly suspected ATR (sATR) and confirmed ATR detection rates. Detection sources, positive predictive value (PPV), and reporting pathways were evaluated. During a focused 87-day period, all alerts were reviewed to assess signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and vital sign-specific alert patterns.Following implementation, sATR and ATR detection rates peaked at 1.26% and 0.53%, but gradually declined over time, with further reductions during periods of healthcare system strain. EANS-generated alerts accounted for 94.4% of sATR reports (PPV 58.1%), whereas clinician-initiated reports demonstrated higher specificity (PPV 92.5%). In the focused analysis, only 1.5% of alerts were reported (SNR 1:78, one notification per five units transfused), yet 86.2% of reported alerts were confirmed ATRs after clinical triage. Nearly two-thirds of alerts were attributable to multiple vital sign entries or documentation errors. Body temperature-containing and multi-parameter alerts showed markedly higher rates of potential missed ATR than isolated triggers.Automated vital sign-based surveillance expands hemovigilance coverage but generates considerable alert burden potentially placing the system at risk of reduced reporting performance during prolonged use and periods of healthcare system strain. Continuous system optimization and vital sign specific alert prioritization strategies may be necessary to improve performance of automated hemovigilance systems.© 2026 The Author(s). Transfusion published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of AABB.
Slc26a9 is a member of the Slc26a family that is highly expressed in the stomach and is a key regulator for maintaining gastric mucosal homeostasis. Slc26a9 deletion in mice impairs the gastric mucosal barrier. However, the role of Slc26a9 in PHG has never been investigated.Slc26a9 expression was analyzed in human PHG and control gastric tissues. A PVL-induced PHG model was established in Slc26a9fl/fl and parietal cell-specific Slc26a9 knockout mice to evaluate mucosal injury, ER stress, and apoptosis. Adenoviral overexpression in vivo and gene silencing in GES-1 cells were used to explore the underlying mechanisms.In this study, the Human PHG samples showed both significantly reduced Slc26a9 mRNA and protein expression when compared to healthy controls. Parietal cell-specific Slc26a9 gene deletion aggravates gastric mucosal injury, gastric mucosal epithelial apoptosis, mitochondria apoptotic, and ER stress in PHG. Restoration of Slc26a9 expression in the gastric mucosa of mice using an adenovirus overexpressing Slc26a9 reversed the aggravated endoplasmic reticulum stress, mitochondrial apoptosis, epithelial apoptosis, and gastric mucosal injury caused by Slc26a9 deficiency. In addition, downregulation of Slc26a9 expression induced apoptosis in GES-1 cells by activating the endoplasmic reticulum stress-mitochondrial apoptosis pathway. Mechanistically, Slc26a9 may inhibit endoplasmic reticulum stress by interacting with valosin-containing protein (VCP).Slc26a9 protects the mucosal defense barrier against PHG by attenuating ER stress-mediated mitochondria-dependent apoptotic signaling. Slc26a9 may be a novel therapeutic target for PHG.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Chitin is one of the most abundant biopolymers and has attracted growing interest due to its biodegradability, renewability, and expanding applications. However, conventional chitin extraction methods rely heavily on harsh chemicals and energy-intensive processes. Herein, a protocol for isolating chitin from spider crab shells using a sequential Deep Eutectic Solvent optimization strategy is established. The experimental process systematically screened solvent parameters, first identifying systems outperformed with acidic, neutral and basic formulations. Among the acidic candidates, choline chloride:lactic acid (ChCl:LA) was selected for its superior efficiency and sustainability profile. Subsequent optimization of the solid-to-liquid ratio revealed that 1:15 is sufficient to maximize mass transfer, minimizing solvent usage. Then, temperature and time profiling defined two distinct operating windows that achieved comparable high removal efficiencies: a rapid higher-temperature and a lower-temperature route. Physicochemical characterization via ATR-FTIR, XRD, and solid-state 13C CP/MAS NMR was employed to validate the identity of the isolated material. Notably, NMR analysis provided definitive evidence of the α-chitin polymorph and confirmed the preservation of a fully acetylated backbone without undesirable deacetylation, corroborating the native structure with high crystallinity. Specific energy monitoring revealed a trade-off: the 80 °C process is efficient when time saving is desired, whereas the 30 °C process is efficient when energy saving is prioritized, consuming 25% less energy, quantitatively challenging the assumption that faster processing yields the lowest energy footprint. These findings offer a scalable, low-carbon footprint solution that allows for strategic selection between maximum throughput and minimum energy consumption.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The essential kinase ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3-related (ATR) monitors the replicative (S) phase of the cell cycle to ensure faithful propagation of genetic material. While much is known about the mechanisms governing ATR activity at replication forks, how its effector checkpoint kinase 1 (CHK1) is regulated to create a localized hub of CHK1 activity at sites of replication remains poorly understood. Here, we report that replication termination factor 2 (RTF2), an essential replisome-associated protein, is necessary for maintaining CHK1 signaling at replication forks. RTF2 interacts with CHK1 and functions alongside the core replicative helicase complex-interacting protein CLASPIN to tether CHK1 to sites of DNA replication, controlling replication rates and preventing premature mitotic entry. These findings uncover how RTF2 and CLASPIN poise CHK1 at replication forks to facilitate its activation by ATR, creating fork-localized CHK1 activity that fuels unperturbed S-phase progression and promotes genome stability by maintaining the intrinsic S-G2 checkpoint.
Alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT) is a telomerase-independent telomere maintenance mechanism active in a subset of aggressive cancers. Targeting ALT remains a therapeutic challenge due to its complexity and lack of clinically specific inhibitors. Here, we report that the natural compound Withaferin A (Wi-A) selectively impairs ALT cancer cell viability by disrupting Rad51-dependent homologous recombination (HR), a critical pathway for resolving telomeric replication stress and DNA damage in ALT cells. Comparative analysis using isogenic ALT and telomerase-positive cells revealed that Wi-A selectively downregulates PI3K/AKT signaling and induces replication stress, telomeric DNA damage, and DNA repair deficiency in ALT cells. Mechanistically, Wi-A destabilizes the Rad51 nucleoprotein filament and promotes Rad51 degradation via a RFWD3-dependent mechanism localized within ALT-associated PML bodies (APBs). Depletion of either PML or RFWD3 rescues Rad51 stability and reduces sensitivity of ALT cells to Wi-A. Together, these findings uncover a novel mechanism by which Wi-A selectively targets ALT cells through Rad51 destabilization within APBs, highlighting its potential to exploit ALT-specific vulnerabilities in telomere maintenance and DNA repair for therapeutic development.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42415356
Aplastic anemia is a rare hematologic disorder characterized by bone marrow hypoplasia and peripheral pancytopenia. While most pediatric cases are acquired, inherited bone marrow failure syndromes (IBMFS) are important differential diagnoses. ERCC6L2-associated IBMFS is a newly recognized and rare condition with significant implications for diagnosis and long-term care in hematology.A case report of a 3-year-old Ethiopian girl presenting with dry cough, low-grade fever, poor appetite, and spontaneous gum bleeding. Examination revealed microcephaly, café-au-lait spots, and dysmorphic facial features. Laboratory evaluation revealed pancytopenia. Bone marrow biopsy revealed hypocellularity without blasts. Whole-exome sequencing revealed compound heterozygous variants in the ERCC6L2 gene, confirming a diagnosis of ERCC6L2-related IBMFS. The patient is currently scheduled for allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.This case report highlights the importance of considering rare genetic causes, such as ERCC6L2 mutations, in pediatric aplastic anemia patients with dysmorphic features. Early diagnosis through genetic testing allows for definitive management and surveillance of hematologic malignancies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Rising seawater temperatures driven by global warming have led to summer mass mortality events that pose significant challenges for the oyster industry. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) serves as a key transcriptional regulator of lipid metabolism and plays an essential role in thermal adaptation. However, the upstream regulatory mechanisms of PPAR remain poorly understood in marine organisms. In this study, we identified two PPAR subtypes (PPARα and PPARβ/δ) in oysters and compared transcriptomic data in different tissues and under various environmental stressors, with PPARα exhibiting higher expression levels and responsiveness to environmental stresses. We observed significantly higher PPARα gene expression levels and promoter activity in the relatively cold-tolerant Crassostrea gigas compared to C. angulata. The low expression of the inhibitory transcription factor CTNNB1 in C. gigas may contribute to higher gene expression of PPARα. Additionally, the expression genome-wide association study (eGWAS) identified 9 significant SNPs and 124 candidate regulatory genes associated with PPARα expression, including ubiquitination, phosphorylation, signaling pathways, lipid metabolism, and glucose metabolism. We provided the first experimental validation of the PPARα ubiquitination-degradation pathway in marine organisms via Co-IP, which was mediated by the E3 ligase RFWD3. The protein kinase SNF1 and signaling-related proteins PIKA and KCNK2 indirectly modulated PPARα downstream pathway activation to varying degrees. This study presents the first systematic investigation of PPARα expression regulation in marine organisms. It identifies key molecular regulators and provides novel insights into lipid metabolic regulation and molecular targets for genetic improvement of heat tolerance in oysters under global warming.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
ERCC6L2 disease (ED) is a rare bone marrow failure syndrome caused by biallelic germline mutations in ERCC6L2. ED leads to the accumulation of somatic TP53 mutations, myelodysplastic syndrome, and acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with erythroid predominance and poor prognosis. While ERCC6L2 is implicated in DNA replication and repair, the transcriptomic events underlying delayed erythropoiesis and leukemic progression remain largely undefined. To delineate these processes, we leverage bulk and single-cell transcriptomics of patient fibroblasts, bone marrow, and peripheral blood across disease stages, including single-cell TP53 genotyping. We identify disease-associated erythroid dysregulation and ferroptotic stress emerging prior to TP53 mutation, highlighting an early vulnerability in ED leukemogenesis. We compare ED to Shwachman-Diamond syndrome (SDS) to reveal shared and disease-specific transcriptional programs. TP53 mutations in ED and SDS arise in hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells but do not independently drive changes in cell cycle or stress pathways during erythropoiesis, despite harboring distinct germline defects. Both diseases converge in late erythropoiesis into a stress state characterized by ferroptotic signaling, G1 arrest, and BCL2L1 upregulation. As a disease-specific pattern, ED shows aberrant erythroid priming with TP53-driven differentiation arrest shaping progression toward erythroid leukemia. Thereby, we establish the first patient-level single-cell map of ED and provide a curated resource for future work on ED, SDS, and TP53-driven leukemogenesis. Overall, our findings in pre-malignant ED offer a window into early alterations leading to high-risk leukemia.© 2026 The Author(s). HemaSphere published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of European Hematology Association.
Upstream regulators of the homologous recombination (HR) repair pathway are promising targets for overcoming temozolomide (TMZ) resistance. We investigated whether pharmacologic inhibition of Retinoblastoma Binding Protein 4 (RBBP4)/p300-mediated HR activity by CCS1477 or NEO2734 sensitizes glioblastoma (GBM) to TMZ.Lentiviral-mediated shRNA was used to silence RBBP4 and EP300 (p300). A fluorescence-based multiplex flow-cytometric host cell reactivation assay was used to measure DNA repair activity, while TMZ-induced double-strand breaks (DSBs) were assessed using a comet assay and γ-H2AX foci formation. Cytotoxicity was monitored using an Incucyte device, and survival analysis was performed to evaluate efficacy in orthotopic tumor models. Drug distribution was assessed using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and acetylation of lysine 27 of histone H3 (H3K27Ac) immunofluorescence for target inhibition. Promoter occupancy was determined using chromatin immunoprecipitation.GBM patient-derived xenograft tumors with high RBBP4 expression showed elevated levels of 6 HR genes (RAD51, RAD50, BRCA1, BARD1, BRIP1, and FIGNL1), with RAD51 and BRIP1 correlating strongly with RBBP4 and p300. Silencing RBBP4 or p300 decreased HR and microhomologous-mediated end joining (MMEJ) activity and delayed repair of TMZ-induced DSBs. CCS1477 and NEO2734 suppressed RAD51 and MYC in a concentration-dependent manner, prolonged γ-H2AX foci, and enhanced TMZ sensitivity. Both compounds inhibited H3K27Ac and were detectable in orthotopic tumors by LC-MS/MS and significantly extended survival alone and in combination with TMZ.These findings suggest that the RBBP4/p300-axis is a key regulator of HR-mediated repair of TMZ-induced DSBs, and inhibition by either CCS1477 or NEO2734 may be beneficial as monotherapy, but further studies are needed to determine the benefit of combining these agents with TMZ.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press, the Society for Neuro-Oncology and the European Association of Neuro-Oncology.
We present two illustrative cases highlighting diagnostic, surveillance and management complexities of TP53 pathogenic variants (PVs). Case 1 describes a 24-year-old female with early-onset breast cancer and a somatic mosaic TP53 PV with a variant allele frequency of 19% in blood, initially missed by panel sequencing. Case 2 concerns a 59-year-old female with multiple primary tumours and two identical TP53 variants detected in two different tissues which initially suggested somatic mosaicism but were consistent with a myelodysplastic syndrome-related clone secondary to homozygous germline ERCC6L2-associated bone marrow failure. These cases highlight the importance of accurately interpreting TP53 variants for correct clinical decision-making. Contextual factors such as age, phenotype, family history and tissue testing must guide diagnosis, treatment and surveillance.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41954962
The makorin (MKRN) family of ubiquitin ligases regulates diverse biological processes, including reproduction, neurogenesis, and immune function. The first identified member, MKRN3, is an inhibitor of sexual development that is the site of inherited mutations linked to central precocious puberty (CPP). All makorin proteins share a distinctive cysteine/histidine-rich (CH) domain. In MKRN3, the CH domain lies between the second C3H zinc finger and the RING domain. Using CD and NMR spectroscopy, we show that the CH domain folds upon coordination of a single Zn2+ ion with picomolar affinity. Spectroscopic and NMR pH-titration analyses identify a CCHC-type metal-binding site, typical of zinc fingers with protein-interaction functions. The NMR structure reveals the CH-domain adopts a canonical ββα zinc finger fold, despite atypical ligand spacing and the absence of conserved hydrophobic residues that usually stabilize this type of structure. Thermal denaturation monitored by multiple spectroscopic probes indicates sequential unfolding, with side-chain packing becoming disordered near 33 °C but zinc-stabilized secondary structure persisting to ∼63 °C, consistent with a molten-globule conformation at high temperature. Guided by sequence homology to a zinc finger in FAAP20 and Alpha Fold modeling, NMR chemical shift perturbation studies were used to demonstrate the CH-domain binds ubiquitin. In analogous E3-ubiquitin ligases like TRAF6 that contain RING and CCHC-type zinc fingers, the CCHC-type zinc finger interacts with ubiquitin to modulate ligase activity.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The activating signal co-integrator 1 complex subunit 3 (ASCC3) is a multifunctional protein. However, little is known about its role in replication stress. Here, we report that ASCC3 is recruited to stalled forks by its binding partner ASCC2, whose recruitment to stalled forks requires both its ubiquitin binding activity and polyubiquitylation of PCNA at K164 catalyzed by SHPRH, HLTF, and RFWD3. Upon replication stress, ASCC3 unwinds DNA, and this unwinding activity is required for SMARCAL1 recruitment, restrained fork progression, and fork degradation in BRCA1/BRCA2-deficient cells. ASCC3 unwinds DNA to remodel gap-containing fork substrates in vitro, suggesting that ASCC3 promotes fork reversal. In addition, ASCC3 stimulates RPA accumulation on ssDNA upon replication stress, promoting efficient ATR activation. Furthermore, ASCC3 antagonizes RAD51-mediated recombination and prevents the accumulation of chromosome breaks/gaps and mis-segregation upon replication stress. Our work underscores a critical role of ASCC3 in controlling multiple replication stress responses to maintain genomic stability.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the global health issues. Current treatments still present major challenges such as off-target cytotoxicity and the emergence of drug resistance, the development of potent and innovative therapeutics is urgently needed. Here, we synthesized copper‑aluminum (CuAl) layered double hydroxides (LDH) using a hydrothermal method and loaded them with the 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) (CuAl-5FU) to improve their anticancer efficacy. The LDHs were 2D-sheeted and rosette-like in shape. The hydrodynamic diameter of CuAl and CuAl-5FU was 568 and 661 nm, respectively. Zeta potential values of CuAl-5FU ranged from +31.39 to +34.93 mV across pH 3 to 9, indicating good colloidal stability. The drug loading and encapsulation efficiency were 18.19% and 36.37%, respectively. Dose-dependent cytotoxicity was seen in HCT-116 and HT-29 CRC cells. Comparatively, CuAl-5FU LDH exhibited greater anticancer activity compared to LDH alone and free 5-FU drug in both monolayer and tumor spheroid models. Mechanistic studies revealed that CuAl-5FU significantly induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, mitochondrial membrane depolarization, and promoted apoptosis by upregulating the pro-apoptotic Bax protein and PARP cleavage in both CRC cells. Transcriptomic analysis and qPCR validation revealed the downregulation of oncogenic MAPK signaling and modulation of key genes related to proliferation (JUN, DUSP1, FOSB, EGR1, and FOS), apoptosis (TP53I3, ZMAT3, GADD45A, BBC3, MDM2, TNFRSF10B, E2F1, and ORC1), and cell cycle arrest (CDKN1A and CDC25A). Notably, we identified altered expression of several chemoresistance-related genes (AVPI1, HROB, DDIAS, PTGES, and LAMA3), suggesting the early emergence of adaptive responses in CRC cells. To validate this observation, CuAl-5FU-resistant HCT-116 G3 and HT-29 G2 cell lines were established and their chemoresistant phenotypes were characterized. Indeed, the chemoresistance-associated genes were upregulated, together with significantly higher IC50 values and clonogenic survival fractions than their respective parental cells. Collectively, these findings suggest that CuAl-5FU improves anticancer activity in CRC cells by modulating multiple genes involved in ROS production, mitochondrial membrane depolarization, apoptosis, and cell cycle regulation. Nevertheless, chemoresistance developed rapidly following repeated treatment, highlighting a potential limitation of this therapeutic approach. Overall, this study provides a new potential strategy for CRC treatment while emphasizing the importance of elucidating the molecular mechanisms underlying acquired chemoresistance. Future studies should also optimize the physicochemical properties of the CuAl-5FU LDH, particularly the large particle size (∼661 nm) by optimizing the hydrothermal synthesis conditions and incorporating surface modifications to further improve the tumor penetration and drug delivery.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42439634 is a review article
Nanoparticles (NPs) synthesized via biological routes have gained significant attention due to their eco-friendly production and diverse biological applications. However, relatively few studies have explored the use of thermophilic bacteria for nanoparticle synthesis, despite their potential advantages in stability and enzyme robustness under extreme conditions. In particular, thermophilic microorganisms remain under explored for the extracellular biosynthesis of metal nanoparticles such as cerium (Ce) and zinc (Zn), and their comparative biological activities have not been sufficiently investigated. This study aimed to synthesize Ce and Zn nanoparticles using thermophilic bacterial strains and to evaluate their antimicrobial, antioxidant, DNA interaction, antibiofilm, microbial cytotoxic, and plant growth-promoting activities. Ce and Zn nanoparticles were synthesized extracellularly using Anoxybacillus flavithermus strain Gecek19 (T19-CeNPs and T19-ZnNPs) and Geobacillus stearothermophilus strain Gecek20 (T20-CeNPs and T20-ZnNPs). The biological activities of the nanoparticles were evaluated at different concentrations. Antioxidant activity was assessed using DPPH and metal chelating assays (12.5-200 mg/L). DNA cleavage, microbial cell viability (125-500 mg/L), biofilm inhibition (125-500 mg/L), antimicrobial activity, and seed germination assays (12.5-500 mg/L) were also performed. DPPH radical scavenging activities were 73.45%, 86.46%, 76.03%, and 82.60% for T19-CeNPs, T19-ZnNPs, T20-CeNPs, and T20-ZnNPs, respectively. Metal chelating activities were 67.12%, 64.56%, 72.40%, and 70.35%, respectively. The highest antimicrobial activity was observed for T19-ZnNPs with a Minimum Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) of 64 mg/L against Staphylococcus aureus and Enterococcus faecalis. All nanoparticles exhibited single-stranded DNA cleavage activity and significantly reduced microbial cell viability. Biofilm inhibition reached up to 99.14% with T19-ZnNPs against S. aureus. Additionally, nanoparticle treatments showed positive effects on barley seed germination, particularly enhancing root and coleoptile development at appropriate concentrations. The study demonstrates that thermophilic bacteria are effective biofactories for Ce and Zn nanoparticle synthesis. The resulting nanoparticles exhibited strong multifunctional biological activities, including antioxidant, antimicrobial, antibiofilm, and plant growth-promoting effects, indicating their potential for biomedical and agricultural applications.© The Author(s) 2026.
Invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) represents the second most common histologic subtype of breast cancer (BC), yet its genomic landscape and clinical implications remain less well defined compared with invasive ductal carcinoma. Understanding genetic predisposition in ILC may improve risk assessment and guide tailored clinical management.To investigate the prevalence and clinical outcomes of germline pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants (PVs) in BC predisposition genes among women with ILC and to assess the prognostic utility of polygenic risk scores (PRSs) in this population.This prospective, longitudinal cohort study was conducted at the European Institute of Oncology, Milan, Italy, from May 16, 2022, to January 31, 2025. Women diagnosed with primary ILC were enrolled and underwent multigene panel testing of 113 genes using next-generation sequencing. Follow-up data were collected until January 31, 2023. Statistical analysis was performed in January 2026.The primary outcome was BC-free survival, defined as the time from surgery to ipsilateral recurrence, contralateral disease, distant metastasis, or BC-related death. Secondary outcomes included overall survival and PRS distribution across genetic subgroups.A total of 414 White women (mean [SD] age, 53.7 [9.7] years; 211 [51.0%] with postmenopausal status) with ILC were tested. No significant associations were found between germline variant subgroups and patients' characteristics. PVs were identified in 46 patients (11.1%), with 20 (4.8%) carrying variants in moderate- to high-risk BC genes (ATM, BARD1, BRCA1, BRCA2, CDH1, CHEK2, NF1, FANCM, PALB2, RAD51C, RAD51D, STK11, TP53, and PTEN). The group of women carrying PVs in moderate- to high-risk BC genes had significantly reduced 5-year BC-free survival compared with the rest of cohort (62.2% [95% CI, 32.3%-82.0%] vs 92.1% [95% CI, 87.6%-95.0%]; hazard ratio, 3.91; 95% CI, 1.99-7.67; P < .001). PRS analysis did not reveal statistically significant differences in relapse risk across quartiles of PRS, and no association was found between PRSs and germline variant status.This cohort study of women with primary ILC identified a clinically relevant subset of patients carrying moderate- to high-risk germline PVs who exhibited an increased risk of early relapse. Although PRSs did not show prognostic value in this setting, multigene panel testing findings may refine genetic counseling and inform surveillance and therapeutic strategies in lobular breast tumors.
More than 80% of patients who meet clinical criteria for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer (HBOC) do not show pathogenic variants in BRCA1, BRCA2, and other diagnostically consented core genes. We hypothesized that variants in further DNA repair genes, cryptic genomic alterations, or polygenic factors may explain HBOC risk. We studied 134 patients with breast cancer and/or ovarian cancer by the use of whole genome sequencing (WGS), whole transcriptome sequencing (WTS), optical genome mapping (OGM), and mobile element analysis. We identified (likely) pathogenic variants in DNA repair genes in 18 patients, including several RECQ helicase and other DNA repair genes, an intragenic FANCM deletion, and six rare mobile element insertions (MEIs) in DNA repair genes. Incorporating PRS306 shifted estimated lifetime breast cancer risk by ≥5 percentage points in a subset of women (n = 75), including carriers of rare variants in DNA repair genes, resulting in both upward and downward risk estimation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Background: Chronic critical illness (CCI) following acute brain injury involves persistent immune dysfunction, yet its genetic determinants remain unclear. We investigated whether the rate of T-cell receptor excision circle (TREC) depletion-a proposed marker of adaptive homeostatic resilience-is associated with the burden of rare damaging genetic variants. Methods: Whole-exome sequencing (WES) was performed on a cohort of 84 patients (64 with traumatic brain injury, 20 with stroke). In a longitudinal sub-cohort (n = 27), patients were stratified into quartiles (Q1-Q4) based on the slope of their TREC trajectories. "Qualifying variants" (QVs) were defined using strict rarity (gnomAD allele frequency ≤ 0.001) and pathogenicity criteria. Gene-level burden (collapsing) analysis and permutation-based statistical testing (10,000 iterations) were employed to evaluate genetic enrichment in the extreme quartiles. Results: While baseline TREC levels were strictly age dependent (p < 0.0001), the rate of change (TREC slope) was age independent. Rapid TREC decline (Q1) correlated with significantly higher final SOFA scores (p = 0.001) and neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratios (p = 0.020). Rare variant burden analysis revealed that Q1 patients were significantly more likely to harbor QVs in immune-related genes compared to the Q4 recovery group (odds ratio = 8.25; permutation p = 0.016). Patients with rapid decline were enriched for QVs in putative core "housekeeping" pathways essential for T-cell maintenance and DNA repair (e.g., ERCC3, FANCM), whereas variants in recovering patients were restricted to peripheral effector or structural pathways. Conclusions: Our findings suggest, as a conceptual framework, that an individual's ability to maintain T-cell homeostasis during critical illness is influenced by their underlying genetic buffering capacity. We propose a hypothetical "two-hit" framework where physiological stress unmasks pre-existing fragilities in core homeostatic pathways-potentially reflecting a state of functional haploinsufficiency under extreme proliferative demand-leading to accelerated immune exhaustion. These results position the TREC slope as a dynamic, age-independent biomarker of genomic resilience in the ICU. All findings are exploratory and hypothesis generating.
Stem cell transplantation holds great promise for facial nerve repair, yet its efficacy is largely constrained by the excessive accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the highly inflammatory microenvironment. Thus, developing bioactive scaffolds with robust antioxidant capacity for stem cell transplantation remains a challenge. In this study, an injectable and self-healing composite hydrogel composed of chitosan, graphene oxide, and cerium oxide nanoparticles (CeNPs) was developed to provide structural support for the neural conduit, create a favorable microenvironment for human dental pulp stem cells (hDPSCs), and effectively promote facial nerve regeneration. The hydrogel exhibited intrinsic shear-thinning, self-recovery, and self-healing properties, ensuring its adaptability to irregular nerve defects and suitability for minimally invasive delivery, while its ROS-scavenging activity effectively reshaped the injury microenvironment to mitigate oxidative stress and inflammatory responses in the transplanted cells. In vitro, the composite hydrogel promoted the specific migration of hDPSCs, while alleviating cellular oxidative damage by modulating the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway to facilitate M2 polarization of macrophages. In a facial nerve defect model, treatment with the hydrogel in combination with hDPSCs significantly improved neurological function and tissue regeneration, achieving morphological and functional outcomes comparable to those of autologous nerve grafts. Collectively, this CeNPs-integrated hydrogel provides adaptive structural support, modulates the injury microenvironment, and promotes stem cell migration, representing a promising bioactive platform with clinical translational potential for facial nerve repair.
Oxidative stress (OS) induced by local reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation plays a vital role in initiating and accelerating intervertebral disc degeneration (IDD). Cerium oxide nanoparticles (CeNPs) have specific and efficient superoxide dismutase (SOD)-mimicking activity for ROS degradation. Their nanoscale particle size and nonstringent catalytic reaction conditions can potentially address challenges faced by traditional antioxidants in terms of remaining stable when used in degenerative avascular intervertebral disc (IVD).We cocultured three kinds of IVD cells (cells of annulus fibrosus (AF), cartilage endplate (CEP) and nucleus pulposus (NP)) with CeNPs to determine the safe range of CeNPs concentrations. Additionally, Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay, ROS level assay and calcein/PI staining were performed to detect the protective effect of CeNPs on IVD cells against OS in vitro. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM), inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) and blood analysis were used to describe its distribution pattern and the possible effects CeNPs may have on the body. Histological and immunohistochemical studies were implemented to analyse the capacity of CeNPs to prevent IDD induced by OS. Then western blotting was used to explore the corresponding mechanisms.The results showed that ≤ 40 µM CeNPs was safe for the three kinds of IVD cells. CeNPs alleviated the inhibition of cell proliferation and reduced the degree of cell death caused by OS to different degrees. Additionally, the OS-induced degeneration of each part of the IVD was partially relieved after pretreatment with CeNPs. These improvements might be achieved through reducing OS-mediated cellular inflammatory response, extracellular matrix (ECM) catabolism and apoptosis.This study proposes that the local application of CeNPs to the IVD could mitigate OS-induced IDD. Our findings indicate that experimental designs incorporating multiple IVD structures, IVD cells, and surrounding tissues are essential for evaluating drug effect and safety in IDD therapeutic development.© 2026. The Author(s).
The DNA damage response (DDR) is a complex network of cellular pathways that ensures the faithful maintenance of our genomes upon a wide array of genomic insults. To elucidate the functional architecture of this network, we conducted unbiased genetic interaction screens using the Cas12a genome editor to disrupt 233 DDR genes frequently mutated in cancer and other genetic diseases, either individually or in pairwise combinations. This approach enabled us to assess the phenotypic effects induced by the disruption of >27,000 DDR gene pair combinations under unperturbed cell growth conditions. From this analysis, we identified over 750 high-confidence positive (buffering) or negative (synthetic lethal/sick) gene-gene interactions, along with multiple connections between previously unlinked DDR pathways and modules, allowing us to define novel aspects of the cellular response to spontaneous, DNA replication-associated DNA damage. Among the identified genetic interactions, we uncovered profound synthetic lethal interactions between genes encoding 1) the translesion polymerase REV1-Pol ζ complex and the MCM8-MCM9-HROB DNA helicase complex; 2) Fanconi Anemia (FA) proteins and the mitotic DNA repair factors GEN1, CIP2A, and RHINO; and 3) the DNA translocase SMARCAL1 and components of the FANCM complex, suggesting novel opportunities for targeted therapies in tumors carrying mutations in these genes. Additionally, we identified robust suppressor interactions between the DCLRE1B gene encoding the nuclease APOLLO and the core non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) genes XRCC4 , LIG4 , and NHEJ1 , suggesting that NHEJ impairs the fitness of APOLLO-deficient cells. This work provides a functional map of the DDR network and demonstrates the power of Cas12a-based screens for identifying synthetic lethal and buffering interactions with therapeutic potential.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42557669
Gastric cancer (GC) is a major global digestive malignancy with high incidence and mortality. Circular fanconi anemia complementation group B (circFANCB) expression is elevated in cancer, and its suppression suppresses tumor progression. However, research on the function of circFANCB in GC has not been reported yet. The role and mechanism of circFANCB in GC were investigated through circular RNA (circRNA) sequencing, database prediction, and experimental validation, including quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR), ribonuclease R assay, nuclear-cytoplasmic fractionation, 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine assay, flow cytometry, wound healing assay, Transwell assay, tube formation assay, western blot, dual-luciferase reporter assay, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Furthermore, its mechanism was further explored in vivo using a xenograft nude mouse model and immunohistochemistry. Online prediction tools, methylation-dependent RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP), and RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) assays were employed to investigate whether methyltransferase-like protein 3 (METTL3) targeted circular FANCB (circFANCB) via m6A methylation. In GC, circFANCB expression was upregulated. Knockdown of circFANCB inhibited cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and angiogenesis while promoting cell death. CircFANCB increased CEACAM5 expression by binding to miR-454-3p. CEACAM5 suppressed ferroptosis in GC cells. Rescue experiments confirmed that circFANCB inhibited ferroptosis by upregulating CEACAM5, thereby promoting GC cell proliferation. Animal models demonstrated that circFANCB knockdown inhibited GC tumor growth. Additionally, METTL3 enhanced circFANCB expression through m6A methylation. Rescue experiments further confirmed that METTL3 promotes the malignant phenotype of GC cells by upregulating circFANCB. The m6A-modified circFANCB promotes the malignant progression of GC by regulating ferroptosis via the miR-454-3p/CEACAM5 axis, providing a theoretical basis for potential clinical therapeutic strategies.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Biochemical and Molecular Toxicology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Ultrahigh dose-rate radiotherapy (FLASH-RT) represents a rapidly emerging radiotherapy modality with improved normal tissue protection. However, tumor radioresistance remains a major obstacle limiting its clinical potential. To address this, we developed a novel redox-responsive, PROTAC-based nanoplatform (APF) formed by the self-assembly of folate-conjugated PEG2000-ARV-771 (FA-PEG2000-ARV-771). Following FA-mediated targeting and endocytic uptake by tumor cells, APF nanoparticles underwent glutathione-triggered cleavage in the reductive tumor microenvironment, releasing ARV-771 which promoted the proteasomal degradation of BRD4. The reduction of BRD4 disrupted the BRD4-c-Myc-RAD51AP1 signaling pathway and damaged the DNA repair pathway that resulting in a significant sensitizing effect of FLASH radiotherapy using Petal Accelerator platform. Both in vitro and in vivo experiments demonstrated that APF-assisted FLASH-RT markedly induced tumor cell apoptosis and necrosis, effectively inhibiting the malignant progression of tumors. Additionally, APF significantly enhanced FLASH-RT-induced tumor cell killing by promoting intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and exacerbating DNA double-strand breaks. Transcriptomic analysis further revealed that APF-mediated BRD4 degradation suppressed key DNA repair-related genes. As a result, the APF@FLASH-RT combination achieved superior tumor inhibition in vivo with minimal systemic toxicity. This work provides a promising nanomedicine strategy for enhancing FLASH radiotherapy efficacy through targeted protein degradation.© 2026 The Authors.
Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) evolves through stepwise clonal expansion within genetically altered mucosa fields, yet actionable biomarkers remain undefined. Leveraging Fanconi anemia (FA), a cancer predisposition syndrome with extreme HNSCC risk due to defective DNA interstrand crosslink repair, we profiled premalignant changes in the oral cavity using noninvasive brush biopsies. Consistent with our prior demonstration of genomic instability in FA-associated SCCs, we detected pathogenic TP53 variants in 26% and copy number alterations in 60.5% in clinically normal-appearing oral mucosa of individuals with FA. These subclinical clonal expansions define candidate biomarkers of early clonal evolution amenable to serial sampling for risk stratification and prevention studies. Since FA-associated SCCs share genomic features with sporadic HNSCC, these findings may extend to the broader population. We also identify somatic reversion of a pathogenic FANCB variant, providing evidence of genomic self-correction and suggesting a potential avenue for gene-based cancer prevention in FA.Oral mucosa of individuals with Fanconi anemia contains frequent abnormal clones creating a premalignant field that increases cancer risk. The noninvasive brush sampling approach allows repeated measurements, ongoing surveillance, and assessment of prophylactic strategies that may be useful in the prevention of cancers in people with FA and in the general population. Somatic reversion of a pathogenic FANC variant may protect the oral mucosa from DNA repair deficiency and premalignant clonal evolution.
Gastric cancer (GC) is a lethal malignancy with limited targeted therapeutic options, particularly for HER2-negative disease. Through integrated bioinformatic analysis of multiple GC cohorts, we identified poly(ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase (PARG) as a DNA damage response protein that is frequently overexpressed and associated with poor prognosis. While PARG inhibition as a monotherapy showed limited efficacy, high-throughput screening of FDA-approved drugs revealed a synthetic lethal interaction between PARG inhibition and fluoropyrimidines, including 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). Mechanistically, PARG directly bound the homologous recombination (HR) cofactor RAD51AP1 via its N-terminal domain and removed poly(ADP-ribose) (PAR) chains. The dePARylation prevented RNF169-mediated K48-linked ubiquitination of RAD51AP1, thereby protecting RAD51AP1 from proteasomal degradation. Consequently, loss of PARG destabilized RAD51AP1 and impaired HR repair, resulting in increased sensitivity to fluoropyrimidine-induced DNA lesions. In patient-derived xenograft models, PARG inhibition significantly enhanced the efficacy of both 5-FU and the oral prodrug capecitabine. Moreover, restoring RAD51AP1 expression substantially reversed the chemosensitizing effect conferred by PARG deficiency. Clinically, PARG and RAD51AP1 protein levels were strongly correlated in GC tissues, and their co-expression defined a subset of patients with the worst survival. Collectively, these findings identify a PARylation-ubiquitination switch regulated by PARG that stabilizes RAD51AP1 to enhance HR repair, unveiling the PARG-RAD51AP1 axis as a key determinant of fluoropyrimidine sensitivity and a biomarker-directed target for combination therapy in GC.
Homologous recombination (HR) requires efficient homology search and strand invasion, yet how homologous templates are identified within nuclear space remains unclear. Here, we identify G-quadruplex (G4) DNA structures as pervasive effectors of template strand invasion and uncover the G4 helicase DHX36 as a potent suppressor of this process. DHX36 loss stabilizes G4s, enhances HR, and accelerates repair of replication-associated DNA breaks. G4-mediated HR depends on the non-canonical strand invasion factors RAD51AP1, WDR48, and USP1, and requires G4 motifs within the homologous repair template. DHX36 loss partially restores HR and PARP inhibitor resistance in BRCA1-deficient cells, while promoting aberrant recombination and Alternative Lengthening of Telomeres (ALT). Together, our findings establish dynamic G4 regulation as a key determinant of homology search, genome maintenance, and recombination fidelity.
Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) proliferate rapidly while robustly maintaining genomic integrity and exhibiting high cell-cycle kinase activity. How this activity contributes to genome integrity remains unclear. Here, using mouse ESCs engineered to express an analog-sensitive CDK2, we combine thiophosphate labeling with mass spectrometry to define a high-confidence CDK2 substrate landscape. We uncovered 65 CDK2 substrates in total, including both known and previously unrecognized substrates. Among these, HMCES, a sensor of apurinic/apyrimidinic (AP) sites, was identified as a specific cyclin E-CDK2 substrate. We mapped three CDK2-dependent phosphorylation sites in HMCES and showed that phosphorylation of these sites decreased HMCES binding to ssDNA. Mutational analysis further revealed that HMCES docks to cyclin E-CDK2 complexes via the hydrophobic patch on cyclin E. Finally, we demonstrated that HMCES phosphorylation contributes to AP-site repair and promotes ESC proliferation. Together, our findings uncover a CDK2-HMCES signaling axis that links rapid cell-cycle progression to the preservation of genome stability in mouse ESCs.
Severe combined immune deficiency (SCID) is a rare inherited defect of lymphocytes causing life-threatening opportunistic infections in early infancy. Data on SCID from China are limited. This study explores the clinical, immunologic, and genetic features of a SCID cohort from Yunnan Province in China and reports novel variants. We collated clinical, laboratory, and molecular details from patients with a clinical profile suggestive of SCID. Trio-based whole-exome sequencing was performed to identify genetic variants. For the 9 previously reported variants identified in our cohort, we systematically reviewed the literature for additional cases carrying the same variants and compared clinical and immunologic features. Eleven infant patients (8 males and 3 females) were included. Molecular diagnoses were obtained in 10 patients, as follows: IL2RG (3), RAG2 (3), LIG4 (2), DCLRE1C (1), and CD3D (1). Nine patients presented with classic SCID features within the first 3 months of life. Eleven variants were identified: 2 novel RAG2 variants (p.L469P and p.Q492R) and 9 variants previously reported in SCID-associated genes. One patient with the p.Q492R variant exhibited a relatively milder clinical course. An extremely rare case of Omenn syndrome due to IL2RG deficiency was also observed. Ten of 11 patients died within 6 months of age. The literature review identified 94 additional cases carrying these same variants; clinical presentations were generally consistent with our patients, although some variability was observed. We characterized the clinical and genetic profiles of 11 SCID patients from Yunnan, China, identifying two novel RAG2 variants. While these findings expand the mutational spectrum in understudied populations, the high mortality and diagnostic delays observed here underscore the critical need for universal newborn screening in China. Further functional studies are required to confirm the impact of the identified variants.© 2026. The Author(s).
A subgroup of patients with severe combined immunodeficiencies (SCID) has disease-causing variants in genes involved in nonhomologous end-joining (NHEJ) repair of DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs). The most common variants among these patients are in the DCLRE1C gene coding for the Artemis protein, which makes up 2-3% of all SCID. Patients with Artemis deficiency are radiosensitive (RS) and are referred to as RS-SCID. Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is the only curative treatment. Due to defects in NHEJ repair, modified protocols are used for HSCT conditioning, resulting in poor engraftment (post-transplantation) in some patients. We describe the clinical and molecular findings in two siblings with a compound heterozygous variant in DCLRE1C. We previously reported functional radiosensitivity in their T cells using a novel cell division assay (CDA). Here, we applied the CDA and the novel DSB repair assay to assess T cell function after HSCT. Posttransplant T cells showed reduced radiosensitivity and a DNA repair efficiency comparable to controls. Donor engraftment was low in myeloid cells but exceeded 95% in lymphocytes. Both patients had low lymphocyte counts after HSCT, but clinical symptoms improved. The assays presented here are useful for investigating the pathology of new variants in the DSB repair pathway and monitoring outcomes after HSCT.© 2026 Lyytikäinen et al.
Severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) can be detected at birth through T-cell receptor excision circles (TREC) analysis in dried blood spots. This study summarizes the results of the consolidated SCID newborn screening (NBS) program in Catalonia (Spain) during the first seven years of program implementation (2017-2023).Newborns were screened for SCID using the EnLite Neonatal TREC assay (cut-off: 20 copies/μL), with confirmatory immunological and genetic testing performed in screen-positive cases. Definitive SCID diagnosis was established according to PIDTC-2022 definitions, while final diagnostic classification followed the recommendations provided by Blom et al.Among 420,263 screened newborns, 105 screened positive (0.02%). SCID was diagnosed in eight infants and congenital athymia in one, corresponding to an overall incidence of 1:46,753 live births. Identified genetic defects included RAG2 (n=3), PNP (n=1), IL2RG (n=2), DCLRE1C (n=1), and FOXI3 (n=1) (one case remained genetically undefined). Six patients underwent early hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, achieving favorable outcomes in five patients, with one death due to post-transplant complications. In addition, gene therapy (IL2RG, DCLRE1C) and thymic transplantation (FOXI3) resulted in successful outcomes in the three remaining patients. Overall and event-free survival reached 88%. Median age at diagnosis was 9 days and median age at initiation of definitive therapy was 3 months. In addition to SCID cases, 53 newborns were diagnosed with non-SCID T-cell lymphopenia (1:7,939), including syndromic, idiopathic, and reversible forms. During follow-up, patients with idiopathic T-cell lymphopenia did not develop significant infectious or autoimmune complications, except for one case of autoimmune neutropenia. Thirty-three cases were classified as false positives (0.008%).The Catalonian SCID newborn screening program demonstrated high clinical effectiveness, enabling early definitive treatment and excellent survival outcomes with a low false-positive burden. In addition, systematic follow-up of non-SCID T-cell lymphopenia identified through SCID screening appears warranted. These findings support the sustainability and clinical value of universal SCID screening programs.Copyright © 2026 Argudo-Ramírez, Martín-Nalda, Laguna, Riviere, González de Aledo-Castillo, López-Galera, Colobran, Batlle-Masó, Quintero, Martínez, Paredes-Fuentes, Perurena-Prieto, Alonso, Prats-Viedma, García-Villoria and Soler-Palacín.
Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) remains a highly aggressive malignancy with poor clinical outcomes. Although poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitors have shown promising activity in tumors with homologous recombination deficiency, their efficacy in BRCA wild-type HNSCC remains limited. Reactive oxygen species (ROS)-induced DNA damage may increase cellular dependence on DNA repair pathways and thereby enhance sensitivity to PARP inhibition. This study investigated whether ROS-mediated DNA damage could sensitize BRCA wild-type HNSCC cells to the PARP inhibitor olaparib.BRCA wild-type HSC-3 and SCC-25 HNSCC cell lines were exposed to H2O2 to induce oxidative stress. Intracellular ROS levels were quantified using DCFDA assays, DNA double-strand breaks were evaluated by γ-H2AX ELISA, PARP activity was assessed by ELISA, and cell viability was determined using MTT assays. Expression levels of DNA repair genes (PARP1, PARP2, BRCA1, BRCA2, RAD51, and MLH1), checkpoint kinases (ATM, ATR, and CHK1), the homologous recombination regulator FANCD2, and redox defense genes (NQO1, GPX4, and SLC7A11) were analyzed by qRT-PCR. Therapeutic selectivity was assessed using HGF-1 normal human gingival fibroblasts as a normal cell control. Apoptosis was measured through caspase-3/7 activity assays, and drug interactions were evaluated using the Chou-Talalay method.H2O2 treatment increased intracellular ROS levels in both cell lines, accompanied by significant induction of DNA damage as demonstrated by elevated γ-H2AX levels. ROS induction markedly enhanced olaparib sensitivity, significantly reducing IC50 values in both HSC-3 and SCC-25 cells. Combined H2O2 and olaparib treatment produced strong synergistic cytotoxicity, suppressed DNA repair, checkpoint kinase, and redox defense gene expression, and increased caspase-3/7 activity compared with control cells. Importantly, the combination demonstrated selective cytotoxicity toward cancer cells, with normal HGF-1 cells retaining significantly higher viability.ROS-induced DNA damage significantly enhances the anti-tumor activity of olaparib in BRCA wild-type HNSCC cells through a functional synthetic lethal-like interaction involving the simultaneous collapse of DNA repair capacity, checkpoint activation, and oxidative stress buffering, culminating in apoptosis induction. These findings support the rationale for combining ROS-generating therapies with PARP inhibitors in HNSCC treatment.
Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD) and Lewy body dementia (LBD) overlap clinically, pathologically and genetically, complicating interpretation of cross-disorder genome-wide association study (GWAS) signals.We analysed 322,963 UK Biobank participants with bidirectional time-varying Cox models, one-year and two-year lag analyses, and competing-risk sensitivity models to quantify AD-PD clinical co-occurrence. We then analysed European-ancestry AD, PD and LBD GWAS summary statistics using linkage disequilibrium score regression (LDSC), GCTA-mtCOJO/GSMR, MAGMA, stratified LDSC, brain eQTL/mQTL SMR with HEIDI filtering, and Bayesian colocalization for selected methylation probes. Conditional loci were compared with original GWAS loci to separate shared liability from retained disorder-predominant associations.PD was associated with subsequent AD (fully adjusted HR 2.27, 95% CI 1.94-2.65; P = 6.40E-25), and AD was associated with subsequent PD (HR 3.14, 95% CI 2.56-3.85; P = 2.10E-28). Lag and competing-risk sensitivity analyses remained concordant. LDSC estimated positive genetic correlations for AD-PD (rg = 0.20; P = 0.0086) and PD-LBD (rg = 0.61; P = 0.0005). Conditioning reduced genome-wide significant loci from 14 to 9 for AD, from 24 to 21 for PD and from 5 to 2 for LBD. Retained loci included AD signals near CR1, BIN1, CLU, SPI1, MS4A, PICALM, ABCA7 and APOE; PD signals near GBA, NUCKS1, TMEM163, STK39, GAK/TMEM175, BST1, SNCA, LRRK2, MAPT and RIT2; and LBD signals near SNCA/MMRN1 and APOE. MAGMA and S-LDSC highlighted amyloid, lipid, immune, synaptic-vesicle and brain-tissue enrichment patterns. Brain QTL analyses prioritized retained eQTL and mQTL signals, and colocalization supported shared PD-GWAS/mQTL signals at HLA-DRB5, ARHGAP27, CRHR1, MAPT and KANSL1.AD and PD show bidirectional clinical co-occurrence, whereas conditional genetic analyses retain a smaller set of disease-predominant loci and regulatory signals across AD, PD and LBD. These findings refine cross-disorder interpretation and nominate loci for independent genetic and functional validation.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Zhang, Qiu and Hu.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42444811 is a review article
Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) is a leading cause of global morbidity and mortality, but its genetic architecture remains incompletely understood. This study aims to uncover novel genetic insights into ASCVD through multivariate genomic analysis and molecular structure predictions.We analysed genomic data from over 3.8 million individuals across various ASCVD phenotypes, including coronary heart disease, stroke, transient ischemic attack, peripheral artery disease and abdominal aortic aneurysm. Advanced tools such as Genomic Structural Equation Modeling, fine-mapping, FUSION, FOCUS and other functional annotation methods were applied to identify causal single nucleotide polymorphisms associated with ASCVD. Protein structural analysis was performed using AlphaFold3, and AI-driven thermodynamic analysis (ThermoMPNN) assessed the stability and functional consequences of mutations.Our analysis revealed 347 genome-wide significant variants linked to ASCVD, distributed across 213 loci. Ninety of these variants were not identified in any of the five input GWAS datasets. Upon cross‑referencing with large‑scale external GWAS, 19 of the 90 variants showed no prior association with any cardiovascular or metabolic trait, 15 were previously reported only in risk factor GWAS, and 56 had been reported in direct ASCVD endpoint GWAS. The latter group includes the DCLRE1B rs11552449 missense mutation. Nevertheless, AI‑based structural and thermodynamic analyses revealed that this mutation (H61Y) disrupts DCLRE1B protein stability, increases conformational flexibility, and alters solvent‑accessible surface area-mechanistic insights that have not been previously described.This study provides a hypothesis‑generating genetic landscape of ASCVD, unveiling novel variants and their molecular impacts. These findings enhance our understanding of ASCVD mechanisms and may offer potential avenues pending experimental validation and targeted therapies in cardiovascular disease.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical and Translational Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Shanghai Institute of Clinical Bioinformatics.
Ferroptosis has been increasingly implicated in the progression of various tumors, including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). This study aimed to identify ferroptosis-related genes with prognostic significance in HCC. Differential expressed genes (DEGs) and long non-coding RNAs (DElncRNAs) were identified from TCGA LIHC RNA-seq data. A competitive endogenous RNA (ceRNA) network was established based on ferroptosis-related lncRNA-mRNA pairs. Prognostic genes were identified through survival analysis, and selected DEGs were further validated via quantitative PCR. Co-expression analysis identified 218 lncRNA-mRNA pairs, including 216 DEGs and 11 DElncRNAs. Among these, 11 upregulated ferroptosis-related genes were identified as predicted targets of the lncRNA DDX11-AS1. MiR-195 and miR-424 both regulated CDC25A and HELLS. Elevated expression of DDX11-AS1, CDC25A, EZH2, FANCD2, and HELLS was associated with poorer survival. In vitro cellular experiments showed that the knockdown of DDX11-AS1, CDC25A, and HELLS inhibited cell proliferation and invasion by promoting ferroptosis in Huh7 cells. The 11 ferroptosis-related genes and DDX11-AS1 may serve as valuable prognostic biomarkers and potential immunotherapeutic targets in HCC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Fanconi anemia is a rare genomic instability syndrome associated with congenital abnormalities and cancer predisposition. These alterations are mainly due to deficiencies in DNA repair mechanisms. The Fanconi anemia pathway is evolutionarily conserved, allowing functional studies in model organisms like Caenorhabditis elegans, where it promotes and executes error-free homologous-recombination over the mutagenic non-homologous-end-joining pathway; fcd-2 (FANCD2 ortholog) plays a key role in this regulation to preserve genome stability. In this study, we report that the choice of DNA repair pathway for resolving double-strand breaks is influenced by absence of the RAD-51 long isoform, a key component of the Fanconi anemia pathway that plays a central role in homologous strand exchange during recombination.In C. elegans, which is predicted to encode three RAD-51 isoforms, we find that loss of RAD-51 isoform A enhances homologous recombination efficiency. Additionally, RAD-51 isoform A depletion decreases developmental and meiotic defects in fcd-2 mutants as well as reduces chromosome aggregation in fcd-2-deficient germ cells.Together, these findings reveal a novel role for RAD-51 C. elegans, suggesting that the pattern of RAD-51 isoform expression modulates the balance between homologous recombination and non-homologous-end-joining, thereby preserving genome stability.© 2026. The Author(s).
Observational studies have shown that obesity is associated with an increased risk of atrial fibrillation (AF), but the underlying genetic mechanisms and direction of causality remain unclear. This study aims to systematically investigate the genetic associations, direction of causality and key pleiotropic genes linking obesity and AF by integrating large-scale genome-wide association study (GWAS) data and employing various genetic methods.This study utilised pooled GWAS data on obesity (FinnGen R12) and AF (a large-scale GWAS meta-analysis). First, linkage disequilibrium score regression (LDSC) and high-definition likelihood inference (HDL) were employed to assess heritability and genetic correlation, while bidirectional Mendelian randomisation (MR) was used to infer the direction of causality. Secondly, multi-trait analysis of GWAS (MTAG) was applied to the AF GWAS by integrating the obesity dataset to generate an enhanced MTAG-AF dataset. Independent genetic loci were identified using functional mapping and annotation (FUMA) and GCTA conditional and joint analysis (GCTA-COJO) and gene-based association analyses were conducted using multi-marker analysis of genomic annotation (MAGMA) and GCTA-fast set-based association test (GCTA-fastBAT). Subsequently, tissue-specific enrichment analysis using LDSC applied to specifically expressed genes (LDSC-SEG), transcriptome-wide association studies (TWAS) and summary-data-based Mendelian randomisation (SMR) were utilised to investigate the tissue-specific expression of pleiotropic genes. Finally, the causal relationships between key pleiotropic genes and traits were assessed using bidirectional gene-trait MR.Both LDSC (rg = 0.2285, SE = 0.0257, p = 7.00 × 10-19) and HDL (rg = 0.2885, SE = 0.0418, p = 4.83 × 10-12) analyses confirmed a significant genetic correlation between obesity and AF. Bidirectional MR analysis revealed that obesity had a significant positive causal effect on AF (IVW: 1.160, 95% CI: 1.115-1.208, p = 3.14 × 10-13), while no evidence of reverse causality was found (IVW: OR = 1.004, p = 0.810). A total of 216 overlapping genes from FUMA and GCTA-COJO and 240 shared pleiotropic genes from gene-based analyses were identified, with 62 pleiotropic genes further obtained through intersection analysis. These pleiotropic genes were primarily enriched in transcriptional regulation, pathways related to myocardial action potentials and the PI3K/AKT signalling pathway. NFATC2IP, NUCKS1 and PCCB were found to exhibit both tissue-specific expression and genetic regulatory associations in adipose and cardiac tissues. Genetically predicted higher expression of NFATC2IP, NUCKS1 and PCCB was associated with increased AF risk. Higher NFATC2IP and NUCKS1 expression also increased obesity risk. Reverse MR revealed that obesity upregulated NFATC2IP expression and AF upregulated PCCB expression.This study provides genetic evidence supporting a shared genetic basis and a likely unidirectional causal relationship from obesity to AF. NFATC2IP, NUCKS1 and PCCB are identified as key pleiotropic genes, offering new genetic insights and potential therapeutic targets for obesity-related AF.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42185655 is a review article
Interstrand crosslinks are cytotoxic lesions that inhibit essential processes including replication and transcription. Replication fork reversal occurs in response to interstrand crosslink inducing drug, MMC, but how replication fork reversal promotes repair of interstrand crosslinks is poorly understood. Here, we investigated the role of the RAD54L translocase in interstrand crosslink repair. We found RAD54L is required to promote nascent DNA degradation in FANCD2 and FANCA-depleted cells consistent with a previous study indicating RAD54L promotes replication fork reversal. We further show RAD54L activity is required for formation of radial chromosomes in FANCD2-deficient cells suggesting fork reversal may be required to generate the intermediate undergoing aberrant fusion in FANC-deficient cells. Finally, we demonstrate FANCD2 foci accumulate and DSBs persist in RAD54L-deficient cells indicating RAD54L is required for efficient repair of DSBs. Together, our results indicate RAD54L plays multiple roles in efficient processing and repair of interstrand crosslinks.
Glioma represents the most common primary malignant tumor of the central nervous system. The complement system, as a key component of the tumor microenvironment (TME), participates in tumor progression by mediating inflammatory responses and immune regulation. However, the specific mechanisms whereby complement system-related genes drive glioma recurrence remain unclear, and robust molecular biomarkers for recurrence prediction are absent. Therefore, this study aims to explore how these genes facilitate glioma progression and recurrence, and to construct a gene signature for recurrence risk prediction.By analyzing data from public databases Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) and Chinese Glioma Genome Atlas (CGGA) and employing differential expression analysis, univariate Cox regression, multivariate Cox regression, and Bioinformatic regression analyses, we identified six core genes (CFI, DIABLO, DLGAP5, FANCL, FCER2, TLR2) and constructed a recurrence risk score model. Furthermore, we externally validated the risk score model using recurrence-free survival (RFS) data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database to assess its predictive performance.Patients in the high-risk group exhibited significantly shorter overall survival (OS). At the mechanistic level, the expression of core genes was potentially closely associated with the C5-C5AR1 complement axis and M2 macrophage infiltration. The observed increase in immune cell infiltration, upregulation of immune checkpoints, and enhanced chemoresistance in the high-risk group suggest that the core genes may promote tumor progression by modulating an immunosuppressive microenvironment via the complement pathway. Analysis of chemotherapeutic drug sensitivity further revealed a more pronounced drug-resistant phenotype in the high-risk group. The prognostic performance of the model was validated using a nomogram, which demonstrated strong predictive ability.This study provides a novel complement system-related gene-based predictive model for glioma recurrence, which may provide a potential biomarker for prognosis assessment and personalized treatment, as well as new insights into the role of the complement system in the immune microenvironment of glioma.© AME Publishing Company.
The PROfound clinical trial showed that patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) who harbored homologous recombination repair gene mutations (HRRm) benefited from receiving olaparib monotherapy. This is the first real-world study in the U.S. to evaluate olaparib monotherapy in patients with mCRPC and HRRm.This retrospective study used data abstracted from electronic medical records in the ConcertAI Oncology Dataset. Patients with confirmed mCRPC, diagnosed between 2012 and 2023, age ≥21 years, treated with olaparib monotherapy (post-May 19, 2020) after exposure to abiraterone or enzalutamide, and with positive HRRm status were included. HRR genes of interest were ATM, BARD1, BRCA1, BRCA2, BRIP1, CDK12, CHEK1, CHEK2, FANCL, PALB2, RAD51B, RAD51C, RAD51D, and RAD54L. Biomarker testing patterns and treatment patterns were reported from initial prostate cancer diagnosis. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to estimate real-world time on treatment (rwToT), progression-free survival (rwPFS), and overall survival (rwOS) from the earliest olaparib monotherapy exposure (index date). Patients were stratified by mutation status (any BRCA mutation and non-BRCA HRRm) and receipt of chemotherapy before index.Overall, 144 patients were included in the study, with 74 patients (51.4%) having any BRCAm (including co-occurring mutations) and 70 (48.6%) having non-BRCA HRRm. Overall, the median age was 73 years, and 73.6% were White. Nearly 60% of patients received olaparib monotherapy in 4L or greater from initial prostate cancer diagnosis. Over half received at least 1 regimen of chemotherapy before index. Overall, the median rwPFS was 4.5 months (6.7 months for patients with any BRCAm and 3.4 months for patients with non-BRCA HRRm). Overall, the median rwOS was 16.5 months (20.3 months for patients with any BRCAm and 12.9 months for non-BRCA HRRm).Earlier biomarker testing and retesting should be considered to improve outcomes with targeted therapy.This study evaluated 144 patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) who harbored homologous recombination repair gene mutations (HRRm) and treated with olaparib monotherapy after exposure to abiraterone or enzalutamide. Earlier biomarker testing and retesting for previously unrecognized or newly acquired mutations should be considered for patients with mCRPC. Patients may benefit from improved outcomes with targeted therapy when appropriate.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The northern pike (Esox lucius) is an economically important cold-water fish species in northern China. It exhibits pronounced sexual dimorphism, yet the molecular mechanism underlying its sex differentiation remains unclear, which hinders the development of aquaculture. Whole-transcriptome sequencing is a powerful approach for screening sex-related genes; however, no such study has been reported for this species to date. In this study, gonadal tissues from three female and three male E. lucius were collected for whole-transcriptome sequencing. A total of 14,941 differentially expressed messengerRNAs, 119 differentially expressed microRNAs, 229 differentially expressed circularRNAs, and 2055 differentially expressed long non-codingRNAs were identified. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that the differentially expressed genes were significantly enriched in pathways closely associated with sex differentiation, such as steroid hormone biosynthesis and oocyte meiosis. Several key sex-biased genes were identified, including female-biased genes (FANCL, DDX5, SRSF5B) and male-biased genes (STAR, FDX1B, ITGA2B). Furthermore, a competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) regulatory network involving dre-miR-107b was constructed, which may represent a candidate for further investigation into sex differentiation in E. lucius. This study provides the first comprehensive whole-transcriptome dataset of female and male gonads in E. lucius, identifies key sex-biased genes and core pathways involved in its sex differentiation, and thereby identifies the dre-miR-107b-centered ceRNA network and key sex-biased genes (FANCL, DDX5, SRSF5B, STAR, FDX1B, ITGA2B) as core molecular players in sex differentiation of this species.
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), the most common type of lymphoma, arises from various pathogenic mechanisms including gene translocations and fusions. Detection of gene rearrangements using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) is a standard practice for DLBCL diagnosis and guides treatment decisions. High-throughput chromosome conformation capture (Hi-C) DNA sequencing is a next-generation sequencing-based technology to identify genome-wide rearrangements using a single assay. In this study, Hi-C sequencing was performed using FFPE tissues from 159 patients with DLBCL, and identified 746 cancer genes at or proximal to the rearrangement breakpoints with a total of 1903 occurrences. Focusing on clinically important rearrangements, Hi-C detected 102 rearrangements of MYC, BCL2, and/or BCL6 in 92 patients and revealed the fusion partners, including 25 rearrangements missed by FISH. Causes of FISH negative results included FISH-cryptic breakpoints, complex or faint FISH signals, low percentage of FISH positivity, and issues related to tissue fixation. Moreover, in 20 patients (12.6%), Hi-C sequencing detected 22 rearrangements characteristic of other lymphoma types, including CCND1 rearrangements that could lead to reclassification as mantle cell lymphoma. Survival analysis for genome-wide rearrangements using machine learning models identified MYC, PD-L1, CCND1, BCL2, NTRK1/PRCC, RRAS, and FANCE rearrangements with significant prognostic effects in the DLBCL cohort. In conclusion, Hi-C sequencing detects gene rearrangements crucial for diagnosis in an unbiased and molecular manner and showed high sensitivity and specificity in our study. These advantages of Hi-C sequencing offer help to improve the workflow of clinical pathology laboratories, diagnostic precision, and treatment of large B-cell lymphoma.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
Objectives: Germline variants in cancer predisposition genes have been increasingly recognized in pediatric cancers. However, their spectrum in East Asian children with central nervous system (CNS) tumors remains insufficiently defined. This study investigated the prevalence and clinical significance of pathogenic or likely pathogenic (P/LP) germline mutations in Korean children, adolescents, and young adults (AYAs) with CNS tumors. Methods: We performed targeted next-generation sequencing of 358 cancer-associated genes using peripheral blood DNA from 108 patients. Germline variants were classified according to ACMG/AMP guidelines and curated using ClinVar and relevant literature. Results: Among 108 patients, 17 (15.7%) carried P/LP germline variants. The median age at diagnosis was 7.7 years (range, 1.0-24.0), and 64.7% were male. P/LP variants were most frequent in other CNS tumors (4/11, 36.4%), including 2 glioneuronal tumors, 1 schwannoma, 1 atypical teratoid rhabdoid tumor (ATRT), and gliomas (9/32, 28.1%), followed by medulloblastomas (3/31, 9.7%). In gliomas, P/LP variants in MLH1, NF1, MUTYH, PALB2, PMS2, FANCM, and TP53 were observed, while medulloblastomas carried alterations in SUFU, BRIP1, and FANCI. SMARCB1 variant was found in ATRT. Among 25 patients with intracranial germ cell tumors, only a single case carried a P/LP germline variant, identified in FANCI. Conclusion: Germline P/LP mutations were identified in 15.7% of Korean children and AYAs with CNS tumors, most commonly in gliomas and other CNS tumors. Our findings highlight the molecular heterogeneity of germline predisposition in CNS tumors and emphasize the importance of germline testing for risk assessment and surveillance.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
BRCA1/2 founder mutation have been detected in various populations and ethnicities. Molecular diagnosis of HBOC remains challenging for populations where founder mutations have not yet been identified. There are limited data on hereditary BC mutations in ethnic groups of Siberia. The purpose of this study was to find new hereditary breast cancer (BC) variants in the understudied Buryat ethnic group by using WES data and DNA construct for their subsequent validation.<br /><br />Methods: Our study included a 52-year-old Buryat BC patient with a family history of BC (sister with BC). To identify novel as well as previously described variants, obtained by WES, we used the OpenCRAVAT mutation impact scoring algorithm (comprehensive knowledge base). For variants requiring further study, the DNA construct method was used. <br /><br />Result: According to WES data, no pathogenic variants were found in a 52-year-old Buryat BC patient with a family history of BC. The patient was found to have rare variants of unknown significance (MLH1 c.C550T:p.R184C and FANCI c.A1111G:p.S371G) and c.986C>T DOCK8 gene variant (as secondary findings). In silico analysis indicated that only c.986C>T variant of DOCK8 gene may affect splicing (a key immunity gene could act as a tumor suppressor). Electrophoresis of PCR fragments obtained using cDNA as a template showed that in the presence of the c.986C>T variant, the length of the PCR product was 60 bp less than in the case of the reference sequence of this region. <br /><br />Conclusion: We suggest that the combined carriage of the c.A1111G mutation of the FANCI gene and c.986C>T DOCK8 gene identified in this patient may likely increase the risk of developing BC. Our functional data indicate a potential impact c.986C>T variant of the DOCK8 gene on splicing. The role of the c.986C>T variant in BC pathogenesis and its prevalence in Buryats ethnic group remain to be elucidated.
Activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID) is a host restriction factor known to suppress hepatitis B virus (HBV) replication. However, the precise mechanisms underlying its antiviral activity remain incompletely understood. Combining RNA-Seq and functional assays, our study reveals a novel pathway by which AID inhibits HBV replication via downregulating the expression of Fanconi anemia complementation group E (FANCE). Our findings demonstrate that AID significantly reduces FANCE expression, and that FANCE promotes viral replication by specifically activating the HBV enhancer II/core promoter (EnhII/CP), a key transcriptional regulatory element. Combinatorial regulation experiments further confirm that FANCE is involved in AID-mediated HBV transcription. These results identify a novel downstream gene of AID, broaden the perspective on the host antiviral immune network against HBV, and provides a rationale for potential antiviral strategies targeting the FANCE regulatory axis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Fanconi anemia (FA) is a rare inherited disorder characterized by genomic instability, congenital anomalies, and progressive bone marrow failure; such manifestations may vary across populations, partly due to differences in genetic background. This study aims to describe the clinical and molecular spectrum of FA in Mexican patients. A total of 14 patients with clinical suspicion of FA were evaluated; cytogenetic and molecular analyses were successfully performed using MLPA and NGS. Clinically, short stature was present in 100% (n = 14) of the patients, followed by upper limb abnormalities, which were present in 78.6% (n = 11) of the patients, and microphthalmia, which was present in 71.4% (n = 10) of the patients. Molecular analysis identified pathogenic variants in FANCA (78.6%, n = 11), FANCC (14.3%, n = 2), and FANCE (7.1%, n = 1), with a relatively balanced distribution of homozygous (57.1%, n = 8) and compound heterozygous variants (42.9%, n = 6). Notably, the FANCA:c.3931_3932del variant was recurrent in six patients from the same geographic region (Michoacan), suggesting possible regional enrichment. Our findings expand the clinical and molecular characterization of FA in Mexican patients and underscore the importance of integrating phenotypic and genomic data to better understand population-specific patterns of this disorder.
Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapy has emerged as a pivotal cancer treatment by activating antitumor immunity. However, its clinical efficacy remains limited in many patients, highlighting the need for combination strategies to overcome resistance. Inducing immunogenic cell death (ICD) represents a promising approach to remodel the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment and improve ICB efficacy.A high-throughput screen of a natural compound library identified potent ICD inducers. Polyphyllin II (PPII), a bioactive component from Paris polyphylla, was selected for further investigation. Its effects on ICD markers, tumor growth, and immune activation were evaluated in vitro and in vivo. Limited proteolysis-mass spectrometry was employed to identify the direct target of PPII, followed by mechanistic studies using molecular and immunological assays.PPII was identified as a potent ICD inducer, stimulating the release of high mobility group box 1, ATP, and calreticulin from tumor cells. PPII suppressed tumor growth and enhanced antitumor immunity by promoting dendritic cell maturation and antigen cross-presentation, leading to CD8+ T-cell activation. Mechanistically, PPII directly bound to glucose-regulated protein 75 (GRP75), enhancing endoplasmic reticulum-mitochondrial tethering, provoking endoplasmic reticulum stress and mitochondrial calcium overload, and promoting cytochrome c release and caspase-3 activation. This cascade ultimately triggered gasdermin E (GSDME)-mediated pyroptosis. Furthermore, PPII synergized with anti-programmed cell death protein 1 therapy by reprogramming the tumor immune microenvironment and promoting systemic antitumor immunity.Our findings identify GRP75 as a novel therapeutic target for cancer immunotherapy and highlight PPII-driven immune reprogramming as a translatable strategy to potentiate ICB efficacy through the induction of immunogenic pyroptosis.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Plant nitrogen uptake and utilization are governed by a complex network involving nitrate transporters and signal-responsive genes. Here, we show that the high mobility group box 1 protein OsHMGB1 directly binds to the OsNRT2.2 promoter and functions as a transcriptional repressor, negatively regulating its expression. Knockout of OsHMGB1 upregulates OsNRT2.2 expression, leading to increased nitrate accumulation and enhanced tolerance to low-nitrogen (LN) conditions in rice seedlings. Furthermore, OsHMGB1 expression is significantly reduced in OsCBL1-knockdown (OsCBL1-KD) plants, suggesting its dependence on OsCBL1-mediated signaling. OsHMGB1 acts additively with OsCCA1, a known repressor that binds the OsNRT2.2 promoter, to negatively regulate OsNRT2.2 expression. Notably, sequence variation in the OsHMGB1 promoter between indica and japonica rice varieties correlates with lower expression levels in indica varieties, which are associated with higher nitrogen use efficiency (NUE)-related agronomic traits, specifically, greater grain yield and increased number of effective panicles, in indica varieties compared with japonica. Together, these findings identify OsHMGB1 as a key repressor of OsNRT2.2, associated with OsCBL1-dependent nitrate signaling and act additively with OsCCA1 to enhance LN tolerance, suggesting that OsHMGB1 expression levels correlate with NUE-related traits under LN conditions. This work elucidates a link between calcium signaling and nitrate response in rice.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) that occur during mitosis are primarily repaired by Polθ-mediated microhomology-mediated end joining (MMEJ). The CIP2A-TOPBP1 complex has been shown to tether broken chromatin at mitotic DSBs, but whether it coordinates with or functions independently of Polθ remains unknown. Here, we show that the CIP2A-TOPBP1 complex is recruited to mitotic DSB sites, where it directly interacts with Polθ and corecruits Polθ to chromatin. CIP2A sustains Polθ phosphorylation by inhibiting PP2A, thereby prolonging Polθ chromatin retention and enabling efficient repair. Upon repair completion, the CIP2A-TOPBP1 complex dissociates, PP2A dephosphorylates Polθ, and Polθ is released from chromatin. Loss of CIP2A impairs tumor growth, while disruption of CIP2A-Polθ binding leads to persistent DNA damage, micronucleus formation, and synthetic lethality in BRCA1/2-deficient cells. These findings uncover a cooperative mechanism by which CIP2A-TOPBP1 dynamically regulates Polθ in mitotic DSB repair and provide insights into the synthetic lethal interaction of CIP2A with BRCA1/2 under radiotherapy.
Dual-target c-Met/VEGFR kinase inhibitors have emerged as promising therapeutic agents for cancer therapy, although their underlying antitumor mechanisms remain poorly defined. In this study, we demonstrate that foretinib, a selective c-Met/VEGFR2 inhibitor, triggers immunogenic cell death (ICD) in colorectal cancer (CRC) cells. This process is characterized by the surface exposure of calreticulin (CRT) and extracellular secretion of ATP and high-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), which subsequently drives the maturation and activation of dendritic cells (DCs). Mechanistically, foretinib activates the p53 signaling pathway, thereby transcriptionally upregulating Death Receptor 5 (DR5), a critical mediator of the extrinsic apoptotic cascade. Furthermore, foretinib remodels the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) by facilitating DCs maturation and potentiating the infiltration and activation of T cells. Moreover, combined treatment with foretinib and anti-CD47 antibody exerts synergistic antitumor effects. Together, these findings uncover a previously unreported immunomodulatory function of c-Met/VEGFR2 inhibition, demonstrating that foretinib elicits potent anti-CRC efficacy via direct cytotoxicity and immunogenic regulation, and highlighting its considerable clinical therapeutic potential.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Endogenous and environmental exposures can induce mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) damage. Previous studies have shown that mtDNA is particularly vulnerable due to its proximity to mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the absence of histone-like protective proteins, both of which contribute to elevated levels of mtDNA damage. Base excision repair is a critical oxidative DNA damage repair pathway to reverse mitochondria genomic stability. In this work, we examined the impact and repair of ROS-induced DNA damage in the mtDNA due to lose of dRP layse activity of DNA polymerase beta (PolB). We used dRP lyase deficient DNA polymerase beta (PolB-dRP lyase) as a model to uncover the mechanism of mtDNA genomic instability and metabolic dysregulation. We have found that PolB-dRP lyase deficient cells significantly accumulate ROS, decrease mitochondrial encoding antioxidant genes, and low expression of genes involved in electron transport channels (ETC) including respiratory complexes I, II, III and IV. Further PolB-dRP lyase deficient cells exhibit a significant mtDNA damage and replication stress. Moreover, PolB-dRP lyase deficient stomach tissues of mice harbor a significant accumulation of ROS and alter mitochondria signaling pathways. Overall, this work highlights the molecular mechanism associated with PolB-dRP lyase function role in modulating ETC/ROS axis and maintaining mitochondrial DNA integrity.
Localized catalytic hairpin assembly (LCHA) circuit has emerged as a potential tool for intracellular bioimaging, yet its application is limited by uncontrolled signal leakage, insufficient cell specificity, and unreliable readouts.Herein, a triply activated LCHA (TA-LCHA) circuit was engineered by integrating an endogenous dual enzyme-guaranteed and analyte-stimulated strategy to enable robust tumor-cell-specific microRNA (miRNA) imaging. Initially, the TA-LCHA hairpin reactants were pre-blocked by incorporating the dual-enzyme recognition/cleavage site, inactivating their sensing function. Then, the miRNA sensing function of the blocked TA-LCHA reactants was specifically deblocked in tumor cells by two overexpressed enzymes, namely uracil DNA glycosylase (UDG) and apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease 1 (APE1). By virtue of the synergistic activation of endogenous UDG, APE1, and miRNA, this TA-LCHA circuit effectively reduced undesired signal leakage, achieving robust miRNA imaging with tumor cell specificity.The proposed TA-LCHA circuit represented a promising platform for precise biomolecules imaging in clinical diagnosis and biomedical applications.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Early diagnosis of HCC remains a clinical challenge, with survival strongly dependent on reliable biomarkers and translatable detection tools. Herein, we establish uracil-DNA glycosylase (UDG) and apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease 1 (APE1) as diagnostic biomarkers for early-stage HCC and develop a lock-open strategy based on an AND logic-gated, entropy-driven DNA nanowalker (ALEN) for highly sensitive detection of their enzymatic activities. ALEN integrates sequential UDG/APE1 processing with miR-21 gating to achieve on-track signal amplification. In the locked state, circuit leakage is minimized. Upon UDG/APE1 processing and miR-21 gating, ALEN is unlocked to initiate walker propagation, reactant regeneration, and spatially confined amplification selectively in tumor cells. This ability overcomes critical limitations of conventional entropy-driven DNA circuits, including low efficiency, limited turnover, and excessive leakage. When encapsulated in aptamer-functionalized lipid nanoparticles, ALEN gains robust biostability, biocompatibility, and HCC-specific accumulation. Using in vitro cellular models and in vivo mouse models of HCC, we confirmed that ALEN enables highly sensitive, cell type-specific discrimination of the activities of UDG and APE1, as well as timely and sensitive sensing of their dynamic fluctuations. Our results demonstrate that ALEN facilitates HCC diagnosis and monitoring of tumor progression, highlighting its promise as a clinical management tool.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
DNA base damage is the most common form of lesion, occurring approximately 10,000 times per cell a day. Such damage arises either from the incorporation of damaged nucleotides or from direct modification of bases within DNA strand. 5-hydroxymethyl-2´-deoxyuridine (5-hmdU) is a relatively common base lesion generated through the incorporation of oxidized thymidine or through the deamination of 5-hydroxymethyl-2´-deoxycytidine, a product produced during epigenetic regulatory process. However, the mechanisms underlying the repair and cellular tolerance to 5-hmdU have not been fully elucidated. Here, we explored genome maintenance factors required for cellular tolerance to 5-hmdU using a mutant cell collection deficient in individual genome maintenance factors derived from chicken DT40 cell line. We found that PARP1 is the most critical factor for cellular tolerance to 5-hmdU. PARP1-/- cells exhibited delayed replication fork progression following 5-hmdU exposure, indicating that DNA replication is acutely impaired upon 5-hmdU incorporation. Following the incorporation of 5-hmdU into nascent DNA, PARP1-deficient cells showed massive single strand breaks, which subsequently led to double strand breaks and ultimately apoptosis. Notably, these defects observed in PARP1-/- cells were completely rescued by the loss of SMUG1, a DNA glycosylase responsible for the removal of 5-hmdU from genome. These findings indicate that the SMUG1-dependent processing of 5-hmdU in nascent DNA is highly toxic in the absence of PARP1. Collectively, our results reveal a previously unappreciated role of PARP1 in counteracting toxic effects of SMUG1-mediated 5-hmdU processing during DNA replication.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy is the first-line treatment for colorectal cancer (CRC) patients, but its clinical efficacy is hindered by therapeutic resistance. Here, we demonstrate that DNA ligase 1 (LIG1) is highly expressed in CRC and impairs chemosensitivity, highlighting LIG1 as a promising therapeutic target. However, the mechanism by which targeting LIG1 enhances chemosensitivity to oxaliplatin remains incompletely defined, and no highly selective LIG1 inhibitors have been identified to date. In this study, a library of 1220 natural compounds was screened to identify LIG1 inhibitors. As a result, gambogenic acid (GNA) was identified as a selective LIG1-binding candidate followed by cell-based cytotoxicity assays. Subsequently, we show that GNA treatment markedly enhances oxaliplatin chemosensitivity in CRC cells, drug-tolerant persister (DTP) cells, organoids, and in vivo tumor models. Moreover, the combination of GNA with FOLFOX (oxaliplatin + 5-fluorouracil + calcium levofolinate) also improves tumor responsiveness to anti-PD-1 immunotherapy. Mechanistically, GNA combined with oxaliplatin triggers ZBP1-dependent PANoptosis. Further investigations unveil that GNA suppresses DNA repair by targeting LIG1, thereby enhancing the DNA damage response and ultimately promoting PANoptosis and immunogenic cell death (ICD), which establishes a mechanistic link between LIG1 inhibition and PANoptosis induction. Overall, our findings suggest that LIG1 can be explored as a key target for oxaliplatin chemosensitivity in CRC and targeting LIG1 by GNA may be a promising therapeutic strategy for augmenting the sensitivity of CRC cells to oxaliplatin and anti-PD-1 treatment.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Virus-like particles (VLPs) are promising for delivering genome editors, yet the in vivo in vivo efficacy of VLP-mediated cytosine base editing remains limited. Here we identified insufficient inhibition of uracil DNA glycosylases as the underlying mechanism of low cytosine base editor (CBE) editing efficiencies in vivo. We engineered a previously reported CBE, transformer base editor (tBE), and developed a VLP delivery system to enhance the recruitment of uracil DNA glycosylase inhibitor proteins. tBE-VLPs achieved robust C-to-T editing in mouse liver and retina. A single injection achieved, on average, 46.0% editing at mPcsk9 and 64.2% at mHpd in the liver, as well as 24.2% at mVegfa in the retinal pigment epithelium, resulting in marked therapeutic benefits in mouse disease models. tBE-VLP4 induced no detectable off-target edits in vitro or in vivo and demonstrated superior specificity compared to AAV or lipid nanoparticle mRNA delivery. Our work establishes tBE-VLP4 as a precise, efficient system for in vivo cytosine base editing.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.
Currently, DNA walker-based biosensors used for bioanalysis often suffer from limited amplification efficiency due to irreversible walker consumption and a restricted walking distance. Herein, we report an autonomous positive-feedback DNA walker biosensor for the ultrasensitive electrochemical detection of uracil-DNA glycosylase (UDG) and human alkyladenine DNA glycosylase (hAAG). The platform employs a single bifunctional hairpin probe that integrates target recognition and signal transduction. Through the synergistic action of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT) and exonuclease III (Exo III), a positive-feedback "cleavage-extension-recutting" loop is established, enabling continuous walker regeneration and signal amplification. Benefiting from this autonomous positive-feedback mechanism, the proposed biosensor achieves detection limits of 6.8 × 10-7 U/mL for UDG and 1.5 × 10-6 U/mL for hAAG, representing a reduction of over two orders of magnitude compared with conventional feed-forward DNA walker systems. The sensor exhibits excellent selectivity toward the target glycosylases over structurally similar enzymes and potential interferents, and shows recoveries ranging from 97.8% to 105.4% in serum spike-recovery tests. Furthermore, the platform successfully discriminates cancer cells from normal cells and differentiates serum samples from breast cancer patients and healthy individuals. These results demonstrate that the proposed autonomous positive-feedback DNA walker strategy holds great promise as a versatile and highly sensitive platform for DNA repair enzyme analysis and disease-related biomarker detection.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Radioresistance in colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a critical clinical challenge, with underlying mechanisms involving deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage repair, metabolic reprogramming, and immune evasion. Here, we employed multi-omics approaches, including ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing, proteomic profiling, and lactyl-proteomics of radioresistant CRC cell models, combined with co-immunoprecipitation, molecular docking, spatial transcriptomics, and single-cell RNA sequencing. Functional validation included production of an EF-hand domain family member D2 (EFHD2) lysine 9 (K9) lactylation-specific antibody, T cell and macrophage co-culture assays, and multiplex immunofluorescence analyses, performed in vitro and in vivo using immunocompetent and immunodeficient mice, alongside patient-derived rectal cancer samples collected from our institution. We found that hsa-let-7b-5p was significantly downregulated in radioresistant CRC cells and tissues, correlating with poor prognosis. Restoration of hsa-let-7b-5p inhibited EFHD2, impaired homologous recombination through reduced activation of RAD51 recombinase (RAD51) and replication protein A2 (RPA2), prolonged phosphorylated histone H2AX at serine 139 (γH2AX) foci persistence, and increased oxidative stress and apoptosis after radiation. Mechanistically, EFHD2 interacted with high mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), enhancing lactate metabolism via hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha (HIF-1α) stabilization, with K9 lactylation of EFHD2 being essential for its DNA repair function. Elevated EFHD2-driven lactate reshaped the tumor immune microenvironment by promoting M2 macrophage polarization, suppressing antigen presentation, activating nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) signaling, and upregulating programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1). Flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry revealed reduced CD4⁺/CD8⁺ T cell infiltration and increased forkhead box P3 positive (Foxp3⁺) regulatory T cells (Tregs) in EFHD2-high tumors, confirmed by spatial and single-cell transcriptomics showing immunosuppressive signatures. Importantly, combining EFHD2 knockdown with immune checkpoint blockade synergistically enhanced radiosensitivity and restored antitumor T cell responses. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that EFHD2 drives lactate-mediated immunosuppression and DNA repair to promote radioresistance in CRC, suggesting that targeting the EFHD2 axis may restore antitumor immunity and improve therapeutic outcomes.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) shows marked heterogeneity, limiting the effectiveness of traditional classifications. We integrated bulk transcriptomic data from TCGA and multicenter cohorts with spatial transcriptomics for in situ validation. Analysis of glucocorticoid (GC) and mitophagy pathways identified 127 core genes, enabling a novel molecular subtyping and survival risk model that predicted prognosis and correlated with immune infiltration. High mobility group AT-hook 1 (HMGA1) emerged as a key regulator of tumor metabolism, immune evasion, and therapy resistance. Spatial transcriptomics with RCTD-based deconvolution showed a tumor-enriched and heterogeneous HMGA1 expression pattern and a positive spatial association with epithelial cell proportion in tumor sections. Single-cell RNA-seq analysis further resolved HMGA1 enrichment to tumor epithelial cells, and CIBERSORTx projection linked the HMGA1-high tumor epithelial cell state to poor prognosis and increased proliferation. Functional assays showed that high HMGA1 expression conferred sensitivity to metabolic inhibitors but resistance to proteasome inhibitors, while HMGA1 knockout suppressed tumor growth and enhanced anti-PD-1 efficacy. By integrating bulk modeling with spatial validation, this study establishes a GC-mitophagy-based classification and highlights HMGA1 as a promising biomarker for prognostic stratification and personalized immunotherapy in LUAD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Species identification from highly degraded DNA remains a major challenge across ecology, conservation genetics, wildlife forensics, and museum science, where samples are often scarce, contaminated, and embedded in complex matrices. Under these conditions, standard reference-based and metagenomic classifiers are prone to false-positive assignments, particularly when ultra-fragmented DNA and conserved genomic regions are not explicitly accounted for. Here, we present a damage-aware next-generation sequencing (NGS) workflow for conservative species identification from minute quantities of highly degraded DNA, designed to minimize misclassification in low-input and damage-rich datasets. The workflow integrates micro-sampling, half-uracil-DNA-glycosylase (half-UDG) library preparation, PCR duplicate removal, multi-genome mapping against a curated reference panel, and a post-mapping read-ubiquity classifier that distinguishes species-specific reads from those shared across conserved loci. Using collagen-rich substrates as a proof-of-concept, we demonstrated accurate species attribution from samples as small as 1 mm2, including mixtures and mineral-containing matrices. The workflow reliably identifies dominant biological sources, reduces false-positive assignments driven by conserved genomic regions, and remains robust to common physical and chemical treatments such as swelling, heating, and plaster addition. Overall, this study provides a proof-of-concept framework for conservative species identification in challenging degraded DNA contexts. The workflow may be adaptable to a broader range of degraded DNA contexts-including wildlife monitoring, regulatory enforcement, forensic investigations, and the analysis of processed biological materials-although further validation across diverse matrices will be required.© 2026. The Author(s).
Herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) is a member of alphaherpesvirus that can cause some important human diseases, and type I interferon (IFN-I)-mediated antiviral effect plays a vital role in the innate immune response, whereas this reaction can be negatively regulated by some HSV-1 encoded proteins. However, it remains unknown whether additional HSV-1 factors contribute to this process. Here, we found that the HSV-1 encoded uracil-DNA glycosylase, UL2, can inhibit Sendai virus (SeV)-induced IFN-β activity. Mechanically, UL2 interacts with the components of RIG-I-like receptor (RLR) signaling pathway, including TBK1 and activated IRF3. While UL2 does not affect the ubiquitination of TBK1 or IRF3, it rather hinders the SeV-stimulated phosphorylation of IRF3 at Ser396. Simultaneously, UL2 blocks the formation of IRF3 dimer and its nuclear translocation. Therefore, these results suggested a crucial connection between UL2 and IFN-β signaling pathway, which may take considerable role in the HSV-1 evasion of the host antiviral response.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
Promoting the M1 polarization of tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) is a promising strategy to reverse immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME), thereby facilitating tumor treatment. Herein, we develop a tumor treatment approach based on tumor cell supernatant (TCS) prepared via a photodynamic treatment strategy. Strikingly, TCS exhibits a robust ability in inducing the M1 polarization of macrophages compared to two other common types of cell lysates (obtained via freeze-thaw treatment and sonication), and such ability may be attributed to its high content of ribosomal proteins (e.g., 40S ribosomal protein S3), rather than the typical damage-associated molecular patterns (e.g., calreticulin and high mobility group box 1) released from the tumor cells due to the immunogenic cell death induced by photodynamic treatment. Subsequently, TCS is employed to fabricate a hydrogel loaded with a chemotherapeutic drug (denoted as drug@TCS hydrogel; drug = doxorubicin hydrochloride, cisplatin, or 5-fluorouracil). After intratumoral administration, the drug@TCS hydrogel can effectively promote the M1 polarization of TAMs and reverse the immunosuppressive TME, thus exhibiting a prominent tumor growth inhibition capacity. Therefore, such a supernatant may offer an efficacious approach to elevate tumor therapeutic efficacy via the M1 polarization of TAMs, and highlight the immunostimulatory function of the ribosomal proteins released from photodynamic treatment-treated tumor cells.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Parapneumonic effusion (PPE) exacerbation is associated with high morbidity and mortality in pneumonia patients. However, the molecular signatures underlying the progression and severity of PPE remain poorly understood. We therefore employed whole-transcriptome profiling to comprehensively characterize the molecular landscape associated with PPE exacerbation and its clinical manifestations.In the discovery cohort, 26 PPE patients underwent capture-based targeted RNA sequencing and were stratified by disease severity into non-severe PPE (UPPE, n = 9) and severe PPE (n = 17), comprising CPPE (n = 12) and empyema (n = 5). Bioinformatic functional annotation was performed to delineate gene expression signatures associated with disease progression from non-severe to severe PPE. Integrated analyses of the transcriptome and secretome of pleural effusions identified high-mobility group box 2 (HMGB2) as a novel biomarker for severe PPE. In the validation cohort, 220 patients with different pleural effusion etiologies were enrolled for enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) analysis to evaluate HMGB2 levels. The functional relevance of HMGB2 in PPE progression was characterized in neutrophils and macrophages.In pneumonia patients, severe PPE was associated with higher expression of 232 genes and lower expression of 212 genes compared with non-severe PPE. Upregulated gene signatures associated with disease progression in severe PPE were enriched in neutrophil degranulation, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, HIF-1 signaling, and inflammatory response pathways. Elevated HMGB2 levels in severe PPE enabled accurate discrimination from other pleural effusion cases, with an AUC of 0.93. In vitro infection with Streptococcus pneumoniae significantly increased HMGB2, IL1β, and IL8 expression in neutrophils and macrophages. Moreover, HMGB2 overexpression enhanced NF-κB activation as well as IL-1β and IL-8 levels in PGN-stimulated macrophages. These results suggest that HMGB2 regulates IL-1β and IL-8 via the NF-κB signaling pathway.Our study delineates molecular signatures driving PPE exacerbation and highlights HMGB2 as a novel biomarker and therapeutic target with potential to prevent severe PPE.© 2026. The Author(s).
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is the most common subtype of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Although standard immunochemotherapy is available, 30%-40% of patients develop refractory or relapsed disease, underscoring the need to elucidate the underlying mechanisms of therapy resistance. High mobility group box 2 (HMGB2) is overexpressed in DLBCL; however, its role in the pathogenesis of DLBCL and in mediating therapy resistance remains unclear.HMGB2 expression and prognostic value in DLBCL were analyzed using public databases, validated by quantitative reverse transcription-PCR and western blot analysis. In vivo and in vitro HMGB2 knockdown models were constructed to explore its role in DLBCL. Macrophage-DLBCL co-culture systems were established to investigate HMGB2-mediated macrophage polarization. Transcriptome sequencing was performed to identify downstream targets of HMGB2, with molecular mechanisms confirmed by western blot analysis, co-immunoprecipitation, and immunofluorescence. Exosome isolation and protease protection assays were used to determine the HMGB2 secretion pathway.HMGB2 is overexpressed in DLBCL and correlates with poor prognosis. While HMGB2 knockdown showed no cell-intrinsic effects in vitro, it significantly suppressed tumor progression in vivo by remodeling the tumor microenvironment. We identified a novel mechanism whereby exosomal HMGB2 derived from DLBCL cells upregulates the E3 ubiquitin ligase tripartite motif containing 65 (TRIM65) in macrophages, promoting ubiquitin-mediated degradation of the NOD-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome. This cascade drives M2-like macrophage polarization and impairs phagocytic function. Therapeutic targeting of this axis restored macrophage phagocytosis and synergized with CD20 immunotherapy to enhance its antitumor efficacy.Our study defines the HMGB2-TRIM65-NLRP3 axis as a pivotal immunosuppressive pathway in DLBCL. Targeting this axis represents a promising combinatory strategy to reprogram the tumor microenvironment and overcome therapy resistance.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301575
Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) play pivotal regulatory roles in mammalian male gametogenesis. Advances in high-throughput technologies have demonstrated that lncRNAs orchestrate robust, flexible, and context-specific gene regulatory networks through dynamic interactions with proteins, DNA, and RNA, modulating transcriptional and post-transcriptional processes. However, the mechanistic role of in situ lncRNA-mRNA interactions in spermatogonial stem cell (SSC) differentiation remains poorly understood.The differentially expressed transcripts, including lncRNA, mRNA and circRNA, were systematically identified through long RNA sequencing (LongRNA-seq). RNA-RNA in situ interactions were subsequently mapped using RNA in situ conformation sequencing (RIC-seq) technology. The Gm16751-Zhx3 interaction was validated using single-molecule fluorescence in situ hybridization (smFISH), coupled with RNA antisense purification followed by quantitative PCR (RAP-qPCR), and dual-luciferase reporter assay. Its functional impact on SSC differentiation was assessed via EdU staining, apoptosis assay, mRNA stability assay, RAP-qPCR, respectively. Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS) and RNA immunoprecipitation-qPCR (RIP-qPCR) were employed to screen and identify the RNA-binding protein (RBP) interacting with Gm16751 and Zhx3. Crosslinking immunoprecipitation followed by qPCR (CLIP-qPCR) further identified specific binding sequences. The regulation of RBP on the differentiation of SSC was verified using RAP-qPCR, RIP-qPCR, puromycin incorporation assay, and RNA stability assay.We employed RIC-seq and LongRNA-seq to systematically identify a functional interaction between lncRNA Gm16751 and Zhx3 mRNA during SSC differentiation, which was further visualized via a Circos plot. Mechanistically, we demonstrated that Gm16751 enhances the mRNA stability of Zhx3, thereby promoting SSC differentiation. Furthermore, mass spectrometry analysis revealed that RPS3 (Ribosomal Protein S3) serves as a critical RBP that bridges the interaction between Gm16751 and Zhx3, ultimately stabilizing Zhx3 mRNA and modulating SSC differentiation.Our study identified a novel lncRNA-mRNA interaction pair, Gm16751/Zhx3, which is mediated by RPS3 and facilitates the differentiation of SSC. This discovery provides important mechanistic insights into the regulation of male germ cell development and offers a new perspective for understanding molecular controls in spermatogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Compromised DNA integrity, including telomere attrition, has been linked to traumatic stress and early adversity. We investigated whether cumulative lifetime stress exposure is associated with telomere length and expression of key DNA repair genes, poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1) and X-ray repair cross complementing 1 (XRCC1), across two independent cohorts. In 65 postpartum women (cohort 1), childhood maltreatment (CM) and lifetime trauma exposure (LTE) were assessed using the Childhood Trauma Questionnaire and the Posttraumatic Diagnostic Scale event checklist. In 49 refugees and immigrants (cohort 2), trauma exposure was assessed using the Clinician-Administered PTSD Scale and the Vivo Checklist of War, Detention and Torture Events. Telomere length and gene expression were quantified in peripheral blood mononuclear cells using cohort-specific standard methods. In cohort 1, shorter telomeres were associated with higher PARP1 expression specifically in women with both CM and LTE, but not in those with lower cumulative stress exposure. Given the limited variance in stress exposure in this sample, we examined whether this pattern generalizes to a cohort with substantially higher and more heterogeneous trauma exposure. In cohort 2, shorter telomeres were consistently associated with higher expression of both PARP1 and XRCC1. These converging findings across independent cohorts suggest that cumulative lifetime stress exposure may be linked to altered DNA repair activity in the context of telomere maintenance, consistent with a model of stress-related allostatic load. While interpretation is limited by small sample sizes and methodological differences between cohorts, future studies in larger, longitudinal, and methodologically harmonized samples are needed to clarify underlying mechanisms and directionality.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
The activation of microglia in the epileptic brain is a complex process. As a mediator of the inflammatory response of microglia, the role of High Mobility Group Box 2 (HMGB2) in epilepsy is not well understood.We investigated the role of microglial HMGB2 in epilepsy, by knocking down HMGB2 using U6-loxP-stop-loxP-shRNA-HMGB2-EF1-ZsGreen (sh-HMGB2) in microglia-specific Cx3cr1-creERT2 mice. Behavioral tests and pathological examinations were utilized to assess brain damage in CX3CR1-Cre recombinase Enhanced by Tamoxifen 2 (Cx3cr1-creERT2) mice. Microglia from Cx3cr1-creERT2 mice in different treatment groups were extracted for transcriptome sequencing. In vitro, microglia isolated from Cx3cr1-creERT2 mice injected with AAV-sh-NC or AAV-sh-HMGB2 were stimulated with magnesium-free medium (MGF) to induce an epileptic model, without kainic acid (KA) induction. Astrocytes were stimulated with microglial culture medium (MCM) from different treatment groups to investigate the effect of microglial HMGB2 knockdown on astrocyte derived CCL2 expression.The results showed that HMGB2 was upregulated in the epileptic Cx3cr1-creERT2 mice. Knockdown of HMGB2 in microglia attenuated the degree of epilepsy and neurological damage, and inhibited microglia activation in Cx3cr1-creERT2 mice. HMGB2 knockdown increased the CD4+T content, while decreased the levels of CD8+T, CD3-CD56+, CD11b+CD45+, and Ly6G in the spleen and brain tissue of Cx3cr1-creERT2 mice. Additionally, the expression of CCL2 was reduced and CCL2 was co-localized with the astrocyte marker GFAP in HMGB2-knockdown microglia. In vitro experiments demonstrated that knockdown of HMGB2 reduced the levels of TNF α and IL-6, and increased the levels of IL-4 in MGF-induced microglia. Meanwhile, knockdown of HMGB2 significantly inhibited the level of astrocyte-derived CCL2 and reduced the number of migrating neutrophils. Transcriptomic results showed that knockdown of HMGB2 in microglia mainly affected signaling pathways involving in metabolism, synthesis of cellular structural components, and cellular communication transduction.Microglial HMGB2 knock down ameliorates brain damage in epileptic Cx3cr1-creERT2 mice by reducing the immune-inflammatory response mediated by astrocyte-derived CCL2.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
We examined neocortical pathology and interneuron degeneration in neonatal hypoxia-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE). Piglets in two age groups (2-3 or 7-10 days old, n = 4-12/group) underwent global cerebral hypoxia-ischemia (HI) or sham treatment. Piglets (2-3 days old) had epidural electrodes for continuous electroencephalography (cEEG) and were treated with hypothermia (HT) or remained at normothermia (NT). Older piglets, all NT, had scalp EEG. Piglets at both ages had seizures and survived for 1-7 days. Cortical damage was assessed by hematoxylin & eosin staining and immunohistochemistry; calretinin (CR), parvalbumin (PV), and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) interneurons (INs) were counted. Cell injury was assessed by DNA fragmentation and protein nitration. TAR DNA binding protein-43 (TDP43) and the DNA repair scaffold protein X-ray repair cross complementing-1 (XRCC1) were examined for degeneration mechanisms. Cortical layers 3 and 4 showed high vulnerability; damage emerged as isolated cells, focal and laminar, and distributed as panlaminar throughout different cortical regions that correlated with seizure burden. HT protected strongly against cortical damage. CR- and PV-INs were severely depleted in HI-NT piglets compared to sham. VIP INs appeared invulnerable. HT partially rescued the loss of INs. CR and PV formed nuclear and cytoplasmic inclusions that colocalized with TDP43 and XRCC1; co-immunoprecipitation identified interactions among these proteins, and tyrosine nitration of CR. CR and PV INs accumulated DNA single- and double-strand breaks and appeared as attritional apoptosis variants with proteinopathy. This cell death is identified as aggreosis. IN loss correlated with seizure presence. Postmortem human neonatal HIE cases had a similar loss of CR and PV INs and nuclear depletion of TDP43 in the neocortex. Thus, neonatal HIE causes the loss of neocortical inhibitory IN subtypes with vulnerabilities instructed by their intrinsic calcium-binding protein signature and by mechanisms consistent with toxic sequestration and the nuclear depletion of XRCC1 and TDP43 underlying DNA damage accumulation. Early inhibitory IN deletion could drive seizure evolution in HIE; TDP43 and XRCC1 could be therapeutic targets for neonatal HIE.
Exercise links with improved cancer outcomes following a diagnosis of primary breast cancer but experimental evidence and molecular mechanistic interrogation from preclinical studies are limited. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects, and dose‒response, of exercise in mouse models of breast cancer, as well as elucidate cancer cell extrinsic and intrinsic responses.Independent in vivo modeling was used to investigate the effects of exercise across distinct breast cancer models. Unbiased transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses, alongside cellular and proteomic interrogation, were used to determine tumor microenvironment (TME)- and cancer cell-specific effects.Exercise inhibited breast cancer growth and metastasis across multiple syngeneic mouse models compared to sham control. Tumor growth inhibition was independent of estrogen receptor status, and in the 4T1 model, exercise exerted non-dose-dependent effects. In the Met1 model, exercise decreased TME immune cell content, particularly tumor-associated macrophages, while promoting an activated anticancer innate immune cell gene signature. Concurrent in vivo cancer cell-intrinsic effects were characterized by broad transcriptomic reprogramming including downregulation of metabolic pathways and upregulation of pathways regulating proliferation and apoptosis. Whole tumor metabolomic analyses unveiled broad shifts including decreased nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) and lactate, as well as availability of biosynthetic precursors. Finally, in silico analyses identified TME ligands, such as High Mobility Group Box 2 (HMGB2) and Cardiotrophin-1 (CTF1) as candidate drivers of downstream gene expression changes in cancer cells.Exercise suppresses breast cancer progression, which occurs in conjunction with broad reprogramming of immune TME-cancer processes and their interaction.Copyright © 2026. Production and hosting by Elsevier B.V.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) is emerging as a leading cause of chronic liver disease. MTOR (mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase) complex 1 (MTORC1) is a potential therapeutic target, whereas suppression of total MTORC1 activity can lead to unwanted effects. Here, we found that byakangelicin (Bya), a natural compound, selectively inhibited MTORC1-mediated phosphorylation of TFEB (transcription factor EB), without affecting canonical MTORC1 substrates. Knockout of hepatic Tfeb blocked the alleviation effects of Bya on hepatic steatosis, inflammation, insulin resistance, and fibrosis in mice, while reintroduction of TFEB restored these effects. We identified Bya directly bound to MET370 and PHE552 of FLCN (folliculin), suppressing the function of the FLCN-FNIP1 (folliculin interacting protein 1)/FNIP2 complex, which in turn inhibited MTORC1-mediated cytoplasmic sequestration of TFEB. Mutation of FLCN (M370A and F552A) in the liver abolished Bya-induced protection against MASH. Thus, Bya is a promising therapeutic natural compound for MASH, and selective inhibition of MTORC1 is a potential approach to treat this disease.Abbreviations: aa, amino acids; AAV, adeno-associated virus; Bio, biotin; Bio-Bya, biotin-conjugated Bya; BSA, bovine serum albumin; BW, body weight; Bya, byakangelicin; CETSA, cellular thermal shift assay; CHIP-atlas, chromatin immunoprecipitation atlas; Cmax, maximum concentration; CQ, chloroquine; DARTS; drug affinity responsive target stability assay; EIF4EBP1/4E-BP1, eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; FBS, fetal bovine serum; FDA, food and drug administration; FIMO-JASPAR, find individual motif occurrences-JASPAR; FLCN, folliculin; FNIP1, folliculin interacting protein 1; GAP, GTPase-activating protein; GOT1/AST, glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1; GPT/ALT, glutamic-pyruvic transaminase; GTRD, gene transcription regulatory database; GTT, glucose tolerance test; H&E, hematoxylin and eosin; Hbonds, hydrogen bonds; HFD, high-fat diet; HFHC, high-fat and high-cholesterol; HOMA-IR, homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance; HSCs, hepatic stellate cells; IP, immunoprecipitation; ITT, insulin tolerance test; KD, dissociation constant; KEGG, kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes; KPBS, potassium phosphate-buffered saline; LC-MS/MS, liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry; LW/BW, liver-to-body weight ratio; MAP1LC3/LC3, microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MASH, metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis; MASLD, metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease; MCD, methionine and choline deficient; MST, microscale thermophoresis assay; MTOR, mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MTORC1, MTOR complex 1; ND, normal diet; NFKB/NF-κB, nuclear factor kappa B; NFKBIA/IKBA, NFKB inhibitor alpha; OP, oleate acid and palmitate acid; PBS, phosphate-buffered saline; PCA, principal component analysis; qRT-PCR, real-time quantitative PCR; RELA/p65, RELA proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; Res, resmetirom; Rg, radius of gyration; RMSD, root-mean-square deviation; RMSF, root-mean-square fluctuation; RPS3, ribosomal protein S3; RPS6KB1/S6K1, ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1; RRAGC, ras related GTP binding C; SASA, solvent-accessible surface area; SNRPD2, small nuclear ribonucleoprotein D2 polypeptide; SQSTM1/p62, sequestosome 1; T1/2, half-life; TFE3, transcription factor binding to IGHM enhancer 3; TFEB, transcription factor EB; TMEM192, transmembrane protein 192; VIM, vimentin; WT, wild-type.
Upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) is a rare subtype of urothelial malignancy associated with poor prognosis, particularly in advanced stages. Sex determining region-Y-related high mobility group box 2 (SOX2), a key transcription factor involved in the maintenance of cellular stemness, has been identified as a potential biomarker in multiple cancer types; however, its prognostic significance in UTUC remains unclear. The present study aimed to investigate the expression pattern of SOX2 in UTUC and examine its association with clinicopathological characteristics. Moreover, the present study aimed to evaluate the association of SOX2 with programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) and antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) targets, including Nectin-4 and trophoblast cell surface antigen 2, to explore potential therapeutic implications. A total of 87 patients with UTUC who underwent radical nephroureterectomy were retrospectively analyzed. SOX2 expression was assessed using immunohistochemistry with a 10% cut-off value. Notably, SOX2 expression was detected in 24% (21/87) of cases. No significant associations were observed between SOX2 expression and clinicopathological parameters, molecular subtypes, or the expression of PD-L1 and ADC targets, except for hydronephrosis grade. Patients with SOX2-positive tumors exhibited significantly worse overall survival (OS), cancer-specific survival (CSS) and recurrence-free survival (RFS; P=0.004, P=0.005 and P=0.011, respectively) during a median follow-up period of 39.3 months. The 5-year CSS rates were 69% in the SOX2-negative group and 43% in the SOX2-positive group. Multivariate analysis identified SOX2 expression as an independent prognostic factor for CSS (P=0.001). Among patients who did not receive perioperative chemotherapy, those with SOX2-positive tumors demonstrated significantly poorer OS, CSS and RFS, compared with SOX2-negative patients. These findings indicated that SOX2 expression represents an independent and robust prognostic biomarker in UTUC, identifying a biologically distinct high-risk subgroup with unfavorable clinical outcomes. The preserved expression of PD-L1 and ADC targets in this subgroup may suggest potential responsiveness to immune checkpoint inhibitors and ADC-based therapies, supporting the consideration of intensified perioperative or systemic treatment strategies in SOX2-positive patients.Copyright: © 2026 Yasukawa et al.
The metal-organic framework (MOF) material ZIF-8 was used as a nanocarrier to construct a platform capable of simultaneously delivering L-arginine and functional nucleic acid molecules. This system enables real-time monitoring of the spatial displacement of apoptosis-related enzymes as well as monitoring of the early stages of apoptosis during NO-mediated tumor therapy. ZIF-8 exhibits excellent biocompatibility and acid sensitivity, allowing it to degrade in the tumor microenvironment and release its functional molecules. In this platform, L-arginine and functional nucleic acid molecules that specifically recognize the Apurinic/Apyrimidinic Endodeoxyribonuclease 1 (APE1) enzyme (including initiator strand IND, hairpin probes H1 and H2, and H2 labeled with Cy 5 and BHQ-2) were co-packaged into ZIF-8 in a single step for the first time, forming DNA/L-Arg@ZIF-8 nanoprobes. Inside cells, L-arginine is catalyzed by endogenous NO synthase to produce nitric oxide (NO), which induces APE1 to transport from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. APE1 specifically recognizes and cleaves the AP site in the molecular probe, releasing IND, triggering the catalytic hairpin assembly (CHA) reaction, and restoring FRET fluorescence signals, thus enabling the visualization of APE1's spatial displacement during apoptosis. In vivo results verified that DNA/L-Arg@ZIF-8 can effectively suppress tumor growth. More importantly, this nanosystem enables the prediction of therapeutic response in advance. This system not only achieves the synergistic delivery of NO donors and signal probes but also provides a dynamic monitoring method for the NO-induced apoptosis mechanism.
Apurinic/apyrimidinic endodeoxyribonuclease 1 (APE1) is a key enzyme in the base excision repair pathway, responsible for processing abasic (AP) sites. Recent studies revealed that APE1 participates in repairing DNA secondary structures as G-quadruplexes (G4). Telomeres, stabilized by shelterin proteins, are rich in G4, where APE1 binds and repairs AP-sites to maintain telomere integrity. The G4-complementary, cytosine-rich strand forms the i-motif (iM) structure, essential for telomere maintenance, though its repair mechanism remains unclear. Herein, we investigated APE1 binding and processing capabilities toward native and damaged telomeric iM, bearing AP-sites in different positions. Using biochemical and biophysical assays, we found that APE1 binds the telomeric iM sequence and that its cleavage efficiency depends on AP-site position within iM. Proximity ligation assay analysis, in HeLa and U2OS cells, highlighted a novel interaction between APE1 and PCBP1, a well-known iM-folding modulator. PCBP1 binds iM with higher affinity than APE1 and inhibits its cleavage activity on damaged iM. Immunofluorescence and telomere restriction fragment analyses showed that depletion of APE1 or PCBP1 impairs their interaction with the shelterin components, affecting telomere length. These results connect APE1 canonical DNA repair activity with the maintenance of non-canonical DNA secondary structures in telomeres, through its interaction with PCBP1.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
The incidence of esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) is rapidly increasing in Western countries. Gastroesophageal reflux, containing acidic bile salts (ABS), is the main risk factor for EAC. Cancer cells develop adaptive abilities to recalibrate redox balance via hijacking the antioxidant systems to maintain reactive oxygen species (ROS) below lethal levels. We investigated the role of PRDX2 and its regulation in EAC chemoresistance under reflux conditions.We analyzed public databases to identify PRDX2's aberrant overexpression and potential role in chemoresistance in EAC. To model acute and chronic GERD in vitro, we applied transient and repeated ABS exposures. Using 2D and 3D organotypic culture models of EAC cells, we investigated PRDX2's anti-ferroptosis, pro-chemoresistance functions, and regulatory mechanisms. In addition, we also utilized patient derived organoids and xenografts, cell line-derived xenografts, and human EAC tissue microarrays.Aberrant expression of PRDX2 was detected in both human EAC tissues and cell lines under ABS exposure. PRDX2 was regulated via an APE1-redox-dependent transcription activation of NF-kB. The knockdown of PRDX2 impaired the recovery of EAC cells from ABS-induced ROS and ROS-dependent lipid peroxidation. Silencing PRDX2 sensitized the chemo-resistant EAC cells to oxaliplatin by enhancing ferroptosis. Mechanistically, we found that PRDX2 inhibits ferroptosis by stabilizing GPX4, a crucial ferroptosis suppressor. PRDX2 enhances GPX4 stability through OTUB1-dependent deubiquitination, preventing its degradation. The APE1-redox inhibitor APX2009 significantly sensitized EAC cells to oxaliplatin by downregulating PRDX2 and inducing ferroptosis. Importantly, the combination of oxaliplatin and APX2009 showed synergistic tumor-suppressive effects in xenograft models.Our findings revealed a novel link between reflux-induced redox rebalance and ferroptosis-related chemoresistance in EAC via APE1-redox/NF-kB/PRDX2/OUTB1/GPX4 signaling cascade. Targeting redox with APE1-redox-specific inhibitors is a potential novel strategy for drug combination in refractory EAC, via inhibition of PRDX2.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
α-Globin triplication increases α/non-α-chain imbalance and may lead to a symptomatic β-thalassemia carrier. We describe a novel, de novo large segmental duplication, ααα102 in a patient who is a β-thalassemia IVS 1-1 (G > T) (HBB:c0.92 + 1G > T) carrier and presented with thalassemia intermedia. The duplication spans from intron II, position 203 of the N-methylpurine DNA glycosylase (MPG) gene, to the downstream region of the Hemoglobin Subunit Theta 1 (HBQ1) gene (GRCh38.p14) (HGVS NC_000016.10:g.79903_181947dup). The heterozygous β-thalassemia IVS 1-1 (G > T) was inherited from the father, while the mother was negative for thalassemia. α-MLPA analysis revealed multiple polymorphisms in the father; however, neither parent had the duplication. We concluded that the segmental duplication occurred de novo. In pre-marital screening programs, α-triplications and duplicated α-globin loci should be investigated when one partner has β-thalassemia or a β-thalassemia carrier.
Apurinic/apyrimidinic endodeoxyribonuclease 1 (APE1) is a multifunctional protein involved in DNA repair, transcriptional regulation, and redox signaling, which significantly contributes to cancer progression and chemoresistance. Recent studies revealed a new role in RNA metabolism, specifically influencing the processing of some onco-microRNAs (miRs). The interaction of APE1 with AU-rich element RNA-binding protein 1 (AUF1) is crucial in regulating RNA stability under oxidative stress conditions. Our research shows that APE1 and AUF1 bind pre-miR-221, preferentially once oxidized, thus affecting miR-221 maturation and impacting gene transcription, such as the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27Kip1, which is essential for tumor suppression and cell cycle regulation. Moreover, we identified a 13-miR signature, comprising miRs regulated by both APE1 and AUF1, that exhibits strong prognostic value in cervical cancer. These findings suggest a novel potential role of both APE1 and AUF1 as therapeutic targets in cervical cancer.© 2026 The Author(s). FEBS Open Bio published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Current base editors act on a maximum of two base substrates and generate limited base conversions or transversions, hindering their applicability for inducing DNA sequence diversity. Here, we engineered a triple base editor (named ACG-BEs) using a fusion of adenine base editor with high A/C catalytic activity and evolved N-methylpurine DNA glycosylase. ACG-BEs enables efficient, multiplexed saturation mutagenesis across adenine (A), cytosine (C), and guanine (G), achieving conversion efficiencies of up to 80.5% for A-to-G/C/T, 75.8% for C-to-T/G/A, and 63.4% for G-to-C/T/A in HEK293T cells. Leveraging ACG-BEs, we identify novel mutations in the HBG1/2 promoter region that confer efficient activation of γ-globin expression in HUDEP-2 cells-a promising advancement for therapeutic strategies targeting hemoglobinopathies. These findings highlight ACG-BEs as a cutting-edge platform for multiplexed saturation mutagenesis, offering broad applications in genetic screening and therapeutic base mutation introduction through enhanced DNA sequence diversity.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
The mechanisms by which tumor-associated macrophages, key components of the glioblastoma (GBM) microenvironment, impair chemotherapy efficacy remain poorly understood. Resistance to temozolomide (TMZ), the standard chemotherapeutic agent for GBM, is associated with poor prognosis due to efficient DNA repair mechanisms. While low expression of the DNA repair enzyme O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) has been linked to improved TMZ response, our previous findings suggest that N-methylpurine-DNA glycosylase (MPG) may also contribute to chemoresistance in GBM. Here, we report for the first time that conditioned medium from pro-inflammatory macrophages (CM-M1) enhances TMZ cytotoxicity by suppressing STAT3 phosphorylation, resulting in decreased MGMT and MPG expression in GBM cells. Proteomic profiling of CM-M1 revealed a unique, cytokine-rich secretome that may promote STAT1 activation, thereby inhibiting pSTAT3 and reducing DNA repair enzymes levels. Clinically, elevated MGMT and MPG protein levels were associated with increased pSTAT3 in our GBM patient cohort, and analysis of the TCGA database further showed that their combined overexpression correlates with significantly reduced progression-free survival. Gene silencing experiments confirmed the contribution of both enzymes to TMZ resistance, with dual knockdown producing a synergistic sensitizing effect. These findings uncover a novel mechanism of macrophage secretome-mediated chemoresistance and support the development of M1-based strategies to improve TMZ efficacy in GBM.© 2025. The Author(s).
The absence of effective early diagnostic biomarkers for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the main reason for its poor prognosis. To address this problem, we investigated and identified differentially expressed genes in HCC by integrating publicly available database resources with the transcriptomic sequencing data obtained by our research group. We initially identified 42 genes that were consistently upregulated in advanced-stage HCC, giant HCC, and multifocal HCC. Among these genes, POLD1 (DNA polymerase delta 1 catalytic subunit) was considerably upregulated across all HCC subtypes analyzed, showing consistent overexpression compared to our RNA sequencing data. However, the role of POLD1 in HCC remains poorly understood, as does its expression pattern and functional relevance in other types of cancer. Using a panel of bioinformatics tools, we analyzed the expression and prognostic significance of POLD1 across multiple cancer tissues. We found that POLD1 is highly expressed in various malignancies and is associated with poor clinical outcomes, particularly liver cancer, where its expression is significantly negatively correlated with the survival of patients. These findings suggest a role for POLD1 in the progression of HCC. We validated the association between aberrant expression of POLD1 and adverse prognostic outcomes in cancer patients. Our results revealed that POLD1 plays an important role in the development of HCC and highlighted its potential as a novel diagnostic and therapeutic target in progressive HCC, offering valuable information that can be used to develop precision medicine strategies in oncology.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The development of engineered Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cell lines capable of long-term, stable, and efficient recombinant protein expression is essential for industrial biologics manufacturing. Traditional random integration is hindered by epigenetic silencing and position effects, while current site-specific strategies are restricted by a limited stable library. To address this, we established a screening strategy based on two core criteria for ideal loci: 1) the capacity for sustained exogenous protein expression and 2) minimal impact on host cell physiology. By analyzing chromosomal location and expression data from 52 known stable loci, we identified 3,152 highly expressed genes. Subsequent Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses excluded genes essential for core growth and metabolism, yielding 252 candidate sites. These were further refined to 25 ideal candidate loci by evaluating their betweenness centrality in a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network, prioritizing hubs with potential genomic stability. After 40 generations of continuous culture, the Enhanced Green Fluorescent Protein (EGFP)-positive rates of DNA ligase 4-like protein (LIG4), L-threonine 3-dehydrogenase, mitochondrial (LOC100759874), and alpha-aminoadipic semialdehyde synthase, mitochondrial (AASS), remained above 95%. This study established an orthogonal functional enrichment screening strategy, which significantly improved the discovery efficiency of stable expression sites in CHO cells and laid a foundation for constructing highly stable recombinant cell lines suitable for industrial production.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Mislocalization and aggregation of the DNA/RNA binding protein, TDP-43, is seen in most cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-frontotemporal dementia (ALS-FTD). Accumulating DNA damage in neurons is also a common feature of ALS-FTD. TDP-43 has several characterized roles in the regulation of the DNA damage response (DDR). This review systematically explored the relationship between TDP-43, DNA damage and the DNA damage response in various models of ALS-FTD, facilitating comparison of findings between studies using similar models. Twelve peer-reviewed papers, covering eight TDP-43 mutations out of nearly 40, were reviewed and five experimental models included: cell lines, patient-derived iPS cells, organoids, and rodent models, plus post-mortem cortex and spinal cord tissue from ALS-FTD patients. Across the studies and models, depletion of TDP-43 or ALS-linked mutations consistently increased genomic instability. Q331K-expressing cells showed a 2-3-fold reduction in DNA repair activity and a 4-6-fold increase in DDR activation, while TDP-43-depleted cells showed a 20-fold rise in double strand breaks. TDP-43 normally binds to damaged chromatin, participates in early DDR signaling and scaffolds core DNA damage repair factors, including Ku70, XRCC4 and DNA ligase 4. This systematic review and narrative synthesis sheds light on mechanisms that explain how TDP-43 dysfunction impairs genome maintenance. When TDP-43 is mislocalized, mutated or aggregated, these interactions are disrupted, resulting in impaired DNA repair. DNA damage is also caused by increasing R-loops, dysregulation of mismatch repair gene transcription, and sequestering of repair proteins into cytoplasmic inclusions. Upstream DNA damage can further drive TDP-43 mislocalisation, creating a feed-forward loop. Given the ubiquity of TDP-43 pathology across neurodegenerative diseases, targeting the DDR mechanisms affected by TDP-43 may offer new therapeutic opportunities.Copyright © 2026 Almalki, Salama, Taylor, Ahmed and Tuxworth.
DNA replication helicase/nuclease 2 (DNA2) is an evolutionarily conserved nuclease-helicase with known role in maintaining nuclear genome stability. However, its potential involvement in metabolic regulation and disease remains unclear. This study investigates the role of DNA2 in pancreatic β cell physiology and diabetes pathogenesis.β cell-specific DNA2 knockout mice (DNA2INS2-/-) were generated and fed either a chow diet (CD) or high-fat diet (HFD). Metabolic phenotyping, insulin secretion assays, transcriptomic profiling, mitochondrial function analysis, and ultrastructural imaging were performed. INS-1 cells were used to assess the functions of DNA2 in vitro through knockdown, overexpression and site-directed mutagenesis.DNA2INS2-/- mice exhibited normal metabolic profiles under CD, but developed severe hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia, insulin resistance, and ectopic lipid deposition upon HFD feeding. This phenotype was accompanied by increased β cell proliferation and glucose-stimulated insulin secretion. RNA sequencing revealed the dysregulation of mitochondrial regulatory genes in DNA2-deficient islets. Functional assays confirmed that DNA2 deletion enhanced mitochondrial ATP production and oxidative phosphorylation, whereas its overexpression suppressed mitochondrial activity. Domain-specific mutagenesis demonstrated that both nuclease and helicase activities are essential for DNA2-mediated metabolic regulation.Our findings identify DNA2 as a negative regulator of mitochondrial bioenergetics and insulin secretion in β cells. By limiting mitochondrial activity, DNA2 serves as a rheostat that prevents β cell overactivation during metabolic stress, thereby preserving systemic glucose homeostasis.Copyright © 2026 Xu, Tang, Yang, Ma, Tian and Fu.
Alternative Non-Homologous End Joining (Alt-NHEJ) DNA repair is considered a major player in cancer genomic instability. Here, we investigated cGAS-STING pathway as crucial node in the interplay between Alt-NHEJ repair and immune response, in the aim to discover novel therapeutic vulnerability in Multiple Myeloma (MM).  METHODS: In silico analyses were performed by querying publicly available MM datasets (GSE66293 and CoMMpass). Anti-proliferative activity was evaluated by CellTiter-Glo, while flow cytometry analysis was used to determine the apoptotic process, cell cycle, phagocytosis, micronuclei detection, Calreticulin and T-cell activation markers. Protein expression was detected by western blot of whole or fractioned protein extracts.By interrogating public MM datasets, a significant correlation between hyperactivation of cGAS-STING mRNA signature and poor PFS and OS in MM was observed. Indeed, Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) showed enrichment of DNA repair, TNFA signaling and oxidative phosphorylation in patients with cGAS-STING activation patients, associated to higher mRNA expression of DNA Ligase 3 (LIG3) and PARP1. On this basis, we evaluated the activity of Alt-NHEJ inhibitor Talazoparib (PARP1-inhibitor) on MM cell lines, focusing on their capability to modulate cGAS-STING pathway. We first detected a significant reduction of cell proliferation and the induction of apoptosis following Talazoparib treatment, which in turn induced DNA damage response and cell cycle blockade, and finally cGAS-STING pathway activation as result of PARP1-trapping into chromatin. Next, by performing co-culture experiments with healthy donor's peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), we finally demonstrated the induction of immunogenic cell death, which was abrogated in cGAS-knockout cells, underscoring the pathway's functional relevance.Taken together, our findings indicate that Alt-NHEJ inhibitors are potential immune-stimulating agents for MM with hyperactivation of cGAS-STING pathway, coherently with our working hypothesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
During the progression of severe sepsis, the oxidized mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) in macrophages is cleaved by flap-structure-specific endonuclease 1 (FEN1) into small fragments, which are subsequently released into the cytosol and extracellular space to activate multiple pro-inflammatory signaling pathways such as NLRP3 inflammasome, cGAS-STING, and TLR9-NF-κB. Herein, biomimetic nanocomplexes (NCs) partially cloaked with macrophage membrane (MM) are developed to efficiently deliver FEN1 siRNA (siFEN1) into macrophages for sepsis management. To construct the NCs, membrane-penetrating, helical polypeptide (PG) first condenses siFEN1 and forms the cationic inner core, which is further coated with MM. By optimizing the membrane protein/siFEN1 weight ratios, partial membrane coating can be achieved, which enables the formation of NCs with both enhanced serum stability and efficient macrophage uptake efficiency. After systemic administration in cecal ligation and puncture-induced sepsis mice, the NCs exhibit prolonged blood circulation time and effective accumulation to the inflamed tissues, facilitated by MM-mediated charge neutralization of the cationic nanocore and inflammation homing. Subsequently, the NCs are efficiently internalized by macrophages through the interaction between the partially exposed polycationic core and the target cell membranes, provoking robust FEN1 silencing to suppress mtDNA fragmentation and leakage. Consequently, the NCs effectively restore immune homeostasis in sepsis mice, thereby mitigating cytokine storm and alleviating multiple organ failure.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Knock-in efficiency via CRISPR/Cas9-based homology-directed repair (HDR) is low in lepidopteran insects due to predominance of knockout through non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) pathway. DNA ligase 4 (LIG4), a core protein of NHEJ complex and double-strand break (DSB) binding repair, is a promising target for enhancing HDR efficiency in diverse species. However, the role of Lig4 in modulating HDR efficiency in Plutella xylostella, a highly destructive pest of vegetable crops, remains unclear. The PxLig4 gene was identified from the P. xylostella genome with 4 conserved domains: ATP-dependent DNA ligase core-adenylation middle domain, ATP-dependent DNA ligase core‑adenylation N-terminal domain, ATP-dependent DNA ligase core‑adenylation C‑terminal domain, and BRCA1 C terminus domain. Multiple sequence alignment and phylogenetic analysis confirmed strong conservation of PxLig4 among Lepidoptera. Real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) analysis showed that PxLig4 was highly expressed in eggs, female adults, and male adults, particularly in the ovary, followed by the testis, fat body, and midgut tissues. A homozygous PxLig4 knockout line (ΔPxLig4) with a 2-bp deletion was successfully generated by using the CRISPR/Cas9 technique. ΔPxLig4 exhibited significant developmental and reproductive defects. A donor vector to knock in the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) gene at the eye color gene PxKmo was developed to assess knock-in efficiency. The knock-in efficiency in ΔPxLig4 was 2.86%, significantly higher than the 0.26% observed in the wild-type P. xylostella. These results implicate Lig4 as a supporting factor for NHEJ and demonstrate that suppression of PxLig4 enhances HDR efficiency in P. xylostella, providing a potential strategy to improve the efficiency of gene knock-in in insect pests.© 2025 Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences.
Germination of many crop species is improved by priming, which facilitates pre-germinative metabolism through controlled hydration. However, priming is often associated with reduced seed longevity. Here, a screen of Arabidopsis thaliana DNA repair mutants identified dna ligase 6 and dna ligase 4 (lig6lig4) seeds as most sensitive to ageing of primed seed. Genetic analysis of wild type and lig6lig4 mutants provided mechanistic insight into the link between DNA double strand break (DSB) repair and longevity of primed seeds. RNAseq analysis of naturally aged seeds demonstrated that, while the transcriptome changes in primed aged seeds mirrors the enhancement of germination, priming significantly activated the transcriptional response to chromosomal breaks and, in lig6lig4 mutant seed, greatly exacerbated programmed cell death. These results revealed that DSB repair is an important factor in promoting longevity of primed seed, further supported by the improved longevity of primed seeds with enhanced expression of LIG6. Collectively our findings establish the genetic requirement for LIG6 in longevity of primed seed and indicate that the reduced longevity of primed seeds is mitigated by DSB repair activities. These results provide insight into the molecular basis of the reduced longevity of primed seed, important for sustainable crop production under changing climates.© 2025 The Author(s). Plant, Cell & Environment published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The link between extrachromosomal DNA (ecDNA) and tumors has been well established, and its role in cancer is of increasing interest. While ecDNA is thought to originate from genomic instability, the molecular mechanisms driving DNA end ligation during ecDNA formation and the regulatory factors controlling its selective gene packaging remain unresolved. Here, using the multi-layer perceptron model, a series of imaging strategies in human cancer cells, and clinical chip verification, we demonstrate that ecDNA biogenesis depends on transcription factor Yin Yang 1 (YY1)-mediated DNA looping coupled with religation catalyzed by DNA ligase 3 (Lig3), a mechanism that extends existing models. Notably, PARylation-dependent acidic microenvironments mediated by the Lig3-YY1 complex play a critical role in the formation of Z-DNA, which potentially facilitates the fusion-religation process to drive ecDNA biogenesis. Furthermore, our findings establish PARP inhibitors as specific agents for ecDNA-targeted strategies in cancer therapy.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40706577 is a review article
Postmitotic neurons have high levels of methylated cytosine and its oxidized intermediates such as 5-hydroxymethylcytosine1. However, the functional relevance of these epigenetic modifications of DNA are poorly understood. Here we show that some cytidine analogues, such as cytarabine, cause DNA double-strand breaks during TET-mediated active 5-methylcytosine demethylation by interrupting TDG-dependent base excision repair. These double-strand breaks are frequently converted into deletions and translocations by DNA ligase 4. In vivo, Purkinje and Golgi cells in the cerebellum are the only neuronal populations that exhibit high levels of DNA damage due to cytarabine. In Purkinje cells, TET targets highly expressed gene bodies marked by enhancer-associated histone modifications. Many of these genes control movement coordination, which explains the long-recognized cerebellar neurotoxicity of cytarabine2. We show that other cytidine analogues, such as gemcitabine, cause only single-strand breaks in neurons, which are repaired by DNA ligase 3 with minimal toxicity. Our findings uncover a mechanistic link between TET-mediated DNA demethylation, base excision repair and gene expression in neurons. The results also provide a rational explanation for the different neurotoxicity profiles of an important class of antineoplastic agents.© 2025. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the US; foreign copyright protection may apply.
POLG (DNA polymerase γ catalytic subunit)-related mitochondrial diseases are among the most severe primary mitochondrial disorders and are characterized by progressive neurodegeneration with prominent dopaminergic involvement. However, the cell type-specific mechanisms linking mitochondrial DNA instability to neuronal vulnerability remain incompletely defined.Using patient-derived midbrain organoids and single-cell RNA sequencing, we investigated how POLG mutations alter mitochondrial and neuronal programs at subtype resolution. We analyzed dopaminergic neuronal populations and ventral midbrain neurons to define disease-associated transcriptional changes. To evaluate therapeutic improvement, POLG organoids were treated chronically with nicotinamide riboside (NR), followed by single-cell transcriptomic profiling and pathway enrichment analysis.POLG mutations induced a coordinated downregulation of genes associated with oxidative phosphorylation and synaptic signaling, particularly in terminally differentiated dopaminergic neurons. This transcriptional alteration involved genes encoding respiratory chain complexes I-V, mitochondrial translation machinery, and ATP synthase components, suggesting disruption of mitochondrial bioenergetic programs at the transcriptomic level. Among dopaminergic subtypes, DA2 neurons and ventral midbrain neurons showed the most pronounced transcriptional alterations, indicating maturation-dependent vulnerability. NR treatment was associated with altered expression of genes involved in oxidative phosphorylation, NADH dehydrogenase activity, respiratory chain assembly, and synaptic pathways. Following NR exposure, dopaminergic subpopulations exhibited changes in cell-type proportions and partial normalization of mitochondrial- and synaptic-related transcriptional programs.These findings identify transcriptional alterations in pathways related to mitochondrial respiration. The data further suggests that modulation of NAD⁺ metabolism is associated with transcriptional changes in mitochondrial and neuronal pathways in this disease context.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42220428 is a review article
UVB induces an epidermal damage response, including keratinocyte hyperplasia, immune cell infiltration, and the recruitment of follicular melanocyte stem cells to the interfollicular epidermis. In this study, we establish the oncofetal chromatin remodeling factor Hmga2 (high mobility group AT-hook 2) as a regulator of these phenotypes through a cAMP-driven process. In this study, we identify somatic tissue expression of Hmga2 in the basal layer of hyperplastic UVB-exposed keratinocytes. Loss of Hmga2 results in the near absence of epidermal hyperplasia, cutaneous neutrophil infiltration, and melanocyte stem cell migration to the interfollicular epidermis. RNA sequencing of UVB-exposed keratinocytes from wild-type and Hmga2 loss-of-function models reveals increased expression of Adora1 (adenosine A1 receptor), a negative regulator of cAMP. Administration of the cAMP pathway activator forskolin to Hmga2-/- animals is sufficient to rescue melanocyte stem cell migration, thus highlighting the Hmga2-cAMP axis as a regulator in the cutaneous UVB response.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Long-read sequencing has enabled precise measurements of highly repetitive centromeric satellites and their rapid divergence between species1-7. Large satellite arrays emerge from libraries of shorter arrays via stochastic expansions8,9, but understanding the selective pressures constraining such expansions remains a major challenge. Here, using the mouse "major" satellite as a model, we reveal reciprocal functional constraints between increasing satellite copy number and abundance of a conserved architectural protein in female meiosis. We show that HMGA2 (high mobility group AT-hook 2) is enriched at major satellite, and its expression correlates with major satellite copy number: both are high in Mus musculus compared to the closely related Mus spretus. To test functional constraints, we modulated HMGA2 abundance by depletion or overexpression and used a musculus/spretus hybrid to generate oocytes with intermediate HMGA2 expression and major satellite copy number. We find that HMGA2 depletion disrupts major satellite packaging in major satellite-rich musculus but not hybrid oocytes, indicating that increasing copy number requires high HMGA2 expression. Conversely, HMGA2 overexpression disrupts chromosome segregation in major satellite-poor spretus but not hybrid oocytes, indicating that high HMGA2 expression requires expanded major satellite arrays. Based on these results, we propose a co-evolution model in which satellite expansion is constrained by architectural protein abundance, whereas protein abundance is constrained reciprocally by satellite array size.
HMGA2, an oncoprotein associated with tumor progression and metastasis, is frequently overexpressed in various cancers. However, its specific role in epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-mutant non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the prognostic significance of High mobility group AT-hook 2 (HMGA2), its relationship with EGFR mutations, and its impact on tumor microenvironment (TME) dynamics to identify potential therapeutic targets.The expression of HMGA2 in different organ tissues and its relevance in NSCLC were examined via the Human Protein Atlas (HPA), Tumor Immune Estimation Resource (TIMER), and Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis (GEPIA) databases. Prognostic analysis was conducted via the Kaplan-Meier (KM) plotter database. HMGA2 protein expression across different subgroups was assessed via the (TIMER) and Assistant for Clinical Bioinformatics (ACLBI) databases. Survival analysis was carried out via R (4.2.1). Furthermore, Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and protein-protein interaction (PPI) analyses were performed to investigate potential pathways associated with HMGA2. The correlation between immune infiltration and HMGA2 expression in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) was analysed via The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. Western blot (WB) analysis was utilized to determine HMGA2 expression in LUAD cell lines.These results indicated that HMGA2 was upregulated in various malignant tumors, including LUAD and lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC), and is correlated with poor prognosis in LUAD patients. In LUAD, HMGA2 expression was associated with EGFR mutations, with elevated expression in EGFR-mutant (EGFRmut) LUAD linked to a worse prognosis. Additionally, HMGA2 was sensitive to multiple chemotherapy drugs and was involved in various cancer-related signalling pathways, such as extracellular matrix (ECM) receptor interactions, nitrogen metabolism, arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy, and complement and coagulation cascades. Analysis of immune infiltration suggested that HMGA2 was linked to the infiltration of diverse immune cells.In conclusion, HMGA2 expression is positively correlated with the EGFR mutation status, suggesting its potential as a diagnostic and prognostic marker for LUAD.© AME Publishing Company.
Lipoma is a benign tumor of adipose tissue, most often located in the subcutaneous tissue or deep soft tissues. It is usually solitary, slow-growing, and asymptomatic. Giant lipomas (≥10 cm or ≥1 kg) are rare and may cause compression of blood vessels and nerves, restricted mobility, and cosmetic deformity. Genetic predisposition is associated with mutations in genes such as High Mobility Group AT-hook 2 (HMGA2) and Domain-Containing Preferred Translocation Partner in Lipoma (LPP). Diagnosis is based on clinical examination and imaging, including ultrasonography, CT, and, in diagnostically equivocal cases, MRI. Suspicious cases are confirmed by histology to rule out malignant tumors.Patient O., 65 years old, was admitted to the surgical department with a giant lipoma of the right thigh, present for over 15 years and associated with discomfort, a feeling of heaviness, and cramps. On examination, a mass measuring 40 × 35 cm was detected, of soft-elastic consistency, painless, mobile, with no skin changes. Diagnostic work-up included ultrasonography (US), computed tomography (CT), and biopsy, confirming a benign lipoma. Planned surgical excision was performed under spinal anesthesia; the lipoma was completely removed. The excised mass measured 50 × 35 cm and weighed 5700 g. The surgery was uneventful, with a blood loss of 100 ml. The postoperative period was smooth; drains were removed on postoperative days 4-5, and sutures were removed on days 9-10. The patient was discharged in satisfactory condition, with complete wound healing and a recommendation for follow-up with a surgeon.Giant lipomas are rare but can cause compression of blood vessels and nerves, restricted mobility, and cosmetic discomfort. Their size and atypical course may mimic malignant tumors, necessitating thorough preoperative evaluation using MRI, histology, and, if necessary, genetic testing by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) for MDM2 (Mouse Double Minute 2) gene amplification. The primary and safest treatment remains radical surgical excision with preservation of anatomical structures. Small or cosmetically significant lipomas may be treated with less invasive methods, but giant forms require full surgical intervention to restore function and improve the patient's quality of life.Giant thigh lipomas require a comprehensive and carefully planned approach, including thorough diagnostic assessment and radical surgical intervention. Effective treatment results in sustained improvement of the patient's physical and psycho-emotional condition, reduction of pain, and restoration of quality of life, as reflected by a marked improvement in SF-36 and EQ-5D scores during long-term follow-up.
Chondrosarcoma (CHS) is a malignant bone tumor resistant to adjuvant treatment, with high-grade patients suffering an unfavorable prognosis. Therefore, a deeper insight into the tumor microenvironment is essential for developing effective treatments for advanced CHS. To decipher the cellular heterogeneity between CHS with differential malignancy and benign cartilage tumors, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) on clinical specimens of high- and low-grade CHS, endochondroma and paratumoral tissues. The findings of transcriptional characteristics were validated by the bioinformatics analyses of public bulk datasets. The role of markers of interest was further explored by histological staining, in vitro and in vivo experiments. The results demonstrated that neoplastic cells and stromal cells predominated in the CHS tumor microenvironment. High-grade CHS presented aggravated proliferation and angiogenesis characteristics in neoplastic cells. The in silico analysis and functional experiments identified HMGA2 as a regulator of these malignant phenotypes and an independent predictor of poor outcome. Tumor-associated endothelial cells (TA-ECs) in CHS demonstrated senescent yet aggressive phenotypes underpinned by HBEGF. Moreover, HCHS exhibited more prevalent cellular communications between neoplastic cells and TA-ECs mediated by SPP1 and EGF pathways, with SPP1 and HBEGF both predicting unfavorable prognosis. Mechanistically, HMGA2 induced neoplastic secretion of SPP1, which provoked endothelial senescence and HBEGF release. Our findings implicate malignant characteristics in neoplastic cells and endothelial senescence associated with the histological grade of CHS and underscore the potential value of HMGA2 and SPP1 as actionable therapeutic targetes for advanced patients.© 2026. The Author(s).
Effective therapies for liver fibrosis are lacking. The RNA-binding protein Lin28A is upregulated in human cirrhotic and mouse fibrotic livers, where it localizes to activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). HSCs-specific overexpression of Lin28A worsened carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced fibrosis in mice. In LX-2 and primary mouse HSCs, Lin28A knockdown suppressed activation and induced hallmarks of ferroptosis, including mitochondrial damage, lipid peroxidation, and glutathione depletion. Mechanistically, Lin28A repressed the maturation of let-7 microRNAs, leading to increased expression of its target, high-mobility group AT-hook 2 (HMGA2). HMGA2, alongside hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α), contributed to the downregulation of the ferroptosis defense proteins SLC7A11 and GPX4. Notably, the anti-fibrotic effects of the Lin28A inhibitor C1632 were dependent on ferroptosis induction, as co-treatment with ferrostatin-1 reversed its impact on HSCS activation and death. In vivo, C1632 treatment alleviated CCl4-induced liver fibrosis. These results identify Lin28A as a regulator of HSCS ferroptosis and a potential target for anti-fibrotic therapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The escalating crisis of antimicrobial resistance necessitates a paradigm shift toward host-directed therapies (HDTs) that circumvent pathogen evasion strategies. Here we show that the natural polyphenol resveratrol clears intracellular Salmonella typhimurium (S. typhimurium) by orchestrating a multipronged strategy involving Salmonella-containing vacuole (SCV) disruption via ERK1/2 inhibition to liberate bacteria for enhanced autophagic clearance, concurrently reversing pathogen-induced G2/M cell cycle arrest. We identify High Mobility Group AT-Hook 2 (HMGA2) as a critical, previously unrecognized host dependency factor essential for Salmonella-driven cell cycle manipulation, which resveratrol targets to restrict bacterial replication. Furthermore, we characterize a resveratrol derivative, RV15, with enhanced potency and a distinct target profile validated by cellular thermal shift assay and proteome-wide reverse docking. This work underscores the potential of multipronged host modulation to eliminate intracellular pathogens that evade conventional antibiotics.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Drosophila has long served as a powerful model for investigating locomotor behavior, using geotaxis assays to generate valuable insights into genetics, aging, and neurobiology. Nonetheless, mostly their use can be constrained by subjective scoring, modest thought, and challenges in reproducibility. We developed and validated an integrated hardware-software platform that enables automated, high-resolution locomotor analysis across 12 vials in parallel. The system integrates 3D-printed mechanical components, Raspberry Pi-based video acquisition, and programmable environmental controls to ensure standardized conditions. A deep learning pipeline segments vials with near-perfect accuracy (IoU > 0.95), while computer vision algorithms quantify climbing trajectories, velocity, and positional zone occupancy at 60 frames per second. The end-to-end workflow converts raw video into time-resolved metrics, supports sex-specific aggregation, and incorporates advanced statistical analyses, including Linear Mixed Effects regression, harmonic mean p-values, and Mann-Whitney U tests. Relative to manual scoring, this automated pipeline yields 2.8-fold faster processing and about 800-fold higher data density. Application of the platform uncovered reproducible phenotypes of multiple genotypes. For example, in circadian ClockOut mutation, males displayed progressive climbing deficits with age, whereas females-maintained age-resilient trajectories. Moreover, male ClockOut exhibited a reduced locomotor performance compared to age-matched control (w1118) males, however, female ClockOut showed subtle reduction in locomotor performance. Additionally, glial-specific knockdown of PoIG, encoding the DNA polymerase gamma catalytic subunit, revealed striking sex-dimorphic aging patterns: females outperformed controls at older age in Glaz driven and at younger age in Elav driven, while males exhibited some marked decline. To promote broad adoption, a user-friendly Python interface (Tkinter GUI) enables accessibility independent of computational expertise. Collectively, this standardized, high-throughput framework advances the resolution of genotype-, age-, and sex-dependent locomotor dynamics, offering new opportunities in aging, circadian biology, and neurodegeneration research.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42386138 is a review article
Breast cancer remains the second leading cause of cancer-related mortality among women, with triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) exhibiting a particularly poor 5-year prognosis. In this study, we have demonstrated that among genetic and pharmacologic perturbations targeting DNA replication, suppression of the DNA polymerase epsilon catalytic subunit (POLE) induced a potent, TNBC-specific gene expression signature enriched in inflammatory cytokines that are transcriptional targets of NF-κB. TNBC cells exhibited markedly higher levels of DNA damage and canonical NF-κB activation compared with luminal breast cancer cells. Notably, NF-κB activation in this context depended on the canonical component RELA but not on the noncanonical component RELB. Mechanistically, ataxia-telangiectasia mutated, stimulator of IFN genes, and retinoic acid-inducible gene I each contributed to NF-κB activation following POLE suppression. POLE suppression in an in vivo murine TNBC model led to cancer cell-intrinsic elimination of tumor burden and increased immune cell infiltration. Together, these findings support a model in which replication stress from POLE inhibition triggers robust NF-κB-mediated inflammation and immune microenvironment remodeling in TNBC and can independently trigger tumor eradication. These results suggest a potential therapeutic avenue for targeting POLE in TNBC.DNA replication protein POLE can be selectively targeted in triple-negative breast cancer to activate signaling pathways that increase expression of inflammatory genes dependent on canonical NF-κB signaling and to eradicate tumors.©2026 American Association for Cancer Research.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41425725 is a review article
Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is the most common subtype of kidney cancer with aggressive behavior and poor prognosis. Dysregulation of DNA replication and repair, including alterations in replication protein A1 (RPA1), replication factor C subunit 1 (RFC1), and DNA polymerase epsilon (POLE), may influence tumor biology and immune interactions. This study investigated the expression of these proteins in ccRCC and their associations with systemic inflammation, tumor immune microenvironment (TME), and prognosis.Immunohistochemical expression of RPA1, RFC1, and POLE was evaluated in 52 ccRCC and adjacent normal tissues, with correlations to clinical data and preoperative blood parameters. Transcriptomic data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and immune deconvolution analyses (TIMER2.0, ConsensusTME) validated findings and explored associations with immune infiltration and survival.Tumor tissues showed increased RPA1 and decreased RFC1 expression, while POLE was unchanged. Elevated RPA1 correlated with reduced systemic inflammation, while low RFC1 correlated with larger tumor size. High POLE levels associated with lower preoperative platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio and an inverse trend with T stage. TCGA data confirmed these findings, showing that low RPA1 and RFC1 predicted poorer outcomes, while reduced POLE and RFC4 were linked to improved survival. TIMER2.0 analysis revealed that high RPA1 and RFC1 expression was linked to increased macrophage and neutrophil infiltration, whereas high POLE to CD4+ T-cell infiltration. Notably, RPA1, RFC1, and POLE expression correlated with immune-checkpoint molecules (including PD-L1, VISTA, and CTLA-4), suggesting implications for immunotherapy responsiveness. Immune TME composition, as estimated by ConsensusTME, influenced survival outcomes, with replication protein expression modulating prognostic relevance of immune subpopulations.DNA replication proteins interact with systemic inflammation and the TME in ccRCC, supporting their role as biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2025 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
To investigate the role of nucleolar pre-rRNA processing protein NIP7 (NIP7) in maintaining the malignant phenotype of anaplastic thyroid cancer (ATC) and its molecular mechanisms.NIP7 expression in ATC tissues and its gene knock-out effects in ATC cells were analyzed using gene expression microarray (GSE33630), proteome database (IPX0008941000) and the Dependency Map database, respectively. Expression and localization of NIP7 in normal thyroid cells, papillary thyroid cancer cells, and ATC cells were detected by Western blotting. Small interfering RNA (siRNA) was transfected into ATC cells, and the knockdown efficiency of NIP7 was detected by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and Western blotting. Cell proliferation was assessed by CCK-8 assay, colony formation was evaluated by colony formation assay, and tumor growth was assessed by xenograft tumor model in nude mice. SUnSET (surface sensing of translation) assay combined with co-immunoprecipitation were employed to evaluate the effect of NIP7 silencing on ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2 C (UBE2C) translation. Finally, gene set enrichment analysis was used to identify shared pathways of NIP7 and UBE2C, which were validated by qRT-PCR.Compared with normal tissues and papillary thyroid cancer, NIP7 was significantly upregulated in ATC tissues, and had a gene knock-out fitness effect on different ATC cell lines. The relative protein levels of NIP7 in ATC cells were significantly higher than those in normal thyroid follicular cells, and the protein was mainly expressed in the nucleus. NIP7 silencing significantly inhibited cell proliferation and reduced colony formation. Xenograft tumor model showed that NIP7 knockdown significantly slowed down the growth of ATC xenograft, and the tumor volume and weight were significantly lower than those in the control group (all P<0.05). NIP7 silencing downregulated the protein level of UBE2C, but did not affect the expression of UBE2C mRNA. Compared to the control group, UBE2C silencing significantly inhibited ATC cells proliferation (P<0.01) and colony formation (P<0.05). UBE2C overexpression reversed the proliferation-inhibitory effect induced by NIP7 silencing (P<0.01). Gene set enrichment analysis indicated that NIP7 and UBE2C were both involved in DNA replication. NIP7 or UBE2C silencing could significantly downregulate the expression levels of DNA polymerase epsilon, catalytic subunit 2 and replication factor C4 in DNA replication pathway.NIP7 promotes ATC tumor growth by upregulating UBE2C to mediate DNA replication.
Anti-HER2 therapy is indicated for erb-b2 receptor tyrosine kinase 2 (ERBB2)-amplified/overexpressing endometrial carcinoma (EC). Mutations constitute another mode of ERBB2 activation, but only rare ERBB2-mutated ECs have been reported. We sought to characterize the clinicopathologic and genetic features of ERBB2-mutated EC. From an institutional cohort of 2638 ECs subjected to clinical tumor-normal panel sequencing, 69 (2.6%) with pathogenic ERBB2 mutation(s) were identified, of which 11 were also ERBB2-amplified. The most frequent ERBB2 hotspot mutations were V842I (38%) and R678Q (25%). ERBB2 mutations were clonal in 87% of evaluable cases. Immunohistochemistry revealed low HER2 protein expression in most ERBB2-mutated ECs (0/1+ in 66%, 2+ in 27%); all 3+ tumors (7.3%) were also ERBB2-amplified. Compared to ERBB2-wildtype ECs (with or without ERBB2 amplification), ERBB2-mutated/non-amplified ECs were enriched for the microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) and, to a lesser extent, DNA polymerase epsilon, catalytic subunit (POLE) molecular subtypes, and associated with high tumor mutational burden and low chromosomal instability. Survival outcomes were similar between patients with ERBB2-mutated/non-amplified versus wildtype EC, whereas ERBB2 amplification was associated with worse prognosis on univariate, but not multivariate, analyses. In conclusion, ERBB2 mutation defines a rare subgroup of ECs that is pathogenically distinct from ERBB2-wildtype and ERBB2-amplified ECs.© 2024 The Author(s). Molecular Oncology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Solitary fibrous tumors (SFTs) of the central nervous system represent a unique entity with limited data on best treatment practices.Here, we present a case of multiply recurrent central nervous system SFT treated with radiation and immunotherapy. Immunotherapy was chosen based on mutations of genes encoding DNA repair enzymes detected through next-generation sequencing of the tumor, DNA polymerase epsilon catalytic subunit ( POLE ) and mutL homolog 1. The use of radiation and immunotherapy led to slight shrinkage and no recurrence of the tumor for over 2 years.The presence of somatic DNA repair enzyme gene mutations in SFT may suggest a benefit from a combination of radiotherapy and immunotherapy. This may serve as a biomarker for guiding management in patients with this rare tumor.Copyright © 2024 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
The genetic heterogeneity of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations may affect clinical responses and outcomes to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs). This study aims to investigate the genomic factors that influence the efficacy and clinical outcomes of first-line, second-line and third-line treatments in NSCLC and explore the heterogeneity of resistance mechanisms.This real-world study comprised 65 patients with EGFR mutant NSCLC. Molecular alterations were detected using a customized DNA panel before and after administering targeted therapy. The efficacy and prognosis of each treatment line were evaluated.In first-generation EGFR-TKIs treatment, gefitinib showed favorable efficacy compared to icotinib and erlotinib, particularly in patients with EGFR L858R mutations. The resistance mechanisms to first-generation EGFR-TKIs varied among different EGFR mutation cohorts and different first-generation EGFR-TKIs. In second-line EGFR-TKIs treatment, EPH receptor A3 (EPHA3), IKAROS family zinc finger 1 (IKZF1), p21 (RAC1) activated kinase 5 (PAK5), DNA polymerase epsilon, catalytic subunit (POLE), RAD21 cohesin complex component (RAD21) and RNA binding motif protein 10 (RBM10) mutations were markedly associated with poorer progression-free survival (PFS). Notably, EPHA3, IKZF1 and RBM10 were identified as independent predictors of PFS. The mechanisms of osimertinib resistance exhibited heterogeneity, with a higher proportion of non-EGFR-dependent resistant mutations. In third-line treatments, the combination of osimertinib and anlotinib demonstrated superior efficacy compared to other regimens. Glutamate ionotropic receptor NMDA type subunit 2A (GRIN2A) mutation was an independent risk indicator of shorter OS following third-line treatments.Comprehending the tumor evolution in NSCLC is advantageous for assessing the efficacy and prognosis at each stage of treatment, providing valuable insights to guide personalized treatment decisions for patients.© 2024 Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Backgrounds: Liver hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common cancers worldwide, and POLE, playing an important role in maintaining genetic stability, is closely connected with cancer prognosis. This study aimed to explore the significance role of POLE in HCC prognosis, clinical treatment and tumor immune microenvironment based on large-scale multiply cohorts. Methods: First, we found that the expression of POLE was prominently higher in tumor tissues than in normal tissues, and was closely related to clinical stage, grade and patient outcomes. Second, we found that patients with high POLE expression had significantly aggressive progression, indicating effective predictive role of POLE expression for Asian, male, low-risk HCC patients. Additionally, POLE mutation frequency was detected in several datasets with available genomic-wide data. Results: 130 HCC samples from real-world Renji cohort were included to demonstrate that elevated POLE expression was significantly connected to the invasive progression and poor prognosis. More importantly, the expression of POLE was closely related to the anti-tumoral activity of immune cells and immune checkpoints expression, suggesting a bright prospect of POLE as a predictive biomarker in immunotherapy. Conclusion: In conclusion, this study revealed that high expression of POLE significantly correlated to the malignant progression, poor prognosis and anti-tumoral activity of immune cells in HCC. Thus, POLE could function as a biomarker for the early diagnosis, prognosis, immune-excluded tumor microenvironment and response to immunotherapy of HCC.© The author(s).
DNA replisome is a molecular complex that plays indispensable roles in normal DNA replication. IMAGE-I syndrome is a DNA replisome-associated genetic disease caused by biallelic mutations in the gene encoding DNA polymerase epsilon catalytic subunit 1 (POLE). However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain largely unresolved.The clinical manifestations in two patients with IMAGE-I syndrome were characterised. Whole-exome sequencing was performed and altered mRNA splicing and protein levels of POLE were determined. Subcellular localisation, cell cycle analysis and DNA replication stress were assessed using fibroblasts and peripheral blood from the patients and transfected cell lines to determine the functional significance of POLE mutations.Both patients presented with growth retardation, adrenal insufficiency, immunodeficiency and complicated diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. We identified three novel POLE mutations: namely, a deep intronic mutation, c.1226+234G>A, common in both patients, and missense (c.2593T>G) and in-frame deletion (c.711_713del) mutations in each patient. The unique deep intronic mutation produced aberrantly spliced mRNAs. All mutants showed significantly reduced, but not null, protein levels. Notably, the mutants showed severely diminished nuclear localisation, which was rescued by proteasome inhibitor treatment. Functional analysis revealed impairment of cell cycle progression and increase in the expression of phospho-H2A histone family member X in both patients.These findings provide new insights regarding the mechanism via which POLE mutants are highly susceptible to proteasome-dependent degradation in the nucleus, resulting in impaired DNA replication and cell cycle progression, a characteristic of DNA replisome-associated diseases.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2022. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.
Resistance to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and oxaliplatin (OXT) remains a major cause of treatment failure in colorectal cancer (CRC). Luteolin, a dietary flavonoid with anticancer properties, has shown therapeutic potential in various malignancies, but its effects on chemotherapy-resistant CRC remain poorly understood. In this study, we investigated whether luteolin restores chemosensitivity in 5-FU-resistant (SNUC5/5-FUR) and OXT-resistant (SNUC5/OXTR) CRC cells and explored the underlying molecular mechanisms. Luteolin reduced cell viability and induced apoptosis in both resistant cell lines. Mechanistically, luteolin suppressed β-catenin expression by downregulating ten-eleven translocation (TET) proteins, increasing DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) expression, enhancing CpG methylation, and reducing TET1 occupancy at the β-catenin promoter. Luteolin also decreased thymine DNA glycosylase (TDG) expression, disrupted the TET1/TDG interaction, and reduced TDG recruitment to the β-catenin promoter. Consistently, knockdown of either TET1 or TDG decreased β-catenin expression, while luteolin further enhanced apoptosis in siTET1-or siTDG-transfected resistant cells. Additionally, luteolin attenuated intracellular reactive oxygen species accumulation and potentiated the cytotoxic effects of 5-FU and OXT in resistant CRC cells. These findings demonstrate that luteolin reverses chemoresistance by suppressing the TET1/TDG-β-catenin axis through epigenetic regulation and modulation of intracellular redox homeostasis, supporting its potential as an adjuvant for CRC chemotherapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most prevalent malignant tumor of the central nervous system, featuring high heterogeneity and invasiveness. Proneural-mesenchymal transition (PMT) has garnered extensive attention as a crucial driving mechanism for glioblastoma invasion and progression; however, its molecular regulatory network remains ill-defined.The expression and prognostic significance of TAZ were analyzed using bioinformatics tools. The function of TAZ was evaluated using in vitro and in vivo experiments. MeDIP and McrBC analyses were used to investigate the effect of TDG on methylation levels in the WWTR1 promoter region. ChIP-qPCR and Luciferase reporter assays were used to evaluate the binding affinity of TEAD4 to the TDG promoter.Aberrantly expressed TAZ promotes PMT in GBM cells. Mechanistically, the high expression of TAZ is caused by thymine DNA glycosylase (TDG), which maintains the low methylation state of its promoter region. TDG is transcriptionally regulated by TAZ-TEAD4, forming a TAZ-TDG positive feedback loop that promotes PMT. Importantly, we confirmed the significant inhibitory effect of dual targeting of TAZ and TDG, both in vitro and in vivo.Our data strongly indicate that the self-amplifying TDG-TAZ loop represents a previously unrecognized key participant in the progression of glioblastoma (GBM) via PMT, suggesting that TAZ and TDG may serve as potential therapeutic targets for GBM.© 2026. The Author(s).
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) for early breast cancer is a systemic treatment administered before surgery to achieve regression of the primary lesion, perform breast-conserving surgery, if possible, and ensure long-term recurrence-free survival. The main aim of this study was to investigate the impact of NACT on the active DNA demethylation process and the relationship between the compounds involved in this path and disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) during a six-year follow-up.This study included 71 patients with breast cancer who were eligible for NACT consisting of 4 cycles of doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide regimens at doses of 60 mg/m2 and 600 mg/m2, respectively, on the first day every 21 days, as well as paclitaxel administered at a dose of 80 mg/m2 weekly for 12 weeks. Peripheral blood and urine samples were collected from breast cancer patients at four time points. Additionally, tissue samples from a breast cancer tumor and regional metastatic lymph nodes were collected during surgery. The levels of 5-methylcytosine (5-mCyt) and its derivatives in DNA and urine were determined via two-dimensional ultra-performance liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry (2D-UPLC-MS/MS). The qRT‒PCR technique was used to determine the transcript levels of the genes involved in active DNA demethylation.During chemotherapy, increases in the levels of 5-methyl-2'-deoxycytidine (5-mdC), 5-formyl-2'-deoxycytidine (5-fdC), and 5-carboxyl-2'-deoxycytidine (5-cadC) and decreases in the expression of genes encoding TET (ten-eleven translocation) proteins, TDG (thymine DNA glycosylase), and AID (activation-induced cytidine deaminase) were observed in peripheral blood leukocytes. The Kaplan‒Meier curves revealed that patients with a lower level of 5-mdC in leukocyte DNA and urine before NACT, higher levels of 5-cadC, and lower TDG expression in tumor cells after treatment had a more favorable prognosis. Furthermore, significant correlations were found between the levels of 5-fdC in the DNA of leukocytes, 5-cadC in DNA tumor cells, the expression of TET2, and decreased Ki-67 after NACT.Our results indicate that NACT can alter active DNA demethylation markers. Breast cancer patients with prolonged DFS had lower leukocyte 5-mdC and higher urinary 5-mdC levels before chemotherapy. Thus, assessing 5-mdC in these minimally invasive biospecimens may provide prognostic information for breast cancer patients undergoing NACT.© 2026. The Author(s).
Objective To examine the expression patterns,prognostic relevance,and immune regulatory functions of thymine DNA glycosylase (TDG) across a spectrum of cancer types,with a particular emphasis on its role in lung adenocarcinoma. Methods A comprehensive analysis was conducted using multiple bioinformatics databases to assess TDG expression levels in pan-cancer contexts,as well as its associations with prognosis and immune regulation.The expression and clinical relevance of TDG in lung adenocarcinoma were examined through online platforms such as UALCAN and BEST.Additionally,small interfering RNA targeting TDG was developed,and cell biological function assays were performed to determine the impact of TDG on cell functionality in lung adenocarcinoma.The LinkedOmics database was used to analyze the genes related to TDG and target kinases in lung adenocarcinoma,and their correlations with tumor status.The PRISM database was utilized to examine the correlation between TDG expression and clinical treatment response in lung adenocarcinoma. Results TDG was markedly overexpressed in a variety of cancers,including lung adenocarcinoma,papillary renal cell carcinoma,and gastric cancer (all P<0.001).It held potential as a prognostic biomarker for hepatocellular carcinoma,lung adenocarcinoma,and papillary renal cell carcinoma.The expression of TDG was intricately linked to immune cell infiltration and tumor heterogeneity.In the context of lung adenocarcinoma,the analysis using the TIMER algorithm revealed negative correlations between TDG expression and the infiltration levels of CD4+ T cells,dendritic cells,and B cells (all P<0.001).Furthermore,CIBERSORT analysis demonstrated that TDG expression was positively correlated with activated CD4+ memory T cells (P<0.001),neutrophils (P<0.001),resting NK cells (P<0.001),resting mast cells (P<0.001),M1 macrophages (P<0.001),M0 macrophages (P=0.014),and naive B cells (P<0.001),while it was negatively correlated with regulatory T cells (P<0.001),monocytes (P<0.001),activated mast cells (P<0.001),and memory B cells (P<0.001). Additionally,TDG expression was positively associated with tumor mutational burden (P<0.001),microsatellite instability (P=0.045),mutant-allele tumor heterogeneity (P=0.001),and tumor neoantigens (P<0.001) in lung adenocarcinoma.In lung adenocarcinoma,the expression of TDG was notably elevated in the tumor tissue compared with that in adjacent normal tissue (P<0.001).Male patients exhibited higher levels of TDG expression than female patients (P=0.002),and smokers demonstrated higher TDG expression than non-smokers (P<0.001).Furthermore,TDG expression was correlated with smoking cessation duration (P=0.014).Positive correlations were observed for TDG expression with both clinical T stage (P=0.003) and distant metastasis (P=0.012),while a negative correlation was found with patient prognosis (P=0.030).Furthermore,TDG emerged as an independent prognostic factor for lung adenocarcinoma.In vitro experiments revealed that silencing TDG inhibited the proliferation and migration of lung adenocarcinoma cells (both P<0.05).A correlation analysis between TDG-related genes and target kinases revealed that in lung adenocarcinoma,genes encoding aurora kinase A,cyclin-dependent kinase 2 and other enzymes exhibited positive correlations with TDG expression (all P<0.001).Furthermore,TDG expression demonstrated positive correlations with functional states including the cell cycle,DNA damage,and DNA repair processes (all P<0.001).In addition,the expression of TDG was correlated with the efficacy of treatment in the first course in clinical patients (P=0.007).Specifically,TDG expression levels were higher in the progressive disease group than in the stable disease group (P=0.016),and lower in the complete remission group than in the progressive disease group (P<0.001).Additionally,elevated TDG expression was associated with enhanced resistance to oxaliplatin (P<0.001),carmustine (P<0.001),and olaparib (P=0.004). Conclusion TDG serves as a potential prognostic biomarker,an immunotherapeutic target,and a oncogene in pan-cancer,with particular significance in lung adenocarcinoma.
Once considered rare byproducts of transcription, R-loops are now recognized as important regulators of various nuclear processes. In particular, evidence indicates a role for R-loops in regulating DNA methylation dynamics. R-loops have been shown to promote active DNA demethylation-the enzymatic reversal of 5-methylcytosine back into cytosine-by recruiting associated proteins, providing an attractive targeting mechanism. Nevertheless, many aspects of this process, including whether the associated proteins bind to and function on DNA within R-loops, remain to be substantiated. Herein, we demonstrate that thymine DNA glycosylase (TDG), a key enzyme in the active DNA demethylation pathway, binds to synthetic R-loop substrates in vitro and can excise DNA demethylation intermediates 5-formylcytosine (5fC) and 5-carboxycytosine (5caC) from DNA in DNA/RNA hybrids. We also show that R-loops confer strand-specific TDG activity at CpGs, potentially explaining the asymmetric distribution of 5fC/5caC at gene promoters. Furthermore, we provide important mechanistic insights into base excision on DNA/RNA hybrid duplexes using 19F NMR. Finally, our findings raise the possibility that TDG-R-loop interactions could occur in mammalian cells. Collectively, our results establish a biochemical mechanism by which 5fC/5caC can be removed from DNA within DNA/RNA hybrids, which has important implication for the role of R-loops during DNA demethylation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a highly lethal cancer, with chronic metabolic disorders increasing risk and severity. Prolonged exposure to altered metabolism changes specific metabolite levels, impacting epigenetic landscape contributing neoplastic lesion acquisition. This study examines the interplay between metabolism and epigenetics in dysmetabolic-driven PDAC tumorigenesis, exploiting LSL-KrasG12D;PDX-1-Cre mice (KC mice) exposed to high-fat diet (HFD) and KRAS-mutated human pancreatic ductal epithelial (HPDE) cells. Untargeted metabolomics of HFD-fed KC pancreata reveals altered free fatty acid and elevated S-adenosyl methionine levels during tumorigenesis. Targeted metabolomics shows increased succinate alongside reduced α-ketoglutarate levels. This imbalance suggests an epigenetic derangement, targeting DNA methylation. In KRAS-mutated HPDE cells exposed to altered metabolism, the DNA demethylation complex of ten-to-eleven-translocation methylcytosine 1 and thymine DNA glycosylase (TDG) is disrupted, leading to iterative cytosine modification and apurinic/apyrimidinic (AP) site accumulation. Succinate directly binds TDG at arginine 275, hyperactivating it and increasing AP site formation. This alteration combined with the methylation-prone metabolic environment, impairs the base excision repair pathway by hypermethylating and downmodulating DNA ligases LIG1 and LIG3. This predisposes to genomic instability and pancreatic preneoplastic lesion development. These findings uncover a metabolic-epigenetic axis in dysmetabolic PDAC, highlighting how metabolite-driven epigenetic changes compromise DNA repair and drive tumorigenesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41708971
DDMC (DEAE-dextran-MMA copolymer)/sncRNAs (a-miR-155, piR-30074, and miR-125b) complex completely cured mice with virus-induced sarcoma after cellular reprogramming treatment, transforming cancer cells into normal cells. Comparing the kinetics of the control with tumor growth inhibition (mm2) - which involves one intravenous injection or two - shows the same curvature and speed, so it is a soliton wave with a permanent shape and speed, and in the case of two intravenous injections, a faster soliton overcomes another without any change in shape. The signal transduction for this drug delivery system (DDS) should be the Hill Sigmoid type following the nonlinear Schrodinger energy transfer model, the sine-Gordon soliton model for pulse and the Fisher-Kolmogorov soliton model for mass transfer. We found that the cellular output/entry response of DDMCs/sncRNAs is more dependent on the soliton signal not losing energy and shape without blocking communication. The soliton-induced endoplasmic reticulum-mitochondria Ca2+ fluxes in chromosomes in the nucleus create epigenetic modifications on the 5-position of cytosine (5mC) by Tet enzymes and thymine DNA glycosylase (TDG) as a global intracellular reaction. Quantum mechanical equations show that soliton flux can provide epigenetic control of Ca2+ fluxes using the "induced fit model" Hill equation.
Thymine DNA glycosylase (TDG) is a multifaceted protein involved in base-excision repair, DNA demethylation and transcriptional regulation, with key roles in embryonic development and tumorigenesis. However, the mechanisms underlying its role in cancer progression and the therapeutic applications targeting TDG remain largely unknown. Here we demonstrate that targeting TDG induces synthetic lethality in p53-deficient cancers. We developed C-271, a first-in-class, small-molecule inhibitor that covalently binds to TDG, disrupting its DNA-binding capability. C-271 exhibits potent therapeutic efficacy in suppressing p53-deficient tumors. Mechanistically, TDG and p53 redundantly promote the transcription of DHX9, an RNA helicase that resolves double-stranded RNA (dsRNA). TDG inhibition in p53-deficient cancer cells leads to DHX9 downregulation and, thus, aberrant dsRNA accumulation, which activates the RIG-I/MDA5-MAVS sensing pathway, resulting in tumor suppression and enhanced antitumor immunity. These findings highlight the synthetic lethality between TDG and p53, positioning TDG inhibition as a promising therapeutic strategy for p53-deficient cancers.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.
5-Methylcytosine (5mC) is a common source of somatic mutations. Deamination of 5mC to thymine generates a G/T mismatch, which occurs spontaneously and must be repaired prior to DNA replication to avoid mutation. We generated genetically engineered mice and cell lines to define DNA repair pathways that protect against 5mC deamination. We observed a low background mutation rate in mouse bone marrow or colon, typically 0.2-0.5 CG > TG mutations/genome/day. This increased 3-7 fold in cells lacking the glycosylase methyl-binding domain 4 (Mbd4), one of the few glycosylases capable of excising thymine from G/T mismatches. We found no role for thymine DNA glycosylase (Tdg) in the repair of 5mC deamination in these tissues. Instead, our results flag potential cooperation between Mbd4 and the mismatch repair (MMR) complex MutSα (Msh6:Msh2), evident through elevated rates of CG > TG mutations in Msh6-deficient cells: 2.6-4.8 CG > TG mutations/genome/day in primary cells and 13.9 CG > TG mutations/genome/day in cell lines. Loss of Mbd4 results in a specific increase in DNA damage from 5mC deamination, whereas the broader functionality of MutSα explains why mutational signatures linked to Msh6 deficiency are more variable and reflect the replicative history of the cell. Our findings support the emerging view that MutSα has broader DNA repair activity outside of replication.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Human single-strand-selective monofunctional uracil DNA glycosylase 1 (hSMUG1) removes uracil, 5-hydroxymethyluracil (5hmU) and 5-fluorouracil (5FU) from DNA, thereby initiating the base excision repair (BER) process. hSMUG1 is important for maintaining genomic integrity and plays a significant role in cancer biology. Here, we present the structures of hSMUG1, including complexes with products (uracil and 5FU) and an enzyme-product complex of hSMUG1 with double-stranded DNA (dsDNA). Analysis of our hSMUG1-dsDNA complex reveals how uracil is flipped out of the dsDNA for excision and identifies key residues that we confirm to be critical for both DNA binding and enzymatic activity. Furthermore, our hSMUG1 substrate complexes, molecular dynamics simulations and neutron diffraction data suggest a mechanism by which the substrate uracil rotates following base excision. The structural and functional information presented here will be highly useful for the future development of inhibitors and/or activators targeting hSMUG1.© 2026. The Author(s).
5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) is a widely used chemotherapeutic agent whose incorporation into nucleic acid plays an essential role in its therapeutic efficacy. 5-FU induces severe reproductive toxicity, which has been shown to be reversible. However, the underlying mechanisms have not been fully elucidated. Since single-strand-selective monofunctional uracil-DNA glycosylase 1 (Smug1) is a key enzyme in the excision of 5-FU, we investigated its potential role in the reversible reproductive toxicity of 5-FU by integrating knockdown, overexpression and LC‒MS/MS approaches. 5-FU treatment increased Smug1 and Dkc1 expression but blocked rRNA maturation in preimplantation embryos. Smug1 knockdown inhibited Dkc1 expression and impaired rRNA maturation, leading to reduced preimplantation embryo development. In contrast, Smug1 overexpression alleviated the inhibitory effects of 5-FU on rRNA and oocyte maturation and partially rescued 5-FU-induced developmental defects in preimplantation embryos. LC‒MS/MS analysis further revealed that overexpression of Smug1 reduced the levels of RNA incorporated 5-FUrd, the metabolite of 5-FU, indicating that Smug1 potentially alleviates reproductive toxicity by excising 5-FU from RNA. Our findings revealed the active involvement of Smug1 in counteracting 5-FU-induced reproductive toxicity and provide valuable references for the development of new strategies to reduce the adverse effects of 5-FU.© 2025. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 33671338 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 33430019 is a review article
Sirtuin 6 (SIRT6) is a protein deacetylase and ribosyltransferase that is a vital hub for maintaining epigenetic homeostasis, regulating the transcriptome, and repairing DNA double stranded breaks (DSBs). Comprehensive proteomic profiling of the SIRT6 posttranslational landscape, however, remains elusive. The SIRT6 C-terminal domain contains multiple phosphorylation sites. We find that the presence and the use of these sites are strongly correlated with maximum lifespan across mammals. Subsequent biochemical and in silico analyses revealed that SIRT6 hyperphosphorylation enhances its interaction with PARP1. Mutating the T294 phosphorylation site in human fibroblasts led to decreased survival after oxidative stress in the phospho-null T294A and improved oxidative stress resistance in the phospho-mimetic T294E. Together, these results suggest SIRT6 C-terminal phosphorylation increases stress resistance and interaction with PARP1 and that this phosphorylation is more abundant in long-lived mammalian species.© 2026. The Author(s).
Angiotensin (Ang) II can cause podocyte injury and leads to chronic kidney disease (CKD), but the specific mechanism is not clear. In our previous study, we found that Ang II reduced the expression of cholesterol efflux associated molecule by regulating Sirtuin 6 (SIRT6), thereby inducing podocyte cholesterol accumulation and injury. However, the effect of SIRT6 on podocyte cholesterol synthesis is unclear. In this study, we evaluated the role of SIRT6 in the expression of cholesterol synthesis associated molecular sterol regulatory element-binding protein 2 (SREBP2), cholesterol content, and apoptosis levels in podocytes.Ang II-infused rat model was constructed. Cholesterol quantification was examined using a cholesterol quantitation kit. The expression of SIRT6 and SREBP2 were examined by western blot and immunofluorescence assay. The podocyte apoptotic level was detected by flow cytometry. Transfection of podocytes with pcDNA 3.1 SIRT6 plasmid and the deacetylase-inactive SIRT6 mutant plasmid (pcDNA 3.1 SIRT6 H133Y) was performed to investigate whether SIRT6 regulates SREBP2 expression and to further determine if this regulatory effect is dependent on SIRT6's deacetylase activity.Ang II promoted lipid droplet and cholesterol accumulation in rat glomeruli, suppressed SIRT6 expression, and enhanced SREBP2 activation, evidenced by increased SREBP2 levels and nuclear translocation. Transfection of pcDNA3.1SIRT6 into podocytes attenuated SREBP2 activation, reducing Ang II-induced cholesterol accumulation and apoptosis. Experiments using pcDNA3.1 SIRT6 and pcDNA3.1 SIRT6 H133Y plasmids indicate that SIRT6-mediated suppression of SREBP2 requires its histone deacetylase activity.We conclude that SIRT6 serves as a key protective regulator of podocytes against RAS activation, at least in part by suppressing SREBP2 expression and thereby alleviating cholesterol accumulation and associated podocyte injury. It provides a new target for clinical treatment of CKD.The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Osteoclasts, through their excessive production, are the primary cause of postmenopausal osteoporosis. However, the influence of metabolism on osteoclastogenesis remains poorly understood. This study reveals that protein lactylation plays a critical role in osteoclast differentiation.The ovariectomized (OVX) mouse model was used to investigate osteoporosis by examining glycolysis and lactate levels during osteoclast differentiation. Bone resorption was assessed through histomorphometric analysis. The effects of elevating lactate levels were tested both endogenously via exercise and exogenously through sodium lactate (NaLac) administration. Protein lactylation, focusing on histone modifications, was analyzed, and key osteoclastogenesis genes, including cathepsin K (Ctsk), matrix metalloproteinase 9 (Mmp9), and matrix metalloproteinase 12 (Mmp12), were quantified. The enzymes responsible for lactylation and delactylation were identified through cleavage under targets and tagmentation (CUT&Tag) and RNA-Seq analyses.Our findings showed that glycolysis and lactate levels were reduced during osteoclast differentiation in the OVX model, despite increased bone resorption. Elevating lactate through exercise or sodium lactate supplementation increased protein lactylation and mitigated OVX-induced bone loss. Mechanistically, lactate enhanced histone H3 lysine-18 lactylation (H3K18la), which suppressed osteoclast differentiation by downregulating key osteoclastogenesis genes like Ctsk, Mmp9, and Mmp12. Alanyl-tRNA synthetase 1 (AARS1) was identified as the lactylation "writer" that mediates H3K18la, with sirtuin 6 (SIRT6) acting as an "eraser" in a regulatory circuit.Lactate suppresses osteoclast differentiation and alleviates osteoporosis through histone H3K18 lactylation, which downregulates osteoclastogenic genes including Ctsk, Mmp9, and Mmp12. The dynamic regulation of H3K18la involves AARS1 as the lactylation "writer"and SIRT6 as an "eraser".This study reveals an epigenetic mechanism by which lactate regulates osteoclast function and suggests that exercise-induced lactate elevation or lactate supplementation may represent a viable therapeutic strategy for postmenopausal osteoporosis.© 2026 The Authors.
Intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD) is a common and challenging chronic condition in orthopedics, primarily characterized by the aging of nucleus pulposus cells (NPC). Current treatment strategies for IVDD, particularly those targeting NPC senescence, remain underdeveloped. Research has shown that NPC senescence is closely associated with mitochondrial damage, leading to the accumulation of cytoplasmic reactive oxygen species (ROS) and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). Mitochondrial autophagy, as a key mechanism of mitochondrial quality control, regulates ROS and mtDNA levels by eliminating dysfunctional and damaged mitochondria, thereby delaying cellular aging. Notably, mitophagy signaling associated with Sirtuin 6 (SIRT6) and PTEN-induced kinase 1 (PINK1)/Parkin has been implicated in this process. Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM), with its holistic approach and unique theoretical system of syndrome differentiation and treatment, offers significant advantages in preventing and treating degenerative diseases such as IVDD. However, research into TCM formulations aimed at NPC senescence remains limited. In preliminary studies, we observed that Nodakenin, the primary active compound from the TCM formula Duhuo Jisheng decoction (DHJSD), exerts protective effects in a SIRT6-associated manner and appears to be associated with activation of PINK1/Parkin-related mitophagy signaling. In this study, we used single-cell analysis to construct human NPC senescence and rat IVDD models, assessing mitochondrial morphology, mitochondrial membrane potential, cell senescence, and autophagy-related gene expression. We further evaluated the effects of Nodakenin (Nod) on H2O2-induced NPC senescence and determined the optimal intervention concentration, followed by assessment of mitochondrial phenotypes and SIRT6- and PINK1/Parkin-associated markers. These findings provide new theoretical support for the clinical application of TCM in the treatment of IVDD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) derived from human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (hUCMSCs) have emerged as promising therapeutic candidates for osteoarthritis (OA). Sirtuin 6 (SIRT6), a class III histone deacetylase, exerts protective effects by preventing cellular senescence, reducing inflammation, and promoting longevity. This study aims to generate immortalized hUCMSCs with SIRT6 and telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) overexpression and investigate the therapeutic potential of their secreted EVs (EVs@SIRT6) in OA.hUCMSCs were genetically engineered using lentiviral transduction to overexpress SIRT6 and TERT, referred to as SIRT6/TERT-hUCMSCs. Natural EVs and EVs@SIRT6 were isolated via differential ultracentrifugation and characterized by morphology, size distribution, marker expression, and proteomic signature. Their effects on IL-1β stimulated chondrocytes were assessed in vitro, including cell viability, apoptosis, scratch closure, inflammatory cytokine secretion, and oxidative stress. Transcriptomic alterations were analyzed by RNA sequencing. Therapeutic efficacy in vivo was evaluated in a rat anterior cruciate ligament transection (ACLT) model via micro-computed tomography, histological analyses, and immunohistochemistry.SIRT6/TERT-hUCMSCs preserved mesenchymal identity, trilineage differentiation potential, and sustained proliferative capacity up to passage 60, accompanied by longer telomeres and reduced senescence compared to parental cells. EVs@SIRT6 maintained typical EV features but were enriched in SIRT6 protein and displayed a distinct proteomic signature, comprising 1,440 unique proteins associated with nuclear/chromatin repair. In vitro, EVs@SIRT6 more effectively enhanced chondrocyte viability and wound healing while reducing apoptosis compared with natural EVs. EVs@SIRT6 also markedly alleviated inflammatory response, promoted anabolism, suppressed catabolism, and mitigated oxidative stress in chondrocytes. The protective effects of EVs@SIRT6 on chondrocytes were associated with the suppression of the JAK-STAT signaling pathway. Studies in a rat ACLT model further confirmed that EVs@SIRT6 outperformed natural EVs in attenuating subchondral osteosclerosis, reducing osteophyte formation, and mitigating cartilage damage.Engineered EVs@SIRT6 outperform natural EVs in preserving chondrocytes homeostasis and reducing OA progression, establishing an efficient platform for preparing engineered EVs for clinical application.© 2026. The Author(s).
The dynamic synthesis and removal of poly (ADP-ribose) (pADPr) by poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 and poly (ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase (PARG), respectively, is essential for the maintenance of genome integrity, particularly during DNA replication. However, the precise role of the pADPr-binding chromatin remodeler chromodomain helicase DNA binding protein 1-like (CHD1L) in resolving endogenous DNA damage remains unclear. Here, we identified CHD1L as a critical modulator of Okazaki fragment maturation. We demonstrated that CHD1L loss was synthetic lethal with severe inhibition of PARG. This synthetic lethality stemmed from the toxic accumulation of pADPr specifically in S-phase cells, originating from unprocessed Okazaki fragment intermediates. Rescue experiments confirmed that both the ATPase and pADPr-binding macrodomain of CHD1L were indispensable for preventing this toxic accumulation. Mechanistically, quantitative chromatin proteomics revealed that CHD1L deficiency caused the persistent and aberrant retention of single-strand break (SSB) repair factors and others including the E3 ubiquitin ligases RNF114 and DTX3L/PARP9, challenging the previous models that CHD1L loss would limit chromatin accessibility of DNA repair factors. These findings establish a novel housekeeping function for CHD1L in facilitating the efficient turnover of DNA repair factors at replication-associated SSBs.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
This study aimed to comparatively investigate the protective effects of Ashwagandha and Sertraline treatments on chronic stress-induced testicular damage and reproductive dysfunction in adolescent rats, through hormonal, biochemical, and apoptotic pathways. Twenty-eight adolescent male Wistar albino rats were divided into four groups: Control, Chronic Unpredictable Mild Stress (CUMS)-induced Depression, Depression+Sertraline, and Depression+Ashwagandha. Testicular testosterone and cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) levels, as well as oxidative stress markers and inflammatory cytokines in the testicular tissue, were measured. Johnsen scoring and H&E staining were performed to evaluate histopathological changes. Immunohistochemically, Bcl-2-associated X protein (Bax), B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2), marker of proliferation Ki-67 (Ki67), and Sirtuin 6 (SIRT6) antibodies were evaluated. Chronic stress exposure led to a significant decrease in testicular testosterone and cGMP levels, while causing an increase in oxidative stress and inflammation markers. Histopathological examinations revealed desquamation of the seminiferous tubule epithelium, tubular degeneration, and a severe reduction in the Johnsen score in the depression group. At the molecular level, it was observed that stress increased Bax expression and suppressed Bcl-2 expression. Ki67 and SIRT6 levels were decreased in the Depression group. Both treatment modalities increased Bcl-2, Ki67, and SIRT6 immunoreactivities. It was observed that the Bax/Bcl-2 ratio in the Ashwagandha group approached the levels of the control group. Both treatment methods alleviated oxidative, inflammatory, and apoptotic changes triggered by chronic stress in the testes of adolescent rats. Mitigating testosterone depletion and strengthening anti-apoptotic defense mechanisms, Ashwagandha provides more comprehensive protection compared to Sertraline. These findings suggest that Ashwagandha may serve as a potential phytotherapeutic supportive agent in mitigating stress-induced damage within the testicular tissue.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
In aquatic invertebrates, hemolymph is critical for host-environment interaction. Although maintaining microbial homeostasis in hemolymph is significant for disease pathogenesis, the key regulatory mechanisms remain elusive. This study investigates the essential role of the respiratory glycoprotein hemocyanin (HMC) in modulating hemolymph microbial composition in penaeid shrimp. Hemocyanin-depleted shrimp infected with Vibrio parahaemolyticus (Vp) exhibited disruptions in the niacinamide (NAM) salvage pathway, attenuated plasma niacinamide and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) levels, and reduced transcripts of key enzymes. These alterations correlated with an increased total bacterial load and a higher abundance of opportunistic pathogens like Vibrio and Shewanella. Hemocyanin likely modulates niacinamide metabolism through interactions with Litopenaeus vannamei nicotinamide riboside kinase 1 (LvNRK1), sirtuin 2 (LvSIRT2), and sirtuin 6 (LvSIRT6). Remarkably, niacinamide supplementation after hemocyanin knockdown restored hemolymph microbial balance, reduced Vibrio dominance, and improved shrimp survival against V. parahaemolyticus infection, but not Gram-positive Staphylococcus aureus (Sa). These findings provide novel insights into the pivotal role of niacinamide metabolism in regulating shrimp hemolymph microbial composition via hemocyanin.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the International Society for Microbial Ecology.
BACKGROUND: The occurrence of cardiovascular diseases increases dramatically in postmenopausal aged women. Accumulating evidence has indicated that estrogen protects hearts from cardiovascular diseases. However, the underlying mechanisms was not fully elucidated. This present study was designed to investigate the function of GPR30 in pathological heart failure of aged female mice with the focus of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs). METHODS: Transverse aortic constriction (TAC) surgery was performed to induce heart failure in aged female mice. RNA-seq and flow cytometry were employed to study neutrophils activity during heart failure of aged female mice. Heart function and cardiac fibrosis as well as NETs level were assessed. Reduction of NETs by DNase I administration、 G1 treatment and Trex1 overexpression in macrophage were conducted to elucidate the role of NETs in this pathological process. Co-culture of RAW264.7 macrophages and neutrophils were used to examine the function of Trex1 in macrophage. RESULTS: Our bulk RNA-seq analysis showed that neutrophil migration and neutrophil chemotaxis were markedly enhanced at the early stage of pathological cardiac hypertrophy in aged female hearts. We further demonstrated that NETs generated by these activated neutrophils in aged female myocardium at the late stage were significantly increased following TAC surgery accompanied with the reduction of GPR30 expression. GPR30 agonist G1 treatment preserved cardiac function and reduced myocardial fibrosis in aged female mice with heart failure. To further validate the key role of NETs, DNase I administration markedly enhanced cardiac performance and attenuated cardiac fibrosis with the overall neutrophil reduction in the myocardium. Our in vitro results showed that overexpression of Trex1 in RAW264.1 macrophage enhanced neutrophil NETs clearance, thus indicating that GPR30 activation could increase the exonuclease three prime repair exonuclease 1 (Trex1) expression which may be associated with the reduction of NETs level in hypertrophied hearts. CONCLUSION: NETs generated by neutrophils exacerbate pressure overload–induced heart failure in aged female mice. GPR30 activates Trex1 signaling in macrophage to enhance NTEs degradation and thus attenuates TAC-induced cardiac dysfunction, providing an avenue for the novel therapeutics against cardiac dysfunction in postmenopausal women.
Mutation rates often rise under environmental stress, a process known as stress-induced mutagenesis. Among abiotic factors, heat stress is a potent driver that elevates mutation rates and enhances genetic variation, yet the underlying mechanisms in eukaryotes remain unclear. Here, we investigated how heat stress influences DNA repair and mutagenesis both locally and globally in Arabidopsis thaliana using CRISPR-Cas9-induced DNA breaks, whole genome sequencing, and single-cell transcriptomic analysis. Heat stress greatly enhanced CRISPR editing efficiency across different chromatin contexts, reaching up to a 29.9-fold increase in heterochromatic regions. Moreover, heat stress consistently shifted repair outcomes toward one base pair insertions, independent of chromatin state. We identified a heat-inducible, error-prone DNA polymerase, DNA polymerase λ (DNA Polλ), as the key mediator of these repair profile changes. Genome-wide analyses of somatic mutations further revealed that the heat-induced increase in mutagenesis also depends on DNA Polλ. Single-cell transcriptomic profiling showed that DNA Polλ expression is tightly regulated and enriched in the central zone of the shoot apical meristem. Such tissue-specific patterns suggest that DNA Polλ serves dual functions: maintaining genome integrity in essential stem cell populations while also enabling stress-induced mutagenesis that can be transmitted to progeny.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society of Plant Biologists.
DNA ends are frequently damaged during the formation of DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs). These ends must be repaired to enable ligation during non-homologous end joining (NHEJ). NHEJ uses several end processing factors to repair DNA ends within the short-range synaptic complex (SRC), including Polymerase λ (Pol λ) which performs gap fill-in. Pol λ possesses a Ku Binding Motif (KBM) within its BRCT domain that interacts with Ku and recruits it to the SRC. Here, we show that in addition to its role in recruitment, Ku also stimulates Pol λ polymerase activity at DSBs. Using a structural prediction approach and biochemical assays, we identify and characterize an autoinhibitory intramolecular interaction between the N-terminal BRCT and C-terminal catalytic domains of Pol λ. Furthermore, single-molecule approaches reveal that Ku increases both the binding rate of Pol λ to primer-template DNA and the rate of nucleotide incorporation, demonstrating that Ku releases Pol λ autoinhibition and stimulates its polymerase activity within the SRC during NHEJ. Combined, these data highlight how intricate protein-protein interactions within the SRC complex are critical to regulate end-processing and maximize the fidelity of DSB repair.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Acinetobacter baumannii is a Gram-negative opportunistic pathogen linked to over 400,000 deaths annually, with International Clone 2 (IC2) recognised as a major multidrug-resistant (MDR) lineage. We analysed 668 IC2 genomes from BIGSdb, assessed completeness using usegalaxy-BUSCO, and annotated them with Prokka. Protein-protein interactions were mapped using STRING; interacting genes were identified using Cytoscape; functional enrichment was conducted using Enrichr and KEGG, retrieving protein from UniProt; and potential drug candidates were obtained from ChEMBL. Molecular docking was carried out using Autodock 4, and the complexes were visualised in Discovery studio. ADME profiling with SWISSADME and toxicity were assessed using MCULE and ProTOX-3.0. We identified polA as a major hub gene involved in DNA repair and essential for survival under genotoxic antibiotic stress, suggesting that it could impair bacterial adaptability and resistance mechanisms. Molecular docking using AutoDock Vina identified Nodulisporone and Nodulisporol from ChEMBL as potential inhibitors that also fulfilled Lipinski's criteria, with higher binding affinities for A. baumannii PolA than for human DNA polymerase lambda (PolL). This suggests that polA inhibition may potentiate existing antibiotics, reducing the dissemination of resistance and disrupting essential repair processes. Our bioinformatic and computational biology approach offers an effective strategy for developing novel treatments against multidrug-resistant pathogens.© 2026 APMIS ‐ Journal of Pathology, Microbiology and Immunology.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41002031
Animal models suggest an association between base excision repair (BER) deficiency and increased risk of obesity. To mechanistically investigate the effect of BER deficiency on intracellular lipid accumulation, we studied metabolic activity in in vitro BER knockdown (KD) models, targeting MutY DNA Glycosylase (MUTYH), Nth Like DNA Glycosylase 1 (NTHL1) and 8-Oxoguanine DNA Glycosylase (OGG1). We hypothesized that exposing BER deficient cells to lipids leads to reduced mitochondrial function and enhanced intracellular lipid accumulation. Stable BER KD models were generated in HepG2 cells using lentiviral shRNAs. KD was confirmed by qRT-PCR and BER activity was assessed using a modified comet assay. Upon exposure to a mixture of oleic and palmitic acid, DNA damage and mitochondrial copy number were only altered in NTHL1-KD cells, but all KD cells accumulated more intracellular lipids compared to lacZ control cells as determined by Oil-Red-O (ORO) staining. Compared to control cells, exposure to the fatty acid mixture increased proton leak in MUTYH-KD cells, indicating impaired mitochondrial function. Moreover, all KD cells showed reduced β-oxidation activity when exposed to the fatty acid mixture. Overall, this study shows that BER deficient HepG2 cells are more prone to accumulated lipids, which was associated with impaired mitochondrial function. These findings are relevant in understanding the underlying mechanisms that modulate the sensitivity of a person to accumulate lipids and increase their risk of developing metabolic diseases such as obesity and fatty liver disease.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 40737096
Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT) is overexpressed in some cancer types, where it drives the mutagenic repair of double strand breaks through non canonical non-homologous end joining pathway. The TdT enzyme belongs to the X family of polymerases, together with the DNA polymerase λ (pol λ) and β (pol β). However, TdT exclusively displays template-independent nucleotide polymerisation. Pursuing our studies in developing TdT inhibitors, herein we deepened the structure-activity relationships of new structural analogues of our previously identified hit compounds. The diketo hexenoic acid derivatives here analysed showed high selectivity towards TdT and inhibition potencies spanning from the low micromolar range to the nanomolar. Docking studies highlighted the chemical features involved in the TdT binding, well contributing to the rationalisation of the structural requirements needed for the enzymatic inhibition.
ickettsiae are tick-borne pathogens that infect human hosts through poorly characterized mechanisms. Herein, we report that ATG9 (autophagy related 9) plays a previously unrecognized role in inhibiting Rickettsia binding to the host cell surface. Unexpectedly, this new function of ATG9 is likely independent of macroautophagy/autophagy. Instead, ATG9 acts as a host defending factor by binding to XRCC6/KU70, a receptor of the Rickettsia outer-membrane protein rOmpB. Both ATG9 and rOmpB bind to the DNA-binding domain of XRCC6, suggesting a competitive role for ATG9 occupying the binding site of rOmpB to abrogate Rickettsia binding. Furthermore, we show that rapamycin transcriptionally activates ATG9 and inhibits rOmpB-mediated infection in a mouse model. Collectively, our study reveals a novel innate mechanism regulating Rickettsia infection and suggests that agonists of ATG9 May be useful for developing therapeutic strategies for the intervention of rickettsial diseases.Abbreviation: APEX2: apurinic/apyrimidinic endodeoxyribonuclease 2; ATG: autophagy related; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; CQ: chloroquine; E. coli: Escherichia coli; GST: glutathione S-transferase; ICM: immunofluorescence confocal microscopy; IP-Mass: immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry; KD: knockdown; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; rOmpB: rickettsial outer membrane protein B; SAP: SAF-A/B, Acinus, and PIAS; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TFEB: transcription factor EB; VWA: von Willebrand factor A; XRCC6/KU70: X-ray repair cross complementing 6.
The ability to control gene expression is vital for elucidating gene functions and developing next-generation therapeutics. Current techniques are challenged by the lack of cell-specific control designs or immunogenicity risk from foreign proteins. We develop a DNA repair inducible ribozyme switch that enables cell-specific control of gene expression in cells and in vivo. This strategy designs plasmids with a DNA lesion (8-oxoG and O6-MeG) site-specifically installed within the ribozyme encoding region, generating active hammerhead ribozyme for mRNA degradation due to transcriptional mutagenesis, whereas DNA repair yields a single-base mismatch in the ribozyme to abrogate its activity. This strategy is demonstrated to allow specific control of gene expression in cancer cells with overexpressed DNA repair enzymes such as MutY DNA glycosylase and O6-methylguanine-DNA-methyltransferases. It also shows the capability of conditionally regulating the expression of different proteins for signal reporting and gene editing, enabling DNA repair monitoring and targeted gene therapy in cancer cells. This strategy is demonstrated using the inducible CRISPR/Cas9 system for in vivo editing of oncogenic Polo-like kinase 1 in a mouse model, resulting in significant tumor growth suppression. The DNA repair inducible ribozyme switch may provide a compact system for cell-specific gene expression control toward precise gene therapy.© 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH.
Osteoporosis (OP) occurs with decreased bone mass and deterioration of the bone microarchitecture. This can lead to an increased incidence of bone fractures. In traditional Chinese medicine, the herbal pair of Eucommia ulmoides and Achyranthes bidentata is used to tonify the liver and kidney in order to strengthen bones. This study examined the network pharmacology and molecular docking of the pair to investigate the pharmacological mechanisms of the drug pair against OP. Active compounds were retrieved from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology database if they had an oral bioavailability of 30% or greater and a drug-likeness score of 0.18 or greater. OP-associated targets were identified from the GeneCards and Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man databases. The compound-target-disease network and protein-protein interaction network were built using Cytoscape and the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins, respectively. Key pathways were identified using the Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery functional enrichment analysis. To predict the potential binding interactions between the major compounds and the hub targets, molecular docking was used. In total, 49 active compounds (28 from E ulmoides and 21 from A bidentata) and 95 overlapping therapeutic targets were found. Quercetin, kaempferol, β-sitosterol, stigmasterol and wogonin were identified as key bioactive components within the network analysis. Fourteen hub targets, including interleukin-6, vascular endothelial growth factor A, tumor necrosis factor, tumor protein p53, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, were identified through protein-protein interaction analysis. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment revealed involvement in tumor necrosis factor, mitogen-activated protein kinase, hypoxia-inducible factor 1, Toll-like receptor, and NOD-like receptor signaling pathways. Molecular docking demonstrated favorable binding affinities between the key compounds and core proteins, suggesting potential interactions consistent with the network pharmacology predictions. The Eucommia-Achyranthes herbal pair may exert potential therapeutic effects on OP through multicomponent, multi-target, and multi-pathway interactions. Its main bioactive compounds may potentially interact with inflammatory and osteogenic signaling pathways via key targets such as interleukin-6, vascular endothelial growth factor A, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, tumor protein p53, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, which may be associated with bone metabolism and structural integrity. These findings provide a theoretical foundation for future experimental and clinical validation.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
This study investigates the potential mechanisms through which the Rhubarb-Peach Kernel herb pair may exert effects in gastric cancer (GC) using network pharmacology and molecular docking approaches. Active compounds and their corresponding targets were retrieved from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology Database and Analysis Platform (TCMSP), with additional compound-target information obtained from DrugBank. Gastric cancer-related targets were collected from GeneCards, Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM), the Therapeutic Target Database, and DrugBank. The overlapping targets were used to construct a compound-target-disease network and a protein-protein interaction network. Gene ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analyses were subsequently performed. Nine candidate compounds were docked against 8 core targets to assess their predicted structural interactions. A total of 27 active compounds were identified, among which β-sitosterol, aloe-emodin, and hederagenin were identified as major candidate compounds. Tumor protein p53, caspase 3, and JUN were among the principal network targets. Enrichment analysis indicated that the overlapping targets were mainly associated with the p53 signaling pathway and other pathways involved in cancer-related processes, including apoptosis, cell survival, and inflammatory regulation. Molecular docking revealed differences in predicted binding scores among the 9 candidate compounds and 8 core targets, with several compound-target pairs showing comparatively lower docking energies. This in silico study suggests that the Rhubarb-Peach Kernel herb pair may act through multiple compounds, targets, and biological pathways relevant to GC. However, the identified targets are not necessarily specific to GC, and the molecular docking findings represent computational predictions rather than evidence of actual biological binding. These results should therefore be considered preliminary and hypothesis-generating, and further in vitro and in vivo studies are required to evaluate their biological and therapeutic relevance.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565580 is a review article
Tumor protein p53 (TP53) alterations are frequently reported in canine cancers but remain incompletely characterized due to differences in reference genomes and sequencing cost.To evaluate a cost-efficient primer-walking approach for TP53 variant screening in dogs with spontaneous tumors.Tumor tissue (n = 10) or blood (n = 16) was collected from 26 dogs with suspected neoplasia. Interpretable TP53 sequences spanning introns and exons 2-11, excluding long intron 1 and non-protein-coding exon 1, were obtained by primer-walking polymerase chain reaction and Sanger sequencing. Bidirectional reads were compared with the Ensembl ROS_Cfam_1.0 v114 reference sequence.TP53 gene sequence variations were observed in 18/26 sequenced tumor cases, including one exonic frameshift insertion and 17 noncoding variants: 13 intronic variants and 4 variants in the 5' untranslated region. Recurrent substitutions and deletions occurred in the intron 8-10 region. Variants were detected in lymphomas and carcinomas, including cases from several small breeds, but no significant association with tumor type or breed was demonstrated.Primer-walking Sanger sequencing can screen TP53 regions beyond coding exons in canine tumor samples. Matched tumor-normal sequencing is needed to determine somatic versus germline origin and to evaluate noncoding TP53 variants as potential biomarkers or drivers.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by The Korean Society of Veterinary Science.
We report a case of pulmonary artery intimal sarcoma successfully treated with surgical resection followed by weekly paclitaxel. The tumor harbored a tumor protein p53 mutation, amplifications of epidermal growth factor receptor, platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha, and KIT, and focal positivity for mouse double minute 2.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Case Reports published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a highly effective anthracycline chemotherapeutic agent whose clinical utility is limited by dose-dependent cardiotoxicity. Although oxidative stress and mitochondrial injury are established mechanisms, the contribution of regulated metal-dependent cell death (MCD) pathways remains incompletely defined. This study investigated the ferroptosis and cuproptosis role in doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity (DIC) and evaluated the protective effects of luteolin (LUT) and nanoliposomal LUT using an integrated network pharmacology and experimental validation approach in rats. Network pharmacology identified multitarget interactions linking LUT with oxidative stress, metal homeostasis, and cell death signaling pathways. In vivo, DOX administration induced marked cardiac dysfunction, elevated serum cardiac injury biomarkers, myocardial histopathological damage, and ultrastructural abnormalities. These changes were accompanied by significant cardiac iron and copper accumulation, increased malondialdehyde (MDA), depleted superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione (GSH), reduced glutathione peroxidase-4 (GPX4) activity, and increased tumor protein p53 (TP53) expression. At the molecular level, DOX downregulated the ferroptosis-protective genes, SLC7A11 and SLC3A2, while upregulating the iron transport genes, transferrin receptor 1 (TFR1) and SLC39A14, together with the cuproptosis-related genes ferredoxin-1 (FDX1) and SLC31A1, while suppressing ATP7A. These changes were further supported by altered protein expression of SLC7A11, ATP7A, and TP53. LUT significantly ameliorated these functional, biochemical, molecular, and structural alterations, indicating suppression of both ferroptotic and cuproptotic signaling. Nanoliposomal LUT showed superior efficacy to free LUT across most assessed parameters. Collectively, these findings support the involvement of ferroptosis and cuproptosis related signaling in DIC and highlight LUT, particularly in nanoliposomal form, as a promising cardioprotective strategy against anthracycline toxicity.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
G protein-coupled receptor 19 (GPR19) is an orphan G protein-coupled receptor with emerging relevance in cancer; however, its role in breast cancer remains poorly understood. Given the high frequency of tumor protein p53 (TP53) alterations in aggressive breast cancer, particularly triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), we investigated the clinical significance, biological function, and molecular mechanism of GPR19 in TP53-mutant breast cancer.Public datasets (Gene Expression Omnibus and The Cancer Genome Atlas) were analyzed to assess GPR19 expression in relation to TP53 status, molecular subtype, and prognosis. Expression was validated in breast cancer cell lines, paired clinical tissues, and tissue microarrays by quantitative PCR, Western blotting, immunofluorescence, and immunohistochemistry. Stable GPR19 knockdown models in MDA-MB-231 and BT-549 cells were used to evaluate proliferation, cell cycle distribution, and apoptosis. RNA sequencing, rescue experiments with the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activator Ro 67-7476, and a nude mouse xenograft model were employed to investigate the underlying mechanism.GPR19 was significantly upregulated in TP53-mutant breast cancer, primary tumors, and especially TNBC, and its high expression was associated with poor survival. Functionally, GPR19 depletion markedly suppressed cell proliferation, colony formation, and DNA synthesis, while inducing G2/M arrest and apoptosis in TP53-mutant breast cancer cells. Mechanistically, GPR19 knockdown reduced ERK phosphorylation and downregulated forkhead box protein M1 (FOXM1) and its downstream G2/M regulators cyclin B1 (CCNB1) and polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1), whereas total ERK levels remained largely unchanged. Pharmacological activation of ERK partially restored FOXM1 expression, alleviated cell cycle disturbance and apoptosis, and reversed the growth-inhibitory effects of GPR19 depletion. In vivo, GPR19 knockdown suppressed xenograft growth, reduced Ki-67 staining, increased terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) positivity, and inhibited the ERK-FOXM1-CCNB1/PLK1 signaling cascade, all of which were partially rescued by ERK activation.GPR19 functions as a novel oncogenic driver and clinically relevant biomarker in breast cancer, particularly in TP53-mutant and TNBC subsets. By activating the ERK-FOXM1 axis, GPR19 sustains cell cycle progression and suppresses apoptosis, highlighting this pathway as a potential therapeutic vulnerability in aggressive breast cancer.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Cluster of differrentiation 19 (CD19)-directed therapies have significantly improved outcomes in B-cell malignancies; however, relapse driven by antigen escape remains a major clinical challenge, underscoring the need for alternative therapeutic targets. The B-cell activating factor receptor (BAFF-R), a key regulator of B-cell survival, is highly expressed in mature B-cell neoplasms, but its relevance in B-lymphoblastic leukaemia (B-ALL) remains unclear. We assessed BAFF-R expression in diagnostic and relapsed fresh B-ALL samples using multi-parameter flow cytometry. BAFF-R was consistently expressed in most cases, albeit at lower levels than in mature B cells, and expression was retained in the majority of CD19-negative relapses following CD19-directed therapy. Notably, tumor protein p53 (TP53) alterations were significantly enriched in CD19-negative immune escape disease (68.8% vs. 21.7%; p = 0.0006; OR = 7.9), yet BAFF-R expression remained preserved in this high-risk group. These findings establish BAFF-R as a stable immunotherapeutic target in B-ALL, including in CD19-negative and TP53-altered relapsed disease, and underscore its relevance amid ongoing early-phase clinical trials of BAFF-R-directed chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy.© 2026 British Society for Haematology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42492394 is a review article
To systematically investigate the shared and disease-specific mechanisms by which gut microbial metabolites may regulate age-related macular degeneration (AMD), diabetic retinopathy (DR), and retinal vein occlusion (RVO) through a network pharmacology framework.Bioinformatics-based network pharmacology study.Publicly available gut microbial metabolite, metabolite-target, and disease-associated gene data sets related to AMD, DR, and RVO were analyzed.Gut microbial metabolites were retrieved from gutMGene, and potential human targets were predicted using the Similarity Ensemble Approach and SwissTargetPrediction. Disease-associated genes were collected from GeneCards, Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man, and the Comparative Toxicogenomics Database. Intersection genes were analyzed using Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analyses. Protein-protein interaction networks were constructed using the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins database, and candidate hub targets were prioritized in Cytoscape. Drug-likeness and toxicity profiles of key metabolites were evaluated using SwissADME and ADMETlab 3.0. An integrated microbiota-substrate-metabolite-target (M-S-M-T) network was constructed to characterize gut-eye axis regulation.Intersection genes, enriched biological functions and pathways, high-centrality candidate hub targets, predicted drug-likeness and toxicity profiles of metabolites, and M-S-M-T regulatory relationships.A total of 226 gut microbial metabolites and 1518 predicted host targets were identified. Intersection analysis revealed 47, 44, and 40 metabolite-related genes associated with AMD, DR, and RVO, respectively, including 38 genes shared across all 3 diseases. Enrichment analyses showed convergent involvement of microbial signal sensing, inflammatory regulation, oxidative stress, apoptosis, and vascular homeostasis. Nuclear factor kappa B, mitogen-activated protein kinase, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-protein kinase B, tumor necrosis factor, VEGF, Toll-like receptor, and nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-like receptor pathways formed a shared inflammatory-oxidative-vascular signaling module. Protein-protein interaction analysis identified interleukin 6, tumor necrosis factor, protein kinase B alpha, and tumor protein p53 as recurrent high-centrality candidate hub targets. Key metabolites, including indole-3-propionic acid, tryptamine, phenylalanine, and indole-3-lactic acid, showed favorable predicted drug-likeness and safety profiles.Gut microbial metabolites may contribute to AMD, DR, and RVO through shared inflammatory, oxidative stress, and vascular signaling networks. These findings provide a systems-level framework for gut-eye axis regulation and support further experimental validation of microbiota-based systemic intervention strategies.The author has no/the authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.© 2026 American Academy of Ophthalmology, Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Backgrounds: Cyclin-dependent kinase 7 (CDK7) plays key roles in transcription and cell cycle regulation, and its inhibition has been proposed as a potential therapeutic strategy for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The primary research objective of this study is to identify and validate CDK7-associated prognostic genes in HCC using bioinformatics approaches, construct a reliable prognostic risk model, and explore the functional role of CDK7 in HCC progression through in vitro and in vivo experiments, with a specific focus on its association with RelA/p65 phosphorylation, so as to provide evidence supporting CDK7 as a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for HCC. Methods: Two independent HCC cohorts from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA)-HCC and the Gene Expression Omnibus (dataset GSE14520) were analyzed. Patients were stratified by CDK7 expression. Differentially expressed genes were identified in both CDK7-based and tumor-versus-normal comparisons, and the intersection of these genes was analyzed. Univariate Cox regression and machine learning were used to screen prognostic genes and construct a risk model. The model's predictive utility was assessed using Kaplan-Meier and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analyses. Mutation landscapes were compared between risk groups. The functional association of CDK7 was validated through in vitro and in vivo experiments. Results: Eight prognostic genes (CHGA, SH2D5, ACTBP12, SOX2, AGR2, ISM2, KRT12, and BRDT) were screened from 98 intersecting genes via univariate Cox regression and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression analyses to construct a risk model. In the TCGA-HCC (374 HCC samples and 50 control samples) and GSE14520 cohorts (222 HCC samples and 212 control samples), patients in the high-risk group had significantly worse overall survival than those in the low-risk group (Hazard Ratio [HR] = 0.003-0.036, 95% Confidence Interval [CI] = 1.01-4.28, p < 0.05). The predictive accuracy of the model was moderate, with the areas under the ROC curves (AUCs) for 1-, 3-, and 5-year survival exceeding 0.6 (specifically, 0.69 for 3-year survival). In vitro and in vivo experiments demonstrated that CDK7 expression is associated with HCC proliferation, migration, invasion, and tumor growth, and this association might be related to RelA/p65 phosphorylation. Conclusions: This study identified a novel eight-gene prognostic signature linked to CDK7 in HCC and provided experimental evidence that CDK7 promotes tumor aggressiveness. These findings suggest the potential of CDK7 as a prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for HCC, though further validation of its clinical utility is needed.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase alpha (PI3Kα) and cyclin-dependent kinase 7 (CDK7) play key roles in the growth of multiple cancers. PI3Kα indirectly activates and enhances CDK7 expression. Our preliminary findings from screening recombinant PI3Kα on the Kinome Array showed that it may directly activate CDK7 and presents promising targets for the development of novel drugs with dual inhibition. In this work, we designed and synthesized two hybrids, HY3 and HY5, employing the strategy of combining the cores of Alpelisib and SY-5609, known selective inhibitors of PI3Kα and CDK7, respectively. HY3 showed 98% inhibition against CDK7 and 10% against PI3Kα. 10-point titration of HY3 was determined against CDK7 with an IC50 = 10.8 nM. We then developed a potent hybrid inhibitor (HY5) employing X-ray structure-based drug design. HY5 showed dual inhibition, 87% inhibition with IC50 of 87.9 nM against PI3Kα and 89% inhibition with IC50 of 638 nM against CDK7. We also screened HY5 for cytotoxicity against HCT116, SKOV3 and MCF7 cells exhibiting IC50s of 360 nM, 490 nM, and 820 nM, respectively. To compare selective killing of cancer cells, we tested HY5 against several normal cell lines: human fibroblast (WI-38), retinal pigmented epithelial cells (RPE), mouse embryonic cell line (10 T1/2), and canine kidney (MDCK). HY5 was significantly less toxic against WI-38 and showed similar toxicity against 10 T1/2, RPE and MDCK cells at 5, 10 and 20 μM which is comparable to the Alpelisib + SY-5609 combination. HY5 showed high selectivity for MCF7 cells where 80% were killed at 1 μM compared to only 10-50% of normal cells at 20 μM.Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Alterations in the BRCA1 DNA repair associated (BRCA1) and BRCA2 DNA repair associated (BRCA2), two key DNA repair genes, are strongly linked to adult-onset malignancies and play a significant role in tumor development. Although BRCA1 and BRCA2 are firmly recognized as hereditary cancer risk genes in adult populations, their role in central nervous system (CNS) tumor susceptibility in younger patients is still debated.We analyzed 367 pediatric, adolescent, and young adult (AYA) patients with primary CNS tumors. Tumors were classified according to the WHO Classification of Tumors of the CNS, fifth edition. All patients underwent clinical exome sequencing, including BRCA1 and BRCA2.Rare germline BRCA1/2 variants were identified in 17 of 367 patients (4.6%). Among them, 5 patients (1.4% of the overall cohort) carried pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants, whereas 12 patients (3.3%) carried variants of uncertain significance (VUSs).Our findings are consistent with emerging evidence suggesting that monoallelic pathogenic BRCA1/2 variants may act as low-penetrance susceptibility factors in pediatric and AYA CNS tumors rather than as primary oncogenic drivers. Interpretation is limited by cohort heterogeneity, lack of a noncancer control group, and absence of systematic somatic analyses to assess biallelic inactivation or homologous recombination deficiency. Nevertheless, these data support the inclusion of BRCA genes in germline testing panels for pediatric and AYA CNS tumors, with relevant implications for genetic counseling and long-term surveillance.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Objectives: Genetic risk models have substantially advanced our understanding of germline pathogenic variants (GPVs) in some malignancies, whereas their clinical significance in lung cancer remains unclear. The present study aimed to better understand potential contribution of GPVs to lung cancer etiology. Methods: A targeted sequencing panel of 143 cancer-related genes was applied to analyze 26 distinct lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) tumors from 11 patients histopathologically diagnosed with multiple primary lung cancers (MPLC). Tumor classification was performed through integrated evaluation of mutation profiles, and variants shared among tumor lesions were further validated as likely germline or somatic mutations using Sanger sequencing. Results: Mutation profiles were compared to reveal clonal relationships among lesions in each patient. Nine of the 11 cases (81.8%) were classified as MPLC, 1/11 (9.1%) as intrapulmonary metastasis (IM), and 1/11 (9.1%) exhibited features of both MPLC and IM. Among the nine MPLC cases, eight (88.9%) harbored matching variants across independent tumor lesions that were also detected in tumor-adjacent regions, suggesting classification as likely germline variants. Importantly, among the eight cases with shared variants, one possessed a novel truncating BRCA2 DNA repair associated (BRCA2) variant (p.N900IfsTer4), while the others harbored variants of uncertain significance (VUS) in the tumor protein p53 (TP53), caspase recruitment domain family member 11 (CARD11), platelet derived growth factor receptor beta (PDGFRB), lysine methyltransferase 2D (KMT2D), phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunit 1 (PIK3R1), neuregulin 1 (NRG1), androgen receptor (AR), and KIT proto-oncogene, receptor tyrosine kinase (KIT) genes. To determine whether a similar BRCA2 variant was present in other lung cancer patients, 123 LUAD cases were analyzed, and one (0.81%) possessing a truncating BRCA2 variant (p.Q1429FfsTer20) without any typical driver mutations was identified. Conclusions: BRCA2 GPVs may represent putative pathogenic mutations, and thus be potential molecular targets for future treatment of LUAD.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 7 (Cdk7) is a unique Cdk that drives cell proliferation and gene transcription. While its involvement in dividing cells as a Cdk-activating kinase (CAK) is essential for cell cycle progression, its function during the differentiation of postmitotic cells remains to be elucidated. Here, we show that loss of Cdk7 in developing cortical neurons critically hampers neurite growth and leads to aberrant social behaviors. Mechanistically, transcriptomic analysis reveals that the lack of Cdk7 in cortical neurons results in the downregulation of numerous genes controlling neuronal morphology, including several key players in the Calcium-dependent Wnt5a pathway. Interestingly, supplementing Cdk7-cKO neurons with Wnt5a ligand partially mitigates the observed defects in neuritogenesis. Our work highlights the importance of transcriptional Cdks beyond cell cycle exit and underscores their critical importance for normal brain function.© 2026. The Author(s).
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is a lethal and fast-growing brain cancer that is difficult to treat with standard medical interventions. GBM tumors often overexpress cyclin-dependent kinase 9, in complex with cyclin T1, and thus, it represents a promising target for therapeutic intervention. In this study, we employed a structure-based virtual screening approach for a curated library of 6,059 bis-pyridyl compounds from PubChem to identify potential CDK9/T1 inhibitors. Subsequent in vitro ADP-Glo assay led to the identification of GNE-3511 as a potent CDK9/T1 inhibitor with an IC50 of 0.064 μM. GNE-3511 also inhibited CDK7/cyclin H with an IC50 of 0.12 μM. In U-87 MG and T98G glioblastoma cells, GNE-3511 exhibited cytotoxicity with a GI50 of 3.4 and 5.0 μM, inducing G2/M phase cell cycle arrest and promoting early apoptosis. Treatment with GNE-3511 significantly reduced the expression of the anti-apoptotic markers BCL-2, SURVIVIN and drug resistance markers (ABCB1 and ABCG2) in a dose-dependent manner, and downregulated glioma stem cell population/markers (CD44, CD90+, or CD133+ and BMI-1) and sphere formation abilities. Oral administration of GNE-3511 at 20 mg/kg (twice daily) demonstrated significant anti-tumor efficacy and improved survival in both U-87 MG and T98G xenograft/orthotopic mouse models. Collectively, these findings highlight GNE-3511 as a promising lead candidate for the development of GBM therapeutics.
To investigate the expression pattern, prognostic significance, and underlying molecular mechanisms of mutY homolog (MUTYH) in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and to evaluate its clinical potential as a novel biomarker and therapeutic target.The differential expression of MUTYH between HCC and normal tissues was compared using the TCGA and GEO databases. Associations with clinicopathological parameters, TP53 mutation status, diagnostic efficacy of alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), and sorafenib resistance were analyzed. Prognostic impact was evaluated using the Kaplan-Meier method with the log-rank test, and univariate and multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression models were used to verify its independent prognostic value. Molecular mechanisms were explored through GO, KEGG, and GSEA enrichment analyses as well as protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction. The correlations of MUTYH with immune cell infiltration and the immunotherapeutic efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors were assessed using the CIBERSORT algorithm and the BEST database. Quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) was performed to validate the expression differences of MUTYH and its core interacting molecules between HCC and normal tissues.MUTYH was significantly upregulated in HCC (P < 0.05), clinical sample tests have confirmed that it can serve as a biomarker for diagnosing HCC (area under the curve [AUC] = 0.824, 95% CI: 0.762-0.886, P < 0.001), its diagnostic value remains high even in the HCC subgroup with low AFP expression (GSE25097, AUC = 0.716, P < 0.001; GSE63898, AUC = 0.624, P < 0.001). High MUTYH expression correlated with sorafenib resistance (P < 0.05) and was an independent risk factor for poor overall survival (hazard ratio [HR] = 1.92, P < 0.05). Mechanistically, MUTYH was positively associated with apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease 1 (APEX1) (r = 0.83, P < 0.05), potentially facilitating G1/S transition by modulating cyclin-dependent kinase 4, cyclin-dependent kinase 7, and cyclin E2. Immune analysis identified MUTYH as a predictor for anti-PD-1/PD-L1 response (IMvigor210 AUC = 0.637; Cho2020 AUC = 0.782), though no association was found with anti-CTLA-4 therapy.MUTYH is significantly overexpressed in HCC and may promote HCC progression by regulating APEX1 and key cell cycle molecules. Compared with the conventional marker AFP, MUTYH demonstrates superior diagnostic and prognostic evaluation efficacy and is associated with anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapeutic response and sorafenib resistance. Overall, MUTYH has potential as a novel biomarker and therapeutic target for HCC.© 2026《四川大学学报（医学版）》编辑部 Copyright © 2026 Editorial Office of Journal of Sichuan University (Medical Sciences).
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the role of centrin-2 (CETN2) in platinum resistance and its underlying mechanisms in ovarian cancer. METHODS: We conducted a pan-cancer analysis of CETN2 expression and its associated genes using the STRING and TIMER databases. Data from the GEO and TCGA databases were employed for survival, clinical correlation, and prognostic analyses. Enrichment and co-expression analyses were performed to identify relevant pathways and genes. We also analyzed the tumor microenvironment, immune checkpoints, and drug sensitivity. For clinical validation, quantitative real-time PCR was used to measure CETN2 expression in patient samples and assess its correlation with chemotherapy response. Predictive models, including logistic regression and decision trees, were constructed. Their performance in predicting chemotherapy outcomes was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves, and the prognostic impact of CETN2 was assessed via Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. RESULTS: CETN2 mRNA expression was significantly elevated in cisplatin-resistant samples. CETN2 was associated with the nucleotide excision repair (NER), oxidative phosphorylation, and cell cycle pathways and showed a negative correlation with several immune checkpoints. CETN2 expression demonstrated notable predictive value for chemotherapy response, particularly in platinum-sensitive ovarian cancer. It influenced stromal and immune-related scores in the tumor microenvironment, and differential expression levels correlated with significant variations in sensitivity to specific drugs. In clinical samples, CETN2 expression was linked to immune infiltration patterns. Protein expression of CETN2 was significantly higher in platinum-resistant patients compared to platinum-sensitive patients and showed predictive utility for chemotherapy outcomes. CONCLUSION: Upregulation of CETN2 may contribute to cisplatin resistance through pathways involving nucleotide excision repair, oxidative phosphorylation, and the cell cycle. CETN2 holds potential as a biomarker for platinum-based chemotherapy response and prognostic evaluation in ovarian cancer.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 7 (CDK7), a key regulator of cell cycle progression and transcriptional control, has emerged as a promising therapeutic target in acute leukemia. While CDK7 inhibitors have shown antileukemic activity, their clinical utility is often restricted by dose-dependent thrombocytopenia. To overcome this challenge, we developed and characterized a series of CDK7-selective PROTAC degraders. By engaging the VHL E3 ligase, which is minimally expressed in platelets, CXJ2080 achieves tumor-selective CDK7 degradation with remarkable potency and selectivity (a DC50 of 0.88 nM and >98% degradation efficiency). This selective targeting spares platelets, thereby avoiding the hematologic toxicity associated with conventional CDK7 inhibitors. Mechanistically, CDK7 degradation disrupts the CDK7-cyclin H-MAT1 complex, simultaneously suppressing MYC-driven oncogenic signaling while activating the p53-p21 tumor suppressor axis. These effects have culminated in robust antileukemic activity in preclinical models, while preserving normal peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) function. Collectively, our findings establish CXJ2080 as a next-generation CDK7-targeted therapeutic agent with enhanced efficacy and reduced hematotoxicity, showing great promise for the treatment of acute leukemia.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Centrioles are polarized microtubule-based structures with appendages at their distal end that are essential for cilia formation and function. The protein C2CD3 is critical for distal appendage assembly, with mutations linked to orofaciodigital syndrome and other ciliopathies. However, its precise molecular role in appendage recruitment remains unclear. Using ultrastructure expansion microscopy (U-ExM) and iterative U-ExM on human cells, together with in situ cryo-electron tomography (cryo-ET) on mouse tissues, we reveal that C2CD3 adopts a radially symmetric 9-fold organization within the centriole's distal lumen. We show that the C-terminal region of C2CD3 localizes close to a ~100 nm luminal ring structure consisting of ~27 nodes, while its N-terminal region localizes close to a hook-like structure that attaches to the A-microtubule as it extends from the centriole interior to exterior. This hook structure is adjacent to the DISCO complex (MNR/CEP90/OFD1), which marks future appendage sites. C2CD3 depletion disrupts not only the recruitment of the DISCO complex via direct interaction with MNR but also destabilizes the luminal ring network composed of C2CD3/SFI1/centrin-2/CEP135/NA14, as well as the distal microtubule tip protein CEP162. This reveals an intricate "in-to-out" molecular hub connecting the centriolar lumen, distal microtubule cap, and appendages. Although C2CD3 loss results in shorter centrioles and appendage defects, key structural elements remain intact, permitting continued centriole duplication. We propose that C2CD3 forms the luminal ring structure and extends radially to the space between triplet microtubules, functioning as an architectural hub that scaffolds the distal end of the centriole, orchestrating its assembly and directing appendage formation.Copyright: © 2025 Bertiaux et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
More than 90 species of Septoria have been reported from Korea, but the identity of many recorded taxa remains uncertain owing to the lack of detailed morphological documentation and multilocus sequence data. In this study, isolates collected from symptomatic leaves of economically and medicinally important plants between 2006 and 2024 were examined using morphological observations and multilocus phylogenetic analyses based on six loci (internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region, actin (ACT), β-tubulin (Btub), calmodulin (CAL), elongation factor 1-alpha (EF1-α), and RNA polymerase II second largest subunit (RPB2)). The concatenated dataset resolved three well-supported lineages corresponding to Septoria dioscoreicola on Dioscorea polystachya, S. eclipticola on Eclipta prostrata, and S. miurae on Taraxacum officinale, of which S. dioscoreicola and S. eclipticola are newly recorded in Korea, whereas Korean materials previously reported as S. taraxaci on Taraxacum are re-identified here as S. miurae. Multilocus analyses further demonstrated that S. taraxaci and S. miurae represent two distinct species associated with Taraxacum, with Korean and Japanese isolates corresponding to S. miurae, whereas the third Taraxacum-associated taxon, S. taraxacicola, is regarded as a synonym of S. miurae. Given the economic and medicinal importance of these hosts involved, the occurrence of Septoria leaf spot on these species may represent a potential concern for their cultivation in East Asia. These results provide an updated taxonomic basis for Septoria species occurring in Korea and clarify species boundaries within the Taraxacum-associated complex.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group on behalf of the Korean Society of Mycology.
Bovine alphaherpesvirus 1 (BoAHV-1) is one of the most important viruses that infects cattle and causes significant economic losses. Understanding the critical mechanisms underlying viral pathogenesis is essential for developing novel antiviral strategies.To determine if eukaryotic translation elongation factor-1 Δ (EEF1D) is involved in DNA damage repair in the presence or absence of BoAHV-1 infection by regulating the DNA damage response (DDR) signaling of P53-binding protein 1 (53BP1) and γH2AX.Bovine kidney (MDBK) cells were transfected with EEF1D-specific small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) or a scrambled control siRNA, followed by either a mock infection or virus infection. The effects of EEF1D knockdown on the γH2AX protein levels, γH2AX foci formation, and 53BP1 protein expression and foci formation were evaluated by Western blotting and immunofluorescence assays.siRNA-mediated EEF1D depletion increased the γH2AX protein levels irrespective of a viral infection and enhanced γH2AX foci formation in BoAHV-1-infected cells. In mock-infected cells, EEF1D knockdown increased the steady-state 53BP1 protein levels and 53BP1 foci formation. In contrast, during viral productive infection, EEF1D knockdown reduced the 53BP1 protein levels despite concurrently suppressing viral protein expression.EEF1D appears to alleviate BoAHV-1-induced DNA damage, potentially by modulating 53BP1-related DDR signaling. Hence, EEF1D may be a host factor linking viral replication and DDR regulation and may contribute to BoAHV-1 pathogenesis.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by The Korean Society of Veterinary Science.
Two virulent Metarhizium rileyi isolates, SlMr-DOR and SfMr-DOR, were comparatively characterized using morphological, pathogenicity, molecular, phylogenetic, and whole-genome analyses to investigate genomic differences associated with their entomopathogenic characteristics. Both isolates exhibited typical morphological features of M. rileyi and caused high mortality against second-instar Spodoptera litura larvae, with cumulative mortalities of 95.2% (SlMr-DOR) and 91.0% (SfMr-DOR) at 10 days post-inoculation. Molecular identification based on ITS, β-tubulin, and translation elongation factor 1-alpha (TEF1-α) gene sequences, together with multilocus phylogenetic analysis, confirmed their identity as M. rileyi and their placement within the Metarhizium lineage. High-quality genome assemblies of 32,547,182 bp (SlMr-DOR) and 36,078,628 bp (SfMr-DOR) with high BUSCO completeness enabled comparative genome analysis against the reference genome M. rileyi RCEF_4871. Comparative annotation identified quantitative differences in predicted protein families, including fungal-specific transcription factors, Zn₂/Cys₆ transcription factors, cytochrome P450s, protein kinases, and transporter proteins. Both isolates also possessed expanded repertoires of predicted cuticle-degrading enzyme families, including serine proteases, subtilisin-like proteases, trypsin-like proteases, metalloproteases, chitinases, lipases, and glycoside hydrolases, relative to the reference genome. Genome-wide annotation against the PHI database identified conserved putative virulence-associated genes, including Egh16-like proteins and pectin lyase fold proteins, while biosynthetic gene cluster analysis predicted diverse secondary metabolite pathways comprising polyketide synthases, non-ribosomal peptide synthetases, RiPP-like clusters, and hybrid biosynthetic clusters. These findings provide comprehensive comparative genomic resources for M. rileyi and identify candidate genomic features that may contribute to fungal pathogenicity and environmental adaptation, providing a foundation for future functional genomic studies and supporting the continued evaluation of these isolates as potential biocontrol agents against lepidopteran pests.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13205-026-05000-w.© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
This study reports the first isolation and characterization of the buffalo EF1α1 promoter, demonstrating its strong gene expression activity both in vitro across diverse cultured cell types and in vivo across multiple mouse organs. Although viral promoters, such as cytomegalovirus (CMV) and simian virus (SV40), are widely used for their strong expression in various cell lines in mammalian expression systems and in animal tissues, they are prone to methylation-induced transcriptional silencing and subsequent loss of exogenous gene expression. The most effective alternative to viral promoters is the synthetic hybrid CAG promoter (cytomegalovirus major immediate-early enhancer combined with the chicken beta-actin promoter) or mammalian cellular promoter such as human elongation factor 1 alpha (hEF1α), which drives strong gene expression but lacks consistency and is limited in their in vivo expression potential due to their vulnerability to epigenetic silencing. To overcome these challenges, the bbEF1α1 promoter was cloned and evaluated both in vitro and in vivo. It consistently drives higher levels of exogenous gene expression than CMV in diverse cell lines. Importantly, transgene expression was achieved in various organs of transgenic mice and in muscle tissue following in vivo electroporation. These findings establish the bbEF1α1 promoter as a powerful ubiquitous driver of gene expression, offering high stability with broad applications in gene therapy, biopharmaceutical production, and functional genomics.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
The genus Papiliotrema (Rhynchogastremataceae), which includes basidiomycetous yeast species, has a worldwide distribution. In this study, six Papiliotrema strains were isolated from flowers of Allamanda cathartica, Bidens pilosa, Cananga odorata, Oncidium sp., and Plumeria obtusa collected in Chiang Mai Province, northern Thailand, in 2024. An integrative taxonomic approach combining multilocus phylogenetic analyses using sequences of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS), the D1/D2 domains of the nuclear ribosomal large subunit (D1/D2), the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II (rpb1), the second-largest subunit of RNA polymerase II (rpb2), and translation elongation factor 1-alpha (tef1-α) with detailed phenotypic characterization revealed that these strains represent two novel species, namely Papiliotrema anthoicola sp. nov. (holotype, SDBR-CMU883T) and P. floralis sp. nov. (holotype, SDBR-CMU888T). Phylogenetic analysis clearly demonstrated that these taxa are distinct from other Papiliotrema species. Full descriptions, illustrations, and a phylogenetic tree showing the positions of the two Papiliotrema species identified in this study are provided.Chirayut Kathongthung, Pratthana Kodchasee, Saowaluck Singsalood, Chanokned Senwanna, Pannida Khunnamwong, Jaturong Kumla, Nakarin Suwannarach.
Based on a study of sporocarps developed in moist chamber cultures on the bark of Dacrydium elatum collected in Kon Chu Rang Reserve, central Vietnam, we describe a new species, Licea gorgona (Myxomycetes, Liceales). The new species is morphologically distinct from other species of the genus Licea due to its well-developed capillitium threads connected to the peridial margins, minute sporocarps with dark brown spore mass, circumscissile dehiscence via preformed ridges, and spores with ephemeral, rounded warts that detach readily, creating irregularly smooth ("bald") patches. Apart from the morphological study, partial sequences of the nuclear ribosome small subunit 18S rRNA gene (18S nuc rDNA), mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase subunit I gene (cox1), mitochondrial small subunit ribosomal gene (17S mt rDNA), and elongation factor-1 alpha gene (EF1α) were also provided. A multigene phylogenetic analysis places L. gorgona within the Lucisporomycetidae clade with other Licea species. We interpret capillitium in L. gorgona as plesiomorphic retention, contrasting with its apomorphic reduction in most other Licea species. Consequently, we propose revising the taxonomic diagnoses of the order Liceales and family Liceaceae to explicitly encompass species with a well-developed capillitium. However, due to the absence of molecular data for Listerella paradoxa and the majority of described Licea species, coupled with unconfirmed plasmodium morphology in L. paradoxa, we defer formal conclusions on the taxonomic status of Listerella and a comprehensive revision of the Licea circumscription.
Aberrant self-assembly of ataxin-3 (ATX3) into amyloid aggregates is a key pathological event in spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 (SCA3). Bioactive nutraceutical compounds, particularly polyphenols, have emerged as promising candidates for targeting protein aggregation and cellular stress responses associated with neurodegenerative disorders. Here, we investigated cinnamon bud extract as a natural source of neuroprotective molecules, focusing on its total extract (Etot) and two bioactive fractions: a polyphenol-enriched fraction (Fr. B) and a cinnamaldehyde-rich fraction (Fr. C). By integrating biochemical and biophysical techniques, we demonstrate that cinnamon-derived compounds modulate ATX3 aggregation by reducing the formation of β-sheet-rich amyloid assemblies and promoting the generation of SDS-resistant, soluble, structurally distinct, non-fibrillar species. NMR profiling identified flavonoids, cinnamaldehyde, and cinnamic acid as key ATX3-interacting molecules, supporting their contribution to the anti-amyloidogenic activity of the extract. Moreover, in a Caenorhabditis elegans SCA3 model, Etot and Fr. B improved locomotor defects and enhanced resistance to oxidative and thermal stress, indicating broader cytoprotective effects beyond direct aggregation modulation. Overall, these findings highlight cinnamon bud extract, particularly its polyphenol-rich fraction, as a promising nutraceutical source of bioactive compounds with potential neuroprotective properties and provide a basis for further investigation of nutraceutical strategies targeting polyglutamine-related neurodegenerative diseases.
Reliable reference genes are critical for ensuring the accuracy of RT-qPCR-based gene expression analysis, especially under environmental stress conditions. In this study, Leymus chinensis was used as the experimental material, and eight candidate reference genes-alpha-tubulin (TUA), beta-tubulin (TUB), glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), elongation factor 1-alpha (EF1α), 18S ribosomal RNA (18S rRNA), adenylyl cyclase-associated protein (CAP), adenine phosphoribosyl transferase (APRT), and actin (ACT)-were selected to evaluate their expression stability under cold, drought, heat, NaCl, high pH, wounding, abscisic acid (ABA) and jasmonic acid (JA) treatments. Primer specificity and amplification efficiency were first assessed, and the candidate genes were then comprehensively analyzed using geNorm, NormFinder, BestKeeper, and RefFinder. The results showed that the amplification efficiencies of all primers ranged from 95.0% to 107.2%, and the Ct values of the candidate genes ranged from 17.31 to 30.99. Comprehensive analysis using RefFinder showed that ACTIN was the most stable gene under ABA and NaCl treatments, EF1α under heat and wounding treatments, CAP under JA and high pH treatments, APRT under cold treatment, and TUB under drought treatment. geNorm analysis indicated that two reference genes were sufficient for accurate normalization under each treatment condition. The reliability of the screening results was further confirmed by expression-level validation of LcbZIP46, LcWRKY5, and LcFIN1. This study provides a stable reference gene system for RT-qPCR-based expression analysis in Leymus chinensis under environmental stress conditions.
Nine new species of the families Cyphellaceae and Mycenaceae are described from Asia, China, and Pakistan on the basis of detailed morphological and molecular investigations. Seven species belong to the genus Mycena (M. albomarginata, M. oblongispora, M. lavendula, M. longnanensis, M. minispora, M. pakistanica, and M. tephroleuca), and one species each belongs to Atheniella and Phloeomana. These Mycena species belong to three sections. Five Mycena species, i.e., M. lavendula, M. longnanensis, M. minispora, M. pakistanica, and M. tephroleuca, have been assigned to Mycena sect. Calodontes, while one species (M. albomarginata) belongs to Mycena sect. Mycena and one (M. oblongispora) to Mycena sect. Fragilipedes. All of the new species are supported by phylogenetic analyses based on the nuclear internal transcribed spacer (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA and translation elongation factor 1-alpha (tef1-α).Long Fei Fan, Arooj Naseer, Ammara Khalid, Abdul Nasir Khalid, Yan Deng, Chen Yan Wang, Yuan Wang, Si Xuan Ma.
Arundo donax is a gramineous plant with economic value and green energy potential. However, the fungal resources of A. donax have rarely been explored. In 2025, fungi on A. donax were collected and isolated from wetlands in Jiangxi Province, China. Two saprobic fungal isolates were identified based on morphological characteristics and multigene phylogeny, combined with DNA sequence data of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS), part of the large subunit nuclear rRNA gene (LSU), the translation elongation factor 1-alpha gene (tef1-α), and the second largest subunit of the RNA polymerase II gene (rpb2). Two new species, Lentimurispora arundinis and Stachylidium arundinis, are reported. Illustrations, detailed descriptions, and in-depth phylogenetic analyses of all identified species are provided.YinRu Xiong, Ishara S. Manawasinghe, MiaoMiao Zhang, Qiong Ren, LiYing Zhou.
Fanconi anemia (FA) is a rare recessive genetic disorder resulting from mutations in genes in the FA-DNA repair pathway. Among its subtypes, FA complementation group C (FANCC) is associated with particularly severe hematologic and developmental manifestations. Gene therapy targeting autologous hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs) from FA patients represents a promising curative strategy for FA-associated bone marrow failure (BMF), potentially circumventing the limitations of allogeneic transplantation. Despite substantial progress in developing gene therapy for FA group A (FANCA mutations), therapeutic strategies for FA group C have received comparatively little attention. Although FA-deficient cells are believed to exhibit compromised homologous recombination (HDR), our reporter assay demonstrated that Fancc -/- mouse HSPCs retain HDR activity, supporting the feasibility of precise gene editing. Building on this finding, we established a CRISPR-Cas9/AAV6-HDR platform to integrate Fancc cDNA into its endogenous locus while minimizing off-target effects and AAV integration. Correction of Fancc -/- HSPCs restored Fancc expression, rescued colony-forming capacity, and improved cellular viability. Importantly, transplantation of corrected HSPCs into Fancc -/- mice conferred resistance to mitomycin C-induced BMF, demonstrating durable in vivo functional correction. Collectively, these results establish CRISPR-Cas9-mediated HDR as a viable and potential therapeutic strategy for FA group C.© 2026 The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 40999994 is a review article
Loss of nucleus pulposus (NP) cells is as one of the primary factors initiating intervertebral disc (IVD) degeneration (IVDD); however, the intrinsic physiological mechanisms of endogenous NP-derived stem cell (NPSC)-based therapy in IVDD remain poorly understood. Disturbed iron homeostasis is commonly observed in degenerative diseases, and an acidic microenvironment has been considered a crucial factor in IVDD. The molecular mechanism of ferroptosis in acidic microenvironments during IVDD has not been reported. Herein, we intended to investigate whether acidic conditions can induce ferroptosis in NPSCs and explore the mechanism of IVDD progression through NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy, which is a type of selective autophagy mediating ferroptosis. The role of ring-box 1 (RBX1) in NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy in NPSC ferroptosis and IVDD pathogenesis was also explored. First, clinical epidemiology research revealed that a reduction in serum ferritin level was an independent risk factor for IVDD. We then demonstrated that ferroptosis progressively increased in human NP tissues as IVDD advanced and the acidic conditions induced ferroptosis-associated decline in cell viability, reactive oxygen species accumulation, and extracellular matrix degradation in human NPSCs. In an acidic microenvironment, ferroptosis is promoted due to enhanced NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy in NPSCs. A mechanistic study demonstrated that RBX1-mediated ubiquitination modulated NCOA4 expression and the inhibition of RBX1 promoted ferroptosis through NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy in the human NPSCs. Our in vivo study further illustrated that RBX1 overexpression ameliorated ferroptotic effects on IVDD progression by suppressing NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy. Results demonstrated the modulating role of RBX1 in NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy and NPSC ferroptosis, providing valuable insights into the potential application of endogenous stem cell-based IVD self-repair and self-regeneration for IVDD treatment.© 2025. The Author(s).
Postmitotic skeletal muscle critically depends on tightly regulated protein degradation to maintain proteomic stability. Impaired macroautophagy/autophagy-lysosomal or ubiquitin-proteasomal protein degradation causes the accumulation of damaged proteins, ultimately accelerating muscle dysfunction with age. While in vitro studies have demonstrated the complementary nature of these systems, their interplay at the organism levels remains poorly understood. Here, our study reveals novel insights into this complex relationship in autophagy-deficient skeletal muscle. We demonstrated that despite a compensatory increase in proteasome level in response to autophagy impairment, 26S proteasome activity was not proportionally enhanced in autophagy-deficient skeletal muscle. This functional deficit was partly attributed to reduced ATP levels to fuel the 26S proteasome. Remarkably, we found that activation of EIF4EBP1, a crucial inhibitor of cap-dependent translation, restored and even augmented proteasomal function through dual mechanisms. First, genetically activating EIF4EBP1 enhanced both ATP-dependent 26S proteasome and ATP-independent 20S proteasome activities, thereby expanding overall protein degradation capacity. Second, EIF4EBP1 activation caused muscle fiber transformation and increased mitochondrial biogenesis, thus replenishing ATP levels for 26S proteasome activation. Notably, the improved performance of the 20S proteasome in EIF4EBP1-activated skeletal muscle was attributed to an increased abundance of the immunoproteasome, a subtype specially adapted to function under oxidative stress conditions. This dual action of EIF4EBP1 activation preserved proteomic integrity in autophagy-deficient skeletal muscle. Our findings uncover a novel role of EIF4EBP1 in improving protein quality control, presenting a promising therapeutic strategy for autophagy-related muscular disorders and potentially other conditions characterized by proteostatic imbalance.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ACAC/ACC: acetyl-Coenzyme A carboxylase; AMPK: AMP-activated protein kinase; ATG5: autophagy related 5; ATG7: autophagy related 7; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; ATP5F1A/ATP5A: ATP synthase F1 subunit alpha; CKM-Cre: creatine kinase, muscle-Cre; CMA: chaperone-mediated autophagy; CTSB: cathepsin B; CTSK: cathepsin K; CTSL: cathepsin L; CUL3: cullin 3; EDL: extensor digitorum longus; EIF4E: eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E; EIF4EBP1: eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; EIF4F: eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4F complex; FBXO32/ATROGIN1/MAFbx: F-box protein 32; GFP: green fluorescent protein; IFNG/IFN-γ: interferon gamma; KEAP1: kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1; LAMP1: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1; LAMP2: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 2; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; MEF: mouse embryonic fibroblast; Myl1/Mlc1f-Cre: myosin, light polypeptide 1 (promoter driving Cre recombinase); mRFP: monomeric red fluorescent protein; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MTORC1: MTOR complex 1; NFE2L1/NRF1: nuclear factor, erythroid derived 2, like 1; NFE2L2/NRF2: nuclear factor, erythroid derived 2, like 2; NFKB1/NFκB1: nuclear factor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in B cells 1, p105; OXPHOS: oxidative phosphorylation; PPARGC1A/PGC1α: peroxisome proliferator activated receptor, gamma, coactivator 1 alpha; PSMB5: proteasome (prosome, macropain) subunit, beta type 5; PSMB6: proteasome (prosome, macropain) subunit, beta type 6; PSMB7: proteasome (prosome, macropain) subunit, beta type 7; PSMB8: proteasome (prosome, macropain) subunit, beta type 8 (large multifunctional peptidase 7); PSMB9: proteasome (prosome, macropain) subunit, beta type 9 (large multifunctional peptidase 2); PSMB10: proteasome (prosome, macropain) subunit, beta type 10; PSME1: proteasome (prosome, macropain) activator subunit 1 (PA28 alpha); PSME2: proteasome (prosome, macropain) activator subunit 2 (PA28 beta); RBX1: ring-box 1; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; SREBF1/SREBP1: sterol regulatory element binding transcription factor 1; STAT3: signal transducer and activator of transcription 3; TRIM63/MURF1: tripartite motif-containing 63; ULK1: unc-51 like kinase 1; UPS: ubiquitin-proteasome system.
Tuberculosis (TB), caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb), remains a significant global public health issue with high mortality rates and challenges posed by drug-resistant strains, emphasizing the continued need for new therapeutic targets and effective treatment strategies. Transcriptomics is a highly effective tool for the development of novel anti-tuberculosis drugs. However, most studies focus only on changes in gene expression levels at specific time points. This study screened for genes with altered expression patterns from available transcriptomic data and analysed their association with the TB progression. Initially, a total of 1228 genes with altered expression patterns were identified through two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA). We define genes with a P-value less than 0.05 for the combined effect of infection and time on gene expression as those with altered expression patterns. Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis revealed that the biological functions of these genes mainly involve DNA translation, RNA processing, and transcriptional regulation. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis indicated that these genes are primarily associated with fatty acid degradation, pyruvate metabolism, arginine and proline metabolism, as well as cholesterol metabolism signaling pathways. Subsequent Protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis and Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve analysis identified four core genes closely associated with TB progression, namely Rac Family Small GTPase 1 (RAC1), Ring-Box 1 (RBX1), Mitochondrial Ribosomal Protein L33 (MRPL33), and ELAV Like RNA Binding Protein 1 (ELAVL1). Q-PCR experiments confirmed that Mtb infection led to changes in the gene expression patterns of RAC1, RBX1, MRPL33, and ELAVL1 in THP-1 cells. These four genes may serve as core biomarkers for TB progression and can be utilized in the development of more effective anti-tuberculosis drugs and host therapy.© 2025. The Author(s).
Ubiquitination is one of the most important post-translational modifications in eukaryotes. The ubiquitination cascade includes ubiquitin-activating enzymes (E1), ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes (E2), and ubiquitin ligases (E3). The E3 ligases, responsible for substrate recognition, are the most abundant and varied proteins in the cascade and the most studied. SKP1-CUL1-F-Box (SCF)-type E3 ubiquitin ligases are multi-subunit RING (Really Interesting New Gene) E3 ubiquitin ligases, composed of CUL1 (Cullin 1), RBX1 (RING BOX 1), SKP1 (S-phase Kinase-associated Protein 1), and F-box proteins. In vitro ubiquitination assays, used for studying the specific recognition of substrate proteins by E3 ubiquitin ligases, require the purification of all components involved in the cascade, and for assays with SCF-type E3 ligases, additional proteins (several SCF complex subunits). Here, the Duet expression system was used to co-express E1, E2, ubiquitin, ubiquitylation target (substrate), and the four subunits of a SCF-type E3 ligase in E. coli. When these proteins co-exist in bacterial cells, ubiquitination occurs and can be detected by Western Blot. The effectiveness of this bacterial system for detecting ubiquitination cascade activity was demonstrated by replicating both AtSCFTIR1-mediated and human SCFFBXO28-mediated ubiquitylation in bacteria. This system provides a basic but adaptable platform for the study of SCF-type E3 ubiquitin ligases.
AQP3 (aquaporin 3 (Gill blood group)), a member of the AQP family, is an aquaglyceroporin which transports water, glycerol and small solutes across the plasma membrane. Beyond its role in fluid transport, AQP3 plays a significant role in regulating various aspects of tumor cell behavior, including cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Nevertheless, the underlying regulatory mechanism of AQP3 in tumors remains unclear. Here, for the first time, we report that AQP3 is a direct target for ubiquitination by the SCFFBXW5 complex. In addition, we revealed that downregulation of FBXW5 significantly induced AQP3 expression to prompt macroautophagic/autophagic cell death in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells. Mechanistically, AQP3 accumulation induced by FBXW5 knockdown led to the degradation of PDPK1/PDK1 in a lysosomal-dependent manner, thus inactivating the AKT-MTOR pathway and inducing autophagic death in HCC. Taken together, our findings revealed a previously undiscovered regulatory mechanism through which FBXW5 degraded AQP3 to suppress autophagic cell death via the PDPK1-AKT-MTOR axis in HCC cells.Abbreviation: BafA1: bafilomycin A1; CQ: chloroquine; CRL: CUL-Ring E3 ubiquitin ligases; FBXW5: F-box and WD repeat domain containing 5; HCC: hepatocellular carcinoma; HSPA8/HSC70: heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 8; 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; PDPK1/PDK1: 3-phosphoinositide dependent protein kinase 1; RBX1/ROC1: ring-box 1; SKP1: S-phase kinase associated protein 1; SCF: SKP1-CUL1-F-box protein.
Multi-walled carbon nanotube (MWCNT) exposure was observed to cause damages on the viability of ocular cells, however, the underlying mechanisms remain not well understood. Epigenetic alterations that regulate gene expression have been identiﬁed as a major responsiveness to environmental challenge. Thus, the aim of this study was to screen methylation-regulated genes involved in MWCNT exposure. The Illumina Human Methylation 850 K array was employed to determine the genome-wide DNA methylation profile of human retinal pigment epithelial cell line (ARPE-19) exposed to 50% inhibition concentration of MWCNTs (100 μg/ml) for 24 h or without (n = 3 for each group). Then, the transcriptome data obtained by high-throughput RNA sequencing previously were integrated with DNA methylome to identify the overlapped genes. As a result, the integrative bioinformatics analysis identified that compared with controls, FA complementation group C (FANCC) was hypermethylated and downregulated in MWCNT-exposed ARPE-19 cells. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis confirmed the mRNA expression level of FANCC was significantly decreased following MWCNT treatment and the addition of DNA methylation inhibitor 5-Aza-deoxycytidine (10 μM) reversed this decrease. Pyrosequencing analysis further validated the hypermethylation status at the 5'-untranslated promoter region of FANCC (cg14583550) in MWCNT-exposed ARPE-19 cells. Protein-protein interaction network and function analyses predicted that FANCC may contribute to MWCNT-induced cytotoxicity by interacting with heat shock protein 90 beta family member 1 and then upregulating cytokine interleukin-6 and apoptosis biomarker caspase 3. In conclusion, the present study links the epigenetic modification of FANCC with the pathogenesis of MWCNT-induced retinal toxicity.Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Multiple myeloma (MM) is a clonal disease of plasma cells that remains, for the most part, incurable despite the advent of several novel therapeutics. The elevated expression of p27 and its association with cell-cycle arrest is speculated to be one of the major mechanisms by which MM cells escape the cytotoxic effects of therapeutic agents. In this study, we demonstrated that RBX1 silencing could inhibit MM cell growth and promote cell drug resistance. RBX1 directly interacted with and triggered the ubiquitination and degradation of p27, ultimately causing p27 reduction. Additionally, cell growth and apoptosis analysis indicated that the role of RBX1 in regulating myeloma cell proliferation and drug resistance resulted from p27 accumulation, which occurred in a Thr187 phosphorylation-dependent manner. Furthermore, the cell-cycle analysis demonstrated that RBX1 overexpression induced cells to enter the cell cycle (S-phase) and partially inhibited chemotherapeutic drugs-mediated cell cycle arrest. Notably, the forced expression of RBX1 also inhibited the cell adhesion-mediated elevation of p27 and induced the accumulation of adherent cells in apoptosis, especially the proteolytic cleavage of caspase-3. Additionally, RBX1 knockdown significantly inhibited myeloma development in SCID-Hu mice and in a human MM xenotransplant model. Overall, these in vitro and in vivo experiments indicated that the RBX1-p27 axis could be a central molecular mechanism by which RBX1 functions as a tumor promoter and stimulates cell growth in chemotherapeutic drugs treated MM cells.
Chemoresistance is a major cause of cancer therapy failure. Increasing evidence points to the importance of histone lysine demethylase function, whose dysregulation has been described in several types of cancer. KDM5, a family of histone lysine demethylases, may carry out a key role in the downregulation of tumor‑suppressors or upregulation of oncogenes and in the development of drug tolerance. The present study examined the expression of KDM5D in cell lines derived from high‑risk neuroblastoma. The present study found that KDM5D expression was lost in all cisplatin‑chemoresistant neuroblastoma cell lines compared with sensitive parental cells. In addition, the cisplatin‑chemoresistant neuroblastoma cell line had increased expression of the ubiquitin ligase cullinaA 4A (CUL4A) compared with the sensitive parental cells. CUL4A carries out a role in cellular processes and its aberrant regulation has been observed in a number of types of cancer. The present study shows that silencing of KDM5D causes a more aggressive phenotype of neuroblastoma by promoting cell proliferation and migration, evading cell death, promoting S phase of the cell cycle and desensitizing sensitive cells to cisplatin via the gene CUL4A. In addition, ectopic expression of KMD5D in a cisplatin‑resistant cell line reversed these phenomena. The results suggest that KDM5D and/or CUL4A may be a biomarkers of chemoresistance to cisplatin and a potential therapeutic target in neuroblastoma.
Hepatocytes can resume proliferation to replenish the loss of liver mass following liver injury in a process known as liver regeneration. In the present study we investigated the role of GATA4, a zinc finger-containing transcription factor, in this process.Liver regeneration was modeled in vitro by treating primary hepatocytes with hepatocytes growth factor (HGF). Liver regeneration was modeled in mice subjected to partial hepatectomy (PHx) or acetaminophen (APAP) injection.We report that GATA4 expression was up-regulated in hepatocytes at both transcriptional and post-translational levels during liver regeneration. c-Jun bound to the Gata4 promoter and activated Gata4 transcription. In addition, the ubiquitin E3 ligase Cullin 4a (Cul4a) interacted with GATA4 to promote its degradation; down-regulation of Cul4a enabled GATA4 stabilization and accumulation. GATA4 knockdown attenuated HGF-induced proliferation of hepatocytes in vitro and weakened liver regeneration following PHx or APAP injection in mice. Importantly, GATA4 expression was detected to be positively correlated with proliferation of hepatocytes and inversely correlated with liver injury in patients with acute liver failure.Our data unveil a novel role of GATA4 in liver regeneration and its implication in acute liver failure.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The central role in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is played by fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS), which drive disease progression through aberrant proliferation, recruitment of inflammatory cells, and subsequent degradation of cartilage and bone. Cullin 4A (CUL4A) is an important member of the Cullin family, which is a scaffolding protein for the E3 ubiquitin ligase complex. In this study, we investigated the functional significance and molecular mechanisms of CUL4A in the pathogenesis of RA. We identified elevated CUL4A expression in synovial tissues, TNFα-stimulated FLS, and peripheral blood mononuclear cells from RA patients. Furthermore, CUL4A mRNA expression levels showed a positive correlation with both clinical disease activity and inflammatory markers in RA. Knockdown of CUL4A led to a marked suppression of both cytokine production and glycolytic metabolism in FLS in vitro. RNA sequencing analysis and validation revealed the PI3K/AKT pathway as a key mediator in this process, with a significant functional interaction between CUL4A and fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2). Furthermore, knocking down FGF2 significantly inhibited synovial inflammation in RA FLS. In vivo experiments, knocking down CUL4A significantly reduced synovial inflammation in K/BxN serum transfer-induced arthritis (STA) mice and inhibited glycolytic metabolism. In conclusion, our findings reveal that CUL4A, via FGF2 binding, initiates PI3K/AKT pathway signaling, fostering the glycolysis process and synovial inflammation. Consequently, CUL4A holds significant promise as a target for early intervention against this pathogenic cascade.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
We designed Proteolysis Targeting Chimeras (PROTACs) to target Tropomyosin Receptor Kinase A (TRKA) and Rearranged during Transfection (RET) oncogenic proteins. We analyzed a series of 22 PROTACs, based on the RET and TRKA small molecule inhibitor Pz-1 and ligands of E3 ligase complex component Cereblon (CRBN). The compounds were tested in TPC-1 and KM12 cells, derived from papillary thyroid carcinoma and colorectal carcinoma, and harboring the CCDC6-RET and TPM3-TRKA oncoproteins, respectively. We identified several RET and TPM3-TRKA PROTACs, able to induce their degradation. Consistently, one of the most active degraders, compound 9, exhibited a strong anti-proliferative effect in several cancer cell lines derived from human medullary and papillary thyroid, lung and colon cancers, displaying either RET or TRKA-derived oncoproteins, with an IC50 dose of one digit nM. Mechanistically, TPM3-TRKA degradation by compound 9 was dependent on CRBN-mediated polyubiquitination and proteasomal degradation; accordingly, it was hindered by inhibitors of the proteasome (MG132) or Cullins (MLN4924), by dominant negative Cullin 4A mutant, and by free pomalidomide. Saturating amounts of compound 9 featured loss of activity, consistently with the bivalent binding of a PROTAC ("hook effect"). Finally, a compound 9 derivative, compound 20, induced in vivo degradation of TMP3-TRKA in KM12 cells mouse xenografts. In conclusion, our study indicated that PROTAC-mediated degradation is an efficient strategy to intercept RET and TRKA oncogenic signaling.© 2025. The Author(s).
Thalidomide is an infamous drug used initially as a sedative until it was tragically discovered it has highly teratogenic properties. Despite this it is now being used to successfully treat a range of clinical conditions including erythema nodosum leprosum (ENL) and multiple myeloma (MM). Cereblon (CRBN), a ubiquitin ligase, is a binding target of thalidomide for both its therapeutic and teratogenic activities and forms part of an CRL4-E3 ubiquitin ligase complex with the proteins Damaged DNA Binding protein 1 (DDB1) and Cullin-4A (CUL4A). This complex mediates degradation of the zinc-finger transcription factors Ikaros (IKZF1) and Aiolos (IKZF3), to mediate thalidomide's anti-myeloma response. To better understand the importance of CRBN and its binding partners for thalidomide teratogenesis here we analysed the expression patterns of CRBN and some of its known E3 complex binding partners in wildtype and thalidomide-treated chicken and zebrafish embryos. CRBN and DDB1 are expressed in many tissues throughout development including those that are thalidomide-sensitive while CUL4A and targets of the CRL4-CRBN E3 Ligase Complex IKZF1 and IKZF3 are expressed at different timepoints and in fewer tissues in the body than CRBN. Furthermore, IKZF3 is expressed in tissues of the eye that CRBN is not. However, although we observed rapid changes to the chicken yolk-sac membrane vasculature following thalidomide exposure, we did not detect CRL4-CRBN E3 Ligase Complex expression in the yolk-sac membrane vessels. Furthermore, we did not detect any changes in CRBN, DDB1, CUL4, IKZF1 and IKZF3 expression following thalidomide exposure in chicken and zebrafish embryos. These findings demonstrate that the anti-angiogenic activities of thalidomide may occur independent of CRBN and that thalidomide does not regulate CRL4-CRBN E3 Ligase Complex gene expression at the mRNA level.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Lysosomes are the major cellular organelles responsible for nutrient recycling and degradation of cellular material. Maintenance of lysosomal integrity is essential for cellular homeostasis and lysosomal membrane permeabilization (LMP) sensitizes toward cell death. Damaged lysosomes are repaired or degraded via lysophagy, during which glycans, exposed on ruptured lysosomal membranes, are recognized by galectins leading to K48- and K63-linked poly-ubiquitination (poly-Ub) of lysosomal proteins followed by recruitment of the macroautophagic/autophagic machinery and degradation. Linear (M1) poly-Ub, catalyzed by the linear ubiquitin chain assembly complex (LUBAC) E3 ligase and removed by OTULIN (OTU deubiquitinase with linear linkage specificity) exerts important functions in immune signaling and cell survival, but the role of M1 poly-Ub in lysosomal homeostasis remains unexplored. Here, we demonstrate that L-leucyl-leucine methyl ester (LLOMe)-damaged lysosomes accumulate M1 poly-Ub in an OTULIN- and K63 Ub-dependent manner. LMP-induced M1 poly-Ub at damaged lysosomes contributes to lysosome degradation, recruits the NFKB (nuclear factor kappa B) modulator IKBKG/NEMO and locally activates the inhibitor of NFKB kinase (IKK) complex to trigger NFKB activation. Inhibition of lysosomal degradation enhances LMP- and OTULIN-regulated cell death, indicating pro-survival functions of M1 poly-Ub during LMP and potentially lysophagy. Finally, we demonstrate that M1 poly-Ub also occurs at damaged lysosomes in primary mouse neurons and induced pluripotent stem cell-derived primary human dopaminergic neurons. Our results reveal novel functions of M1 poly-Ub during lysosomal homeostasis, LMP and degradation of damaged lysosomes, with important implications for NFKB signaling, inflammation and cell death.Abbreviation: ATG: autophagy related; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; CALCOCO2/NDP52: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; CRISPR: clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats; CHUK/IKKA: component of inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase complex; CUL4A-DDB1-WDFY1: cullin 4A-damage specific DNA binding protein 1-WD repeat and FYVE domain containing 1; DGCs: degradative compartments; DIV: days in vitro; DUB: deubiquitinase/deubiquitinating enzyme; ELDR: endo-lysosomal damage response; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complex required for transport; FBXO27: F-box protein 27; GBM: glioblastoma multiforme; IKBKB/IKKB: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit beta; IKBKG/NEMO: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase regulatory subunit gamma; IKK: inhibitor of NFKB kinase; iPSC: induced pluripotent stem cell; KBTBD7: kelch repeat and BTB domain containing 7; KO: knockout; LAMP1: lysosomal associated membrane protein 1; LCD: lysosomal cell death; LGALS: galectin; LMP: lysosomal membrane permeabilization; LLOMe: L-leucyl-leucine methyl ester; LOP: loperamide; LUBAC: linear ubiquitin chain assembly complex; LRSAM1: leucine rich repeat and sterile alpha motif containing 1; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MTORC1: MTOR complex 1; NBR1: NBR1 autophagy cargo receptor; NFKB/NF-κB: nuclear factor kappa B; NFKBIA/IĸBα: nuclear factor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in B-cells inhibitor alpha; OPTN: optineurin; ORAS: OTULIN-related autoinflammatory syndrome; OTULIN: OTU deubiquitinase with linear linkage specificity; RING: really interesting new gene; RBR: RING-in-between-RING; PLAA: phospholipase A2 activating protein; RBCK1/HOIL-1: RANBP2-type and C3HC4-type zinc finger containing 1; RNF31/HOIP: ring finger protein 31; SHARPIN: SHANK associated RH domain interactor; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; SR-SIM: super-resolution-structured illumination microscopy; TAX1BP1: Tax1 binding protein 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; TH: tyrosine hydroxylase; TNF/TNFα: tumor necrosis factor; TNFRSF1A/TNFR1-SC: TNF receptor superfamily member 1A signaling complex; TRIM16: tripartite motif containing 16; Ub: ubiquitin; UBE2QL1: ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 QL1; UBXN6/UBXD1: UBX domain protein 6; VCP/p97: valosin containing protein; WIPI2: WD repeat domain, phosphoinositide interacting 2; YOD1: YOD1 deubiquitinase.
HIV-1 can integrate viral DNA into host cell chromosomes and establish a long-term stable latent viral reservoir, a major obstacle in curing HIV-1 infection. The reactivation of latent proviruses with latency-reversing agents (LRAs) is a prerequisite for the eradication of viral reservoirs. Previous reports have shown that tannic acid (TA) exerts several biological functions, including antioxidant and antitumor activities. Here, we identified a novel function of TA as a reactivator of HIV-1 latency. TA showed similar features to the HIV-1 transactivator of transcription (Tat) and was able to reactivate a larger number of proviruses from various integration sites. TA also showed a strong synergistic effect with other LRAs acting on different signaling pathways. Further studies revealed that the polycomb repressive complex 1 component, chromobox protein homolog 4 (CBX4), is specifically degraded by TA through ubiquitination. CBX4 is associated with the tri-methylation at lysine 27 of histone H3 (H3K27me3) which was enriched on HIV-1 long terminal repeat regions. The TA-induced CBX4 degradation decreased the H3K27me3 enrichment and subsequently enhanced the transcriptional activity of the integrated proviruses. These results suggest that TA is an efficient LRA aiming to a new target for HIV-1 latency, which could be developed to eradicate latent proviruses.IMPORTANCEHIV-1 remains a global health challenge, with its ability to integrate into the host genome and evade the effects of drugs. To overcome this obstacle, the "shock and kill" strategy was proposed, targeting the reactivation of latent HIV-1 for subsequent eradication through antiretroviral medication and immune system reinforcement. Here, we found a new reactivator for HIV-1 latency, tannic acid (TA), which can reactivate HIV-1 latency widely and deeply. Moreover, we demonstrated that TA could promote the interaction between the polycomb repressive complex 1 component CBX4 and the E3 ubiquitin ligase cullin 4A (CUL4A), resulting in CBX4 degradation through the ubiquitin-proteasome system. These events reduce H3K27me3 enrichment in the HIV-1 long terminal repeat region, thereby promoting HIV-1 transcription and ultimately reactivating HIV-1 latent infection. Our work may facilitate the identification of new latency-reversing agents and provide more theoretical evidence for the molecular mechanism of HIV-1 latency.
Skipped: PubMed ID 38539501 is a review article
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is an aggressive malignancy with dismal prognosis. Genomic instability due to defects in cell-cycle regulation/mitosis or deficient DNA-damage repair is a major driver of PDAC progression with clinical relevance. Deregulation of licensing of DNA replication leads to DNA damage and genomic instability, predisposing cells to malignant transformation. While overexpression of DNA replication-licensing factors has been reported in several human cancer types, their role in PDAC remains largely unknown. We aimed here to examine the expression and prognostic significance of the DNA replication-licensing factors chromatin licensing and DNA replication factor 1 (CDT1), cell-division cycle 6 (CDC6), minichromosome maintenance complex component 7 (MCM7) and also of the ubiquitin ligase regulator of CDT1, cullin 4A (CUL4A), in PDAC.Expression levels of CUL4, CDT1, CDC6 and MCM7 were evaluated by immunohistochemistry in 76 formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded specimens of PDAC patients in relation to DNA-damage response marker H2AX, clinicopathological parameters and survival. We also conducted bioinformatics analysis of data from online available databases to corroborate our findings.CUL4A and DNA replication-licensing factors were overexpressed in patients with PDAC and expression of CDT1 positively correlated with H2AX. Expression of CUL4A and CDT1 positively correlated with lymph node metastasis. Importantly, elevated CUL4A expression was associated with reduced overall survival and was an independent indicator of poor prognosis on multivariate analysis.Our findings implicate CUL4A, CDT1, CDC6 and MCM7 in PDAC progression and identify CUL4A as an independent prognostic factor for this disease.Copyright © 2024, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Mycoplasma pneumoniae (MP) infection directly damages lung tissue and triggers dysregulated immune responses, yet the immunopathology underlying the severe pneumonia remains unknown. Here we analyzed cellular and molecular features in the peripheral blood and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from patients to define the systemic immune landscape associates with severity of MP pneumonia (MPP). Cytokine and cellular profiling found severe MPP is associated with type I inflammation potentiated by γδ T and NK T cells. Severe MPP patients were found to have significantly enriched autoantibodies targeting non-protein antigens such as double-stranded DNA, phosphatidylserine and cardiolipin, and a broad panel of peptide antigen such as Cullin 4B (CUL4B), a core component of the Cullin-RING ligase 4B (CRL4B) E3 ubiquitin ligase complex. Mechanistically, we identified elevated plasma cells correlating with increased autoantibody levels, as well as disease severity. These findings suggest a potential association between cellular immune responses and autoantibody generation, advancing our understanding of MPP pathogenesis and revealing novel potential therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The success of fertilization largely depends on semen quality. However, semen cryopreservation can impair sperm function and reduce conception rates, thereby hindering the repopulation of threatened species, including Eld's deer (Rucervus eldii). Despite its importance, information on the effects of cryopreservation on sperm protein composition in Eld's deer remains limited. This study investigated the proteomic profiles of sperm from Siamese and Burmese Eld's deer at three stages-fresh, pre-freeze, and post-thaw-using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Comparative analysis revealed distinct protein expression patterns across stages. A total of 2294 proteins were identified, of which 16 and 14 were significantly differentially expressed between fresh and pre-freeze sperm and between fresh and cryopreserved sperm, respectively. Increased levels of coiled-coil domain-containing protein 136 (CCDC136) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) in pre-freeze sperm suggested cytoskeletal stabilization and immune activation during cooling. Post-thaw sperm showed decreased levels of nucleoside diphosphate kinase A (NME1) and zinc finger protein-like 1 (ZFPL1), indicating metabolic and chromatin disruption, whereas elevated cullin-4B (CUL4B) and small ubiquitin-like modifier 1 (SUMO1) reflected activation of DNA repair and protein turnover pathways. These molecular alterations were consistent with reduced post-thaw motility, viability, and membrane and acrosome integrity, highlighting key stress-response mechanisms. The identified proteins may serve as biomarkers for semen quality assessment and inform optimized cryopreservation strategies, thereby supporting conservation efforts for Eld's deer.Copyright © 2026 Society for Biology of Reproduction & the Institute of Animal Reproduction and Food Research of Polish Academy of Sciences in Olsztyn. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Following the publication of this paper, it was drawn to the Editor's attention by a concerned reader that there was a possible duplication of cell‑cycle analysis data shown in Fig. 4A on p. 4977. The authors were contacted by the Editorial Office to offer an explanation for this apparent anomaly in the presentation of the data in this paper; however, up to this time, no response from them has been forthcoming. Owing to the fact that the Editorial Office has been made aware of potential issues surrounding the scientific integrity of this paper, we are issuing an Expression of Concern to notify readers of this potential problem while the Editorial Office continues to investigate this matter further. [Molecular Medicine Reports 17: 4973‑4980, 2018; DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2018.8509].
Fatty acid metabolism is critical for tumor progression, supplying bioenergetic and biosynthetic substrates to rapidly proliferating cancer cells. However, the precise mechanisms by which fatty acid metabolism influences breast cancer progression remain unclear. In this study, we aimed to explore the molecular mechanism by which C-Jun activation domain-binding protein-1 (JAB1) promotes breast cancer progression through regulating fatty acid metabolism. The JAB1 is identified as an oncogene in breast cancer. JAB1 promotes cell proliferation, invasion, and stemness by stabilizing CUL4B protein. Mechanistically, JAB1 forms a transcriptional repressor complex with the Cullin 4B-Ring E3 ligase (CRL4B) complex, co-occupying the promoters of key fatty acid metabolism genes, PPARG and ACSL5, thus leading to their transcriptional repression. This activates fatty acid metabolism, increasing mitochondrial oxygen consumption and supporting the energetic demands of tumor cells. Notably, JAB1 inhibition reverses chemotherapy resistance associated with CUL4B overexpression. These findings underscore the pivotal role of JAB1 in regulating breast cancer progression and indicate that JAB1 inhibitors could serve as promising therapeutics for patients with elevated CUL4B expression.© 2025. The Author(s).
As a component of the ubiquitin ligase complex, Cullin 4B (CUL4B) is involved in the process of ubiquitination of different substrates, controlling genome stability, nucleotide excision repair, and chromatin-remodeling. The mutations in the CUL4B gene are revealed to be a cause of Cabezas syndrome (OMIM 300354), a rare syndromic form of X-linked intellectual disability (XLID). In this study, whole-exome sequencing analysis and Sanger sequencing identified two maternally inherited likely pathogenetic variants (CUL4B, NM_001079872.2: c.803dupT/p. Leu268fs*5; c.953_957delTTATA/p. Ile318fs*2) in two probands, respectively. Patients carrying CUL4B variants presented with broad and variable phenotypic defects. The clinical manifestations of the two boys are consistent with Cabezas syndrome; however, they exhibit significant heterogeneity compared to previously reported cases. Phenotypic manifestations resulting from genetic variations may exhibit population differences and, in some cases, may present with concealed or latent expressions. Therefore, regular pediatric health check-ups and appropriate molecular diagnostic techniques are essential for the early detection, diagnosis, and treatment of such disorders. Our findings could be used to better define the genetic map in this area and will be valuable in the genetic diagnosis of the disease.Copyright © 2025 Lin, Yang, Zhang, Zhou, Li, Yi, Zhang, Yi, He, Qin and Luo.
Many circular RNAs (circRNAs) are frequently expressed in cancers and involved in cancer progression. Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is a malignancy with a high mortality rate. A previous study has shown that circ_0003520 is increased in ccRCC. However. The action of circ_0003520 in ccRCC progression and its possible mechanisms remain unclear. Levels of circ_0003520, miR-205-5p and cullin 4B (CUL4B) were examined by qRT-PCR and western blot. Cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8), 5-ethynyl-2' -deoxyuridine (EdU), flow cytometry, transwell, tube formation, and xenograft tumor assays were conducted to detect the effects of circ_0003520 on cRCC cell proliferation, apoptosis, migration, invasion, angiogenesis In Vitro, as well as tumor formation In Vivo. The binding between circ_0003520 or CUL4B and miR-205-5p was analyzed using dual-luciferase activity reporter assay and RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) assay. We found that circ_0003520 and CUL4B expression was increased and miR-205-5p expression was decreased in ccRCC tissues compared to normal tissues. Circ_0003520 knockdown inhibited the proliferation, migration, invasion, and angiogenesis and promoted apoptosis in ccRCC cells in vitro, as well as inhibited tumor formation In Vivo. Further mechanism analysis showed that the miR-205-5p/CUL4B axis was the downstream target pathway of circ_0003520. Circ_0003520 could up-regulate CUL4B through sequestering miR-205-5p. Functionally, miR-205-5p inhibition or CUL4B overexpression could recover the inhibition mediated by circ_0003520 knockdown on ccRCC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and angiogenesis, as well as the enhancement of cell apoptosis. Besides that, circ_0003520 also hindered tumor growth In Vivo via miR-205-5p/CUL4B axis. Circ_0003520 acts as an oncogene to promote ccRCC progression by regulating the miR-205-5p/CUL4B axis, indicating a promising strategy for suppressing ccRCC growth.© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40230836 is a review article
Thyroid cancer (TC) is a prevalent endocrine malignancy with a generally favorable prognosis. However, dedifferentiation of TC poses a significant challenge, resulting in poorer patient outcomes and necessitating urgent attention. Cullin 4B (CUL4B), a scaffold protein involved in proteolysis and epigenetic regulation, has been reported to play an oncogenic role in many human malignancies, though its involvement in TC remains unclear.The association between CUL4B expression and prognosis in TC patients was assessed using immunohistochemistry. RNA-seq was utilized to investigate the underlying molecular mechanisms, which were further validated through in vitro experiments. The target gene of CUL4B was identified, and the complete ubiquitination regulation process was described. The phenomenon of high expression of CUL4B in TC was explained by identifying that CUL4B-mediated regulation of the SWI/SNF complex.Our findings revealed that CUL4B expression was positively correlated with tumor progression and poor prognosis in TC. Mechanistically, overexpression of CUL4B promoted the progression and dedifferentiation of TC in vivo models. Crucially, we discovered that CUL4B drives dedifferentiation by promoting the ubiquitination of ARID1A within SWI/SNF complex, leading to decreased expression of the differentiation marker paired box 8 (PAX8). This loss of PAX8 contributes to the dedifferentiation process, ultimately resulting in the formation of anaplastic thyroid carcinoma (ATC). Moreover, silencing CUL4B increased the sensitivity of TC cells to MAPK inhibitors.CUL4B was crucial in driving tumor advancement and inhibiting differentiation in TC by facilitating the ubiquitin-mediated degradation of ARID1A, underscoring its potential as a therapeutic target.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Cullin 4B (CUL4B) is the scaffold protein in the CUL4B-RING E3 ubiquitin ligase (CRL4B) complex. Loss-of-function mutations in the human CUL4B gene result in syndromic X-linked intellectual disability (XLID). In addition to intellectual disability, patients with CUL4B mutations exhibit epilepsy. To date, the mechanism underlying epilepsy associated with CUL4B mutation has not been elucidated. Here, we show that male mice with Cul4b deleted in the nervous system are more susceptible to both pentylenetetrazole (PTZ)- and kainic acid (KA)-induced epilepsy and exhibit spontaneous epilepsy without any chemical inducers. We identify the CRL4B complex as an E3 ubiquitin ligase that targets GABA transporter 1 (GAT1). CUL4B deletion in male mice results in GAT1 accumulation and increased GABA reuptake, leading to impaired GABA-mediated inhibitory synaptic transmission. Treating CUL4B-deficient mice with the GAT1 inhibitor tiagabine effectively reverses the increased susceptibility to chemical-induced epilepsy and attenuates spontaneous epilepsy without the use of chemical inducers. We further confirm the role of CUL4B in the regulation of GAT1 levels and GABA uptake in neurons and astrocytes differentiated from induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) derived from patients with CUL4B loss-of-function mutations. Our work reveals a novel mechanism underlying the pathogenesis of epilepsy and identifies a promising drug target for treating CUL4B mutation-associated epilepsy.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.
Targeted protein degradation using proteolysis-targeting chimeras (PROTACs) has emerged as a powerful strategy for disease treatment. By recruiting E3 ligases, these molecules enable selective degradation of pathogenic proteins. Cereblon (CRBN), a key component of the CUL4-DDB1-CRBN E3 ligase complex, is the most commonly recruited E3 ligase in PROTACs, including those targeting histone deacetylases (HDACs). In this study, we designed SZ-2, a bifunctional molecule derived from the DDB1 ligand MM-02-57 and the HDAC inhibitor vorinostat, to simultaneously bind DDB1 and HDACs. SZ-2 effectively induced degradation of HDAC1 and HDAC2 and demonstrated potent anti-multiple myeloma activity, highlighting its potential as a novel therapeutic agent.© 2025 American Chemical Society.
Cullin-RING E3 ubiquitin ligases (CRLs), activated by neddylation, mediate the ubiquitination of ∼20 % of cellular proteins and are central to protein homeostasis. Within the CRL4 complex, the adaptor protein DDB1 (damage-specific DNA binding protein 1) links CUL4A/B to substrate receptors (DCAFs) and is essential for various cellular processes including DNA replication, cell proliferation or DNA damage repair. Here we show that inhibition of deneddylation destabilizes DDB1 by inducing CRL4-dependent autoubiquitination of its β-propeller A domain. Loss of DDB1, driven by CSN5i-dependent hyperactivation of CRL4 and consequent autoubiquitination, compromises CRL4 recruitment to chromatin, thereby impairing DNA replication and producing a cellular phenotype that closely resembles RepID deficiency despite intact RepID expression. Strikingly, deneddylation inhibition-induced depletion of DDB1 enhances cellular vulnerability to pharmacological inhibition of p97/valosin-containing protein (VCP) segregase, revealing an unanticipated synthetic interaction between CRL4 homeostasis and p97/VCP activity.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Targeted protein degradation (TPD) leverages the ubiquitin-proteasome system to eliminate disease-causing proteins via E3 ligases. To date, the field is limited to utilizing a few of the over 600 human E3 ligases. To expand this repertoire, we conducted structural and functional validation of DDB1 (Damage-specific DNA binding protein 1) and Cullin-associated factor (DCAF)2 (DTL/CDT2), a Cullin4-RING ligase substrate adaptor implicated in DNA damage response and cancer, as a novel E3 for TPD. Cryoelectron microscopy (cryo-EM) structures of the DCAF2:DDB1:DDA1 complex (3.3 Å), a ligand bound complex (3.1 Å), and a ternary complex with a covalent proteolysis-targeting chimera (PROTAC) and BRD4 (3.4 Å) reveal PROTAC-mediated substrate recruitment. Using covalent bifunctional tool compounds engaging residue C141 in the WD40 domain, we demonstrate robust ubiquitination in biochemical assays and cellular TPD using the COFFEE (covalent functionalization followed by E3 electroporation) method. These findings position DCAF2 as a promising E3 adaptor for PROTAC strategies and identify C141 as a relevant site for future PROTAC discovery.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is the predominant subtype of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Damage-specific DNA binding protein 1 (DDB1), as a core protein of the CUL4-DDB1 ubiquitin ligase complex, is involved in the regulation of DNA damage repair, epigenetic modification, and cell cycle checkpoint activation. While the involvement of DDB1 in tumour progression through DNA repair and RNA transcriptional regulation has been reported, its expression and role in LUAD remain to be elucidated. This study aims to investigate the expression and role of DDB1 in LUAD.The expression, clinicopathological features and prognosis of DDB1 in LUAD were analysed using databases such as UALCAN, Kaplan-Meier Plotter and GEPIA; The interaction network and enriched functional pathways were constructed by GeneMANIA and Metascape; the correlation between DDB1 and immune cells by combining with TISIDB infiltration was evaluated, and the clustering results of cell subtypes and the expression of DDB1 in different immune cell subpopulations were analysed by single-cell sequencing; finally, tissue microarrays were used to further verify the expression and prognostic value of DDB1 in LUAD.The mRNA and protein expression of DDB1 in LUAD tissues were significantly higher than those in normal tissues (P<0.01), and the high expression correlated with later clinical stage (P<0.001), lymph node metastasis (P<0.001) and poor prognosis (P<0.001). Functional enrichment showed that DDB1 was involved in DNA repair and RNA transcriptional regulation, and TISIDB evaluation revealed that DDB1 was negatively correlated with the expression level of immune cells, suggesting the potential regulation of the immune microenvironment. Single cell analysis showed that DDB1 was mainly expressed in T cells, alveolar macrophages and dendritic cells. Tissue microarrays confirmed that overall survival was shorter in the DDB1 high expression group (P<0.001), and Cox multifactorial analysis showed that DDB1 was an independent predictor of LUAD prognosis.DDB1 is highly expressed in LUAD, which is associated with poor prognosis, and is closely related to tumor immune cell infiltration, and is involved in tumourigenesis and development through DNA repair and RNA transcriptional regulation. DDB1 can be used as a potential prognostic marker and therapeutic target for LUAD.
Osimertinib is a third-generation Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) widely used to treat advanced non-small cell lung cancer with EGFR mutations. However, resistance to osimertinib frequently develops, limiting its long-term effectiveness.This study aimed to establish a lung cancer TKI-resistant model and identify Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) components that could reverse TKI resistance, enhancing lung cancer sensitivity to targeted therapies, while exploring the underlying molecular mechanisms.Osimertinib-resistant cell lines and organoids were developed using a dose-escalation approach. A screen of 302 traditional Chinese medicine monomers revealed compounds that increased sensitivity to osimertinib. RNA sequencing and limited proteolysis coupled with small molecule mapping were employed to investigate the molecular mechanisms by which jaceosidin reverses resistance. The efficacy of the jaceosidin and osimertinib combination was confirmed in cell lines, organoids, and a mouse model.The osimertinib-resistant lung cancer model was successfully established, and 12 compounds were identified that enhanced the sensitivity of resistant cells to osimertinib. Among these, Jaceosidin, a flavonoid compound derived from Eupatorium lindleyanum DC., was confirmed to notably increase osimertinib sensitivity. Mechanistic studies, including limited proteolysis and RNA interference analysis, demonstrated that Jaceosidin directly interacts with Damage Specific DNA Binding Protein 1 (DDB1), promoting its protein expression and downregulating CDK1/Cyclin B1 levels. This interaction induced G2/M cell cycle arrest, thereby sensitizing lung cancer cells to osimertinib. Furthermore, both in vitro and in vivo experiments confirmed that the combination of Jaceosidin and osimertinib significantly inhibited tumor growth in osimertinib-resistant models.These findings offer new insights into the role of DDB1 in overcoming osimertinib resistance and suggest that combining jaceosidin with osimertinib may serve as a promising therapeutic strategy to enhance the efficacy of EGFR-TKIs treatment in resistant Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC).Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Defects in the DNA damage response are associated with tumorigenesis, and circular RNAs (circRNAs) can also affect the occurrence and progression of cancer by regulating gene expression. However, the relationship between DNA damage in lung cancer and circRNAs remains unexplored. In this study, circ_0004470 was significantly upregulated in various lung cancer cells (H446, A549, H1299) as well as in carcinogenic animal models and clinical lung cancer samples. Circ_0004470 promoted DNA damage and cell cycle S phase arrest in human pulmonary bronchial epithelial cells, inhibited DNA repair, and accelerated malignant transformation in response to continuous DNA damage-inducing stimulation. Circ_0004470 inhibited DNA repair and cell cycle progression by binding specifically to the nucleotide excision repair complex Xeroderma pigmentosum group C-complementing protein and damage-specific DNA binding protein 1, thus interacting with the DNA damage response process and accelerating the accumulation of DNA damage. These findings suggest that circRNAs are involved in regulating genetic damage-associated lung cancer and provide insight into the mechanism by which circ_0004470 affects the DNA damage response during carcinogenesis.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Little is known about if and how circular RNAs (circRNAs) are involved in skeletal muscle atrophy. Here a conserved circular RNA Damage-specific DNA binding protein 1 (circDdb1), derived from the host gene encoding Damage-specific DNA binding protein 1 (DDB1), as a mechanism of muscle atrophy is identified. circDdb1 expression is markedly increased in a variety of muscle atrophy types in vivo and in vitro, and human aging muscle. Both in vivo and in vitro, ectopic expression of circDdb1 causes muscle atrophy. In contrast, multiple forms of muscle atrophy caused by dexamethasone, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), or angiotensin II (Ang II) in myotube cells, as well as by denervation, angiotensin II, and immobility in mice, are prevented by circDdb1 inhibition. Eukaryotic initiation factor 4A3 (EIF4A3) is identified as a regulator of circDdb1 expression in muscle atrophy, whereas circDdb1 encodes a novel protein, circDdb1-867aa. circDdb1-867aa binds with and increases the phosphorylation level of eukaryotic elongation factor 2 (eEF2) at Thr56 to reduce protein translation and promote muscle atrophy. In summary, these findings establish circDdb1 as a shared regulator of muscle atrophy across multiple diseases and a potential therapeutic target.© 2024 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 39113560 is a review article
Accumulating studies suggested that posttranscriptional modifications exert a vital role in the tumorigenesis of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). N4-acetylcytidine (ac4C) modification, catalyzed by the N-acetyltransferase 10 (NAT10), was a novel type of chemical modification that improves translation efficiency and mRNA stability.GEO databases and clinical samples were used to explore the expression and clinical value of NAT10 in DLBCL. CRISPER/Cas9-mediated knockout of NAT10 was performed to determine the biological functions of NAT10 in DLBCL. RNA sequencing, acetylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing (acRIP-seq), LC-MS/MS, RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP)-qPCR and RNA stability assays were performed to explore the mechanism by which NAT10 contributed to DLBCL progression.Here, we demonstrated that NAT10-mediated ac4C modification regulated the occurrence and progression of DLBCL. Dysregulated N-acetyltransferases expression was found in DLBCL samples. High expression of NAT10 was associated with poor prognosis of DLBCL patients. Deletion of NAT10 expression inhibited cell proliferation and induced G0/G1 phase arrest. Furthermore, knockout of NAT10 increased the sensitivity of DLBCL cells to ibrutinib. AcRIP-seq identified solute carrier family 30 member 9 (SLC30A9) as a downstream target of NAT10 in DLBCL. NAT10 regulated the mRNA stability of SLC30A9 in an ac4C-dependent manner. Genetic silencing of SLC30A9 suppressed DLBCL cell growth via regulating the activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) pathway.Collectively, these findings highlighted the essential role of ac4C RNA modification mediated by NAT10 in DLBCL, and provided insights into novel epigenetic-based therapeutic strategies.© 2024 The Author(s). Clinical and Translational Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Shanghai Institute of Clinical Bioinformatics.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41076361 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 33643814 is a review article
Hyperuricemia closely correlates with obesity, yet high uric acid (UA) is largely viewed as a consequence or biomarker of obesity rather than a causal driver. Integrating human clinical analyses with animal studies, we redefine UA as a liver-derived endocrine regulator that drives obesity by modulating gut ecology. UA remodels the gut microbiota, selectively depleting Lactobacillus johnsonii by disrupting peptidoglycan synthesis. This depletion reduces microbial phenyllactic acid (PLA)-a metabolite produced by L. johnsonii lactate dehydrogenase that we identify as an endogenous suppressor of intestinal peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα) signaling. Consequently, PPARα disinhibition upregulates fatty acid transporters, accelerating lipid absorption and promoting obesity. Leveraging human genetic data, we pinpoint lysine acetyltransferase 5 (TIP60) as a master regulator of hepatic UA production. Hepatic TIP60 ablation lowers UA, restoring the L. johnsonii-PLA axis and conferring obesity resistance. These findings establish a UA-driven liver-gut axis and nominate TIP60 inhibition as a dual-target therapy for obesity and hyperuricemia.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This research investigated the effects of DNA sequence on the single strand breaks (SSBs) and double strand breaks (DSBs) of DNA induced by Auger electron-emitting radionuclides in an atomic model of fibroblast cells using the Geant4-DNA toolkit. For this, two cells (C1 and C2) and their nuclei (N1 and N2), defined as homogeneous ellipsoids of liquid water of unit density, were considered. An atomic DNA model constructed in the Geant4-DNA toolkit was placed inside N1 and N2. While N1 solely consisted of Cytosine-Guanine (C-G) sequences, N2 contained a novel DNA sequence (damage-specific DNA-binding protein 2 (DDB2)), which has not been investigated to date. This sequence includes nucleotide motifs such as C-G, Adenine-Thymine (A-T), Guanine-Cytosine (G-C), and Thymine-Adenine (T-A). The total numbers of direct and indirect SSBs, DSBs, and hybrid DSBs (HDSBs), caused by five widely-used Auger electron-emitting radionuclides, including 99mTc, 111In, 123I, 125I, and 201Tl were quantified at the cellular level. The results show that the total DNA damage, from greatest to least, corresponds to 201Tl, 125I, 123I, 111In, and 99mTc. In addition, incorporating DDB2 base pairs (bp) into the DNA sequences increased the DNA damage by approximately 31% compared to the case with only C–G bp. The findings of the present study indicate that 201Tl and 125I, due to their higher decay yields of sub-1 keV electron emissions (enabling highly localized energy deposition within the DNA strands), are more effective candidates for inducing DNA strand breaks in a single tumour cell compared to 123I, 111In, and 99mTc.
Breast cancer (BC) remains the leading cause of global female cancer-related mortality, with poor survival in advanced stages driven largely by metastasis. Ubiquitination, a key post-translational modification, critically regulates the stability and function of various proteins, including oncoproteins and tumor suppressors, and deubiquitinases (DUBs) reversing this process are emerging therapeutic targets. In this study, we report that haploid germ cell-specific nuclear protein kinase (HASPIN) is highly expressed in BC and is closely associated with poor prognosis. We identify the DUB Otubain-2 (OTUB2) as a critical regulator of the oncogenic kinase HASPIN in BC. We demonstrate that OTUB2 binds to and deubiquitylates HASPIN, specifically counteracting its K48-linked polyubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation. Acetylation of HASPIN at lysine 751 by acetyltransferase lysine acetyltransferase 5 (KAT5) enhances its affinity for OTUB2, promoting HASPIN stability. Functionally, OTUB2 depletion reduces HASPIN protein levels, while OTUB2 overexpression-induced HASPIN upregulation drives BC cell proliferation and invasion both in vivo and in vitro. These findings establish OTUB2 as a novel DUB for HASPIN and reveal a previously unknown regulatory axis involving KAT5, acetylation, OTUB2, ubiquitination, and HASPIN, which is crucial for BC progression. Consequently, HASPIN acts as an oncogene in BC and represents a promising new therapeutic target for intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41609065 is a review article
Lung cancers are among the most widespread and deadly cancers worldwide. Although platinum-based chemotherapies such as cisplatin are standard treatments for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), their efficacy is often hindered by the development of drug resistance. The present study aimed to investigate the therapeutic potential and molecular mechanisms of quercetin in monotherapy and in combination treatment with cisplatin in NSCLC. In vitro and in vivo models of cisplatin-resistant NSCLC were employed to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of quercetin-cisplatin combination therapy. Comprehensive mechanistic investigations included lncRNA sequencing, Western blotting, immunofluorescence, malondialdehyde (MDA) quantification, reactive oxygen species (ROS) detection, microscale thermophoresis (MST), real-time quantitative PCR, and dual-luciferase reporter assays. This study examines the potential of combining quercetin with cisplatin to overcome chemoresistance in NSCLC models, focusing on the molecular pathways involved. We determined that ferroptosis is the primary cause of cell death induced by quercetin in NSCLC and associated animal models. As a master transcriptional factor, p53 orchestrates a diverse network of downstream effector genes. Research shows that constant expression of wild-type p53 in cancer cells induces ferroptosis, which is caused by inhibiting the xCT/GPX4 axis and managing iron homeostasis and lipid peroxidation pathways. We found that p53 knockdown inhibits quercetin's anticancer effects. Transcriptomics revealed significant alterations in the long non-coding DDB2-AS1, a new lncRNA sequence associated with damage-specific DNA binding protein 2 (DDB2), after quercetin treatment of cisplatin-resistant NSCLC. A further study showed that quercetin upregulates the expression of p53 by regulating the lncRNA DDB2-AS1/miR-4728-5p pathway, thereby inducing ferroptosis in cisplatin-resistant NSCLC cells, thus overcoming cisplatin resistance. These findings demonstrate that quercetin induces ferroptosis through the DDB2-AS1/miR-4728-5p/p53 axis, thereby reversing cisplatin resistance in NSCLC, and highlighting its potential as an effective adjuvant in NSCLC chemotherapy.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) is a type of progressive interstitial lung disease characterized by varying degrees of lung interstitial fibrosis. Lung alveolar regeneration failure in PF is critical for mediating this incurable disease. Here, we report that chronic lung injury induces the release of extracellular vesicles (EVs) from alveolar macrophages (AMs) to promote PF development by inhibiting alveolar regeneration. Mechanistically, the acetylation of mixed lineage kinase domain-like protein (MLKL), which is mediated by the upregulation of acetylase lysine acetyltransferase 5 (KAT5) following chronic lung injury, enhances its capacity to facilitate endosomal trafficking and the production of EVs from AMs. Those EVs, which are taken up by type 2 alveolar epithelial cells (AEC2s), release miR-148a-3p to repress the endogenous β-catenin agonist Wnt10b and exert an inhibitory effect on AEC2 renewal. Disruption of the KAT5-MLKL interaction or pharmacological inhibition of miR-148a-3p expression restores the regenerative capacity of AEC2s, with potent therapeutic efficacy in PF. Our study suggests a potential therapeutic option for PF.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cardiovascular disease remains a leading cause of mortality globally, with the adult mammalian heart exhibiting limited regenerative capacity. The chromatin regulatory network plays a crucial role in the dynamic changes in gene expression that orchestrate the regenerative response in the neonatal heart. This study aims to identify key chromatin regulators in neonatal cardiomyocytes and to elucidate their roles in heart regeneration.We generated genetic knockout mouse models by crossing Mrg15fl/fl and Tip60fl/fl mice with various Cre-driver lines such as Isl1-Cre and Myh6-MerCreMer to evaluate the function of MRG15 (MORF-related gene 15)/TIP60 in cardiac progenitor cells and cardiomyocytes during heart development and regeneration. The epigenetic regulation of cardiomyocyte proliferation by MRG15/TIP60 was investigated through a variety of methods, including histological, cellular, genomic, transcriptomic, computational, and pharmacological approaches. In addition, we assessed the regulation of transient MRG15 induction in the regenerating neonatal heart by CD4+ regulatory T cells through both adoptive transfer and monoclonal antibody-based depletion in mice.MRG15, but not its cofactor TIP60, was transiently expressed in neonatal cardiomyocytes, with its expression downregulated as the regenerative potential of the heart declined. We generated knockout mice targeting Mrg15 in cardiac progenitor cells and cardiomyocytes, revealing that MRG15 is critical for neonatal heart regeneration and plays a key role in regulating cardiomyocyte proliferation. Mechanistically, MRG15 forms an activator complex with TIP60, p300, and RNA polymerase II, facilitating histone acetylation at the Ccnd1 enhancer region. Furthermore, regulatory T cells were shown to induce MRG15 expression, promoting cardiomyocyte proliferation through paracrine signaling. Notably, adeno-associated virus 9-mediated overexpression of Mrg15 rescued the impaired heart regeneration after Treg depletion in vivo. Furthermore, recapitulating MRG15 expression into the juvenile heart promoted regeneration by enhancing cardiomyocyte proliferation.This study elucidates the critical role of regulatory T cells in regulating the transient expression of MRG15 in regenerating cardiomyocytes and its subsequent control of cardiomyocyte proliferation and heart regeneration through TIP60-mediated chromatin modification. Our findings highlight the important interplay between the cardiac and the immune system during neonatal development, particularly through the MRG15/TIP60 axis regulated by regulatory T cells. This cross-talk suggests promising therapeutic strategies for enhancing cardiac repair by targeting these pathways.
Phenolic compounds are recognized for antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and antidiabetic properties. Lentils are abundant in these compounds, yet comparative studies across varieties and intestinal cells effects remain limited. This study evaluated the nutritional composition, phenolic profile, antioxidant activity, and α-glucosidase inhibition of four lentil types in raw and cooked forms. L01 had the highest bioactive potential and was the only one selected for further evaluation in Caco-2 cells under basal and IL-1β-stimulated conditions. Cooking altered composition, leading to higher protein, fiber, and carbohydrates, reducing tannins, and maintaining high phytic acid in some varieties. L01 consistently showed the highest phenolic content, antioxidant activity, and enzyme inhibition. Its phenolic profile was dominated by kaempferol derivatives, (epi)catechin, and procyanidins, with cooking increasing monomeric catechins but reducing procyanidin oligomers. At noncytotoxic levels, L01 extracts reduced IL-6/8 secretion in stimulated cells, with stronger effects from raw extracts. Additionally, they decreased expression of inflammatory markers (IL-6/8/1β) while increasing expression of metabolic regulation- and barrier-related genes (Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ, Sirtuin 1, Occludin, and Cadherin-1). Only raw extracts significantly enhanced Heme oxygenase-1 expression under stimulation. These findings highlight compositional differences beyond tegument color and support further investigation of phenolic-rich lentils as potential functional food ingredients targeting gut and metabolic health.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a potent anthracycline chemotherapeutic agent, but its clinical use is limited by cumulative cardiotoxicity. Exercise, particularly high-intensity interval training (HIIT), has emerged as an effective non-pharmacological strategy to counteract chemotherapy-induced cardiac injury. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the cardioprotective effects of HIIT remain unclear. This study aimed to determine whether HIIT attenuates DOX-induced cardiotoxicity via activation of the fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21)/sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) signalling pathway in rats. Thirty-three male Wistar rats (200-250 g) were randomly assigned to three groups (n = 11 each): control (CONTROL), DOX-treated sedentary (DOX-Sed) and DOX-treated HIIT (DOX-HIIT). DOX-induced cardiotoxicity was induced by intraperitoneal DOX injections (12 mg/kg cumulative dose over 12 days). After confirmation of cardiac dysfunction by echocardiography, the DOX-HIIT group completed an 8 week treadmill HIIT programme (three sessions per week, five intervals of 4 min at 85%-90% of maximal O2 uptake separated by 2 min at 50%-60% of maximal O2 uptake). Cardiac function, oxidative stress markers, inflammatory cytokines, plasma levels of FGF21 and protein expression of FGFR1 and the SIRT1/AMPK/Nrf2 pathway were assessed. HIIT improved survival (81.8% vs. 63.6% in DOX-Sed), prevented weight loss and ameliorated left ventricular systolic dysfunction, as evidenced by increased ejection fraction and fractional shortening (P < 0.05). HIIT reduced cardiac interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-1β and malondialdehyde levels while elevating antioxidant enzyme activities. Mechanistically, HIIT increased plasma FGF21 and phosphorylated FGFR1 and upregulated SIRT1, LKB1 and phosphorylated AMPK, leading to activation of the Nrf2/HO-1 antioxidant pathway. Therefore, HIIT-induced FGF21 has a potential therapeutic effect on cardiac function in DOX-induced cardiotoxicity through activation of the FGF21/SIRT1/LKB1/AMPK/Nrf2/HO-1 signalling pathway.© 2026 The Author(s). Experimental Physiology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Physiological Society.
The use of cannabinoid has been implicated in the treatment of various skin disorders with obscure mechanism of action. This study aimed to investigate the physiological roles of GPR55 in regenerating skin wounds and protecting keratinocyte apoptosis induced by UVB radiation. Here, we found that O1602, a GPR55 agonist, accelerated wound healing in keratinocyte-like HaCaT cells, and this effect was suppressed by pretreatment with inhibitors of protein kinase A (PKA), AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), sirtuin-1 (SIRT-1), and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). Although O1602 treatment promoted keratinocyte proliferation in HaCaT cell line but its proliferative effect did not contribute to enhancing wound healing. Indeed, O1602 upregulated expression of MMP-9, suggesting the stimulation of cell migration. O1602 treatment protected against UVB-induced keratinocyte apoptosis, and this effect was abolished by pretreatment with inhibitors belonging to the same class as that which suppressed the wound-healing response. Furthermore, western blotting analyses revealed that O1602 treatment induced AMPK phosphorylation, and this effect was inhibited by pretreatment of PKA inhibitor. Moreover, O1602 promoted ERK phosphorylation, and this effect was aborted by pretreatment of either AMPK inhibitor or SIRT-1 inhibitor. Enzymatic activation of SIRT-1 induced by O1602 was absent in AMPK inhibitor-pretreated HaCaT cells. Altogether, GPR55 mediates keratinocyte regeneration and exhibits its protective effect against UVB exposure via PKA/AMPK/SIRT-1/ERK-dependent mechanism.
Chronic morphine consumption induces oxidative stress and renal dysfunction, effects that may be exacerbated by aging-related declines in adaptive capacity. Regular endurance exercise enhances antioxidant defense and mitochondrial regulation; however, its ability to counteract morphine-induced renal alterations across different stages of aging remains insufficiently characterized.Male wistar rats, categorized as young and aged based on chronological age and body weight, were allocated to control, morphine, exercise, and morphine plus exercise groups within each age category. Morphine was administered via drinking water for four weeks. Concurrently, animals in the exercise groups performed moderate-intensity continuous training on a treadmill. At study completion, serum and renal tissues were collected for assessment of oxidative stress markers (MDA, TAC, SOD), MPO, renal function indices (BUN and creatinine), and renal expression of sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) and Klotho, Mitochondrial compatibility markers (Citrate synthase activity and TFAM).Chronic morphine exposure was associated with increased oxidative stress markers and decreased antioxidant capacity in kidney tissue, and simultaneously increased serum urea and creatinine levels in young and old mice, indicating impaired renal functional status. Chronic morphine administration also decreased SIRT1 and Klotho levels in young and old animals. In contrast, 4 weeks of endurance training improved markers of mitochondrial adaptation, oxidative balance, and renal function, which were associated with increased expression of SIRT1 and Klotho in kidney tissue. These changes could indicate a potential link between exercise training and molecular pathways involved in the regulation of oxidative stress and renal homeostasis. However, these findings suggest an association, and causal or mechanistic interpretations will require further investigation in future studies.These findings indicate that endurance training is associated with more favorable renal biomarker profiles in the context of chronic opioid exposure.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Effective psychotherapeutic interventions for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) rely on fear extinction to suppress maladaptive fear responses, yet their long-term efficacy is limited by high relapse rates. Notably, extinction involves not only fear inhibition but also affective engagement. However, whether and how internal affective components contribute to extinction retrieval and long-term persistence remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that positive affective experiences arising during extinction govern the long-term persistence of extinction and resistance to spontaneous recovery. We identify a subpopulation of medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) extinction neurons projecting to supramammillary nucleus glutamatergic (SuMGlu) neurons that encodes positive affective experience during extinction and selectively governs long-term extinction persistence. This ensemble is spatially, anatomically, and transcriptionally distinct from mPFC extinction neurons projecting to zona incerta somatostatin-expressing (ZISST) neurons, which primarily support extinction retrieval. Transcriptomic profiling reveals enrichment of sirtuin 1 (Sirt1) within SuM-projecting extinction ensembles, and bidirectional manipulation of SIRT1 alters extinction relapse vulnerability in a PTSD mouse model. These findings provide a cortical-hypothalamic framework incorporating molecular features that governs the long-term persistence of fear extinction and resistance to relapse through positive affective processes.
Nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN), a key precursor of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+), has recently emerged as a promising therapeutic candidate for age-related diseases. This review critically evaluates preclinical evidence regarding the effects of NMN on ovarian health, with particular emphasis on its potential to attenuate ovarian aging, improve follicular reserve, and restore endocrine function. Animal studies have demonstrated that NMN supplementation enhances mitochondrial function, reduces oxidative stress, and modulates sirtuin activity in ovarian tissue. These effects contributed to improved oocyte quality, delayed ovarian senescence, and prolonged reproductive lifespan. In models of chemotherapy-induced ovarian insufficiency and age-related ovarian decline, NMN administration was associated with increased folliculogenesis and normalization of hormonal profiles. Furthermore, the anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic properties of NMN suggest potential therapeutic applications in conditions such as premature ovarian insufficiency and polycystic ovary syndrome. Despite encouraging findings in rodent models, clinical translation remains limited. This review summarizes the key molecular pathways influenced by NMN, including the NAD+/sirtuin-1 (SIRT1) axis, and highlights important gaps in current knowledge. Collectively, the available evidence underscores the therapeutic potential of NMN while emphasizing the need for well-designed human studies to establish its efficacy and safety in reproductive medicine.
SIRT1 (sirtuin-1) regulates various cellular and metabolic processes in the vasculature. SIRT1 is an NAD+-dependent deacetylase that deacetylates transcription factors that control vascular inflammation and remodeling. Given that pathways regulated by SIRT1 are implicated in the pathophysiology of intracranial aneurysms, we hypothesized that activation and overexpression of SIRT1 prevent aneurysm rupture by suppressing vascular inflammation.Intracranial aneurysms were induced in mice by systemic hypertension and a single intracisternal injection of elastase. We analyzed the expression of SIRT1 in human and mouse aneurysms. We investigated the role of SIRT1 in aneurysm rupture using genetic overexpression of SIRT1 and cell-specific deletion in the endothelial, vascular smooth muscle, and myeloid lineages. We administered a SIRT1 activator and a SIRT1 inhibitor to assess the rupture rate and mRNA expression in cerebral arteries.SIRT1 expression was significantly lower in intracranial aneurysm tissues than in control cerebral arteries in mice, with a similar trend in human aneurysms. Global overexpression of SIRT1 significantly decreased the rupture rate. Endothelial SIRT1 deletion increased the rupture rate, with no effect observed in other cell types. Inhibition of SIRT1 increased the rupture rate, whereas SIRT1 activation reduced the rupture rate and suppressed mRNA expression of proinflammatory cytokines in cerebral arteries.Our findings support a protective role of SIRT1 against intracranial aneurysm rupture in mice, with endothelial SIRT1 playing an important role in aneurysm stabilization. Pharmacological SIRT1 activation reduced aneurysm rupture and was associated with reduced vascular inflammation, providing a preclinical rationale for further investigation of SIRT1-related pathways.
Women with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) are more likely to develop cardiovascular disease (CVD) within 3 to 10 years following pregnancy. Despite a return to normoglycemia shortly after gestation, GDM mothers still possess an increased risk of future CVD. In this study, we use a novel preclinical hormonal model of GDM to examine the mechanisms underlying future vascular and cardiac dysfunction in mothers with a history of GDM. We treated 16-week-old pregnant C57BL/6J mice with the insulin receptor antagonist (S961; 30nmol/kg, s.c.) from gestational day (GD) 7 (second trimester of pregnancy) until delivery to induce GDM. GDM mice developed systolic and diastolic dysfunction, arterial stiffness, hypertension, increased cardiac mass, and exercise intolerance at 10 weeks postpartum compared with saline-treated pregnant or S961-treated virgin mice. We also observed decreased plasma nitric oxide (NO) and increased endothelin-1 (ET-1) in GDM. The aorta of S961-induced GDM mice had increased pulse wave velocity, impaired vascular relaxation, remodeling, elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and adhesion molecules, increased ET-1 type A receptor expression, and reduced sirtuin-1 (SIRT-1) expression. The left ventricle of S961-induced GDM mice exhibited fibrosis, thickness, and increased ROS production. Additionally, alterations in cardiac kinase activity in the nitric oxide/cyclic guanosine monophosphate/protein kinase G (NO/cGMP/PRKG) and AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) alpha pathways were observed at 10 weeks postpartum using novel Pamgene kinome technology. Thus, endothelin activation, suppressed NO/cGMP/PRKG signaling, impaired AMPK, and altered SIRT1 may be responsible for the development of vascular stiffness and cardiac dysfunction in mothers with a history of GDM.
Mammarenaviruses (MaAv) cause persistent infections in diverse rodent reservoirs worldwide and several are zoonotic pathogens with an important public-health burden in their endemic regions. Moreover, the globally distributed MaAv lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) is an underrecognized pathogen of clinical significance in congenital infections and immunocompromised individuals. The lack of FDA-approved vaccines or antivirals for MaAv infections underscores the urgent need for novel anti-MaAv therapeutic strategies. Neutral sphingomyelinase 2 (nSMase2) was recently identified as a host factor contributing to LCMV multiplication, and its inhibitor cambinol exhibits dose-dependent antiviral activity against LCMV but the underlying mechanisms remain undefined. Here, we show that cambinol disrupts multiple stages of the LCMV life cycle. Cambinol inhibits the pH-dependent fusion event mediated by MaAv glycoprotein, a step required for completion of virus cell entry. It also reduces viral ribonucleoprotein (vRNP)-directed genome replication and transcription and impairs the budding activity of the virus matrix Z protein. Cambinol also inhibits sirtuins 1 and 2 (Sirt-1 and Sirt-2), two NAD + -dependent protein deacetylases with pleiotropic roles in cellular metabolism and stress responses, raising the question of whether cambinol anti-LCMV activity reflects nSMase2 inhibition alone or also involves sirtuin-dependent pathways. LCMV multiplication was significantly reduced in SIRT1, but not SIRT2, knockout (KO) cells, uncovering a pro-viral role for Sirt-1 in the LCMV life cycle. Consistent with this finding, LCMV vRNP activity and production of infectious progeny were reduced in SIRT1 KO cells. These findings identify Sirt-1 as a host factor required for optimal LCMV multiplication. Sirt-1 inhibitors are in clinical development for oncological and neurological indications, raising the possibility of repurposing Sirt-1 inhibitors as host-directed antivirals (HDAs) against human pathogenic MaAv.
DNA damage is ubiquitous and can arise from numerous sources. To mitigate the potential effects of DNA damage, cells possess varied DNA repair and damage tolerance mechanisms. Conserved throughout evolution, specialized DNA damage-bypass DNA polymerases from the Y family provide DNA damage tolerance. E. coli harbors two Y-family polymerases whereas humans have four members of the Y family. E. coli DinB and human DNA polymerase kappa have shown similar damage bypass profiles in that they both are specific for minor groove adducts and are inhibited by major groove adducts. These two proteins share a similar active site loop that is adjacent to the nascent base pair. These active site loops were analyzed by alanine scanning mutagenesis with the resulting proteins characterized in primer extension assays and for their thermal stability. Most variants show similar activity to the respective wild-type proteins, with a few mutations resulting in dramatic losses of activity and changes in stability. The effects of the mutations are remarkably similar in DinB and polymerase kappa, with mutation of specific aligned residues showing decreased activity and/or stability. Most of the variants have similar thermal stability as the respective wild-type proteins and show the characteristic increase in stability in the presence of substrates, with the less active variants in general showing limited stabilization by DNA or DNA and incoming nucleotides.© 2026 The Author(s). Environmental and Molecular Mutagenesis published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Environmental Mutagenesis and Genomics Society.
The cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS)/stimulator of interferon genes (STING)-mediated type I interferon response plays a crucial role in antitumor immunity, yet the regulatory factors involved in this innate immune response remain incompletely understood. Here, we identified methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3), an RNA N6 -methyladenosine methyltransferase, as a key suppressor of the cGAS/STING pathway in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) cells. METTL3 was overexpressed in LUAD tissues, and elevated METTL3 expression was associated with decreased CD8+ T-cell infiltration and poor clinical outcomes. Mechanistically, METTL3 deficiency promoted nuclear DNA leakage into the cytoplasm, thereby activating the cGAS pathway and enhancing antitumor immunity. Specifically, METTL3 knockdown decreased the efficiency of homologous recombination repair by down-regulating MutS homolog 5, leading to cytosolic DNA accumulation. On the other hand, N6 -methyladenosine methylation of cGAS messenger RNA destabilized the transcript and suppressed its protein expression. Functionally, METTL3 knockdown sensitized LUAD cells to poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitors. In vivo and clinical data confirmed the beneficial effects of METTL3-inhibition-induced activation of the cGAS/STING axis on tumor growth and LUAD progression. Collectively, our findings reveal that METTL3 inhibition activates cGAS/STING-mediated antitumor immunity by inducing cytosolic DNA accumulation and cGAS up-regulation, thereby modulating poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitor response and cancer progression in LUAD.Copyright © 2026 Jiawang Zhou et al.
Genomic stability is critical for cellular function; however, in the central nervous system, highly metabolically active differentiated neurons are challenged to maintain their genome over the organismal lifespan without replication. DNA damage in neurons increases with chronological age and accelerates in neurodegenerative disorders, resulting in cellular and systemic dysregulation. Distinct DNA damage response strategies have evolved with a host of polymerases. The Y-family translesion synthesis (TLS) polymerases are well known for bypassing and repairing damaged DNA in dividing cells. However, their expression, dynamics, and role, if any, in enduring postmitotic differentiated neurons of the brain are completely unknown. We show through systematic longitudinal studies for the first time that DNA polymerase kappa (POLK), a member of the Y-family polymerases, is highly expressed in mouse neurons. With chronological age, there is a progressive and significant reduction of nuclear POLK with a concomitant accumulation in the cytoplasm that is predictive of brain tissue age. The reduction of nuclear POLK in old brains is congruent with an increase in DNA damage markers. The nuclear POLK colocalizes with damaged sites and DNA repair proteins. The cytoplasmic POLK accumulates with stress granules and endo/lysosomal markers. Nuclear POLK expression is significantly higher in GABAergic interneurons (INs) compared to excitatory pyramidal neurons and lowest in non-neurons, possibly reflective of the inherent biological differences such as firing rates and neuronal activity. INs associated with microglia have significantly higher levels of cytoplasmic POLK in old age. Finally, we show that neuronal activity itself can lead to an increase in nuclear POLK levels and a reduction of the cytoplasmic fraction. Our findings open a new avenue in understanding how different classes of postmitotic neurons deploy TLS polymerase(s) to maintain their genomic integrity over time, which will help design strategies for longevity, healthspan, and prevention of neurodegeneration.© 2024, Abdelmageed et al.
Polypyrimidine Tract Binding Protein 2 (Ptbp2) binds to polypyrimidine clusters in pre-mRNA molecules and plays a vital role in alternative splicing, especially during neuronal development and maturation. Our study shows that Ptbp2 binds to the 3' UTR of DNA polymerase kappa (Polk), leading to its stabilization and increased expression. While Polk's role in DNA repair is known, its post-transcriptional regulation remains largely unclear. We observed a correlation between increased Ptbp2 levels and higher Polk expression in clinical samples of Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML). Knocking out Ptbp2 in CML cell lines and patient samples decreased Polk levels; when treated with hydroxyurea, these samples exhibited increased DNA damage, evidenced by long comet tails and elevated γH2AX foci, a DNA damage marker; however, re-expressing Polk in Ptbp2-KO cells restored the phenotype. Disruption of the DNA repair pathway is a hallmark of cancer and is closely linked to genomic instability. Polk was found to interact with MRE11 of the MRN complex, regulating the activation of the ATM-CHK2 signaling pathway. Cells with high levels of Ptbp2 and Polk showed increased sister chromatid exchanges and BrdU incorporation in ex vivo tests, while multinucleated cells with multipolar spindles appeared in in vivo tests. Our results confirm the key role of the Ptbp2-Polk-MRE11 axis in promoting genomic instability and supporting the survival of cells with higher malignancy.© 2026. The Author(s).
DNA polymerase κ (Polk), a member of Y-family DNA polymerases, plays an important role in translesion DNA synthesis (TLS), allowing DNA replication forks to bypass DNA damage or DNA adducts to continue daughter strand synthesis. Polk is also believed to contribute to the replication-independent repair of DNA lesions such as cross-links. TLS circumvents stalls of DNA replication and promotes gap filling in DNA repair which would otherwise result in DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) and cell death. Mitomycin C (MMC) is a widely used chemotherapeutic drug which generates DNA cross-links and induces DSBs. To clarify how Polk contributes to the prevention of MMC-induced DSB in various organs or tissues, immunohistochemical staining of γH2AX was conducted in catalytically inactivated Polk knock-in (Polk KI) mice and Polk wild-type (Polk+) mice treated with MMC or saline.The γH2AX induction by MMC was enhanced by inactivation of Polk across many organs or tissues to varying degrees. Obvious enhancement was observed in liver, bladder, adrenal cortex, thyroid, and spermatids, whereas less enhancement was shown in brain and retina. The results suggest that Polk plays a role in preventing DSBs caused by MMC in most organs or tissues. Elevated DSB frequencies were observed in both proliferative cells, such as bladder epithelium cells, and less or slowly proliferative cells, such as hepatocytes. Increased DSB levels in inactivated Polk KI mice relative to Polk+ mice were also observed in saline-treated mice in the adrenal cortex and other tissues.Polk plays a systemic role in mitigating MMC-induced DSBs, likely through both DNA replication-dependent and -independent mechanisms. Furthermore, Polk appears to protect against DSBs caused by endogenous mutagens in some organs such as the adrenal cortex, prostate, and retina.© 2025. The Author(s).
DNA interstrand crosslinks (ICLs) are highly cytotoxic lesions that block essential cellular processes like replication and transcription. Endogenous ICLs can be induced by reactive aldehydes produced during normal cellular metabolism. Defective repair of these aldehyde-induced ICLs is associated with Fanconi anaemia (FA), a cancer predisposition syndrome. We previously showed that acetaldehyde-induced ICLs are repaired by the FA pathway and a novel excision-independent pathway. Here, we demonstrate that ICLs induced by acrolein, another cellular aldehyde, are also repaired by both pathways, establishing the generality of aldehyde ICL repair. Focusing on the FA pathway, we identify DNA polymerase kappa (Polκ) as the primary translesion synthesis (TLS) polymerase responsible for the insertion step during lesion bypass of unhooked aldehyde ICLs. This function requires Polκ's catalytic activity and PCNA interaction domains but is independent of Rev1 interaction. In contrast, Polκ has a non-catalytic role in the extension step of cisplatin ICL repair that is dependent on Rev1 interaction. Our work reveals a key role for Polκ in aldehyde ICL repair and provides mechanistic insights into how different ICL structures determine the choice of TLS polymerases during repair.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press.
Triple‑negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive malignancy with limited treatment options, leading to poor clinical outcomes and the need for novel therapeutic approaches. Nintedanib, a United States Food and Drug Administration‑approved multi‑kinase inhibitor with anti‑fibrotic and anti‑angiogenic properties, has shown promise in cancer treatment. However, its precise molecular effects on TNBC have not yet been fully elucidated. Therefore, the present study aimed to investigate the therapeutic potential of nintedanib in TNBC using in vitro and in vivo models, specifically focusing on its regulatory effects on key oncogenic pathways. The present study utilized TNBC cell lines (MDA‑MB‑231 and 4T1) and BALB/c mice to evaluate the antitumor efficacy of nintedanib. Cell viability and clonogenic capacity were assessed using Cell Counting Kit‑8 and colony formation assays. Subsequently, apoptosis induction and cell cycle progression were determined by flow cytometry, and cell migration and invasion were analyzed through scratch and Transwell assays. To identify underlying mechanisms, potential molecular targets were identified via bioinformatics and network pharmacology, and were validated through western blotting, immunofluorescence and immunohistochemistry. Finally, an orthotopic TNBC mouse model was established and monitored in real time by multimodal ultrasound imaging. The results revealed that nintedanib significantly inhibited TNBC cell proliferation and suppressed stem cell‑like properties. Furthermore, it induced cell cycle arrest at the G2/M phase and promoted apoptosis. Mechanistic analysis revealed that nintedanib activated tumor protein p73 (TP73), leading to the disruption of the p53‑peroxisome proliferator‑activated receptor α (PPARα)/PI3K‑Akt signaling axis. Additionally, it downregulated epithelial‑mesenchymal transition (EMT) markers, including Snail and zinc finger E‑box‑binding homeobox protein 1, thereby mitigating tumor invasiveness. In vivo, nintedanib treatment effectively reduced tumor growth, angiogenesis and stiffness, indicating its potential as a viable therapeutic agent for TNBC. In conclusion, nintedanib exerts potent anti‑TNBC effects by modulating TP73, disrupting oncogenic signaling via the p53‑PPARα/PI3K‑Akt axis, and attenuating EMT‑associated transcription factors. These findings highlight its potential as a promising targeted therapy for TNBC, warranting further clinical exploration.
DNA polymerase kappa (pol κ) is an error-prone Y-family polymerase primarily associated with translesion DNA synthesis (TLS), a DNA damage tolerance mechanism that prevents replication fork stalling. Pol κ has been implicated in other DNA repair and tolerance pathways such as nucleotide excision repair (NER). However, the role of error-prone pol κ in the NER pathway remains unclear. We sought to investigate if pol κ had a catalytic role in NER by using the pol κ selective nucleoside analogue, N2-(4-ethynylbenzyl)-2'-deoxyguanosine (EBndG). Here, we identified robust, cell cycle-independent catalytic activity of pol κ in cells not treated with DNA-damaging agents. We identified approximately 40% of pol κ catalytic activity was reduced with loss of either XPC or XPA, but not CSB, indicating pol κ has a role in global genome-NER. We monitored pol κ catalytic activity after treatment with benzo(a)pyrene diol epoxide and UVB radiation, and we observed that pol κ catalytic activity increased in an NER-dependent manner. Our study highlights that pol κ is consistently active in cells and possesses a key catalytic role in NER.
Rheumatoid arthritis and its glucocorticoid-based treatment may adversely affect male reproductive function by disrupting spermatogenesis, steroidogenesis, and testicular homeostasis. Insulin-like peptide 3 (INSL3), a Leydig cell-derived peptide hormone and marker of Leydig cell functional capacity, may contribute to the maintenance of testicular function through its steroidogenic and anti-inflammatory effects. In the present study, we investigated the effects of prednisolone and INSL3, administered alone or in combination, on testicular structure and function in rats with adjuvant-induced arthritis. Adult male rats were allocated to seven groups: control, prednisolone, INSL3, arthritis, arthritis + prednisolone, arthritis + INSL3, and arthritis + prednisolone + INSL3. Testicular alterations were evaluated using histological, morphometric, immunohistochemical, ultrastructural, testosterone, and sperm analyses. Arthritis was associated with reduced testicular weight, decreased seminiferous tubule diameter and epithelial thickness, impaired sperm parameters, lower serum and intratesticular testosterone levels, increased testicular tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-6 immunoreactivity, and reduced 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase and proliferating cell nuclear antigen immunoreactivity. In arthritic rats, prednisolone or INSL3 alone was associated with partial improvement in selected testicular parameters, whereas combined treatment was associated with improvement across several inflammatory, morphometric, steroidogenic, and sperm-related parameters. These findings suggest that INSL3 treatment is associated with partial attenuation of inflammation-related testicular injury and improvement in selected reproductive parameters under inflammatory and glucocorticoid stress. Further studies are required to clarify whether these effects are mediated by direct intratesticular mechanisms or indirect systemic pathways.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society for Reproductive Investigation.
Colchicine (COL) is a widely used anti-inflammatory agent, but its therapeutic potential is limited by its toxicity, particularly in the spleen. This study investigates the protective role of pumpkin seed oil (PMNO) against COL-induced immune dysregulation in male rats. Forty male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into four groups: control, PMNO (4 mL/kg b.wt), COL (0.6 mg/kg b.wt), and COL + PMNO. After 56 days, COL administration significantly increased serum IgG, IgM, and complement C3 levels, while significantly reducing nitric oxide concentrations. PMNO co-treatment significantly restored these parameters to baseline values. COL exposure also induced pronounced oxidative stress in splenic tissue, as evidenced by increased levels of 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine, protein carbonyls, and malondialdehyde, accompanied by significant reductions in the antioxidant defenses, including superoxide dismutase, catalase, and reduced glutathione. PMNO treatment significantly reduced oxidative stress markers, improving redox balance. Histopathological examination revealed spleen damage in COL-treated rats, including mild depletion of white pulp, expansion of red pulp, and collagen accumulation. PMNO co-treatment alleviated these changes and reduced collagen deposition. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed a marked reduction in proliferating cell nuclear antigen immunoreactivity and a significant increase in BAX expression in the spleens of COL-treated rats. These alterations were markedly attenuated by PMNO co-administration. These findings suggest that PMNO protects against COL-induced splenic injury, as evidenced by improvements in immune-related biomarkers, oxidative stress indices, histopathological alterations, and apoptosis-associated markers, highlighting its potential as a natural therapeutic agent for mitigating COL-associated splenic injury.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Gymnotiformes are weakly electric fishes that rely on specialized electrosensory organs for navigation, prey detection, and electrocommunication in structurally complex aquatic environments. Despite their ecological and evolutionary importance, detailed anatomical and histological information on the electrosensory organs of Gymnotus carapo remains scarce. The aim of this study was to characterize the electrosensory organs of the integument of G. carapo through morphological and immunohistochemical analyses. Twenty-eight specimens (10 juveniles and 18 adults) collected in Corrientes, Argentina, were examined using scanning electron microscopy, histology, histochemistry, and immunohistochemistry for proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). Neuromasts were distributed along the cephalic and trunk lateral line system and consisted of hair cells, supporting cells, and mantle cells. Ampullary organs (Type I) exhibited a duct connected to a dilated ampulla filled with gelatinous material and lined by sensory and supporting cells. Tuberous organs (Type II) lacked an ampulla and were classified into three subtypes (IIA, IIB, and IIC) according to differences in sensory cell arrangement and epithelial covering. PCNA immunoreactivity was detected in supporting, sensory, and covering cells of tuberous organs in both juveniles and adults, indicating that these cells retain proliferative potential throughout ontogeny. This study provides the first detailed anatomical, histological, and immunohistochemical characterization of electrosensory organs in G. carapo, establishing a morphological basis for future studies on sensory function, cellular turnover, and environmental adaptations in weakly electric fishes.© 2026 American Association for Anatomy.
This study investigates the link between proliferation markers (PCNA, p16, Ki-67) and histopathological factors, exploring their prognostic value in breast cancer patients.We analyzed female breast cancer patients who underwent surgery. Data collected included demographics, clinical parameters (hemogram, Ca 15.3, menopause status, etc.), family cancer history, pathology, treatments (neoadjuvant, surgical, oncological), tumor staging, lymph node status, receptor status (ER, PR, cerb-b2), and survival. Paraffin blocks were retrospectively analyzed for PCNA, p16, and Ki-67 expression via immunohistochemical staining.PCNA scores showed no association with demographic or clinical features, though a statistically significant inter-marker correlation with p16 was found (both markers increased together). P16 scores were not linked to other parameters aside from Ki-67 (also demonstrating positive correlation). Higher Ki-67 index was associated with decreased ER and PR expression and, importantly, decreased survival. Although a significant correlation was observed between PCNA and p16 expression levels, neither marker demonstrated independent prognostic significance with respect to overall survival.Although PCNA and p16 expression levels were inter-correlated, neither marker showed an independent association with clinicopathological variables or overall survival in our cohort. In contrast, the Ki-67 index was significantly associated with hormone receptor status, pathological stage, and shorter overall survival, and remains the most informative proliferation marker for prognostic stratification in breast cancer. Further prospective studies with standardized scoring and multivariate analysis are warranted to clarify the prognostic value of PCNA and p16.Copyright © 2026 Duran, Pulat, Gübür, Altun, Yavuz, Topal and Çetin Duran.
Liver fibrosis is pathologically characterized by excessive extracellular matrix (ECM) deposition induced by diverse etiological factors, which is associated with hepatic stellate cell (HSC) activation and proliferation. B-cell translocation gene 1 (BTG1) contributes to the regulation of cellular proliferation, differentiation, and development. The biological role of BTG1 in HSC activation and liver fibrosis remains incompletely understood.To clarify the regulatory role of BTG1, carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced rat liver fibrosis models and platelet-derived growth factor-BB (PDGF-BB)-activated HSC-T6 cells were used. For in vivo studies, rats were injected with BTG1-overexpressing recombinant adeno-associated virus (AAV). siRNA or overexpression vectors targeting BTG1 were transfected into HSC-T6 cells in vitro, respectively. Rat serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) levels were measured using biochemical assays. Liver histopathological alterations were evaluated by histological staining. 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) assays and flow cytometry were used to assess cell proliferation and apoptosis. Immunohistochemistry, Western blotting, and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) were performed to quantify the levels of α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), collagen I, interleukin-6 (IL-6), and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), as well as proliferation- and apoptosis-related proteins. Furthermore, a specific JAK2 inhibitor was used to further clarify the underlying molecular mechanism.BTG1 was significantly downregulated in CCl4-induced fibrotic liver tissues and activated HSCs. AAV-mediated BTG1 overexpression markedly alleviated liver fibrosis in rats. siRNA-mediated BTG1 knockdown resulted in the significant upregulation of collagen I, α-SMA, IL-6, and TNF-α expression in HSC-T6 cells. BTG1 deficiency enhanced HSC-T6 cell proliferation induced by PDGF-BB as evidenced by increased expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and Ki67, while inhibiting apoptotic death, as evidenced by reduced levels of Bax and cleaved caspase-3, and by enhanced Bcl-2 expression. BTG1 overexpression had the opposite effects. Mechanistically, BTG1 deficiency enhanced JAK2/STAT3 signaling by upregulating the phosphorylation of these signaling intermediaries, whereas BTG1 overexpression inhibited this signaling pathway. Notably, pretreatment with the JAK2 inhibitor ruxolitinib neutralized BTG1 knockdown-induced JAK2/STAT3 hyperactivation.BTG1 suppresses HSC activation by modulating the JAK2/STAT3 signaling axis and retards liver fibrosis progression, suggesting that it may represent a promising therapeutic target for anti-fibrotic intervention.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Expansion microscopy (ExM) enables nanoscale fluorescence imaging on standard microscopes, but its combination with single-molecule localization microscopy (SMLM) remains challenging due to the incompatibility of expanded hydrogels with photoswitching buffers. Here, we introduce a single-step expansion microscopy approach that enables SMLM using spontaneously blinking dyes in 6-14× expanded samples, without re-embedding or buffer exchange. Using this approach, we achieve nanometer-scale spatial resolution by resolving the organization of the nuclear pore complex and the molecular structure of recombinant homotrimeric proliferating cell nuclear antigen.© 2026 The Authors. Co-published by Nanjing University and American Chemical Society.
Despite intensive multimodal therapy, high-risk neuroblastoma remains associated with poor clinical outcomes because of treatment resistance, recurrence, and progressive disease, underscoring the need for new therapeutic strategies. We investigated whether proteasome-associated deubiquitinating enzymes are therapeutically relevant in neuroblastoma by assessing ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase L5 (UCHL5) and ubiquitin-specific protease 14 (USP14) expression in neuroblastoma tissues and evaluating the antitumor activity of VLX1570 in preclinical models. Immunohistochemical (IHC) analysis showed stronger UCHL5 and USP14 immunoreactivity in neuroblastoma tissues than in normal peripheral nerve tissue. In human neuroblastoma cell lines IMR-32, SK-N-SH, and SH-SY5Y, VLX1570 reduced cell viability in a dose- and time-dependent manner, induced apoptosis, and triggered G2/M arrest. These effects were accompanied by induction of CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein homologous protein (CHOP) and suppression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA)-associated proliferative signaling, as reflected by reduced expression of PCNA, phospho-histone H3, and Bcl-2 together with increased p21 and p53 expression. PCNA knockdown experiments further supported inhibition of PCNA-associated proliferative signaling as a functionally relevant component of VLX1570-induced cytotoxicity. In addition, VLX1570 enhanced cisplatin-induced apoptosis in vitro and potentiated cisplatin antitumor activity in neuroblastoma xenograft models. Together, these findings support proteasome-associated deubiquitinating enzyme inhibition as a pharmacologic strategy in neuroblastoma and provide a rationale for further evaluation of VLX1570, particularly in combination with cisplatin.Copyright © 2026 Yang, Khoi, Kuo, Chow, Hsu, Kao, Lin, Chang, Liao, Tai, Shi, Liu, Chang, Wang and Huang.
Nanoplastic particles are increasingly detected in aquatic environments, yet whether cellular stress responses persist after exposure cessation remains unclear. Here, Lateolabrax maculatus rostral (LMR) cells from spotted sea bass were continuously exposed for up to 30 passages (105 days) to nominal 20 nm carboxylated fluorescent polystyrene particles (20 μg/mL), followed by 10 particle-free passages (recovery). Long-term exposure was associated with reduced proliferation and pronounced changes in cell surface morphology and ultrastructure. Although NP-associated fluorescence became undetectable during recovery, several nuclear-associated alterations persisted throughout the 10-passage recovery period, including TEM-observed nuclear-envelope alterations, filamentous actin (F-actin) reorganization, and sustained elevation of phosphorylated H2AX (γ-H2AX) foci. Several nuclear pore complex (NPC) genes were downregulated during exposure and rebounded after particle removal, whereas the nuclear-to-cytoplasmic distribution of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) remained shifted. Together, these findings indicate that prolonged exposure to this nanoscale polystyrene particle formulation was associated with nuclear stress responses that did not fully resolve within the 10-passage recovery window in fish cells. Because bulk-polymer and chemical-extract (leachate) controls were not included, nanoscale-specific effects cannot be distinguished from contributions of polymer chemistry, surface functionalization, fluorescent dye, or other formulation-related effects.
Background: Patients with Kawasaki disease (KD) who develop coronary artery aneurysms (CAAs) are at increased risk of future fatal coronary events. Pharmacotherapeutic strategies to prevent coronary stenosis are still lacking. In this exploratory study, the therapeutic effect of the angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) losartan on coronary artery (CA) stenosis was investigated in a murine model. Methods: Five-week-old male C57BL/6J mice were intraperitoneally injected with 1000 μg of Lactobacillus casei cell wall extract (LCWE) (n = 12) to induce CA stenosis. Two weeks later, the LCWE-injected mice (n = 12) were divided into two groups: six received drinking water containing losartan (100 mg/L) (LCWE+ARB), while six received normal drinking water (LCWE group). A control group (n = 5) received phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) instead of LCWE. Sixteen weeks after LCWE administration-corresponding to the peak of CA stenosis and 14 weeks after treatment initiation-the mice were euthanized for histological evaluation of the coronary arteries. Results: Losartan treatment significantly reduced the coronary arteritis score (median [IQR (interquartile range)]: 0 [0-9.5] vs. 21.5 [15-24.3], p = 0.003). LCWE-induced neointimal formation with vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation and subsequent CA stenosis were markedly attenuated in losartan-treated mice (25% vs. 100%, p < 0.001). Losartan-associated attenuation of CA stenosis was accompanied by the preservation of medial calponin expression, a reduction in the number of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA)-positive cells in the neointima, and a decrease in serum MMP-9 (matrix metalloproteinase-9) levels. Conclusions: These findings from a murine model of KD provide preliminary evidence that losartan may attenuate coronary artery remodeling. Further mechanistic studies are warranted to clarify its potential translational relevance.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most common and life-threatening intestinal tumors throughout the world. Its incidence and mortality have been going up in recent decades, and more accurate and personalized treatment for CRC are also being developed continuously. Early screening, molecular typing, and risk grouping have become critical for improving patient survival by using sensitive and special biological markers.We analyzed the expression of four mismatch repair (MMR) genes, namely MutL homolog 1 (MLH1), MutS homolog 2 (MSH2), MutS homolog 6 (MSH6), and PMS1 homolog 2 (PMS2), in CRC and normal tissues using the Tumor, Normal and Metastatic (TNM plot) database. We used the Kaplan-Meier analysis for prognosis, and related pathways were annotated by the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes. We conducted a retrospective study with 115 CRC patients, who were divided into microsatellite stable (MSS) and microsatellite instability (MSI) groups by immunohistochemistry (IHC). The diagnostic value of MMR markers was assessed through receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis.Online data showed that MMR genes were more highly expressed in CRC than in the normal group (P<0.05). Low expression of these genes was linked to shorter recurrence free survival (RFS, P<0.05), and the related signaling pathways also exert an impact on cell cycle regulation. In clinical samples, loss of MLH1 expression was found in female patients, those aged ≥60 years and lymph node-negative cases (P<0.05). MSI-positive tumors were mostly located in the right-sided colon (P<0.05). The combined model of MSH6 and PMS2 had the highest area under the curve (AUC) of 0.981 (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.936-0.997, P<0.001).Combined detection of MSH6 and PMS2 serves as a reliable biomarker for determining the microsatellite status in CRC. This study provides a basis for the precise diagnosis and targeted therapy of CRC.IJCEP Copyright © 2026.
The incidence of early-onset colorectal cancer (EO-CRC; age <50 years) has been increasing worldwide. This single-center retrospective study aimed to compare the clinical characteristics of EO-CRC and late-onset CRC (LO-CRC; age ≥ 50 years) and to identify age-specific prognostic factors for overall survival (OS).A total of 1,148 CRC patients were retrospectively analyzed and categorized into EO-CRC (n = 247) and LO-CRC (n = 901) groups. Clinical characteristics were compared using the Mann-Whitney U test and Chi-square test. Prognostic factors associated with OS were identified using Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) Cox regression followed by multivariate Cox modeling. Model performance was evaluated using the C-index, calibration curves, and time-dependent Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) analysis. Variable importance was further validated using a random survival forest (RSF) model.EO-CRC patients showed higher proportions of family history, concurrent polyps, and Programmed Cell Death Ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression >10%, whereas LO-CRC patients exhibited higher rates of hypertension, diabetes, and elevated carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) levels. Although OS did not differ significantly between groups (P = 0.460), their prognostic determinants varied markedly. In EO-CRC, distant metastasis, family history, Tumor, Node, and Metastasis (TNM) stage, PMS1 homolog 2, mismatch repair system component (PMS2), MutS Homolog 6 (MSH6), tumor size, concurrent polyps, and Ki-67 were major predictors. In LO-CRC, age, BRAF gene V600E mutation (BRAF V600E) mutation, elevated Carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA19-9), Ki-67, low hemoglobin, vascular invasion, MutL Homolog 1 (MLH1), and pathological type were significant contributors. The C-index values for the EO-CRC and LO-CRC models were 0.829 (SE = 0.023) and 0.751 (SE = 0.018), respectively, and all time-dependent ROC curves demonstrated Area Under the Curve (AUCs) above 0.70, indicating good predictive performance. RSF analyses further confirmed that distant metastasis and family history as the strongest predictors, while age and BRAF V600E are the strongest predictors for LO-CRC.This study suggests that EO-CRC and LO-CRC have fundamentally different prognostic determinants: the former emphasizes genetic susceptibility and tumor invasiveness, indicating that this group of patients may benefit from early genetic counseling, MMR/MSI testing, and immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy. The latter highlights age, acquired molecular changes, and chronic systemic factors, supporting the inclusion of metabolic and geriatric assessments in routine tumor care.©2026 Huang et al.
MSH2 (mutS homolog 2) gene, a key component of the DNA mismatch repair system, garners significant attention for its influence on cancer progression and prognosis. Loss of MSH2 protein decreases the chemosensitivity of bladder cancer (BCa) to cisplatin (CDDP). However, precision therapeutic strategy based on MSH2 deficiency is not available clinically. Herein, we reported that knockout of MSH2 reduced the sensitivity of BCa to CDDP. Importantly, GK921, a TGM2-specific inhibitor, increased tumor cell killing by CDDP in MSH2-deficient BCa. GK921 also promoted the chemotherapeutic sensitivity of Msh2-knockout mice to CDDP. In addition, Hi-C analysis indicated that MSH2 deficiency rewired chromatin accessibility of the TGM2 promoter region, leading to recruit more transcription factors. Accordingly, we found that the enrichment levels of transcription factor AP-1 in TGM2 promoter region were increased in MSH2-knockout BCa cells, thereby promoting the expression of TGM2 transcriptionally. This study uncovers that CDDP effectiveness depends on TGM2 levels in MSH2-deficient BCa and that the combination of CDDP with TGM2 inhibition may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for MSH2-deficient BCa patients.© 2026. The Author(s).
Ovarian aging, marked by the gradual decline in both the number and quality of oocytes, significantly impacts women's reproductive lifespan and overall health. However, the biological mechanisms driving ovarian aging remain poorly understood and current treatment strategies are limited.We perform an integrative analysis using multi-omics summary data and genome-wide association studies for ovarian aging to identify molecular traits linked to ovarian aging. By applying Mendelian randomization and cross-omics association approaches, we prioritize key proteins, gene expressions, splicing events, and metabolites. Our analysis identifies conservation of key genes across species and cell types, with the mismatch repair gene MSH6 (MutS Homolog 6) emerging as a consistently prioritized candidate. Experimental validation shows that targeting DNA repair through PD-L1 (Programmed Death-Ligand 1) blockade may offer a potential therapeutic strategy to delay ovarian aging.This study uncovers the multi-layered genetic and molecular architecture underlying ovarian aging. The identified molecular traits provide promising candidates for functional studies and suggest new avenues for developing therapies aimed at preserving ovarian function and preventing age-related decline.© 2026. The Author(s).
Microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) colorectal cancers demonstrate significant responses to immune checkpoint inhibitors. Lynch syndrome, caused by germline mismatch repair gene mutations, typically presents with MSI-H tumours. We report a remarkable case of complete pathological response to pembrolizumab in a young patient with extensive Lynch syndrome-associated metastatic colorectal cancer. A woman in her early 30s with a strong family history of malignancy presented with progressive fatigue and anaemia. Investigations revealed moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the hepatic flexure with extensive metastatic disease, including innumerable liver metastases, retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy, and ascites. Molecular testing demonstrated MSI-H status with loss of MutS Homolog 2 (MSH2) and MutS Homolog 6 (MSH6) expression, v-Raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B (BRAF) wild-type, consistent with Lynch syndrome. Baseline carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) was approximately 272 ng/mL. In a healthy adult who smokes, CEA is considered within normal limits at a level less than or equal to 5 ng/ml. Given the MSI-H phenotype, first-line pembrolizumab immunotherapy was commenced rather than conventional chemotherapy. The patient demonstrated a dramatic, sustained response over 24 months of pembrolizumab. CEA declined from approximately 300 ng/mL to 1.0 ng/mL. Serial imaging showed progressive tumour reduction with transformation of solid liver metastases into cystic lesions. Post-treatment Positron Emission Tomography-Computed Tomography (PET-CT) demonstrated a complete metabolic response. Following the completion of immunotherapy, the patient underwent right hemicolectomy. Histopathological examination revealed no viable cancer cells in the entire surgical specimen, confirming complete pathological response (ypT0, ypN0, R0). Immune-related adverse events were manageable and did not require treatment discontinuation. The patient remains under active surveillance with stable residual cystic liver lesions and no evidence of disease progression. This case demonstrates that complete pathological responses to pembrolizumab are achievable in MSI-H metastatic colorectal cancer. Universal MSI/mismatch repair (MMR) testing is essential to identify candidates for first-line immunotherapy, and Lynch syndrome should be considered in young patients with MSI-H tumours and a family history of malignancy.Copyright © 2026, Niazi et al.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a serious global health problem, ranking first in men and third in women among all cancers worldwide. The genetic basis for CRC remains unclear in most cases; therefore, the present study aimed to investigate the molecular genetic basis of CRC and correlate it with disease outcomes.Tumor tissues were obtained from 84 Saudi CRC patients, and their disease data and tumor characteristics were recorded. The MutS homolog 2 (MSH2) gene was analyzed for molecular underlying pathogenic variants, and various bioinformatic approaches were utilized to predict the lethality of these variants and their association with cancer pathogenicity.A total of 17 variants in four CRC types were identified in 14 patients of whom two were novel missense variations, c.2312 C > G (p.Ala771Gly) and c.2390 T > G (p. Val797Gly). The p.Ala771Gly variant was detected in five individuals (5.95% allelic frequency), while the p.Val797Gly variant was found in three patients (3.57% allelic frequency). Further analysis using the Have (y)Our Protein Explained (HOPE) tool predicted that these variants may deleteriously affect MSH2 protein-DNA and ATP binding, resulting in functional damage to MSH2, which impairs its functions and protein-binding affinities.This study provides new insights into the genetic basis of CRC and highlights the importance of molecular analysis for detecting novel variants. These novel mutations can be therapeutic targets for novel drugs in precision medicine.© 2026 The Author(s). Health Science Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Parathyroid carcinoma (PC) is a rare endocrine malignancy that often clinically mimics primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) caused by parathyroid adenoma or hyperplasia. Complete resection of malignancy is the only curative treatment, and to date, there is no effective systemic therapy for advanced disease. A 60-year-old woman was referred for evaluation of hypercalcemia. Laboratory studies were consistent with PHPT. She underwent right superior parathyroidectomy, and pathology revealed PC with lymphovascular invasion. Postoperatively, calcium and parathyroid hormone levels normalized but recurred 6 months later. Imaging identified metastatic PC. Somatic genetic testing revealed a MutS homolog 2 (MSH2) splice-site mutation, indicating microsatellite instability. The patient started pembrolizumab immunotherapy, resulting in normalization of laboratory values and partial regression of metastases. This case highlights the diagnostic challenges of PC and underscores the potential role of immunotherapy in selected patients, particularly those with microsatellite instability, given the absence of established systemic treatment options.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society.
Mismatch repair (MMR) genes are implicated in stomach adenocarcinoma (STAD). This study assessed their causal role in STAD, prognostic value, and developed a histopathology-based model to predict MutS homolog 2 (MSH2) expression.Using data from the IEU OpenGWAS database, five Mendelian randomization (MR) models evaluated causal links between MMR genes and gastric cancer (GC). Prognostic relevance was assessed via survival analysis. A random forest model using TCGA hematoxylin and eosin-stained images was trained to predict MSH2 expression. Biological insights were explored via pathomics score, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), immune infiltration, and tumor mutational burden (TMB).MR analysis identified MLH1 and PMS2 as risk genes, while MSH2 had a protective effect. Cox regression confirmed MSH2 as an independent protective factor (HR = 0.690, 95% CI: 0.487-0.977, p < 0.05). The pathomics model predicted MSH2 expression with an AUC of 0.811. A comparison of high- and low-survival-probability (SP) groups showed differentially expressed genes, including SFRP4. The high-SP group had elevated TMB and TP53 mutation frequency.MMR genes, especially MSH2, are critical in STAD development and prognosis. The image-based model effectively predicts MSH2 expression, supporting the integration of genomic and histopathologic data for personalized GC care.Copyright © 2026 Yingqiao Zhang et al. International Journal of Genomics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Gastric cancer (GC) is one of the most prevalent and lethal gastrointestinal malignancies. MutS homolog 2 (MSH2), a DNA mismatch repair protein, has emerged as a promising prognostic biomarker. However, traditional histopathological evaluation is limited by restricted fields compared with whole-slide imaging. This study aimed to investigate whether machine learning-derived digital pathomics features could predict MSH2 expression and clinical outcomes in GC.Hematoxylin and eosin-stained whole-slide images from 234 patients were analyzed to extract quantitative pathological features. A pathomics score (PS) was developed to estimate MSH2 expression. The association between PS and overall survival (OS) was assessed using univariate and multivariate Cox regression. Survival differences between high-PS and low-PS groups were evaluated using Kaplan-Meier analysis. Functional enrichment and immune infiltration analyses were performed to explore potential biological mechanisms.Digital image analysis identified pathomics features associated with MSH2 expression. The PS served as a surrogate marker for MSH2 and effectively stratified patients into prognostic subgroups with significant different OS. High PS was associated with features suggestive of a stronger antitumor immune response, whereas low PS was linked to an immunosuppressive microenvironment.The machine learning-derived pathomics signature shows potential in predicting MSH2 expression. It can serve as a complementary research tool and provide clinically meaningful prognostic information for GC.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on behalf of The American College of Gastroenterology.
Meiosis assures formation of both male and female gametes. However, cytological studies of female meiotic chromosome behavior in plants are scarce, mainly due to the comparatively low number and inaccessibility of female meiotic cells. We present Female Meiotic cell IDentification (FeM-ID), an approach for cytological identification of female meiotic cells in Arabidopsis. By employing ASY1-eYFP-TurboID, female meiotic cells (chromatin and cytoplasm) are specifically labeled by biotin. This facilitates their rapid microscopic identification and detailed assessment of female meiotic chromosome behavior. ASY1-eYFP-TurboID can be transformed or introgressed into different genetic backgrounds without any adverse effects on meiosis in either sex. Our approach enabled us to analyze female meiotic chromosome behavior, including bivalent and univalent frequencies, minimum chiasma numbers and chromosome segregation, in various ecotypes (Col-0, Ler-0, and Ws-2), colchicine-induced tetraploids (Col-4x) and selected meiotic mutants (sporulation 11-1 (spo11-1), meiotic recombination 11 (mre11), and mutL homolog 3 (mlh3), facilitating cytological studies of heterochiasmy (sex-specific differences in recombination rates or patterns). FeM-ID is compatible with other cytological techniques, such as immunolocalization and fluorescence in situ hybridization, which allowed us, for instance, to assess homologous chromosome pairing or to track individual chromosomes in female meiotic cells. In conclusion, FeM-ID represents an approach that fills a long-standing gap in the dissection of female meiotic chromosome behavior in Arabidopsis and holds the potential for application in other plant species.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society of Plant Biologists.
Expression and reconstitution of large proteins in the human proteome are challenging and often require the use of a mammalian cell expression system that is costly and inefficient. Here, we present a protocol to reconstitute catalytically active, full-length NSD1 (nuclear receptor binding SET domain protein 1) and SETD2 (SET domain containing 2, histone lysine methyltransferase) using a clonal baculovirus expression system. We describe steps for producing baculovirus, clonal selection, and protein reconstitution. We then detail procedures for using animatic assays. For complete details on the use and execution of this protocol, please refer to Hsu et al.1.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Some cancers prefer to metabolize lipids for their growth and metastasis. In a recent Cancer Cell study, Niu et al. revealed that SET domain containing 2, histone lysine methyltransferase (SETD2)-deficient pancreatic cancer cells induce the differentiation of lipid-laden cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), which, in turn, transport lipids to promote tumor growth.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Sexual size dimorphism (SSD), which is the sexual differences in body size, has been widely reported in various species including fishes. For Chinese tongue sole (Cynoglossus semilaevis), a flatfish exhibiting typically female-biased SSD, little is known for its epigenetic regulation mechanism, especially the role of circRNAs. Here, we identified the differently expressed abundances of circRNAs in females, males, and pseudo-males to explore the potential functions of circRNAs in Chinese tongue sole SSD. In total, 14,745 novel circRNAs were screened, among which 1461 DE circRNAs were identified from the brain, gonad, liver, and muscle in female, male, and pseudo-male individuals. The ceRNA network was subsequently constructed, including 10 circRNAs, 26 mRNAs, and 11 miRNAs. These DE mRNAs were mainly related to the mRNA surveillance pathway, metabolic pathways, and cellular senescence. Importantly, the ceRNA network has revealed that several circRNAs such as novel_circ_004374 and novel_circ_014597 may regulate homeodomain interacting protein kinase 2 (hipk2) expression by sponging miR-130-x. It is also worth exploring whether or how novel_circ_008696 regulates SET Domain Containing 2, histone lysine methyltransferase (setd2), which in turn affects the epigenetic patterns of different sexual individuals. The present study not only enriches the knowledge on the potential roles of circRNA in the physiological process, but also provides new clues for the explanation of fish SSD. In future studies, the precise function and involvement of circRNAs in female-biased SSD will require more efforts.
Plant breeding relies on the meiotic recombination or crossing over to generate the new combinations of the alleles along and among the chromosomes. However, crossing over is constrained in the crops such as barley by a combination of the low frequency and biased distribution. In this study, we attempted to identify the genes that limit the recombination by performing a suppressor screen for the restoration of fertility to the semi-fertile barley mutant desynaptic10 (des10), carrying a mutation in the barley ortholog of MutL-Homolog 3 (HvMLH3), a member of the MutL-homolog (MLH) family of DNA mismatch repair genes. des10 mutants exhibit reduced recombination and fewer chiasmata, resulting in the loss of obligate crossovers (COs) leading to chromosome mis-segregation. We identified several candidate suppressor lines and confirmed their restored fertility in an Hvmlh3 background in the subsequent generations. We focus on one of the candidate suppressor lines, SuppLine2099, which showed the most complete restoration of fertility. We characterized this line by using a target-sequence enrichment and sequencing (TENSEQ) capture array representing barley orthologs of 46 meiotic genes. We found that SuppLine2099 contained a C/T change in the anti-CO gene RecQ-like helicase 4 (RECQL4) resulting in the substitution of a non-polar glycine to a polar aspartic acid (G700D) amino acid in the conserved helicase domain. Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) genotyping of F3 populations revealed a significant increase in the recombination frequency in lines with Hvrecql4 in the Hvmlh3 background that was associated with the restoration of fertility. The genotyping also indicated that there was nearly double the recombination levels in homozygous Hvrecql4 lines compared to the wild type (WT). However, we did not observe any significant change in the distribution of CO events. Our results confirm the anti-CO role of RECQL4 in a large genome cereal and establish the possibility of testing the utility of increasing recombination in the context of traditional crop improvement.Copyright © 2021 Arrieta, Macaulay, Colas, Schreiber, Shaw, Waugh and Ramsay.
The global epidemic caused by the coronavirus severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) has resulted in the infection of over 200 million people. To extend the knowledge of interactions between SARS-CoV-2 and humans, we systematically investigate the interactome of 29 viral proteins in human cells by using an antibody-based TurboID assay. In total, 1,388 high-confidence human proximal proteins with biotinylated sites are identified. Notably, we find that SARS-CoV-2 manipulates the antiviral and immune responses. We validate that the membrane protein ITGB1 associates angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) to mediate SARS-CoV-2 entry. Moreover, we reveal that SARS-CoV-2 proteins inhibit activation of the interferon pathway through the mitochondrial protein mitochondrial antiviral-signaling protein (MAVS) and the methyltransferase SET domain containing 2, histone lysine methyltransferase (SETD2). We propose 111 potential drugs for the clinical treatment of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) and identify three compounds that significantly inhibit the replication of SARS-CoV-2. The proximity labeling map of SARS-CoV-2 and humans provides a resource for elucidating the mechanisms of viral infection and developing drugs for COVID-19 treatment.Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is a highly aggressive malignant tumor with an extremely poor prognosis. Minichromosome maintenance 8 homologous recombination repair factor (MCM8) is a helicase involved in the elongation step of DNA replication and tumorigenesis. In the present study, the clinical significance and biological function of MCM8 in CCA were investigated. The expression levels of MCM8 in CCA and paracancerous tissues were analyzed using immunohistochemical staining. The potential mechanisms underlying MCM8 and the biological effects of MCM8 in CCA cells were explored using in vitro assays and in vivo mouse xenograft models. The high expression levels of MCM8 in CCA has important clinical significance in predicting disease progression. Knockdown of MCM8 decreased proliferation, promoted apoptosis and suppressed migration of CCA cells. MCM8 knockdown also suppressed tumor growth in vivo. Mechanistically, MCM8 knockdown led to the abnormal downregulation of survivin, XIAP, HSP27, IGF‑1sR, sTNF‑R1, sTNF‑R2, TNF‑α and TNF‑β. Furthermore, downregulation of MCM8 expression inhibited the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway and induced the MAPK9 signaling pathway. MCM8 promoted the malignant progression of CCA, indicating that inhibition of MCM8 may have the potential to serve as a novel molecular targeted therapy.
The development of embryo sacs is crucial for seed production in plants, but the genetic basis regulating the meiotic crossover formation in the macrospore and microspore mother cells remains largely unclear. Here, we report the characterization of a spontaneous rice female sterile variation 1 mutant (fsv1) that showed severe embryo sacs abortion with low seed-setting rate. Through map-based cloning and functional analyses, we isolated the causal gene of fsv1, OsMLH3 encoding a MutL-homolog 3 protein, an ortholog of HvMLH3 in barley and AtMLH3 in Arabidopsis. OsMLH3 and OsMLH1 (MutL-homolog 1) interact to form a heterodimer (MutLγ) to promote crossover formation in the macrospore and microspore mother cells and development of functional megaspore during meiosis, defective OsMLH3 or OsMLH1 in fsv1 and CRISPR/Cas9-based knockout lines results in reduced type I crossover and bivalent frequency. The fsv1 and OsMLH3-knockout lines are valuable germplasms for development of female sterile restorer lines for mechanized seed production of hybrid rice.© 2021 The Authors. Plant Biotechnology Journal published by Society for Experimental Biology and The Association of Applied Biologists and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Emerging evidence highlights defects in DNA damage repair as critical modulators of tumor immunogenicity, yet the mechanistic interplay between repair pathway dynamics and immune checkpoint inhibitor efficacy remains elusive. This study aims to investigate the role of exonuclease 1 (EXO1), a dual-function nuclease involved in homologous recombination (HR) and mismatch repair (MMR), in immunogenomic regulation and immunotherapy response in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD).An integrated multi-omics analysis was performed using LUAD cohorts from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) to assess EXO1 expression, genomic instability, and prognosis. Functional studies were conducted in syngeneic murine models to evaluate the effects of Exo1 ablation on DNA repair pathway kinetics, mutation burden, tumor evolution, and immune cell infiltration. The response to anti-programmed death receptor-1 (PD-1) therapy was assessed in Exo1-deficient versus control tumors.EXO1 overexpression was strongly associated with genomic instability and poor prognosis in LUAD (hazard ratio =1.047, P =3.72×10-8). In murine models, Exo1 ablation induced a "controlled genomic chaos" state, delaying HR‑mediated fidelity (P<0.0001) while accelerating error‑prone non‑homologous end joining (P<0.01), thereby amplifying clonal mutation burden and tumor evolution. This was accompanied by enrichment of tumor‑specific cytotoxic CD8+ T cells (CD39+ Granzyme B+; P<0.0001). Exo1‑deficient tumors exhibited a 100% objective response to anti‑PD‑1 therapy versus 40% in controls (P<0.001), with a synergistic reduction of tumor mass (77.3% versus 21.2%, P<0.01). Crucially, Exo1 suppression spared MMR functionality while preferentially engaging non‑homologous end joining‑driven immunoediting.This work deciphers DNA damage repair‑immune crosstalk governed by biased repair kinetics, and nominates EXO1 abrogation as a transformative strategy to overcome immune checkpoint inhibitor resistance in genomically stable tumors.© AME Publishing Company.
Prexasertib (Prex) is a selective checkpoint kinase 1 and 2 (CHK1/2) inhibitor reported to induce the phosphorylation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) at threonine 172. However, the mechanism by which Prex regulates AMPK and whether this regulation contributes to Prex sensitivity is unknown. Here, we provide data that suggest that Prex directly binds to the cystathionine β-synthase (CBS) pockets of AMPK complex, leading to increased AMPKα Thr172 phosphorylation via CAMKK2 and LKB1. Intriguingly, Prex also functions as an ATP-competitive inhibitor of AMPK, and prolonged Prex treatment significantly inhibited AMPK in vivo. AMPK depletion enhanced cellular sensitivity to CHK1 inhibition, suggesting that Prex-induced cytotoxicity results from inhibition of CHK1 and AMPK. Exonuclease 1 (Exo1) hyperactivation following combined AMPK and CHK1 inhibition may represent a critical mechanism underlying Prex sensitivity. Our findings revealed an additional role of Prex in AMPK regulation and elucidated the functional significance of AMPK inhibition in CHK1 inhibitor-induced cell death.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether the mRNA expression levels of three prime repair exonuclease 1 (TREX1) and galectin 9 (LGALS9) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) are associated with responses to Peg-IFN-α therapy and HBsAg clearance. METHODS: In this prospective study, HBeAg-negative CHB patients receiving Peg-IFN-α were followed for 48 weeks. Patients were classified as the virological response (VR) and non-virological response (NVR) groups based on the changes in HBsAg levels observed at week 48, and as serological response (SR) and non-serological response (NSR) groups based on whether serum HBsAg loss or seroconversion occurred. TREX1 and LGALS9 mRNA levels in PBMCs were quantified by real-time quantitative PCR. Correlations between TREX1 or LGALS9 mRNA levels and HBsAg reduction were assessed using Spearman’s rank correlation. Univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses were performed to identify independent factors associated with VR and SR. The diagnostic performance of TREX1 and LGALS9 was assessed by calculating the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve and area under the ROC curve (AUC). RESULTS: After the treatment period, the observed VR and SR rates were 48.65% and 32.43%, respectively. Dynamic changes in TREX1 and LGALS9 mRNA levels were significantly different between the VR and NVR groups and between the SR and NSR groups. Both TREX1 and LGALS9 mRNA levels at week 24 were positively correlated with HBsAg reduction, and early induction of these genes at week 12 was associated with subsequent HBsAg decline. Multivariate analyses revealed that TREX1 and LGALS9 mRNA levels at weeks 12 and 24 were independently associated with VR and SR. TREX1 at week 12 demonstrated the highest predictive accuracy for VR (AUC = 0.7295) and SR (AUC = 0.8025), while LGALS9 showed optimal prediction for VR at week 12 (AUC = 0.7412) and for SR at week 24 (AUC = 0.8933). The combination of TREX1 and LGALS9 further improved prediction for VR (AUC = 0.8464) and SR (AUC = 0.9308). CONCLUSIONS: TREX1 and LGALS9 are important biomarkers for early therapeutic responses to Peg-IFN-α and HBsAg clearance.
Three-prime repair exonuclease 1 (Trex1) prevents cytosolic DNA accumulation and immune activation, yet the physiological consequences of increased Trex1 expression in vivo remain unclear. In this study, we used Drosophila melanogaster, a model well suited for quantitative analyses of aging, sleep, and circadian rhythms, to generate flies that ubiquitously overexpress murine Trex1 under the Act5C-GAL4 driver, given that a clear Trex1 ortholog has not been identified in flies. Trex1 overexpression significantly extended the lifespan of male flies (40.55 ± 1.10 days in controls; n = 60 vs. 44.98 ± 1.59 days in Trex1; n = 57, p < 0.05, Bonferroni corrected), whereas female flies showed a modest but statistically non-significant increase in lifespan. Interestingly, Trex1 overexpressing flies exhibited more fragmented sleep and reduced circadian rhythm robustness compared with controls. These findings suggest that the mechanisms by which Trex1 overexpression influences lifespan and those regulating sleep and circadian stability may be functionally separable.© The Author(s) 2026.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 35226431
Fasting-mimicking diet (FMD) is a safe and effective strategy in clinical oncology via metabolically restricting tumour growth and remodelling the immunity. To date, few studies have investigated the impact of on tumour-associated macrophages (TAMs), which are a crucial component of immune cells in the tumour microenvironment. Fasting can induce the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) to regulate intracellular protein turnover homoeostasis, while Nuclear Factor Erythroid 2-like 1 (NRF1; encoded by the gene Nfe2l1), which controls proteasome gene transcription, may potentially be induced by fasting. However, whether NRF1 is induced by FMD/fasting, and how NRF1-mediated protein turnover works on TAMs remain unknown. This study investigated the hypothesis that FMD activates the anti-tumour immunity of TAMs by ubiquitinated protein metabolism.Subcutaneous MC38 tumour models were established in WT and myeloid-specific NRF1 knockout (Mye-NFE2L1-/-) C57BL/6 mice, treated with FMD alone or combined with intraperitoneal Trex1 inhibitor (Trex1-IN-1). TAMs were isolated from tumour tissues using CD11b+ magnetic bead sorting. In vitro, bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) were co-cultured with MC38 in fasting medium, with MC38 proliferation assessed by CCK8 assay. BMDM-derived TAMs (B-TAMs) were induced by MC38 supernatant under fasting conditions. IFNβ levels in serum and cell supernatant were measured by ELISA. RNA-seq was performed to compare WT and Mye-NFE2L1-/- BMDMs under fasting conditions. Protein levels of cGAS-Sting pathway components, ubiquitinated proteins, and nuclear NRF1 were analysed by Western blot, while Trex1 ubiquitination was assessed by Co-IP. qPCR quantified IFNβ-related gene expression and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) copy number. Trex1-mitochondria colocalization was examined by immunofluorescence, and Trex1-bound mtDNA levels were determined by ChIP-qPCR.FMD/fasting triggers interferon-β (IFNβ) secretion in TAMs, which is driven by protein metabolism. In TAMs with FMD, an initial accumulation of ubiquitinated proteins occurs concomitantly with the induction of NRF1 in response to fasting-induced energy stress, leading to the ubiquitin/proteasome-dependent proteolysis of the three prime repair exonuclease 1 (Trex1) through UPS. Such a process engages type I interferon responses, which derepress the cGAS-Sting-IFNβ axis to promote anti-tumour effects of TAMs. In the absence of NRF1, Trex1 accumulates due to impaired UPS and binds to mtDNA, disrupting cGAS sensing of mtDNA to inhibit IFNβ secretion in TAMs, which attenuates anti-tumour effects of FMD/fasting.In this study, we revealed for the first time that FMD/fasting coordinates NRF1-UPS and Trex1/Sting-mediated type I interferon responses in TAMs that contribute to suppressing tumour growth. Graphical abstract: FMD upregulates the entry of NRF1 into the TAM nucleus to promote gene expression of proteasome subunits, which induces the ubiquitin/proteasome-dependent proteolysis of Trex1, leading to derepression of the cGAS-Sting-IFNβ axis. On the other hand, FMD triggers increasing of mtDNA in TAMs, promoting the cGAS-Sting-IFNβ axis to release IFNβ. In myeloid NRF1 knockout TAMs, transcriptional levels of proteasome subunits are reduced, resulting in impaired proteolysis of Trex1 and its subsequent accumulation during fasting. Then, Trex1 binds to mtDNA, directing the inhibition of the cGAS-Sting-IFNβ axis and inhibiting IFNβ secretion of macrophages.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Cardiomyocyte telomere shortening is evident during heart failure pathogenesis. Conversely, mice with engineered telomerase deficiency develop myocardial dysfunction accompanied by p53 activation and mitochondrial repression. We aimed to address fundamental gaps in knowledge: whether cardiac dysfunction in mice lacking telomerase components arises from myocardial-intrinsic effects or systemic consequences of telomere shortening, which broader transcriptional programs follow, and what implications these have for clinical heart failure.We generated telomerase-deficient mice until generation 5 (mTRG5) and confirmed shortening telomeres along with increasing cardiac dysfunction by cardiovascular phenotyping and cardiomyocyte mitochondrial function assessment. Transcriptional and regulator analysis confirmed the telomere -p53 -mitochondria axis but extended beyond it, revealing additional involvement of neurohumoral activation, senescence, and inflammation, notably type I interferon signaling. To contextualize these findings, we compared this profile with hypertensive heart failure induced by neurohumoral dysregulation (angiotensin II infusion, nephrectomy, salt overload; ANS) and established a transcriptional hierarchy. In mTRG5 mice, regulators of telomere dysfunction and p53 activation ranked highest by significance and centrality, supporting telomere shortening as the primary upstream driver. Reciprocally, ANS mice showed higher-ranking neurohumoral regulators, indicating these govern secondary pathways. To pursue the strong type I interferon profile, we utilized myocardial profiles of mice lacking three-prime exonuclease 1, an established activator of the cGAS -STING pathway. Matching the profiles, we confirmed pronounced activation of cGAS -STING in mTRG5 mice -and slightly less in ANS mice -providing first evidence for cGAS -STING activation in telomere shortening and heart failure. Integration of the mTRG5 signature with curated transcriptomic datasets from murine and human dilated and ischemic cardiomyopathy revealed robust cross-species and cross-etiology overlap that increased with heart failure severity and decreased with functional recovery.These findings establish telomere dysfunction as a pathogenic driver that engages innate immune signaling via the cGAS -STING pathway, with direct relevance to human heart failure.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology.
Homologous recombination (HR) is critical for error-free lesion bypass. This error-free lesion tolerance pathway is initiated by the RAD51 recombinase, which forms nucleoprotein filaments on single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) to facilitate template-directed repair using homologous sister chromatids. RAD51 filaments are tightly regulated by RAD51 mediator proteins. As such mediators, Shu complexes facilitate HR-directed DNA damage tolerance and are evolutionarily conserved from yeast to humans. The Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans) Shu complex is a heterotrimer consisting of three protein subunits: RFS-1, RIP-1, and SWS-1. However, the biochemical properties of this trimeric complex remain unclear. Here, we report the biochemical characterization of the C. elegans Shu complex and interactions with DNA, ATP, and RAD-51 filaments. We first revealed that the Shu trimer preferentially binds DNA with an exposed 5' end, particularly favoring a fork-shaped double-stranded DNA (dsDNA). Then, we found that the RFS-1/RIP-1/SWS-1 trimer binds to ATP and exhibits DNA-dependent ATPase activity. Through site-specific mutagenesis, we identified the catalytic residues in the RFS-1 domain and validated the ATPase activity. Using fluorescence-based assays, we further demonstrated that the Shu trimer remodels RAD-51 filaments in an ATP-hydrolysis-dependent manner and stabilizes the filaments in an ATP-binding-dependent manner. Using CRISPR-Cas9-induced disruption of the Walker motif in rfs-1, we demonstrate that the ATPase activity of the C. elegans Shu complex is critical for organismal survival under camptothecin-induced genotoxic stress. These findings provide key mechanistic insights into how the C. elegans Shu complex regulates RAD-51 filament dynamics and primes the filaments for downstream HR-mediated DNA repair processes.© 2026 The Author(s). The FEBS Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
End user co-design in the personal digital health technology space is underdeveloped. Clinical uptake of personal digital health technologies has been poor, highlighting a need to cocreate solutions with end users.The study aimed to describe an "end user" co-design framework in the development of 5 prototype personal health apps for patients with different rare or complex diseases.A patient-led, user-centered, collaborative personal health app plus wearable plug-in co-design methodology was developed. Five prototype apps were developed for end users with long COVID-19, pancreatitis, primary ciliary dyskinesia, sarcoidosis, and valosin-containing protein disease by a multidisciplinary partnership including patients, app design and development experts, user experience experts, clinicians, and patient-driven organizations. Phase 1 involved a 6-month co-design process with 5 modules involving patient-driven organizations that included the codevelopment of specifications through group workshops and independent exercises that defined the goals, content, features, and user experience of each app. Phase 2 involved app build-out, internal alpha testing, and beta study preparations. Phase 3 involved a usability beta testing study in which end users used the app and associated wearable/smart devices (Oura ring, Lumia ear device, Empatica EmbracePlus, and MIR Spirobank Spirometer) for up to 5 months. Participant feedback was documented continuously and systematically, centering on the following themes: functionality, usability, harms, benefits, self-explorations, and beta testing study details related to retention and adherence.While unique app goals were codeveloped by each disease group, a central goal across groups was to develop a personal health app enabling users to track subjective, self-reported symptoms, objective measures of health, and unique modifiers of symptoms. A total of 239 end user participants participated in the beta testing pilot study. Enrollment and retention rates were high, ranging from 94% to 100% and 92.2% to 100%, respectively. All active participants gave some form of feedback: there were 257 unique participant suggestions of how to specifically modify or improve the study app experience. Participant feedback themes commonly centered around customization to reduce daily burden and improve personal tailoring of the app. Participants' desires surrounding symptom displays were heterogeneous.Personal health app co-design is rooted in a complex digital landscape that requires a significant amount of up-front effort and time. However, the up-front investment of time can result in rich and diverse end user feedback that could save time in the app development trajectory to implementation. This paper provides a co-design framework and the building blocks of 5 prototype personal health apps with publicly available open-source code on GitHub. These prototypes could be leveraged for improving understanding of, communicating symptoms of, and providing n-of-1 suggestions for rare or complex diseases, providing benefit to patient communities and individual patients.©Sarah Margaret Goodday, Emma Karlin, Madeleine Sorensen, Robin Yang, Paul Gordon, Caresse Opoku, Daniel Vuong, Jenee Wilson, Diane McKenzie, Jules Piccotti, Massimiliano Tavanti, Megan Fitzgerald, Yochai Re'em, Hannah Wei, Megan Golden, Daniel Morgan, Michele Manion, Ricardo Mosquera, Tricha Shivas, Elise Hoover, Allison Peck, Nathan Peck, Zollie Yavarow, Heidi Bjornson-Pennell, Andra Stratton, Samali Anova Sahoo, Douglas Arbittier, Elizabeth Arbittier, Renee Goff, Donna Harvin-Graham, Nancy Howard, Camille Knudsen, Mary Oldham, Stephen Friend. Originally published in JMIR mHealth and uHealth (https://mhealth.jmir.org), 20.07.2026.
Kyoto University Substance (KUS) 121 is a novel modulator of valosin-containing protein (VCP), with reported protective effects against ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury across various organs. This study evaluated the therapeutic effect of KUS121 on axial pattern flaps subjected to I/R injury.Axial pattern flaps nourished by superficial epigastric vessels were created in Sprague-Dawley rats, measuring 3 × 6 cm, and subjected to 8 hours of ischemia followed by reperfusion. KUS121 (100 mg/kg) was administered intraperitoneally 1 hour before flap elevation (KUS121-pretreated group) or immediately after reperfusion (KUS121-posttreated group), followed by once-daily administration from postoperative day 1 to 6. The control group received no KUS121. Flap survival was evaluated macroscopically on day 7. Histological and immunohistochemical evaluations were performed on day 3 in the KUS121-pretreated and control groups.Flap survival was significantly higher in the KUS121-pretreated group (80.7±7.8%) and KUS121-posttreated group (96.2±1.1%) than in the control group (48.8±5.3%; p=0.002 and p<0.001, respectively). On day 3, TdT-mediated dUTP-biotin nick-end labeling (TUNEL)-positive cells were significantly decreased in the KUS121-pretreated group compared to the control group in the distal flap region (2.3±0.5 vs. 7.7±1.1 cells/field; p<0.001) and in the middle region (2.3±0.4 vs. 9.0±1.1 cells/field; p<0.001). C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP)-positive cells were also significantly decreased in the KUS121-pretreated group compared with controls in the distal (9.0±1.5 vs. 21.4±1.8 cells/field; p<0.001) and middle (6.8±0.8 vs. 23.5±2.9 cells/field; p<0.001) regions.KUS121 markedly improves axial pattern flap survival by attenuating I/R-induced apoptosis and endoplasmic reticulum stress.Copyright © 2026 by the American Society of Plastic Surgeons.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42431020 is a review article
Mutations in the valosin-containing protein (VCP) gene lead to a hereditary type of inclusion body myositis (hIBM), in which sarcoplasmic and myonuclear inclusions with TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) pathology and mitochondrial abnormalities are observed in histological analysis. Pathophysiological conditions in the cell cause the protein quality control system to depend on the autophagy-lysosome pathway (ALP) for degradation of accumulated misfolded proteins and mitochondrial turnover. BCL2-associated athanogene 3 (BAG3) protein has a role in initiating the ALP. Our aim was to ameliorate disease processes resulting from mitochondrial abnormalities and misfolded protein aggregation by upregulating the ALP through overexpression of human BAG3 (hBAG3). The VCP-A232E mouse, a model for hIBM, received AAVrh74.tMCK.hBAG3 systemically at 3 months of age, and outcome measures, including functional, histological, and molecular studies, were assessed 9 months post-gene delivery. hBAG3 treatment improved treadmill running distance and rotarod duration, reduced the number of TDP-43-positive aggregates, and decreased the number of fibers showing abnormalities in mitochondrial enzyme histochemistry, compared with the untreated cohort. Moreover, hBAG3 gene therapy resulted in improvements in mitophagy and mitochondrial homeostasis observed as increased levels in mitophagy markers Parkin and Bnip3, mitochondria biogenesis marker Pgc1α and mitochondrial DNA-encoded subunits of complex IV, Cox1 and Cox3. In addition, the LC-II/I ratio increased, indicating increased autophagic flux. Our study presents evidence that the strategy of supporting the ALP system by overexpressing BAG3 has potential therapeutic use for myodegenerative conditions associated with abnormal protein aggregates and mitochondrial turnover.
Antibodies are known to prevent infection by binding to pathogens extracellularly and blocking their entry into cells. What is less well known is that a proportion of pathogens, called the persistent fraction, still succeed in entering cells despite the antibodies bound to their surface. Fortunately, all mammalian cells express a dedicated cytosolic antibody receptor called TRIM21 that intercepts these incoming antibody-bound pathogens as soon as they enter the cytosol. Once it has detected an infection event, TRIM21 uses its E3 ubiquitin ligase activity to target pathogens for degradation. Our early work showed that TRIM21-mediated neutralization was both a fast and efficient process, capable of causing the degradation of incoming viral particles within hours. What was less clear was how TRIM21 achieves this degradation. In a recent study, we reveal that TRIM21 mediates a system of selective autophagy to direct incoming pathogens into the lysosome.Abbreviations: TRIM21:Tripartite-motif containing protein 21; VCP: Valosin-Containing Protein. CRISPR: Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats; FACS: fluorescence activated cell sorting; GFP: green fluorescent protein; LC3: Microtubule-associated Protein 1 Light Chain 3; TBK1: TANK-binding kinase 1; FIP200: FAK family kinase-interacting protein of 200 kDa; ULK1: Unc-51-like autophagy activating kinase 1; PI3K: Phosphoinositide 3-Kinase; ATG: autophagy-related gene; TMEM41B: transmembrane protein 41B; VPS37A: Vacuolar Protein Sorting-Associated Protein 37A; RBSN: Rabenosyn-5; EPG5: Ectopic P-Granules 5 Autophagy Tethering Factor; NDP52: Nuclear Dot Protein 52; ADX: antibody-dependent xenophagy; p62/SQSTM1: Protein 62/ Sequestosome 1; LPS: Lipopolysaccharide.
Gastric cancer (GC) is one of the most prevalent and life‑threatening malignancies of the digestive tract worldwide. Ribonucleotide reductase regulatory subunit M2 (RRM2), a rate‑limiting subunit in deoxyribonucleotide synthesis, is overexpressed and is associated with a poor prognosis in various solid tumors. However, its functional role and mechanisms in GC‑specific malignant epithelial cell populations remain unclear. Single‑cell transcriptomic data from GC and adjacent normal tissues were analyzed. Key malignant epithelial cell populations were identified using inferCNV, pseudotime trajectory analysis, and weighted gene co‑expression network analysis. RRM2 was identified as a core gene by integrating data from TCGA‑STAD, GSE66229, and GSE84433 datasets and analyzing its clinical relevance. To evaluate the biological effects of RRM2, functional assays, including colony formation, apoptosis, Transwell migration, and wound healing assays, were performed using AGS and HGC‑27 GC cells with RRM2 knockdown. DNA damage was assessed using the alkaline comet assay and phosphorylated histone H2AX (γH2AX) immunofluorescence, and the expression of DNA damage repair‑related proteins [including γH2AX, phosphorylated tumor protein p53 (p‑p53), RAD51 recombinase (RAD51), poly(ADP‑ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP‑1), and X‑ray repair cross‑complementing protein 1 (XRCC1)] was examined using western blotting. Through analysis of gastric epithelial cell populations, a major malignant epithelial effector population in GC was identified, enriched in cells with active DNA replication and repair. Differentially expressed genes specific to this population were intersected with prognostic genes from GEO GC datasets, resulting in the identification of RRM2 as a key effector gene. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that high RRM2 expression was associated with an active immune microenvironment. Functional assays showed that RRM2 knockdown significantly inhibited GC cell proliferation and migration while promoting apoptosis. In addition, RRM2 knockdown exacerbated DNA damage, upregulated p‑p53, and downregulated RAD51, with no significant effects on PARP‑1 or XRCC1 expression. Collectively, RRM2 was shown to be a crucial regulator of the malignant phenotype of gastric epithelial cells. It promoted GC cell proliferation, invasion, and migration and modulated DNA damage and homologous recombination repair. In addition, RRM2 influenced the tumor immune microenvironment, highlighting its potential as a driver of malignant progression and a promising target for immunotherapy in GC.
The immunoregulatory role of androgen receptor (AR) in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is still poorly understood. Herein, we found that inhibition of AR function could induce immunogenic cell death (ICD) and trigger endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress in vitro. Mechanistically, AR transcriptionally regulated the valosin-containing protein (VCP) expression via directly binding the promoter of VCP. AR inhibitor promoted dendritic cells (DCs) maturation in vitro and increased tumor-infiltrating DCs and CD8+ T cells in vivo. Combination of AR inhibitor with anti-PD-1 therapy remodels tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) and reduces tumor growth in mouse models of HCC. Addition of oncolytic virus further augments the therapeutic activity of the combination regimen. Our study shows the molecular mechanism for regulating VCP expression by AR and suggests that inhibition of AR has the potential to increase the efficacy of immunotherapy in HCC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Abnormalities in the cell cycle are fundamental mechanisms underlying tumor progression in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Therapeutic strategies targeting mutations or abnormal activation of genes and pathways associated with cell cycle control are under development. However, the efficacy of cell cycle-targeted therapies is currently limited; therefore, identifying additional biomarkers and therapeutic targets is necessary.Copy number variation was analyzed using The Cancer Genome Atlas dataset for identifying FIRRM (fidgetin-like 1-interacting regulator of recombination and mitosis) as a potential driver of HCC development, and evaluating its clinical significance. Furthermore, the biological significance of FIRRM in HCC was validated using in vitro and in vivo studies involving FIRRM-knockout HCC cell lines.FIRRM is located on amplified chromosome 1q and exhibits elevated expression in tumor cells. It was identified as an independent poor prognostic factor in patients with HCC, and immunohistochemical staining revealed that it was primarily localized in the cytoplasm and membranes of HCC cells. FIRRM knockout suppressed HCC cell proliferation, reduced polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1) phosphorylation, and inhibited mitotic progression and the G2-to-M transition of the cell cycle. Furthermore, FIRRM knockout inhibited tumor proliferation in vivo.FIRRM was identified as a novel driver gene in HCC, which accelerated tumor proliferation through PLK1-mediated mitotic progression and promotion of the G2/M transition. These findings suggest that FIRRM is a promising target for HCC therapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Japanese Society of Gastroenterology.
Homologous recombination (HR) deficiency upon Breast Cancer Gene 2 (BRCA2) loss arises from defects in the formation of RAD51 nucleoprotein filaments. We demonstrate that loss of the anti-recombinase Fidgetin Like 1 (FIGNL1) retains RAD51 loading at DNA double-stranded breaks (DSBs) in BRCA2-deficient cells, leading to genome stability, HR proficiency, and viability of BRCA2-deficient mouse embryonic stem cells. Mechanistically, we demonstrate that strand invasion and subsequent HR defects upon BRCA2 loss primarily arise from the unrestricted removal of RAD51 from DSB sites by FIGNL1, rather than from defective RAD51 loading. Furthermore, we identify that the MMS22L-TONSL complex interacts with FIGNL1 and is critical for HR in BRCA2/FIGNL1 double-deficient cells. These findings identify a pathway for tightly regulating RAD51 activity to promote efficient HR, offering insights into mechanisms of chemoresistance in BRCA2-deficient tumors.
The three-prime repair exonuclease 1 (TREX1), an intracellular double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) degrader that inhibits the stimulator of interferon (IFN) genes (STING) pathway, is turned over by E3 ligase TRIM24-mediated proteasomal degradation. To uncover TREX1-stabilizers in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), mass spectrometry is conducted, and 374 candidates are identified, with the RING Finger and WD Repeat Domain 3 (RFWD3) as a TREX1 protector that sequesters it from TRIM24. Overexpression of RFWD3 promotes tumor growth with increased myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), while inhibition of RFWD3 increases intracellular dsDNA levels, activates the STING-IFN signaling, decreases MDSCs, and enhances the efficacy of PD-L1 blockade in murine NSCLC models. Furthermore, smoker patients have higher RFWD3 levels than non-smoker patients, and cigarette smoke extract, PM2.5, and benzo(a)pyrene upregulatesRFWD3 via transcription factor aryl hydrocarbon receptor. These results indicate a role of RFWD3 in tobacco smoke and haze (smohaze)-promoted immune evasion, inhibition of which activates STING-IFN signaling and synergizes with immune checkpoint inhibitors in NSCLC.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common and lethal primary malignant tumor of the adult central nervous system, accounting for approximately half of all gliomas. Although RING finger and WD repeat domain 3 (RFWD3) has been implicated in the regulation of various cancers, its role and underlying mechanisms in GBM progression remain unclear. In this study, analysis of the GEPIA online database confirmed that RFWD3 expression is significantly elevated in GBM tumor tissues. We found increased RFWD3 protein levels in U87 and T98 GBM cell lines and that suppression of RFWD3 markedly reduced cell viability and increased apoptosis in the GBM lines. Moreover, RFWD3 knockdown significantly inhibited their migration and invasion. Flow cytometry analysis revealed that RFWD3 inhibition induced G2/M cell cycle arrest (U87: G1 phase from 69.03% to 50.48%, G2/M phase from 16.54% to 33.01%; T98: G1 phase from 67.31% to 48.32%, G2/M phase from 17.10% to 33.73%). Furthermore, suppression of RFWD3 downregulated the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. These findings indicate that RFWD3 promotes GBM cell growth and migration by facilitating G2/M phase progression through the Wnt/β-catenin pathway. Targeting RFWD3 may represent a promising strategy for inhibiting GBM progression.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Association of Neuropathologists, Inc. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
RING finger and WD repeat domain 3 (RFWD3) expression is elevated in various tumor types, but its precise role in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains unclear. This study aims to investigate the biological function of RFWD3 in NSCLC and the associated molecular pathways. RFWD3 expression was knocked down in NSCLC cells through transfection. Cell apoptosis was analyzed using flow cytometry, cell viability was assessed using the cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8), and the migration and invasion of NSCLC cells were evaluated using Transwell chamber assays. Additionally, the expression of BAX, BCL-2, cleaved-caspase-3, and key signaling molecules involved in the ERK/p38 pathway was determined using Western blotting. The expression of RFWD3 was found to be elevated in NSCLC cells compared with normal lung epithelial BEAS-2B cells. Its knockdown led to reduced cell proliferation, migration, and invasion and increased apoptosis rate, partially through the inhibition of the ERK/p38 signaling pathway. Knockdown of the RFWD3 gene inhibited NSCLC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion while also inducing apoptosis. These effects are partially attributed to the blockade of the ERK/p38 signaling pathway.© 2025 Ting Ma et al., published by Sciendo.
Improving fertility is a key goal in goat production. This study aimed to detect single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with female goat reproductive performance for use in selection processes.Nine reproductive traits were evaluated, including litter size and age at the first, second, and third parities, as well as intervals between parities, in 31 female goats (2 purebred and 29 crossbred goats in various combinations of seven breeds). DNA was extracted from blood, and SNP data were obtained using the genotyping by sequencing method. After filtering for allele depth and missing genotype data, the retained SNPs were subjected to population structure analysis and association analysis with the nine traits. For the association analysis, SNPs with false discovery rates ≤ 0.05 were considered significant. Polymerase chain reaction allele competitive extension (PACE) genotyping assay was applied to develop genetic markers.An average of 304,852 SNPs were initially detected in the 31 female goats. After filtering, 21,665 SNPs were retained. The first two principal components obtained from individual genotypes classified the 31 goats into three clusters. In the association analysis, six SNPs on four chromosomes were significantly associated with the litter size at first parity. The most significant SNP was detected on chromosome 4, and three genes-IKAROS family zinc finger 1 (IKZF1), fidgetin-like 1 (FIGNL1), and dopa decarboxylase (DDC)-were found within 100 kb downstream and upstream of the SNP. The PACE genotyping assay confirmed genotypes at this SNP with a 96% concordance rate.SNPs significantly associated with litter size at first parity, candidate genes, and the PACE genotyping methods applied in this study can be used for selecting female goats in future genetic improvement programs. However, further study on the frequency of genetic mutation with a larger sample size and functional studies of the candidate genes are required.
Homologous recombination (HR) is critical for maintaining genome stability, relying on RAD51 recombinase to catalyze homology-dependent accurate DNA repair. While various cellular modulators control HR, Carver, Yu, et al. reveal a unique molecular mechanism used by FIDGETIN-LIKE-1 (FIGNL1) that dissociates RAD51 from DNA through RAD51 N terminus and FIGNL1 hexamer assembly.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Maintaining genome integrity is an essential and challenging process. RAD51 recombinase, the central component of several crucial processes in repairing DNA and protecting genome integrity, forms filaments on DNA, which are tightly regulated. One of these RAD51 regulators is FIGNL1 (fidgetin-like 1), which prevents RAD51 genotoxic chromatin association in normal cells and persistent RAD51 foci upon DNA damage. The cryogenic electron microscopy-imaged structure of FIGNL1 in complex with RAD51 reveals that FIGNL1 forms a nonplanar hexamer and encloses RAD51 N terminus in the FIGNL1 hexamer pore. Mutations in pore loop or catalytic residues of FIGNL1 render it defective in filament disassembly and are lethal in mouse embryonic stem cells. Our study reveals a distinct mechanism for removing RAD51 from bound substrates and provides the molecular basis for FIGNL1 in maintaining genome stability.
Skipped: PubMed ID 39481482 is a review article
Two recombinases, RAD51 and DMC1, catalyze meiotic break repair to ensure crossovers (COs) between homologous chromosomes (interhomolog) rather than between sisters (intersister). FIDGETIN-LIKE-1 (FIGL1) downregulates both recombinases. However, the understanding of how FIGL1 functions in meiotic repair remains limited. Here, we discover new genetic interactions of Arabidopsis thaliana FIGL1 that are important in vivo determinants of meiotic repair outcome. In figl1 mutants, compromising RAD51-dependent repair, either through the loss of RAD51 paralogs (RAD51B or XRCC2) or RAD54 or by inhibiting RAD51 catalytic activity, results in either unrepaired breaks or meiotic CO defects. Further, XRCC2 physically interacts with FIGL1 and partially counteracts FIGL1 activity for RAD51 focus formation. Our data indicate that RAD51-mediated repair mechanisms compensate FIGL1 dysfunction. FIGL1 is not necessary for intersister repair in dmc1 but is essential for the completion of meiotic repair in mutants such as asy1 that have impaired DMC1 functions and interhomolog bias. We show that FIGL1 attenuates interhomolog repair, and ASY1 counteracts FIGL1 to promote interhomolog recombination. Altogether, this study underlines that multiple factors can counteract FIGL1 activity to promote accurate meiotic repair.© 2024 The Author(s). New Phytologist © 2024 New Phytologist Foundation.
The Homologous Recombination Factor With OB-Fold (HROB) plays a role in homologous recombination and DNA replication, where it enhances the MCM8-MCM9 helicase complex activity. Recent findings link biallelic germline HROB variants to primary gonadal insufficiency (hypergonadotropic hypogonadism), a phenotype also associated with MCM8/MCM9 deficiency. Here, we describe a family where two individuals with biallelic HROB variants presented with hypergonadotropic hypogonadism and colonic polyposis. Exome sequencing identified three unique HROB variants: a likely pathogenic nonsense variant (c.1267C>T [p.(Gln423*)]) in exon four, and two missense variants (c.1363C>G [p.(Leu455Val)] and c.1318A>G [p.(Ser440Gly)]) in exon five. RNA analysis and protein mapping indicate that the nonsense variant is likely pathogenic, whereas the missense variants remain of uncertain significance. Mutational signature analysis of polyposis tissue did not reveal signatures directly linked to HROB deficiency, yet a review of published cases and analyses of cohorts with unexplained polyposis/cancer identified additional individuals with HROB variants exhibiting hypergonadotropic hypogonadism or colonic polyposis. These findings reinforce the association between biallelic germline HROB variants and hypergonadotropic hypogonadism and suggest a potential role in colonic polyposis predisposition. We recommend incorporating HROB into diagnostic gene panels for hypergonadotropic hypogonadism, especially in cases where colonic polyposis is also present. Furthermore, we emphasize the importance of additional studies to comprehensively characterize HROB's phenotypic impact and assess its contribution to disease risk.© 2026 The Author(s). American Journal of Medical Genetics Part A published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Cadmium (Cd) is a heavy metal with well-documented carcinogenic properties. While both genetic and epigenetic modifications have been demonstrated to contribute to Cd-induced carcinogenesis through the dysregulation of oncogenic signaling pathways,the mechanistic crosstalk between them is not fully elucidated. Here, we combined a Cd-induced cellular malignant transformation model with integrated genomic and transcriptomic analyses to elucidate a novel pathway linking Cd exposure to metabolic reprogramming via genetic and epitranscriptomic dysregulation. We found that Cd induced mutagenesis in DNA polymerase Nu (POLN), resulting in pronounced downregulation of circ_FANCA-a key event that enhances malignant transformation. Mechanistic studies revealed that POLN mutations promoted the recognition of N6-methyladenosine (m6A)-modified circ_FANCA, which recruited the HRSP12-POP1 endonuclease complex to cleave m6A-containing loop structures, thereby accelerating circRNA decay. The loss of circ_FANCA, which functions as a tumor suppressor, elicited hyperactivation of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, establishing a metabolic milieu conducive to oncogenesis. This finding reveals a novel mechanistic framework for understanding chemical carcinogenesis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is characterized by poor prognosis and limited treatment options. The homologous recombination factor with OB-fold (HROB) is reportedly associated with DNA repair, playing an essential role in a variety of cancers. However, the functional impact, clinical relevance, and underlying mechanisms of HROB in LUAD remain elusive, prompting this study to comprehensively characterize its expression profile and pathogenetic contributions.We first systematically profiled HROB expression across pan-cancer contexts and multiple cell lines. To characterize its clinical relevance in LUAD, we employed receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curves, Kaplan-Meier survival analyses, and univariate and multivariate Cox regression modeling. Potential molecular mechanisms underlying HROB function were interrogated enrichment analyses and immune correlation studies. Using RT-PCR, we quantified HROB expression in different LUAD cell lines, followed by functional characterization through Cell Counting Kit-8(CCK-8), 5-Ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU), wound-healing, and Transwell assays.HROB exhibited significant overexpression in LUAD tissues compared to normal, with high diagnostic accuracy. Elevated HROB expression was strongly associated with adverse clinical outcomes. Bioinformatics analysis revealed HROB's involvement in modulating immune cell infiltration, regulating cell cycle progression and DNA repair pathways. Besides, BUB1B, BUB1, NUF2, CCNB2, CCNB1, KIF11, KIF2C, TPX2, DLGAP5, and CDCA8 were identified as potential hub genes within HROB-associated signaling modules. Knocking down HROB expression inhibited LUAD cell proliferation, migration, and invasion.HROB is upregulated in LUAD and represents a promising prognostic biomarker, driving tumor proliferation, migration, and invasion.© 2025. The Author(s).
Double-strand breaks (DSBs) are the most cytotoxic DNA damages that arise from endogenous processes (oxidative metabolism as well as external stressors); unrepaired DSBs are consistently found in the hippocampus and cortex of Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains and are thought to contribute to neuronal dysfunction and degeneration. A molecular axis involving histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC6) and an E3 ubiquitin ligase ring finger protein 168 (RNF168) is required for ubiquitination of phosphorylated histone variant H2A.X and the subsequent downstream repair pathway. Herein, we propose that disruption of the HDAC6-RNF168-H2A.X axis is a core mechanism underlying defective DSB repairs in AD and discuss the potential of selectively targeting HDAC6 to restore genomic stability in vulnerable neurons.
Primary Ovarian Insufficiency (POI), a significant cause of female infertility, involves premature ovarian dysfunction before the age of 40 and is influenced by genetic predispositions, autoimmune disorders, environmental factors, and metabolic changes. In this study, we employed Whole Exome Sequencing (WES) to explore genetic variations linked to POI in Bangladeshi women.This study encompassed 30 Bangladeshi women aged 16 to 40 diagnosed with POI. The diagnosis was based on clinical criteria, including elevated Follicle-Stimulating Hormone levels and a history of at least four months of oligomenorrhea or amenorrhea. WES was performed on POI cases and used population specific internal cohort to filter out and identify genes impacting ovarian function. Subsequently, Sanger Sequencing was used to validate pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants.We detected seven pathogenic variants in 23% of all POI cases (7/30) across six genes: Thyroglobulin (TG), Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone Receptor (TSHR), tubulin beta 8 class viii (TUBB8), PR/SET domain 9 (PRDM9), required for meiotic nuclear division 1 homolog (RMND1), and homologous recombination factor with OB-fold (HROB). Two novel likely pathogenic variants were identified, including a heterozygous frameshift variant in TG (p.H209Pfs11) and a heterozygous missense variant in TSHR (p.T1904C). Additionally, variants of uncertain significance were found in 63% (19/30) of the cases, with seven being novel. Incidental findings of pathogenic variants were observed in several genes, with Hemoglobin subunit Beta (HBB) being the most common.This study highlights the utility of whole exome sequencing in identifying genetic risk factors for POI, suggesting that incorporating genetic screening into routine clinical practice could improve diagnostic and therapeutic strategies, particularly in regions lacking genomic data on this condition.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Infertility affects approximately one-sixth of the people of childbearing age worldwide, causing not only economic burdens of treatment for families with fertility problems but also psychological stress for patients and presenting challenges to societal and economic development. Premature ovarian insufficiency (POI) refers to the loss of ovarian function in women before the age of 40 due to the depletion of follicles or decreased quality of remaining follicles, constituting a significant cause of female infertility. In recent years, with the help of the rapid development in genetic sequencing technology, it has been demonstrated that genetic factors play a crucial role in the onset of POI. Among the population suffering from POI, genetic studies have revealed that genes involved in processes such as meiosis, DNA damage repair, and mitosis account for approximately 37.4% of all pathogenic and potentially pathogenic genes identified. FA complementation group M (FANCM) is a group of genes involved in the damage repair of DNA interstrand crosslinks (ICLs), including FANCA-FANCW. Abnormalities in the FANCM genes are associated with female infertility and FANCM gene knockout mice also exhibit phenotypes similar to those of POI. During the genetic screening of POI patients, this study identified a suspicious variant in FANCM. This study aims to explore the pathogenic mechanisms of the FANCM genes of the FA pathway and their variants in the development of POI. We hope to help shed light on potential diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for the affected individuals.One POI patient was included in the study. The inclusion criteria for POI patients were as follows: women under 40 years old exhibiting two or more instances of basal serum follicle-stimulating hormone levels>25 IU/L (with a minimum interval of 4 weeks inbetween tests), alongside clinical symptoms of menstrual disorders, normal chromosomal karyotype analysis results, and exclusion of other known diseases that can lead to ovarian dysfunction. We conducted whole-exome sequencing for the POI patient and identified pathogenic genes by classifying variants according to the standards and guidelines established by the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG). Subsequently, the identified variants were validated through Sanger sequencing and subjected to bioinformatics analysis. Plasmids containing wild-type and mutant FANCM genes were constructed and introduced into 293T cells. The 293T cells transfected with wild-type and mutant human FANCM plasmids and pEGFP-C1 empty vector plasmids were designated as the EGFP FANCM-WT group, the EGFP FANCM-MUT group, and the EGFP group, respectively. To validate the production of truncated proteins, cell proteins were extracted 48 hours post-transfection from the three groups and confirmed using GFP antibody. In order to investigate the impact on DNA damage repair, immunofluorescence experiments were conducted 48 hours post-transfection in the EGFP FANCM-WT group and the EGFP FANCM-MUT group to examine whether the variant affected FANCM's ability to localize on chromatin. Mitomycin C was used to induce ICLs damage in vitro in both the EGFP FANCM-WT group and the EGFP FANCM-MUT group, which was followed by verification of its effect on ICLs damage repair using γ-H2AX antibody.In a POI patient from a consanguineous family, we identified a homozygous variant in the FANCM gene, c.1152-1155del:p.Leu386Valfs*10. The patient presented with primary infertility, experiencing irregular menstruation since menarche at the age of 16. Hormonal evaluation revealed an FSH level of 26.79 IU/L and an anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) level of 0.07 ng/mL. Vaginal ultrasound indicated unsatisfactory visualization of the ovaries on both sides and uterine dysplasia. The patient's parents were a consanguineous couple, with the mother having regular menstrual cycles. The patient had two sisters, one of whom passed away due to osteosarcoma, while the other exhibited irregular menstruation, had been diagnosed with ovarian insufficiency, and remained childless. Bioinformatics analysis revealed a deletion of four nucleotides (c.1152-1155del) in the exon 6 of the patient's FANCM gene. This variant resulted in a frameshift at codon 386, introducing a premature stop codon at codon 396, which ultimately led to the production of a truncated protein consisting of 395 amino acids. In vitro experiments demonstrated that this variant led to the production of a truncated FANCM protein of approximately 43 kDa and caused a defect in its nuclear localization, with the protein being present only in the cytoplasm. Following treatment with mitomycin C, there was a significant increase in γ-H2AX levels in 293T cells transfected with the mutant plasmid (P<0.01), indicating a statistically significant impairment of DNA damage repair capability caused by this variant.The homozygous variant in the FANCM gene, c.1152-1155del:p.Leu386Valfs*10, results in the production of a truncated FANCM protein. This truncation leads to the loss of its interaction site with the MHF1-MHF2 complex, preventing its entry into the nucleus and the subsequent recognition of DNA damage. Consequently, the localization of the FA core complex on chromatin is disrupted, impeding the normal activation of the FA pathway and reducing the cell's ability to repair damaged ICLs. By disrupting the rapid proliferation and meiotic division processes of primordial germ cells, the reserve of oocytes is depleted, thereby triggering premature ovarian insufficiency in females.© 2024《四川大学学报（医学版）》编辑部 版权所有Copyright ©2024 Editorial Office of Journal of Sichuan University (Medical Sciences).
AO: acridine orange; ATM: ATM serine/threonine kinase; CHEK1: checkpoint kinase 1; CHEK2: checkpoint kinase 2; CI: combination index; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; DSBs: double-strand breaks; GBM: glioblastoma; HR: homologous recombination; H2AX: H2A.X variant histone; IHC: immunohistochemistry; LAPTM4B: lysosomal protein transmembrane 4 beta; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; PARP: poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase; RAD51: RAD51 recombinase; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; SSBs: single-strand breaks; RNF168: ring finger protein 168; XPO1: exportin 1.
Skipped: PubMed ID 36771081 is a review article
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) exhibits significant familial aggregation; however, its susceptibility genes are largely unknown. Thus, this study aimed to identify germline mutations that might contribute to the risk of familial NPC, and explore their biological functions.Whole-exome sequencing was performed in 13 NPC pedigrees with multiple cases. Mutations co-segregated with disease status were further validated in a cohort composed of 563 probands from independent families, 2,953 sporadic cases, and 3,175 healthy controls. Experimental studies were used to explore the functions of susceptibility genes and their disease-related mutations.The three rare missense mutations in POLN (DNA polymerase nu) gene, P577L, R303Q, and F545C, were associated with familial NPC risk (5/576 [0·87%] in cases vs. 2/3374 [0·059%] in healthy controls with an adjusted OR of 44·84 [95% CI:3·91-514·34, p = 2·25 × 10-3]). POLN was involved in Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) lytic replication in NPC cells in vitro. POLN promoted viral DNA replication, immediate-early and late lytic gene expression, and progeny viral particle production, ultimately affecting the proliferation of host cells. The three mutations were located in two pivotal functional domains and were predicted to alter the protein stability of POLN in silico. Further assays demonstrated that POLN carrying any of the three mutations displayed reduced protein stability and decreased expression levels, thereby impairing its ability to promote complete EBV lytic replication and facilitate cell survival.We identified a susceptibility gene POLN for familial NPC and elucidated its function.This study was funded by the National Key Research and Development Program of China (2021YFC2500400); the National Key Research and Development Program of China (2020YFC1316902); the Basic and Applied Basic Research Foundation of Guangdong Province, China (2021B1515420007); the National Natural Science Foundation of China (81973131); the National Natural Science Foundation of China (82003520); the National Natural Science Foundation of China (81903395).Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Background: By recruiting the MCM8-MCM9 helicase to DNA damage site, the Homologous Recombination Factor With OB-Fold (HROB) is involved in the repair of inter-strand crosslink and homologous recombination. Previous studies have shown that HROB may play an oncogenic role by promoting cell proliferation and chemoresistance in several tumor types. However, the potential diagnostic and prognostic values of HROB have not been systemically explored in pan-cancer. Methods: We analyzed the expression pattern of HROB among tumor tissues and normal tissues in several public databases, including Human Protein Atlas and the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and investigated the association between the HROB expression and pathological stage and patient prognosis. We also analyzed the association between HROB expression and cancer stemness and immune infiltration of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) and CD8+ T cells in pan-cancer. Finally, we explored the potential biological function of HROB through pathway enrichment analysis. Results: In most tumor types, HROB is overexpressed in tumor tissues compared with non-tumor tissues. High HROB expression was correlated with poor prognosis and advanced pathological stages. HROB expression was robustly correlated with cancer stemness. Moreover, significant correlations between CAFs, CD8+ T-cell infiltration, and HROB expression were observed in several tumor types. Pathway enrichment analysis revealed that cell cycle and mitotic-regulated pathways were strongly enriched in HROB co-expressed genes. Conclusion: HROB may be a potential diagnostic and prognostic biomarker in pan-cancer, which may play a role in tumorigenesis and disease progression by affecting the cancer stemness of tumor tissues and immune cell infiltration.Copyright © 2022 Liu and Wang.
Homology-directed DNA repair (HDR) is critical for genome stability and tumor suppression. HDR is initiated by the RAD51 single-stranded (ss)DNA nucleoprotein filament, which conducts the homology search and invades a homologous DNA template, creating a displacement-loop (D-loop). The RAD51 filament is assisted in these processes by several proteins. One such protein is RAD51-associated protein 1 (RAD51AP1), which binds DNA and RNA and directly interacts with RAD51. Of note, RAD51AP1 overexpression is associated with poor prognosis in several different cancer types. Here, we show that RAD51AP1 activity is regulated by phosphorylation. RAD51AP1 bearing S277/282A mutations is more proficient in the stimulation of D-loop formation than wild-type RAD51AP1 or phosphomimetic RAD51AP1-S277/282D. In EMSAs, RAD51AP1 with S277/282A mutations more avidly binds ssDNA, double-stranded (ds)DNA, and the nucleosome core particle than wild-type RAD51AP1 or RAD51AP1-S277/282D. In cells, RAD51AP1-S277/282A confers no rescue of RAD51AP1 deficiency in toxicity tests and DNA replication assays. In contrast, RAD51AP1-S277/282D fully rescues RAD51AP1 deficiency. We provide evidence that RAD51AP1-S277 is a CDK2 target and propose a model in which RAD51AP1-S277/282 phosphorylation ensures RAD51AP1 flexibility for dynamic engagement in consecutive steps of the HDR reaction. Our results provide new mechanistic insights into RAD51AP1 regulation by a CDK.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41109978 is a review article
Thyroid cancer progression involves cell-state plasticity in the form of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), and defects in DNA damage response (DDR), both of which are linked to metastasis and treatment failure. The role of pituitary tumor transforming 1 interacting protein (PTTG1IP/PBF) in these processes remains insufficiently defined.Transcriptomes from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) (GSE138042) datasets were analyzed to prioritize EMT-associated genes and to assess correlations with EMT regulators, junction markers, and matrix metalloproteinases. PTTG1IP expression was measured by quantitative real-time reverse transcriptase PCR (qRT-PCR) in thyroid cancer cell lines and normal thyroid HTori-3 cells. Cell viability (Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8)) and apoptosis (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling, TUNEL) assays were performed following shRNA knockdown of PTTG1IP. The PTTG1IP-CTTN association was examined by co-immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP)-qPCR was used to investigate PTTG1IP occupancy at DDR gene promoters. Radiosensitivity was evaluated by loss of cell viability, flow-cytometric cell death, and phosphorylated H2AX (p-H2AX) immunofluorescence after irradiation.PTTG1IP emerged as a top EMT-linked candidate across cohorts, with elevated mRNA and protein expression in thyroid cancers and cell lines. Silencing of PTTG1IP reduced viability and increased apoptosis in human thyroid cancer cell lines TPC-1 and KTC-1. PTTG1IP expression aligned with canonical EMT transcription factors and with DDR genes. Biochemically, PTTG1IP formed an endogenous complex with cortactin (CTTN) and co-localized in cancer cells. Mechanistically, PTTG1IP occupied the BRCA1, BRCA2, RAD51, RAD51-associated protein 1 (RAD51AP1), and ATM serine/threonine kinase (ATM) promoters. Functionally, depletion of PTTG1IP led to increased radiation-induced DNA damage and cell death, resulting in a greater post-irradiation loss of viability.PTTG1IP is a multifunctional node in thyroid cancer, coupling cytoskeletal programs with DDR control, and supporting cell growth and treatment tolerance. The targeting of PTTG1IP, particularly to enhance radiosensitivity, may provide a novel therapeutic strategy for thyroid cancer.© 2025 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Homology-directed DNA repair (HDR) is critical for genome stability and tumor suppression. HDR is initiated by the RAD51 single-stranded (ss)DNA nucleoprotein filament which conducts the homology search and invades a homologous DNA template, creating a displacement-loop (D-loop). The RAD51 filament is assisted in these processes by several proteins. One such protein is RAD51-Associated-Protein 1 (RAD51AP1) which binds DNA and RNA and directly interacts with RAD51. Of note, RAD51AP1 overexpression is associated with poor prognosis in several different cancer types. Here, we show that RAD51AP1 activity is regulated by phosphorylation. RAD51AP1 bearing S277/282A mutations is more proficient in the stimulation of D-loop formation than wild type RAD51AP1 or phosphomimetic RAD51AP1-S277/282D. In EMSAs, RAD51AP1 with S277/282A mutations more avidly binds ssDNA, double-stranded (ds)DNA, and the nucleosome core particle than wild type RAD51AP1 or RAD51AP1-S277/282D. In cells, RAD51AP1-S277/282A confers no rescue of RAD51AP1 deficiency in toxicity tests and DNA replication assays. In contrast, RAD51AP1-S277/282D fully rescues RAD51AP1 deficiency. We provide evidence that RAD51AP1-S277 is a CDK2 target and propose a model in which RAD51AP1-S277/282 phosphorylation ensures RAD51AP1 flexibility for dynamic engagement in consecutive steps of the HDR reaction. Our results provide new mechanistic insights into RAD51AP1 regulation by a CDK.
Tetraspanin 7 (TSPAN7) plays a crucial role in cancer progression; however, its correlation with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remains unclear. This study aimed to analyse TSPAN7 expression and prognostic value in PDAC by integrating data from public databases and our PDAC cohort. We evaluated the effect of TSPAN7 on PDAC cell proliferation and apoptosis using cell-based assays and mouse xenograft models. Furthermore, molecular biology techniques, including RNA sequencing and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, were used to explore underlying mechanisms. Notably, TSPAN7 was significantly downregulated in PDAC tissues and was identified as a favourable prognostic biomarker for PDAC patients. Meanwhile, TSPAN7 overexpression inhibited PDAC cell proliferation and promoted apoptosis in vitro. In mice, TSPAN7 decelerated tumour growth and promoted CD8 + T cell infiltration, consequently enhancing the efficacy of immunochemotherapy against PDAC. Mechanistically, TSPAN7 inhibited RAD51-associated protein 1-mediated DNA double-strand break repair, activating the cGAS-STING signalling pathway to induce type I interferon production. Overall, TSPAN7 inhibits PDAC cell growth and enhances the anti-tumour immune response, indicating its potential as a promising therapeutic target for PDAC.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Epidermal growth factor receptor variant III ( EGFRvIII ) mutation is the most prevalent genetic change in glioblastoma. Abnormal DNA damage repair caused by EGFRvIII, which leads to temozolomide (TMZ) resistance, is a major cause of reduced postoperative survival in glioblastoma patients. This study aims to uncover the molecular mechanism of TMZ resistance in EGFRvIII -mutant glioblastoma.We constructed a Clustered regularly interspaced shortpalindromic repeats (CRISPR)/CRISPR-associated (Cas) system 9 library to identify synthetic lethal genes for EGFRvIII -bearing cells. Abnormal epigenetic regulation of the RAD51-associated protein 1 ( RAD51AP1 ) promoter was assessed via chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) and chromatin immunoprecipitation polymerase chain reaction (ChIP-PCR) analyses. In vitro and in vivo experiments were carried out to investigate the role of the RAD51AP1 gene in TMZ resistance in EGFRvIII -bearing glioblastoma.The CRISPR/Cas9 library identified RAD51AP1 , a synthetic lethal gene for EGFRvIII -bearing cells exposed to TMZ. ChIP-seq and ChIP-PCR analyses revealed that acetylated histone H3 lysine 27 (H3K27ac) and SRY-box transcription factor 9 ( SOX9 ) together induced RAD51AP1 transcription in EGFRvIII cells. High expression levels of RAD51AP1 , promoted formation of the RAD51-UAF1 complex to activate homologous recombination and inhibit TMZ-induced DNA damage.The results of this study suggest that aberrant RAD51AP1 expression is a crucial mechanism by which EGFRvIII -mutant glioblastoma resists TMZ chemotherapy, laying the groundwork for future personalized medicine.Copyright © 2025 The Chinese Medical Association, produced by Wolters Kluwer, Inc. under the CC-BY-NC-ND license.
In this study, we aimed to report long-term follow-up of our pediatric and adult patients with DCLRE1C (DNA cross-link repair 1C) hypomorphic mutation who were diagnosed leaky severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID).Eighteen patients (13 children and five adults), aged between 6 and 29 years were included. Clinical and immunological features, including immunoglobulin levels, T and B cells, natural killer cell subsets, regulator T (Treg) cell ratios/markers, and cytokines, were assessed before and after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) and compared with healthy controls.Recurrent infections (78%) and skin manifestations (61%) such as granulomatous skin lesions, warts, and vitiligo were the most common clinical findings. Autoimmune diseases were observed in 33% and malignancy in 17%. Most patients had low serum IgA and B- and T-cell lymphopenia at the first admission. Recent thymic emigrants (RTE), Tnaive, Bnaive, CD56dimCD16+ cell ratios were significantly lower in the patients than in control; however, follicular helper T TFH and Th1 [interferon gamma (IFN-γ)] cell ratios were significantly higher than the control. Although, Treg ratio and its functional receptors tend to be high but not significant. Eleven patients (61.1%) were treated with HSCT. Median follow-up times of transplant patients was 56 (9-67) months.Patients with hypomorphic DCLRE1C mutations may present with variable clinical and laboratory findings at different ages. Our study showed a helper T (Th)1-dominant immune response before and after HSCT. Increased IFN-γ and TFH cells ratio could be a reason of chronic inflammation and autoimmunity developing before and after HSCT. Long-term follow-up of these patients after HSCT will help to better understand the disease and its pathophysiology.© 2024 The Author(s). Pediatric Allergy and Immunology published by European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
RAD51-associated protein 1 (RAD51AP1) is known to promote homologous recombination (HR) repair. However, the precise mechanism of RAD51AP1 in HR repair is unclear. Here, we identify that RAD51AP1 associates with pre-rRNA. Both the N terminus and C terminus of RAD51AP1 recognize pre-rRNA. Pre-rRNA not only colocalizes with RAD51AP1 at double-strand breaks (DSBs) but also facilitates the recruitment of RAD51AP1 to DSBs. Consistently, transient inhibition of pre-rRNA synthesis by RNA polymerase I inhibitor suppresses the recruitment of RAD51AP1 as well as HR repair. Moreover, RAD51AP1 forms liquid-liquid phase separation in the presence of pre-rRNA in vitro, which may be the molecular mechanism of RAD51AP1 foci formation. Taken together, our results demonstrate that pre-rRNA mediates the relocation of RAD51AP1 to DSBs for HR repair.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Radiation therapy (RT) is one of the primary options for clinical cancer therapy, in particular advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). Herein, the crucial role of bromodomain-containing protein 4 (BRD4)-RAD51 associated protein 1 (RAD51AP1) axis in sensitizing RT of HNSCC is revealed. A versatile nanosensitizer (RPB7H) is thus innovatively engineered by integrating a PROteolysis TArgeting Chimeras (PROTAC) prodrug (BPA771) and hafnium dioxide (HfO2) nanoparticles to downregulate BRD4-RAD51AP1 pathway and sensitize HNSCC tumor to RT. Upon intravenous administration, the RPB7H nanoparticles selectively accumulate at the tumor tissue and internalize into tumor cells by recognizing neuropilin-1 overexpressed in the tumor mass. HfO2 nanoparticles enhance RT effectiveness by amplifying X-ray deposition, intensifying DNA damage, and boosting oxidative stress. Meanwhile, BPA771 can be activated by RT-induced H2O2 secretion to degrade BRD4 and inactivate RAD51AP1, thus impeding RT-induced DNA damage repair. This versatile nanosensitizer, combined with X-ray irradiation, effectively regresses HNSCC tumor growth in a mouse model. The findings introduce a PROTAC prodrug-based radiosensitization strategy by targeting the BRD4-RAD51AP1 axis, may offer a promising avenue to augment RT and more effective HNSCC therapy.© 2024 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 37985156 is a review article
Recent clinical success for RNA therapeutics supports the promise of these modalities to unlock additional drug targets with pharmacodynamic responses that are considerably more durable than other drug classes. Metabolic clearance in tissue is a key determinant of dosing requirements and therapeutic durability. To build our understanding of the mechanisms of RNA metabolic clearance, we quantified the catalytic efficiency of 3'- and 5'-exonucleases, and endonucleases in S9 fractions from various rat tissues using novel fluorescent RNA probes. We validated the specificity of these probes using recombinant nucleases and rat liver S9 fractions, demonstrating their ability to accurately report enzyme activity without cross-reactivity between nuclease classes. Key experimental parameters, such as solution pH and enzyme-substrate ratios, were optimized to maximize dynamic range. Profiling nuclease activity across various rat tissues revealed tissue-specific variations, with kidney, muscle, and plasma showing the highest catalytic efficiency for 3' exonuclease, 5' exonuclease, and endonuclease, respectively. Using a model siRNA targeting hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase, comparative degradation studies in rat liver homogenate, liver S9 fractions, and liver tritosomes revealed divergent metabolic profiles; S9 fractions and homogenate processed both double-stranded siRNA and single-stranded antisense RNA to a similar extent, whereas in tritosomes single-stranded RNA was observed to be degraded more rapidly than a double-stranded form. These differences are consistent with distinct nuclease activities in each compartment, reflecting both enzyme identity and relative abundance as revealed by the probe analyses. Collectively, these findings offer critical mechanistic insights into RNA metabolism and establish a robust platform to improve the development and predictability of siRNA therapeutics. SIGNIFICANT STATEMENT: Metabolic clearance of RNA therapeutics is a critical determinant of their pharmacological durability and potency. This work quantitatively describes the activity of 3 major classes of ribonucleases within various tissues and subcellular compartments, revealing specific patterns of RNA metabolism and enable discovery of novel RNA therapeutics with improved pharmacokinetic properties.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Astrocytes critically regulate states of consciousness, yet their molecular profiles across wake, sleep, and general anesthesia remain unclear. This study conducted proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses of rat cortical astrocytes across these states using sevoflurane. Data quality was validated using principal component analysis (PCA) and Pearson correlation coefficient (PCC). Proteomics showed state-specific signatures: sleep and anesthesia shared similar changes (downregulated structural proteins, upregulated membrane transport complexes) but diverged in molecular expression. Anesthesia specifically suggested potential activation of cellular differentiation/structural plasticity-related pathways but implied potential disruption of metabolism and molecular clearance processes compared to sleep. Phosphoproteomics revealed the unique phosphorylation changes during general anesthesia compared to wake and normal sleep: downregulated phosphorylation of nuclear casein kinase and cyclin-dependent kinase substrate 1 (NUCKS1) at Ser188, suggesting the potential suppression of nuclear transcription and/or cell cycle activity, which may act as a potential molecular signature associated with the anesthetic state. Clustering analysis showed that sleep was associated with upregulated mRNA processing, while anesthesia indicated potential enhancement of synaptic signaling and suggested possible suppression of development-related programs. In summary, astrocytes undergo extensive molecular reprogramming during transitions of consciousness; while they share common features in morphological remodeling, sleep and anesthesia differ fundamentally in astrocytic molecular outcomes, offering new insights into astrocytic roles in unconsciousness.
Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a pulmonary disease associated with alterations in gut microbiota. We aimed to identify potential diagnostic genes causally associated with gut microbiota and PAH. Mendelian randomization (MR) was performed to screen gut microbiota causally associated with PAH and to identify gut microbiota-related genes. A regulatory network was constructed to reveal the relationships among genes, gut microbiota and PAH. Diagnostic genes were screened and used to construct a diagnostic model for PAH. Characteristics of immune infiltration and diagnostic gene expression in each cell type were evaluated at the transcriptome and single-cell levels. Family. Porphyromonadaceae and genus. Eubacteriumfissicatena were risk factors for PAH, whereas phylum. Actinobacteria, class. Bacilli, genus. Erysipelatoclostridium, and genus. Ruminococcaceae were protective factors for PAH. The gene-gut microbiota-PAH network showed causal associations among six gut microbiota taxa, 13 PAH-associated genes and PAH. Copper metabolism MURR1 domain (COMMD) containing 10 (COMMD10), FES proto-oncogene, tyrosine kinase (FES), nuclear casein kinase and cyclin-dependent kinase substrate 1 (NUCKS1), solute carrier family 22 member 4 (SLC22A4), and synaptogyrin 1 (SYNGR1) were identified as diagnostic genes, with Area Under Curve (AUC) values ranging from 0.79 to 0.99. The abundances of activated B cells, activated CD8 T cells, eosinophils, mast cells, and T helper cells were increased, whereas the abundances of activated dendritic cells (DCs), gamma delta T cells, MDSCs, macrophages, neutrophils, plasmacytoid DCs, and regulatory T cells were decreased in PAH. NUCKS1 was expressed in each cell type and was lower in T/NK and NK cells. The study deepens the understanding of PAH pathogenesis, and may provide diagnostic targets for PAH.© 2025 The Authors. Pulmonary Circulation published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of the Pulmonary Vascular Research Institute.
Our previous work points out that methionine restriction (MR) treatment inhibits gastric cancer progression. Ferroptosis is a new form of cell death, and induction of ferroptosis has an inhibitory effect on tumors. Silencing of the ferroptosis inhibitory molecule FA complementation group D2 protein (FANCD2) has been reported to inhibit tumor growth. This investigation aims to explore whether MR treatment affects ferroptosis of gastric cancer cells by regulating FANCD2 expression, and thus affects the advancement of gastric cancer. Gastric cancer cells (AGS and HGC27) were cultured in MR condition. For ferroptosis detection, lipid ROS was examined by fluorescent staining; ACSL4 levels were estimated by western blot; malondialdehyde (MDA) and 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (4-HNE) levels were measured via enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Transfection of FANCD2/METTL3 (methyltransferase-like 3) overexpression plasmids was to conduct in gain of function tests. SRAMP analysis was to predict the m6A methylation site of FANCD2, with methylated RNA immunoprecipitation detection of m6A levels of FANCD2 mRNA, and Actinomycin D experiments to evaluate its stability. Gastric cancer cells were administered through tail vein injection into BALB/c mice to conduct transplanted tumor models, and mice were given an MR diet or combined with an injection of oeFANCD2/oeMETTL3 lentivirus. The effect of FANCD2/METTL3 overexpression on tumor volume and ferroptosis was measured. The gastric cancer patient-derived organoids were also cultured and treated with MR, and the diameter was analyzed. MR treatment increased ferroptosis and reduced the volume of tumor tissue. FANCD2 levels were found to change dramatically following MR treatment, and overexpressing FANCD2 inhibited ferroptosis and promoted tumor formation. In addition, MR treatment decreased FANCD2 m6A abundance as well as FANCD2 mRNA stability. Database predictions suggested that METTL3 may be an m6A regulatory molecule influenced by MR, and our results showed that METTL3 was down-regulated under MR conditions, and METTL3 overexpression increased the m6A abundance and stability of FANCD2 mRNA. Further results showed that overexpressing METTL3 reduced ferroptosis-related indexes and increased the tumor volume, inhibiting METTL3 reversed the results. Furthermore, MR reduced the diameter of gastric cancer organoids. MR inhibits FANCD2 m6A levels and FANCD2 stability by inhibiting METTL3 expression, and then promotes ferroptosis in gastric cancer cells.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Bone nonunion is a major complication in fracture treatment. Despite considerable advancements in fracture care, 5-10% of fractures result in nonunion; This demonstrates the requirement for novel molecules to enhance fracture healing. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been increasingly recognized for its role in fracture healing; however, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear. Osteoblast proliferation and migration are critical to this process. The nuclear casein kinase and cyclin-dependent kinase substrate 1 gene (NUCKS1), located on human chromosome 1 at 1q32.1, encodes a 27-kDa nuclear DNA-binding protein, which influences cell proliferation, migration, and apoptosis strongly. Although NUCKS1 is implicated in various diseases, its specific role in fracture healing remains unclear. Here, we explored whether NUCKS1 participates in the BDNF-mediated fracture-healing process.We assessed NUCKS1 expression in MC3T3-E1 cells and callus from closed femoral fracture mice through quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and Western blotting. NUCKS1 inhibition in MC3T3-E1 cells in terms of migration and proliferation changes was evaluated through transwell cell migration and Cell Counting Kit-8 assays. Fracture-healing status in mice was assessed through x-ray and micro-CT imaging 2 weeks after fracture.BDNF promoted NUCKS1 expression in both MC3T3-E1 cells and mouse callus tissues. NUCKS1 inhibition reduced MC3T3-E1 cell proliferation and migration and impaired fracture healing in mice. Finally, suppression of TrkB expression reduces both Akt phosphorylation and NUCKS1 expression, and inhibition of Akt phosphorylation reduces NUCKS1 expression.BDNF may enhance NUCKS1 expression through the TrkB-mediated Akt pathway, promoting osteoblast proliferation and migration and facilitating fracture healing.© 2025. The Author(s).
Sirtuin enzymes are deeply associated with senescence and aging. Sirtuin proteins are tightly regulated, but how their levels are governed during aging and how they elicit tissue-specific cellular changes are unclear. Here, we demonstrate that SIRT7 undergoes proteasomal degradation during senescence via targeting by the E3 ligase TRIP12. We identified the transcription factor nuclear casein kinase and cyclin-dependent kinase substrate 1 (NUCKS1) as an interactor of SIRT7 and found NUCKS1 recruitment onto chromatin during senescence mediated by SIRT7 loss, correlating with increased NUCKS1 acetylation. NUCKS1 depletion delayed senescence, leading to reduced inflammatory gene expression associated with transcription factors RELA and CEBPβ. In Sirt7 knockout and aged mouse livers, NUCKS1 was bound at the promoters and enhancers of age-related genes, and these regulatory regions gained accessibility during aging. Overall, our results uncover NUCKS1 as an interactor of SIRT7 and indicate that proteasomal loss of SIRT7 during senescence and liver aging promotes NUCKS1 acetylation and chromatin binding to induce metabolic and inflammatory genes.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The DNA cross-link repair 1B (DCLRE1B) gene is involved in repairing cross-links between DNA strands, including those associated with Hoyeraal-Hreidarsson syndrome and congenital dyskeratosis. However, its role in tumours is not well understood. DCLRE1B expression profiles were examined in tumour tissues and normal tissues using TCGA, GTEx, and TARGET datasets. Additionally, we performed experiments with clinical melanoma samples to verify DCLRE1B expression patterns. We also performed pancancer analyses to investigate the diverse roles of DCLRE1B in the biological functions of various cancers. DCLRE1B exhibited distinct expression patterns and played crucial prognostic roles in most tumours. In particular, high expression of DCLRE1B in melanoma was significantly correlated with a poor prognosis and increased malignancy. DCLRE1B was also found to be associated with the immune landscape and various immune biomarkers and regulators. Furthermore, our analysis identified potential small molecules that could target DCLRE1B in different cancer types. The DCLRE1B gene may be involved in the development and occurrence of a variety of cancers. Additionally, DCLRE1B affects various tumour types not only by mediating DNA repair but also by shaping the differential immune microenvironment. In conclusion, our research offers fresh perspectives on the diagnosis and treatment of different types of cancers.© 2024. The Author(s).
Sarcopenia, characterized by progressive muscle mass and function loss, particularly affects the elderly, and leads to severe consequences such as falls and mortality. Despite its prevalence, targeted pharmacotherapies for sarcopenia are lacking. Utilizing large-sample genome-wide association studies (GWAS) data is crucial for cost-effective drug discovery.Herein, we conducted four studies to understand the putative causal effects of genetic components on muscle mass and function. Study 1 employed a two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) on 15,944 potential druggable genes, investigating their potential causality with muscle quantity and quality in a European population (N up to 461,089). Study 2 validated MR results through sensitivity analyses and colocalization analyses. Study 3 extended validation across other European cohorts, and study 4 conducted quantitative in vivo verification.MR analysis revealed significant causality between four genes (BLOC-1 related complex subunit 7, BORCS7; peptidase m20 domain containing 1, PM20D1; nuclear casein kinase and cyclin dependent kinase substrate 1, NUCKS1 and ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase complex assembly factor 1, UQCC1) and muscle mass and function (p-values range 5.98 × 10-6 to 9.26 × 10-55). To be specific, BORCS7 and UQCC1 negatively regulated muscle quantity and quality, whereas enhancing PM20D1 and NUCKS1 expression showed promise in promoting muscle mass and function. Causal relationships remained robust across sensitivity analyses, with UQCC1 exhibiting notable colocalization effects (PP·H4 93.4 % to 95.8 %). Further validation and in vivo replication verified the potential causality between these genes and muscle mass as well as function.Our druggable genome-wide MR analysis identifies BORCS7, PM20D1, NUCKS1, and UQCC1 as causally associated with muscle mass and function. These findings offer insights into the genetic basis of sarcopenia, paving the way for these genes to become promising drug targets in mitigating this debilitating condition.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), caused by BCR::ABL1 fusion gene, is known to regulate disease progression by altering the expression of genes. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying these changes are largely unknown. In this study, we identified RNA Exonuclease 5 (REXO5/LOC81691) as a novel gene with elevated mRNA expression levels in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) patients. Additionally, using the REXO5 knockout (KO) K562 cell lines, we revealed a novel role for REXO5 in the DNA damage response (DDR). Compared to wild-type (WT) cells, REXO5 KO cells showed an accumulation of R-loops and increased DNA damage. We demonstrated that REXO5 translocates to sites of DNA damage through its RNA recognition motif (RRM) and selectively binds to R loops. Interestingly, we identified that REXO5 regulates R-loop levels by degrading mRNA within R-loop using its exonuclease domain. REXO5 KO showed ATR-CHK1 activation. Collectively, we demonstrated that REXO5 plays a key role in the physiological control of R-loops using its exonuclease domain. These findings may provide novel insights into how REXO5 expression changes contribute to CML pathogenesis.© 2024. The Author(s).
Both POLG and MGME1 are needed for mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) maintenance in animal cells. POLG, the primary replicative polymerase of the mitochondria, has an exonuclease activity (3'→5') that corrects for the misincorporation of bases. MGME1 serves as an exonuclease (5'→3'), producing ligatable DNA ends. Although both have a critical role in mtDNA replication and elimination of linear fragments, these mechanisms are still not fully understood. Using digital PCR to evaluate and compare mtDNA integrity, we show that Mgme1 knock out (Mgme1 KK) tissue mtDNA is more fragmented than POLG exonuclease-deficient "Mutator" (Polg MM) or WT tissue. In addition, next generation sequencing of mutant hearts showed abundant duplications in/nearby the D-loop region and unique 100 bp duplications evenly spaced throughout the genome only in Mgme1 KK hearts. However, despite these unique mtDNA features at steady-state, we observed a similar delay in the degradation of mtDNA after an induced double strand DNA break in both Mgme1 KK and Polg MM models. Lastly, we characterized double mutant (Polg MM/Mgme1 KK) cells and show that mtDNA cannot be maintained without at least one of these enzymatic activities. We propose a model for the generation of these genomic abnormalities which suggests a role for MGME1 outside of nascent mtDNA end ligation. Our results highlight the role of MGME1 in and outside of the D-loop region during replication, support the involvement of MGME1 in dsDNA degradation, and demonstrate that POLG EXO and MGME1 can partially compensate for each other in maintaining mtDNA.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Elephants exhibit remarkable resistance to cancer, and understanding these mechanisms has focused on their potential applications in cancer prevention and treatment in humans. A genome-wide comparative analysis identified that the accelerated regions in elephants are enriched in Fanconi anemia (FA) complementation group L (FANCL), a ubiquitin E3 ligase that mediates the monoubiquitylation of FANCD2 as an essential step in the FA pathway. The FA pathway plays a crucial role in DNA interstrand crosslink (ICL) repair, contributing substantially to genome stability and cancer resistance. In this study, we investigated the differences in ICL repair via the FA pathway, including the function of FANCL, as well as the DNA damage response to ICLs between elephants and humans. We found that elephant fibroblasts exhibited higher sensitivity to ICL-inducing treatments, such as mitomycin C and trimethylpsoralen plus UVA (PUVA), than human fibroblasts, while showing comparable or reduced sensitivity to other DNA-damaging agents, such as doxorubicin and bleomycin. Functional analyses revealed that elephant and human FANCL performed similarly in mediating FANCD2 monoubiquitylation and cell viability following mitomycin C treatment. Interestingly, elephant fibroblasts exhibited a more potent and prolonged activation of p21 and sustained DNA repair responses, such as FANCD2 monoubiquitylation and increased RAD51expression, following ICL-induced treatments. Moreover, elephant fibroblasts showed significantly greater RAD51 foci formation than human fibroblasts after PUVA treatment, even under comparable levels of DNA damage. These findings suggest that elephants efficiently repair ICLs in growth-arrested cells likely through robust p21 activation. This study provides new insights into the cancer resistance mechanisms of elephants and offers novel approaches for cancer prevention and therapy.Copyright © 2025 Kitano, Zhu, Minami, Orino and Yoshikawa.
Rationale: Clinical observations have suggested an association between alkylating agent-based chemotherapy and pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). The Fanconi anemia (FA) pathway, the principal mechanism for resolving alkylating agent-induced DNA damage, has been implicated in this process. Objectives: To establish the interplay among the FA pathway, DNA damage, and PAH. Methods: A knockout-first mouse model for FA complementation group L (Fanclkf/kf) and an adenovirus-associated virus 9-mediated Fancl overexpression (AAV-Fancl) model were used. Lung specimens, pulmonary arterial endothelial cells from patients with PAH, and primarily cultured pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells (PMVECs) from wild-type and Fanclkf/kf mice were analyzed. Measurements and Main Results: Data analysis on lung single-cell RNA-sequencing datasets revealed significant downregulation of FANCL in endothelial cells from patients with idiopathic PAH, a finding consistently validated in both clinical samples (lung specimens and pulmonary arterial endothelial cells) and the monocrotaline-induced PAH rat model. Notably, Fanclkf/kf mice developed spontaneous PAH and showed heightened susceptibility to alkylating agent (mitomycin C)-induced PAH, characterized by severe DNA damage and apoptosis in PMVECs. These pathological phenotypes were rescued through Fancl gene supplementation via AAV-Fancl or pharmacological intervention with the DNA damage protector amifostine. Mechanistically, transcriptomic profiling combined with functional validation demonstrated a suppressed bone morphogenetic protein signaling coupled with hyperactivated transforming growth factor-β pathways in PMVECs from Fanclkf/kf mice. Importantly, this imbalance was fully restored in PMVECs from AAV-Fancl-treated mice. Conclusions: Deficient Fancl plays a key role to promote PAH, and targeted rescue of Fancl could be a novel effective strategy for the treatment of PAH.
Synovial sarcoma X breakpoint 2 interacting protein (SSX2IP) is expressed in various normal tissues and participates in the progression of human cancers. Nevertheless, the specific functions and underlying molecular mechanisms of SSX2IP in cancer, particularly in breast cancer, remain poorly understood. In this study, we aimed to explore the functional role of SSX2IP in breast cancer. Immunohistochemical staining, quantitative real-time PCR, and western blotting blot analysis were used to assess genes expression levels. By manipulating SSX2IP expression levels and conducting functional assays including Celigo cell counting assay or CCKCCK-8-8 assay, flow cytometry, wound healing assay, and Transwell assay, we explored the impact of SSX2IP on the malignant phenotype of breast cancer cells. Additionally, the in vivo tumor-suppressive ability of SSX2IP was investigated by tumor xenograft experiment. Our results revealed an upregulation of SSX2IP in the breast cancer. Functional assays demonstrated that SSX2IP knockdown inhibited cell proliferation and migration, induced apoptosis in vitro, as well as suppressed the tumor growth in vivo. Conversely, SSX2IP overexpression contributed to the malignant phenotype of breast cancer cells. Co-expression analysis showed that FA Complementation Group I (FANCI) was co-expressed with SSX2IP. Additionally, SSX2IP positively regulated FANCI expression and its interaction was verified by Co-IP.Co-IP. Furthermore, FANCI overexpression partially reversed the effects of SSX2IP knockdown on cell proliferation and metastasis. In summary, our findings revealed that SSX2IP contributes to the progression of breast cancer by regulating FANCI, hinting at its potential as a novel biomarker and therapeutic target for the treatment of breast cancer.© 2024 International Federation for Cell Biology.
Esophageal carcinosarcoma (ECS) is a relatively rare malignancy, accounting for < 1% of all esophageal cancers. Its etiopathogenesis remains unknown. This study analyzed the genomic abnormalities in sarcomatous tumors from two patients undergoing subtotal esophagectomy using whole genome sequencing to elucidate the key characteristics of ECS.We identified TP53 driver mutations, copy number gains in 11q13 (including CCND1), and Apolipoprotein B mRNA editing enzyme catalytic polypeptide (APOBEC) signature enrichment in both ECS patients. Along with common genetic abnormalities, we identified CDKN2A driver mutations in case 1 and RAC1, NOTCH1, and TTC28 as novel fusion gene partners of MECOM in case 2. Notably, we detected germline pathogenic variant in Fanconi anemia (FA) complementation group I (FANCI) and group G (FANCG), which are involved in repairing DNA double-strand breaks by homologous recombination, for the first time, in ECS blood samples. These germline variants were truncating-type, Lys1221fs of FANCI (rs1567179036) for case 1 and Gln365Ter of FANCG (rs121434426) for case 2. We also identified somatic changes in cancer-associated pathways, such as PI3K/Akt/mTOR, cell cycle, and NOTCH signaling pathways, and structural chromosomal defects such as chromosome doubling.Our findings indicate that therapeutic drugs targeting the activation signal or FA pathway might be effective in treating ECS, however, their therapeutic significance should be elucidated in future studies.© 2024. The Author(s).
Bone marrow failure (BMF) includes inherited and acquired BMFs. Acquired BMF can be secondary to various factors, such as autoimmune dysfunction, benzene, drugs, radiation, viral infection and so on. Fanconi anemia (FA) complementation group L (FANCL) is an E3 ubiquitin ligase that participates in the repair of DNA damage. Homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations of FANCL can lead to the onset of FA, which is one of the most common inherited BMFs.Here, we report a case of acquired BMF. This patient had a history of benzene exposure for half a year before the onset of the disease, and presented with progressive pancytopenia, especially the reduction of erythrocytes and megakaryocyte, without malformation. Interestingly, this patient and his brother/father had a heterozygous (non-homozygous/compound heterozygous) mutation (Exon9, c.745C > T, p.H249Y) in the FANCL gene.The patient successfully underwent unrelated and fully compatible umbilical cord blood hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.We report for the first time an acquired BMF case with FANCL gene heterozygous mutation, and the mutation site (Exon9, c.745C > T, p.H249Y) has never been reported. This case suggests that heterozygous mutations in FANCL gene may be associated with increased susceptibility to acquired BMF. Based on current reports and this case, we speculate that heterozygous mutations in the FA complementation gene may exist in a certain proportion of tumor and acquired BMF patients, but have not been detected. We recommend routine screening for FA complementation gene mutations in tumor and acquired BMF patients in clinical practice. If positive results are found, further screening can be conducted on their families.Copyright © 2023 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Hematological traits are important indicators of health status, and they are frequently used as criteria for clinical diagnosis. In humans, the genomic architecture of blood traits has been investigated in depth and thousands of associations with genetic variants have been found. In contrast, the association between marker genotypes and the variation of hematological traits has not been investigated in goats yet. Herewith, we have recorded 12 hematological parameters in 882 Murciano-Granadina goats that were also genotyped with the Goat SNP50 BeadChip (Illumina). Performance of a univariate genome-wide association study (GWAS) made it possible to detect one genomic region on goat chromosome (CHI) 21 (19.2-19.5 Mb) associated, at the genome-wide level of significance, with 4 red blood cell traits. The three markers displaying the highest significances were rs268272996 (CHI21: 19225290 bp), rs268273004 (CHI21: 19565629 bp) and rs268239059 (CHI13: 9615190 bp). Consistently, a multivariate GWAS indicated that the rs268273004 marker on chromosome 21 is associated with seven blood cell traits. Interestingly, this marker maps close to the FA Complementation Group I (FANCI) gene (CHI21: 20021947-20077025 bp), which is functionally related to Fanconi anemia, a syndrome characterized by bone marrow failure, aplastic anemia, and congenital disorders. We have also uncovered additional chromosome-wide significant associations between genetic markers and erythrocyte and leukocyte traits in the univariate GWAS. These findings evidence that the phenotypic variation of hematological traits in goats is regulated, at least to some extent, by polygenic determinants distributed in multiple chromosomes.© 2023 The Authors. Animal Genetics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Stichting International Foundation for Animal Genetics.
Studies have shown that methionine restriction (MR) can inhibit tumor progression, but its mechanism in colon cancer is unknown. Through DESeq2 and Edge analysis of the GSE72131 and GSE103602 datasets, 649 co-upregulated and 532 co-downregulated genes affected by MR were identified, respectively. Enrichment analysis showed that these genes were closely associated with tumor progression. Combined with the differentially expressed genes of colon cancer in The Cancer Genome Atlas database, MR affected 330 dysregulated genes in colon cancer. On this basis, a transcriptional regulatory and competing endogenous RNA network was established and F transcription factor 1 and microRNA 17-92a-1 Cluster Host Gene were identified as a key transcription factor and long non-coding RNA, respectively. In addition, four genes (FA Complementation Group I, Holliday Junction Recognition Protein, Karyopherin Subunit Alpha 2 and Kinesin Family Member 15) were identified by analyzing the relationship between dysregulated genes and overall survival. Finally, western blotting, reverse transcription-quantitative PCR, Transwell and other in vitro experiments verified that MR inhibits HCT116 colon cancer cell proliferation, metastasis and invasion, induces apoptosis and downregulates 6 hub genes. Collectively, the present study identified potential targets for MR to inhibit colon cancer progression and contributed to the clinical application of MR.Copyright: © Zhou et al.
In this study, tumor microarray analysis was used to screen the key messenger RNAs (mRNAs) and microRNAs related to the progression of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD), in order to provide a theoretical basis for early diagnosis, therapeutic targets, and prognosis evaluation of patients with LUAD.The mRNA and miRNA expression datasets came from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) project database. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and microRNAs (DEMs) between LUAD tissues and adjacent lung tissue were obtained using GEO2R. The Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes website was also employed to construct and visualize the interactions of overlapped DEGs. The overall survival of DEMs was investigated using the Kaplan-Meier plotter. The TargetScan website (http://www.targetscan.org/) was used to verify the relationship between FA Complementation Group I (FANCI) and the expression of miRNA-218 (miR-218). The expression of FANCI was verified using the GEO and Human Protein Atlas databases, as well as Real Time Quantitative PCR using our own samples. Next, we analyzed the relationship between the expression of FANCI and the clinicopathological characteristics as well as the prognosis of patients with LUAD. We also explored whether the FANCI was related to immune cell infiltration in LUAD.FANCI was identified as a hub gene and associated with poor OS. We found that miR-218 negatively regulates FANCI mRNA expression. At the mRNA expression and protein level, FANCI was more highly expressed in LUAD tissues. The expression of FANCI in LUAD was related to tumor size (χ2=13.96, P<0.001), lymphatic metastasis (χ2=3.88, P<0.05), distant metastasis (χ2=45.39, P<0.001), and stage (χ2=11.03, P<0.05). In addition, the Cox regression model found that FANCI mRNA expression was an independent predictive factor of patient survival (P<0.05). FANCI expression was both weakly related to B cells and neutrophil infiltration in LUAD.miR-218 may negatively regulate FANCI, and FANCI could promote metastasis via extracellular matrix (ECM) receptor interaction, leading to poor prognosis of LUAD. FANCI may be a key gene to the determine metastasis and poor prognosis in patients with LUAD. Changes in the immune microenvironment may be the mechanism through which FANCI leads to poor prognosis of LUAD.2021 Annals of Translational Medicine. All rights reserved.
To investigate whether mismatch repair deficiency (dMMR) affects treatment outcomes in early-stage high-intermediate risk (HIR) endometrial cancer (EC) patients receiving adjuvant therapy.This retrospective study included patients with 2009 International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics stage I-II EC who underwent complete staging surgery from August 2006 to December 2022 at Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital. HIR stage I EC was defined using PORTEC and GOG-99 criteria. Stage II disease was considered low risk if meeting all criteria: endometrioid histology, grade 1-2, absence of lymphovascular invasion, and no lymph node involvement. Patients received adjuvant external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) or vaginal brachytherapy. Clinicopathological characteristics and 5-year disease-free survival (DFS) were analyzed.Among the 137 included patients with a median follow-up of 55 months, MMR status was available for all cases, and 32.1% were classified as dMMR. In 115 patients receiving adjuvant radiation, dMMR was associated with higher parity (97.6% vs. 71.2%, p=0.001) and showed a trend toward higher ER expression (170.5 vs. 136.7, p=0.126). Five-year DFS was comparable between MMR-proficient (pMMR) and dMMR groups overall (90.3% vs. 88.6%, p=0.881), in radiation-only patients (91.9% vs. 90.2%, p=0.846), and EBRT-only patients (85.4% vs. 85.2%, p=0.908). Cox regression revealed no significant predictors of DFS including MMR status.MMR status did not impact survival outcomes in early-stage HIR EC patients receiving adjuvant therapy, suggesting limited prognostic value and questioning routine MMR testing cost-effectiveness in this subgroup.© 2027. Asian Society of Gynecologic Oncology, Korean Society of Gynecologic Oncology, and Japan Society of Gynecologic Oncology.
Anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) fusions are established oncogenic drivers and therapeutic targets in multiple malignancies, including non-small cell lung cancer but are rare in colorectal cancer (CRC). Although ALK fusions in CRC have been associated with sensitivity to ALK inhibitors, their broader genomic context remains incompletely defined. We aimed to characterize the prevalence, clinicogenomic features, and therapeutic implications of ALK fusions in advanced CRC.Comprehensive genomic profiling using hybrid capture-based next-generation sequencing was performed on 56,206 advanced CRC tumors to identify alterations, including ALK fusions. Microsatellite instability (MSI)/mismatch repair (MMR) status, tumor mutational burden (TMB), genomic ancestry, COSMIC trinucleotide signatures, and homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) signatures were derived from sequencing data. PD-L1 expression was assessed by immunohistochemistry.ALK fusions were identified in 63 tumors (0.1%). Compared with ALK fusion-negative CRC, ALK fusion-positive (ALKfus+) tumors demonstrated enrichment for MSI-high/MMR-deficient status and high TMB, with numerically higher PD-L1 expression. In contrast, canonical CRC driver alterations were markedly depleted, including KRAS, APC, and PIK3CA mutations.ALK fusions define a rare but biologically distinct subset of CRC characterized by frequent MSI-high/MMR-deficient status and a unique genomic landscape. These findings support comprehensive genomic profiling to identify ALK fusions in CRC, which may inform the use of ALK-directed therapies, and highlight the frequent co-occurrence of MSI-high disease within this subgroup.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565209 is a review article
Many tumours show deficiencies in DNA damage response (DDR), not only driving tumorigenesis but also exposing vulnerabilities with therapeutic potential. Assessing which patients might benefit from DDR-targeting therapy requires knowledge of tumour DDR deficiency (DDRd) status, with mutational signatures reportedly better predictors than loss-of-function mutations. Existing DDRd models offer effective prediction for pathways with well-characterized processes and mutational signatures. Nevertheless, development of models for additional DDRd and clinically relevant mechanisms could be hampered by the fact that most mutational signatures have unknown etiology. Using supervised non-negative matrix factorization (SNMF), we integrate mutational signature learning with multiclass DDR-deficiency prediction to enable etiology-guided learning of signatures from cell lines with confirmed gene knockouts. Applied to DDR gene knockout human-induced pluripotent stem cell lines, SNMF identified etiology-aligned representations of deficiency in homologous recombination, mismatch repair, and base excision repair. Even guided by pathway-level labels, SNMF captured gene-specific base excision repair submechanisms, showing the integration offered added granularity. Learned cell line signatures showed high similarity to tumour-derived COSMIC signatures, revealed associations with mutations in DDR genes, and enabled high recall of tumours with DDR deficiencies. We envision that SNMF-like methods could leverage knockout screens to learn etiology-guided signatures for improved DDRd annotation and treatment optimization. SNMF is available at: https://github.com/joanagoncalveslab/SNMF.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Lynch syndrome (LS) is a cancer susceptibility syndrome caused by germline pathogenic variants in DNA mismatch repair (MMR) genes. Due to increased risk of colorectal cancer (CRC), enhanced colonoscopic surveillance is recommended for heterozygote MMR carriers.Using a registry of English patients with LS linked to digital National Health Service records, we aimed to assess adherence of MMR carriers to national surveillance guidelines and to determine the impact of surveillance on CRC incidence and mortality.We described the frequency of colonoscopies in 4732 MMR carriers and used logistic regression to determine predictors of surveillance adherence. For MMR carriers with a record of surveillance and those without, we estimated age-specific annual CRC incidence rates (AS-AIRs) and cumulative lifetime risks; assessed for stage shift by comparing CRC stage distributions and stage-specific AS-AIRs; and estimated risks of death from CRC and any cause using Kaplan-Meier methods and Cox proportional hazards regression.Surveillance at a mean interval of ≤3 years (n=3028) was associated with a decrease in CRC-specific and all-cause mortality, without an associated change in total CRC incidence, even after multivariate adjustment. No strong evidence of stage shift was observed. Colonoscopic surveillance at a mean interval of ≤2 years (n=1569) was associated with an increase in total CRC incidence. Incidence of early-stage cancers was also higher, with no corresponding decrease in late-stage cancers, which may reflect the short follow-up period, spectrum bias, or the impact of overdiagnosis.The observed reduction in all-cause mortality among regularly surveilled MMR carriers may indicate an impact of surveillance on CRC-specific mortality, though in the context of a non-randomised study could also reflect the influence of selection bias.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published by BMJ Group.
Skipped: PubMed ID 10197977 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 11687886 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 16464006 is a review article
Of the five human RecQ family helicases, RecQ4, BLM, and WRN suppress distinct genome instability-linked diseases with severe phenotypes, often with indeterminate etiologies. Here, we functionally define Hrq1, a novel orthologue of RecQ4 from fission yeast. Biochemical analysis of Hrq1 reveals a DEAH box- and ATP-dependent 3'-5' helicase activity on various DNA substrates, including bubbles but not blunt duplexes, characteristic of the RecQ family. Cells lacking Hrq1 suffer spontaneous genomic instability and, consequently, require homologous recombination repair and the DNA damage checkpoint for viability. Hrq1 supports the nucleotide excision repair of DNA damage caused by the chemotherapeutic agent cisplatin and, in certain genetic contexts, UV light. Genetic epistasis analyses reveal that Hrq1 acts parallel to the PCNA/Ubc13/Mms2-dependent postreplication repair (PRR) pathway. Thus, in hrq1Δ cells, lesions are channeled through the PRR pathway, yielding hyper-recombinant and mutator phenotypes; analogous defects may underlie the genetic instability and diseases associated with RecQ4 dysfunction.
