Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a major cause of severe acute lower respiratory tract infections (ALRI), with incomplete elucidation of its pathogenesis and intricate host-virus crosstalk constraining the development of effective therapies. The post-transcriptional interplay among microRNAs (miRNAs), RNA-binding proteins (RBPs), and alternative splicing (AS) is a critical, yet underexplored host response layer.We integrated and analyzed three public datasets (GSE231784, GSE231788, and GSE155151) of RSV-infected A549 cells, screened differentially expressed miRNAs, identified conserved differentially expressed RBPs, used SUVA to detect AS events, and constructed a miRNA-RBP-AS network to find core axis. This integrated bioinformatics approach enabled systematic dissection of multi-layered post-transcriptional regulation during RSV infection.Our analysis revealed that RSV infection substantially alters host post-transcriptional regulation, with 86 conserved differentially expressed RBPs and 94 conserved AS events identified. A potential miRNA-RBP-AS axis was uncovered via regulatory network construction. Crucially, this axis suggests that the downregulation of let-7 family miRNAs (e.g., let-7f-2-3p, let-7a-3p) is strongly associated with the upregulation of the RBP genes SAMD4A and ENOX1. The expression of these RBPs, in turn, correlates with the AS of host genes that are implicated in viral replication and immunity, such as TNIP1 and NR5A2.These findings propose that RSV may exploit this post-transcriptional crosstalk to modulate host immunity and facilitate viral replication. Through bioinformatics analysis, this study provides a novel, system-level map of RSV-host interactions and identifies the let-7-SAMD4A/ENOX1-TNIP1/NR5A2 axis as a promising new target for future antiviral strategies, though this requires further experimental validation.Copyright (c) 2026 Mingzhen Cheng, Hongtao Xu, Fang Yuan, Shuangshuang Li.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains a leading cause of cancer mortality, with its molecular heterogeneity posing a therapeutic challenge. This study investigates the pharmacologically targetable METTL14-mediated pathway in modulating cancer stemness and response to combined radiotherapy and PD-1 blockade. We performed single-cell RNA sequencing and m6A methylation sequencing on matched untreated and radiotherapy/anti-PD-1-treated NSCLC samples. ANALYSIS: of 21,019 cells revealed that combined treatment reduced cancer stem cells (CSCs) and exhausted CD8+ T cells, while increasing naïve CD8+ T cells. m6A sequencing identified METTL14 as a key regulator enhancing Wnt9a mRNA stability via m6A modification. In CSCs, Wnt9a activation stabilizes β-catenin by inhibiting its phosphorylation and degradation, promoting nuclear translocation and transcriptional activity through TCF/LEF, thereby driving malignancy. Pharmacologically, targeting METTL14 disrupts this axis and suppresses CSC stemness. Our findings establish METTL14 as a central pharmacological target whose inhibition suppresses the Wnt9a/β-catenin pathway, enhances radiotherapy and anti-PD-1 efficacy, and reduces CSC-driven progression in NSCLC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Zhigancao Decoction (ZGCT), also known as Fumai Decoction, is a classical traditional Chinese medicine formula recorded in Shanghan Lun and has long been used for the treatment of "palpitations" and "irregular pulse," corresponding to arrhythmias in modern medicine. Although ZGCT has shown beneficial effects against cardiac arrhythmias, its absorbed bioactive constituents and the underlying mechanisms involved in ischemic heart failure (IHF)-related ventricular arrhythmias (VAs) remain unclear.This study aimed to characterize the chemical profile of ZGCT and identify its circulating and cardiac constituents using ultra-performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UPLC-Q-TOF-MS), to identify key pathways through transcriptomic analysis, and evaluate the effects of ZGCT on IHF-related VAs in rats while exploring the potential involvement of myocardial fibrosis and TGF-β/Smad signaling.UPLC-Q-TOF-MS was employed to characterize the chemical constituents of ZGCT extract and to identify its absorbed components in rat serum and myocardial tissue after administration, thereby defining its in vivo bioactive basis. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq)-based transcriptomic profiling was then performed on myocardial tissues from the control, model, and ZGCT-treated groups to identify differentially expressed genes, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses to screen candidate signaling pathways underlying ZGCT activity. In addition, a rat model of IHF was established by permanent ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery. Rats were randomly assigned to the control, model, low-, medium-, and high-dose ZGCT, metoprolol, SB-431542(a selective TGF-β receptor type I inhibitor), and SB-431542 plus ZGCT groups. Cardiac function was evaluated by echocardiography; ventricular arrhythmia susceptibility, conduction velocity, and electrical conduction dispersion were assessed by burst pacing and multichannel electrical mapping; infarct size and myocardial fibrosis were determined by 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC), hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), and Masson's trichrome staining; and the expression of TGF-β1, phosphorylated Smad3 (p-Smad3), Smad7, and matrix metalloproteinase 2 (MMP2) was measured by Western blotting and RT-qPCR.UPLC-Q-TOF-MS identified 113 constituents in the ZGCT extract in vitro, of which 80 were detected in serum and 53 were distributed in myocardial tissue after administration. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that ZGCT predominantly regulated the extracellular matrix (ECM)-receptor interaction and TGF-β signaling pathways, with the TGF-β pathway emerging as a putative key target. In IHF rats, ZGCT significantly improved cardiac function and reduced both the incidence and duration of ventricular arrhythmias. Multichannel electrical mapping further demonstrated that ZGCT reversed IHF-induced slowing of conduction velocity and increased conduction dispersion. Mechanistically, ZGCT downregulated the expression of TGF-β1, p-Smad3, and MMP2, while upregulating Smad7. SB-431542 elicited anti-fibrotic and pathway-related molecular changes comparable to those of ZGCT, further supporting a role for TGF-β/Smad signaling in the anti-fibrotic effects of ZGCT.ZGCT reduced ventricular arrhythmia susceptibility and improved conduction abnormalities in IHF rats in association with attenuation of myocardial fibrosis and modulation of transforming growth factor-β/Smad-related signaling. However, these findings were obtained from a single batch of ZGCT, and further multi-batch validation is required to confirm its chemical consistency and pharmacological reproducibility.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Classic Hodgkin lymphoma (CHL) is a highly curable disease. However, a subset of patients develops relapsed/refractory disease, underscoring the need for predictors of treatment response. Although immune-checkpoint inhibitors have improved outcomes, many patients still experience suboptimal responses. A deeper understanding of the CHL transcriptomic landscape may improve patient stratification and guide treatment approaches. Targeted mRNA-NGS was performed on formalin-fixed paraffine-embedded CHL-tissue using the HTG EdgeSeq Precision Immune-Oncology Panel (1,392 genes) in treatment-naive and post-chemotherapy relapsed treated with nivolumab-based protocols. Differential gene expression and pathway enrichment analyses were conducted to characterize tumor-intrinsic, and microenvironmental features associated with disease biology and treatment response. Across all CHL samples (n = 25) we observed overexpression of immune-checkpoint and immunoregulatory genes (CD274, CTLA-4, IL6, IL13), and markers of macrophage-rich/matrix-remodeling microenvironment (CD163, MMP2, TIMP1), alongside loss of B-cell identity and tumor suppression programs. Pathways analysis revealed activation of IL6/JAK/STAT3, TNF-α/NF-κB, KRAS-UP, and Inflammatory response, with reduced proliferative and metabolic activity. Immunotherapy non-responders, both in the overall (n = 5; 20%), and the treatment-naïve CHL (n = 2; 12%) displayed a proliferative, cytokine-activated, and immunologically cold phenotype. This includes shared overexpression of FADD, NFKB1, and TGFB1 and downregulation of SMAD7, together with activation of E2F, G2M, MYC, and PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathways and negative enrichment of TNF-α/NF-κB, IL6/JAK/STAT3, and Inflammatory response. Post-chemotherapy relapsed (n = 8) exhibited adaptative immunoregulatory and stress response signatures (IL15, TNFSF18, MAPK8, FUT4), along with reduced immune activation and loss of tumor-suppressor signaling. This study highlights the biological complexity and transcriptional diversity underlying CHL and its tumor microenvironment. Immunotherapy non-responders exhibited an "oncogene-driven" transcriptional profile independent of previous treatment status, whereas responders showed an "inflammatory immune-scape" phenotype, offering insight into mechanisms of resistance. Despite the limited sample size, these findings provide a foundation for larger precision-focused studies aimed at improving outcomes in CHL.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
To optimize the extraction-purification process of Dendrobium officinale polysaccharides (DOPs) and characterize the fine structures of two homogeneous fractions (DOP-1, DOP-2), as well as to evaluate their anti-photoaging activity on HFF cells.An integrated process including petroleum ether defatting, cellulase hydrolysis, water extraction-ethanol precipitation, trypsin-Sevag deproteinization, activated carbon decolorization, and dialysis was used. DOP-1 and DOP-2 were separated by DEAE-52 and Sephadex G-100 chromatography. Their structures were analyzed by FT-IR, methylation-GC/MS, NMR, and SEM. Anti-photoaging effects were assessed via CCK-8, SA-β-Gal staining, and qPCR of TGF-β/Smad pathway genes.The optimized process increased crude polysaccharide yield from 30.34% to 35.03% and polysaccharide content from 31.23% to 49.34%. DOP-1 (Mn 989 Da, PDI 1.15) was a linear oligosaccharide composed of →4)-β-D-Manp (72.32%) and →4)-β-D-Glcp (23.78%) in an alternating pattern. DOP-2 (Mn 2970 Da, PDI 1.67) was a branched polysaccharide with a backbone of →6)-α-D-Glcp (58.06%) and branches at →2,6)-Manp and →4,6)-Glcp. Both DOP-1 and DOP-2 (62.5 μg/mL) protected HFF cells from UVA-induced photoaging, upregulated TGF-β1, Smad3, Smad4, and Collagen I, and downregulated Smad7 and MMP-1, with DOP-2 showing dose-dependent effects.The optimized process enables efficient preparation of DOPs. DOP-1 and DOP-2 possess distinct structural features and exert anti-photoaging effects via regulation of the TGF-β/Smad signaling pathway.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common and aggressive primary malignant tumor of the adult central nervous system, with nearly 90% of cases recurring within two years despite standard surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy. Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) play critical roles in GBM recurrence, but their characteristics in recurrent GBM remain insufficiently defined. Krüppel-like factor 10 (KLF10) regulates metabolism, mitochondrial function, proliferation, and apoptosis; however, its role in GBM-associated TAMs remains unclear.Single-cell RNA-sequencing data from 16 GBM samples were analyzed to identify recurrence-associated TAMs. Functional features were assessed using GO, KEGG, and CellChat analyses. Marker genes were used to construct a prognostic signature through LASSO and Cox regression. The association between KLF10 and clinicopathological features was evaluated using TCGA data. A GBM cell-macrophage co-culture system was established to examine KLF10 induction, and KLF10-overexpressing macrophages were used to assess effects on GBM-cell proliferation, migration, and invasion.A five-gene prognostic signature comprising KLF10, ZFAND2A, SMAD7, GPR84, and ARHGAP12 was identified. KLF10 expression was associated with WHO grade, IDH mutation, MGMT promoter methylation, 1p/19q co-deletion, molecular subtype, and overall survival, with high KLF10 predicting poor prognosis. Functional enrichment analyses suggested that KLF10-associated genes were linked to ECM-receptor interaction, cell-cycle-related pathways, and cytokine signaling. In vitro, co-culture with GBM cells upregulated KLF10 expression in THP-1-derived macrophages, and KLF10-overexpressing macrophages were associated with increased GBM-cell proliferation, migration, and invasion.KLF10-high macrophages were associated with GBM progression and may serve as a candidate prognostic marker requiring further validation.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Chen, Fan, Chen, Cao, Hu, Zhou, Xu and Wang.
To investigate the role of histone deacetylase 2 (HDAC2) in cisplatin resistance in ovarian cancer (OC). Cisplatin-resistant OC cell lines were employed to construct HDAC2 overexpression and knockdown models, and their effects on cell proliferation and apoptosis were examined. Chromatin immunoprecipitation, immunoprecipitation, and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed to investigate the regulation of SMAD7 protein stability and promoter activity by HDAC2. Expression of DNA damage repair-related genes was detected by qRT-PCR. A xenograft mouse model was established for in vivo validation. HDAC2 was highly expressed in cisplatin-resistant OC cells. Overexpression of HDAC2 enhanced drug resistance and inhibited apoptosis and DNA damage, whereas knockdown of HDAC2 exhibited the opposite effects. Mechanistically, HDAC2 directly deacetylated the SMAD7 protein to prevent its degradation rather than suppressing its transcription via H3K27 deacetylation. The HDAC2/SMAD7 axis promoted drug resistance by activating the Wnt/β-catenin signalling pathway and modulating DNA damage repair-related genes. In vivo experiments confirmed that HDAC2 knockdown significantly inhibited tumour growth and enhanced the sensitivity. HDAC2 enhances cisplatin resistance in OC by deacetylating and stabilising SMAD7 protein, thereby activating the Wnt/β-catenin signalling pathway and promoting DNA damage repair.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42543772 is a review article
This study aimed to investigate the differences in the ameliorative effects and underlying mechanisms of Buyang Huanwu Decoction(BHD) and its different ethanol elution fractions on pulmonary fibrosis(PF). The content of amygdalin, formononetin, kaempferol, ferulic acid and paeoniflorin in the drug-containing sera of BHD and its different fractions were determined using ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem quadrupole mass spectrometry. A rat model of PF was established by intratracheal instillation of bleomycin(BLM). The rats were divided into seven groups: a control group, a BLM group, a prednisone acetate(PA) group, a BHD group, a 30% ethanol elution fraction(Fr30) group, a 50% ethanol elution fraction(Fr50) group, and a 90% ethanol elution fraction(Fr90) group. All treatments were administered continuously for 21 days. The degrees of lung inflammation and fibrosis were observed by HE and Masson staining. The hydroxyproline(HYP) levels in lung tissue were determined using a HYP assay kit. The levels of interleukin-1β(IL-1β), interleukin-6(IL-6), interleukin-10(IL-10), tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), and high mobility group box 1 protein(HMGB1) in lung tissue were determined using ELISA kits. The levels of total superoxide dismutase(T-SOD), malondialdehyde(MDA) and glutathione peroxidase(GSH-PX) in lung tissue were determined using corresponding commercial kits. Immunofluorescence staining and Western blot were used to detect the levels of epithelial-mesenchymal transition(EMT)-related proteins in lung tissue. RT-qPCR and Western blot were employed to determine the mRNA and protein levels of factors associated with the transforming growth factor-β1(TGF-β1)/Sma and Mad-related protein(Smad) pathway in lung tissue. The results showed that amygdalin was detected in the drug-containing sera of all groups, with the highest content in the Fr30 group and the lowest in the Fr90 group. Formononetin and kaempferol were detected in the BHD, Fr50, and Fr90 groups, with the highest content in the Fr50 group and the lowest in the Fr90 group. Ferulic acid was detected in all groups, with the highest content in the BHD group and the lowest in the Fr30 group. Paeoniflorin was only detected in the BHD and Fr30 groups, with similar content. Compared with the BLM group, the levels of HYP, TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β, HMGB1, and MDA decreased in all treatment groups, while the levels of IL-10, T-SOD, and GSH-PX increased. However, there was no statistical significance in the changes of T-SOD level in the Fr30 group and HYP and IL-10 levels in the Fr90 group compared with the BLM group. Immunofluorescence staining showed a marked decrease in the protein expression of α-smooth muscle actin(α-SMA) in the lung tissue of the BHD, Fr30, Fr50, and Fr90 groups. Western blot analysis showed that the expression of epithelial cadherin(E-cadherin) significantly increased, while α-SMA and vimentin protein expressions significantly decreased in the lung tissue of the BHD, Fr30, Fr50, and Fr90 groups. RT-qPCR and Western blot analysis revealed that the mRNA and protein levels of TGF-β1 in the BHD and Fr30 groups significantly decreased, the phosphorylation(p)-Smad3/Smad3 ratio in all treatment groups significantly decreased, and the mRNA and protein levels of Smad7 in the BHD, Fr30 and Fr50 groups significantly increased. In conclusion, BHD and its different ethanol elution fractions may ameliorate BLM-induced PF in rats by inhibiting the TGF-β1/Smad pathway, with the Fr30 and Fr50 fractions showing better ameliorative effects.
Does NR5A2 (nuclear receptor subfamily 5 group A member 2) play a role in the dysregulation of granulosa cells in polyendocrine metabolic ovarian syndrome (PMOS), which is a common endocrine disorder and a leading cause of anovulatory infertility, and what are its underlying regulatory mechanisms?The mRNA expression levels of NR5A2 and related genes were assessed in human granulosa cells (HGCs) isolated from patients with or without PMOS. To investigate the effects of NR5A2 on inflammation and proliferation of granulosa cells, as well as the underlying molecular mechanisms, in-vitro experiments were conducted using the KGN human granulosa-like cell line.Overexpression of NR5A2 promoted cell proliferation and induced G1-to-S phase transition in KGN cells, at least in part by upregulating cyclin D1 (CCND1) expression. NR5A2 acted as a co-activator of NF-κB p65 (also known as RelA) by increasing its phosphorylation and nuclear localization, thereby increasing CCND1 expression through transcriptional regulation. Furthermore, NR5A2 regulated the IL-1β positive self-regulatory loop via the NF-κB p65 signalling pathway.Up-regulated NR5A2 may contribute to chronic inflammation and aberrant proliferation of granulosa cells by increasing NF-κB p65 activity. These findings highlight NR5A2 as a potential therapeutic target for ameliorating ovarian dysfunction in patients with PMOS.Copyright © 2026 Reproductive Healthcare Ltd. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The potential effect of elevated parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels on nutritional status and sarcopenia in chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients undergoing hemodialysis (HD) has not yet been well established.The aim of this study was to evaluate the status of sarcopenia and nutritional aspects according to PTH levels in HD patients.This cross-sectional study evaluated consecutive patients attending three HD clinics in Northeast Brazil. Patients were stratified based on PTH levels: (1) 0-199 pg/mL, (2) 200-599 pg/mL, and (3) ≥ 600 pg/mL. Group 1 was excluded due to older age, and groups 2 and 3 were matched for age, sex, and presence of diabetes. Sarcopenia was defined according to the European consensus criteria, assessing muscle strength, muscle mass, muscle quality index, and body mass index.A total of 238 individuals were evaluated (119 in each group), with a mean age of 49.3 ± 14.4 years. The prevalence of sarcopenia was 18.5%, and 66.7% exhibited low muscle quality. Underweight was observed in 6.3% of the sample, while 41.4% were overweight. There were no differences in rates of underweight, low muscle mass, low muscle strength, sarcopenia, and low muscle quality according to PTH status (p > 0.05).Patients undergoing HD with moderate to severe hyperparathyroidism (PTH ≥ 600 pg/mL) did not show higher nutritional impairment or sarcopenia compared to patients with PTH levels within the recommended range (200-599 pg/mL).
Cardiovascular diseases remain the leading cause of mortality worldwide. Their increasing prevalence has focused attention on new promising biomarkers such as vascular calcification, although its assessment involves radiation exposure. Thus, this systematic review and meta-analysis aimed to examine the association between arterial stiffness, assessed through pulse wave velocity (PWV) and extracoronary arterial calcification (ECC), in addition to identifying possible factors influencing this relationship. A systematic search was conducted in PubMed, Scopus, and Web of Science according to PRISMA and MOOSE guidelines. Data extraction, quality assessment, and statistical analyses were performed according to predefined criteria. A total of 41 studies with 19 300 participants were included. Higher central PWV was associated with higher presence of ECC in both unadjusted and adjusted models (p-OR = 2.84; 95% CI: 2.25-3.59; and p-OR = 2.27; 95% CI: 1.66-3.11, respectively). Similarly, peripheral PWV was associated with ECC in both unadjusted and adjusted models (p-OR = 3.73; 95% CI: 2.76-5.05; and p-OR = 1.49, 95% CI: 1.26-1.75, respectively), though with considerable heterogeneity. Age, diabetes, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, total cholesterol, pulse pressure, and body mass index were related to p-OR. Publication bias was identified in all models except the adjusted peripheral model. This meta-analysis highlights a significant association between central arterial stiffness and ECC, supporting PWV as a promising noninvasive biomarker. Given the cross-sectional nature of the available evidence and the observed heterogeneity, further prospective studies are needed to confirm these findings, clarify their clinical relevance, standardize measurement methods, and to strengthen the overall evidence base.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Fellowship of Postgraduate Medicine. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564451 is a review article
Population ageing is associated with increasing rates of osteoporosis, frailty, and functional decline. Vitamin D deficiency and disturbances in calcium-parathyroid hormone (PTH) homeostasis are common in older adults and may contribute to bone loss. However, real-world data describing the frequency and skeletal relevance of these endocrine abnormalities in very old hospitalized populations remain limited.We conducted a retrospective cross-sectional study including 1,202 hospitalized patients aged ≥70 years (mean age 85.0 ± 7.1 years) who underwent dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry at a tertiary endocrine and geriatric centre in Germany. Serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D, calcium, parathyroid hormone (PTH), thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), and renal function parameters were extracted from electronic medical records. Hip bone mineral density (BMD) served as the primary skeletal outcome. Multivariable linear regression models were used to assess associations between endocrine parameters and BMD after adjustment for age, sex, body mass index, and living setting.Vitamin D deficiency was highly prevalent in this very old cohort. Vitamin D levels <20 ng/mL were present in 68.6% of participants with available vitamin D measurements, and levels <10 ng/mL in 45.5%. Hypocalcaemia was observed in 39.1% of participants, while elevated PTH levels occurred in 29.9%. The combination of hypocalcaemia and elevated PTH-consistent with secondary hyperparathyroidism-was identified in 13.7% of patients. Participants with elevated PTH had significantly lower hip BMD compared with those without PTH elevation (median -2.3 vs -1.9, p = 0.004). This association remained significant after adjustment for age and sex (β -0.23, 95% CI: -0.45 to -0.01; p = 0.042). In multivariable models, increasing age (β -0.046 per year, 95% CI: -0.063 to -0.029; p < 0.001) and higher PTH levels (β -0.006 per unit, 95% CI: -0.010 to -0.002; p = 0.002) were independently associated with lower hip BMD. In contrast, vitamin D supplementation (β = -0.113, 95% CI -0.493 to 0.266; p = 0.56) and calcium supplementation (β = 0.101, 95% CI -0.556 to 0.758; p = 0.76) were not independently associated with BMD. Living setting was also not independently associated with hip BMD after adjustment (β -0.326, 95% CI: -0.858 to 0.207; p = 0.23). Exploratory analyses suggested a U-shaped relationship between TSH and hip BMD, with both suppressed and elevated TSH levels associated with lower BMD compared with the euthyroid range.Severe vitamin D deficiency is common in very old hospitalized patients and frequently coexists with hypocalcaemia and secondary hyperparathyroidism. Elevated PTH levels are independently associated with lower hip bone mineral density, highlighting the importance of evaluating the calcium-vitamin D-PTH axis. Both suppressed and elevated TSH levels were associated with lower BMD. These findings underscore the need for comprehensive endocrine assessment of bone health in geriatric patients.© 2026. The Author(s).
Post-traumatic headache (PTH) is a frequent early consequence of head traumatic injury, yet emergency departments (EDs) lack practical tools to identify high-risk patients. Whether routinely documented trauma characteristics are associated with immediate PTH beyond established clinical factors remains uncertain.This prospective, multicenter observational study evaluated patients aged ≥ 18 years presenting with head and/or neck trauma to the ED between 2022 and 2025. To adhere strictly to ICHD-3 criteria and prevent severity measurement bias, the primary analysis was restricted exclusively to a homogeneous cohort of 495 patients with mild traumatic head injury (GCS 13-15, no traumatic brain CT abnormalities). The primary outcome was immediate PTH occurring directly following the traumatic event. To prevent overfitting, candidate variables were restricted a priori to 9 core features. We utilized multivariable logistic regression and evaluated internal validity via 500 bootstrap resamples.Immediate PTH occurred in 62.8% of patients with mild head trauma. Prior headache history showed the strongest association with PTH. Several trauma-related characteristics, including posterior, frontal, and temporal impact locations, scalp hematoma, and traffic accident mechanism, were independently associated with higher odds of PTH. Variance Inflation Factor (VIF) confirmed no significant multicollinearity (< 1.85). The parsimonious 9-variable model demonstrated robust discrimination and stability, with an apparent AUC of 0.855 and an optimism-corrected AUC of 0.843.An association model based on 9 routine ED variables identified several clinical and specific trauma features strongly associated with immediate PTH in mild head trauma patients. These findings highlight important early prognostic factors and maintain statistical stability; however, external validation is required before widespread clinical application.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chronic inflammation associated with excess adiposity can compromise bone microstructure, increasing fragility and fracture risk. Thus, developing strategies to improve bone health in adults with obesity (OB) is critical, particularly in premenopausal females, to protect bone before menopause. While acute exercise transiently increases bone turnover, beginning with resorption, dairy products containing bone-supporting nutrients may attenuate the bone resorption phase. This secondary analysis assessed the effects of post-exercise Greek yogurt (GY) consumption versus a carbohydrate pudding (CP) on bone status indicator responses in premenopausal females with OB. Using a randomized crossover design, 20 participants (age: 36±5years; BMI: 38.7±7.6kg/m2) completed high-intensity interval exercise (HIIE; 10x1-min cycling intervals at ≥90%HRmax) followed by consumption of GY (247kcal, 14g carbohydrate, 32g protein, 350mg calcium) or isoenergetic CP (247kcal, 62g carbohydrate, 0g protein, 0mg calcium). Trials were separated by 4 weeks. Blood samples were collected pre-exercise (fasted), immediately post-exercise, 1h and 3h postprandially, and 24h post-exercise. Significant time*trial interactions were observed whereby osteoprotegerin (OPG) and osteocalcin (OC) were higher at 1h (p<0.001) and 3h (p=0.03) postprandially, respectively, and parathyroid hormone (PTH) was lower at both 1h (p<0.001) and 3h postprandially (p=0.001) in GY versus CP. Net incremental area under the curve analysis also revealed a significant elevation in PTH across the CP trial compared to GY. Therefore, GY consumption following HIIE may support a more favourable bone turnover response by attenuating resorption (PTH), maintaining bone formation (OC), and supporting anti-resorptive responses (OPG) compared with CP during the 1-3h postprandial period in premenopausal females with OB.
Biologic prophylaxis is used to prevent postoperative recurrence (POR) of Crohn's disease (CD) in high-risk patients who have undergone ileocolonic resection (ICR). There are limited data to guide clinicians' choice of prophylactic biologic class to prevent POR in patients previously exposed to biologics. We aimed to determine if reutilizing a prophylactic biologic class is associated with lower risk of POR in patients preoperatively exposed to biologics.Adult CD patients who underwent ICR between 2009 and 2020 and were ever preoperatively exposed to biologics were included. Composite POR, including endoscopic (Rutgeerts ≥ i2b) and/or radiographic recurrence, was compared between patients who: received no prophylaxis, reutilized prophylaxis, or received a new class of prophylaxis (≤3 months from ICR) using Kaplan-Meier analysis. A multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression model was utilized to compare the 3 groups along with clinically established risk factors.A total of 635 biologic-exposed patients (≥2 biologics: 46%) who postoperatively received no prophylactic biologic (63.8%), who reutilized prophylactic biologic (30.7%), or who received a new class of prophylactic biologic (5.5%) were included. On multivariable analysis, no biologic prophylaxis was associated with a higher risk of recurrence (adjusted hazard ratio, 1.33; 95% confidence interval, 1.01-1.74; P = .04), and new biologic prophylaxis (adjusted hazard ratio, 1.50; 95% confidence interval, 0.89-2.53; P = .13) was associated with a similar risk of recurrence when compared with reutilization. Recurrence-free survival was similar among the 3 groups (P = .08); however, in patients undergoing their first ICR (P = .026) and in patients previously exposed only to anti-tumor necrosis factor agents (P = .051), the reutilization group demonstrated longer recurrence-free survival.Reutilization of biologic classes can be a valid strategy to prevent postoperative CD recurrence.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Crohn’s & Colitis Foundation.
These guidelines (GLs) aim to improve and standardize the management of post-surgical hypoparathyroidism (hypoPTH) and to ensure that all patients receive the best possible care nationwide.Adults with post-surgical hypoPTH.The GLs do not address individuals under 18 years of age or those with familial, genetic, or autoimmune forms of hypoPTH. Patients with advanced renal failure are also excluded.Direct costs and resource utilization were evaluated over time to implement appropriate management within the National Health Service. Recommendations were formulated based on an analysis of literature evidence according to the GRADE methodology. Patient preferences were collected and verified through targeted bibliographic research and the active participation of two patients within the GLs' development group.The present GLs provide four formal graded recommendations and 34 ungraded good clinical practice indications. A high level of agreement was consistently achieved among panel members.These GLs provide operational recommendations-based on the best available evidence -for the treatment of adult patients with post-surgical hypoPTH. The expected benefits of disseminating and implementing these GLs include improved quality of care, national standardization, and the rationalization of healthcare expenditure, while respecting patient preferences.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Italian Society of Endocrinology (SIE).
Bone status indices (BSIs) are increasingly used in metabolic bone disease, yet global laboratory practices remain poorly characterized. Building on recent IOF-IFCC nomenclature and ESCEO-IOF-IFCC recommendations, we conducted an international descriptive survey of BSI practices.A cross-sectional web-based questionnaire was distributed to laboratory professionals through IFCC and IOF networks, email invitations, and professional networks. It covered assay availability, specimen type, analytical platforms, external quality assessment (EQA), reference intervals or clinical decision thresholds, reporting units, interpretation, and reimbursement. Data were analyzed descriptively after duplicate screening, consistency review, and unit standardization.We received 231 responses, including 225 with geographic information from 41 countries across six continents. Marked heterogeneity was observed in analytical platforms, specimen types, reporting units, reference intervals or decision thresholds, EQA participation, and reimbursement. Reference intervals varied considerably, even among laboratories using the same manufacturer and instrument. EQA participation was high for total alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and parathyroid hormone (PTH), but lower for β-isomerized C-terminal telopeptide of type I collagen (β-CTX-I) and procollagen type I N-propeptide (PINP). Adoption of β-CTX-I and PINP was incomplete, although higher among laboratories following osteoporosis patients. Access to bone-specific ALP and tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase 5b remained limited. PTH testing was poorly harmonized because second- and third-generation assays were used in parallel. Vitamin D decision thresholds varied widely, and misordering of 1,25(OH)2D instead of 25(OH)D was frequently perceived.Global BSI laboratory practice remains highly heterogeneous. Harmonized units, intervals or decision thresholds, interpretative practices, EQA participation, assay access, and clinician education are needed.© 2026 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.
Post-traumatic headache (PTH) is prevalent following concussion, yet few evidence-based treatments exist. Intranasal lidocaine (INL) may help treat migraine; however, it has not been studied specifically for PTH in youth populations. The objectives are to describe the feasibility and acceptability of INL as a PTH treatment for youth in a concussion clinic, explore the change in pain score pre- and post-treatment, and describe patient characteristics and clinical covariates associated with the change in pain score. This feasibility study is a health record review of a concussion clinic in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. Patients aged 13-30 years presenting with PTH were eligible. Clinicians completed standardized questionnaires that captured patient-reported outcomes. Feasibility was measured by the proportion of patients who accepted INL treatment and acceptability was determined by patient-reported side effects, tolerability, and satisfaction. Proportions with 95% confidence intervals were generated with a Wilson score. Pain scores were reported using the numeric rating scale, where a ≥ 2-point change is clinically significant. The difference in pain after INL was determined using the median and interquartile range. Seventy-seven patients were offered INL, and 57 patients (61% female, median age = 18 years [interquartile range {IQR}:15, 26]) accepted treatment (74%, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 63-83%). The median reported pre-treatment headache pain score was 5 (IQR: 5.0, 6.0) and post-INL pain score was 2 (IQR: 1.0-3.0), reflecting a median reduction from baseline of 3 points (IQR: -5.0, -2.0). No serious adverse events occurred. Mild side effects including throat irritation, numbness, or unpleasant taste were reported by 96% of patients (55/57). Participants reported that the procedure was tolerable (98%, 56/57) and expressed satisfaction (93%, 53/57). Post-INL, 88% (N = 50/57; 95% CI: 77-94) had a headache pain severity reduction of ≥2 points. INL for PTH is feasible in the outpatient setting and is well tolerated, with preliminary evidence of a clinically meaningful and immediate reduction in headache pain severity. Controlled trials are needed to determine INL efficacy for PTH.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Mary Ann Liebert (NY), LLC.
The development of the dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus is protracted over time in comparison with other brain regions such as hippocampal cornus ammoni or neocortex, extending over the first postnatal weeks. During DG postnatal development, neural stem cells (NSCs) will remain to generate the adult neurogenic niche that will sustain granule neuron (GN) production throughout life. NSCs in the DG divide to generate intermediate progenitor cells (IPCs), whose highly regulated dynamics of self-renewal or cell cycle exit decisions still remain poorly understood. Sox5 is a transcription factor (TF) essential for the establishment of adult NSCs, however, its potential role in Sox5 expressing IPCs during DG development remains unexplored. In this study, we demonstrate that conditional loss of Sox5 during embryonic development leads to critical alterations in cell proliferation and survival in IPCs. Specifically, following Sox5 loss, IPCs exhibit a shortening of S-phase duration in late postnatal and juvenile adult stages. Furthermore, these alterations in IPC cell cycle dynamics could be behind the defects in GN differentiation observed in Sox5-defective mice that ultimately leads to subtle morphological changes in DG architecture. Finally, we demonstrate that the additional loss of one Sox6 copy, a closely related TF to Sox5, lead to more profound disruptions in DG morphology than the one observed upon Sox5 loss. Overall, these findings point to a prominent role for Sox5 in combination with Sox6 in IPC cell cycle progression and GN maturation during postnatal DG development.Copyright © 2026 Tirado-Melendro, Li, Medina-Menéndez, Jurado-Angulo, Rodríguez-Martín, García-Redondo, Bilińska and Morales.
Hepatomegaly in hemolytic disorders, including in thalassemia, is a common complication, primarily due to hemosiderosis and activation of extramedullary hematopoiesis. Globin chain imbalance leads to chronic hemolysis and ineffective erythropoiesis, which are associated with suppression of hepcidin expression. Reduced hepcidin levels may increase iron absorption and accumulation, contributing to oxidative stress and liver tissue damage. Iron chelation therapy, such as deferipron, is effective but has side effects, so safer alternatives are needed. Sappanwood (Caesalpinia sappan L.) contains the active compound brazilin, which chelates iron and exhibits antioxidant activity, potentially reducing oxidative stress, improving iron metabolism disorders, and reducing hepatomegaly. This study aims to evaluate the potential of sappanwood extract as a natural iron chelator and antioxidant.This experimental study used male Wistar rats (180-250 g) with a model of iron overload hemolytic anemia, which were divided into normal controls, negative controls (phenylhydrazine 40 mg/kg BW), positive controls (deferiprone 75 mg/kg BW), and sappanwood extract (SWE) treatment (50, 100, 200 mg/kg BW) for 14 days. The parameters measured included iron metabolism, hepatomegaly, liver function, hepcidin-related gene expression, and oxidative stress. Data were analyzed using ANOVA, with p < 0.05 considered significant.The results showed that administration of 100 mg/kg BW SWE provided optimal improvement (p < 0.05), including reductions in hepatomegaly, SGPT, hemosiderin, lipid peroxidation, bilirubin, extramedullary hematopoiesis, and modulation in iron-related gene expression, including Hamp, Bmp6, Epo, and Ftl.These findings confirm the potential of sappanwood as a potential therapeutic candidate for the management of iron overload in thalassemia.© 2026 The Author(s). Animal Models and Experimental Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of The Chinese Association for Laboratory Animal Sciences.
Ischemic tissue perfusion remains a major clinical challenge despite VEGF's central role in angiogenesis. Limited success of VEGF-based therapies underscores the need to understand endothelial heterogeneity, as distinct subsets exhibit differential responsiveness. This study explores conserved endothelial states that govern VEGF-driven angiogenesis across human organs and evaluates their functional significance.We performed single-cell and single-nucleus RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq/snRNA-seq) analysis of endothelial cells (ECs) from eight human tissues using GTEx data, validated findings in independent skin and heart datasets, and conducted CRISPR-mediated PLCγ2 knockout in cultured ECs followed by scRNA-seq.Analysis of 209,126 nuclei revealed a universal arterial-like endothelial subset (cluster 2) enriched across all organs, characterized by high expression of PLCγ2, a critical VEGF signaling effector. PLCγ2high cells exhibited robust angiogenic and lymphangiogenic programs, including upregulation of VEGFC, NOTCH4, and JAG1, and enrichment of pathways for vasculature development and endothelial differentiation. Cell-cell communication analysis demonstrated exclusive BMP6, IGF2, and CXCL12 signaling from PLCγ2high cells to fibroblasts, pericytes, and immune cells, positioning this subset as a central angiogenic hub. Functional validation showed that PLCγ2 knockout depleted PLCγ2high clusters, suppressed VEGF signaling, and diminished BMP6 ligand secretion, confirming its role in maintaining proangiogenic endothelial states.Ineffective targeting of the appropriate EC state may limit current therapeutic VEGF strategies, positioning PLCγ2high ECs as a clinically relevant target.We identify PLCγ2high arterial ECs as a conserved pan-organ population critical for VEGF responsiveness and vascular regeneration. These findings reimagine VEGF therapy by highlighting PLCγ2 as a critical regulator of a proangiogenic arterial-like endothelial state and a promising combinatorial target to overcome limitations of current angiogenic strategies.
Gastric cancer (GC) derives limited benefit from immune checkpoint blockade (ICB), in part due to stromal-mediated immune suppression. To investigate the underlying mechanisms, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing on 14 GC specimens from patients treated with neoadjuvant ICB. We identified a distinct subset of TRPA1+ cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) maintained by tumor-derived midkine (MDK) through LEF1-dependent transcription under ICB pressure. These TRPA1+ CAFs drive immunosuppression by secreting WNT5A, which polarizes SPP1+ macrophages and subsequently promotes the accumulation of CD25 + FOXP3+ regulatory T cells (Tregs) in the tumor microenvironment. Disrupting this stromal-myeloid-lymphoid axis via WNT5A inhibition or SPP1+ macrophage depletion reduced Treg infiltration and enhanced the antitumor efficacy of anti-PD-L1 therapy in vivo. Our study unveils an MDK-TRPA1 + CAF-mediated mechanism of ICB resistance in GC and highlights the WNT5A-SPP1+ macrophage pathway as a promising target to overcome immunotherapy resistance.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
[This retracts the article DOI: 10.1016/j.omtn.2017.12.001.].© 2026 The Author(s).
Stem-cell-based cardiac repair holds promise for the infarcted myocardium, yet the in vivo molecular behavior of transplanted cells is poorly understood. Using time series spatial transcriptomics, we profiled human pluripotent stem-cell-derived cardiovascular progenitors engrafted into a pig model. We show that the engrafted cardiovascular progenitors progressively upregulated genes associated with cardiac maturation, oxidative metabolism, calcium handling and fibrosis resolution. Cell-cell communication analysis identified Midkine (MDK), secreted by the human xenograft, as a key regulator of host neovascularization. We validated this using immunohistochemistry, lentiviral MDK overexpression and functional assays that demonstrated enhanced endothelial cell migration and increased CD31+ vascular density in vivo. A publicly available interactive Shiny atlas of spatial and temporal transcriptomic data from myocardial infarction pig hearts with human xenografts is provided. These findings advance mechanistic understanding of stem-cell-mediated cardiac repair and identify MDK as a tractable target for therapeutic angiogenesis in ischemic heart disease.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Litter size is a key trait for evaluating reproductive performance of goats, which can directly influence the breeding efficiency and profitability of production cycles. However, a comprehensive understanding of its genetic architecture, including the causative mutations and their functional impacts, remains scarce, thus hindering its application in precision breed-ing.A total of 92 female Leizhou goats were genotyped through whole-genome se-quencing (WGS), and their litter size were measured for three consecutive births. Subsequently, based on the genotype and phenotype data, population genetic structure analysis, selection signature analysis, and genome-wide association study (GWAS) were performed.We identified a total of 20,802,514 SNPs in the 92 Leizhou goats. Analysis of genetic structure revealed that the high-litter-size group exhibited greater genetic diversity than the low-litter-size group, although no significant genetic differentiation was detected between them. We identified 340 putative selective regions and 346 candidate genes across the genome. A total of 37 candidate genes were identified as being closely associated with reproductive traits, including BMP6, MAPK8, RPTOR, etc. In GWAS results, we identified 63 quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for litter size at suggestive significance (P＜1×10-5). After, 207 candidate genes were annotated, and 4 of them were highlighted that have been previously reported to be associated with reproductive processes (e.g., TMEM100, PDGFD, NLRP9, and ARHGAP22). By integrating the results from both approaches, we identified MAPK8 as a potential candidate gene associated with litter size. Furthermore, our findings from motif recognition, transcrip-tion factor prediction, and previous studies lead us to propose that the BMP6-GATA4-MAPK8 signaling pathway may play a key role in regulating litter size in goats.Our findings identify several candidate genes and putative associated variants for litter size, providing valuable insights into the genetic basis of reproductive traits in goats.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) features a fibrotic stroma dominated by cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), yet the functional heterogeneity of CAFs and their crosstalk with malignant cells in metastasis and immune evasion remain unclear.We performed an integrated analysis of single‑cell RNA‑seq data and spatial transcriptomics of PDAC. Pseudotime trajectory reconstruction, regulon activity inference, and ligand-receptor interaction mapping were applied to dissect fibroblast heterogeneity and stromal-epithelial crosstalk. Bulk transcriptomic data from multiple independent cohorts were used to evaluate prognostic and immunotherapeutic implications.We identified nine CAF subsets, including a THBS2⁺ ECM‑remodeling population enriched in liver metastases. Spatial transcriptomics localized these THBS2⁺ CAFs to dense stromal regions surrounding malignant ducts, where they established an immune‑excluded microenvironment correlated with T‑cell exclusion and immunotherapy resistance. Pseudotime analysis revealed PRRX2 as a master regulator driving this CAF subset. Epithelial sub-clustering uncovered KRT17⁺ malignant cells (a transcriptionally distinct epithelial subpopulation associated with EMT and metastasis) that co-enriched with THBS2⁺ CAFs in metastatic sites. Ligand-receptor analysis showed that THBS2⁺ CAFs are computationally predicted to signal to KRT17⁺ cells via the THBS2-SDC4 axis, while malignant cells reciprocally activate CAFs through MDK-LRP1 and SPP1-integrin pathways. Co‑infiltration of both populations strongly predicted poor prognosis and resistance to anti‑PD‑L1 therapy across multiple cohorts.The THBS2⁺ CAF-KRT17⁺ malignant cell axis drives metastatic progression and immune exclusion in PDAC via THBS2-SDC4 signaling, representing a promising prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Chemotherapy resistance in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) remains a critical clinical challenge, with a substantial proportion of patients failing to achieve pathological complete response following neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC). Using an integrative single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), bulk transcriptomic, and spatial proteomic framework, we aimed to identify the malignant epithelial subset driving this resistance and the intercellular signaling axes through which it reprograms the tumor microenvironment (TME). scRNA-seq analysis of NAC-treated breast tumors revealed a Fatty Acid-EMT co-expressing epithelial subset (FA-EMT) that is selectively enriched in the chemotherapy-resistant residuum. Critically, FA-EMT co-expression-rather than either program individually-most powerfully predicted chemotherapy resistance and reduced overall survival across two independent bulk transcriptomic cohorts comprising 277 TNBC patients (p < 0.001). CellChat ligand-receptor analysis established FA-EMT cells as the dominant TME signaling hub, deploying MDK-NCL and MIF-CD74-CXCR4 axes to simultaneously suppress adaptive and innate anti-tumor immunity via T-cell exhaustion, Treg activation, and the expansion of myeloid-derived suppressor cells. Spatial CyCIF validation in a published paclitaxel-resistant TNBC mouse model (n = 69 cores) confirmed significant Metabolic-EMT enrichment in resistant tumor cores (p = 0.0085) with physical co-localization with immunosuppressive MDSC and Treg populations. These findings establish the FA-EMT subset as a key cellular driver of treatment failure in TNBC and nominate MDK-NCL and MIF-CD74-CXCR4 as mechanistically grounded therapeutic targets with the potential to dismantle the FA-EMT-driven immunosuppressive niche and sensitize chemotherapy-resistant TNBC to cytotoxic treatment.
Hexi cattle are a local cattle population endemic to the Hexi Corridor in Gansu Province, China, and exhibit strong adaptability to the region's arid continental environment. However, comprehensive genomic investigations of this population are still lacking. In the present study, we integrated population genomic analyses with a genome-wide association study (GWAS) to dissect the genetic architecture of Hexi cattle. Whole-genome resequencing data were generated for 264 Hexi cattle, and public genomic datasets from six representative cattle breeds were obtained from the NCBI database for comparative analysis. Multiple analytical approaches-including principal component analysis (PCA), linkage disequilibrium (LD) decay analysis, neighbor-joining (NJ) phylogenetic tree construction, and ADMIXTURE analysis-were adopted to evaluate population structure and evolutionary relationships. A mixed linear model was then used to identify significant SNPs associated with five major body conformation traits in six-month-old cattle: body weight (BW), withers height (WH), hip height (HH), heart girth (HG), and abdominal girth (AG). Our results confirm the admixed nature of Hexi cattle, whose genome is derived primarily from Simmental cattle and secondarily from Mongolian cattle. A total of 69 trait-associated significant SNPs were identified and functionally annotated. Specifically, TBC1D31, DERL1 and MCPH1 were linked to BW; FSCN3 and PLBD1 to WH; MCPH1 to HH; NPAS3, TBC1D31, DERL1 and MCPH1 to HG; and SOX5, NTAQ1, FAM83A, TBC1D31, DERL1, CDH11, CPLX4 and ADAM18 to AG. This study deepens our understanding of the genetic basis of growth traits in Hexi cattle and offers valuable molecular resources for future selective breeding, genetic improvement, and long-term conservation of this indigenous cattle population.
Gastric adenocarcinoma (GAC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality, particularly in patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis, for whom effective therapies are limited. We investigated the therapeutic efficacy and molecular mechanism of CYD-4-61, a BAX activator, using human GAC cell lines, patient-derived xenograft models, genetically engineered mouse models, and a syngeneic mouse model. CYD-4-61 potently inhibited tumor cell proliferation, induced apoptosis, and suppressed cancer stem cell-like properties, with enhanced activity in radiation-resistant GAC cells. Mechanistically, CYD-4-61 activated the BAX-caspase pathway, leading to SOX9 protein reduction. Integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic analyses identified SOX9-dependent transcriptional programs as major targets of CYD-4-61. Functional rescue experiments together with chromatin immunoprecipitation and CUT&RUN analyses supported CDK4 as a SOX9-regulated gene and demonstrated suppression of the SOX9-CDK4 regulatory axis following CYD-4-61 treatment. In multiple preclinical models, CYD-4-61 significantly inhibited tumor growth and improved the therapeutic response to anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) therapy while modulating the tumor immune microenvironment. Clinically, co-expression of SOX9 and CDK4 was associated with diffuse-type GAC and poor patient outcomes. These findings identify the BAX-SOX9-CDK4 axis as an important mechanism contributing to the antitumor activity of CYD-4-61 and provide a strong preclinical rationale for its further development as a therapeutic strategy for aggressive GAC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
To evaluate the effects of melatonin on chondrogenic and osteogenic differentiation, chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation, and inflammatory responses in equine mesenchymal stem cells (eMSCs) in vitro.This in vitro experimental study was conducted from October 2023 through June 2024. The eMSCs were cultured under chondrogenic, osteogenic, and chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation conditions with or without melatonin and exposed to proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1β and tumor necrosis factor-α [TNF-α]). Expression of chondrogenic and osteogenic markers was measured by quantitative reverse-transcription PCR. Concentrations of IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-8 in culture supernatants were quantified by multiplex immunoassay.In chondrogenic cultures, melatonin was associated with increased collagen type II (COLII) and sex-determining region Y-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9) expression and was associated with higher COLII-to-collagen type I (COLI) and SOX9-to-runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) ratios, consistent with preservation of chondrogenic phenotype. During chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation, melatonin increased RUNX2 and ALP expression and decreased COLII:COLI and SOX9:RUNX2 ratios, suggesting promotion of an early osteogenic or hypertrophic shift. In contrast, in osteogenic cultures, melatonin decreased RUNX2, ALP, and COLI expression, indicating context-dependent effects on osteogenic differentiation. Across culture conditions, melatonin significantly reduced IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-8 concentrations in culture supernatants.Melatonin differentially modulated lineage behavior in eMSCs, preserving chondrogenic characteristics in some settings, promoting early osteogenic transition during transdifferentiation, and suppressing proinflammatory mediator production.These findings support further investigation of melatonin as a potential adjunct for modulating proinflammatory responses during equine cartilage repair and other inflammatory musculoskeletal disorders.
This study aimed to identify a candidate immune-related biomarker for lumbar disc herniation (LDH) and examine the functional relevance of ARG1 in intervertebral disc degeneration. Bioinformatics analysis was performed using the GSE146904 transcriptomic dataset to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and determine the core target. A puncture-induced rat disc degeneration model was then established, followed by in vivo ARG1 gain- and loss-of-function interventions. In vitro assays were used to evaluate the effects of ARG1 on chondrocyte biological behavior, extracellular matrix metabolism, inflammatory responses, and arginine metabolism. In addition, 57 patients with LDH and 68 healthy controls were retrospectively enrolled to assess the diagnostic value of serum ARG1. After multidimensional screening of the high-effect candidate DEGs, ARG1 was the only gene that met the prespecified immune-process, immune-pathway, and skeletal-system annotation criteria and was therefore prioritized for experimental validation. ARG1 was expressed at a low level in degenerated intervertebral disc tissues. ARG1 up-regulation attenuated puncture-induced disc injury and pain sensitization, promoted chondrocyte proliferation, inhibited apoptosis, increased SOX9 and COL2A1 expression, and reduced MMP13 and ADAMTS5 expression. Clinical testing showed that serum ARG1 levels were reduced in patients with LDH and were negatively correlated with Pfirrmann grade and VAS pain score. The area under the curve of serum ARG1 for distinguishing patients with LDH from healthy controls was 0.818. ARG1 was associated with attenuation of puncture-induced disc injury and early degenerative changes and may serve as a candidate auxiliary serum biomarker for LDH assessment and a potential target for future studies of immune-metabolic regulation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564203 is a review article
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is heterogeneous, and hepatocyte plasticity is linked to poorer patient outcomes. A subset of human HCC harboring Tuberous Sclerosis Complex 1 (TSC1) mutations exhibits more aggressive behavior. TFEB is a master regulator of lysosomal biogenesis and cell fate. We analyzed human normal and HCC tissue arrays for TFEB and CK19 expression, as well as bulk and single-cell RNA-seq datasets from mouse and human HCC, to define TFEB-associated transcriptional programs. We performed biochemical, histological, metabolomic, and transcriptomic analyses in liver-specific Tsc1 knockout (L-Tsc1 KO) and L-Tsc1,Tfeb double KO (DKO) mice. Loss of hepatic Tsc1 led to increased phosphorylation of S6 and 4EBP1, with paradoxical increases in TFEB nuclear translocation and activation. L-Tsc1 KO mice showed increased hepatocyte plasticity, decreased HFN4α, increased YAP1 activation, and spontaneous HCC with increased SOX9 and CK19-positive biliary epithelial cell (BEC)-like cells at 8-12 months. Deletion of Tfeb dampened hepatic metabolic reprogramming and hepatocyte fate changes and inhibited tumor progression in L-Tsc1 KO mice. Increased TFEB activity was associated with increased YAP and SOX9 gene expression and high-grade malignant HCC in humans. These findings indicate that loss of hepatic TSC1 leads to non-canonical TFEB activation, promoting hepatocyte plasticity and tumor heterogeneity associated with high-grade malignancy in both mouse and human HCC. .
Kashin-Beck disease (KBD) is an endemic osteochondropathy caused by T-2 toxin, however, the molecular mechanism underlying T-2 toxin-induced chondrocyte damage remains unclear. This study aimed to elucidate the pathogenic role of T-2 toxin in KBD and develop an EMF-augmented nanotherapy for KBD-related cartilage damage.This study investigated T-2 toxin-induced chondrocyte damage by evaluating protein acetylation, primary cilia integrity and the levels of chondrogenic markers (Sox9, Col2a1). In vitro experiments were performed via pharmacological and genetic SIRT3 inhibition. To protect chondrocytes, si-SIRT3@SPIONs were fabricated, and EMF was applied to improve cell transfection and silencing efficiency. A KBD model in SD rats was used to validate the in vivo therapeutic effect; immunohistochemical staining and micro-CT scanning and reconstruction were performed to comprehensively evaluate in vivo treatment efficacy.Pathological SIRT3 overexpression induced by T-2 toxin disrupted chondrocyte protein acetylation, impaired primary cilia integrity, and suppressed the gene expression of chondrogenic markers. SIRT3 inhibition efficiently protected T-2 toxin-induced chondrocyte cytotoxicity in vitro. Furthermore, EMF-augmented si-SIRT3@SPIONs treatment ameliorated cartilage damage, preserved matrix composition and restored normal chondrocyte phenotype in KBD model rats.T-2 toxin induces chondrocyte injury and promotes KBD progression mainly by disrupting primary cilia integrity and protein acetylation, with SIRT3 overexpression acting as a mediating factor. The EMF-augmented si-SIRT3@SPIONs therapy can effectively protect T-2 toxin-induced primary cilia damage and cartilage degeneration, thus providing a promising therapeutic modality for KBD.© The author(s).
Hedgehog (HH) signaling plays a complex role in epithelial-stromal interactions, but its effects on gastrointestinal stem cells mediated by heterogeneous stromal cell populations remain incompletely defined. Here, we investigate how stromal HH signaling regulates gastric stem cells and tumorigenesis in a segment-specific manner.We genetically activated HH signaling in distinct stromal cell lineages using Col1a2-, Pdgfra-, Gli1-, Acta2-, and Prrx1-CreERT mouse lines, combined with lineage tracing, RNA-seq, ChIP-qPCR, and pharmacological interventions. Human gastric cancer data from TCGA were also analyzed.We show that genetic activation of HH signaling in stromal cells marked by Col1a2, Pdgfra, or Gli1, but not by Acta2, induces tumorigenesis in the stomach and gastroesophageal junction, but not in small or large intestine. HH signaling increases the expression of multiple BMP antagonists in gastric but not colonic stromal cells, via Gli1-mediated transcription. These BMP antagonists in turn activate Wnt/β-catenin signaling in gastric stem cells, driving their proliferation and initiating gastric cancer expressing CD44 and Sox9, but not Lgr5. Activating BMP or inhibiting Wnt signaling blocks tumor initiation. TCGA patient data analysis reveals elevated HH signaling in gastric cancers, which correlates with suppressed BMP signaling.These findings uncover a gastrointestinal segment-specific oncogenic role for HH signaling in Col1a2+Acta2- stromal cells, mediated through the BMP-Wnt/β-catenin axis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) senescence contributes importantly to atherosclerotic plaque progression, yet the upstream mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Here, by integrating single-cell RNA sequencing analysis with human plaque validation, we found that TGFBR1 is enriched in senescent VSMCs in atherosclerotic lesions and correlates with senescence-associated markers. In vivo, VSMC-specific TGFBR1 knockin in Apoe-deficient mice accelerated plaque development and increased VSMC senescence. Mechanistically, we identified the deubiquitinase USP5 as a previously unrecognized stabilizer of TGFBR1. USP5 directly interacted with TGFBR1 and selectively removed K48-linked polyubiquitin chains at lysine 213, thereby preventing proteasomal degradation. Stabilized TGFBR1 suppressed the mitochondrial enzyme IDH2, driving a metabolic shift toward glycolysis that sustained apoptosis resistance in senescent VSMCs. Conversely, VSMC-specific knockdown of USP5 reduced TGFBR1 expression, restored IDH2 expression, attenuated glycolytic remodeling, and mitigated atherosclerosis in vivo. Our findings reveal a USP5-TGFBR1-IDH2 axis in which site-specific deubiquitination at K213 links receptor stability to metabolic remodeling and VSMC senescence, identifying USP5 as a potential therapeutic target for atherosclerosis.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Several gonadal neoplasms harbor recurrent CTNNB1 mutations, including sex cord-stromal tumors, such as Sertoli cell tumor, NOS and gonadal signet ring stromal tumor, ovarian and testicular microcystic stromal tumor (MCST), in addition to gonadal solid pseudopapillary neoplasms (SPN). Despite being classified as separate entities, they have notable morphologic and immunophenotypic similarities. Of note, gonadal SPNs have been regarded as the counterparts of pancreatic SPN, but their relationship remains poorly understood. We analyzed 28 gonadal sex cord-stromal tumors, including testicular Sertoli cell tumors NOS (n=8), MCSTs (n=2), and signet ring stromal tumor (n=6), ovarian MCSTs (n=11), signet ring stromal tumor (n=1), together with ovarian SPNs (n=4) and pancreatic SPNs (n=9). Histologic features were reviewed, and immunohistochemistry for SF-1, SOX9, WT1, β-catenin, inhibin, and calretinin was performed. CTNNB1 mutation status was assessed by NGS in selected cases. DNA methylation profiling was performed successfully in 25 tumors (61%). All gonadal tumors showed overlapping morphologic features, comprising variable combinations of tubular, solid, signet ring and microcystic patterns, although the abundance of individual patterns varied between entities. Pancreatic SPNs showed similar cytologic features to gonadal tumors and commonly exhibited solid and pseudopapillary architecture with frequent cystic structures but lacked true tubular differentiation. Immunohistochemically, SF-1 expression was present in 27/31 (87%) tested gonadal tumors whereas all pancreatic SPNs were negative (4/4). Diffuse nuclear β-catenin expression was identified in all evaluable gonadal and pancreatic tumors (35/35, 100%). SOX9 and WT1 were expressed in 19/21 (90%) and 24/25 (96%) of gonadal tumors, respectively. In contrast, pancreatic SPNs were negative for SF-1 and WT1 in all evaluable cases (4/4 each), with only a single case showing focal SOX9 positivity. Inhibin and calretinin expression was largely absent in gonadal tumors, with only rare focal or weak positivity (3 cases) and a single ovarian MCST showing diffuse calretinin expression. Methylation analysis demonstrated closely related epigenetic profiles among gonadal CTNNB1-driven tumors, regardless of their histologic classification, whereas pancreatic SPNs formed a separate cluster. These findings indicate that several CTNNB1-driven tumors of the gonads currently classified as different entities share morphologic, immunophenotypic, and epigenetic features, supporting the concept that they represent variations within the same spectrum. Despite some morphologic overlap, these gonadal tumors are different from pancreatic SPN based on DNA methylation signatures.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Kidney fibrosis is the pathologic hallmark of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and is driven by fibroblast-to-myofibroblast transformation (FMT), excessive extracellular matrix accumulation, and persistent activation of transforming growth factor-β (TGFβ) signaling. Although TGFβ is a central mediator of fibrosis, its pleiotropic physiological functions have limited the development of direct anti-fibrotic therapies, highlighting the need to identify context-specific regulators of this pathway. Matrix Gla Protein (MGP) is a vitamin K-dependent extracellular protein best known for inhibiting vascular calcification; however, its role in kidney fibrosis remains unknown. Here, we demonstrate that MGP expression is markedly upregulated in fibroblasts from fibrotic kidneys in mouse models of chronic kidney injury and in human CKD samples. Using inducible global and fibroblast-specific Mgp knockout mice, we show that Mgp deficiency attenuates renal fibrosis, suppresses fibroblast activation, and preserves kidney function following folic acid nephropathy and unilateral ureteral obstruction. Mechanistically, MGP promotes FMT and amplifies TGFβ receptor/Smad3 signaling, whereas genetic or molecular inhibition of MGP blunts TGFβ-driven fibroblast activation both in vivo and in vitro. We further identify phosphorylation and γ-carboxylation as essential post-translational modifications required for the profibrotic activity of MGP. In addition, MGP interacts with bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2), reduces BMP-2 protein abundance, and counteracts BMP-2-mediated suppression of TGFβ signaling, thereby enhancing profibrotic responses. Collectively, these findings identify MGP as a previously unrecognized regulator of TGFβ-dependent fibroblast activation and kidney fibrosis, supporting MGP as a potential fibroblast-associated target for future strategies aimed at limiting CKD progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
Restrictive cardiomyopathy (RCM) is characterized by pronounced cardiac fibrosis, leading to ventricular stiffening and diastolic dysfunction. While cardiomyocyte mutations are known triggers, the mechanisms initiating pro-fibrotic signaling remain elusive. This study investigates the role of cardiomyocyte-derived exosomes and specific tRNA-derived small RNAs (tsRNAs) in this pathogenic intercellular communication. Using a cTnIR193H knock-in mouse model, we observed pronounced cardiac fibrosis prior to the onset of heart failure, without significant cardiomyocyte apoptosis. This primary fibrotic response was mediated by a paracrine mechanism, as conditioned medium from mutant cardiomyocytes was sufficient to activate fibroblasts. Subsequent small RNA sequencing of cardiomyocyte-derived exosomes identified the tRNA-derived fragment 5'tiRNA-GluCTC as a significantly enriched species. Functional studies established this RNA as a critical mediator, demonstrating that its overexpression exacerbated fibrotic responses in vitro and induced fibrotic remodeling in wild-type mice, while its inhibition via a cardiac-targeted AAV sponge attenuated fibroblast activation and alleviated fibrosis in RCM mice. Mechanistically, 5'tiRNA-GluCTC is transferred to fibroblasts, directly targets the 3'UTR of Foxq1 to repress its expression, and consequently activates the Smad3/p-Smad3 signaling cascade. Collectively, these results delineate a 5'tiRNA-GluCTC/Foxq1/Smad3 signaling axis that drives fibrosis in RCM, uncovering a previously uncharacterized signaling cascade with therapeutic potential.Copyright 2026 The Author(s).
Resistance to anti-programmed cell death protein-1 (PD-1) treatment in gastric cancer (GC) is closely associated with an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. However, the role of neutrophils in resistance to anti-PD-1 therapy remains unclear.Single-cell RNA sequencing was performed on tumor samples from patients with advanced GC receiving anti-PD-1 therapy to identify neutrophil subsets associated with neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs). Multilevel experimental validation was conducted using multiomics analysis, flow cytometry, multiplex immunofluorescence, and in vitro co-culture. Therapeutic strategies targeting NETs and CD8+ T-cell exhaustion were evaluated in a mouse model of YTN16 tumors.We identified a NETs-associated neutrophil subset enriched in patients with GC resistant to anti-PD-1 treatment. This subset was marked by CD177, and it exhibited a high potential for NETs release. Peripheral blood NETs levels and CD177+ neutrophil ratios in patients with GC act as markers for evaluating the efficacy of PD-1 inhibitors. Furthermore, transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1), which was highly expressed in GC and spatially colocalized with CD177+ neutrophils, might induce neutrophils to release NETs via the Smad3-NFE2 axis. NETs promoted CD8+ T cell exhaustion by activating the MEK/ERK-c-Fos/JunB axis, as evidenced by increased PD-1/TIM3 expression and reduced interferon-gamma/tumor necrosis factor-alpha secretion. In vivo experiments confirmed that targeted inhibition of NETs formation using DNase I or TGF-β1 inhibitors significantly suppressed tumor growth and CD8+ T cell exhaustion. Notably, the MEK inhibitor trametinib reversed the immunosuppressive microenvironment associated with CD8+ T cell exhaustion and synergistically enhanced the antitumor efficacy with anti-PD-1 therapy.TGF-β1 drives CD177+ neutrophils to release NETs, which induce CD8+ T cell exhaustion via the ERK-c-Fos-JunB pathway, thereby mediating resistance to anti-PD-1 treatment in GC. Furthermore, targeting NETs formation and combining trametinib with PD-1 inhibitors can significantly reverse CD8+ T cell exhaustion, exert synergistic antitumor effects, and offer a potential therapeutic strategy for overcoming resistance to anti-PD-1 therapy in GC.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
An essential uncontrolled process-liver fibrosis-is vital to cirrhosis and liver cancer onset. There are currently no approved antifibrotic drugs in clinical application. Saponins are a class of major bioactive components of Bupleuri radix (Chaihu) that play important roles against liver fibrosis. Glycolysis inhibition may control the activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), serving as an effective anti-fibrotic strategy. However, the mechanism by which saikosaponins exert anti-liver fibrosis effects by regulating glycolysis through HIF-1α is unclear.To explore the mechanism by which Bupleuri radix total saikosaponins (BRTS) inhibit HSC activation and alleviate liver fibrosis.Purified BRTS were obtained by extraction with saturated aqueous n-butanol solution, followed by adsorption and purification with AB-8 macroporous resin. After removing impurities using 40% ethanol, the product was washed with 90% ethanol. LC-MS/MS and HPLC were used to characterize the BRTS components and determine their contents. We used Network pharmacology to predict the possible mechanism underlying BRTS. CCl4 was intraperitoneally injected to create a liver fibrosis rat model, and we added TGF-β1 to LX-2 cells to create a HSC activation model. Haematoxylin and eosin (H&E), Masson, and Sirius Red staining of liver tissue, along with serum and liver biochemical indicator measurement analysed the extent of liver injury and fibrosis. Western blotting, qRT-PCR, immunofluorescence, immunohistochemistry, transcriptomics, and metabolomics practices analysed liver fibrosis- or HSC activation-related protein, gene, and metabolite expression. ELISA kits were used to detect glycolytic activity, SIRT3 deacetylase activity, lactate secretion, and the glucose uptake rate. Moreover, the mechanism by which BRTS improves liver fibrosis was validated using a glycolysis inhibitor, i.e., 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG), 2-methoxyestradiol (2-ME, a kind of HIF-1α inhibitor), dimethyl oxoglutarate (DMOG, a kind of HIF-1α stabilizer), and SIRT3 inhibitor (3-TYP).The overall yield of BRTS was 6.56 ± 0.41%, and the main components were saikosaponin A (176.1 ± 10.5 mg/g) and saikosaponin D (132.7 ± 7.7 mg/g). Network pharmacology and LC-MS analyses revealed that the core anti-liver fibrosis target was HIF-1α. BRTS may show anti-liver fibrosis properties by regulating the HIF-1 signalling pathway, per the KEGG pathway enrichment analysis. Molecular docking suggested that both saikosaponin A and saikosaponin D can stably bind to SIRT3. In vivo, BRTS can improve the symptoms of CCl4-mediated liver fibrosis, alleviate liver injury, reduce collagen fibre content, and decrease collagen deposition, including significantly reduced serum AST and ALT activity, serum LN, HA, PC III, and COL IV levels, and liver lactate levels. BRTS significantly reversed the increased α-SMA, COL1, HIF-1α, and p-SMAD3 protein expression and the decreased SIRT3 protein expression (p<0.05). In addition, BRTS downregulated GLUT1, PKM2, HK2, and LDHA mRNA expression (all glycolytic genes) than the MOD group (p<0.05). The in vitro experimental results revealed that BRTS significantly inhibited LX-2 cell activation caused by TGF-β1, and reduced glucose uptake rates and level of lactate released (p<0.05). BRTS administration raised SIRT3 protein expression and activation, reduced HIF-1α and p-SMAD3 nuclear translocation, downregulated COL1, HIF-1α, α-SMA, and p-SMAD3 protein expression, and reduced glycolytic gene mRNA expression (p<0.05). In LX-2 cells, 2-DG and 2-ME further promoted the suppressive impact of BRTS on glycolysis and activation. Compared with BRTS treatment, DMOG resulted in significant reversal of the suppressive impact of BRTS on glycolysis as well as activation and COL1 and HIF-1α protein expression. In addition, BRTS promoted the deacetylase activity of SIRT3. In LX-2 activated cells where SIRT3 is inhibited, the inhibitory effect of BRTS on HIF-1α and p-SMAD3 protein expression is eliminated.BRTS regulates the SMAD3/HIF-1α signalling axis through SIRT3 to mediate glycolysis in HSCs, which suppresses HSC activation and improves liver fibrosis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
This study aims to investigate the effect and mechanism of baicalein in improving alveolar epithelial cell senescence. A cellular model of alveolar epithelial cell senescence induced by transforming growth factor-β1(TGF-β1) was established. Cells were randomly divided into control group, model group, baicalein group, small interfering RNA(siRNA) targeting Smad family member 2(Smad2) group, siRNA targeting Smad3 group, and baicalein + Smad3 plasmid group. Western blot was employed to detect the protein expression level of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1(PAI-1), a marker protein of alveolar epithelial cell senescence. Senescence-associated β-galactosidase(SA-β-gal) staining was used to measure the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells. The results show that baicalein can significantly inhibit the protein expression of PAI-1 in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells and markedly reduce the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. Baicalein can also significantly decrease the phosphorylation levels of Smad2 protein and Smad3 protein in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. Knockdown of Smad2 does not affect the protein expression level of PAI-1 in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells, nor does it alter the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. In contrast, knockdown of Smad3 can significantly downregulate the protein expression level of PAI-1 and reduce the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. Overexpression of Smad3 can notably reverse the inhibitory effects of baicalein on PAI-1 protein expression and the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. In conclusion, baicalein improves alveolar epithelial cell senescence by downregulating the TGF-β1/Smad3 signaling, but this effect might be independent of Smad2 signaling.
Spermatogonial stem cells (SSCs) are responsible for lifelong spermatogenesis in adult males; however, their scarcity and inherent heterogeneity, coupled with the lack of robust SSC-specific surface markers, continue to impede isolation and characterization. In the present study, we found CD71, which corresponds to transferrin receptor (TfR1; encoded by Tfrc), a candidate marker capable of enriching for SSC populations from mouse testes. The immunohistochemistry detected co-localization of CD71 with the undifferentiated spermatogonia marker glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor family receptor alpha 1 (GFRα1) on the seminiferous basement membrane, with approximately 81% co-localization. Consistent with this finding, the expression of Tfrc was up-regulated in SSC-enriched germ cell populations relative to mouse germ cell lines (GC-1 and GC-2) and somatic cell lines from testis (TM3 and TM4). Fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) analysis further showed that GFRα1+ cells exhibited approximately 1.4-fold higher Tfrc mRNA expression than GFRα1- cells. Similarly, CD71+ cells exhibited significantly higher expression of the undifferentiated spermatogonia markers Id4, Lhx1, Gfrα1, Zbtb16, and Etv5. Functional transplantation assays further demonstrate that CD71high cells give rise to approximately 5.5-fold more colonies than freshy isolated, FACS-unsorted donor cells. Moreover, peanut agglutinin (PNA) lectin staining confirmed the normal spermatogenic differentiation within colonies derived from CD71high donor cells. Our findings collectively indicate that CD71high cells represent an SSC-enriched population with enhanced spermatogenic regenerative capacity and support the use of CD71 as a complementary marker for SSC enrichment and fertility restoration.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.
Septic shock is characterized by severe circulatory failure, microvascular dysfunction, and metabolic derangement. Methylene blue (MB) and vitamin B12 (VB12) have each shown potential benefit in vasodilatory shock, but the biological effects of their combined use remain unclear.A rat model of LPS-induced septic shock was used to evaluate the effects of combined MB and VB12 pretreatment. Transcriptomic analysis of carotid artery tissue was performed to identify treatment-responsive genes and pathways. Expression of KCNMB1, PRKG1, and PRKG2 was assessed by immunohistochemistry, western blotting, and RT-qPCR. Hemodynamic parameters, circulating injury markers, inflammatory cytokines, oxidative stress indices, and histological changes in major organs were also evaluated.Combined MB and VB12 treatment was associated with lower expression of KCNMB1, PRKG1, and PRKG2 and reduced cGMP levels compared with the model group. The combined treatment also partially improved hemodynamic abnormalities, reduced NO, H2S, and lactate levels, and attenuated inflammatory and oxidative stress responses. Histological injury in the lung, liver, kidney, and carotid artery was also alleviated.In this experimental model, combined MB and VB12 pretreatment attenuated multiple features of septic shock and was accompanied by modulation of KCNMB1 and cGMP-PRKG pathway-related markers. These findings support a potential protective role of the combined regimen, although the causal mechanistic relationship requires further investigation.Copyright: © 2026 Shan et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Chiari malformation type 1 (CM1) is a neurological disorder characterized by cerebellar tonsil herniation. While nuclear DNA has been associated with craniovertebral development, the role of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) remains unclear. This study investigated nuclear DNA variants (PAX1, EPAS1, DKK1, GDF6) and mtDNA D-loop mutations in CM1 patients from East Coast Malaysia.Sixty-eight participants were enrolled, comprising 38 CM1 patients and 30 controls. Genomic DNA from peripheral blood was analyzed by polymerase chain reaction amplification and Sanger sequencing. Associations between genetic variants and clinicopathological parameters (age, sex, tonsillar herniation, syringomyelia) were assessed using chi-square or Fisher's exact test.Four nuclear DNA variants were identified, comprising a synonymous PAX1 mutation (c.555G>A, p.K185K) and intronic changes in EPAS1 (c.1035-7C>G), DKK1 (c.548-3T>C), and GDF6 (c.406+112T>C), none of which exhibited significant associations with clinicopathological characteristics. In contrast, mtDNA analysis revealed that 50% of CM1 patients (n = 30) harbored D-loop mutations, predominantly T>C or G>A transitions, including 18 novel variants. Mutation frequency was significantly higher in patients with more severe tonsillar herniation (>10 mm) (OR = 28.570; 95% CI: 3.080-250.000; P < .001) and in those with syringomyelia (OR = 7.792; 95% CI: 1.782-34.060; P = .007), while no significant associations were observed with age or sex.Nuclear DNA variants may function as genetic modifiers without significant clinical impact. Conversely, mtDNA D-loop mutations were prevalent and correlated with disease severity, suggesting a contributory role in CM1 pathogenesis and warranting further investigation of mitochondrial genetic factors. Cite this article as: Rosdi SNM, Mohamed Yusoff AA. Nuclear and mitochondrial DNA variants in Chiari malformation type 1: insights from an east coast Malaysian cohort. Eurasian J Med. 2026, 58(4), 1209, doi: 10.5152/eurasianjmed.2026.251209.
Intervertebral disc degeneration (IDD) is a primary cause of low back pain, characterized by cell loss, extracellular matrix (ECM) degradation, and a harsh microenvironment with excessive oxidative stress, creating an urgent need for regenerative therapies. This study aimed to develop and evaluate a multifunctional injectable hydrogel (Gel@MnO2/GDF6) co-delivering growth differentiation factor 6 (GDF6) for anabolic stimulation and manganese dioxide (MnO2) nanozymes for reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenging to treat IDD. The MnO2 nanorods and the chitosan-arginine/oxidized dextran-based hydrogel were synthesized and characterized, demonstrating sustained GDF6 release and pH-responsive degradation. In vitro, Gel@MnO2/GDF6 protected nucleus pulposus (NP) cells from H2O2-induced oxidative stress by reducing ROS, upregulating antioxidant enzymes, promoting anabolic ECM metabolism (increasing Aggrecan and Collagen II while decreasing ADAMTS-4 and MMP-13), reducing key inflammatory cytokine expression (TNF-α and IL-6), and activating the Smad pathway. In vivo, intra-discal injection of Gel@MnO2/GDF6 into a rat IDD model significantly attenuated disc degeneration over 12 weeks, as evidenced by improved histological scores, preserved disc height and hydration on radiological and MRI assessments, restoration of ECM protein homeostasis, reduced cellular apoptosis, mitigated inflammatory marker expression, and activated Smad pathway, with these therapeutic effects being superior to those achieved with hydrogels containing only MnO2 or GDF6. Importantly, all tested hydrogel formulations, including Gel@MnO2/GDF6, demonstrated good systemic biocompatibility. These findings collectively demonstrate that the multifunctional Gel@MnO2/GDF6 hydrogel effectively promotes intervertebral disc regeneration by concurrently mitigating oxidative stress and fostering an anabolic, anti-inflammatory microenvironment, validating its potential as a promising therapeutic method for IDD.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Purpose: To describe the morphological and functional features of two patients phenotypically and genotypically diagnosed with Best disease and autosomal dominant drusen (BD-ADD) using multimodal imaging. It is hypothesized that the concurrent presence of pathogenic mutations in both BEST1 and EFEMP1 genes is associated with a phenotype that may exhibit characteristic features of both diseases potentially revealing further additive effects on retinal function or structure. The data are compared with those from a patient with genetically confirmed ADD. Methods: The patients received a full ophthalmological investigation, including fundus autofluorescence (FAF) imaging, spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) and polarization-sensitive optical coherence tomography (PS-OCT). Genetic analysis of DNA samples was performed by targeted whole-exome sequencing. Results: Macular SD-OCT demonstrated a thickened retinal pigment epithelium (RPE)-Bruch's membrane complex corresponding to macular drusen-like deposits in both ADD and BD-ADD cases. In contrast to isolated ADD, BD-ADD showed small hyperautofluorescent dots originating in hyperreflective photoreceptor debris at or above the RPE on FAF imaging. FAF further showed large hyperautofluorescent spots corresponding to sub-RPE drusen in both ADD and BD-ADD. The tissue-specific contrast of PS-OCT imaging allowed identification of the RPE within the macular lesion, structural changes of the subretinal material and incipient scar formation. Genetic analysis identified pathogenic mutations in both the BEST1 and the EFEMP1 gene in both BD-ADD cases. Conclusions: The characteristic morphological and functional features of both diseases are evident in the patients with the BD-ADD dual genotype. The coexistence of two independent autosomal dominant disorders provides an illustrative opportunity to inform our understanding of BEST1- and EFEMP1-mediated retinal disease.
Malattia Leventinese (MAL) is an inherited macular degeneration disorder characterized by retinal drusen formation in adolescence, leading to vision loss. A mutation in the fibulin-3 gene (EFEMP1) causes MAL; however, the mechanisms underlying disease onset and drusen formation remain unclear. In this study, we generated induced pluripotent stem cell-derived retinal pigment epithelial (iPSC-RPE) cells from a patient with MAL to investigate disease mechanisms and potential therapies. MAL iPSC-RPE exhibited fibulin-3 and apolipoprotein E (ApoE) aggregation, increased endoplasmic reticulum stress, and enhanced apoptosis. Long-term culture with photoreceptor outer segments led to drusen-like deposits containing ApoE, complement components, and collagen IV accumulation, and it showed activation of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP2). Untargeted lipid analysis revealed increased hexosylceramide and bis-monoacylglycerophosphate levels in MAL iPSC-RPE cells. A key pathological feature was lysosomal dysfunction associated with altered regulation of lysosomal gene programs, including reduced transcription factor EB transcript levels. Treatment with trehalose, a lysosome-modulating compound, increased lysosomal content and function, reducing drusen-like deposit formation, inhibiting MMP2 activation, and suppressing apoptosis. This study highlighted lysosomal dysfunction as a contributor to RPE damage, drusen-like deposit accumulation, and extracellular matrix degradation. Pharmacological restoration of lysosomal function alleviated these defects, suggesting therapeutic potential for MAL and other drusen-related diseases, including age-related macular degeneration.
Chronic respiratory diseases cause substantial global morbidity and mortality, yet the shared genetic architecture of pulmonary-function traits, exposure-related phenotypes, and cardiometabolic traits remains incompletely characterised. We applied genomic structural equation modelling to GWAS summary statistics for four pulmonary-function traits, lifetime smoking index, ambient PM2.5 exposure, and arterial oxygen tension to model their shared genetic covariance (mvLung). The mvLung GWAS identified 2,156 loci, including 376 not significant in the individual input GWASs. EFEMP1 was prioritised as a candidate gene, and 41 respiratory and cardiometabolic traits showed significant genetic correlations. Colocalisation, gene-prioritisation, and enrichment analyses identified candidate shared regions and highlighted extracellular-matrix, cell-adhesion, epithelial-barrier, and signalling-related annotations. Drug-target analyses showed pathway-level concordance with previously studied cardiopulmonary drug classes. These findings characterise shared genetic signals across the included traits and nominate candidates for functional follow-up. Because mvLung incorporates exposure-related and oxygenation phenotypes, the results do not represent direct genetic effects on pulmonary function alone, causal mechanisms, or therapeutic efficacy.© 2026. The Author(s).
The transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) superfamily regulates diverse biological processes, including proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, tissue remodeling, and reproductive signaling across metazoans. Here, we performed a genome-wide characterization of the TGF-β gene family in donkey (Equus asinus, ASM1607732v2) using comparative genomics and bioinformatics analyses, with horse (Equus caballus, EquCab3.0) as a reference to investigate evolutionary conservation and functional divergence. Genome assemblies and proteomes were retrieved from NCBI, and TGF-β genes were identified using BLASTp and HMMER searches (Pfam PF00019), followed by phylogenetic, conserved motif, synteny, Ka/Ks, mutation prediction, subcellular localization, and tissue-specific expression analyses. We identified 40 TGF-β genes in donkeys, exceeding the numbers reported in several mammals, suggesting possible lineage-specific expansion or differential gene retention within Equidae. Phylogenetic and motif analyses demonstrated strong evolutionary conservation across the two principal clades (TGF-β-like and BMP-like). Four segmental duplications were identified, with Ka/Ks ratios ranging from 0.28 to 0.43, indicating strong purifying selection on duplicated genes. Synteny analysis revealed extensive collinearity with the horse genome, supporting conserved equid genomic architecture. Comparative sequence analysis identified 160 amino acid variants, including 11 predicted deleterious mutations in key genes (GDF6, GDF9, GDF10, BMP15, and RGMA), suggesting potential functional divergence associated with reproductive and developmental pathways. Importantly, transcriptomic validation using publicly available donkey RNA-seq tissue expression data (NCBI BioProject: PRJNA1017964) revealed distinct tissue-specific expression patterns, with reproductive tissues (ovary and uterus) displaying enriched expression of TGF-β/BMP signaling components, particularly TGFBR1, TGFBR2, TGFB1, BMP2, BMP4, and BMP7, while canonical fecundity genes (GDF9 and BMP15) exhibited ovary-associated expression. This receptor-dominant signaling profile may have a coordinated TGF-β regulatory network underlying folliculogenesis, reproductive tissue remodeling, and fertility-related processes in donkeys. Subcellular localization predictions showed that most proteins (22/40) were extracellularly localized, consistent with conserved signaling functions. Together, this study provides the first integrated genomic and tissue-expression atlas of the donkey TGF-β superfamily, offering new insights into equid-specific evolutionary conservation, reproductive signaling, and functional divergence.
Although nucleos(t)ide analog (NUC) therapy reduces hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) incidence in chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients, HCC can develop despite viral suppression. Identifying predictive biomarkers of HCC during NUC therapy remains clinically important. This study aimed to identify novel biomarkers by proteomic analysis of serum extracellular vesicle (EV) proteins in CHB patients receiving NUC therapy.We enrolled 242 CHB patients treated with NUCs for over one year, with serum HBV DNA < 3.0 log IU/mL, no prior HCC, and available stored serum samples. Proteomic analysis of serum EV proteins was carried out to identify candidate biomarkers, followed by validation of their serum levels using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).The median age was 55 years; 144 were male. During a median follow-up of 10.1 years, 44 patients (18.2%) developed HCC. Five candidate EV proteins were identified: fibulin-3, VCAM-1, fibronectin, vWF, and FGFBP2. In univariate Cox analysis of serum levels of candidate EV proteins measured by ELISA, fibulin-3 and VCAM-1 were identified as significant predictive factors. In multivariate analysis, male sex, GGT, AFP, fibulin-3, and the FIB-4 index were independent predictors, whereas VCAM-1 was not. A cutoff value for fibulin-3 was set at 10.8 μg/mL. HCC incidence was significantly higher in patients with fibulin-3 ≥ 10.8 μg/mL and in those with ≥ 3 of five identified risk factors. The 10-year cumulative HCC incidence was 0% versus 37.2% in patients with 0 versus ≥ 3 risk factors.Serum fibulin-3 is a novel biomarker predictive of HCC in CHB patients undergoing NUC therapy.© 2026 The Author(s). Hepatology Research published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japan Society of Hepatology.
Acquired resistance to sorafenib remains a major obstacle to effectively treating advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Ferroptosis has emerged as a key mechanism influencing therapeutic response. EGF-containing fibulin extracellular matrix protein 1 (EFEMP1) contributes to sorafenib resistance in HCC cells by regulating ferroptosis, but its upstream regulatory mechanisms remain elusive.Potential E3 ligases for EFEMP1 were screened using the UbiBrowser database. Protein interactions were validated by co-immunoprecipitation. The effects of SMAD ubiquitination regulatory factor 1 (SMURF1) and EFEMP1 on sorafenib sensitivity were assessed via IC50, colony formation, apoptosis, and migration/invasion assays. Assessment of ferroptosis was based on measuring levels of ROS, MDA, and iron, along with the expression of SLC7A11 and GPX4. The in vivo efficacy was demonstrated employing a xenograft mouse model.SMURF1 could bind to and ubiquitinate EFEMP1, promoting its proteasomal degradation. Overexpression of SMURF1 in sorafenib-resistant HCC cells decreased EFEMP1 protein stability, reversed drug resistance, and suppressed malignant phenotypes, but these effects were rescued following EFEMP1 upregulation. Mechanistically, SMURF1-mediated EFEMP1 degradation activated ferroptosis, evidenced by increased ROS/MDA/iron and decreased SLC7A11/GPX4, which was also reversed by EFEMP1. In vivo, SMURF1 overexpression synergized with sorafenib to inhibit tumor growth, which was again reversed by EFEMP1.This study demonstrates a novel SMURF1-EFEMP1-ferroptosis regulatory axis, wherein SMURF1 overcomes sorafenib resistance by ubiquitinating and degrading EFEMP1 to relieve its inhibition on ferroptosis. Targeting this axis presents a promising strategy for combating acquired resistance in HCC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Spaceflight-associated neuro-ocular syndrome (SANS) poses significant ocular health risks in long-duration missions, yet its molecular mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Oxidative stress and apoptosis are candidate drivers, but their transcriptomic-phenotypic relationships in spaceflight-exposed retinal tissue have not been systematically characterized. We applied a machine learning ensemble to predict two ocular phenotypes: 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) endothelial cell density as a marker of oxidative damage, and TUNEL endothelial cell density as a marker of apoptosis. In this observational study, we use transcriptomic data from a controlled experiment with ground control and spaceflown mice to predict these phenotypes. Gene Ontology pathway enrichment was performed using the most predictive genes for each phenotype. Genes predicting 4-HNE converge on membrane-associated pathways, photoreceptor modification, synaptic dysfunction, and extracellular matrix dysregulation, including B2m, Trf, Cnga1, mt-Nd1, Snap25, and Efemp1. Genes predicting TUNEL emphasize stress-induced apoptosis, rod photoreceptor degeneration, and endoplasmic reticulum dysfunction, with Ddit4, Nrl, Rom1, Reep6, and Gabarapl1 emerging as central regulators. Oxidative lipid peroxidation and apoptotic cell death represent complementary and molecularly distinct pathological mechanisms in spaceflight-exposed murine retinal tissue. The gene signatures provide a putative molecular framework for developing noninvasive biomarkers and therapeutic targets to monitor and protect astronaut visual health during long-duration and deep-space missions.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hypertriglyceridemia (HTG) frequently occurs in population with abnormal glucose metabolism (AGM), exacerbating risk. In our preliminary researches, we have screened hsa_circ_0000973 and MBOAT2 as the possible regulatory elements of HTG in AGM patients. This study enrolled 142 AGM subjects (71 with HTG, 71 with normal triglycerides) to investigate the role and mechanism of the hsa_circ_0000973 and MBOAT2 in AGM-associated HTG. Expression levels of hsa_circ_0000973 and MBOAT2 were measured by RT-qPCR. Diagnostic performance was evaluated via ROC analysis. Functional validation was performed in an insulin-resistant (IR) HepG2 cell model following knockdown of hsa_circ_0000973 or MBOAT2 using siRNA. Cellular triglyceride (TG) content, glucose uptake, proliferation, apoptosis, and expression of lipid metabolism transcription factors (SREBP-1c, PPARα, PPARγ) were assessed. In the AGM population, expression of both hsa_circ_0000973 and MBOAT2 was significantly downregulated in the HTG group and negatively correlated with serum TG levels (P <0 .01). hsa_circ_0000973 exhibited high diagnostic accuracy for HTG in the AGM population (AUC = 0.95). In HepG2-IR cells, knockdown of hsa_circ_0000973 decreased MBOAT2 expression, increased cellular TG accumulation and residual glucose, inhibited proliferation, and promoted apoptosis. Similar phenotypes were observed upon MBOAT2 knockdown. Both knockdowns upregulated SREBP-1c and downregulated PPARα and PPARγ. This study identified that hsa_circ_0000973 may serve as a candidate biomarker for identifying HTG specifically within the AGM population. Our in vitro experiments further suggested that, in the setting of AGM, hsa_circ_0000973 may jointly regulated TG metabolism alongside MBOAT2.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Immune aging impairs T cell-mediated tumor control as well as cancer immunotherapy outcomes. The most important drivers of T cell dysfunction in aged tumors remain unknown. We performed single-cell CRISPR screens to identify Dusp5 and Zfp219 as key regulators of CD8+ T cell persistence and effector differentiation within aged tumors. Loss of Dusp5 increased extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) phosphorylation and globally enhanced T cell proliferation. Conversely, Zfp219 deletion induced epigenetic reprogramming and increased expression of cytotoxic molecules, enhancing antitumor immunity specifically in aging. Levels of the human ortholog ZNF219 were higher within intratumoral CD8+ T cells from older cancer patients, which correlates with worse survival following immunotherapy. Zfp219 ablation synergized with immune checkpoint inhibitors to expand effector-like CD8+ T cells, leading to tumor clearance in aged mice. Our findings highlight Dusp5 and Zfp219 as critical drivers of age-related T cell dysfunction that can be targeted to rejuvenate antitumor immunity in older cancer patients.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The aging brain exhibits a decline in the regenerative populations of neural stem cells (NSCs). While mechanisms that restore old NSC function have started to be identified, the role of lipids-especially complex lipids-in NSC aging remains largely unclear. Using lipidomic profiling by mass spectrometry, we identify age-related changes in complex lipids in quiescent NSCs in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, several polyunsaturated fatty acids increase across lipid classes in quiescent NSCs during aging. Using spatial lipidomics, we find that some of the changes in complex lipids are also observed in situ. Several age-related changes in complex lipids and side chain composition are occurring at the plasma membrane, as revealed by lipidomic profiling of isolated plasma membrane vesicles. Experimentally, we show that aging is accompanied by a decrease in plasma membrane order, a key membrane biophysical property, in old quiescent NSCs in vitro and in vivo. To determine the functional role of plasma membrane lipids in aging NSCs, we performed genetic and supplementation studies. Knocking out the phospholipid acyltransferase MBOAT2 exacerbates age-related lipidomic changes in old quiescent NSCs and impedes their ability to activate. Mboat2 overexpression reverses age-related lipidomic changes in old quiescent NSCs and boosts their ability to activate in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, supplementation of plasma membrane lipids from young NSCs improves the ability of old quiescent NSCs to activate. Our work could lead to lipid-based strategies for restoring the regenerative potential of NSCs, which has important implications for countering brain decline during aging.
To characterize the epigenetic features of mouse Meckel's cartilage and potential gene expression regulation mechanisms based on multi-omics data.E14.5 Meckel's cartilage and forelimb cartilage multi-omics data in our group were incorporated, and published datasets of a wide range of mouse chondrocytes from the GEO database were also downloaded. Bioinformatics methods were used to compare chromatin accessibility, histone acetylation modifications, as well as three-dimensional genomic structural differences between different chondrocyte samples.ATAC-seq analysis results showed that E14.5 Meckel's cartilage exhibited a more similar chromatin accessibility pattern to epiphyseal cartilage. CUT-Tag analysis results showed that H3K27ac modification level of 11 899 peaks differed significantly between Meckel's cartilage and forelimb cartilage, and acetylation modifications in 8 572 peaks were upregulated in Merkel's cartilage. Motif analysis results showed that the up-regulated H3K27ac peaks in Meckel's cartilage were enriched with Fos, Atf3, and AP-1 binding sites. Integration analysis of CUT-Tag and Hi-C results indicated the presence of chromatin loop-mediated promoter-super-enhancer interactions at the loci of Runx2 and Six2.E14.5 Meckel's cartilage mainly exhibits chromatin accessibility characteristics of proliferative chondrocytes. Transcription factors such as Fos, and Six2 may play an important role in the transcriptional regulation of Meckel's cartilage development during the proliferative stage. Changes in chromatin epigenetic modifications associated with hypertrophy of Meckel's cartilage may appear gradually during the later stage of Merkel's cartilage development.
Mitochondrial ribosomal protein L13 (MRPL13) has been implicated in tumor progression, but its relevance to esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) remains insufficiently defined. Because mitochondrial adaptation can influence tumor cell fitness under oncogenic and oxidative stress, we investigated whether MRPL13 is associated with aggressive ESCC biology and mitochondrial functional states.We analyzed MRPL13 expression, clinical associations, survival relevance, mutation patterns, immune-related correlates, and pathway enrichment using TCGA and related public datasets, with an emphasis on ESCC-specific analyses. Experimental validation was performed using paired ESCC tissues and KYSE150 cells with shRNA-mediated MRPL13 knockdown. Western blotting, colony formation, transwell migration/invasion assays, mitochondrial membrane potential assessment, and ROS staining were used to evaluate protein expression, cellular behavior, and mitochondrial status.MRPL13 was up-regulated in ESCC and its expression was associated with tumor stage and unfavorable prognosis. MRPL13 expression correlated with a set of cancer-associated genes, including SIX2, SPP1, COL11A1, DSC3, and CCNA1, several of which were also increased at the protein level in paired ESCC tissues. ESCC tumors with higher MRPL13 expression showed distinct mutation and immune-related expression patterns; however, these immune associations were interpreted as correlates of tumor state rather than direct evidence of immune regulation. Pathway analyses indicated enrichment of MAPK-related signaling in MRPL13-high tumors. Consistently, MRPL13 knockdown in KYSE150 cells reduced phosphorylation of MEK1/2, ERK1/2, JNK1/2, and p38, impaired colony formation and in vitro migration/invasion, decreased mitochondrial membrane potential, and increased intracellular ROS levels.These findings suggest that MRPL13 identifies an aggressive ESCC state in which mitochondrial integrity, MAPK-associated signaling, and tumor cell fitness are functionally coupled. Rather than establishing MRPL13 as a fully defined upstream driver, our data support a more restrained interpretation: MRPL13 may help ESCC cells maintain mitochondrial stress tolerance, and its loss exposes a vulnerability characterized by reduced MAPK phosphorylation, impaired clonogenic and invasive capacity, mitochondrial depolarization, and ROS accumulation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42372934 is a review article
Formononetin and salvianolic acid B (FcS) are the primary bioactive components of the Astragalus mongholicus-Salvia miltiorrhiza herbal pair, a classic combination for treating pancreatic cancer associated with qi deficiency and blood stasis. This study elucidates the therapeutic potential and mechanisms of FcS in the treatment of pancreatic cancer.A zebrafish xenograft model was used to screen bioactive combinations derived from A. mongholicus and S. miltiorrhiza, identifying FcS as a candidate with antitumor activity. Its efficacy was evaluated in vivo using the zebrafish model, orthotopic LSL-KrasG12D/+, LSL-Trp53R172H/+ and Pdx-1-Cre (KPC) mice, and subcutaneous xenograft models. Cell viability and proliferation were assessed using cell counting kit-8, 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine and colony formation assays, and migration and invasion were evaluated by wound healing and transwell assays. Membrane-bound O-acyltransferase 2 (MBOAT2) was identified as a potential target through a molecular docking study and the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) analysis. MBOAT2 knockdown cells were used to explore its roles and the Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) signaling pathway in FcS-mediated inhibition.In the zebrafish model, FcS strongly inhibited pancreatic tumor growth. FcS reduced tumor volume, the expression of proliferation marker Ki-67, and proliferating cell nuclear antigen in KPC mice. In vitro, FcS inhibited pancreatic cancer cell viability, proliferation, migration and invasion, which was accompanied by downregulation of MBOAT2 expression. TCGA analysis linked high MBOAT2 expression to aggressive phenotypes. MBOAT2 knockdown reduced the survival, proliferation and invasion of BxPC-3 cells. Rescue experiments revealed that MBOAT2 knockdown attenuated the antitumor effects of FcS, possibly through modulation of the JAK/STAT signaling pathway. FcS also inhibited tumor proliferation in xenograft models, and MBOAT2 expression was elevated in tumor tissues from pancreatic cancer patients.FcS suppresses pancreatic cancer progression via MBOAT2 downregulation and JAK/STAT pathway inhibition, which highlights MBOAT2 as a potential therapeutic target. Please cite this article as: Xu Y, Xu CS, Jin HB, Gu WG, Shen HZ, Lu L, Chen Y, Xu DC, Zhang XF, Yang JF, Wang Y. Targeting pancreatic cancer progression: The formononetin and salvianolic acid B combination suppresses JAK/STAT signaling via MBOAT2 downregulation. J Integr Med. 2026; Epub ahead of print.Copyright © 2026 Shanghai Yueyang Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Extreme metabolic phenotypes present unique opportunities to understand the participation of different organs in specific metabolite pathways. One such condition is the inherited metabolic disorder alkaptonuria (AKU), caused by mutations in the gene encoding the homogentisate 1,2-dioxygenase (HGD) enzyme. HGD is expressed in liver and kidney. In AKU, lack of functional HGD results in incomplete breakdown of the amino acid tyrosine and accumulation of homogentisic acid (HGA), the indicative metabolite in AKU. Here, we aimed to delineate the role of the kidney in production and metabolism of HGA. We generated for the first time a mouse with specific deletion of Hgd in the kidney but not in the liver, using Cre recombinase driven by Six2 (Six2GCiP), a transcription factor expressed early in kidney development. With intact liver HGD in this mouse, plasma HGA remained equivalent to wild-type concentrations. Minimal circulating HGA combined with no apparent renal HGD activity enabled us to unmask the portion of HGA produced locally within the kidney. Urine HGA (mean ± SEM) was > 100-fold lower in kidney-specific Hgd knockout mice (717 ± 129 μmol/L) compared to AKU mice (118 364 ± 8494 μmol/L) with complete liver and kidney knockout, but higher than wild-type controls (2.3 ± 0.1 μmol/L). Profiling of tyrosine pathway metabolic enzymes showed human and mouse kidney lack detectable tyrosine aminotransferase, a key enzyme involved in tyrosine-HGA metabolism. We demonstrate both tyrosine metabolism and HGA production are minimal in kidney compared to liver. The kidney is therefore not a viable target for HGA-lowering therapies aiming to restore HGD activity.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Molecular biomarkers are increasingly used for risk stratification, particularly in up-front surgery settings (Children's Oncology Group trials), whereas in preoperative chemotherapy setting, the ongoing International Society of Pediatric Oncology (SIOP)-Renal Tumor Study Group-2016 UMBRELLA study aims to validate selected biomarkers for future risk-adapted treatment strategies. This systematic review summarizes all literature on the prognostic value of these biomarkers.A systematic literature review (PubMed and Embase; up to January 2025) included studies with ≥50 de novo Wilms tumors (WTs). Eligible biomarkers included copy number variations; 1q gain, 1p and/or 16q loss of heterozygosity (LOH)/loss, 12 gain, 14q loss, 22 loss, 11p15 LOH/loss of imprinting (LOI), and structural somatic variants (TP53 [and/or 17p loss], MYCN, FBXW7, WT1, WTX, SIX1/SIX2, DROSHA, DGCR8, AMER1, CTNNB1, GPC3, MLLT1, DICER1, DIS3L2). Outcome included relapse-free survival, event-free survival (EFS), and overall survival (OS). Risk of bias was assessed with quality in prognosis studies tool.Low-bias multivariable/stratified analyses identified 1q gain as worse EFS and 1p and/or 16q LOH/loss as worse EFS/OS prognostic factors, in up-front nephrectomy settings. Preoperative chemotherapy settings revealed similar trends with lacking significance. TP53 and MYCN were adverse prognostic in univariate analyses. No prognostic data were available for the remaining variants.1q gain and 1p and/or 16q LOH/loss emerge as independent prognostic biomarkers in up-front nephrectomy settings. Evidence remains limited in preoperative chemotherapy settings, particularly when using SIOP-oriented treatment algorithms. Prognostic value of TP53, MYCN, and 11p15 LOH/LOI warrants further validation in both settings. This highlights the need for adequately powered prospective studies, specifically in the preoperative chemotherapy setting, to establish reliable molecular biomarkers.
Diabetes-associated cognitive dysfunction (DACD) is a severe neurological complication of type 2 diabetes. Impaired autophagic flux is a critical contributor to the progression of DACD. This study aimed to clarify how tripartite motif-containing 25 (TRIM25) regulates autophagy in DACD. To mimic the hyperglycemic environment of diabetes, HT22 hippocampal neurons were exposed to high glucose (HG). Autophagic flux was monitored using an RFP-GFP-LC3 reporter. Transcriptional regulation was evaluated using chromatin immunoprecipitation and a dual-luciferase reporter assay. Protein stability and ubiquitination were examined using a cycloheximide chase assay and co-immunoprecipitation. Protein abundance was determined by western blot, whereas mRNA levels were quantified by reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction. In HT22 hippocampal neurons exposed to HG, TRIM25 expression was significantly upregulated, whereas sine oculis homeobox 2 (SIX2) and sprouty-related EVH1 domain-containing protein 2 (SPRED2) expression was significantly downregulated. TRIM25 directly interacted with SIX2 and promoted its ubiquitination and degradation. Moreover, TRIM25 inhibited neuronal autophagy under HG conditions by targeting SIX2. SIX2 transcriptionally activated SPRED2 expression and subsequently inhibited extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) phosphorylation. HG-induced reductions in cell viability and autophagy were reversed by SIX2 overexpression but not when SPRED2 was simultaneously knocked down. TRIM25 reduces SPRED2 transcription by mediating the ubiquitination and degradation of SIX2, thereby exacerbating the suppression of neuronal autophagy under high-glucose conditions. This study identifies a novel TRIM25/SIX2/SPRED2/ERK axis through which hyperglycemia impairs neuronal autophagy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Trichorhinophalangeal syndrome type 1 (TRPS1), a novel GATA transcription factor, has emerged as a sensitive and largely breast-specific marker across various carcinoma subtypes, including metastatic tumors. However, its specificity in adrenal neoplasms has not been explored. Given the prevalence of adrenal cortical and medullary neoplasms, alongside metastatic breast carcinoma, we aimed to investigate the diagnostic specificity of TRPS1 in a cohort of adrenal lesions. Semi-quantitative immunohistochemical expression for TRPS1 was compared to GATA3 and mammaglobin in 64 adrenal cortical lesions (4 adrenal rests, 6 adrenal cortical hyperplasia, 43 adrenal cortical adenomas, 4 adrenal cortical neoplasms of uncertain malignant potential, 7 adrenal cortical carcinomas) and 35 pheochromocytomas using tissue microarray technology. TRPS1 staining was absent in all pheochromocytomas and adrenal cortical lesions. Moderate to strong nuclear GATA3 positivity was identified in the majority of pheochromocytomas (77%), while only a small subset of adrenal cortical lesions (4%) demonstrated moderate to weak nuclear staining. Mammaglobin was negative in adrenal cortical lesions, although focal patchy positivity was seen in 6% of pheochromocytomas. When characterizing adrenal gland lesions in the context of metastatic breast carcinoma, TRPS1 demonstrates excellent specificity, showing no immunohistochemical expression in primary adrenal lesions. Mammaglobin, while largely specific (94%), offers limited diagnostic value due to occasional focal, non-specific staining in pheochromocytomas. In contrast, GATA3 lacks diagnostic specificity, as it is frequently expressed in pheochromocytomas and occasionally in adrenal cortical lesions, restricting its utility in this setting. Overall, TRPS1 emerges as the preferred marker for routine diagnostic practice in this setting.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Objective: To investigate the clinicopathological features, immunophenotype, and molecular characteristics of sweat gland carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation (SCAND). Methods: Three cases of SCAND diagnosed at the Department of Pathology, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, China from June 2022 to June 2025 were collected. Hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining and immunohistochemistry (EnVision method) were performed to characterize morphologic and immunophenotypic features. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) was utilized to explore their molecular pathological characteristics. Results: All three patients were male, aged 67, 63, and 48 years, respectively. The primary tumors presented as solitary nodules or masses located in the lower abdomen, anterior chest wall, or inguinal region, with a maximum diameter of 2.0, 1.3, and 1.8 cm, respectively. Histologically, the tumors were situated primarily within the dermis, invading the epidermis and subcutaneous tissue, with focal mucin production. The tumor cells were arranged in nests, cords, and sieve-like patterns, exhibiting mild to moderate atypia. The nuclei were round to oval with coarsely granular chromatin and relatively inconspicuous nucleoli, accompanied by eosinophilic cytoplasm. Mitotic figures were scarce. All cases were positive for CK7, GATA3, TRPS1, Ber-EP4, epithelial membrane antigen, estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, and the neuroendocrine markers of synaptophysin and chromogranin A. The tumors were negative for p40 and HER2. The Ki-67 proliferation index ranged from 2% to 30%. Multiple class Ⅲ and Ⅳ variants were identified by NGS analysis in cases 1 and 2. In case 3, a class Ⅱ variant, specifically an SF3B1 missense mutation, was identified along with multiple class Ⅲ and Ⅳ variants. Additionally, multiple germline variants were detected in all three cases, while none of them were classified as pathogenic or likely pathogenic. The patients were followed up for 13, 37 and 155 months, respectively. Metastases were detected 6, 36, and 96 months after diagnosis. Case 2 showed local metastasis, while cases 1 and 3 developed multiple nodal and bone metastases. Conclusions: SCAND is a rare cutaneous adnexal neoplasm characterized by co-expression of sweat gland and neuroendocrine markers. Despite low-grade morphology, it follows a non-indolent clinical course warranting close clinical attention.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42536278 is a review article
To develop and validate a histology-based model for predicting a stromal stiffness-related molecular surrogate in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) and to assess its spatial biological plausibility.A stromal stiffness score was defined from COL12A1, LOX, and LOXL2 expression. Candidate genes were derived from two independent PDAC chemotherapy-response studies, refined by Cox-LASSO regularization, and filtered using survival analysis in the TCGA-PAAD cohort. StRoMA, an encoder-decoder Transformer framework with three feature encoders, was trained on 206 H&E whole-slide images from 178 TCGA cases and externally validated on 492 slides from 153 CPTAC cases. Spatial concordance was evaluated using independent Visium HD data, with Tangram-based fibroblast mapping used for sensitivity analysis.In internal validation, UNI achieved the best performance, with a Spearman correlation of 0.655 and an AUC of 0.811. In CPTAC external validation, CONCH showed the strongest generalization for predefined labels, with a Spearman correlation of 0.458 and an AUC of 0.744. In spatial validation, CONCH attention was most concordant with the three-gene transcriptomic score (Spearman correlation = 0.211; permutation P = 0.002), exceeding myofibroblast and inflammatory CAF programs. Tangram-derived fibroblast mapping did not reproduce this spatial signal.Routine H&E histology encodes morphologic information related to ECM remodeling and stromal stiffness in PDAC. This three-gene histology-derived phenotype represents a candidate biomarker for future translational studies of stromal remodeling and therapeutic relevance in PDAC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Rare variants in SETD1A, encoding a histone H3K4 methyltransferase, are among the strongest genetic risk factors for schizophrenia. Exome sequencing (n=3,736) revealed a population-enriched SETD1A missense variant (P596L) in the Lancaster Old Order Amish founder population, presenting a unique opportunity to elucidate variant-specific, multi-scale mechanisms. Psychiatric and cognitive phenotyping revealed nearly two-fold increased risk for bipolar disorder, accompanied by allele dose-dependent cognitive deficits in adulthood. Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) from homozygous carriers exhibited signatures of SETD1A hypofunction, including reduced proliferation and heightened susceptibility to replication stress and DNA double-strand breaks. During forebrain-directed differentiation, homozygous mutant cells displayed premature activation of neurodevelopmental transcriptional programs but impaired neural rosette formation, reduced neurite complexity, and early progenitor senescence. Multi-omic profiling revealed dysregulation of gene modules converging on replication stress pathways and neuronal regulatory networks enriched for autism and psychiatric risk genes. Pharmacologic inhibition of the H3K4 demethylase KDM5 partially rescued replication stress and neurite deficits, supporting an epigenetic mechanism and suggesting therapeutic tractability. Together, these findings link a population-enriched missense variant to disrupted chromatin regulation, genome stability, and neurodevelopmental timing, bridging human genetic risk with cellular pathophysiology.
Transcriptional remodelling during fasting ensures metabolic adaptation and provides health benefits across species. Although several regulators of fasting-induced transcription and chromatin are known, how nutrient levels directly influence RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) and epigenetic writers remains unclear. Here we show that lipid kinase class 3 phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K-3), a master regulator of autophagy, also functions on chromatin as a co-activator of epigenetic writers to promote RNAPII transcription. PI3K-3 overlaps with transcriptionally engaged RNAPII phosphorylated at Ser5 and with Setd1a/COMPASS, the complex that deposits the activating H3K4me3 mark. Nuclear PI3K-3 interacts with RNAPII and Setd1a/COMPASS and promotes their chromatin binding. PI3K-3 loss reduces RNAPII-S5p and H3K4me3 at selected genes, whereas PI3K-3 overexpression co-activates p300/CBP and chromatin-targeted PI3K-3 increases H3K4me3. During starvation, PI3K-3 induces autophagy genes and drives fasted liver towards ketogenesis and lipid degradation. These findings link nutrient stress to chromatin-mediated transcriptional activation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Glycolytic metabolism promotes an immunosuppressive microenvironment in HCC, but its role in immunotherapy resistance is unclear. Patients with HCC with high 18F-FDG uptake on PET/CT show reduced anti-PD-1 response. High glycolysis-driven H3K18la levels correlate with immunotherapy resistance, limited CD8+ T cell infiltration, and poor prognosis. Inhibiting H3K18la suppresses HCC progression and enhances CD8+ T cell antitumor immunity. Mechanistically, H3K18la increases chromatin accessibility at TRPS1 and ETV1 promoters, upregulating their transcription. TRPS1 reinforces glycolysis and GLUT1-mediated resistance to CD8+ T cell bystander killing, while ETV1-driven CCL2 creates an immunosuppressive niche limiting CD8+ T cell accumulation. Triple combination of the GLUT1 inhibitor BAY-876, anti-CCL2 antibody, and anti-PD-1 antibody potentiates CD8+ T cell antitumor immunity. The H3K18la-TRPS1/ETV1-GLUT1/CCL2 axis serves as a biomarker for immunotherapy resistance, and disrupting this axis sensitizes HCC to immunotherapy.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510656 is a review article
Cutaneous melanoma remains the most lethal skin cancer due to profound tumor heterogeneity and the frequent development of resistance to current therapies. Here, we identify the cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1 (CysLT1R) as a previously unrecognized driver of melanoma progression. Analysis of bulk RNA-sequencing datasets from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) revealed significantly elevated CysLT1R transcript in metastatic tumors compared to primary tumors. Functional studies in murine and human melanoma cells demonstrated that leukotriene D4 (LTD4)-mediated activation of CysLT1R promotes melanoma cell proliferation and invasion through the parallel engagement of YAP and ERK signaling pathways. Notably, melanoma cells express LTC4 synthase and secrete cysteinyl leukotrienes, establishing a constitutive autocrine signaling loop that sustains CysLT1R activity independently of the host niche. Genetic ablation or pharmacological inhibition of CysLT1R with MK571 significantly attenuated tumor growth in vivo and was associated with inhibition of the YAP-LOXL-2 signaling axis. In addition, studies using Cysltr1-/- mice reveal that host-derived CysLT1R signaling within the tumor microenvironment also contributes to melanoma progression. Together, these findings uncover a previously unrecognized pro-tumorigenic CysLT1R-ERK/YAP,LOXL-2 signaling circuit that promotes cutaneous melanoma progression and highlight CysLT1R as a potential therapeutic target for melanoma.© 2026. The Author(s).
SET Domain Containing 1A (SETD1A) is a histone H3K4 methyltransferase implicated in neurodevelopmental disorders. Pathogenic variants in this gene are associated with schizophrenia, intellectual disability, and epilepsy. Here, whole-exome sequencing and Sanger sequencing were performed on a 4-year-old Chinese girl with early-onset epilepsy and her unaffected parents. A novel de novo heterozygous variant in SETD1A (NM_014712.3: c.1067C > T/p.Ser356Phe) was identified in a patient presenting with focal-to-bilateral tonic-clonic seizures, beginning at 3 months of age. Neuroimaging revealed a normal brain MRI, and comprehensive neuropsychological assessment indicated preserved cognitive function. The variant was absent in 200 local controls and classified as likely pathogenic per ACMG criteria. This study may expand the mutation and phenotypic spectrum of SETD1A-related disorders, establishing the relationship between SETD1A variants and isolated early-onset epilepsy without accompanying severe neurodevelopmental deficits, highlighting the value of genetic testing in infants with unexplained epilepsy.Copyright © 2026 Su, Zhu, Jiang, Li and Fan.
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) is a heterogeneous inflammatory disease with variable outcomes following functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS). Predictive biomarkers for post-FESS CRSwNP recurrence remain poorly defined.Identify tissue-based predictors of CRSwNP recurrence after FESS and assess dupilumab-induced modifications.From a cohort of patients with CRSwNP (including NSAID-exacerbated respiratory disease [NSAID-ERD]) who underwent FESS, we retrospectively identified 91 who could be dichotomized by clinical outcome as post-FESS "rapid recurrence" (<1 year) or "slow/no recurrence" (>2 years without recurrence). Nasal polyp tissue was analyzed for 69 inflammatory mediators using proteomics and ELISA. Logistic regression with LASSO feature selection identified candidate predictors. In an independent, second prospective cohort of 17 CRSwNP patients initiating dupilumab, nasal fluid was collected at baseline and after two months of dupilumab and profiled for the same mediators.Twenty-three tissue mediators strongly predicted rapid CRSwNP recurrence (AUC >0.70), including markers of type (T) 2 inflammation (IL-4, IL-13, IL-5Rα, ECP, IgE) and innate inflammation and/or myeloid involvement (CCL3/4/7/8/13, CSF2, IL-1β, IL-6, OSM, MMP12, HIF-1α, TNF-α, TNFSF14). Of these, dupilumab significantly reduced IL-5Rα and several chemokines (CCL3, CCL4, CCL13) but had no effect on key myeloid mediators (CCL8, CSF2, IL-1β, MMP12, HIF-1α).Both T2 and non-T2 mediators play a role in rapid post-FESS recurrence in CRSwNP. T2 blockade with dupilumab reduces T2-associated mediators but does not suppress a parallel innate/myeloid inflammatory axis. The persistence of this axis during treatment suggests that innate and myeloid mediators may underlie severe CRSwNP and could influence disease recurrence once T2 signaling is no longer inhibited, representing potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets to improve long-term disease control.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) is a globally important commercial crop, largely due to the accumulation of nicotine, a parasympathomimetic alkaloid that contributes to its economic value and ecological fitness. While the nicotine biosynthetic pathway has been well characterized, its transcriptional regulation remains incompletely understood. MYB transcription factors are established regulators of plant secondary metabolism, particularly flavonoid biosynthesis; however, their role in nicotine biosynthesis remains unexplored. Here, we demonstrate that the Arabidopsis R2R3-MYB transcription factors AtMYB11, AtMYB12, and AtMYB111 function as positive regulators of nicotine biosynthesis in tobacco for the first time. Overexpression of these MYBs led to significant upregulation of key nicotine pathway genes, including NtPMT, NtODC, NtQPT, NtMPO, NtBBL, and NtA622, resulting in increased nicotine accumulation in both seedlings and mature plants. Notably, AtMYB111 exhibited the strongest regulatory effect. Promoter analysis revealed the presence of MYB-responsive elements in NtODC and NtQPT, and both transient expression assays and yeast one-hybrid studies confirmed direct binding of AtMYB111 to these promoters. Furthermore, exogenous application of an MYB11/12/111-derived complementary peptide (cPEP) recapitulated the induction of nicotine biosynthesis, supporting a functional role of MYB-mediated regulation. Functionally, increased nicotine and flavonoid levels in MYB-overexpressing lines conferred enhanced resistance to the fungal pathogen Alternaria solani and the herbivore Helicoverpa armigera, indicating a direct link between MYB-regulated metabolism and plant defense. Collectively, this study uncovers a previously unrecognized role of these MYB transcription factors in alkaloid biosynthesis and highlights their potential for metabolic engineering of nicotine content and stress resilience in tobacco.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Celery (Apium graveolens L.), an important green leafy vegetable in the Apiaceae family, is rich in various nutrients including dietary fiber. Cellulose is a major component of the celery cell walls and serves as the primary substrate for saccharification. Here, we characterized a cellulose synthase, AgCESA5, that positively regulates cellulose accumulation in celery. The AgCESA5 protein was localized in the plasma membrane. Homologous overexpression of AgCESA5 in 'Jinnan Shiqin' celery revealed increased cellulose content in the petioles of transgenic plants and a looser structural texture of parenchyma cell walls. Furthermore, we identified two R2R3-MYB transcription factors, designated AgMYB59 and AgMYB6, that physically bind to the AgCESA5 promoter, as validated by yeast one-hybrid and dual-luciferase reporter assays. Both AgMYB6 and AgMYB59 exhibited transcriptional activation activity and were localized to the nucleus. In the petioles of five celery cultivars, the relative expression levels of AgMYB59 and AgMYB6 showed expression patterns highly consistent with that of AgCESA5 at both 70 and 100 days after germination. Collectively, these results indicate that AgCESA5 is involved in celery cellulose synthesis. AgMYB59 and AgMYB6 may play important roles in cellulose biosynthesis as regulators of AgCESA5.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
The resin of masson pine (Pinus massoniana L.) exhibits considerable economic value and primarily consists of diterpenoid resin acids. However, the upstream regulation of the key diterpene biosynthetic gene, PmLAS, remains largely unclear. In the present study, through yeast one-hybrid screening, three PmMYB transcription factors were identified: PmMYB30, PmMYB68, and PmMYB74. Subsequent verification through dual-luciferase assays substantiated that these transcription factors interact with the PmLAS promoter, thereby facilitating its transcriptional activation. Subcellular localization analysis indicated that all three PmMYBs are localized in the nucleus, and transcriptional activation assays in yeast further revealed that their C-terminal regions are responsible for the transcriptional activation activity. Meanwhile, the transcript levels of three PmMYBs exhibited a significant positive correlation with resin yield in the xylem of 12-year-old masson pine trees. Moreover, the heterologous overexpression of these genes in tobacco resulted in a growth-inhibiting phenotype, a marked increase in leaf glandular trichome numbers, and an elevated proportion of diterpenoids compared to wild-type tobacco. To further elucidate the molecular regulation of the PmLAS gene by the transcription factor PmMYB30, yeast two-hybrid library screening was performed to screen its interacting proteins. A RING-type E3 ubiquitin ligase was identified from the screening results and designated PmRDUF1. Subsequent luciferase complementation imaging assays provided further evidence supporting the interaction between PmRDUF1 and PmMYB30. Furthermore, dual-luciferase reporter assays demonstrated that this interaction suppresses the ability of PmMYB30 to activate the expression of PmLAS, forming a PmRDUF1-PmMYB30-PmLAS regulatory module. Collectively, our findings suggest that a complex transcriptional network governs diterpenoid biosynthesis in masson pine, offering new perspectives on the regulation of terpenoid metabolism.© 2026 Scandinavian Plant Physiology Society.
Genetic tumour heterogeneity, driven by clonal evolution, contributes to therapy resistance in many cancers. Most salivary gland cancers, including adenoid cystic carcinoma (AdCC) and myoepithelial carcinoma (MECA), lack effective systemic treatments, highlighting the need to characterise their evolutionary profiles. In this autopsy study, we reconstructed genetic heterogeneity and clonal evolution in two patients with metastatic AdCC and one patient with metastatic MECA. Radiology-guided autopsy was performed between 12 and 56 h after out-of-hospital death. One hundred forty-nine tumour samples were snap-frozen, of which 17 (4-7 per patient) were selected for whole-genome sequencing. Phylogenetic reconstruction was performed using CONIPHER. Autopsy revealed multiple metastatic sites not visible on antemortem or postmortem imaging. MYB-NFIB gene fusions were present across all tumour sites from the two AdCC patients, while a LIFR-PLAG1 fusion was detected in all samples from the MECA patient. All three cases showed extensive genetic tumour heterogeneity and branched phylogenies, suggestive of parallel evolution. Histologic growth patterns were consistent across metastatic sites. Overall, this study demonstrated marked genetic heterogeneity and branched evolution in these AdCC and MECA patients.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Oncology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Gibberellin (GA) promotes seed germination, but sustained or excessive GA signaling after germination can lead to aberrant root and shoot elongation. How GA homeostasis is transcriptionally restrained during post-germinative seedling development remains unclear. Using overexpression and gene-edited maize materials, we demonstrate that ZmMYB59 inhibits root and shoot elongation during post-germinative growth. Integrated RNA-Seq and CUT&Tag analyses identified the GA catabolism genes ZmGA2ox3 and ZmGA2ox10 as candidate direct targets of ZmMYB59. Hormone profiling analysis showed elevated bioactive GA1 and GA4 levels in the scutellum and aleurone layer cells of zmmyb59 mutants. Dual-luciferase assays, electrophoretic mobility shift assays, and ChIP-qPCR further confirmed that ZmMYB59 directly binds AC8 cis-elements in the ZmGA2ox3/10 promoters and activates their transcription. The zmga2ox3/10 double mutant, but neither single mutant, exhibited enhanced root and shoot elongation, accompanied by GA4 accumulation. This phenotype was suppressed by exogenous application of the GA biosynthesis inhibitor uniconazole. Transcriptomic and biochemical analyses further revealed enhanced starch degradation, reduced starch content, and increased soluble sugar accumulation in the double mutant. Taken together, these findings reveal that the ZmMYB59-ZmGA2ox3/10 module restrains GA accumulation and starch mobilization after germination, thereby coordinating reserve utilization with post-germinative root and shoot growth in maize.© 2026 The Author(s). New Phytologist © 2026 New Phytologist Foundation.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563016 is a review article
The infrapatellar fat pad (IFP) is increasingly recognized as an active contributor to knee osteoarthritis (KOA) pathogenesis. However, age-related transcriptional changes in the IFP remain poorly understood, and whether observed differences are purely age-dependent or confounded by disease status is unclear. This study aimed to compare transcriptomic profiles of the IFP between young patients with traumatic knee injury and older patients with KOA.IFP samples were obtained from three young trauma patients (21-28 years, KL grade 0) and three older patients with KOA (64-72 years, KL grade III-IV). Bulk RNA sequencing was performed to compare transcriptomes between groups. Differential expression was analyzed with DESeq2 (|log2FC| ≥1, unadjusted p < 0.05), followed by GO and KEGG pathway enrichment. Real-time PCR confirmed key expression changes.Compared with the young trauma group, the old KOA group exhibited 247 upregulated (CSN1S1, SCN9A, P2RY14, EIF3C, etc) and 334 downregulated genes (PI15, WISP3, DMKN, NUTM2G, etc). The old KOA group exhibited significantly reduced expression of extracellular matrix (ECM) genes, including COL1A1, COL2A1, and FN1. Additionally, core genes of the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, such as AKT1, ITGA2B, and MYB, were also downregulated in the old KOA group.The IFP in old KOA exhibits a transcriptomic profile characterized by dampened ECM structural gene expression and suppressed PI3K-Akt signaling compared with young trauma patients. While confounded by injury status, these findings suggest that age-related loss of ECM integrity may contribute to IFP dysfunction in established KOA and warrant validation in healthy aging cohorts.
High-temperature stress caused by global warming can induce leaf senescence, which adversely affects plant growth and agricultural productivity worldwide. However, the molecular mechanism of high temperature-induced leaf senescence remains largely unexplored. In this study, a Stay-green-like protein (PlSGRL) that regulates chlorophyll degradation was identified in herbaceous peony (Paeonia lactiflora Pall.). PlSGRL was localized to the chloroplasts, and its expression was upregulated under high-temperature stress. Virus-induced PlSGRL silencing markedly delayed high temperature-induced leaf senescence in P. lactiflora, as evidenced by higher chlorophyll content, sustained photosystem II efficiency, and alleviated oxidative damage-reflected in reduced malondialdehyde content, relative electrical conductivity, and reactive oxygen species accumulation. Conversely, PlSGRL overexpression accelerated high temperature-induced leaf senescence. Subsequently, we identified an atypical MYB transcription factor, PlMYB3RL, that directly promoted PlSGRL expression. PlMYB3RL was localized to the nucleus, and its expression was also upregulated under high-temperature stress. Similarly, PlMYB3RL silencing significantly delayed high temperature-induced leaf senescence. Additionally, PlMYB3RL formed a homodimer through self-interaction, and this homodimer enhanced the transcriptional activation of PlSGRL in a dose-dependent manner. Collectively, these data demonstrate that the PlMYB3RL homodimer activates PlSGRL expression to promote chlorophyll degradation and leaf senescence under high-temperature stress in P. lactiflora. These findings reveal a novel regulatory module underlying high temperature-induced leaf senescence in P. lactiflora, providing key gene resources and theoretical support for breeding high-temperature-resistant cultivars.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nanjing Agricultural University.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558722 is a review article
Disulfidptosis is a form of regulated cell death triggered by disulfide stress resulting from glucose starvation. The capacity to evade disulfidptosis is crucial for tumour cells to withstand glucose-limited environments. Here we demonstrate that OGDH, a rate-limiting enzyme in citric acid cycle, is critical for conferring resistance to disulfidptosis. High expression of HSPA9 in melanoma protects OGDH from glucose deprivation-induced oxidative inactivation, thereby ensuring OGDH-generated succinyl-CoA for METTL3 succinylation. Succinylated METTL3 recognizes m6A modification on NRF2 mRNA to license NRF2 translation, TrxR1 expression and subsequent evasion of disulfidptosis. Combined suppression of HSPA9 and glucose uptake inhibits melanoma growth in mouse models. In patients with melanoma, expressions of HSPA9 and OGDH negatively correlate with the disulfidptosis signature and are associated with an unfavourable clinical prognosis. Therefore, our findings not only highlight the dependence of melanoma cells on the HSPA9-OGDH-METTL3-NRF2 axis for disulfidptosis evasion, but also propose a combined intervention strategy for melanoma therapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
The expansion and pathogenic differentiation of intermediate monocytes (IMs) are critical yet poorly understood events in psoriasis pathogenesis. Here, we identify the transcription factor PU.1 (encoded by SPI1) as a master regulator driving IM-mediated psoriasiform inflammation. Single-cell RNA sequencing and flow cytometry of peripheral blood mononuclear cells revealed expansion of IMs in psoriasis patients, with PU.1 uncovered as its specific regulator. Myeloid-specific ablation of Spi1 in mice ameliorated imiquimod-induced psoriasiform dermatitis. Mechanistically, PU.1 promoted IMs differentiation into pro-inflammatory M1 macrophages by transcriptionally upregulating Dectin-1, thereby activating the SYK/NF-κB pathway. We further discovered that the clinical-stage bromodomain and extra-terminal domain inhibitor NHWD-870 effectively suppressed PU.1 expression. Oral administration of NHWD-870 demonstrated potent efficacy in murine psoriasis models by disrupting this PU.1-dependent IMs differentiation. Our findings establish PU.1 as a novel therapeutic target for psoriasis and propose that pharmacologic inhibition of PU.1 represents a promising treatment strategy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
DLL4-NOTCH1 signaling mediates juxtacrine communication between tip- and stalk-like endothelial cells during vascular sprouting, contributing to complementary aspects of endothelial function. Thus, simultaneous modulation of DLL4 and NOTCH1 may provide a strategy to broadly interfere with the endothelial functions involved in tumor angiogenesis. Accordingly, this study aimed to identify a novel natural compound capable of modulating DLL4-NOTCH1-mediated endothelial communication and to investigate how such modulation influences tumor angiogenesis and growth.We screened 66 natural compounds to identify those that suppress DLL4 and NOTCH1 signaling in endothelial cells. Using a dual-reporter system that combines a DLL4 promoter-driven reporter and a CSL luciferase reporter, we simultaneously assessed ligand-associated activity and downstream transcriptional output of the DLL4-NOTCH1 axis. We confirmed VEGF-induced target gene expression via Western blotting and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. We further performed in vitro angiogenesis assays and in vivo Lewis lung carcinoma (LLC) allograft tumor experiments.Among the 66 screened natural compounds, para-coumaric acid (p-CA) dose-dependently suppressed DLL4 transcription and NOTCH1 signaling activity in endothelial cells, with IC50 values of 4.57 and 8.34 µm, respectively. Furthermore, p-CA significantly suppressed VEGF-induced endothelial cell proliferation, migration, and tube formation. In the LLC allograft model, p-CA treatment suppressed tumor growth and vascular density, increased pericyte coverage, reduced tumor hypoxia, and enhanced CD3+ T-cell infiltration and tumor cell apoptosis.In summary, p-CA is a natural compound that functionally suppresses VEGF-driven DLL4-NOTCH1 signaling in endothelial cells, exhibiting strong anti-angiogenic effects and promoting functional vascular normalization, resulting in marked tumor suppression and enhanced antitumor immunity in vivo. These findings suggest that p-CA warrants further investigation as an anti-angiogenic compound for cancer therapy.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Tumor-induced manipulations of myelomonocytic differentiation have been widely reported. Here, we describe the elicitation of a tumor-supportive cell type in a T lymphoma model in mice. We observed that the development of T lymphoma coincided with the appearance of a lymphoma-associated monocytic cell type (LAM) of host origin accompanied by a diminished dendritic cell (DC) population. RNA-sequencing and cytometric analyses revealed that LAMs shared markers with both DCs and with resident macrophages, most closely resembling monocyte-derived DCs (moDCs). The numbers of T lymphoma cells were negatively affected by reducing LAMs suggesting a helper function of LAMs for tumor growth. LAMs expressed Notch ligands, and treatments of lymphoma-carrying mice with Notch signaling-inhibitors LY3039478 and DAPT selectively decreased expansions of T lymphomas with or without Notch1 mutations, respectively. Mature LAMs did not proliferate in the periphery. Instead, their expansion resulted from altered myelomonocytic differentiation in the bone marrows of lymphoma-carrying mice with increases in common monocyte/DC precursors but with reduced granulocyte, monocyte and DC precursor populations. These data suggest that developing T lymphomas are capable of reprogramming monocyte/DC differentiation to increase the numbers of a tumor-promoting DC type, attract it to tumor locations and may engage in Notch ligand-dependent signaling to support lymphoma survival.
Microglia are key players in Alzheimer's disease, but the transcriptional control of their phagocytic function remains unclear. Kim et al. show that mouse microglial Spi1 deletion worsens amyloid pathology by impairing Aβ clearance through Syk, Lyn, and Fcgr1, providing new insight into PU.1-dependent regulatory networks and microglial functions in neurodegeneration.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42545144 is a review article
The involvement of oxidative stress (OS) in pre-eclampsia (PE) has been reported, and the present study probed into the OS-related feature genes in PE.The dataset GSE60438 was used to identify the OS-related features in PE, and corresponding feature genes were identified using machine learning algorithms including weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) regression analysis and support vector machine-recursive feature elimination (SVM-RFE). The diagnostic value of the feature genes and their correlation with immune infiltration were explored. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was performed to identify enriched pathways of these genes. Furthermore, regulatory networks involving the feature genes were constructed. The role of these genes in hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R)-induced trophoblasts was investigated.Two WGCNA-identified modules (MEpurple and MEturquoise) were intersected with OS-related genes, yielding 359 common genes. Through machine learning algorithms and expression validation, three genes (CPT1A, CYGB and MRPL3) were identified and used to establish a diagnostic model, which reached an AUC of 0.930. The transcription factor (TF) SPI1 and multiple miRNAs formed a potential regulatory network for CPT1A, CYGB and MRPL3, and the expression of these three genes was closely associated with the infiltration of various immune cells (such as monocytes and macrophages M1) in PE. Cellular experiments confirmed that CPT1A silencing alleviated trophoblast dysfunction, reduced reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, and decreased apoptosis under H/R conditions.The present study examined the OS features in PE, hoping to contribute to the management of PE.©2026 Chen and Wu.
This study aimed to investigate the mechanism by which Xinfeng Capsules(XFC), a traditional Chinese medicine preparation, ameliorates interstitial lung disease(ILD) in adjuvant arthritis(AA) model rats. It exerts the effect by regulating the adsorption of microRNA155(miR155) by metastasis-associated lung adenocarcinoma transcript 1(MALAT1), thereby ameliorating the abnormal expression of miR155 and subsequently modulating the neurogenic locus Notch homolog protein(Notch)-recombination signal binding protein for immunoglobulin kappa J region(RBP-Jκ) signaling pathway. An AA rat model was established, and after intragastric administration of XFC, pharmacodynamic evaluation was conducted on rats in each group, including arthritis index scoring, paw swelling measurement, pulmonary function test, and histopathological examinations of lung tissue and ankle joint synovium. ELISA was used to detect the levels of related inflammatory cytokines. RT-qPCR was performed to determine the expression levels of long non-coding RNA(lncRNA) MALAT1, miR155 and genes related to the Notch-RBP-Jκ signaling pathway, while Western blot was applied to examine the protein expression of ETS transcription factor-1(ETS-1) and RBP-Jκ. The results showed that, compared with the model group, XFC significantly improved pulmonary function, alleviated paw swelling, and inhibited fibrous hyperplasia and inflammatory cell infiltration in synovial and lung tissue of AA rats. It also reduced the serum levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), interleukin-1β(IL-1β) and interleukin-6(IL-6), thereby alleviating the systemic inflammatory responses. In addition, XFC ameliorated the aberrant expression of lncRNA MALAT1 and miR155, inhibited the transcription of Notch homolog 1(Notch1), Jagged canonical Notch ligand 1(Jagged1), nuclear factor of activated T cells cytoplasmic 1(NFATC1) and interferon regulatory factor 8(IRF8), and further promoted the protein expression of ETS-1 while suppressing RBP-Jκ protein expression. In summary, XFC may exert its effects by enhancing the roles of lncRNA MALAT1 as a molecular sponge to adsorb miR155, thereby inhibiting the aberrant expression of miR155, which in turn modulates the overactivation and transcription of the Notch-RBP-Jκ signaling pathway, suppresses the articular inflammatory response and ameliorates ILD lesions in AA rats.
This study aimed to explore the mechanism by which psoralen regulates the neurogenic gene homologous protein(Notch)/zinc-finger transcription factors(Snail) pathway to inhibit liver metastasis of colorectal cancer. SW480 cells were allocated into a blank control group, low-, medium-, and high-concentration psoralen groups, and a high-concentration psoralen + Notch activator(Jagged1) group. The cell migration, invasion, mRNA levels of matrix metalloproteinase(MMP)-2, MMP-9, epithelial cadherin(E-cadherin), neural cadherin(N-cadherin), and protein levels of Notch1 and Snail were measured. Mice were assigned into a normal group, a model group, low-, medium-, and high-dose psoralen groups, a 5-fluorouracil(5-FU) group, and a high-dose psoralen + Jagged1 group, with 12 mice in each group. Liver metastasis in mice was examined via in vivo imaging. The liver weight, number of surface nodules, liver tissue pathology, and the above mRNA and protein levels were examined. The safety of psoralen was evaluated. The results showed that compared with the blank control group, psoralen decreased the scratch healing rate, number of invasive cells, mRNA levels of MMP-2, MMP-9, and N-cadherin, and protein levels of Notch1 and Snail, while increasing the mRNA level of E-cadherin in a concentration-dependent manner. In animal experiments, compared with the model group, the low-, medium-, and high-dose psoralen groups and the 5-FU group showed alleviated pathological damage in the liver tissue, reduced region of interest(ROI) values of liver fluorescence area, liver weight, number of surface nodules, mRNA levels of MMP-2, MMP-9, and N-cadherin, and protein levels of Notch1 and Snail but increased mRNA level of E-cadherin. Moreover, psoralen functioned in a dose-dependent manner. Jagged1 reversed the inhibitory effect of high-dose psoralen on liver metastasis of colorectal cancer in mice. Psoralen did not cause significant toxicity to hematopoietic, liver, or kidney functions at the tested doses. In conclusion, psoralen may inhibit liver metastasis of colorectal cancer by suppressing the Notch/Snail pathway.
Although cullin-family E3 ubiquitin ligases regulate diverse oncogenic pathways, the role of CACUL1 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains poorly characterized.We performed pan-cancer expression and survival analysis using TCGA and GEO databases, validated findings through immunohistochemistry, and conducted functional studies in HCC cell lines using CRISPR-mediated CACUL1 knockout. Transcriptome sequencing, functional assays (CCK-8, wound-healing, transwell invasion), and single-cell RNA-sequencing were performed to elucidate mechanisms.Pan-cancer analysis identified CACUL1 overexpression in HCC and gastric cancer (P < 0.001), with prognostic significance in 16 tumor types, including HCC (log-rank P < 0.01). CACUL1 expression independently predicted poor HCC prognosis (multivariable Cox, P < 0.05) and correlated with advanced clinicopathological features and reduced immune checkpoint expression. CACUL1 knockout inhibited HCC cell proliferation and migration but not invasion, with transcriptomic analysis revealing PI3K/AKT signaling pathway enrichment. Co-culture experiments demonstrated that CACUL1 promotes M2 macrophage polarization through Notch1 suppression, with pharmacological Notch inhibition phenocopying this effect.CACUL1 functions as a dual-axis oncogenic driver in HCC through enhanced tumor cell proliferation associated with PI3K/AKT signaling and immune evasion via Notch1-dependent macrophage polarization, positioning it as a candidate prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Tan, Wang and Kong.
Sepsis is a life-threatening syndrome characterized by dysregulated immune responses, while the molecular basis of immune dysfunction remains unclear. Increasing evidence suggests that R-loop accumulation and DNA damage may contribute to immune disorders, but their roles in sepsis have not been systematically investigated.Four GEO microarray datasets were integrated after batch-effect correction and normalization. Differential expression analysis and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) were performed to identify sepsis-related genes. Overlapping R-loop-related genes (RLRGs) were obtained by intersecting differentially expressed genes, key module genes, and curated RLRGs. Machine learning was then applied to prioritize hub genes and construct an optimal diagnostic model, which was validated in external cohorts. A nomogram, single-cell RNA-sequencing analysis, survival analysis, and in vivo/in vitro experiments were further used for validation.Five overlapping RLRGs (EXOSC4, GADD45A, HMGB2, LDHA, and PRKDC) were identified, and all were consistently retained by top-performing machine learning models, supporting their robustness. The five-gene nomogram showed good calibration and clinical utility. Single-cell analysis revealed cell-type-specific expression across neutrophils, monocytes, and T cells. Among the five genes, only GADD45A was significantly associated with poor survival. Experimental validation showed that GADD45A was upregulated in a CLP-induced sepsis mouse model. In HL-60 cells, GADD45A silencing reduced LPS-induced inflammatory cytokine expression, R-loop accumulation, and DNA damage.GADD45A is a promising biomarker for the diagnosis and prognosis of sepsis and may promote disease progression by enhancing R-loop accumulation and DNA damage.Copyright © 2026 by the Shock Society.
Hypoxic pulmonary hypertension (HPH), a severe complication of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, features pulmonary vascular remodeling driven by dysregulated pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cell (PASMC) apoptosis, with limited therapies like vasodilators offering only modest hemodynamic benefits. This study aimed to elucidate the role of Midkine (MK) in regulating PASMC apoptosis via the Notch2 pathway and its potential as a novel anti-remodeling target in HPH progression.The experimental approach involved cellular and animal models. In vitro, PASMCs were exposed to hypoxia (1% O2, 48 h), and MK was silenced via lentiviral shRNA (shRNA-413, ∼85% knockdown). Cellular phenotypes were assessed using Cell Counting Kit-8 assays for proliferation, wound healing assays for migration, and flow cytometry for apoptosis. Molecular analyses (quantitative polymerase chain reaction and western blot) targeted apoptosis-related proteins and Notch2 signaling. In vivo, HPH was induced in rats by LPS plus chronic hypoxia/smoke exposure; MK was inhibited via intratracheal adeno-associated virus serotype 9-mediated gene delivery (AAV9-shRNA (1.5 × 1011 vg/rat). Outcomes included hemodynamics, vascular remodeling, oxidative stress markers, and apoptosis-related protein expression in lung tissue.In vitro, hypoxia upregulated MK, activating Notch2-Hes1 signaling, promoting proliferation and migration at 48 h, and suppressing apoptosis (P < 0.01 vs. normoxia). MK knockdown reversed these effects, restoring apoptosis (P < 0.01). In vivo, HPH activated the MK-Notch2 axis in rat lung tissue; MK suppression inhibited Notch2 signaling, improved antioxidant capacity, alleviated oxidative stress (e.g., elevated SOD/CAT, reduced MDA/LDH; P < 0.01), induced PASMC apoptosis, attenuated vascular remodeling, and reduced pulmonary arterial pressure.Unlike current vasodilators, MK drives HPH pathogenesis by suppressing PASMC apoptosis via Notch2 and exacerbating oxidative stress. Targeting MK offers a promising therapeutic strategy for HPH.Copyright © 2026 Zhu, Li, Wang, Huang, Peng, Wu, Liao, Wei, Zhong, Jin and Deng.
Uveal melanoma (UM) is a challenging malignancy, in terms of diagnosis, risk stratification, and treatment associated with high morbidity and mortality rates. It has been demonstrated that E2F-related pathways play a significant role in the tumorigenesis and distant metastasis of UM. In this study, the E2F target-related genes were utilized to construct and validate a prognostic risk score for patients with UM.Using the TCGA-UVM cohort (n = 80), 192 E2F target genes were screened using gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) to identify survival-associated genes. Prognostic genes were filtered using Kaplan-Meier analysis, univariate Cox regression, and LASSO, followed by multivariate Cox regression to construct a risk score model. The model was validated using the GSE22138 cohort (n = 63). Functional annotations of the risk score and its impact on stratifying tumor immune microenvironment components were assessed.A total of 9 genes (CDC25B, NME1, RFC2, PRDX4, NASP, UBE2S, PRKDC, MCM6, and LBR) passed the model construction pipeline. The risk score categorization system showed an independent prognostic power (HR: 2.34, 95% CI: 1.11-4.90, p = 0.025) and a good predictability of the survival outcome (receiver operating characteristic curve analysis: area under the curve = 0.730, 95% CI: 0.60-0.86, p = 0.002). When analyzing the most frequently mutated gene cohorts, the risk score was significantly lower in the mutated subgroups of GNAQ, SF3B1, and EIF1AX. In contrast, the risk score was notably higher in the BAP1 mutated subgroup. Copy number analysis of chromosomal arms showed significant correlations between the risk score and 1q, 3q, 3p, 6p, 8q. The high-risk group showed significant infiltration for NK cells, plasma B cells, gamma delta T cells, follicular T cells, M1 and M2 macrophages with lower infiltration of common myeloid progenitor cells. In addition, the high-risk group showed higher immune and microenvironment scores.The developed E2F target-related gene model offers a robust tool for predicting the prognosis of UM patients. As a potential risk stratification method for UM, this model could have clinical applications pending further evaluation.© 2026 S. Karger AG, Basel.
Sorafenib refractoriness severely compromises therapeutic efficacy in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). This study identifies ferritin heavy chain 1 pseudogene 7 (FTH1P7) as a critical driver and propagator of sorafenib resistance. FTH1P7 was significantly upregulated in HCC cells resistant to sorafenib. Mechanistically, the self-sustaining FTH1P7/microRNA-182-5p/FOXC1 positive feedback loop maintained high FTH1P7 expression levels in resistant cells. Elevated FTH1P7 functioned as a competing endogenous RNA to the mRNA of its parental gene, ferritin heavy chain 1 (FTH1). Increased FTH1 levels enhanced Fe2+ oxidation, thereby inhibiting ferroptosis-a key anticancer mechanism of sorafenib-thereby conferring resistance. Furthermore, exosomes derived from resistant cells transferred FTH1P7 to sorafenib-sensitive cells, thereby horizontally propagating resistance. To counter sorafenib resistance, we developed a nanoliposome co-delivering sorafenib and FTH1P7-targeting siRNA (SR-siFTH1P7-LIP). This nanomedicine synergistically and effectively silenced FTH1P7 expression and reversed resistance. These results elucidate novel mechanisms of sorafenib resistance, involving FTH1P7-mediated induction and exosomal propagation of ferroptotic resistance, and propose a promising nanomedicine-based strategy to combat sorafenib refractoriness in HCC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
To investigate the expression of TMSB4X in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) cells, as well as its effects on T-ALL cell proliferation and metastasis and the underlying mechanisms.qRT-PCR and Western blot were used to detect the expression of TMSB4X mRNA and protein in human CD3+T cells from healthy donors and the human T-ALL cell lines Jurkat, MOLT-4, and CCRF-CEM. Jurkat cells with TMSB4X knockdown (TMSB4X-KD group) and CCRF-CEM cells with TMSB4X overexpressing (TMSB4X-OE group) were constructed via lentivirus infection, with corresponding control groups set up for each; additionally, Jurkat cells in the TMSB4X-KD group were co-incubated with 20 μmol/L SKL2001 (a Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway agonist) for 24 hours ( TMSB4X-KD+SKL2001 group), while CCRF-CEM cells in the TMSB4X-OE group were co-incubated with 10 μmol/L MSAB (a Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway inhibitor) for 24 hours (TMSB4X-OE+MSAB group). CCK8 assay, flow cytometry and Transwell assay were used to detect the cell proliferation, apoptosis, and migration ability, respectively, while Western blot was used to detect the expression of related proteins in each group.The expression levels of TMSB4X mRNA and protein in the T-ALL cell lines (Jurkat, MOLT-4 and CCRF-CEM) were all significantly higher than those in CD3+T cells from healthy donors (P <0.01). Compared with the control group, Jurkat cells in the TMSB4X-KD group showed significantly decreased proliferation and migratory abilities (P <0.001), a significantly elevated apoptosis rate (P <0.001), and significantly downregulated expression of Wnt4 and β-catenin proteins (P <0.001); in contrast, CCRF-CEM cells in the TMSB4X-OE group showed significantly increased proliferation and migratory abilities (P <0.01), a significantly decreased apoptosis rate (P <0.001), and significantly upregulated expression of Wnt4 and β-catenin proteins (P <0.01). Compared with the TMSB4X-KD group, Jurkat cells in the TMSB4X-KD+SKL2001 group exhibited significantly increased proliferation and migratory abilities (P <0.001), along with a markedly reduced apoptosis rate (P <0.001); in contrast, compared with the TMSB4X-OE group, CCRF-CEM cells in the TMSB4X-OE+MSAB group showed significantly decreased proliferation and migratory abilities (P <0.01), as well as a notably elevated apoptosis rate (P <0.001).TMSB4X can promote the proliferation and metastasis of T-ALL cells by activating the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway.
Urinary proteomic profiling (UPP) provides insights in disease mechanisms and origin of symptoms. Using UPP, this study aimed at deepening insight in the biology of exercise tolerance.In the HOMAGE trial, 268 patients at risk of heart failure underwent the incremental shuttle walk test (SWT) and UPP by capillary electrophoresis coupled with mass spectrometry at baseline (discovery) and the 9-month final visit (replication). Sequencing of 1498 urinary peptides identified 170 non-collagen and 40 collagen-derived proteins. Ten exercise-related variables, including heart rate and blood pressure responses, symptoms and walking distance were summarised into a single factor, higher values indicating exercise intolerance. In exploratory analyses, exercise intolerance was related to the UPP, first in linear and logistic regression models, considering one peptide at a time, and next by elastic net regression considering the peptides retained in the previous step. Replicated proteins were subjected to pathway analysis.Twenty-nine non-collagen and 31 collagen-derived peptides were associated with reduced exercise capacity with correction for multiple testing. In elastic net regression, exercise intolerance was in >50% of 1000 bootstrap runs associated with the non-collagen proteins FXYD2, GAPDH, HBB, KCNB1, MB, MYOCD, SECTM1, SNX9, TACC3, TMSB4X, and TTN and with collagens COL5A1, COL6A1, COL11A2, and COL28A1. Enriched pathways involved oxygen homoeostasis, oxidative stress regulation, metabolic and developmental processes, and muscle biology.In HOMAGE patients, UPP identified parent proteins regulating exercise endurance, which are involved in oxygenation, vascular and muscle structure and function, maintenance of the circulating volume, and protection against oxidative stress.European Union.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
ObjectiveTo investigate whether naringin enhances the chemosensitivity of nasopharyngeal carcinoma-derived CNE2 cells to paclitaxel and identify potential molecular mediators.MethodsCNE2 cells were treated with naringin alone or in combination with paclitaxel, cisplatin, or 5-fluorouracil. Cell viability, proliferation, and migration were assessed using cell counting kit-8 and Transwell assays. Transcriptomic profiling followed by bioinformatic analysis of Gene Expression Omnibus datasets (GSE53819, GSE12452, and GSE102349) was performed to identify nasopharyngeal carcinoma prognosis-related genes. AKR1C3 overexpression was established via lentiviral transduction, and pharmacological inhibition was performed using ASP9521. mRNA and protein expression were validated using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blot analysis.ResultsNaringin (160 μM) demonstrated a trend toward reducing the half-maximal inhibitory concentration of paclitaxel from 10.52 to 8.04 nM; however, it did not significantly alter sensitivity to cisplatin or 5-fluorouracil. Combined treatment with 2 nM paclitaxel and 160 μM naringin synergistically suppressed CNE2 proliferation and migration compared with that using either agent alone (p < 0.05). Bioinformatic analysis revealed that high AKR1C3 expression was correlated with improved survival in patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma (p < 0.05), whereas high PAIP1, PRKDC, PTPRR, and COL12A1 expressions were correlated with poorer outcomes. Reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction confirmed that both naringin and paclitaxel upregulated AKR1C3 mRNA, with the combination producing the strongest effect. Gain-of-function studies demonstrated that AKR1C3 overexpression significantly enhanced paclitaxel sensitivity, with half-maximal inhibitory concentration values decreasing from 13.63 to 6.994 nM in CNE2 cells and from 8.534 to 4.668 nM in CNE1 cells. Furthermore, the specific AKR1C3 inhibitor, ASP9521, significantly attenuated the synergistic anti-proliferative and anti-migratory effects of paclitaxel + naringin in CNE2 cells, confirming that naringin enhances chemosensitivity to paclitaxel by upregulating AKR1C3 expression.ConclusionsNaringin sensitizes CNE2 cells to paclitaxel, potentially via AKR1C3 upregulation. This flavonoid may represent a low-toxicity adjunct to enhance the efficacy of paclitaxel in nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
Recent research indicates that the senescence of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) disrupts the osteo-adipogenic balance, a primary factor contributing to the development of osteoporosis. Our previous findings have implicated methyltransferases in this process, among which methyltransferase-like 13 (METTL13) has been established to regulate cell fate, although its role in osteoporosis has yet to be determined.Bone formation was assessed using micro-computed tomography and hematoxylin and eosin staining. Protein expression in bone tissues was examined immunohistochemically, and cellular mRNA and protein levels were determined using quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and western blotting. Cellular senescence was evaluated based on β-galactosidase staining, and osteogenic and adipogenic differentiation was examined using alkaline phosphatase, Alizarin Red S, and Oil Red O staining. Protein interactions and DNA binding were determined using co-immunoprecipitation and chromatin immunoprecipitation.METTL13 expression was significantly enhanced in ovariectomy-induced senescent bone and BMSCs, whereas METTL13 knockdown markedly reversed etoposide-induced cellular senescence. By binding to forkhead box protein A1 (Foxa1), METTL13 promotes the preferential differentiation of BMSCs into adipocytes, as opposed to osteocytes. Moreover, Foxa1 had effects opposite to those of METTL13 on BMSC differentiation, inhibiting the nuclear entry of METTL13. Notably, blocking the nuclear import of Foxa1 suppressed the transcriptional expression of HES-1, which promoted the adipogenic differentiation of BMSCs and inhibited osteogenic differentiation.Our findings in this study revealed the mechanisms whereby METTL13 promotes BMSC senescence and disrupts BMSC differentiation, on the basis of which, we identified the METTL13-Foxa1-HES-1 axis as a potential therapeutic target for treatment of osteoporosis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Inflammation of the small intestine can be caused by infections, immune-mediated disorders (such as celiac disease) and medications, leading to malabsorption, chronic diarrhea, and subclinical alterations including increased gut permeability and systemic inflammation. It has been suggested that probiotics can restore barrier integrity and reduce inflammation. The objective of the present study was to evaluate the effects of the probiotic yeast Saccharomyces boulardii CNCM I-745 (Sb) in a mouse model of sterile, inflammation-induced enteropathy based on intragastric administration of the gliadin peptide p31-43. Challenge with this peptide induces histological changes in the small intestinal mucosa, causes an elevation in inflammatory markers, and promotes cell death.The mice were challenged with a single dose of p31-43 or multiple doses over a three-week period, with or without Sb coadministration. Intestinal damage was assessed with regard to histologic features, mRNA gene expression (using RT-qPCR assays), caspase-1 activation (using Western blots), and cell death (using TUNEL reaction).Compared with mice treated with single or repeated doses of p31-43 alone, concomitant Sb treatment was associated with significantly better histological parameters, with restoration of the villus-height-to-crypt-depth ratio and less intraepithelial lymphocyte infiltration. Sb prevented the p31-43-induced upregulation of Cxcl10 expression. A Western blot analysis demonstrated that Sb attenuated caspase-1 activation, which indicated the suppression of p31-43-induced inflammasome activation. Furthermore, Sb prevented the increase in cell death observed following p31-43 treatment. No differences in goblet cell numbers were observed. However, Muc2 mRNA expression was upregulated following p31-43 treatment alone or in combination with Sb. Similarly, the analysis of the expression of markers associated with epithelial cell proliferation and differentiation (Atoh1 and Hes1) suggested a potential shift toward enhanced differentiation of secretory epithelial cells. In conclusion, Saccharomyces boulardii CNCM I-745 significantly attenuated mucosal damage, inflammation, and cell death in a murine model of small intestinal inflammation. These results suggest that Sb has the potential to prevent or alleviate inflammation-induced damage to the small intestine and underscore the importance of probiotic yeasts and the mycobiome in modulating host responses in the gut. Clinical evaluation in celiac disease and related disorders is now warranted.Copyright © 2026 Lezcano, Miculan, Ducca, Ruera, Iribarren, Tixador, Roux and Chirdo.
Stanford type A aortic dissection (AAD) is a life-threatening cardiovascular disease characterized by tearing in the aortic wall. Using spatial transcriptomics and multiplex immunofluorescence, we comprehensively analyzed ascending aortas from eight AAD patients across different severities and segments. We demonstrate that SPP1-driven inflammatory signaling intensifies with AAD severity, identifying a nine-gene, layer-anchored severity scale: MYL6/CALD1/MYH9 (mild); CCL2/CP/COL4A1 (moderate); and TMSB4X/ATP5F1E/PKM (severe). Importantly, the collagen-remodeling triad COL1A1/COL3A1/MMP2 is concurrently up-regulated in the brachiocephalic, left subclavian, and left common carotid arteries, often before the ascending aorta meets surgical diameter thresholds. These molecular signatures provide a critical foundation for non-invasive biomarker discovery, risk stratification, and precision pharmacotherapy targeting the SPP1-inflammatory axis, ultimately offering new insights into AAD mechanisms and therapeutic targets.© 2026 The Author(s).
Lactiplantibacillus plantarum (L. plantarum) is a well-characterized probiotic with a long history of safe application, exhibiting prominent potential in improving skeletal muscle function. As the most prevalent and plentiful mRNA modification in eukaryotes, extensive research has highlighted the non-negligible role of N6-methyladenosine (m6A) in regulating various aspects of skeletal muscle biology. However, the underlying mechanisms through which L. plantarum-derived signals regulate host myogenic programs, as well as whether m6A modification is involved in this process, remain unclear.To explore the microbe-host regulatory axis through which L. plantarum promotes skeletal muscle regeneration and whether m6A modification is involved in this process.The cardiotoxin-induced muscle injury mouse model was constructed to investigate the impact of L. plantarum WY2401 on skeletal muscle regeneration. Untargeted metabolomics analysis was used to screen out L. plantarum WY2401-derived key metabolite. The changes in m6A modification were determined using dot blot and MeRIP-qPCR.We identified L. plantarum WY2401 as a pro-myogenic probiotic that promotes skeletal muscle regeneration. Specifically, L. plantarum WY2401 strongly alters circulating metabolomic profiles, particularly elevating the production of microbiota-derived riboflavin. Upregulated riboflavin is transported to skeletal muscle through the bloodstream, where it modulates the expression of the m6A methyltransferase METTL3 in a stage-dependent manner during myogenesis. This modulation promotes myoblast proliferation by enhancing the stability of Cdk2 and Ccnd1 mRNAs through the METTL3-m6A-YTHDF1 pathway. It also facilitates myoblast differentiation by increasing Mef2a mRNA stability through the METTL3-m6A-YTHDF2 pathway.Our findings reveal a novel microbe-host regulatory axis through which L. plantarum WY2401 promotes skeletal muscle regeneration via stage-specific epigenetic modulation of myogenesis. This work highlights the potential of L. plantarum as a functional probiotic supplement for improving skeletal muscle development and provides new insights into probiotic-mediated regulation of muscle regeneration.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
N6-methyladenosine (m6A) methylation modification plays an essential role in cancer development. This study focused on the mechanism exploration of m6A methyltransferase 3 (METTL3) and its downstream target gene nuclear protein-1 (NUPR1) in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Detection of mRNA and protein was completed using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blot. Cellular behaviors were evaluated by CCK-8, EdU, flow cytometry and transwell assay. Ferroptosis was analyzed via Fe2+ level and oxidative indicators. Methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP) was performed for validating m6A modification. RIP and dual-luciferase reporter assay were used to confirm METTL3 and NUPR1 combination. Animal research was implemented for METTL3 and NUPR1 analysis in vivo. METTL3 was overexpressed in HCC. METTL3 silencing suppressed HCC cell proliferation and invasion, while enhancing apoptosis and partially inducing ferroptosis. METTL3 downregulation reduced NUPR1 level. METTL3 induced m6A modification of NUPR1 in an IGF2BP2-dependent manner. Tumor-inhibitory effects of METTL3 knockdown were counteracted by NUPR1 overexpression. METTL3 promoted HCC tumor growth and suppressed ferroptosis in vivo by regulating NUPR1. These findings suggested that METTL3 facilitated cell invasion and partially inhibited ferroptosis through catalyzing m6A methylation modification of NUPR1, validating the specific regulatory axis METTL3/NUPR1 in HCC progression.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Pancreatic acinar cell carcinoma (ACC) is a rare and aggressive malignancy whose molecular basis remains poorly understood. N6-methyladenosine (m⁶A) RNA modification, mediated particularly through methyltransferase 3 (METTL3), has emerged as a critical regulator in various cancers. Here, we investigated the role of METTL3-mediated RNA methylation in ACC development and progression. We used transgenic mouse models overexpressing Mettl3 and SV40 large T antigen under the pancreatic elastase I promoter. Comprehensive analyses included m⁶A-methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing (MeRIP-seq), single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), functional studies using the METTL3 inhibitor STM2457, and S-adenosylmethionine (SAM)-binding domain deletion mutants to assess functional requirements. Mettl3 overexpression significantly accelerated ACC development and increased tumor aggressiveness. The SAM-binding domain was essential for tumor formation, as deletion mutants failed to promote carcinogenesis. MeRIP-seq revealed preferential methylation of cell cycle and DNA replication genes in Mettl3-overexpressing tumors. scRNA-seq analysis demonstrated enhanced malignancy signatures, including epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition and transforming growth factor-β signaling. METTL3 also promoted PRSS1-mediated signaling from ACC cells to inflammatory cancer-associated fibroblasts, creating a feed-forward loop involving IGF1 that amplifies tumor growth. Conditional Mettl3 deletion induced rapid tumor apoptosis. Pharmacological inhibition with STM2457 similarly triggered caspase-3/7-dependent apoptosis in pancreatic tumors. METTL3-mediated RNA methylation drives ACC pathogenesis through tumor-intrinsic cell cycle regulation and tumor-extrinsic stromal interactions. These findings establish METTL3 as a promising therapeutic target and provide mechanistic insights supporting the clinical development of METTL3 inhibitors for ACC treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560011 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559138 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42554848 is a review article
Chronic stress contributes to hippocampal neuronal apoptosis and neural circuit dysfunction in major depressive disorder (MDD), but the epitranscriptomic mechanisms regulating stress-responsive microRNAs remain unclear. This study investigated whether methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3)-mediated N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification promotes miR-140-3p maturation and neuronal apoptosis through the OTX2/Wnt/β-catenin axis under chronic stress.A chronic unpredictable mild stress rat model and a corticosterone-induced primary hippocampal neuron injury model were established. Behavioral assays, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) staining, flow cytometry, western blotting, qRT-PCR, proteomic and transcriptomic analyses, methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP), DiGeorge syndrome critical region gene 8 (DGCR8) RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP), and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed. Serum miR-140-3p expression was also assessed in patients with MDD and healthy controls. miR-140-3p was upregulated in the hippocampus of stressed rats and in the serum of patients with MDD. Hippocampal miR-140-3p knockdown alleviated depressive-like behaviors and reduced neuronal apoptosis, whereas miR-140-3p inhibition protected primary hippocampal neurons from corticosterone-induced apoptosis. Mechanistically, chronic stress increased METTL3 expression and global m6A levels. METTL3 enhanced m6A modification of pri-miR-140-3p, promoted DGCR8-dependent processing, and increased mature miR-140-3p expression. miR-140-3p directly targeted OTX2 and modulated Wnt/β-catenin signaling, while OTX2 silencing attenuated the antiapoptotic effect of miR-140-3p inhibition.METTL3-dependent m6A maturation of miR-140-3p may contribute to stress-induced hippocampal neuronal apoptosis through the OTX2/Wnt/β-catenin axis, providing potential molecular targets for further investigation in MDD.© 2026. The Author(s).
N6-methyladenosine (m6A) RNA modification plays critical roles in physiological and pathological processes. Our prior study demonstrated that IGFBP5 expression is upregulated in the ischemic limb, whereas endothelial-specific IGFBP5 knockout (Igfbp5EKO) protects against hind limb ischemia by enhancing angiogenesis. Here, we show that IGFBP5 deficiency elevates global m6A levels and upregulates the expression of m6A methyltransferase complex components METTL3, METTL14 and WTAP in endothelial cells. We further identified a direct interaction between IGFBP5 and the MT-A70 domain of METTL14. Knockdown of METTL14, METTL3 or WTAP attenuated the pro-angiogenic effects of IGFBP5 deficiency in vitro. In vivo, endothelial knockdown of METTL14 abolished the improved hind-limb ischemia recovery in Igfbp5EKO mice. Methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing revealed that IGFBP5 depletion in endothelial cells increases both m6A modification and mRNA abundance of FGF16. Notably, METTL14 or METTL3 silencing suppressed IGFBP5-dependent FGF16 upregulation. Enhanced translational efficiency of FGF16 in IGFBP5-deficient cells was reversed by METTL14 knockdown, indicating that IGFBP5 regulates FGF16 translation via m6A modification. Mechanistically, IGFBP5 modulates FGF16 m6A modification via interaction with the m6A reader protein IGF2BP2, targeting the m6A site at position 255 of FGF16 mRNA. In summary, our study establishes METTL14-mediated m6A modification of FGF16 as a key mechanism underlying IGFBP5-driven angiogenesis. Targeting the IGFBP5-METTL14-m6A-FGF16 axis may offer novel therapeutic strategies for ischemic disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Nuclear export of mRNA is one of the key stages of gene expression in eukaryotes. A wide range of mRNAs is exported by the TREX-2 complex, which includes the PCID2 RNA-binding protein. Previously, we showed that PCID2 is responsible for specific recognition of transcripts, and we identified its binding site on the Drosophila ras2 gene mRNA within the 3'-non-coding region. However, the interaction was not localized for other mRNAs, which makes it impossible to identify the general patterns of PCID2 interaction with mRNA. In this work, we investigated the interaction of PCID2 with the mRNA of the kruppel gene of Drosophila melanogaster. In the EMSA experiments, we showed that PCID2 binds to two fragments of kruppel mRNA, from the 5' non-coding and coding mRNA regions. Thus, the PCID2 binding site can be located not only in the 3'-non-coding region, as in the case of the ras2 mRNA, but also in other mRNA regions. PCID2 has a lower affinity for binding sites in the kruppel mRNA than in the ras2 mRNA. Our analysis of the mRNA structure at three binding sites led to a general interaction model, in which a hairpin-type conformation emerges as the most probable structural motif at these sites.© 2026. Pleiades Publishing, Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558438 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42557498
Altered energy metabolism is a shared driver across cardiometabolic diseases-the leading cause of death globally1. Energy metabolism varies between individuals and is partly heritable2-9. Here, to investigate the genetic basis of energy metabolism, we perform an exome-sequencing analysis of 1,032,116 people from America, Europe and Asia, and estimate associations between rare protein-coding variants and the ratio of triglyceride to high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol (TG:HDL)-an energy-state biomarker that we associate with diverse cardiometabolic risk factors and diseases. We identify 59 independent genes (P < 1.04 × 10-7) that are enriched for liver- and adipose-expressed master regulators of energy balance, storage and metabolism; 23 (39%) of these genes encode approved or clinical-stage drug targets. Ultra-rare protein-truncating variants in FNIP1 (allele frequency, 0.01%), which encodes a suppressor of energy expenditure and mitochondrial metabolism, are associated with a lower TG:HDL ratio, lower liver fat, lower glycaemia, favourable fat distribution and around 60% lower odds of cardiometabolic disease. FNIP1 knockdown in primary human hepatocytes induces lipid breakdown and lysosomal gene expression, while combined hepatic knockdown of Fnip1 with its paralogue Fnip2 or knockdown of its interactor Flcn protect against weight gain, reduce liver fat and enhance insulin sensitivity in mice fed a high-fat diet. Our study implicates the FNIP1 pathway in human energy metabolism and highlights its inhibition as a potential therapeutic strategy in cardiometabolic disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Epithelioid angiomyolipoma (E-AML) is a rare renal tumor, which can exhibit malignant potential. Because angiomyolipomas frequently harbor TSC1/TSC2 alterations, mTOR inhibitors are commonly used. However, durable disease control remains inconsistent. The potential for long-lasting response with immune checkpoint inhibitors supports exploring their role in E-AML. We report a patient with highly symptomatic, locally advanced renal E-AML treated with first-line ipilimumab plus nivolumab. The patient experienced rapid symptomatic and radiographic improvement after treatment initiation. She subsequently developed immune-related sarcoidosis, which resolved after discontinuation of immunotherapy and with corticosteroids. Given sustained disease control, she underwent delayed nephrectomy demonstrating complete pathologic response in the primary tumor. Genomic analysis revealed a germline mutation in FLCN consistent with Birt-Hogg-Dubé syndrome. T-cell receptor sequencing identified a shared expanded T-cell clone in peripheral blood and within the tumor. With extended follow-up for over 5 years, she remains in durable remission after dual immune checkpoint blockade. To our knowledge, this is the first report of dual immune checkpoint blockade in renal E-AML. This case demonstrates that first-line ipilimumab plus nivolumab can induce deep, durable response-including complete pathologic response-in a rare malignancy with limited standard treatment options, supporting further evaluation of immunotherapy in this disease.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Although several ancillary tests are available in limited laboratories, diagnosis of microphthalmia (MiT)/TFE family translocation renal cell carcinoma (tRCC) could be challenging due to diverse and overlapping tumor morphology and the lack of reliable biomarkers. GPNMB has been recently identified as a diagnostic marker for various renal neoplasms with FLCN/TSC/mTOR-TFE alterations. However, the sensitivity and specificity of GPNMB immunostain are suboptimal and the result interpretation in ambiguous cases could be difficult. To search additional biomarkers that could improve the screening sensitivity and predict genetic aberrations in FLCN/TSC/mTOR-TFE pathway in renal tumors, we performed bioinformatic analysis of publicly available cancer databases and found GPR143, a transmembrane protein regulated by MiT transcription factors, was highly expressed in a subset of renal cell carcinomas (RCCs). In two kidney cancer cohorts of the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), RCCs with high levels of GPR143 expression were enriched for renal neoplasms with FLCN/TSC/mTOR-TFE alterations. Similar to GPNMB labeling, GPR143 immunostain was positive in the majority of tRCC cases and renal tumors with FLCN/TSC/mTOR alterations, suggesting that GPR143 could function as another surrogate marker for FLCN/TSC/mTOR-TFE alterations in certain renal tumors. Interestingly, despite the concordant GPR143 and GPNMB immunoreactivity in most renal neoplasms with FLCN/TSC/mTOR-TFE alterations, diffuse GPR143 immunostain was observed in some cases with negative or focal GPNMB labeling. Taken together, our results indicate GPR143 could serve as a useful adjunct marker to improve the sensitivity for screening renal tumors with FLCN/TSC/mTOR-TFE alterations.© 2026. The Author(s).
So-called hybrid oncocytic tumor (HOT) is the renal neoplasm most commonly associated with the germline folliculin (FLCN) mutations that define Birt-Hogg-Dubé syndrome. However, the spectrum of renal epithelial neoplasms associated with FLCN gene mutations has recently expanded to include neoplasms with somatic FLCN mutations and those with variant morphology. Some of these FLCN-mutated neoplasms overlap morphologically and immunohistochemically with TSC/MTOR-mutated and TFE3/TFEB fusion renal cell carcinomas, which makes sense given their overlapping genetic pathways. One morphology that has been reported in 1 to 2 cases each across multiple studies is that of a "histiocyte-rich" renal epithelial neoplasm, characterized by acinar spaces lined by neoplastic oncocytic epithelial cells variably distended by luminal histiocytes. An unanswered question is how frequently this morphology is associated with FLCN mutations. We identified 11 previously unreported cases of histiocyte-rich renal epithelial neoplasms and performed immunohistochemistry and next-generation sequencing. Five out of 11 cases (45%) demonstrated FLCN mutations, including at least 3 cases with evidence supporting occult Birt-Hogg-Dubé syndrome. All FLCN-mutated neoplasms were diffusely immunoreactive for glycoprotein nonmetastatic B (GPNMB), but so were 3 of the 6 morphologically similar cases in which FLCN mutations were not detected. The 2 syndromic cases with adequate surrounding kidney for evaluation demonstrated GPNMB-positive cysts lined by cells with similar cytology to that of the neoplasms, possibly representing precursor lesions. In summary, histiocyte-rich renal epithelial neoplasm is a morphologic pattern that is strongly but not invariably associated with FLCN mutations. Recognition of this pattern is helpful in that it may provide the first clue to the presence of occult Birt-Hogg-Dubé syndrome.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Smith-Magenis syndrome (SMS) is a rare multisystem genetic disorder caused by a 17p11.2 microdeletion or pathogenic variants in the retinoic acid-induced 1 (RAI1) gene. It is characterized by developmental delay, distinctive craniofacial features, behavioral dysregulation, and inverted sleep-wake rhythm. Because early clinical findings are often nonspecific, diagnosis is frequently delayed, and patients may initially present to child psychiatry services with behavioral complaints. We report a 5-year-old girl referred for hyperactivity, severe circadian sleep disturbance with recurrent nocturnal awakenings, self-injurious behaviors, sensory-seeking behaviors, and developmental delay. Comprehensive psychiatric, developmental, neurological, physical, and genetic evaluations revealed a 17p11.2 microdeletion involving both RAI1 and folliculin (FLCN). The diagnosis of SMS was confirmed, and the involvement of FLCN indicated additional potential long-term medical risks. This case underscores the importance of considering genetic etiologies in children presenting with severe behavioral dysregulation and sleep problems and highlights the critical role of comprehensive genetic assessment in guiding diagnosis, management, and long-term follow-up.© 2026 The Author(s). Developmental Neurobiology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42389716
Objective: To investigate the clinicopathological characteristics, immunophenotype, molecular features, and differential diagnosis of low-grade eosinophilic renal tumors associated with FLCN mutations. Methods: Clinical and pathological data from 18 cases of FLCN-mutation-associated low-grade eosinophilic renal tumors were collected from the Department of Pathology of Nanjing Jinling Hospital, Nanjing University School of Medicine. Histological morphology and immunophenotyping were performed, and high-throughput targeted gene mutation sequencing was performed on all 18 cases. Results: Among the 18 patients, 13 were male and 5 were female, aged 55 (43, 62) years. Twelve cases were diagnosed with hereditary Birt-Hogg-Dubé (BHD) syndrome. Among patients with BHD syndrome, 10 had multifocal tumors and 7 had bilateral tumors. Of the 18 patients, 10 had typical hybrid eosinophilic/chromophobe tumors (HOCT), and 8 had unclassified eosinophilic tumors. Histologically, 10 cases of typical HOCT showed a characteristic "mosaic" pattern. The 8 cases of unclassified eosinophilic cell tumors were morphologically heterogeneous, including 4 cases resembling chromophobe renal cell carcinoma (ChRCC), 1 case resembling succinate dehydrogenase-deficient renal cell carcinoma (SDH-RCC), 2 cases rich in "histiocytic lakes," and 1 case with eosinophilic cell; all lacked the hybrid cell components and "mosaic" morphological features typical of HOCT. Immunophenotypically, in the 10 typical HOCT cases, L1CAM, E-cadherin, CD117, and CK7 predominantly showed "mosaic" -like immunohistochemical features, consistent with the histological morphology; Cathepsin K was diffusely moderate positive in 2 cases and focally positive in 3 cases; CD10 was positive in 2 cases. Eight cases of unclassified eosinophilic tumors partially lacked typical immunohistochemical features, and their immunophenotypes were inconsistent. Other commonly used immunohistochemical markers vimentin, CK20, Melan A, TFE3, and TFEB were all negative. Despite their heterogeneity, non-metastatic glycoprotein B (GPNMB) showed diffusely, strongly positive in both typical HOCT and unclassified eosinophilic cell tumors (18/18). Next-generation sequencing (NGS) confirmed the presence of pathogenic or likely pathogenic FLCN mutations in all 18 cases. Conclusions: FLCN-mutation-associated low-grade eosinophilic renal tumors show distinct histological morphology, immunophenotype, and molecular genetic characteristics. It is necessary to make differential diagnosis from morphologically similar renal tumors in clinical practice. GPNMB serves as an important auxiliary marker for diagnosis of FLCN-mutation-associated low-grade eosinophilic renal tumors. Clinical, molecular, and genetic testing should be integrated to assess potential association with BHD syndrome, for making a precise diagnosis.
We report the case of a 72-year-old man referred to cardiothoracic services with a right-sided spontaneous pneumothorax. High-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) revealed extensive bilateral lung cysts and recurrence of the pneumothorax. Further clinical assessment led to a diagnosis of Birt-Hogg-Dubé (BHD) syndrome-a rare genetic condition marked by cystic lung disease, spontaneous pneumothoraces, skin fibrofolliculomas, and an elevated risk of renal tumors. We discuss the thoracic implications of BHD and the utility of uniportal video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (UVATS) with pleurodesis in recurrent cases. The report underlines the importance of genetic evaluation and long-term surveillance for patients and at-risk relatives. Genetic testing for the FLCN (Folliculin) gene was initiated and results were consistent with Birt-Hogg-Dubé syndrome.© Indian Association of Cardiovascular-Thoracic Surgeons 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Chronic spontaneous urticaria (CSU) can be particularly burdensome for older adults. Real-world evidence regarding the use of omalizumab in this growing demographic remains limited. This study evaluated the effectiveness and safety of domestic Omalizumab for Injection (Enyitan®) in elderly patients with CSU under real-world conditions.In this retrospective, single-center, observational cohort study, 71 CSU patients aged ≥65 years with moderate-to-severe disease activity were treated with omalizumab (Enyitan®, 300 mg every 4 weeks) between January and February 2025. Primary outcome was the proportion of patients achieving well-controlled disease (UAS7 ≤ 6) at Week 24. Secondary outcomes included changes in UAS7, Itch Severity Score (ISS), Wheal Score (WS), Urticaria Control Test (UCT), and Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI). Safety was assessed via adverse events (AEs) and laboratory parameters.Of 62 patients completing the 24-week study, 88.7% achieved a UAS7 ≤ 6. ISS and WS scores similarly improved (p<0.001). UCT scores increased from 5.2±2.1 to 14.8±3.2, and DLQI scores decreased from 15.6±4.3 to 3.1±2.8 (both p<0.001). Treatment was well-tolerated; only mild, transient AEs were reported, predominantly injection-site reactions (9.7%) and headache (3.2%).Domestic omalizumab (Enyitan®) demonstrated rapid, sustained effectiveness and a favorable safety profile in elderly patients with H1-antihistamine-resistant CSU, supporting its use as a first-line biologic therapy in this vulnerable population.The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559654 is a review article
During the phase III trial (NCT04839016), the outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) inevitably caused vunakizumab interruption in patients with psoriasis. This study extracted the data from Huashan Hospital, where almost all patients experienced drug interruption, and aimed to explore the efficacy and safety of vunakizumab in patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis and the impact of treatment interruption. A total of 90 patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis receiving vunakizumab (n = 65) or placebo (n = 25) were enrolled. Patients in the placebo group were switched to vunakizumab treatment at week (W)12. The 75% or more improvement in the Psoriasis Area Severity Index (PASI 75), PASI 90, and PASI 100 response rates at W12 were higher in the vunakizumab group than in the placebo group. This trend was observed at most time points over 52 weeks. Dermatology life quality index (DLQI) score, DLQI 0/1 response rate, and itch numerical rating scale score at W4, W8, and W12 were improved in the vunakizumab group compared to the placebo group. The incidence of adverse events during the induction period was numerically lower in the vunakizumab group than the placebo group. Sixty-four (98.5%) patients in the vunakizumab group experienced drug interruption, with 59 (92.2%) patients due to COVID-19 pandemic. All patients in the placebo group experienced any-cause drug interruption. In the vunakizumab group, elevated frequency of drug interruption was related to reduced PASI 75 and PASI 90 response rates at W52. Despite the high drug interruption rate in Huashan Hospital during COVID-19 pandemic, vunakizumab shows acceptable efficacy and safety for treating patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis. However, the long-term efficacy of vunakizumab appears attenuated in this single-center cohort compared with the overall phase III trial population.© 2026. The Author(s).
Eczema is a prevalent, chronic skin condition that affects up to 10% of adults globally and is characterized by recurrent eczematous lesions. Intense itch is often the most burdensome symptom, leading to sleep disturbances and declining quality of life. Additionally, itch&ndash;scratch cycles perpetuate skin barrier damage and inflammation. Regular skincare with moisturizers is recognized as a cornerstone of eczema management.This study evaluated the itch relief and safety of Cetaphil&reg; Restoraderm Eczema Soothing Moisturizer (eczema moisturizer) and Cetaphil&reg; Restoraderm Eczema Rapid Relief Cream (eczema cream; Galderma Laboratories, LP, Fort Worth, TX) in individuals with eczema-prone skin.Thirty-three participants with bilateral eczema-prone skin and mild-to-moderate itch were randomized to blinded, split-body application of the products. Evaluations over 24 hours included time to onset of itch relief, grading of itch severity (11-point itch severity numerical rating scale [NRS]), self-assessment questionnaire (4-point structured scale), and safety assessments.The eczema moisturizer and the eczema cream provided rapid itch relief after a single application, with mean times to itch relief of 38 seconds and 43 seconds, respectively. Both treatments significantly reduced itch severity from baseline by 98% to 99% at 24 hours (eczema moisturizer mean NRS: 0.03; P&lt;0.0001; eczema cream mean NRS: 0.09; P&lt;0.0001). Self-assessment questionnaires demonstrated high participant satisfaction with both products after a single application.Single applications of eczema moisturizer and eczema cream were well tolerated, well perceived by participants, and provided rapid and sustained itch relief over 24 hours. &nbsp.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic inflammatory skin disorder marked by intense pruritus and episodic flares. While nemolizumab, an interleukin-31 (IL-31) inhibitor, has demonstrated efficacy in reducing itch severity, its broader effects on skin inflammation are not fully understood.We describe a 49-year-old male with longstanding, treatment-resistant AD who began off-label therapy with nemolizumab. Within weeks of initiation, he developed a new pruritic vesiculobullous eruption localized to the palms, clinically and histologically consistent with dyshidrotic eczema. His prior AD lesions remained stable, but the new eruption prompted temporary discontinuation of nemolizumab.The patient was treated with intravenous corticosteroids, resulting in significant improvement of the dyshidrotic eczema.This case highlights the potential for nemolizumab to exacerbate AD in some patients, emphasizing the need for caution and further research on its inflammatory effects and safety in real-world settings.
Chronic Kidney Disease-associated Pruritus is a chronic itching condition experienced by patients during and between dialysis sessions. The individualised nature of the condition makes prevalence and severity difficult to measure.The study aimed to identify the prevalence of Chronic Kidney Disease-associated Pruritus amongst patients receiving dialysis in Ireland, characterise symptom burden, severity, and frequency, factors associated with worsening symptoms, and to examine patient experiences of itching.A quantitative study with a qualitative free-text element was employed.689 patients undergoing dialysis completed a national survey.Patients undergoing haemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis completed the 5-D itch scale and a qualitative assessment of itching experiences. Regression analyses examined associations between domains of the 5-D itch scale, patient clinical characteristics and the occurrence of moderate-severe itching. Content analysis was used to report qualitative findings.Sixty-two percent (85% haemodialysis; 15% peritoneal dialysis) experienced Chronic Kidney Disease-associated Pruritus; 66% reported moderate-severe itching, with body/trunk region most affected (73%); however, the scalp/face region was most associated with moderate-severe itching (OR = 2.08, 95% CI 1.11-3.870). Four themes were identified: (1) the physical impact of Chronic Kidney Disease-associated Pruritus; (2) the psychological burden of itching; (3) variability in treatment success; (4) itch resolving over time.Two-thirds of Irish patients experience moderate-severe Chronic Kidney Disease-associated Pruritus; a prevalence rate higher than international estimates. This condition is psychologically distressing - impacting sleep, overall quality of life, and risk of infection. Patients require improved clinical attention and greater pratitioner education on management of this condition.© 2026 European Dialysis & Transplant Nurses Association/European Renal Care Association.
Psoriasis is a chronic autoimmune skin disorder marked by IL-17-producing γδ T cell (γδT17) and pruritus, but immunoregulatory roles of itch-inducing neurons in this context remain unclear. This study addressed whether non-peptidergic (NP) afferents bearing the Mas-related G protein-coupled receptor D (MrgprD/NP1) and MrgprA3/NP2 subsets had differential effects on psoriasiform immunopathology. Data show human NP1 and NP2 neurons basally expressed an array of pattern recognition and cytokine receptor genes, and psoriatic human skin had a profound dysregulation of neuropeptides and their receptors. In mice, imiquimod (IMQ) application reduced the density of MrgprD+ skin afferents, whereas NP1 neuron ablation exacerbated IMQ-induced disease. Strikingly, NP1 activation using either optogenetics or β-alanine before IMQ exposure significantly reduced epidermal thickness, psoriatic clinical score, and γδT17 cell accumulation. In stark contrast, NP2 activation increased the numbers of γδT17 cells that co-expressed amphiregulin (Areg) and exacerbated IMQ-driven skin pathology. Instead, pre-emptive NP1 stimulation shifted γδ T cell profiles away from being IL-17 and Areg dominant to IL-13+ γδ T cells expressing the transcription factor GATA3 accompanied by IL-10 secretion. Importantly, IL-10 signaling blockade reversed β-alanine-induced suppression of IMQ-induced dermatitis and γδT17 cell responses. These data show that sensory neuron subsets can distinctly modulate inflammatory skin disease.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42550791 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42547463 is a review article
Vulvar lichen sclerosus (VLS) is a chronic, inflammatory skin condition that can lead to vulvar itch and pain as well as challenges in sexual relationships. Yet, little research explores how couples coping with VLS navigate sexual challenges. Informed by sexual script theory and the concept of sexual script flexibility (i.e., adapting a typical sexual routine in response to a sexual problem), we aimed to examine the sexual challenges faced by couples coping with VLS and the strategies they used to cope and maintain satisfying sexual lives. A sample of 98 couples (196 individuals) independently completed two open-ended survey questions about VLS-related sexual challenges and coping strategies, which were analyzed using a reflexive thematic and abductive approach. Couples were found to cope with sexual challenges in three main ways, by 1) using sexual aids, but with varied experiences (3 subthemes), 2) focusing on the partner, for better or worse (2 subthemes), and 3) redefining the sexual relationship as a couple (4 subthemes). Within each of the three themes and nine subthemes, we discuss how couple members' coping strategies align with sexual script flexibility or not, and couples' nuanced reactions to implementing flexible strategies in their sexual lives.
Pulmonary hypertension is a malignant cardiovascular disease characterized by pulmonary vascular remodeling, with core pathological features including pulmonary arterial wall thickening and elevated pulmonary vascular remodeling due to aberrant proliferation of pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells (PASMCs). The molecular regulatory mechanisms underlying pulmonary vascular remodeling remain incompletely understood.Transcriptome sequencing was employed to screen for differentially expressed genes in lung artery tissues of control and Sugen5416 combined hypoxia-induced rat models. A series of in vitro and in vivo experiments, including scratch assays, EdU staining, Cell Counting Kit-8cell proliferation assays, immunofluorescence, immunoblotting, and overexpression/knockdown techniques, were performed to investigate the molecular mechanism by which KRT17 (keratin 17) induces PASMCs proliferation and promotes pulmonary hypertension vascular remodeling.KRT17 was found to be highly expressed in lung tissues of patients with pulmonary hypertension, as well as in pulmonary arterial tissue and hypoxic PASMCs models. Both in vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated that KRT17 was a critical regulator of PASMCs proliferation. METTL14 (methyltransferasean14, an m6A methyltransferase complex subunit) was identified as a potential modulator of KRT17 RNA methylation, enhancing its RNA stability and protein expression. Furthermore, KRT17 promoted PASMCs proliferation through upregulation of LCN2 (lipocalin-2).Our study reveals a novel molecular mechanism by which KRT17 expression is regulated via METTL14-mediated m6A methylation, and further elucidates the role of KRT17 in inducing PASMCs proliferation through the LCN2 signaling pathway. These findings provide significant theoretical insights for the development of innovative therapeutic targets for pulmonary hypertension.
N6-methyladenosine (m6A) is the most common RNA modification and plays a key role in the initiation, progression, and relapse of multiple cancers, including hematologic malignancies. However, the role of m6A and m6A regulatory genes in myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) remains unclear. This study aims to elucidate the function and molecular mechanism of methyltransferase METTL14 in MDS.RT-qPCR was used to assess the expression of multiple m6A regulators, focusing on METTL14 in MDS patients and cell lines. METTL14 overexpressing and knockdown cell lines were established, and CCK-8, EdU, and flow cytometry assays were performed to explore the biological functions of METTL14.Dot blot, MeRIP-Seq, MeRIP-qPCR, RT-qPCR, and Western blot were employed to investigate the underlying molecular mechanism.Dysregulation of multiple m6A regulators was observed in MDS, among which METTL14 was upregulated. Elevated METTL14 expression increases MDS risk and adverse prognosis, emerging as a biomarker for poor prognosis. METTL14 promoted proliferation and cell-cycle progression of MDS cells while inhibiting apoptosis; corresponding changes were observed in cell cycle and apoptosis markers. METTL14 regulated cellular m6A levels. Downstream target of METTL14 enriched in cell cycle-related pathways, with CCNE1 identified as a critical target. Knockdown of METTL14, actinomycin D, or S-adenosylhomocysteine treatment reduced CCNE1 mRNA and protein levels. Furthermore, METTL14 activated MAPK-ERK and PI3K-AKT signaling via CCNE1 in an m6A-dependent manner, thereby promoting proliferative MDS cells' capacity.This study delineates a METTL14/m6A/CCNE1 signaling axis in MDS progression and suggests that METTL14-mediated m6A modification may be a potential therapeutic target for MDS.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Ex vivo expansion of human hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) holds promise for overcoming their limited availability, a major barrier to broader clinical application. Although recent advances in culture systems can increase HSC numbers, these conditions frequently impair self-renewal and induce myeloid bias, and the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here, we performed single-cell multiome sequencing (scMultiome-seq) on human umbilical cord blood-derived CD34⁺ hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells to co-profile transcriptional and epigenetic adaptations within the same cells during ex vivo culture. Our analyses revealed reduced transcriptional and epigenetic HSC signatures, accompanied by markedly increased activity of myeloid-associated transcription factor motifs, providing molecular insight into the functional decline and myeloid bias of cultured HSCs. We further observed substantial functional heterogeneity among phenotypically defined HSCs following culture. To address these limitations, we established a niche-mimetic culture system that integrates intrinsic and extrinsic bone marrow regulatory cues, including pharmacologic inhibition of the m6A reader YTHDF2 using the small molecule Y13-27, a three-dimensional microenvironment, and N-cadherin-mediated adhesion. This condition (3D-NcadP-Y) robustly preserved long-term repopulating capacity. When combined with the self-renewal agonist UM729, the resulting platform (3D-NcadP-Y-UM) uniquely enabled the expansion of serially transplantable long-term HSCs with balanced multilineage potential. scMultiome-seq and cellular analyses demonstrated that this condition preserves transcriptional and epigenetic long-term HSC signatures, maintains multilineage-associated transcription factor motifs, and limits excessive cell-cycle activation. Together, these findings elucidate molecular mechanisms underlying culture-induced HSC dysfunction and establish a niche-mimetic strategy for expanding functional human long-term HSCs while preserving key features of stemness.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
Vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) migration is the key event in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis (AS) and plaque instability. Trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO) induces VSMC migration to promote the progression of AS. However, the effects of the N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification on this process remain unclear. Here, TMAO increased total m6A levels in human aortic smooth muscle cells (HASMCs) and decreased fat mass and obesity-associated protein (FTO) and YTH domain-containing family protein 2 (YTHDF2) protein expression. FTO or YTHDF2 overexpression significantly inhibited HASMC migration induced by TMAO. Mechanistically, the COL3A1 gene was shown to be critical for the regulation of HASMC migration by FTO or YTHDF2. Furthermore, methylated RNA immunoprecipitation and RNA stability assays demonstrated that FTO bound to the COL3A1 mRNA and altered its m6A modification, resulting in its decay. In vivo, VSMC-specific FTO or YTHDF2 deletion aggravated AS and plaque instability, whereas adeno-associated virus serotype 9 (AAV9)-mediated VSMC-specific YTHDF2 overexpression or COL3A1 knockdown exerted protective effects on AS and/or plaque instability. Notably, VSMC-specific FTO deletion promoted VSMC migration in atherosclerotic lesions in ApoE-/- AS model mice, whereas VSMC-specific YTHDF2 overexpression had the opposite effect. Overall, the in vitro and in vivo evidence highlights the critical role of the FTO/YTHDF2/COL3A1 axis in VSMC migration, AS, and plaque instability, suggesting that targeting the FTO/YTHDF2/COL3A1 axis in VSMCs may be a novel and promising therapeutic strategy for the treatment and prevention of AS and plaque instability.© 2026. Science China Press.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42548706 is a review article
Local ablation triggers anti-tumor response and is regarded as an encouraging treatment combined with immunotherapy for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Irreversible electroporation (IRE) is a novel ablative technique eliminating tumor cells by electroporation, however, the characteristics of IRE-induced immune microenvironment and underlying mechanism remain unclear.We developed an orthotopic immunocompetent HCC mouse model and performed incomplete IRE-ablation. The post-IRE immune microenvironment was characterized by RNA sequencing, single-cell RNA sequencing, flow cytometry, and multiplex immunofluorescence. Cytokine-chemokine array and organoid-immune cell co-culture were used to investigate the functions and underlying mechanism. The combination therapy of IRE and anti-PD-1 was examined for HCC treatment in mice.IRE initially inhibited HCC growth, but tumors rapidly regrew by day 14 after ablation, with increased Ly6G+ Polymorphonuclear (PMN) Myeloid-Derived Suppressor Cells (MDSCs) infiltration and CD8+ T cell exhaustion. In patient-derived HCC organoids, IRE-induced CD8+ T cell cytotoxicity was suppressed by MDSCs. Ly6G antibody-mediated PMN-MDSC depletion repressed HCC regrowth after IRE-ablation in vivo (1.29±0.12 vs 0.49±0.09 g, p<0.001). Mechanistically, HCC cells degraded CXCL10 mRNA via YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA binding protein F2 (YTHDF2), which activated MDSCs that led to CD8+ T cells exhaustion. Combined anti-PD-1 and IRE reduced tumor burden by 84.3% compared with IRE alone (0.22±0.08 vs 1.43±0.13 g, p<0.01), prolonged survival (day-60 survival: 93.33% vs 40%, p<0.001), and induced long-term anti-tumor immunity in mice. Four unresectable recurrent HCC patients treated with IRE plus anti-PD-1 therapy showed improved recurrence-free time than patients receiving IRE alone.PMN-MDSCs mediated immunosuppression that promoted HCC regrowth after incomplete IRE ablation. Combining anti-PD-1 therapy is a promising approach to eliminate post-ablation residual HCC, supporting evaluation in prospecitve clinical trials.Post-ablation recurrence remains a major challenge in HCC. Here, we show that although IRE initially activates CD8+ T cells but subsequently promotes PMN-MDSCs activation and CD8+ T-cell exhaustion through YTHDF2-mediated CXCL10 mRNA degradation, resulting in a suppressive tumor immune microenvironment (TIME). These findings identify a previously unrecognized mechanism of post-IRE tumor regrowth and provide a rationale for early combination with anti-PD-1 therapy. Although further prospective clinical validation is required, this work suggests that monitoring post-ablation immune changes and applying rational immunotherapy combinations may help optimize treatment strategies for patients with HCC undergoing local ablation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The 2021 WHO classification permits diagnosis of glioblastoma in IDH-wildtype diffuse astrocytic tumors with TERT promoter mutation, EGFR amplification, or chromosome 7 gain/10 loss, even without necrosis or microvascular proliferation. The clinical behavior of these molecularly defined glioblastomas (molGBM) remains uncertain.We retrospectively analyzed patients with molGBM treated at Hannover Medical School between 2017 and 2024. A contemporaneous histologically defined glioblastoma cohort (hisGBM) served as a control group in an approximately 1:3 ratio. MolGBM were stratified by histological grade and additionally compared with IDH-mutant astrocytomas of corresponding grade. Survival was assessed using Kaplan-Meier analysis, Cox regression, and propensity score matching.Thirty-four patients with molGBM and 103 with hisGBM were included. Compared with hisGBM, molGBM patients were younger (p < 0.001), had higher Karnofsky Performance Status (p < 0.001), and more often presented with seizures (p = 0.006), whereas focal neurological deficits were more frequent in hisGBM. MolGBM showed less contrast enhancement (p < 0.001) and lower Ki-67 indices (p < 0.001). Median overall survival was longer in molGBM (539 vs. 374 days; p = 0.032), but tumor group was not independently associated with survival after adjustment for age and KPS (HR 1.21, 95% CI 0.77-1.90; p = 0.411). In the matched cohort, overall survival did not differ significantly (517 vs. 468 days; p = 0.670). MolGBM had inferior survival to grade-corresponding IDH-mutant astrocytomas (p < 0.001).MolGBM shows a distinct clinical-radiological phenotype, while its apparent survival advantage over hisGBM is influenced by baseline clinical differences.Not applicable.© 2026. The Author(s).
Photoimmunotherapy (PIT) combines antibody specificity with light-activated cytotoxicity to enable precise, spatially and temporally confined cell depletion. However, the leading clinical-stage PIT agent, cetuximab-IR700, can induce inflammation, swelling, and edema that may restrict its use to oncology, likely due to activation of unbound conjugates in illuminated tissues and robust on-target tumor necrosis. To overcome these limitations, we introduce vertamax, a benzoporphyrin-based antibody-photosensitizer conjugate platform engineered to remain quenched until enzymatically activated within target cells, enabling more selective PIT. Vertamax-PIT demonstrated versatility across multiple antibody targets, including T cell (CD2, CD5) and tumor (EGFR) antigens. We show that CD5-directed vertamax-PIT selectively depletes T cells from healthy human skin biopsies, and pathogenic T cells from a single-patient biopsy of CTCL. EGFR-targeted vertamax-PIT inhibited tumor growth without detectable off-target toxicity in vivo, distinguishing it from IR700-PIT. These findings establish vertamax as an alternative and potentially safer PIT platform that may be applied in oncology, autoimmunity, and other settings where inflammation must be minimized.Copyright © 2026 Society for Investigative Dermatology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The GLP-1 receptor agonist semaglutide reduces clinically important kidney outcomes in people with type 2 diabetes and chronic kidney disease (CKD). We aimed to assess the pooled effects of semaglutide on kidney outcomes in prespecified analyses of participant-level data from the diverse populations of the SELECT, FLOW, and SOUL randomised placebo-controlled trials.Participants with CKD (FLOW) or atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (SELECT and SOUL) were randomly assigned semaglutide (once-weekly subcutaneous 1·0 mg [FLOW], once-weekly subcutaneous 2·4 mg [SELECT], or once-daily oral 14 mg [SOUL]) or matching placebo, added to standard of care. The primary outcome in this pooled analysis was time to first occurrence of a kidney composite, defined as onset of persistent 50% or greater reduction in estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), kidney failure (persistent eGFR <15 mL/min per 1·73 m2, or initiation of kidney replacement therapy), kidney-related death, or cardiovascular-related death. Safety was also assessed.The pooled participants from the trials (N=30 787) had a mean follow-up of 39·5-47·5 months. Among participants assigned to semaglutide, 973 first events of the primary kidney composite occurred compared with 1134 first events for placebo (hazard ratio [HR] 0·84 [95% CI 0·77-0·91]). First events of a narrower secondary kidney composite (excluding cardiovascular-related death from the primary outcome) were also reduced with semaglutide versus placebo (347 and 416, respectively; 0·80 [0·69-0·92]). Safety outcomes were overall similar between groups, and in line with other GLP-1 receptor agonist trials. Serious adverse events were numberically lower with semaglutide than with placebo.Data pooled from three large phase 3 trials suggest that semaglutide reduces the risk of major kidney outcomes in a broad population with cardio-kidney-metabolic disease while having a favourable risk-benefit profile. In people with cardio-kidney-metabolic disease, with and without diabetes, semaglutide (oral or injected) prevents kidney-related and cardiovascular complications and induces adverse events in line with GLP-1 receptor agonist studies, regardless of baseline characteristics within the cardio-kidney-metabolic spectrum. This was a participant-level analysis conducted in a large database of three randomised controlled trials of similar design and examining the same treatment, but there were some differences in participants' baseline characteristics, and in the dose and route of administration of treatment. This pooled analysis adds evidence for the benefit of GLP-1 receptor agonists in general, and semaglutide in particular, in a broad population of people with cardio-kidney-metabolic disease, suggesting that the benefit of semaglutide might not be explained only by its glycaemic effects, weight-management effects, or both.Novo Nordisk.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
Sepsis-induced myocardial injury is a life-threatening complication. Isoquercitrin (IQC), a natural flavonoid glycoside, exhibits anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic properties, yet its role in septic cardiomyopathy remains unclear.IQC targets were predicted via transcriptomics and molecular docking. LPS-induced AC16 cardiomyocyte injury and cecal ligation puncture (CLP) rat models were established. Cell viability and apoptosis were assessed by CCK-8 and flow cytometry. Inflammatory cytokines were measured using ELISA. Myocardial injury and fibrosis were evaluated via HE and Masson staining. Protein expression was analyzed by Western blot. EGFR knockdown and inhibitor (MTX-531) were applied for mechanistic validation.EGFR was identified as a high-affinity target of IQC, with PI3K-AKT being the most enriched pathway. In vitro, IQC restored cell viability, suppressed apoptosis, and reduced inflammation in LPS-stimulated AC16 cells-effects reversed by EGFR knockdown or PI3K/AKT inhibition. In vivo, IQC alleviated myocardial injury, fibrosis, and apoptosis in septic rats, accompanied by reduced inflammation and activated EGFR/PI3K/AKT signaling. These benefits were abolished by MTX-531.Isoquercitrin mitigates sepsis-induced myocardial injury by targeting the EGFR/PI3K/AKT pathway, thereby inhibiting inflammation and apoptosis. IQC represents a promising therapeutic candidate for sepsis-related cardiac damage.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Critical-sized bone defect repair remains a formidable challenge because conventional approaches cannot recapitulate the temporally coordinated cascade of endochondral ossification. Here, we report a biomimetic, temporally programmed cytokine delivery scaffold that integrates spatially defined nanofiber architecture with sequential biochemical activation to orchestrate orderly tissue regeneration. The scaffold comprises electrospun polycaprolactone nanofibers with an inner uniaxially aligned layer and an outer random layer. Interleukin-8 (IL-8), strategically loaded into the aligned fibers to reinstate early-stage chemotactic cues markedly diminished in adult bone defect repair, is released in a sustained manner during the initial 14 days, enhancing mesenchymal stem cell recruitment and initiating chondrogenic differentiation. At later stages, bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) encapsulated between the fiber layers is released on demand via near-infrared (NIR) stimulation, enabling temporally precise promotion of osteogenesis. In vivo, the staged delivery system led to a 72.1% greater bone volume fraction at 12 weeks compared to controls. IL-8-driven early cartilage formation and BMP-2-induced late-stage bone regeneration were consistent with upregulated expression of chondrogenic markers S100 (3.63-fold) and COL2 (1.57-fold) at 4 weeks and subsequently, osteogenic markers OCN (1.68-fold) and OPN (1.47-fold) at 12 weeks. By reinstating early molecular signals absent in conventional healing and coupling them with on-demand osteogenic stimulation, this programmable delivery strategy offers a potent and adaptable approach for regenerating critical-sized bone defects and potentially other complex tissues requiring staged repair.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) is a clinically validated target for B-cell malignancies, yet covalent inhibitors are limited by acquired resistance and cumulative off-target toxicities. To address these challenges, we employed a scaffold-hopping strategy from larotinib, by integrating a benzoyl hydrazine pharmacophore into the 4-aminoquinoline scaffold to explore a potential non-covalent binding mode. Systematic optimization yielded compound 10m, which exhibited moderate but promising BTK inhibitory activity (IC50 = 126.70 ± 16.69 nM), acceptable kinase selectivity with reduced activity against key off-targets of ibrutinib (EGFR, ITK, BMX, TEC), and potent antiproliferative activity in U-937 cells (IC50 = 0.89 ± 0.01 μM). Western blot analysis confirmed dose-dependent suppression of BTK phosphorylation (Tyr223). Flow cytometry revealed G0/G1 cell cycle arrest and concentration-dependent apoptosis induction. In the U-937 xenograft model, 10m achieved 95.5% tumor growth inhibition at 100 mg/kg i.p. without significant toxicity. Molecular docking studies showed that 10m retains the binding mode of larotinib while forming additional hydrogen bonds, consistent with a reversible binding mode supported by docking and positioned away from Cys481. These results validate the design strategy and position 10m as a promising lead for next-generation non-covalent BTK inhibitors for the treatment of hematologic malignancies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42566651
Anemia commonly accompanies chronic kidney disease, but the direction of the association between anemia and diabetic kidney disease remains uncertain. We examined the association using cross-sectional NHANES data and explored potential causal associations using 2-sample Mendelian randomization. We conducted a cross-sectional analysis of adults with type 2 diabetes from the 2009-2018 NHANES cycles. Survey-weighted logistic regression and restricted cubic spline analyses were used to evaluate the associations of anemia and hemoglobin levels with presumed DKD, albuminuria, and reduced eGFR. Two-sample Mendelian randomization was subsequently performed to explore potential causal associations between anemia-related phenotypes and DKD. Anemia was more prevalent among participants with presumed DKD than among those without presumed DKD (21.6% vs 9.6%). In survey-weighted regression models, anemia was associated with higher odds of presumed DKD, albuminuria, and reduced eGFR, whereas higher hemoglobin levels were inversely associated with these outcomes. Restricted cubic spline analyses indicated L-shaped associations. Mendelian randomization estimates suggested potential associations of genetically predicted general anemia, iron deficiency anemia, and vitamin B12 deficiency anemia with DKD; however, significant heterogeneity was observed across SNP-specific estimates. Anemia was associated with higher odds of presumed DKD, albuminuria, and reduced eGFR among adults with type 2 diabetes. Mendelian randomization analyses provided suggestive evidence of potential causal associations between anemia-related phenotypes and DKD. However, the cross-sectional design, relaxed SNP-selection threshold, and significant heterogeneity warrant cautious interpretation and independent validation.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) is often present on the cell surface of a wide variety human malignancies, including non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), glioblastoma (GBM), pancreatic ductal carcinoma (PDC), and castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC). Efforts to optimize immunotherapies targeting EGFR are limited by murine intolerance of human EGFR. To overcome this obstacle, we developed C57BL/6 mice in which a truncated variant of human EGFR (hEGFRt), lacking the ligand binding domain and cytoplasmic domain, is expressed from the CAG regulatory elements comprised of the CMV enhancer, β-actin promoter, and β-globin poly-adenylation signals. Cetuximab, a high-affinity, clinically available anti-human EGFR antibody, retains affinity for hEGFRt. The hEGFRt cDNA in the CAG-hEGFRt transgene is flanked by loxP sites to enable its excision thereby reducing interaction of hEGFRt-directed immunotherapies with normal tissues. The CAG-hEGFRt(f/f) transgene is abundantly expressed in hematopoietic lymphoid and myeloid cells, with low-level expression evident also in non-hematopoietic liver, lung, kidney, and brain. Mx1-Cre-mediated transgene excision in adult mice reduces hEGFRt ~ 5-fold in blood mononuclear cells. CAG-hEGFRt(f/f) adult mice are tolerant of syngeneic NSCLC, GBM, prostate, and PDC lines expressing hEGFRt. These mice retain hEGFRt tolerance after transgene deletion. CAG-hEGFRt(f/f) mice provide a new and important tool for the development of immunotherapies targeting hEGFR.Copyright: © 2026 Barberi et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Infections are frequent precipitants of acute decompensated heart failure (ADHF) and may alter decongestive trajectories in patients with cardiorenal syndrome type 1 (CRS1), it may reduce diuretic efficacy and increase the risk of kidney injury. However, the impact of infection on decongestion and kidney outcomes in CRS1 remains unclear.We conducted a prospective cohort study including 256 patients with CRS1 hospitalized at a tertiary center (2022-2024). Patients were stratified by the presence of infection, defined as clinical suspicion plus antibiotic therapy. The primary outcome was successful decongestion, assessed by symptoms, biomarkers (BNP/CA-125), and POCUS findings. Secondary outcomes included major adverse kidney events at 10 and 30 days (MAKE: death, kidney replacement therapy [KRT], or ≥25% eGFR decline).Seventy-two patients (28.1%) had infection, presenting with higher BNP (13,405 vs. 25,264 pg/mL, p = 0.012) and lower PaO2 (45 vs. 65.5 mmHg, p = 0.019). Furosemide exposure was comparable (600 vs. 580 mg, p = 0.62). Successful decongestion occurred in 61.4% of patients with infection vs. 59.8% without infection (p = 0.83). Infection was not independently associated with decongestion (aOR 1.28, 95% CI 0.65-2.51) or MAKE-30 (aOR 1.26, 95% CI 0.57-2.79).In CRS1, infection was associated with more severe baseline congestion but did not compromise decongestion rates or increase short-term MAKE. These findings support the notion that achieving decongestion is feasible in patients with ADHF due to infection without an incremental risk of MAKE.Copyright: © 2026 Chávez-Iñiguez et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
NKX2-1 (thyroid transcription factor 1, TTF-1) is a homeodomain transcription factor that plays critical roles in the development and function of the thyroid, lung and forebrain. Here, we report the crystal structure of the NKX2-1 homeodomain bound to a 19 bp DNA duplex containing two palindromically arranged NK2-recognition motifs, refined to 3.26 Å resolution. The structure reveals two homeodomains bound to a single DNA duplex and demonstrates that the overall fold and DNA-binding interactions are highly conserved relative to those of NKX2-5. Comparison with NKX2-5 further shows that the amino-acid residues that differ between the two homeodomains are located away from the protein-DNA interface, suggesting that functional differences between these transcription factors are unlikely to arise from distinct DNA-recognition mechanisms. These findings provide a structural framework for understanding DNA recognition by NKX2-1 and for interpreting the effects of pathogenic variants within its homeodomain.
Deciphering the mechanisms that govern lineage commitment of human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) is essential for optimizing differentiation strategies. Here, we uncover the role of the mitochondrial protein OCIAD2 in hPSC fate decisions. We show that OCIAD2 is transiently upregulated during mesendoderm differentiation in response to TGFβ/Activin A signaling. OCIAD2 depletion disrupted TGFβ and WNT signaling, impaired mesendoderm specification, and resulted in an incomplete epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Furthermore, OCIAD2 loss reduced mitochondrial dynamics and fatty acid oxidation, indicating dysregulated lipid metabolism. Transcriptome and biochemical analysis of OCIAD2-knockout (KO) and -overexpressing (OV) hESCs identified OCIAD2 as a positive regulator of TGFβ signaling. Supplementation with acetate alongside Wnt3a increased SMAD2/3 acetylation and restored mesendoderm differentiation in KO. We propose that OCIAD2 integrates metabolic cues with TGFβ signaling to regulate EMT. This study provides new insight into how mitochondrial proteins influence lineage commitment, highlighting broader implications for developmental biology and tumor progression.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Plastic additives are pervasive pollutants that readily leach into water, affecting human health; however, their toxicological risk assessment remains limited. This study used network toxicology to identify disease-associated common targets in plastic additives, including benzotriazole, bisphenol A, 2,4-Di-tert-butylphenol, mirex, diphenyl ether, bisphenol S, dibutyl phthalate, PFNA, and PFBS. The core targets identified using network toxicology for these plastic additives were AKT1, PTGS2, BCL2, ESR1, and GSK3B. In addition, an integrated in silico toxicity assessment of selected plastic additives using molecular docking, MM/GBSA analysis, and molecular dynamics simulation was performed to assess neurotoxicity, reproductive toxicity, and carcinogenic potential. Molecular docking revealed the high-scoring docked complexes as PTGS2-benzotriazole (-5.047 kcal/mol), PTGS2-bisphenol A (-5.264 kcal/mol), PTGS2-diphenyl ether (-5.078 kcal/mol), PTGS2-bisphenol S (-5.519 kcal/mol), PTGS2-2,4-di-tert-butylphenol (-5.565 kcal/mol), ESR1-benzotriazole (-5.339 kcal/mol), and ESR1-2,4-di-tert-butylphenol (-5.626 kcal/mol). The stability of highly interacting complexes was then assessed through MM/GBSA calculations and molecular dynamics simulations. A more negative ΔGBind score in MM/GBSA analysis indicated a stronger and more favourable interaction. In silico analysis of plastic additive-biological target interactions identified potential carcinogenic, reproductive, and neurological health hazards and revealed key molecular pathways underlying plastic additive-induced toxicity. Further in vitro/in vivo studies are required to validate these computational findings.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Urate transporter 1 (URAT1, encoded by SLC22A12) is a key mediator of renal urate reabsorption and an important pharmacological target for urate-related disorders. Sodium butyrate (BuNa), a gut microbiota derived short-chain fatty acid, has been implicated in host metabolic regulation, but its role in renal urate transport remains unclear. Here, using molecular docking, cellular thermal shift assays, immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry and multi-omics analyses, we identified free fatty acid receptor 2 (FFAR2) as a direct target of BuNa in renal proximal tubular HK2 cells . BuNa binding upregulated FFAR2 and promoted URAT1 expression and urate uptake via an FFAR2-dependent pathway. Mechanistically, BuNa/FFAR2 signaling acts via GNAQ to activate PLCβ, generating diacylglycerol and engaging a PKC-dependent p38 MAPK/ELK1 cascade that upregulates arrestin beta 2 (ARRB2). ARRB2 directly binds to IκB, preventing its phosphorylation-dependent degradation, thereby stabilizing IκB and inhibiting NF-κB nuclear translocation. Within the SLC22A12 promoter, NF-κB (RELA/p50) and hepatocyte nuclear factor 1 beta (HNF1β) compete for overlapping binding sites. By blocking NF-κB nuclear entry, BuNa relieves this competition, permitting HNF1β-driven SLC22A12 transcription. Thus, BuNa enhances URAT1-mediated urate reabsorption in HK2 cells via an FFAR2/GNAQ/p38 MAPK/ELK1/ARRB2 axis that stabilizes IκB, suppresses NF-κB, and relieves the competitive binding between NF-κB and HNF1β on the SLC22A12 promoter. These findings establish a previously unrecognized gut microbiota-kidney axis linking microbial BuNa to renal urate homeostasis through a novel transcriptional regulatory circuit.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Dapagliflozin shows variable renoprotective efficacy in patients with type 2 diabetic kidney disease (T2DKD). A retrospective clinical analysis confirmed marked interindividual variability in its urinary protein-lowering effects. To investigate the mechanism, drug affinity responsive target stability (DARTS) combined with quantitative proteomics was applied for target identification. Subsequent in vivo and in vitro validation suggested that GSK3β acts as a mediator of dapagliflozin-associated nephroprotection. Dapagliflozin directly bound and partially inhibited GSK3β, and GSK3β activity influenced podocyte protection. To translate findings into clinical relevance, a prospective trial was conducted. The GSK3B rs60393216 polymorphism was associated with urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio (UACR) reduction after dapagliflozin therapy. These findings suggest that GSK3β contributes to the renoprotective effects of dapagliflozin and that GSK3B polymorphisms may influence therapeutic responses in T2DKD.© 2026 Published by Elsevier Inc.
Despite hyposmia being a dominant non-motor manifestation of Parkinson's disease (PD), its underlying driving mechanisms are poorly defined. The redox protein Thioredoxin-1 (Trx-1) offers neuroprotection against various insults; however, its potential involvement in the neural proliferation in the subventricular zone (SVZ) and neural differentiation in the olfactory bulb (OB) related to MPTP-induced olfactory dysfunction have not been previously established. Our research demonstrates that when Trx-1 is downregulated in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc), MPTP-triggered olfactory deficits are significantly intensified. A key anatomical discovery in our study is the existence of projections from the SNpc to the SVZ. We established that the MPTP-driven death of SNpc dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons correlates with decreased dopamine D1 receptor (D1R) levels in the SVZ, an effect that is magnified by the loss of Trx-1. Alongside D1R reductions, MPTP suppressed a cascade of SVZ signaling molecules (phosphorylated PKA, Wnt3a, β-catenin, Pax6, cyclin D1, and CDK4), with Trx-1 deficiency causing even steeper declines. Furthermore, Trx-1 knockdown hindered the generation of immature neurons and disrupted DAergic neuronal differentiation within the OB. Collectively, our findings suggest that reduced Trx-1 expression in the SNpc may contribute to PD-related olfactory deficits, potentially via inhibiting SVZ neural proliferation, decreasing immature and mature neuron populations, and disrupted differentiation of OB immature neurons. By accelerating MPTP-triggered degeneration of DAergic neurons in the SNpc, Trx-1 downregulation reduces the SVZ of DAergic input. This disruption impairs D1R-mediated the neural proliferation in the SVZ, as well as the maturation and differentiation of immature neurons in OB, ultimately driving the progression of olfactory dysfunction in a PD mouse model.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Glypican-3 (GPC3) is a heparan sulfate proteoglycan that is highly expressed in hepatocellular carcinoma and promotes tumor progression through Wnt3a/β-catenin signaling. However, how the nanoscale organization of GPC3 at the cell surface controls signaling remains unclear. Here, we combined nano-resolution MINFLUX imaging, single-molecule tracking, and functional assays to define the spatial architecture and dynamics of GPC3 on hepatoma cells. We found that GPC3 exists as both single molecules and nanoscale clusters and switches between confined and free diffusions on the plasma membrane. Heparan sulfate (HS) chains create nanoscale corrals that limit GPC3 movement, whereas removal of HS increases diffusive heterogeneity and disrupts confinement. Wnt3a stimulation induces the formation of higher-order GPC3 assemblies and enhances β-catenin signaling, while loss of HS markedly reduces this response. MINFLUX DNA-PAINT further revealed that HS chains orchestrate the spatial distribution of Wnt3a and promote its association with the Wnt receptor, Frizzled-1, an essential step for pathway activation. Collectively, these findings reveal that HS controls the nanoscale organization and dynamics of GPC3 to promote Wnt receptor assembly and efficient β-catenin signaling in hepatoma cells.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a prevalent respiratory disease characterized by airflow limitation, with genetic factors playing a crucial role in its pathogenesis. Effective-component compatibility of Bufei Yishen formula Ⅲ (ECC-BYF Ⅲ) has been shown to effectively ameliorate COPD symptoms; however, its underlying molecular mechanism remains elusive.To investigate the intervention mechanism of ECC-BYF Ⅲ on COPD and identify hub genes.Using the GSEA method, which retains all gene information, and exhibits robustness under small-sample conditions as well as high statistical power, COPD-related pathways were identified. Among the genes contained in those pathways, hub genes were identified by protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis, cytoHubba algorithm, etc. The reliability of the identified hub genes was validated by independent datasets, qRT-PCR in rats with COPD, HUVEC and MH-S cells, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations (MD), and surface plasmon resonance (SPR).Compared with COPD rats, ECC-BYF Ⅲ could ameliorate pathological changes and improve lung function. Then, utilizing the RNA-seq data from COPD rats, 106 disease related pathways were identified in the COPD group when contrasted with the control group (FDR < 0.05), of which 72 pathways were reversed after ECC-BYF Ⅲ intervention. Of the 3081 genes in those reversal pathways, 395 genes were differentially dysregulated in the COPD rat samples as opposed to the control samples (FDR < 0.05). Then, six genes (Gsk3b, Ctnnb1, Pten, Met, Pik3r3, and Erbb2) were identified by PPI network analysis, cytoHubba algorithm, and GeneCards database. Two hub genes (Ctnnb1 and Pik3r3) were well confirmed in independent datasets, the COPD rat model, HUVEC and MH-S cells, molecular docking, MD, and SPR.Two COPD hub genes were identified, and their regulation by ECC-BYF Ⅲ was demonstrated. Our results might provide a basis for the study of the mechanism of COPD, and its prevention and treatment guided by traditional Chinese medicine.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42534835 is a review article
Broader research and translational use of patient-derived organoids (PDOs) in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remain constrained by complex and costly culture requirements. Here, we developed a conditional transgenic strategy to generate self-sustaining primary PDAC organoids and explored its feasibility for therapeutic evaluation.We established a proof-of-concept PDAC organoid biobank (n = 10). Using a doxycycline-inducible lentiviral Tet-On system, we engineered organoids to express essential cytokines RSPO1 and WNT3A, enabling growth in supplement-depleted media. We then performed exploratory assessments of FOLFIRINOX-mimetic chemotherapy and EPHA2-targeted CAR-T cells in transgenic organoids, together with histopathological and clinicopathological co-analysis.Doxycycline-induced RSPO1/WNT3A expression rescued the impaired growth and passaging caused by exogenous cytokine depletion. In simplified media, transgenic organoids retained patient-specific histological and molecular features. Sensitivity to FOLFIRINOX-mimetic treatment and EPHA2 CAR-T cells varied among different patients, and the in vitro responses showed exploratory concordance with the corresponding clinical courses in a small subset.This conditional transgenic approach reduces culture complexity while preserving key phenotypic and functional characteristics of PDAC organoids, providing a feasible proof-of-concept platform for exploratory evaluation of chemotherapy and immunotherapy responses.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Pancreatic cancer (PC) is known to be a highly fatal malignancy, and elucidating new molecular mechanisms is of great importance. In this study, we investigated NECTIN4 (PVRL4), which is associated with poor prognosis, via bioinformatics approach. We used following tools and datasets: For differential gene expression analysis, TCGA TARGET GTEx study on UCSC Xena, GSE183795, GSE71729 and GSE196009 GEO datasets; for associations with clinicopathological and promoter methylation features, UALCAN; for correlations with overall survival (OS), disease-free survival (DFS) gene chip database, and for correlations with OS and relapse-free survival (RFS) RNAseq database in the Kaplan-Meier (KM) plotter; for correlations with OS and Progression-Free Interval (PFI), DoSurvive; for immune infiltration correlations, TIMER3; for expression changes in hotspot mutations, GEPIA 3; for potentially related pathways, diseases, and processes, the Gscore online tool; for gene alterations detections, cBioPortal; and identifying potential targeting miRNAs, miRDB, TargetScanHuman 8.0, ENCORI, and DoSurvive. NECTIN4 (PVRL4) is upregulated in primary pancreatic adenocarcinoma in TCGA TARGET GTEx study (log2FC=2.015633, adj.P.Val=4.62E-21) and in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas in GSE183795 (log2FC=0.726, adj.P.Val=10-16.895) GSE196009 (log2FC=2.807, adj.P.Val=10-3.855) GSE71729 (log2FC= 1.227, adj.P.Val=10-10.318) datasets, and may be associated with unfavorable OS (p = 3.63E-02) and PFI (p = 8.09E-03) independent of age at diagnosis, sex, and stage in DoSurvive. In KM plotter RNA seq database, increased NECTIN4 (PVRL4) expression was statistically significantly associated only with shortened OS (p = 0.008). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) expressions are higher in the following traits than in others: In Asians compared to normals (p = 4.949700E-02) and Caucasian (p = 4.480000E-03); in chronic pancreatitis patients from normals (p=3.456300E-02); in grade 2 (p = 2.420600E-04) and grade 3 (p = 1.875500E-03) from grade 1; in TP53 mutants from nonmutants (p = 7.6379999999987E-05). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) correlates positively or negatively with many immune cell types, some of which are also associated with OS. NECTIN4 is upregulated in KRAS (log2FC=1.78, p = 1.05E-17), TP53 (log2FC=0.959, p = 1.22E-05), SMAD4 (log2FC=1.02, p = 0.000111), CDKN2A (log2FC=0.668, p = 0.0144), and RNF43 (log2FC=0.917, p = 0.0393) mutant samples. NECTIN4 (PVRL4) is associated with many pathways, processes, and diseases these may be related to PC. Six patients have amplification, and one patient has a splice mutation. hsa-miR-329-3p and hsa-miR-5586-5p may be potential negative regulatory miRNAs of NECTIN4 (PVRL4). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) may be associated with many pathways awaiting experimental illumination in PC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Motivated by the rising incidence of cancers at younger ages, this study compares tumor genomic alterations between adolescents and young adults (AYAs; 18-39 years) and non-AYAs (40 years and older) and explores the relationship with continuous age in patients with relapsed/refractory ovarian, breast, and colorectal cancers accrued to the NCI-MATCH trial.Tumor genomic profiles generated by a next-generation sequencing 143-gene panel (NCI-MATCH assay, v2) were analyzed for association with age (AYA/total: 21/455 ovarian, 27/576 breast, 43/759 colorectal cancers). For each gene, AYA and non-AYA DNA alteration proportions were compared (Fisher exact test) and alteration association with continuous age (logistic regression) was evaluated (false discovery rate‑adjusted P value <.1 statistically significant). For colorectal cancer, sex-stratified analysis was also performed.No significant AYA versus non-AYA differences were observed in the prevalence of gene mutations (single nucleotide variant [SNV]/indel). A significant association of gene amplification with AYAs (odds ratio [OR], 95% CI) was CCND1 (0.2, 0.1-0.4), favoring AYAs in breast cancer. Examining age as a continuous variable, significant associations of gene mutations (SNV/indel) with older age, expressed as 5-year OR (OR [95% CI]), were observed: TP53 (1.3 [1.1 to 1.4]), ovarian cancer; CDH1 (1.4 [1.2 to 1.6]) and PIK3CA (1.1 [1.1 to 1.2]), breast cancer; and BRAF (1.4 [1.2 to 1.7]), female colorectal cancer. Associations with younger age included SMAD4 (0.8 [0.7 to 0.9]), male colorectal cancer. Significant associations of gene amplification with age (continuous) were as follows: CCNE1 (1.3 [1.1 to 1.6]), older ovarian cancer, and CCND1 (0.8 [0.8 to 0.9]), younger breast cancer.Comparing AYAs with non-AYAs among patients having relapsed/refractory disease, no significant differences in SNV/indel prevalence were observed, but CCND1 amplifications were more prevalent in AYA breast cancer. For several genes, DNA alterations were associated with continuous age and may depend on sex in colorectal cancer.
Pelvic organ prolapse (POP) is a prevalent condition characterized by weakened pelvic floor tissues, significantly impacting women's quality of life. Current treatments, including synthetic meshes and native tissue repair, face challenges of high recurrence rates and complications. This study developed a novel tissue-engineered strategy utilizing a decellularized human amniotic membrane (HAAM) scaffold seeded with autologous adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells (ADSCs) and vaginal wall fibroblasts (HVFs) to construct a bioactive pelvic ligament equivalent. We first validated the successful preparation of HAAM with preserved extracellular matrix integrity and characterized the phenotypic markers of ADSCs and HVFs. In a rat abdominal wall defect model, the HAAM+ADSCs+HVFs composite demonstrated superior tissue regeneration and integration, reduced fibrosis, and effective modulation of the host immune microenvironment -evidenced by enhanced repair and decreased infiltration of pro-inflammatory cells -compared to all control groups (including HAAM alone and single-cell groups). Transcriptomic analysis revealed that the composite treatment promoted extracellular matrix organization and collagen synthesis while suppressing matrix degradation (MMP2/MMP9) and inflammatory pathways. Most importantly, mechanistic studies identified TGFB2 as the key paracrine mediator through which ADSCs exert their effects: TGFB2 inhibition abolished ADSCs-induced improvements in HVFs proliferation, migration, and anti-apoptosis, while its overexpression replicated these benefits. Western blot confirmed that TGFB2 coordinately upregulates COL1A1/COL3A1 and downregulates MMP2/MMP9 to restore ECM homeostasis. These comprehensive findings demonstrate that the HAAM-based ADSCs-HVFs composite promotes functional tissue regeneration via TGFB2-mediated mechanisms, offering a safe, effective, and regenerative therapeutic strategy with strong translational potential for POP.Copyright © 2026 Dong, Zhang, Duan and Xia.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42558047
Periodontitis is a long-term inflammatory disease of the gums that damages the tissues and bone supporting the teeth. Recent studies suggest that changes in cellular metabolism may influence immune responses during chronic inflammation; however, the contribution of fumarate-associated transcriptional programs to periodontitis remains unclear. In this study, we integrated bulk transcriptomic data from human periodontal tissues with single-cell RNA sequencing data to identify fumarate-associated genes and cell clusters associated with periodontitis. Our analyses revealed a fumarate-associated immune regulatory signature that was enriched in periodontitis. Three genes, C3, CXCR4, and MEF2C, were consistently increased in diseased tissues and showed similar expression trends in a ligature-induced mouse model of periodontitis. These genes showed transcript-level diagnostic potential and were predominantly expressed in immune cells, including myeloid cells and neutrophils, as well as stromal cells. In addition, computational drug screening and molecular docking highlighted carbenoxolone and a CXCR4 antagonist (USL311) as potential candidates for future study. Overall, this study provides an integrative view of fumarate-associated immunometabolic alterations in periodontitis and identifies candidate transcriptomic markers and therapeutic hypotheses that warrant further experimental validation.Copyright: © 2026 Liu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Over the decades, shifts in human lifestyle have led to alterations in dietary habits. The consumption of diets low in fiber and high in fat and sugar results in the production of carcinogenic metabolites during digestion. The food we consume undergoes a complex series of processes involving digestion and excretion, engaging various internal organs within the human body. The DNA and MiRNA present in food are crucial for sustaining human health. Damage to human organs can lead to the development of cancer cells. Among various cancers, Colorectal Cancer (CRC) is the 3rd most common cancer that contributes to the increase in the mortality rate worldwide.One of the better ways for early CRC diagnosis is through Genomic Profiling. Frequent mutations in the genes APC, TP53, KRAS, PIK3CA, and SMAD4 are observed in the collected samples, contributing to CRC. An effort has been made in the proposed work to improve classification and prediction by using a deep ensemble learning approach based on a self-attention-based stacked bidirectional LSTM, optimized with the Parallel-Whale Optimization Algorithm (WOA) for global convergence, following a feature selection process. Furthermore, the survival analysis of CRC patients is performed using the DeepSurv technique to assess treatment effectiveness and patient care.The performance of the proposed model is evaluated using various metrics for stage-based colorectal cancer prediction, and a comparative analysis is conducted to validate against benchmarking techniques, resulting in improved classification and prediction accuracy.This study may help physicians detect CRC earlier and improve patient management.Copyright © 2026 Supriya and Anitha.
Myocardial ischemia (MI) causes diverse pathological injuries, and pharmacological intervention remains a key therapeutic approach. Tanshinone IIA (Tan IIA), a principal active compound derived from the traditional Chinese medicine Danshen, is clinically used in the form of sodium tanshinone IIA sulfonate for the treatment of ischemic heart disease. However, its precise molecular mechanisms and targets are not fully understood.This study aimed to explore the targets and mechanisms of Tan IIA against MI in vitro and in vivo.In this study, mouse models of MI induced by left anterior descending artery ligation and isoproterenol were established to validate the therapeutic effects of Tan IIA on MI. We then reanalyzed the GSE1145 dataset of human cardiac tissues and integrated network pharmacology, molecular docking, and phosphoproteomics to screen potential target proteins of Tan IIA. Subsequently, the affinity of Tan IIA for its target was validated using gene knockdown models and multiple techniques, including cellular thermal shift assay, drug affinity responsive target stability assay, biolayer interferometry, and molecular dynamics simulations.Fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1) was identified as a novel target of Tan IIA, with binding assays showing a specific interaction and a dissociation constant of 13.8 μM. Site-directed mutagenesis further demonstrated that Tan IIA binds directly to the Gln284 residue of FGFR1 and promotes trans-autophosphorylation at Y653/Y654. Mechanistically, Tan IIA activates the downstream FRS2-MAPK pathway to inhibit autophagy, whereas in vitro enzyme assays indicate that it also limits the catalytic turnover of kinase domains. This unique modulatory profile defines Tan IIA as an extracellular domain-directed allosteric modulator that dissociates receptor phosphorylation from steady-state enzymatic flux to effectively provide cardioprotection.This study identifies FGFR1 as a direct molecular target of Tan IIA, establishing a target-specific mechanism underlying its cardioprotective effects and providing a mechanistic basis for the development of precision therapeutic strategies for MI.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Aortic dissection (AD) is a life-threatening cardiovascular disease with exceedingly high mortality, particularly during the acute phase. Ubiquitination modification is implicated in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular diseases through diverse biological processes. However, the role of TRIM9, an E3 ubiquitin ligase, in AD remains unexplored. In this study, the expression profiles of TRIM9 and SMAD4 were analyzed using clinical samples, as well as Angiotensin II (Ang II)-induced mouse and human aortic endothelial cell (HAEC) models. Endothelial barrier function in AD was assessed through CCK-8 assays, vascular permeability measurements, immunofluorescence staining, hematoxylin-eosin and Verhoeff's van Gieson staining, and Western blot analysis. The underlying molecular mechanisms were elucidated using quantitative real-time PCR, immunoprecipitation (IP), co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). TRIM9 was markedly overexpressed, whereas SMAD4 was significantly downregulated in AD. Knockdown of TRIM9 attenuated endothelial permeability, preserved the endothelial barrier integrity, and inhibited pyroptosis both in vivo and in vitro. Mechanistically, TRIM9 promoted the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of SMAD4, thereby exacerbating AD progression. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that elevated TRIM9 expression aggravates AD progression through SMAD4 destabilization, offering novel therapeutic insights for AD management.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
DNA methylation might influence the expression of genes that regulate coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) progression. This work explored the significance of DNA methylation of 7 genes (TAC1, CDO1, HOXA9, ZFP42, SOX17, RASSF1A, and SHOX2) in blood circulating free DNA (cfDNA) in differentiating COVID-19 infections and recoveries. The correlation with changes in the proportion of immune cell populations in the recovery period was analyzed.18 COVID-19-infected, 65 COVID-19-recovered, and 11 uninfected individuals were included. DNA methylation expression was determined by quantitative multiplex methylation-specific PCR (qMSP). The immune function of the recovered group versus uninfected group was evaluated by full-spectrum flow cytometry.The infected population showed a higher methylation positivity rate for 7 genes compared to the uninfected/recovered population. A model was constructed to distinguish the infected patients from uninfected/recovered individuals using the methylation status of 7 genes, with a sensitivity, specificity and area under curve (AUC) of 0.889, 0.842 and 0.931, respectively. The results of flow cytometry revealed that CD8+ T cells and CD38+ CD8+ T cells were significantly upregulated in recovered individuals compared to those in uninfected individuals. DNA methylation was correlated with immune cell changes, with a significant increase in the percentage of T cells, PD-1+ function CD4+ T cells, TCRγδ+ cells, and CD38+ NKT cells upon an increase in 7 gene methylation positivity.This work revealed the significance of 7 gene methylation in the diagnosis of COVID-19 recovery, and demonstrated that these genes were significant in evaluating the immune function during the recovery period.Copyright (c) 2026 Xiao Xiao, Ren Xu, Chaoxiang Du, Jun Yin, Beibei Xin, Zhonghe Ke, Xiyan Li, Hao Zhang, Xinyu Chen.
It has been hypothesized that age‑related declines in skeletal muscle and vascular function in females may be partly estrogen‑dependent. This study investigated skeletal muscle protein expression of estrogen receptor α (ERα), estrogen receptor β (ERβ), and G protein-coupled estrogen receptor 1 (GPER1), and their association with proteins involved in redox regulation and vascular function, in relation to age, menopausal status, and lifelong physical activity. Skeletal muscle biopsies were obtained from 107 healthy females aged 19-70 years, including 26 postmenopausal females who were lifelong exercise trained. Protein expression of ERα, ERβ, GPER1, and downstream redox‑ and vascular‑related proteins was quantified. Age‑ and menopause‑related differences, associations between protein targets, and effects of lifelong exercise were examined. ERα protein expression was lower in older females with a 48% lower expression in the ≥ 55 years age group compared with the < 30-year group. GPER1 protein expression was 22% lower across all older age groups compared with the < 30-year group. ERβ expression was reduced in mid‑life (45-59 years) but not in the oldest age group. Both ERα and ERβ were positively correlated with endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) expression, whereas GPER1 showed no association with eNOS. ERβ expression was associated with pro‑oxidative NOX2 expression. Aging in females is associated with a lower ERα and GPER1 protein expression in skeletal muscle. Furthermore, lower ER expression by aging is associated with a lower eNOS expression, indicating associations with proteins involved in nitric oxide-related redox regulation in skeletal muscle in aged females.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is a biliary cancer with a poor prognosis and marked chemoresistance. The transcription factor SOX17, which is essential for cholangiocyte differentiation, is frequently downregulated in CCA, as is the case with several tumor suppressor genes. This study provides a proof-of-concept for further development of cellular therapeutic strategies to restore SOX17 expression in CCA cells. For this aim, we used EGI-1 cells as the target cell model derived from extrahepatic CCA. Recombinant Tat-SOX17 protein was first produced in bacteria and purified using Ni-NTA affinity columns and asymmetric flow-field-flow fractionation. Tat-SOX17 entered EGI-1 cells and reached their nucleus. The addition of the α-fetoprotein signal peptide (AFPsp) to the chimeric protein enabled the efficient secretion of the fusion protein formed by AFPsp, SOX17, and reverse Tat (TatR) by donor cells. For the production of secretome enriched in AFPsp-SOX17-TatR protein, HEK293T cells, derived from embryonic kidney, were used. In EGI-1 cells cultured in the presence of this secretome, target gene expression, cell cycle progression, apoptosis, proliferation, colony formation, and cell migration were assessed. Protein expression and localization were analyzed by Western blotting and immunofluorescence. AFPsp-SOX17-TatR enters EGI-1 cells, reaches their nucleus, and modulates the expression of SOX17-dependent genes, such as ABCB1 and ABCG2. Moreover, a marked reduction in proliferation and colony-forming ability was found. In contrast, no significant effect on cell cycle progression, apoptosis, or cell migration was observed. Similar treatment of immortalized human cholangiocytes also increased their SOX17 content, resulting in upregulation of the cholangiolar marker cytokeratin 7 (CK7), but did not affect their proliferation rate. In conclusion, using chimeric proteins such as AFPsp-SOX17-TatR, which contain components for secretion from donor cells and entry into target cancer cells, can provide a promising approach for treating tumors such as CCA, which are characterized by reduced expression of tumor suppressor genes, including SOX17.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study explores a stem-cell-based approach for diabetes treatment by enhancing the viability and functionality of insulin-producing cells (IPCs) derived from stem cells of the apical papilla (SCAP). Although SCAP can differentiate into IPCs, limited cell survival remains a challenge. To address this, the proliferation enhancer WS6 was incorporated into Eudragit RS100 nanoparticles (NPs) using microfluidics. The WS6-loaded NPs were characterized for size, charge, PDI, morphology, stability, and drug loading. An MTT assay was performed as a preliminary screening method to evaluate the cytocompatibility of blank-NPs and to optimize treatment concentration. SCAP cells were treated with free WS6 or WS6-loaded NPs, and cellular uptake of NPs was evaluated using flow cytometry and fluorescence imaging. Additionally, the viability of treated cells was determined by propidium iodide (PI) and trypan blue. Prior to differentiation, definitive endoderm formation was assessed through SOX17 and FOXA2 expressions. After differentiation into IPCs, maturation markers such as insulin, C-peptide, PDX-1, NKX2.2, and NKX6.1 were examined, and apoptosis assays measured cell viability. Functional insulin secretion was tested using an in vitro glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS) assay. Results showed that WS6-loaded NPs significantly improved SCAP viability, increased healthy cell percentages, and enhanced IPC maturation. Treated IPCs demonstrated functional insulin secretion and improved glucose regulation. Overall, WS6-loaded NPs represent a promising approach to enhance IPC proliferation and generation for diabetes therapy.Copyright: © 2026 Abuarqoub et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42547983
This study investigated the effects of BPAF on the indicators related to inflammatory response and explored the roles of G protein estrogen membrane receptor 1 (GPER1) in this process. The results found that BPAF promoted the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1β, IL-8 and TNF-α, increased the protein expression of IL-1β and IL-6, and upregulated the relative mRNA levels of inflammatory related genes in Jurkat cells. In vivo SD rat experiments also found that BPAF exposure significantly upregulated the levels of serum inflammatory cytokines, elevated the relative mRNA expression of inflammatory related genes in immune organs, and induced the damage of immune organs. In addition, BPAF upregulated the protein expression of GPER1 and elevated the relative mRNA levels of PI3K, AKT and MAPKs genes in Jurkat cells. GPER1 inhibitor G15 suppressed the upregulation of MAPK3, PI3K and AKT genes and concurrently inhibited the relative mRNA levels of inflammatory response genes, indicating that GPER1 activates the PI3K/AKT and MAPK signaling pathways and that this activation contributes to BPAF-induced inflammatory response at the transcriptional level. Molecular docking further confirmed that BPAF directly binds to GPER1. These results suggest that BPAF induces immunotoxicity by activating GPER1-mediated PI3K/AKT and MAPK signaling pathways.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Transcriptional condensates anchored by chromatin readers are increasingly recognized as organizing hubs for gene expression, but how their assembly and stability are regulated remains poorly understood. Here, we identify an acetylation-dependent feed-forward circuit that controls the integrity of the Super Elongation Complex (SEC), a key driver of transcriptional elongation. We show that the SAGA histone acetyltransferase catalytic subunits KAT2A/KAT2B license acetylation of both histone H3 lysine 9 (H3K9ac) and SEC components themselves, including ENL, AFF1, and AFF3. Loss of this dual acetylation activity, achieved via a cereblon-recruiting PROTAC (GSK983/GSK699), displaces the chromatin reader ENL from target loci, dissolves ENL-anchored transcriptional condensates, and disrupts SEC-dependent transcriptional output - linking histone and non-histone acetylation to the physical integrity of a core transcriptional machine. Using genome-scale dependency data, we show that the SAGA complex is a selective chromatin dependency in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) AML and hematological malignancies and disrupting this feed-forward transcriptional circuit in AML demonstrates subtype independent antileukemia effects. KAT2A/B degradation drives potent, broad-spectrum antileukemic activity across genetically diverse AML cell lines, primary patient samples, and an isogenic KMT2A-rearranged model bearing cooperating oncogenic mutations, with H3K9ac loss concentrated asymmetrically at core AML oncogene loci such as MYC, MYB, and the HOXA cluster. Together, these findings define an acetylation-dependent circuit governing SEC integrity and establish KAT2A/B degradation as a mechanism-based, pan-AML therapeutic strategy, with implications for transcriptional condensate regulation beyond leukemia.The SAGA complex is a selectively essential chromatin dependency across hematological malignancies and particularly in AMLKAT2A/B degradation drives broad anti-leukemic activity across genetically diverse AML subtypes including chemo-refractory diseaseKAT2A/B degradation depletes H3K9ac at AML oncogene loci and dismantles ENL-anchored condensatesKAT2A/B licenses regulation of super elongation complex acetylation and ENL interaction with SEC complex components.
Appendage degeneration is a notable morphological feature of some teleosts with specialized benthic lifestyles. The half-smooth tongue sole (Cynoglossus semilaevis) undergoes severe pectoral fin regression during metamorphosis. However, the molecular basis underlying rapid pectoral fin degeneration remains unclear. Here, we performed time-series transcriptome sequencing on pectoral fins at pre-metamorphosis, metamorphosis peak and post-metamorphosis to characterize the molecular changes associated with pectoral fin degeneration. Transcriptional dynamics and functional enrichment showed that no significant enrichment of classical apoptosis-related transcriptional pathways was detected during pectoral fin degeneration. Instead, sustained downregulation of twist1b, identified as a transcriptomic candidate, together with significant upregulation of ssh1, coupled with enrichment of lysosome and ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) pathways, suggested enhanced tissue remodeling during pectoral fin degeneration. Temporal expression clustering revealed heterochronic misalignment in the developmental gene expression: upstream initiator tbx5 was upregulated at early metamorphosis, while downstream maintenance signal fgf10 decreased synchronously. Distal patterning gene hoxd12a exhibited premature expression and rapid decay, losing sustained late-phase expression. Moreover, transient elevation of gli3 during metamorphosis may contribute to restricted distal fin growth. We conclude that pectoral fin degeneration in C. semilaevis is associated with heterochronic disruption of developmental signaling and extensive tissue remodeling. This study provides transcriptomic insights into pectoral fin degeneration in tongue soles and establishes a basis for future functional studies of appendage reduction in teleosts.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Dosage-sensitive transcription factors (TFs) underlie altered gene regulation in human developmental disorders, and cell type-specific gene regulation is linked to the reorganization of three-dimensional (3D) chromatin during cellular differentiation. In this work, we show dose-dependent regulation of chromatin organization by the congenital heart disease (CHD)-linked, lineage-restricted TF TBX5 in human cardiomyocyte differentiation. Genome organization, including compartments, topologically associated domains, and chromatin loops, was sensitive to reduced TBX5 dosage in a human model of CHD, with variations in response across individual cells. Cohesin binding was reduced at TBX5-bound enhancer elements in a TBX5 dose-dependent manner, providing a potential mechanism for disrupted loop formation. These results highlight the importance of lineage-restricted TF dosage in cell type-specific 3D chromatin dynamics, suggesting a mechanism for TF-dependent disease.
The vertebrate limb buds, the embryonic precursors to arms and legs, emerge as cellular outgrowths from the somatic layer of the lateral plate mesoderm. In their work, Vighnesh Ghatpande, Can Cenik and Steve Vokes provide a comprehensive resource defining early regulatory events leading to forelimb bud initiation in the lateral plate mesoderm - a stage that remains poorly understood - and suggests additional roles for TBX5 (the earliest known forelimb-specific marker) beyond Fgf10. To learn more about their work, we talked to the first author Vighnesh Ghatpande, as well as the corresponding authors, Can Cenik, Associate Professor, and Steve Vokes, Professor, both in the Department of Molecular Biosciences, The University of Texas at Austin, USA.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) are the most common mesenchymal tumors of the gastrointestinal tract. Current tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) targeting oncogenic KIT and PDGFRA have improved patient outcomes, yet off-target toxicities and drug resistance mutations remain major clinical challenges. Many approved TKIs, often repurposed from other cancer indications, harbor diverse hinge-binding motifs that limit activity against resistance mutations clustering in the ATP-binding pocket of the kinase domain. Here, we describe a structure-based scaffold-hopping strategy to design kinase inhibitors with selectivity for mutant KIT/PDGFRA. Using structure-activity relationship (SAR) studies and 14 determined co-crystal structures, including a structure of the PDGFRA-G680R solvent-front mutation, we define key molecular interactions underlying resistance and inhibitor selectivity. Our lead 6,7-quinazoline-based inhibitors show high potency against clinically relevant KIT/PDGFRA mutations and effectively suppress downstream signaling. These compounds provide selective chemical tools to interrogate resistance mechanisms, and the PDGFRA-G680R structure shows the molecular basis for targeting solvent-front mutations across oncogenic kinases.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chromosome 4q12 rearrangements are recurrent in hematologic malignancies, most frequently involving PDGFRA. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) is routinely used for detecting 4q12 rearrangements. This study aimed to clarify 4q12 rearrangements misdiagnosed by FISH and explore the transcriptomic profile of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with CHIC2 rearrangements.Fluorescence in situ hybridization with a PDGFRA/CHIC2/FIP1L1 probe set detected 4q12 rearrangements. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) characterized fusion transcripts and compared transcriptomic profiles between CHIC2-rearranged AML and NPM1-mutated controls, identifying differentially expressed genes and enriched pathways. Previously reported PDGFRA-independent 4q12 cases were reviewed.RNA sequencing of 2 AML cases with FISH signals suggestive of PDGFRA rearrangement identified CHIC2 fusions instead: a novel CDK6::CHIC2 and a known ETV6::CHIC2. Integrating our cases with a systematic literature review, we identified 41 hematologic neoplasms with PDGFRA-independent 4q12 rearrangements, of which 38 (92.7%) were AML. The 4q12 breakpoints most frequently involved CHIC2 (27 cases, 65.9%), followed by GSX2, SCFD2, and intergenic regions. Among 15 cases assessed by both FISH and molecular methods, FISH misclassified 9 (60.0%; 9/15) as PDGFRA rearranged; subsequent molecular testing revealed rearrangements of genes adjacent to PDGFRA (eg, CHIC2, GSX2) or intergenic regions. Transcriptomic profiling of CHIC2-rearranged AML revealed a distinct expression signature with 492 differentially expressed genes, including PDGFRA upregulation. Pathway analysis showed significant enrichment for cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction and JAK-STAT signaling (false discovery rate <0.05).Molecular methods such as RNA-seq are effective for resolving cryptic 4q12 rearrangements in cases where FISH falsely suggests PDGFRA involvement. The distinct transcriptional profile of CHIC2-rearranged AML suggests dysregulated cytokine signaling and JAK-STAT activity in its pathogenesis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society for Clinical Pathology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) is a widespread plasticizer, but its role in subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) remains unclear. Integrating network toxicology, machine learning, transcriptomics, immune infiltration, molecular docking/dynamics, single-cell RNA sequencing, and in vivo/ in vitro experiments, we identified 264 DEHP-SAH overlapping targets enriched in PI3K-Akt/MAPK pathways. Three core genes (ADORA1, PDGFRA, PTGS2) were screened, with ADORA1 specifically upregulated in astrocytes under SAH. Chronic DEHP exposure exacerbated neurological deficits, neuronal damage, astrocyte proliferation/activation, apoptosis, and inflammatory cytokines in SAH mice, while reducing antioxidant enzymes. In primary astrocytes, DEHP suppressed viability, activated PI3K-Akt/MAPK, and induced oxidative stress and inflammation, synergizing with Hemin. An adverse outcome pathway framework was constructed. These findings reveal that DEHP aggravates SAH neurotoxicity via ADORA1-mediated astrocyte inflammation and oxidative stress through the PI3K-Akt/MAPK axis, providing new insights into environmental pollutant neurotoxicity.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
We report a case of pulmonary artery intimal sarcoma successfully treated with surgical resection followed by weekly paclitaxel. The tumor harbored a tumor protein p53 mutation, amplifications of epidermal growth factor receptor, platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha, and KIT, and focal positivity for mouse double minute 2.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Case Reports published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) is a major complication of prematurity, characterized by impaired alveolar epithelium regeneration and long-term respiratory morbidity. The cellular basis of this defect and the underlying epithelial-mesenchymal signals remain unclear. To define alveolar type 2 (AT2) cell heterogeneity and regenerative capacity, we analyzed lineage-traced AT2 cells in neonatal mice exposed to hyperoxia (85% O2, postnatal days 1-14). We assessed cellular states and function by flow cytometry, transcriptomics, and organoid assays. During normal lung development, AT2 cells gradually segregated into two transcriptionally distinct subpopulations, TomHigh and TomLow. TomHigh cells exhibited canonical AT2 identity, lipid metabolism, and enhanced mitochondrial function, showing strong organoid-forming and differentiation potential. TomLow cells displayed metabolic restriction and limited regenerative capacity. Hyperoxia caused alveolar simplification, expanding TomLow cells at the expense of TomHigh cells. AT2 cells entered a proliferative state and became Krt8+ transitional cells, but RNA velocity and lineage analyses showed impaired maturation toward AT1 cells, leading to persistent AT1 deficiency. Hyperoxia induced Sfrp1 and Frzb expression in a rare but detectable Sftpc+Acta2+ AT2 subset, and more prominently in Pdgfra+ fibroblasts, which adopted a myofibroblast-like phenotype. Fibroblast-epithelial co-culture and fibroblast-specific Sfrp1/Frzb overexpression impaired organoid formation and reduced AT2-to-AT1 differentiation. These findings identify a fibroblast-dominated Sfrp1/Frzb-mediated niche that constrains AT2 differentiation into AT1 cells, providing a cellular basis for impaired alveolar regeneration in BPD and suggesting potential therapeutic targets.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Thoracic Society. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Pediatric gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are rare, often lacking KIT or platelet-derived growth factor receptor-alpha (PDGFRA) mutations and driven by succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) deficiency. We report four pediatric patients (three females and one male) managed over a 19-year period. Two female patients had SDH-deficient tumors; one suffered metastatic relapse, illustrating the recurrent clinical course of this subtype. Of the two remaining cases, one SDH-intact female remains in remission 8 years post-diagnosis. The male patient demonstrated imatinib resistance but responded to sunitinib, facilitating gastrectomy. Despite a local recurrence managed by secondary wedge resection, he remains in remission. Comprehensive molecular profiling is essential for navigating GIST's clinical heterogeneity.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Myxoid glioneuronal tumor (MGT) is a newly delineated CNS WHO grade 1 neoplasm genetically characterized by PDGFRA p.K385L/I mutation. We describe a 14-year-old boy presenting with gelastic seizures caused by an intraventricular MGT. Intraoperative frozen section allowed minimal resection, preserving surrounding eloquent structures. Histology showed oligodendrocyte-like cells within myxoid stroma and scattered floating neurons, while molecular analysis revealed the canonical PDGFRA p.K385L mutation. At 13-month follow-up, the residual tumor remained stable without any further neurological dysfunction. This case highlights the importance of intraoperative diagnosis for surgical safety in MGT.© 2026. The Author(s).
The functional and molecular definition of progenitors giving rise to blood vessel endothelium in vivo remains disputed. Upon investigating the overlap of seemingly divergent reports currently defining putative endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) using single-cell RNA-sequencing and flow cytometry, Protein C Receptor (PROCR) and Platelet-Derived Growth Factor Receptor Alpha (PDGFRA) largely overlapped with previously characterized murine aorta's CD34+CD31low endovascular progenitors (EVPs). Functional assays and lineage tracing in homeostatic aorta and excisional wounds demonstrated increased clonogenic capacity, engraftment potential, and ability to form differentiated endothelial (D) cells of PROCR+ PDGFRA+ EPCs, termed as refined endothelial progenitor cell (rEPC), as compared to PROCRnegPDGFRAneg EVPs. Similar PROCR and PDGFRA expression in normal human aorta, and increased clonogenic capacity of CD34+CD31lowPROCR+ endothelial cells from freshly isolated human term placenta were observed as compared to controls. Functional validation of human rEPCs is supported by PROCR enrichment, while PDGFRA co‑expression in human endothelial progenitor-like cells is supported at the transcriptomic level only. Thus, overlapping PROCR and PDGFRA expression in EVPs narrows the population with true functional progenitor capacity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Glioblastoma (GBM) is characterized by pronounced chromosomal instability (CIN), which can activate the cyclic GMP-AMP synthase-stimulator of interferon genes (cGAS-STING) pathway and promote anti-tumor immunity. How CIN engages cGAS-STING in immunologically "cold" GBM and its relation to clinical outcomes remain unclear.CIN was quantified in 74 tissue cores from 34 patients with isocitrate dehydrogenase-wildtype GBM by chromosome 7/10 fluorescence in situ hybridization; aneuploidy score (AS) and heterogeneity score were derived. Immunohistochemistry assessed cGAS, STING, phosphorylated IRF3 (p-IRF3), and immune markers (CD3, CD4, CD8, CD163, IBA-1). Polyploid giant cancer cells (PGCCs) were identified using hematoxylin and eosin staining. EGFR, PDGFRA, CDKN2A, and PTEN copy-number alterations were assessed by multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification. The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA)-GBM cohort served as an independent dataset.High AS (≥1.36) was associated with longer overall survival (22.7 vs. 16.0 months, P = .039). cGAS expression correlated positively with AS (P = .019), consistent with cGAS engagement in highly aneuploid tumors. Conversely, STING was rarely expressed in tumor cells, restricted to stromal and vascular compartments, without accompanying immune infiltration. STING-positive regions were enriched for PGCCs (P = .045), suggesting stress adaptation rather than immune activation. p-IRF3 modestly correlated with AS (Spearman r = 0.39, P = .0006) and was reduced in EGFR-amplified or PTEN-loss cores (P = .003 each). In TCGA-GBM, surrogate AS stratification revealed a biphasic survival pattern consistent with our findings.CIN was associated with cGAS upregulation but not functional STING-mediated immunity in GBM, suggesting that CIN-associated intrinsic stress adaptation may contribute to immunotherapy resistance in GBM.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press, the Society for Neuro-Oncology and the European Association of Neuro-Oncology.
Phenotypic plasticity is a hallmark of cancer1; however the molecular switches required for cell-fate reprogramming are poorly understood. During intestinal wound-healing and colorectal cancer (CRC) metastasis, differentiated cells can dynamically dedifferentiate into an intestinal stem cell (ISC) state to drive epithelial regeneration and metastatic outgrowth2-10. Here we show that the RNA-binding protein ZFP36L2, which is mutated in 5-10% of CRC11-15, is a pivotal stress-responsive orchestrator of dynamic dedifferentiation. In mouse colon regeneration models, ZFP36L2 ablation inhibits dedifferentiation, ISC gene expression and function and impairs intestinal regeneration. In human CRC, loss of ZFP36L2 function abrogates metastatic seeding and the outgrowth of LGR5+ canonical metastases while promoting lineage plasticity and non-canonical differentiation into heterogeneous cell states. Mechanistically, ZFP36L2 binds to stress-associated mRNAs that contain AU-rich 3' untranslated regions, which induces the formation of dynamic biomolecular condensates associated with mRNA degradation and termination of the stress response. Together, these data show that ZFP36L2 acts as an important molecular switch that couples stress sensing with phenotypic plasticity. This in turn drives cellular dedifferentiation essential for re-establishing the ISC state during wound healing and metastasis. In ZFP36L2-deficient CRC, the inability to re-enter the LGR5+ state during metastatic outgrowth promotes non-canonical lineage plasticity, which is associated with poor clinical outcomes.© 2026. The Author(s).
Somatosensory neurons detect a diverse repertoire of stimuli, including in skeletal tissues, in which sensations of pain, pressure, and position are transmitted. Trauma to the physis often leads to pathologic "bony bar" formation, impeding normal growth of the skeleton. The role of somatosensory nerves in detecting and, in turn, regulating physis injury is unknown. Here, we observed prominent sensory nerve growth within the injured physis in mouse and human tissues corresponding to domains of nerve growth factor (NGF) expression. Two independent methods to inhibit tropomyosin receptor kinase A (TrkA) signaling reduced nerve sprouting and attenuated pathologic bony bar formation, whereas conversely sensory neural conditioned medium-treated organ cultures demonstrated the opposing effects. Somatosensory nerve retrograde tracing and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) identified a sensorineural transcriptome evoked by physis injury in mice. Corresponding scRNA-seq of injured mouse growth plates implicated pleiotrophin (PTN) signaling in pathologic growth plate ossification, a finding confirmed by ex vivo organ culture and in vivo knockout in sensory ganglia. Last, FDA-approved long-acting bupivacaine prevented pathological innervation and ossification of the growth plate after injury. These findings suggest that targeting somatosensory nerves could offer previously unrecognized strategies to treat pain and prevent pathologic ossification to optimize patient outcomes after growth plate injury.
Primary trigeminal neuralgia (PTN) is a severe chronic pain disorder, yet whole-brain white matter microstructural alterations beyond the trigeminal nerve remain poorly understood, partly due to limitations of conventional diffusion tensor imaging in crossing fiber regions.We prospectively enrolled 57 patients with classical PTN and 29 age‑ and sex-matched healthy controls. Seventy-two whole‑brain white matter tracts were reconstructed using constrained spherical deconvolution and fixel-based analysis. Fractional anisotropy (FA) was compared between groups using permutation testing with false discovery rate correction. Additional analyses examined associations with clinical variables, surgical outcomes, and neurovascular conflict status.Six tracts showed significantly reduced FA in PTN patients compared to controls (all p < 0.05, FDR-corrected). All six belong to motor-related systems: right fronto-pontine tract, left corticospinal tract, and four striatal tracts (right striato-prefrontal, right striato-fronto-orbital, right striato-occipital, left striato-parietal). No significant correlations with pain severity or disease duration survived multiple comparisons.Microstructural white matter alterations in PTN are not limited to sensory trigeminal pathways but prominently involve motor-associated striato-cortical and corticofugal projection tracts, suggesting that motor system reorganization may be one of the core features of PTN pathophysiology.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Substance use disorders (SUD) involving ketamine, cocaine, and alcohol present significant clinical challenges, often characterized by high relapse rates and limited pharmacological options. This case report details a 30-year-old male with a five-year history of severe polysubstance dependence, including daily intranasal ketamine use (2-3 g/day), cocaine, and alcohol, comorbid with recurrent depressive disorder. Despite conventional psychiatric treatment, the patient experienced severe cravings and sought ibogaine-assisted treatment. The patient underwent a structured 13-day residential program in Mexico, receiving an 800 mg ibogaine HCl flood dose (10.1 mg/kg), followed by two supplementary booster doses of 300 mg (3.8 mg/kg) under continuous medical and ECG monitoring. Following treatment, the patient reported an immediate cessation of cravings for all substances. Over approximately 17 months of follow-up including a medically supervised fractionated ibogaine intervention approximately 11 months after the initial treatment, serial toxicology and psychometric assessments were consistent with continued abstinence from ketamine, cocaine, alcohol and other previously misused substances, and significant improvements in depression (PHQ-9: 0-3), anxiety, and quality of life (WHOQOL-BREF: 55 to 71). This report represents the first longitudinally documented case of sustained abstinence in severe ketamine use disorder following ibogaine treatment, supported by serial toxicology and standardized psychometric outcomes. It adds objective, time-resolved evidence to a literature that has largely focused on ibogaine for opioid use disorder, and it highlights ketamine use disorder as a specific target for future controlled trials. The therapeutic outcome is hypothesized to arise from ibogaine's unique polypharmacology. This includes acute NMDA antagonism, which may disrupt compulsive circuits, as well as noribogaine's (the principal long-acting metabolite of ibogaine, with an elimination half-life of approximately 28-49 hours) kappa opioid receptor agonism and serotonin transporter inhibition, which stabilize reward pathways. Additionally, enhanced neuroplasticity via GDNF/BDNF expression may facilitate long-term behavioral changes. This case provides rare, rigorously documented evidence for ibogaine's potential in treating chronic ketamine dependence and highlights the urgent need for controlled clinical trials within regulated frameworks to further investigate its safety and efficacy.Copyright © 2026 Pérez Rosal, Faber and Backmund.
Effective treatments for post-stroke spasticity (PSS) remain limited, and the mechanism by which scalp acupuncture combined with exercise (SAE) alleviates PSS is not fully understood. This study investigated the effects of SAE in rats with PSS and explored whether SAE regulates synaptic plasticity through the PI3K/Akt pathway. A middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) rat model was established, and rats were randomly assigned to five groups: Blank, Sham, MCAO, SAE, and Baclofen. All interventions were administered for 7 consecutive days. Neurological function, cerebral infarct volume, histopathology, synaptic ultrastructure, and related protein expression were then evaluated. Compared with the MCAO group, SAE improved neurological deficits, reduced muscle hypertonia, decreased infarct volume, alleviated neuronal injury, increased synapse number, and improved synaptic morphology. SAE also upregulated glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), phosphorylated PI3K (p-PI3K), phosphorylated Akt (p-AKT), and synaptic proteins, including synaptophysin (SYN), postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD-95), and growth-associated protein 43 (GAP-43). Immunofluorescence staining further suggested enhanced expression of SYN and p-Akt in the motor cortex after SAE treatment. These findings suggest that SAE may be correlated with the activation of PI3K/Akt signaling via upregulation of GDNF, thereby improving synaptic plasticity and alleviating PSS symptoms. This study investigated the effects of SAE in rats with PSS and explored the potential association between SAE intervention, PI3K/Akt pathway activity, and synaptic plasticity.
Schizophrenia often features low-grade neuroinflammation. Because latent toxoplasmosis (LT) is more prevalent among individuals with schizophrenia, we tested whether LT yields a biomarker pattern resembling that reported in schizophrenia. We quantified 15 cytokines and 15 blood markers of brain injury in 65 LT-positive individuals and 103 matched LT-negative controls using multiplex immunoassays. Multivariate effects of infection, age, sex, and their interaction were assessed by MANCOVA and PERMANOVA. Effects on individual biomarkers were tested by partial Kendall correlation (controlling for age and sex). Differences in the internal correlation structure were evaluated with Mantel tests on dissimilarity matrices derived from partial correlations. LT was associated with higher KLK6, S100B, and TDP-43, and lower MIF; several other markers showed nonsignificant but sizable trends. Cytokines showed reduced IFN-γ, IL-1β, and MCP-1, and elevated IL-13 and IL-17 in the infected group. Sex-stratified analyses suggested stronger effects on brain-injury markers in women and on cytokines in men. Correlation structure also diverged: infected individuals exhibited more negative links between brain-injury markers and cytokines, whereas controls showed predominantly positive associations (Mantel r = 0.461, p = 0.043). The LT profile overlapped with schizophrenia in elevated KLK6 and S100B and, in men, reduced GDNF, but contrasted for MIF and for the overall cytokine pattern (no consistent IL-6/TNF-α elevation). LT entails neuroinflammatory and neuroimmune alterations that only partly recapitulate schizophrenia; the biomarker pattern and interrelationships differ, arguing against LT as the main driver of schizophrenia-related neuroinflammation.
In multiple sclerosis several alterations in transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) signaling in immune cells have been observed, however, little is known about gene expression of TGF-β receptor subunits. Dimethyl fumarate is a disease modifying drug that is still used to treat relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis. Although its inhibitory effect on TGF-β signaling associated with SMAD proteins has been observed, its effect on the expression of TGF-β receptors is unknown. Expression of genes for TGF-β receptor subunits - TGFBR1, TGFBR2, as well as the co-receptor - TGFBR3 has been examined in blood from patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis, untreated and treated with dimethyl fumarate, as well as in healthy controls, using droplet digital PCR. TGF-β1 concentrations were determined in sera, using ELISA. Untreated patients had significantly lower TGFBR3 gene expression in blood than healthy controls (p<0.0001) and significantly lower serum concentration of TGF-β1 (p=0.0268), than healthy controls. Patients treated with dimethyl fumarate had significantly lower TGFBR2 and TGFBR1 gene expression (p=0.0054 and 0.0225 respectively) and significantly higher TGF-β1 (p=0.0113) serum concentrations than untreated patients. The percentage of T cells in blood of untreated relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) patients was significantly higher than in healthy controls (p=0.0054), but in dimethyl fumarate-treated patients was not significantly different from the values in the other groups. Downregulation of the TGFBR3 gene and lower TGF-β1 serum concentration in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis can indicate a defective regulatory immune response. Downregulation of TGFBR1 and TGFBR2 genes could be one of the mechanisms for dimethyl fumarate-induced inhibition of TGF-β signaling.Copyright© 2025 Polish Physiological Society.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by memory loss and cognitive decline. The cholinergic hypothesis remains central to its framework, suggesting that the degeneration of cholinergic neurons and resulting neurotransmission disruption play a major role in cognitive impairment. Naringin, a potent polyphenolic compound abundant in citrus fruits, has gained attention for its antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and neuroprotective properties. This study aims to investigate naringin's neuroprotective potential in a scopolamine-induced amnesia model, focusing on the BDNF/GAP-43 signaling pathway and markers of synaptic plasticity.A total of 42 male Wistar albino rats were divided into six groups: Saline, Scopolamine (Sco; 1 mg/kg/day), Sco + Naringin (50, 100, and 200 mg/kg), and Sco + Donepezil (3 mg/kg). Following a 21-day treatment period, cognitive and emotional behaviors were assessed using the Morris Water Maze (MWM) and Elevated Plus Maze (EPM) tests. Hippocampal tissues were analyzed for acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity and oxidative/nitrosative stress markers (MDA, Peroxynitrite, NO, NOS). BDNF and GDNF mRNA expression was quantified by RT-qPCR, and the protein levels of BDNF, GAP-43, PSD-95, SYP, GFAP, SIRT1, KEAP1, Nrf2, and HO-1 were evaluated by Western blot. PSD-95, SYP, GFAP, and NeuN were further examined by confocal imaging.Scopolamine administration induced significant impairments in spatial learning and memory, alongside anxiogenic-like behaviors. Biochemical analyses revealed a marked increase in AChE activity and oxidative/nitrosative stress in the Sco group. Additionally, scopolamine caused a profound reduction in BDNF, GDNF, GAP-43, PSD-95, and SYP levels, while increasing GFAP expression. Naringin treatment effectively attenuated these deficits by lowering AChE activity, reducing oxidative damage, and suppressing neuroinflammation. Notably, naringin preserved the expression of synaptic proteins, in association with upregulation of the BDNF/GAP-43 pathway and maintaining pre- and post-synaptic protein levels (SYP and PSD-95).These findings demonstrate that naringin exerts significant neuroprotective effects against scopolamine-induced cholinergic amnesia. These findings are consistent with the possibility that naringin preserves synaptic plasticity, enhances neurotrophic support, and mitigates inflammatory responses, suggesting that it may represent a promising natural therapeutic candidate for Alzheimer-like neurodegeneration.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42530052 is a review article
Primary trigeminal neuralgia (PTN) is a debilitating neuropathic pain disorder with limited long-term treatment options. Although acupuncture is widely used, the comparative effectiveness of different acupuncture modalities remains unclear.To compare the efficacy and safety of various acupuncture therapies for PTN using a network meta-analysis (NMA).Randomized controlled trials were identified through a systematic search of seven databases from database inception to 2 March 2026. Outcomes included total effective rate (TER), visual analogue scale (VAS), attack frequency (AF), traditional Chinese medicine syndrome score (TCMSS), and adverse events (AEs). A network meta-analysis was conducted, and treatments were ranked using SUCRA.This network meta-analysis included 58 randomized controlled trials. The results showed that bloodletting therapy was identified as a potentially effective intervention for improving TER (RR = 2.00, 95% CI: 1.15-3.47; SUCRA = 95.6%; CINeMA: low certainty) and reducing VAS scores (MD = 0.07, 95% CI: 0.01-0.61; SUCRA = 87.4%; CINeMA: very low certainty). In contrast, acupuncture combined with conventional Western medicine performed better in reducing AF (MD = 0.05, 95% CI: 0.02-0.14; SUCRA = 100%; CINeMA: very low certainty), improving TCMSS (SMD = 0.15, 95% CI: 0.07-0.34; SUCRA = 90.7%; CINeMA: very low certainty), and decreasing the risk of AEs (OR=0.18, 95% CI: 0.12-0.28; SUCRA = 73.8%; CINeMA: moderate certainty).Different acupuncture modalities may offer distinct therapeutic benefits for PTN. Bloodletting therapy showed potential advantages in improving TER and reducing VAS, whereas acupuncture combined with conventional Western medicine appeared to perform better in reducing AF, improving TCMSS, and lowering the risk of AEs. However, these findings should be interpreted cautiously because of moderate-to-high heterogeneity across some outcomes and the generally low certainty of the evidence. Further large-scale, multicenter, high-quality randomized controlled trials are warranted to confirm these findings.https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/prospero/, PROSPERO (CRD420261339021).© 2026 Ren, Chen, Zhang, Guo, Peng, Jia, Li, Shan, Qiu and Cai.
Early prediction of hematological acute radiation syndrome (H-ARS) saves lives. For H-ARS severity prediction, we established a four-gene panel (FDXR, DDB2, POU2AF1, WNT3) using leukemia patients and non-human primates. Further confirmation in 12 minipigs failed, due to a weak response of these genes after irradiation.Here, we intended to confirm previous findings using a larger cohort (n = 19) and assess the impact of Myelo001 on clinical progression and gene expression. All minipigs received 2.1 Gy total-body irradiation (LD ≈ 40/30). The study included an irradiated control group and two irradiated groups treated with Myelo001 (11 or 15 days). Peripheral blood was collected six days before and on days 1-, 3-, and 10 after irradiation. RNA was isolated, reverse-transcribed, and analyzed by qRT-PCR using TaqMan assays. Differential gene expression (DGE) was calculated relative to pre-irradiation samples.WNT3 was undetectable in most animals. No significant difference in gene expression, survival, or clinical progression were found between Myelo001-treated and untreated animals, so treatment groups were pooled for DGE analyses. Across all time points, no significant changes in DGE were observed, except for slight DDB2 upregulation on day 3 (DGE = 2.3). The expected pattern of upregulated (DGE >2) FDXR/DDB2 with simultaneous downregulation (DGE <0.5) of POU2AF1, was absent (except on day one in one minipig). This missing pattern contrasted with an on average 5.5-fold reduction in lymphocyte counts, indicative of severe H-ARS. Also, no age or sex related changes were observed.This independent minipig study confirms previous work showing that these genes do not exhibit statistically significant radiation-responsiveness in this animal model. Under the experimental conditions applied, no significant age or sex related changes nor treatment-related effects of Myelo001 were observed, which may reflect model-specific limitations or a lack of efficacy in this setting, or a combination of both.
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a prevalent functional gastrointestinal disorder with an elusive pathophysiology. Although immune dysregulation and mild mucosal inflammation are recognized as important factors in IBS, the specific contribution of immunosenescence remains unclear. Prior MR studies on IBS focused on single molecular traits; however, an integrated multi-omics framework for aging-immune genes has not been applied. Here, we integrate cis-eQTL/pQTL/mQTL with machine learning and in vivo validation to identify putatively causal biomarkers and unravel the aging-immune axis.Aging- and immune-related genes were curated from published databases and analyzed using genome-wide cis-expression quantitative trait loci (cis-eQTL), cis-protein quantitative trait loci (cis-pQTL), and cis-methylation quantitative trait loci (cis-mQTL) datasets. All QTL data were derived from blood or plasma samples. Candidate genes were identified through integrative multi-omics analysis, followed by functional annotation, machine learning-based feature selection, immune infiltration profiling, and drug-target prediction. The expression of key biomarkers was validated using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) in colonic tissues from a rat model of diarrhea-predominant IBS (IBS-D).Integrative multi-omics analysis initially identified 34 high-confidence candidate genes. Through multi-algorithm machine learning such as least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO), support vector machine recursive feature elimination (SVM-RFE), and random forest, these candidates were refined to a core panel of five biomarkers: the antioxidant enzyme catalase (CAT), acyl-CoA dehydrogenase very long chain (ACADVL), chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 4 (CCL4), cyclin E1 (CCNE1), and Jagged canonical Notch ligand 1 (JAG1). These biomarkers demonstrated strong diagnostic performance for CAT, CCNE1, and JAG1 in the validation cohort (AUC: 0.935-0.951), while ACADVL and CCL4 showed only moderate diagnostic potential (AUC: 0.645-0.649). The combined AUC range in the training cohort was 0.898-0.959. However, in the IBS-D rat model, only JAG1 was significantly upregulated in colonic tissue, whereas CAT, ACADVL, CCL4, and CCNE1 showed no significant changes. Among the five markers, only JAG1 was significantly upregulated in the IBS-D rat colon, confirming its local gut relevance. CAT and CCNE1 showed strong diagnostic performance (AUC >0.9), whereas ACADVL and CCL4 performed modestly (AUC <0.7). Given the blood-derived QTL data and colonic validation, cross-tissue heterogeneity is a key caveat: JAG1 is robustly validated in colon, while the remaining four markers-especially ACADVL and CCL4-require further evaluation in blood, PBMCs, or other relevant tissues. Functional enrichment analysis revealed their involvement in critical biological processes, including oxidative stress, fatty acid metabolism, immune cell recruitment, cell cycle progression, and epithelial-immune crosstalk via Notch signaling. Immune infiltration analysis uncovered a distinct immune landscape in IBS, with significant correlations between biomarker expression and immune cell populations. Notably, only JAG1 was significantly upregulated in the colonic tissues of the IBS-D rat model, confirming its relevance to gut pathophysiology. No significant changes were detected for CAT, ACADVL, CCL4, or CCNE1 in the same tissue samples, highlighting the tissue-specific nature of these candidate biomarkers. The SMR analysis demonstrated consistent causal directions between genetically predicted expression and disease risk for these five markers, with no discordance relative to their upregulation in IBS patients. All biomarker validation was performed at the transcriptomic level (RT-qPCR); no protein-level assays (e.g., Western blot, IHC, or ELISA) were conducted.This study delineates the genetic architecture linking aging and immunity to IBS through an integrative multi-omics and machine learning approach, providing novel putatively causal evidence and identifying JAG1 as a robustly validated biomarker with diagnostic and therapeutic potential. The remaining candidates warrant further investigation in appropriate biological contexts.Copyright © 2026 Yao, Li, Zhang, Li, Linghu, Li and Zhao.
RNA 5-methylcytosine (m5C) methylation has emerged as an important epitranscriptomic regulator of gene expression, yet its role in stem cell maintenance remains not well understood. Here we identify a previously unrecognized function of the m5C methyltransferase NSUN2 in protecting stem cells from ferroptosis and promoting tissue regeneration. NSUN2 deletion reduced GPX4 expression, decreased intracellular GSH levels, increased Fe2+ accumulation, and enhanced lipid peroxidation in stem cells, leading to ferroptotic cell death, loss of tissue stem cells and impaired tissue regeneration across multiple organs. Mechanistically, NSUN2 catalyzed m5C methylation of Klf4 mRNA, thereby increasing KLF4 expression and transcriptionally promoting GPX4 to suppress ferroptosis in stem cells. Importantly, KLF4 restoration in vivo rescued NSUN2 deficiency-induced stem cell defects and impaired tissue regeneration. Furthermore, NSUN2 gene therapy significantly bolstered tissue stem cells with superior tissue regeneration and repair in multiple tissues. These findings highlight the NSUN2/KLF4/GPX4 axis in safeguarding stem cells against ferroptosis for tissue repair and a promising therapeutic value of NSUN2 in regenerative medicine.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The Jagged1 (JAG1) gene is essential for cardiac development, yet its tissue-specific transcriptional regulation remains poorly understood. In this study we used an integrative screening approach to identify 19 candidate enhancers within the ±100 kb region flanking the JAG1 locus, among which R7 exhibited the highest activity in dual-luciferase assays. CRISPR/Cas9-mediated deletion of R7 in AC16 cells significantly reduced JAG1 expression, decreased proliferative and migratory capacities, and increased apoptosis. Mechanistically, R7 deletion altered local chromatin contacts and reduced accessibility at CTCF-bound regions near the JAG1 promoter, accompanied by decreased H3K27ac, H3K4me3, RNA polymerase II, and SRF occupancy. These findings identify R7 as a cardiac-associated promoter-proximal regulatory element with enhancer-like activity that contributes to local chromatin organization and transcriptional activity at the JAG1 locus.© 2026 Zhuang et al.
Introduction Alagille syndrome (ALGS) is a rare autosomal dominant multisystem condition. This study focuses on the prenatal sonographic findings observed in cases confirmed to have ALGS through the molecular detection of JAG1 variants, either prenatally or postnatally. Methods This retrospective study enrolled thirteen cases of ALGS, diagnosed either prenatally or postnatally. Comprehensive medical records were systematically reviewed, with emphasis on pregnancy-related data, including serial fetal ultrasound examinations throughout gestation, molecular genetic test results, and pregnancy outcomes. Results Among the thirteen cases, ten demonstrated abnormal sonographic findings during the second trimester: unilateral multicystic dysplastic kidney (MCDK) in two (2/13), left MCDK with concomitant right renal agenesis in one (1/13), left MCDK associated with butterfly vertebrae in one (1/13), isolated butterfly vertebrae in three (3/13), non-visualized gallbladder in two (2/13), and supravalvular aortic stenosis with persistent left superior vena cava in one (1/13). The remaining three cases exhibited normal second-trimester ultrasound examinations but developed abnormal sonographic features in the third trimester: intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) was identified in two cases (2/13), and one case showed co-occurring pulmonary artery stenosis and butterfly vertebrae (1/13).Conclusion This study demonstrates that individuals with ALGS lack definitive prenatal ultrasound markers. When abnormalities are present, they are often subtle and nonspecific, which may not prompt clinicians to pursue genetic testing.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by S. Karger AG.
Haploinsufficiency disorders arise when loss of function mutations in one allele of a gene reduce gene dosage below the level required for normal physiology. Pharmacologic upregulation of the remaining functional allele represents a promising therapeutic strategy but requires screening assays capable of detecting modest changes in endogenous gene expression. Here we developed and compared three high throughput cell-based assays for identifying small molecule upregulators of JAG1, the gene most frequently mutated in Alagille syndrome (ALGS). The assays measure JAG1 expression at different molecular levels: RNA fluorescence in situ hybridization (RNA FISH) for JAG1 mRNA, immunofluorescence (IF) for endogenous JAG1 protein, and a HiBiT luminescence assay using CRISPR engineered LX-2 hepatic stellate cells expressing HiBiT tagged JAG1. Each assay was optimized in 384-well format and benchmarked using a panel of 32 histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi), compounds known to broadly increase gene expression. All three assays detected JAG1 upregulation and identified overlapping sets of active compounds. The homogeneous HiBiT assay showed the most favorable high throughput screening statistics (S/B = 2.7 and Z' > 0.5) and the lowest well to well variability, whereas the RNA FISH and IF assays provided higher signal to basal ratios and single cell resolution. Entinostat, Mocetinostat, and Chidamide were consistently identified as the most potent JAG1 upregulators across all assays. These complementary assays provide a flexible platform for identifying small molecule modulators of gene dosage and may be broadly applicable to drug discovery efforts targeting haploinsufficiency diseases.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Dual-specificity protein kinase CLK4 plays a pivotal role in regulating alternative mRNA splicing, DNA repair, and various cellular processes through precise phosphorylation. In this study, we analyzed 3825 global human cellular phosphoproteome studies, identifying 430 qualitative profiles and 55 quantitative differential datasets featuring high-confidence Class-1 phosphosites (localization probability ≥ 75%; A-score ≥ 13). Notably, S136 and S138 emerged as predominant phosphorylation sites outside the kinase domain. These sites showed frequent detection and differential expression in liver, lung, and head and neck cancers, as documented in PhosphositePlus. We identified a high-confidence set of co-regulated phosphoproteins, including SQSTM1, SRRT, RPS6, TP53BP1, TNKS1BP1, THUMPD1, OTUD4, and TCEA1. These proteins link CLK4 to critical pathways, including RNA splicing, autophagy, DNA damage response, and cancer progression. Binary interactors, including SRRM2, Interacts with SPT6 1 (IWS1), RBBP6, ZC3H18, BUD13, and DYRK1A, further connect CLK4 to RNA processing and splicing. Predicted downstream substrates, such as CCNL2, CDK11B, PRDX6, YTHDC1, RBM15, SRRM1, SFSWAP, HNRNPU, and DOCK7, highlight CLK4's broad regulatory scope. Upstream kinases were also predicted for S136 and S138. Site-resolved analyses revealed tumor-specific dysregulation of CLK4 phosphorylation at key residues. Co-occurring phosphosite alterations and nearby somatic mutations suggest disrupted CLK4 regulation in cancer. Overall, this study provides a comprehensive phosphoproteomic resource that maps CLK4's co-regulatory networks, paving the way for mechanistic investigations and targeted cancer therapies.
Breast cancer survivors (BCS) often exhibit persistent metabolic and hepatic disturbances after cancer treatment; however, cardiorespiratory fitness's (CRF) underlying molecular signatures and associations of CRF with metabolic and hepatic health remain insufficiently understood. We examined whether circulating metabolic markers and WNT1-inducible signaling pathway proteins (WISPs) differ between BCS and matched controls, as well as whether CRF relates to metabolic and hepatic risk within BCS. To this end, 40 BCS and 40 age- and weight-matched healthy controls underwent assessment vis-à-vis anthropometrics, fasting metabolic biomarkers, liver enzymes, and fatty liver index (FLI). CRF was estimated using a standardized step test. Circulating WISP-1 and WISP-3 were quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Compared with controls, BCS exhibited lower CRF and higher body fat percentage, fasting insulin, insulin resistance, liver enzyme levels, and FLI. Circulating WISP-1 was higher in BCS, even after adjusting for age, menopausal status, and body fat percentage (adjusted ratio 1.23, 95% CI 1.01-1.52; p < 0.05). Differences in insulin resistance and hepatic risk were attenuated after adjustment, while the between-group difference in WISP-3 was not significant after covariate adjustment. Among BCS, higher CRF was associated with lower insulin resistance, reduced hepatic risk, and lower prevalence of FLI > 30 (57.9% vs. 20.0%, p < 0.05) and metabolic syndrome (57.9% vs. 5.0%, p < 0.001), while WISP concentrations did not differ by CRF. BCS demonstrated persistent metabolic vulnerability and elevated circulating WISP-1, regardless of adiposity and menopausal status. The findings show that higher CRF was associated with lower metabolic and hepatic risks.
Breast cancer (BC) is the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide and has a high recurrence rate. This study aimed to evaluate the expression levels of three biomarkers: DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1), histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1), and metallothionein 1E (MT1E) in BC patients.Peripheral blood and tissue samples from 95 female BC patients and 50 age-matched (±5 years) healthy female controls were analyzed using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Diagnostic potential was assessed through receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. In silico analyses identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs), Gene Ontology (GO) terms, pathway enrichment, correlation analysis, miRNA-mRNA interactions, and drug-gene networks.Both experimental and computational results revealed significantly higher levels of DNMT1 and HDAC1 but lower levels of MT1E in BC patients compared to controls (p-value < 0.0001). Furthermore, tumor expression of these genes correlated with molecular subtypes, showing distinct expression patterns in triple-negative BC (TNBC). Advanced-stage tumors also exhibited increased HDAC1 and DNMT1 expression. GO enrichment analysis indicated that these DEGs are involved in cell division, differentiation, and nuclear functions. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis linked DNMT1 to the p53 pathway, HDAC1 to mismatch repair, and MT1E to cytokine receptor interactions. The strongest gene correlations were DNMT1-ILF3, HDAC1-RBBP4, and MT1E-MT2A. Additionally, miRNA-mRNA interaction analysis revealed that DNMT1, HDAC1, and MT1E are targeted by multiple miRNAs, with the top interacting miRNAs being hsa-miR-103a-3p for DNMT1, hsa-miR-34a-5p for HDAC1, and hsa-miR-126-3p for MT1E. DNMT1 showed the highest number of miRNA interactions among the three genes. Moreover, 98 drugs were found to interact with these three genes. ROC analysis demonstrated promising diagnostic performance, with areas under the curve (AUC) of 0.916 for DNMT1, 0.792 for HDAC1, and 0.683 for MT1E (95% confidence interval [CI]).These findings suggest that DNMT1, HDAC1, and MT1E show potential as complementary biomarkers in BC diagnosis. However, further validation in larger cohorts and functional studies are warranted.Copyright © 2026 Sedigheh Akhtartavan et al. Analytical Cellular Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Balloon pulmonary angioplasty (BPA) improves haemodynamics and outcomes in patients with inoperable chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH). Riociguat is frequently initiated before BPA to reduce procedural risks. However, evidence supporting continuation after successful BPA is lacking and current guidelines provide no criteria for treatment discontinuation. Consequently, many patients remain on long-term riociguat despite uncertain benefit, potential adverse effects and high costs.STOP-RIO is a multicentre, open-label, randomised, non-inferiority (NI) trial conducted in the two Dutch CTEPH expert centres. Seventy-four adult CTEPH patients treated with riociguat monotherapy with a mean pulmonary artery pressure (mPAP) <30 mmHg post-BPA will be randomised (1:1) to stop or continue the medication. The primary endpoint is the between-group difference in baseline-adjusted mPAP at rest measured by right heart catheterisation at 16 weeks. NI will be tested for the primary endpoint and for the two secondary endpoints highest in hierarchy N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide and 6-min walk distance. Additional secondary endpoints include haemodynamic parameters, safety outcomes, patient-reported outcomes and healthcare use. The primary analysis will be performed in a per-protocol population with secondary intention-to-treat and exploratory analyses. A prospective health economic evaluation will be conducted from a societal perspective.The study is conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and Good Clinical Practice and has received ethical approval. Written informed consent will be obtained from all participants. Results will be disseminated through peer-reviewed publication and shared with patient organisations and scientific congress.EU Clinical Trials Register: 2024-5 19 225-38-00.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published by BMJ Group.
Criteria for arrhythmia classification in horses are insufficient, particularly when differentiating atrial premature complexes (APCs) from sinus arrhythmia (SA). This study investigated RR and PP interval changes between SA, APCs, and ventricular premature complexes (VPCs).30 resting ECGs were reviewed: 10 each containing SA, APC, and VPC. Sequences of 10 RR and PP intervals were recorded for each arrhythmia (20 events/ECG). Percent RR and PP deviations were calculated (1) between sequential intervals (%ΔSEQPP and %ΔSEQRR, respectively) and (2) compared to averaged baseline intervals 1 to 3 (%ΔAVGPP and %ΔAVGRR, respectively). Percent RR and PP deviations were compared between arrhythmias with 2-way ANOVA and receiver operator characteristic curve analysis.Cycle length variation differentiated SA from APCs and VPCs in the degree of prematurity and return cycle length by use of both RR and PP intervals. The %ΔAVGRR, %ΔSEQPP, and %ΔAVGPP performed better than %ΔSEQRR for differentiating SA from APCs in degree of prematurity, while return cycle length was differentiated clearly with all 4 methods. Using %ΔSEQPP, the degree of prematurity and return cycle length of APCs differed from both SA and VPCs. Using %ΔAVGRR and %ΔAVGPP removed the influence of the degree of prematurity on the return cycle length variation. Variability of the sinus cycle lengths (PP7 to 10) following VPCs and SA was noted.The addition of PP intervals to cycle length variation analyses provided additional discriminatory capacity, particularly between APCs and SA. Classification bias was a limitation.Evaluation of cycle length variation was a useful adjunct tool for resting ECG classification of SA, APCs, and VPCs.
We conducted a phase II study of fludarabine, thiotepa, reduced dose melphalan conditioning for allogeneic transplantation using alternate donors. Thirty-eight patients with hematological malignancies were enrolled. Conditioning included fludarabine 160 mg/m2, thiotepa 10 mg/kg (dose adjusted to 5 mg/kg for age >60 years) and melphalan 100 mg/m2. Sixteen patients (42%) received reduced intensity thiotepa (5 mg/kg). Twenty-one patients (55%) had acute myeloid leukemia, rest had acute lymphoblastic leukemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, myelofibrosis and relapsed high-risk lymphomas. Twenty-eight (74%) underwent haplo-identical transplants-rest received double cord blood grafts. With median follow up of 38 months, Day +100 marrow demonstrated morphologic complete remission in 34/38 evaluable patients. Progression-free survival at 1-, 2- and 3-year was 68%, 63% and 63%, respectively. Overall survival at 1-, 2- and 3-year was 76%, 71% and 64%, respectively. One-year non-relapse mortality was 21% and relapse rate was 11%. Twelve patients received post-transplant maintenance therapy. We conclude that fludarabine/thiotepa/low dose melphalan can induce durable long-term remissions in patients with advanced disease.
Heart rate variability biofeedback (HRV biofeedback) is a promising treatment for improving autonomic regulation and health outcomes. Although HRV biofeedback has demonstrated benefits in younger adults, its efficacy in older adult samples remains unclear. Given age-related declines in heart rate variability (HRV) and corresponding risk for heart disease, stress-related difficulties, and cognitive decline, HRV biofeedback could be an intervention to enhance HRV and improve emotional functioning, sleep, and cognitive performance in older adults. We conducted a randomized, sham-controlled trial wherein 53 healthy older adults were randomized to active HRV biofeedback treatment or sham. Participants completed a five-week HRV biofeedback intervention with assessments measuring HRV at rest, during stress recovery, along with measures of emotional functioning, sleep, and cognitive performance and completed pre- and post-testing along with a 5-week intervention. No significant differences were detected in resting HRV between groups. However, the HRV biofeedback group showed a significant increase in LF during recovery from an acute laboratory stressor (Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test), suggesting potential modulation of HRV during recovery, particularly in low frequency oscillatory ranges. Both HRV biofeedback and sham conditions reported improved sleep quality as well as improvements in HF, RMSSD, and SDNN HRV measures, but no significant differences were present for measures of emotional functioning or cognitive performance. High adherence rates in both conditions did not moderate HRV outcomes. Findings suggest HRV biofeedback may enhance aspects of HRV during stress recovery in older adults but there were not specific improvements in resting HRV, emotional health, or cognition.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
The aim is to provide an overview of our early experience in pediatric surgeon-directed management of abdominal trauma presenting to a University Hospital.Retrospective analysis of the data from all children presented with abdominal trauma (<14 years of age) who needed hospital admission and were listed on the trauma registry between May 2021 and May 2022.One hundred and twenty children, 88 (73.3%) males and 32 (26.7%) females, were identified. The median age was 6 years. Out of the 120 patients, 8 (6.66%) presented with penetrating abdominal injury and 112 (93.33%) presented with blunt abdominal injuries. The principal mechanism of blunt injury was road traffic accidents (RTAs) (44.6%). The most frequently affected abdominal organ was the spleen (33.8%). Twenty patients (16.6%) underwent surgery, and the rest (83.4%) were managed conservatively. The overall in-hospital mortality rate was 5%, with a median length of stay of 5 days. The highest mortality was among patients with bowel injury (66.7%).The patterns of injury in the pediatric trauma population are comparable to those in other African pediatric trauma centres. RTAs remain the most common cause of injury. Operative management is similar to international standards. Mortality is high compared to high-income countries and some low-medium income countries as well.Copyright: © 2026 Journal of Indian Association of Pediatric Surgeons.
Omental cysts are rare intra-abdominal lymphatic malformations in children, accounting for approximately 2% of all intra-abdominal lymphatic lesions. Their embryological origin remains uncertain, and preoperative diagnosis is often challenging due to their nonspecific clinical and radiological features. This study aims to present our institutional experience with omental cysts in children and review current literature on their presentation, evaluation, and management.A retrospective review was conducted in our department between 2015 and 2024. Medical records of children who underwent surgery for omental cysts were analyzed for demographic data, presentation, imaging findings, operative details, histopathology, and outcomes.Nine children (eight boys, one girl; median age 4 years) underwent omentectomy for omental cysts. Abdominal pain or distension were the most common presentations. Preoperative imaging was suggestive of omental origin in only one child, with others reported as mesenteric cysts or lymphatic malformations. The mean cyst diameter was 14 cm, with laparoscopy attempted in two children, while the rest underwent laparotomy. Histopathology confirmed benign lymphatic malformation in all patients. Postoperative recovery was uneventful, with no recurrence on follow-up for a minimum of 5 years.Omental cysts should be considered in the differential diagnosis of cystic abdominal lesions in children. Misdiagnosis as ascites or mesenteric cysts is common. Complete surgical excision through omentectomy remains the treatment of choice, offering excellent outcomes with minimal morbidity and negligible recurrence.Copyright: © 2026 Journal of Indian Association of Pediatric Surgeons.
The taxonomy of the Auriculariaceae (Auriculariales, Basidiomycota) is revised based on morphological data and four- and three-marker datasets, with special emphasis on the Exidia clade. We argue in favor of retaining Exidia as a large genus, encompassing most species previously relegated to it, with an addition of four effused (Exidiopsis-like) species. Phylogenetic data allow us to justify two segregates from Exidia s. lato, namely the reinstated Ulocolla (Exidia saccharina complex) and a newly erected genus Descidia, encompassing Exidia repanda and E. thuretiana. At large, morphological data corroborate this splitting. Exidiopsis effusa, the generic type of Exidiopsis, is typified and redescribed; together with a newly described E. perflua, it constitutes the genus Exidiopsis s. str. The rest of Exidiopsis s. lato species studied by us are redistributed among the redefined genera Adustochaete, Leiostroma, Proterochaete, and Ulocolla, as well as a newly introduced genus, Tegmenticium. Amphistereum is placed among the synonyms of Eichleriella and the single representative of Sclerotrema, Exidiopsis griseobrunnea, is moved into Ulocolla. In total, 52 species are properly redescribed or introduced below, of them twenty are new to science, and twenty new combinations are proposed. Additionally, we detected two single-species lineages: Pholiobasidion senex gen. nov. et sp. nov., from North America, which is recovered as the sister group to all other members of the Auriculariaceae sampled, and Scrupulispora perparvula gen. nov. et sp. nov., from Europe.Viacheslav Spirin, Vera Malysheva, Nathan Schoutteten, Anton Savchenko, Bernard Rivoire, Jan Olsson, Thomas Læssøe, Leif Ryvarden, Django Grootmyers, Matti Kulju, Josef Vlasák, María Victoria Vignale, Ilya Viner.
Antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody (ANCA)-associated vasculitis (AAV) is a relatively uncommon autoimmune disease, predominantly causing kidney or lung injury. Pituitary dysfunction is exceedingly rare in microscopic polyangiitis (MPA). Rupture or hemorrhage of renal artery aneurysms is also scarcely reported in AAV, especially in MPA. In this study, we describe a 68-year-old woman who presented with shortness of breath at rest, polydipsia, and polyuria. In addition to an increased p-ANCA titer (1:10) and the presence of anti-myeloperoxidase antibodies, T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging of the head revealed pituitary injury. A diagnosis of MPA accompanied by pulmonary intestinal disease, central diabetes insipidus, and hypophysitis was confirmed. The patient responded to intravenous methylprednisolone and immunoglobulin. However, 1 week after admission, she complained of a sudden onset of sharp pain in her right waist area, accompanied by weakness, nausea, syncope, and hypotension. The hemoglobin level decreased from 95 to 47 g/L and abdominal computed tomography revealed a large perirenal hematoma surrounding the right kidney. The patient was immediately administered methylprednisolone pulse therapy (500 mg/day for 3 days) and cyclophosphamide (CTX; 0.6 g), followed by fluid resuscitation, blood transfusion, hemostatic therapy, and infusion of fresh frozen plasma. Arterial angiography demonstrated active bleeding of the interlobular artery of the right kidney, and selective arterial embolization was performed. Fortunately, she responded well to glucocorticoid and CTX therapy and did not relapse during the 5-year follow-up. Pituitary involvement accompanied by spontaneous rupture of a renal aneurysm is an extremely rare complication of MPA and has not been reported before.Copyright 2026 Authors.
Continuous vital sign monitoring is critical but often labor-intensive. Fiberoptic technologies, like the SMART MAT, offer non-invasive assessment. Adapting this for a seated posture addresses clinical needs by promoting safe patient mobilization and reducing complications associated with prolonged bed rest.To validate the accuracy of the sitting SMART MAT for respiratory rate (RR), heart rate (HR), oxygen saturation (SpO2), and systolic and diastolic blood pressure (SBP/DBP) against established clinical reference standards.This cross-sectional study compared sitting SMART MAT readings with clinical reference measurements under stationary and mobile wheelchair conditions. Accuracy was assessed using Mean Absolute Error (MAE), Mean Absolute Percentage Error (MAPE), Bland-Altman Limits of Agreement (LoA), repeated-measures ANOVA, and effect size.Data from 130 participants were analyzed. HR readings demonstrated high accuracy (MAE = 3.67-4.81 bpm) with tight LoA. RR error was minimal (MAE = 2.85-2.86 breaths/min) statically but increased during motion (MAE = 5.03-5.21 breaths/min). SpO2 remained highly stable (MAE = 1.08-1.21%), well within standard clinical tolerance. SBP showed solid central accuracy (MAE = 6.48-7.51 mmHg) but wider LoA occasionally exceeded the ±5 mmHg threshold, functioning best as a continuous trend monitor. DBP variance was negligible (MAE = 4.65-5.46 mmHg).The current SMART MAT is a viable, integrated multimodal platform. HR, RR, and DBP are comparable to clinical reference standards, while SBP requires careful interpretation. By accommodating a functional sitting posture, the contactless system reduces immobility-related complications and demonstrates high feasibility for continuous, real-world monitoring.Copyright © 2026 Sim, Chan, Phang, Liem and Yeung.
Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) complicated by Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP) is characterized by an insidious onset, rapid progression, and a critical clinical course. Severe complications, such as respiratory failure and pneumothorax, may occur in the absence of timely and effective intervention, resulting in increased mortality. Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) can serve as a salvage therapy by temporarily and effectively replacing cardiopulmonary function.We aimed to summarize the clinical experience of veno-venous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (V-V ECMO) support in four patients with AIDS complicated by PCP.Clinical data from four patients with AIDS who were complicated by PCP and received ECMO support at Beijing Ditan Hospital, Capital Medical University, were retrospectively analyzed. The timing of ECMO initiation, mode selection, mechanical ventilation (MV) management, sedation and analgesia strategies, prognosis, and clinical experience were evaluated, and treatment experience was summarized.All four patients were definitively diagnosed with AIDS complicated by PCP and respiratory failure. All patients received ventilatory support and developed barotrauma. Pneumothorax occurred in cases 1, 2, and 4, whereas pneumomediastinum was detected in case 3. All patients received V-V ECMO support, which improved clinical conditions in all cases. Finally, cases 1 and 2 died, whereas cases 3 and 4 recovered and were discharged. Among them, awake ECMO was successfully implemented in case 3.For patients with AIDS complicated by PCP, particularly for those with concomitant barotrauma, early initiation of ECMO support may rapidly improve systemic oxygenation and lower the intensity of MV. This approach may decrease ventilator-induced lung injury (VILI), facilitate lung rest and lung protection, and provide a therapeutic window for treating the underlying disease. Clinicians should comprehensively evaluate disease reversibility, immune recovery potential, and the severity of lung injury. Withholding ECMO therapy solely due to HIV infection status should be avoided.Copyright © 2026 Sun, Hao, Liu, Zhong, Wang, Pu and Liu.
Fetal hemoglobin (HbF) expression is silenced postnatally in adult erythroid cells. Sufficiently increased expression of HbF has been shown to overcome the pathophysiologic sequelae of both sickle cell disease and beta-thalassemia. As the MBD2a-NuRD chromatin remodeling complex is required for silencing of HbF, the present studies were aimed at exploring a potential therapeutic approach for disrupting this complex. AlphaFold 3 and a recent crystal structure were employed to predict the critical interaction domains linking GATAD2A in the histone deacetylase core subcomplex (HDCC) of NuRD and the CHD4 ATPase which has been shown to be required for silencing of the fetal gamma-globin ( HBG ) genes. The two predicted critical domains, the CR2 helical domain of GATAD2A and the C-terminal domains 1 and 2 (C1b and C2ab) of CHD4, were validated by in vitro biophysical studies. Mutation of two amino acids in the CR2 helical domain of the endogenous GATAD2A gene in HUDEP-2 cells resulted in dissociation of CHD4, loss of repressive chromatin over the HBG promoter and ~40% HbF levels compared to < 1% in control cells. Strikingly, enforced expression of a peptide containing the helical portion of the CR2 domain of GATAD2A in both HUDEP-2 cells and primary adult erythroid cells resulted in high levels of HbF, with up to ~75% HbF compared to mutant peptide control level of ~9% in the latter without perturbing erythroid differentiation. These results suggest that targeting the critical interaction domains of GATAD2A and CHD4 with a macrocyclic peptide or small molecule may lead to much needed small molecule therapeutics for sickle cell disease.Association of CHD4 with the HDCC core of the MBD2-NuRD chromatin remodeling complex is required for silencing of HbF expression in adult human erythroid cellsGenetic alteration or enforced peptide expression of a critical helical domain of GATAD2A results in dissociation of CHD4 from the MBD2-NuRD complex and high-level expression of HbF.
Cardiac hypertrophy refers to the compensatory response of the heart to various physiological or pathological stimuli in order to maintain its function. Let-7e-5p has been reported to be upregulated in patients with cardiac hypertrophy.This study aimed to investigate the role of let-7e-5p in the progression of cardiac hypertrophy using animal and cell models.Peripheral blood was collected from patients with cardiac hypertrophy and healthy controls to detect let-7e-5p expression via reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). An aortic banding (AB)-induced cardiac hypertrophy rat model was established to explore let-7e-5p expression in vivo. Antagomir let-7e-5p was used to investigate the effects of let-7e-5p silencing on cardiac hypertrophy progression in an AB-induced rat model. Angiotensin II (Ang II) was used to induce hypertrophy in H9c2 rat cardiomyocytes in vitro. The downstream regulatory mechanism of let-7e-5p was investigated in H9c2 cells.We first examined and verified that let-7e-5p was upregulated in blood samples from patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) compared to healthy controls and showed good diagnostic performance according to receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. In vivo, let-7e-5p was overexpressed in the heart tissues of AB-induced cardiac hypertrophy rats. Let-7e-5p deficiency alleviated AB surgery-induced cardiac hypertrophy in rat models. In vitro, let-7e-5p expression was higher in Ang II-induced H9c2 rat cardiomyocytes. Let-7e-5p inhibition reversed the Ang II-induced increase in cardiomyocyte size and the upregulation of ANP, BNP, and β-MHC expression, whereas let-7e-5p overexpression showed the opposite effects. Mechanistically, limb-bud and heart (LBH) was identified as a target of let-7e-5p, and LBH overexpression reversed the promotive effects of let-7e-5p on hypertrophy in Ang II-treated H9c2 cells. IGF-PI3K-AKT signaling was activated in Ang II-treated H9c2 cells, and let-7e-5p silencing suppressed its activation by targeting LBH. The IGF1R inhibitor PQ401 reversed the enhancement of H9c2 hypertrophy induced by let-7e-5p upregulation or LBH silencing.Let-7e-5p promotes cardiac hypertrophy by targeting LBH and regulating the IGF-PI3K-AKT signaling pathway, which may provide novel insights into targeted therapy.
Ovarian cancer (OC) remains one of the leading causes of gynecological cancer-related mortality, with limited biomarkers for early detection and prognosis. Changes in DNA methylation-stable and detectable in blood-are potential candidates for clinical application. In our earlier genome-wide methylation study involving monozygotic twins where one had ovarian cancer and the other did not, we identified two genes, RBBP7 and RIBC1, as differentially methylated. These findings laid the groundwork for further targeted investigation.Peripheral blood methylation of RBBP7 and RIBC1 was evaluated in 387 ovarian cancer patients, 50 benign ovarian disease patients, and 100 healthy controls using a bisulfite-free, methylation-sensitive restriction enzyme (MSRE)-based qPCR assay. In this approach, DNA is divided into digested and undigested reactions, and methylation levels are calculated from Ct differences. Methylation levels differed across groups, with RBBP7 showing a clearer discriminatory pattern (p < 0.001) and associations with disease severity (p < 0.001) and CA125 levels (p = 0.05). RIBC1 also differed between ovarian cancer and healthy controls (p < 0.001) but showed no significant associations with clinicopathological parameters.RBBP7 methylation appears to be a potential candidate biomarker associated with disease characteristics and progression patterns of ovarian cancer. These findings suggest that RBBP7 methylation may have potential for integration into future multi-marker diagnostic and risk-stratification approaches, pending further validation. While RIBC1 methylation also showed differential patterns, its clinical relevance appears limited and requires further investigation. These findings support the integration of RBBP7 methylation assessment into early-stage diagnostic workflows and risk-stratification strategies for ovarian cancer, enabling more precise clinical decision-making. Future multicenter prospective studies are warranted before clinical implementation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42450156 is a review article
Esophageal Adenocarcinoma (EAC) is an aggressive malignancy with poor prognosis. The rising incidence of EAC in the past few decades underscores the need to better understand the molecular features of EAC. The role of the transcriptional co-factor Limb-Bud and Heart (LBH), implicated in embryonic development and Wnt signaling, remains unclearly characterized in gastrointestinal cancers. Given the importance of gastroesophageal reflux disease and acidic bile salts (ABS) exposure in EAC tumorigenesis and progression, we investigated the role of LBH in EAC carcinogenesis.We hypothesized that LBH promotes tumor progression in EAC by enhancing proliferation and survival, particularly under reflux-like conditions.LBH expression levels were compared between normal and EACs using publicly available databases, patient samples, and cell lines. Functional roles were assessed using siRNA knockdown and overexpression models in EAC cell lines, followed by BrdU incorporation, colony formation, luciferase reporter assays, qRT-PCR, and western blot analysis of pathway markers.LBH expression was significantly elevated in EAC tissues and cell lines compared to non-neoplastic esophageal tissues. Knockdown of LBH reduced proliferation, viability, and colony formation, while overexpression had opposite effects. BrdU assays confirmed decreased proliferation with knockdown and increased proliferation with overexpression. Mechanistically, LBH upregulated the Wnt signaling pathway. LBH depletion suppressed β-catenin, cyclin D1, and Wnt transcriptional activity, while overexpression induced activation of these pathways. ABS treatment induced β-catenin and cyclin D1 expression and increased Wnt activity, and these effects were diminished with LBH knockdown. At the transcriptional level, LBH depletion decreased mRNA expression of proliferation-associated markers (PCNA, FOXM1, and CCND1), confirming its role in driving tumor growth. Importantly, LBH knockdown also induced apoptosis and suppressed cell survival signaling. Western blot analysis showed decreased BCL-xL and BCL2 levels with increased PARP cleavage. Similarly qRT-PCR showed reduced BCL2 and BCL-xL, and increased BIM, consistent with heightened apoptosis and reduced survival.LBH plays an important role in activation of signaling pathways that promote cell proliferation and survival in EAC. These findings warrant further investigation for testing the therapeutic potential of targeting LBH in EAC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) silences MHC class I antigen presentation across cancer types, yet the role of its core scaffolding subunit SUZ12 in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) immune phenotypes remains poorly characterized.We integrated bulk transcriptomics from three cohorts, scRNA-seq (137,976 cells), mouse spatial transcriptomics (5980 spots), Mendelian randomization, colocalization, DepMap CRISPR dependency, tissue microarray immunofluorescence, and siRNA knockdown.Meta-analysis identified 43 of 45 PcG genes significantly upregulated in PDAC (FDR < 0.05); SUZ12 was consistent across all three cohorts (log2FC = 0.95, FDR = 9.5 ×10^-19). A three-gene classifier (EZH1, RBBP7, RBBP4) achieved AUC = 0.855. Single-cell analysis revealed positive PRC2-MHC-I co-expression in epithelial cells (rho = 0.37), corroborated by mouse spatial transcriptomics (rho = 0.83). SUZ12-high epithelial cells lost acinar identity (PRSS1 log2FC = -6.63) and gained proliferative programs. Prior TMA immunofluorescence showed SUZ12-PD-L1 protein co-expression; siRNA knockdown reduced proliferation and migration. MR for SUZ12 was underpowered (one instrument, non-significant); colocalization returned PP.H4 = 0.023. PHC2 showed a protective association (OR = 0.45, p = 0.010).PcG complex genes are broadly dysregulated in PDAC. SUZ12 upregulation marks an epithelial state characterized by acinar identity loss, proliferative remodeling, and PRC2-MHC-I co-expression, supported by prior protein-level and functional data. Germline genetic analyses were negative or underpowered, and direct mechanistic validation remains needed.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Swine acute diarrhea syndrome coronavirus (SADS-CoV) causes severe enteric disease in neonatal piglets, resulting in substantial economic losses worldwide. The molecular mechanisms underlying SADS-CoV pathogenesis, particularly how viral proteins modulate host cell death, remain poorly understood. Here, we demonstrated that SADS-CoV infection induces apoptosis in vitro, and that non-structural protein 5 (nsp5) alone is sufficient to trigger apoptotic pathways. We identified GATA zinc finger domain-containing protein 2A (GATAD2A), a core component of the nucleosome remodeling and deacetylation (NuRD) complex, as a novel substrate of SADS-CoV nsp5. Mechanistically, nsp5-mediated cleavage of GATAD2A disrupts the recruitment of chromodomain helicase DNA-binding protein 4 (CHD4), leading to dysregulation of apoptosis-related gene transcription. Mutational analysis revealed that the catalytic residues His41 and Cys144 of nsp5 are essential for its pro-apoptotic activity and oxidative stress induction. Notably, GATAD2A functions as a negative regulator of nsp5-induced apoptosis. Furthermore, SADS-CoV nsp5 cleaves GATAD2A across multiple species, and cleavage at glutamine 531 (Q531) is conserved among nsp5 proteins from SARS-CoV, MERS-CoV, SARS-CoV-2, and PDCoV. Our findings uncover a previously unrecognized mechanism by which coronavirus nsp5 induces apoptosis through targeting GATAD2A.IMPORTANCESwine acute diarrhea syndrome coronavirus (SADS-CoV) is an emerging coronavirus that poses a significant threat to the global swine industry. The main protease nsp5 represents an attractive antiviral target due to its essential role in viral replication. While previous studies have focused on nsp5's function in polyprotein processing and immune evasion, its role in regulating host cell death remains largely unexplored. Here, we report the first evidence that SADS-CoV nsp5 induces apoptosis by cleaving GATAD2A, a key component of the NuRD complex. Strikingly, GATAD2A cleavage at Q531 represents a conserved strategy employed by diverse coronaviruses, including SARS-CoV-2, to manipulate host cell fate. This study reveals a novel mechanism of coronavirus pathogenesis and identifies GATAD2A as a potential therapeutic target for broad-spectrum coronavirus intervention.
The Nucleosome Remodeling and Deacetylase complex (NuRD) plays a key role in regulating hemoglobin expression in adult erythroid cells. Selectively disrupting this complex potently induces the expression of fetal hemoglobin, a proven therapeutic strategy for treating beta-hemoglobinopathies such as sickle cell anemia. In these studies, we have used mRNA display to identify small macrocyclic peptides that inhibit the interaction between two core components of NuRD, the SANT-SLIDE domain of CHD4 and the CR2 domain of GATAD2A. In addition, the screen suggested a second binding site on the CHD4 domain. Based on this observation, we hypothesized and confirmed that CDK2AP1 bound to this region of CHD4, leading us to purify and determine the structure of the ternary complex between CHD4, GATAD2A, and CDK2AP1. The results of our studies show that the SANT-SLIDE domain of CHD4 functions as a critical interaction hub in the formation of NuRD and suggest a strategy to block NuRD function for therapy.
Esophageal carcinoma has high mortality and poor prognosis. Current multimodal therapies remain limited by scarce actionable targets and suboptimal systemic efficacy. Tumor stemness programs sustain invasive, therapy-resistant cells and may offer new opportunities for precision stratification and treatment.The present study has demonstrated the multifaceted roles of stemness genes in esophageal cancer through integrated multi-omics research. Firstly, the analysis of bulk RNA-seq revealed dysregulation of stemness genes in cancer. Utilizing the high-dimensional WGCNA approach in the context of single cell RNA-seq, we have successfully identified modules that are associated with tumor stemness. Subsequently, Cox regression and LASSO analysis were employed to identify prognostic genes and construct a predictive model. CellChat and functional enrichment studies explored crosstalk between model genes and the microenvironment, while multiple experiments validated the efficacy of these model genes.Through multimodal analysis, stemness exhibits significant differences between esophageal cancer and adjacent normal tissue. By integrating multiple algorithms, we constructed a stemness gene prognostic model. This model accurately predicts prognosis and drug response, with its 1-, 2-, and 3-year survival predictions outperforming TNM staging. The model gene RBBP7 emerges as the most influential prognostic factor. Its overexpression mediates heightened tumor cell stemness and correlated with T follicular helper cells infiltration, thereby reshaping the tumor microenvironment.The stemness gene model has been demonstrated to possess the capacity to accurately predict the prognosis of patients diagnosed with esophageal cancer. It is noteworthy that the model gene RBBP7 has been identified as a promising therapeutic target for addressing the issue of stemness in esophageal cancer.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Yang, Du, Wu and Wu.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the major subtype of primary liver cancer, is one of the most prevalent and lethal malignancies globally. Limb-bud and heart (LBH), a highly conserved transcriptional cofactor, regulates embryonic development and is implicated in various human diseases, including cancer. However, whether and how LBH relates to liver cancer progression remains elusive.The expression patterns and prognostic value of LBH in HCC were evaluated using data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. The role of LBH during HCC progression was characterized through in vitro cellular experiments, as well as subcutaneous xenograft and hydrodynamic tail vein injection (HTVi)-induced spontaneous HCC mouse models. Transcriptome sequencing (RNA-seq), quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR), the Cistrome Data database, and chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) were utilized to explore the signaling pathways governing LBH gene transcription. Mass spectrometry was performed to identify Mortalin as a binding partner of LBH, which was further verified by co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) and immunofluorescence (IF) assays. Finally, in vitro rescue experiments were conducted to clarify the role of Mortalin in mediating the oncogenic effects of LBH in HCC.LBH is significantly upregulated in HCC tissues and functions as an oncogenic driver. The aberrant upregulation of LBH in HCC is attributable to transcriptional regulation by the TGF-β/Smad signaling pathway. LBH notably promotes tumor growth both in vitro and in mouse models. Furthermore, LBH physically interacts with the oncoprotein Mortalin, and the two proteins colocalize in the cytoplasm of HCC cells. Functionally, Mortalin is essential for LBH-mediated oncogenic promotion in HCC.Collectively, these findings demonstrate that the TGF-β/LBH/Mortalin axis plays a crucial role in HCC progression, highlighting a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of liver cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chronic microglial neuroinflammation is a core driver of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Wei et al. recently reported a blood-brain barrier (BBB)-penetrating, microglia-targeting nanomodulator (Res@TcMNP/ASO) that simultaneously suppressed NF-κB signaling and enhanced NRF2-dependent antioxidant defense in chronically activated microglia, yet the molecular node coupling these two opposing circuits was not identified. In this perspective, drawing on primary literature spanning microglial inflammation, neuronal genome maintenance, tau regulation, and oncology, I propose that sirtuin 6 (SIRT6) is a plausible upstream candidate for this coordinated effect. SIRT6, a NAD+-dependent chromatin deacetylase, restrains NF-κB through H3K9 deacetylation at RELA target promoters and, in parallel, deacetylates and stabilizes NRF2 to amplify antioxidant transcription; its decline in the aging and AD brain promotes DNA damage and GSK3-driven tau hyperphosphorylation. Because a microglia-restricted carrier confines pathway modulation to the relevant cell population, this delivery strategy is well matched to a SIRT6-centered mechanism, while the context-dependent, potentially oncogenic nature of systemic SIRT6 activation reinforces the rationale for such restricted delivery. I outline specific loss- and gain-of-function experiments to test whether microglial SIRT6 mediates the dual-pathway effects of Res@TcMNP/ASO, offering a falsifiable hypothesis to guide future mechanistic and therapeutic work.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Osteoporosis and osteosarcoma impose a substantial and rising global health burden, yet their transcriptomic landscapes have not been systematically compared. We performed a multiomics characterization integrating bulk transcriptomics, coexpression network analysis, immune deconvolution, single-cell RNA sequencing, and diagnostic classifier construction.Bulk transcriptomic profiling was performed using GSE56815 (circulating blood monocytes, n = 80; 40 low-BMD/40 high-BMD) and the TARGET-OS database (n = 88 osteosarcoma tumor samples; DNA methylation n = 86; copy number n = 81). Differential expression was assessed by Welch's t-test with Benjamini-Hochberg correction. Coexpression modules were identified by hierarchical clustering of the Top 2000 most variable probes with dynamic tree cutting. A logistic regression classifier was constructed from the Top 20 differentially expressed probes using fivefold-stratified cross-validation. Single-cell RNA sequencing of an osteosarcoma tumor specimen (GEO accession GSM9030790) was processed with SVD-based dimensionality reduction and K-means clustering (k = 8; n = 3658 cells passing QC). In vitro validation was conducted by qRT-PCR in MC3T3-E1 osteoblast precursor cells and RAW264.7 osteoclast precursor cells.Differential expression analysis identified 4347 probe sets at nominal p < 0.05, of which 604 remained significant after Benjamini-Hochberg correction. Eight coexpression modules were identified; module M0 showed a weak positive association with low-BMD status (r = 0.184), which did not reach statistical significance. Six hub genes-SP7/Osterix, RUNX2, BMP2, WNT5A, DKK1, and SOST-were examined by qRT-PCR: SP7, RUNX2, BMP2, and WNT5A showed significant downregulation (p < 0.01), whereas DKK1 showed significant upregulation (p < 0.01) and SOST showed a nonsignificant trend toward upregulation under osteoporosis-simulating conditions. The diagnostic classifier achieved a moderate AUC of 0.693 (fivefold CV range: 0.48-0.91), with the lower bound falling below the random classifier baseline (AUC = 0.5), indicating limited discriminative capacity in some data partitions. scRNA-seq resolved eight transcriptionally distinct cell clusters in the osteosarcoma specimen (3658 cells passing QC).This integrative multiomics study provides a comprehensive transcriptomic comparison of osteoporosis and osteosarcoma, identifies BMD-associated coexpression modules with experimentally validated hub genes, and establishes a reusable analytical framework for biomarker discovery in metabolic and malignant bone disease. However, the weak module-trait correlations, subthreshold classifier performance in some cross-validation folds, and the use of circulating blood monocytes to study bone-specific gene expression warrant cautious interpretation of the findings.Copyright © 2026 Dongming Fu et al. International Journal of Genomics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Microplastic pollution poses a growing threat to aquatic ecosystems, yet its impacts on skeletal development in fish remain poorly understood. This study investigated the toxic effects of polystyrene microplastics (PS MPs) on skeletal development in zebrafish and compared the findings with recent reports in marine medaka to identify conserved and species-specific responses. In zebrafish, PS MPs accumulated primarily in the intestine, gill, and liver, leading to spinal deformities and cartilage matrix degradation. Exposure induced biphasic (14 vs. 28 days), time-dependent toxicity: short-term (14 days) stimulated osteogenic activity and locomotion, whereas prolonged exposure (28 days) suppressed cartilage differentiation and reduced swimming performance. Transcriptomic and qPCR analyses revealed dysregulation of key osteogenic and chondrogenic genes. To evaluate cross-species relevance, we also compare our zebrafish data with those from the marine medaka, which do not have osteocytes-a key structural difference that may influence toxic susceptibility. Consistent with marine medaka, both models show PS MP accumulation in gastrointestinal and respiratory tissues, biphasic behavioral changes, and disruption of conserved skeletogenic pathways (e.g., Runx2-Sp7 axis). However, differences in bone cell biology and in the manifestation of skeletal lesions highlight model-specific toxicological nuances. These findings underscore the dual-phase toxicity of PS MPs on fish skeletal systems and emphasize the value of multi-species comparisons for comprehensive ecological risk assessment of microplastics in aquatic environments.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Acute kidney injury (AKI) is highly prevalent worldwide but lacks specific treatments. Mitochondrial dysfunction plays a central role in its pathogenesis, making mitochondrial protection a promising therapeutic strategy. Miro1 is a key regulator of mitochondrial dynamics, yet its involvement in AKI remains unexplored. In this study, we found that Miro1 expression was significantly downregulated in renal tubular cells from AKI patients and in multiple murine AKI models. Functional studies demonstrated that Miro1 loss aggravated tubular cell injury and mitochondrial dysfunction, whereas Miro1 overexpression exerted protective effects. Mechanistically, we identified Sirt6 as a novel interacting partner of Miro1. Sirt6 directly deacetylated Miro1 at lysine residue K182, which inhibited its ubiquitin-proteasome degradation and maintained Miro1 protein stability. Disruption of Sirt6 activity led to enhanced Miro1 downregulation and increased tubular cell apoptosis, while Sirt6 activation reversed these detrimental effects in a deacetylase-dependent manner. Reciprocal rescue experiments further confirmed that Miro1 serves as a critical downstream effector of Sirt6. Collectively, our findings uncover the Sirt6-Miro1 axis as a previously unrecognized protective mechanism in AKI, wherein Sirt6 stabilizes Miro1 via deacetylation to preserve mitochondrial homeostasis and alleviate kidney injury. This axis may represent a novel therapeutic target for AKI intervention.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Chronic exposure to ultraviolet A (UVA) radiation is the principal environmental driver of skin photoaging, yet the upstream molecular events that commit irradiated keratinocytes to senescence remain poorly understood. Here we show that SIRT6, an NAD+-dependent protein deacetylase with established roles in genome maintenance and organismal longevity, functions as a central gatekeeper of keratinocyte homeostasis under photic stress. Using a chronic UVA irradiation model in mice together with cultured human keratinocytes, we demonstrate that UVA inflicts extensive DNA damage and G2/M cell-cycle arrest, accompanied by selective depletion of SIRT6 among all sirtuin family members. Mechanistically, UVA suppresses the deubiquitinase USP10 at both transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels, thereby licensing ubiquitin-dependent proteasomal degradation of SIRT6. The resulting SIRT6 deficiency unleashes hyperactivation of the DNA-damage sensor PARP1, amplifying genomic injury signaling and driving keratinocytes into irreversible senescence with concomitant elaboration of a broad pro-inflammatory secretory programme encompassing chemokines and cytokines. Pharmacological reactivation of SIRT6 with the selective agonist UBCS039 reverses epidermal hyperplasia, attenuates DNA damage and senescence marker accumulation, and suppresses inflammatory mediator induction both in vivo and in vitro, establishing SIRT6 loss as a causal rather than correlative event. Furthermore, molecular docking and functional validation identify osthole, a plant-derived coumarin from the medicinal herb Cnidium monnieri, as a candidate SIRT6-engaging compound that counteracts UVA-induced senescence and inflammation in keratinocytes. Collectively, these findings define a USP10-SIRT6-PARP1 signaling axis whose disruption underlies cutaneous photoaging and suggest that SIRT6-directed strategies may offer therapeutic benefit against UV-driven tissue degeneration.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Vitamin D receptor (VDR) regulates musculoskeletal biology, but its adult, tissue-specific roles are difficult to resolve with germline or conventional conditional knockouts. We developed recombinant adeno-associated viral vectors (rAAVs) to drive Cre recombinase selectively in bone or muscle and used them to delete Vdr postnatally in Vdrfl/fl mice. To engineer a muscle-selective vector, we screened AAV9 constructs carrying candidate muscle promoters and identified tMCKΔ63 as the most selective promoter. Packaging this cassette in the myotropic AAVMYO capsid further reduced off-target skeletal expression while preserving strong muscle transduction. Local intramuscular delivery of AAVMYO-tMCKΔ63 enabled unilateral targeting with minimal systemic spread. In parallel, a bone-selective AAV8-Sp7 vector supported skeletal delivery. These vectors produced tissue-restricted Vdr deletion in VdrmuscleAAV and VdrboneAAV mice. Muscle-targeted VDR loss reduced grip strength (-9.27%, p < 0.01) and endurance (-16.58%, p < 0.05). Bone-targeted deletion caused modest but significant skeletal changes, including increased cortical thickness ( + 7%, p < 0.05) and higher vertebral stiffness ( + 27%, p < 0.001), without effects on body weight or tibial strength. This scalable, crossbreeding-independent strategy enables compartment-specific functional studies in floxed models, including genes with embryonic lethality or complex tissue interactions. It also provides a general framework for iterative capsid-promoter optimization to maximize specificity in vivo across diverse tissues.© 2026. The Author(s).
The NAD + -dependent histone deacetylase Sirt6 regulates transcription of multiple classes of genes, including those involved in metabolism, immune response, oxidative stress response, and development. Defining the Sirt6-regulated transcriptome is relevant to understanding the various important physiological roles of Sirt6, such as extending lifespan, maintaining metabolic health, and tumor suppression. Numerous studies have identified Sirt6 target genes, using both targeted and genome-wide approaches; however, consensus is limited and there has yet to be a systematic analysis of gene expression changes induced by altering Sirt6 levels. In the present study, we conducted a meta-analysis of 19 mammalian RNA-seq datasets in which Sirt6 levels were perturbed (knockout, knockdown, or overexpression). Our analyses included Gene Set Enrichment Analysis, pathway analysis of differentially expressed genes, and identification of individual differentially expressed genes. Our analysis identified consistent gene expression changes associated with lowering Sirt6 levels, including increased expression of immune response and ribosomal protein genes and reduced expression of lipid oxidation and oxidative phosphorylation genes. Extracellular Matrix and E2F target genes also had consistently increased expression upon Sirt6 reduction, highlighting novel regulation by Sirt6. To determine the conservation of gene regulation by Sirt6, we performed additional RNA-Seq meta-analysis on tissues from Drosophila melanogaster with Sirt6 deletion and overexpression. The fly datasets produced similar results to the mammal results, except for lipid oxidation genes, which were found to increase in Sirt6-low conditions. These results provide consensus about conserved and novel pathways transcriptionally regulated by Sirt6.
Aging and obesity are characterized by comorbidities like declines in fertility, lifespan, gut barrier integrity, cardiac function, and motor activity, and an increase in oxidative stress due to altered nutrient and energy homeostasis. A study on Drosophila Neprilysin-like 15 ( Nepl15 ) demonstrated that loss of Nepl15 gene significantly reduced glycogen and glycerolipid reserves in adult males and increased glycogen storage in adult females despite similar food consumption as controls. Therefore, we investigated the sex- and age-specific consequences of Nepl15 loss on cellular and physiological parameters associated with aging and obesity. We observed that egg production, rate of pupariation, and rate of adult fly eclosion were slightly better in the mutant flies. Interestingly, mutant females, but not males, exhibited significantly extended lifespan. Both sexes demonstrated improved locomotor performance, exercise endurance, gut barrier integrity, and preserved heart rate during progressive aging. At the cellular level, female mutants displayed reduced oxidative stress, elevated Sod2 expression, and increased ATP levels, all indicative of enhanced cellular health. Mutant males exhibited an increased mitochondrial membrane potential, indicating an enhanced capacity for rapid ATP production in response to enforced activity. Consistently, the energy-sensing kinase AMPK expression was reduced in the mutants. The lifespan extension of mutant females was supported by downregulation of mTOR and upregulation of Sirt6 expression. However, in mutant males, both mTOR and Sirt6 were downregulated, potentially contributing to improved physiological health without changing their lifespan. Collectively, our findings establish Nepl15 knockout mutation promotes anti-aging and anti-obesity health benefits, with stronger effects in female flies.
Solute carrier (SLC) family genes govern transmembrane transport and cellular metabolism, yet their systematic roles from Helicobacter pylori infection to gastric cancer (GC) remain undefined. By integrating multiple GEO datasets with weighted gene co-expression network analysis, differential expression, and machine learning algorithms, we identified seven core SLC genes (SLC9A9, SLC43A2, SLC16A6, SLC7A14, SLC28A3, SLC4A11, SLC5A2) for H. pylori infection and nine (SLC1A3, SLC2A3, SLC15A3, SLC19A3, SLC2A12, SLC16A4, SLC25A4, SLC9A7, SLC28A3) for GC. Logistic regression models achieved high diagnostic accuracy (AUC = 0.976 and 0.874, respectively). Immune infiltration analysis revealed distinct correlation patterns: SLC4A11 and SLC5A2 associated with activated mast cells, neutrophils, and M2 macrophages in infection, while SLC1A3 and SLC2A3 correlated broadly with M1/M2 macrophages and activated CD4+ T cells in GC. Enrichment analyses confirmed involvement in transmembrane transport, immune-related pathways, and cancer signaling. Transcription factor prediction identified CEBPB, RELB, and STAT5A as key upstream regulators. Molecular docking demonstrated strong binding affinities between SLC proteins and repurposable compounds (3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine, CHEMBL1182312, quinine). This study provides the first systematic characterization of SLC family expression across the H. pylori-GC continuum, identifying potential diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets that warrant further experimental validation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The ovarian cancer immunoreactive antigen domain-containing protein 1 (OCIAD1) is a mitochondrial protein implicated in mitochondrial morphology, energy metabolism, and differentiation. Although understudied, recent studies position it as a critical player in carcinogenesis and neurodegenerative disorders, making it a potentially druggable node in cellular signaling networks. However, the phosphoregulatory networks and the upstream kinases governing OCIAD1 remain unknown.A large-scale literature mining and analysis of 177 phosphoproteomic datasets with differential expression of OCIAD1 was carried out to map its phosphoregulatory network. The predominant phosphosites were determined based on localization probability, detection frequency, and differential regulation. Multipronged computational approaches were employed to gather novel candidate kinases that may target OCIAD1 phosphosites. Co-differential phosphorylation analysis was conducted with other proteins, including interactors and candidate upstream kinases, to infer functional and regulatory associations.The sites S108 and S123 emerged as predominant, together accounting for 70% of OCIAD1 phosphorylation. Co-differential phosphorylation analysis revealed associations with proteins involved in the cell cycle, DNA repair, autophagy, mitophagy, endocytosis, and apoptosis. Novel candidate kinases for OCIAD1 phosphosites were identified; notably, SRMS and YES1 emerged as potential upstream regulators of Y199. Furthermore, the phosphosites in the candidate kinases of sites, including PLK1 (T210), CDK13 (S383, S397), PRKD2 (S200), CIT (S1343), and RPS6KA3 (T577), showed strong positive co-differential regulation with OCIAD1 predominant sites, supporting their potential involvement as upstream kinases.This study presents the first systematic map of the OCIAD1 phosphoregulatory network and provides candidate upstream kinases that may contribute to its phosphorylation, which warrant further experimental validation. The strong co-differential regulation of proteins involved in autophagy, mitophagy, endocytosis, and neurodegenerative pathways, as well as of kinases that orchestrate these processes, suggests that OCIAD1 phosphoregulatory network maybe involved in mitochondrial quality control and mitochondria-associated neurodegeneration, establishing a foundation for therapeutic investigations targeting OCIAD1 signaling.Copyright © 2026 Fahma, Subair, Lubaba, Gopalakrishnan, Shivamurthy and Raju.
Colorectal carcinoma (CRC) is a main cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide. Studying genes involved in CRC progression helps predict prognosis and develop new therapeutic modalities. Metastasis-Associated Gene 3 (MTA3) is one of these studied genes. MTA3 could regulate tumor carcinogenesis and modulate the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) pathway due to its ability to promote or suppress target gene expression. This study evaluated the immunohistochemical expression of MTA3 and EMT markers (E-cadherin and Slug) in CRC specimens.This retrospective cross-sectional study included 81 cases of primary CRC. All cases were stained with MTA3, E-cadherin, and Slug antibodies. The relations between their expression and clinicopathological parameters, as well as the relation between MTA3 and EMT markers, were assessed.High MTA3 expression and preserved membranous E-cadherin were significantly related to low tumor grade, absence of lymphovascular and perineural invasion, low depth of invasion, absence of lymph node and distant metastasis, as well as early tumor stage. High Slug expression was related to higher tumor grade, high depth of invasion, presence of lymph node and distant metastasis, as well as advanced tumor stage. There was a significant correlation between high MTA3 expression and both preserved E-cadherin (rs = 0.520, P < 0.001) and low Slug expression (rs = -0.290, P = 0.009) in the studied cases.MTA3 is related to favorable clinicopathological parameters in CRC and could regulate EMT marker expression, suggesting that MTA3 may play a possible role in controlling tumor cell invasion and metastasis and could exhibit a potential tumor-suppressive role.
Geleophysic dysplasia (GD) is a rare genetic disorder characterized by short stature, joint contractures, and cardiopulmonary complications, with early mortality, and linked to mutations in ADAMTSL2 (GD1), FBN1 (GD2), or LTBP3 (GD3) genes. These mutations are hypothesized to disrupt extracellular matrix (ECM) organization and enhance transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β) signaling. Losartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker, has been proposed to mitigate TGF-β-mediated pathologies. In this study we tested the efficacy of losartan as a therapeutic drug for GD. We evaluated losartan's therapeutic potential using Adamtsl2 p.A165T mutant mice and patient-derived fibroblasts. Survival, growth, TGF-β signaling, and ECM protein expression were assessed. Losartan did not improve survival or growth in our mutant mice. Compared with control fibroblasts, patient-derived fibroblasts showed reduced basal TGF-β1 secretion. Consistent with this finding, transcriptomic analyses did not reveal activation of the TGF-β signaling pathway, and no differences in SMAD phosphorylation were observed between patient and control cells. Losartan treatment failed to modulate TGF-β signaling or ECM protein incorporation. These results suggest limited benefits of losartan in GD and challenge the notion of TGF-β dysregulation in GD pathogenesis, indicating a need for alternative targeted therapies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Geleophysic dysplasias (GDs) are uncommon genetically predisposed abnormalities that interfere with skeletal growth and formation. Several GD subtypes have different clinical manifestations. The current report presents the case of a 7-year-old Syrian boy with a medical history of repeated bone fractures and noticeable facial characteristics. Initial laboratory examinations revealed normal results, except for low serum phosphate and ferritin levels. The X-ray images showed no abnormalities. The DEXA scan was like that of a 92.1-year-old. Karyotype analysis revealed 46 XY. Genetic testing results showed compound heterozygous mutations in the Latent Transforming Growth Factor Beta Binding Protein 3 (LTBP3) gene and a heterozygous mutation in collagen Type V Alpha 1 (COL5A1), consistent with the patient's clinical manifestations. The following fractures were treated using a combination of nonsurgical casting and surgical intervention. The LTBP3 gene mutations are associated with GD. However, the COL5A1 gene mutations are assumed to be associated with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome Type 1. However, the patient did not exhibit the typical features of joint hypermobility or skin abnormalities, suggesting that the COL5A1 mutation may have a minor effect on his condition. In conclusion, this case highlights the importance of genetic testing in children with repeated fractures and abnormal physical traits. Although the COL5A1 mutation may have a minor influence, further investigation is needed to understand its long-term effects. This instance also emphasizes the range of physical characteristics that can occur with GD and Marfan syndrome, even when caused by the same genetic mutations.Copyright © 2026 Adel Alsharei et al. Case Reports in Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Geleophysical skeletal dysplasia is an extremely rare condition characterized by predominantly acral skeletal involvement with a progressive course, associated with short stature and short limbs. Skin, joint, and organ involvement have been described; cardiorespiratory involvement is fatal. It is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive manner and is associated with variants in genes encoding extracellular matrix proteins: ADAMTSL2, LTBP3, and FBN1. This article describes a series of children with FBN1-associated geleophysical dysplasia who were followed up at a pediatric hospital. All presented with severe short stature and short limbs. Radiological findings were consistent in the hands (brachymetacarpal and brachyphalangeal features, notches in the metacarpals, and delayed ossification of the carpus). There was variability in severity and organ involvement indicators. Given the complexity of the condition and the multiple systems involved, there is a need for recommendations regarding a multidisciplinary approach throughout life and the importance of genetic counseling.Sociedad Argentina de Pediatría.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is a prevalent and lethal malignancy. The three-dimensional (3D) chromatin architecture significantly influences tumor progression, yet the contribution of 3D chromatin structure-related genes (3DCRGs) in LUAD remains unclear. This study was designed to explore the role of 3DCRGs in postoperative recurrence of early-stage LUAD, response to Sorafenib therapy in advanced LUAD, tumor progression, and the regulation of the tumor microenvironment (TME).Based on prior studies of chromatin 3D architecture, we curated 49 3DCRGs. Differential expression analysis in the TCGA-LUAD cohort identified 21 3D differentially expressed genes (3DDEGs) between tumor and adjacent normal tissues. Seven GEO datasets (GSE31210, GSE30219, GSE33072, GSE27389, GSE115002, GSE83836 and GSE31428) were used to screen key genes associated with early recurrence, Sorafenib response, and LUAD stage progression through integrated machine learning approaches, and the selected genes were validated in independent datasets. TME characteristics in high-risk early-stage LUAD patients were assessed using IOBR 2.0. Single-cell transcriptomic analysis (GSE200972) was utilized to identify cell populations enriched with the core genes, while spatial transcriptomics was employed to validate their spatial localization. Virtual single-gene perturbation analysis was performed using scTenifoldKnk to assess the functional convergence of core 3DCRGs in tumor proliferating cells.We identified 21 3DDEGs (|log2FC|≥ 0.5, q < 0.05). Machine-learning integration consistently highlighted SMC3, RAD21, FOXM1, MYBL2, and MTA3 as key regulators in postoperative recurrence in early-stage LUAD, response to Sorafenib treatment in advanced LUAD, and tumor progression across different stages of LUAD. Models constructed using these genes demonstrated robust performance and were validated in independent cohorts. IOBR analysis revealed that patients with high recurrence risk exhibited co-activation of glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation, along with significantly increased infiltration of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) (P = 0.0001). Single-cell transcriptomic analysis demonstrated a significant enrichment of these genes within tumor proliferating cells (TPCs), and spatial transcriptomics confirmed their robust expression in epithelial hotspots regions. Virtual single-gene perturbation analysis using scTenifoldKnk revealed that all five core genes convergently regulate cell cycle, DNA replication, and mismatch repair pathways in tumor proliferating cells. Immunohistochemistry results confirmed that SMC3 protein expression was significantly higher in tumor tissues compared to adjacent normal tissues.This study identified five 3DCRGs (SMC3, RAD21, FOXM1, MYBL2 and MTA3) that significantly influence postoperative recurrence in early-stage LUAD, Sorafenib treatment response in advanced tumors, and clinical staging. These genes are enriched in TPCs and may promote tumor evolution and therapeutic resistance by coordinating stemness maintenance and metabolic-immune crosstalk. Our findings highlight the significance of chromatin 3D architecture in LUAD and provide a theoretical foundation for its application in cancer precision medicine and therapeutic intervention.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Metabolic liver disease arises due to dysregulated signaling between hepatocytes and non-parenchymal cells (NPCs). Through parallel RNA sequencing screens in diet-induced and genetic mouse models, backdropped by human transcriptomic data, we identified latent TGFβ binding protein-3 (LTBP3) - a regulator of TGFβ secretion - as a novel contributor to metabolic liver disease pathogenesis. GalNAc-conjugated Ltbp3 ASO reduced hepatic triglyceride accumulation in diet-induced metabolic liver disease mouse models, which was phenocopied in mice lacking hepatocyte TGFβ activity, but surprisingly not in hepatocyte-specific Ltbp3 knockout mice. This discordance prompted evaluation as to whether GalNAc-based tools are hepatocyte-specific. In fact, we found that GalNAc-Ltbp3 ASO also targeted multiple NPC populations, reducing intrahepatic TGFβ activity, culminating to lowered lipid content by increased proteasomal degradation of the key lipogenic enzyme Acetyl-CoA-Carboxylase 1 (ACC1) in hepatocytes. These data reveal a previously unrecognized NPC-hepatocyte axis to regulate lipogenesis in metabolic liver disease.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
There remains a pressing need to identify pathological mechanisms that render a thoracic aortic aneurysm susceptible to continued enlargement, dissection, or rupture, yet additional insight can be gleaned by understanding compensatory mechanisms that limit disease progression and thereby stabilize a lesion. Our biomechanical data suggest that the ascending aorta within a common mouse model of Marfan syndrome, Fbn1C1041G/+, exhibits progressive disease from 12 wk to 1 yr of age but near growth arrest from 1 to 2 yr of age. Comparison of the biomechanical phenotype, histological characteristics, and proteomic signature from 12 wk to 1 yr to 2 yr plus the transcriptional profile from 12 wk to 2 yr suggests that multiple differentially expressed genes (including downregulated Ltbp3 and Rictor) and associated proteins may contribute to late-term growth arrest. Although there is a need to better understand the interconnected roles of temporal changes in differential gene expression and protein abundance, modulating transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) signaling and reducing mTOR signaling appear to merit increased attention in limiting aneurysmal expansion in Marfan syndrome.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Aneurysms in a mouse model of Marfan syndrome develop over the first year of life, only to stabilize over the second year of life. Remarkably, this paper is the first to identify, in a genetic condition of thoracic aortopathy, particular strategies that cells have identified to limit lesion growth and thus enhance resiliency.
Background: Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is the most common type of lung cancer and a major cause of cancer death. Zinc finger proteins (ZNFs) have been implicated in LUAD progression, functioning either as oncogenes or tumor suppressors. Therefore, an in-depth investigation of ZNFs may contribute to the development of novel diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for LUAD. Methods: Transcriptomic and clinical data were obtained from the TCGA and GEO databases. Prognosis-related ZNF genes were identified using univariate Cox, LASSO, and multivariate Cox regression analyses. An eight-gene ZNF-based prognostic signature was constructed and validated in two independent external cohorts (GSE50081 and GSE26939). A nomogram integrating independent prognostic factors was developed. Immune infiltration, somatic mutation profiles, and drug sensitivity were systematically analyzed. We further focused on FGD3, a key gene from the signature, examining its expression in LUAD cells and tissues, including lorlatinib-resistant models. Results: The prognostic signature comprising TRIM6, TRIM29, CTCFL, FGD3, GATA4, CASZ1, TRAF2, and ZNF322 effectively stratified patients into distinct risk groups with significantly different overall survival (p < 0.05). The risk score, together with T and N stage, served as independent prognostic predictors (n = 500, p < 0.05). High-risk patients exhibited an immune-desert phenotype, increased tumor mutational burden, and distinct drug sensitivity patterns. Notably, FGD3 expression was downregulated in LUAD tissues (n = 14, p < 0.0001) and lorlatinib-resistant cells, and its restoration suppressed resistant cell proliferation and partially reversed drug resistance. Conclusions: This study establishes a promising ZNF-based prognostic model for LUAD, providing a potential tool for risk stratification and individualized therapeutic decision-making. The identification of FGD3 as a potential mediator of drug resistance highlights its promise as a candidate biomarker and therapeutic target in LUAD.
The apoptotic pathway mediated by mitochondria depends on the activation of pro-apoptotic Bcl-2 proteins Bax and Bak. When they permeabilize the outer mitochondrial membrane (OMM), mitochondrial dysfunction occurs, leading to caspase activation. A recent study proposed that Bax accumulation on mitochondria increases apoptotic susceptibility, with adhesion-initiated signals regulating Bax. When adhesion signaling is inhibited, Bax translocates to the OMM, undergoes conformational change, and forms complexes that create pores. Although MOMP is well studied, mechanisms regulating Bax shuttling, non-canonical partners, and mitochondrial dynamics remain poorly understood.This review aims to provide insights by discussing the mechanisms through which Bax regulates its mitochondrial targeting, the mitochondrial dynamics associated with Bax translocation, and their influence to apoptosis. Understanding these processes could reveal new insights into the decision-making checkpoints that determine cell death.A comprehensive literature search was conducted across scientific databases for peer-reviewed publications up to 2025. Search terms included Bax retrotranslocation, mitochondrial dynamics, Bcl-2 family interactome, and apoptotic priming.Recent evidence shows that Bax continuously retrotranslocates from mitochondria to the cytosol under survival conditions, a process driven by anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 proteins. When adhesion signaling or other survival cues are inhibited, this cycle is disrupted, leading to Bax accumulation on mitochondria, its oligomerization, and the onset of MOMP. Several mitochondrial proteins, including Drp1, MAVS, OCIAD1, PTPN1, and AKAP1, have also been linked to a mitochondrial interaction network that influences Bax localization and retrotranslocation. Proximity-labeling approaches such as BioID are further identifying new proteins that may regulate Bax's mitochondrial targeting and apoptotic priming.The mechanisms driving Bax accumulation on mitochondria and its retrotranslocation remain unclear, especially the role of mitochondrial proteins. Evidence suggests mitochondrial interaction networks influence Bax and Bak regulation. Further research is needed to define how these networks integrate with the Bcl-2 interactome to shape apoptotic decisions.© 2026 The Author(s). Health Science Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Impaired oligodendrocyte precursor cell (OPC) differentiation limits myelin renewal in aging and contributes to multiple sclerosis (MS) progression. How aging drives OPC deficits remains incompletely understood. We find dysregulation of genes associated with the circadian clock, including Bmal1, and metabolism in aged compared with young OPCs. Targeted loss of Bmal1 in OPCs drives metabolic dysfunction, leading to cellular senescence and impaired dynamics. OPC proliferation and differentiation occur at different rates throughout the day in young adult mice and become disrupted with aging. Chronotherapeutic targeting of BMAL1-controlled sirtuin signaling restores Bmal1-disrupted OPC dynamics after demyelination via sirtuin 2 (Sirt2)-dependent mechanisms. Induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived OPCs from MS patients and MS lesion oligodendroglia recapitulate BMAL1 and SIRT2 disruptions. These findings establish BMAL1 as a key regulator of OPC energy metabolism, sirtuin homeostasis, and senescence. We anticipate that this work will provide a foundation for future studies investigating the interconnected roles of aging, circadian disruption, and myelin biology.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Myostatin (MSTN) and Suppressor of Cytokine Signaling 2 (SOCS2) are key negative regulators of muscle growth and development. Cytidine base editors (CBEs) offer a precise method for introducing stop codons to knock out these genes. This study aimed to apply the YE1-AncBE4max CBE system to edit MSTN and SOCS2 in Haimen goats, a local Chinese breed, to enhance growth traits.Efficient single guide RNAs (sgRNAs) targeting MSTN and SOCS2 were screened in goat fetal fibroblasts via electroporation. Edited cells were analyzed by Sanger and TA-clone sequencing. Subsequently, a mixture of selected sgRNA and CBE mRNA was microinjected into 36 zygotes, which were then transferred to 9 recipient goats to generate gene-edited animals. Off-target effects were assessed by sequencing predicted sites.Cellular editing efficiencies for three MSTN sgRNAs were 25%, 37%, and 29%, and for one SOCS2 sgRNA was 31.57%. Microinjection and embryo transfer resulted in the birth of five kids, and one fetus (#S91) was aborted at 3 months of gestation; four with dual-gene (MSTN & SOCS2) edits (#241, #242, #S32, #S91) and two with single SOCS2 edits (#S31, #S11). Notably, two dual-edited goats (#241, #242) harbored biallelic MSTN mutations. No off-target mutations were detected. Phenotypic analysis showed that the edited goats exhibited significantly increased body weight and a "double-muscling" phenotype by 90 days of age compared to wild-type controls. This is the first study of generating any species with double gene knock out (MSTN, and SOCS2) to date to the best of our knowledge.This study successfully established a YE1-AncBE4max-based platform for efficient, precise dual-gene editing in goats. The generation of MSTN/SOCS2-edited Haimen goats with enhanced growth performance demonstrates the potential of base editing technology for rapid genetic improvement in livestock.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Given the limited knowledge of probiotic effects on clock genes, this study investigated whether probiotics that regulate gut integrity and microbiota balance influence central circadian clock gene expression. In this study conducted on three groups [control group (CG), shifted group (SG), and shifted and probiotic supplement group (SPG)] of eight BALB/c mice each, Clock, Bmal1, and Per2 gene expressions and weight gain were evaluated. Although body weights at baseline, week 8, and week 16 were similar among groups, weight gain over time was significantly higher in the SG and SPG groups (p<0.05). Significant differences were observed between CG and SG at week 8 and between SG and SPG at week 16. Gene expression analyses revealed no significant differences in Clock expression. However, Bmal1 expression at ZT18 was significantly different between the CG and SPG groups (p = 0.045). These findings demonstrate the regulatory effect of probiotic supplementation on circadian disruption and weight gain, suggesting a potential role in circadian rhythm management. Nevertheless, the results should be interpreted cautiously because they are based on limited gene expression changes and require confirmation in larger studies.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Nutrition & Food Research published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Circadian clocks underlie daily rhythms in physiology by coordinating temporal patterns of gene expression and protein function throughout the body. At the core of this system in mammals is CLOCK/BMAL1, a ubiquitously expressed heterodimeric transcription factor complex that orchestrates tissue-specific circadian gene expression. The basis for this specificity remains unclear, but tissue-specific interactions at chromatin could provide one. Here we used chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled to mass spectrometry to map CLOCK/BMAL1-associated protein complexes on chromatin in mouse liver, kidney and lung. We detected 1,510 associated proteins, most of which were tissue-specific and not explained by protein abundance. Among these, we identified the homeodomain transcription factors PROX1, HNF1B and HOXA5 as tissue-enriched interactors that bind BMAL1, co-occupy most BMAL1 genomic sites and establish organ-restricted circadian transcription. Our findings demonstrate that tissue-specific transcription factors confer cellular identity on the core clock, thereby contributing to organ-specific patterns of rhythmic gene expression.© 2026. The Author(s).
To explore circadian involvement in periodontitis and provide insight into mechanisms.Clinical samples from patients with periodontitis and a ligature-induced periodontitis mouse model were used in the present research. The rhythmic pattern of cortisol, the core circadian rhythm proteins BMAL1 and CLOCK, the expression of senescence markers (p16, p21, and p53), and the percentage and length of primary cilia were detected in hPDLSCs (human periodontal ligament stem cells) exposed to cortisol as an in vitro model of cortisol-associated circadian disruption. BMAL1 expression was manipulated by siRNA transfection to knock down BMAL1 expression, and SR8278 treatment was used to modulate BMAL1-related circadian regulation. Moreover, the effects of SR8278 on the progression of periodontitis were evaluated by micro-CT, mouse behavior tests, the number of primary cilia, and senescence assays.Patients with periodontitis and ligature-induced periodontitis mice exhibited elevated cortisol levels, reduced BMAL1 expression, increased senescence-associated markers, and decreased primary cilia abundance. Elevated cortisol was associated with circadian disruption, accompanied by reduced BMAL1 expression and impaired ciliary homeostasis. BMAL1 regulated ARL13B expression, a key regulator of ciliogenesis. BMAL1 knockdown impaired Hedgehog signaling and induced hPDLSC senescence. SR8278 partially recovered BMAL1-related circadian alterations and primary cilia abundance while attenuating cellular senescence in both periodontitis model mice and cortisol-treated hPDLSCs.Collectively, these findings support the involvement of the cortisol-BMAL1-ARL13B pathway in periodontitis-associated primary cilium dysfunction and hPDLSC senescence. Modulation of BMAL1 partially restored primary cilium homeostasis and attenuated periodontal tissue damage, supporting its potential as a therapeutic target for periodontitis.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Many U.S. soldiers and support personnel stationed in the Middle East and Southwest Asia are exposed to hazardous combustion byproducts from military burn pits, which may produce chronic health effects. In addition, prolonged and irregular work schedules increase susceptibility to circadian rhythm disruption, worsening adverse health outcomes. This study aimed to examine the interaction between light at night and burn pit exposure and their effects on neuroinflammatory and behavioral outcomes in mice. Thirty-two male Swiss Webster mice were housed either in dark nights (LD) or dim light at night (DLAN) condition. During week 4, mice from each group were exposed to either filtered air (FA) or burn pit emissions (BPE) for 4 hr/ day over 6 days. For the BPE‑exposed mice, the average exposure concentrations were 6.9 mg/m3 (mass) and 4.03E6 #/cc (particle counts). The mice housed in LD conditions and exposed to FA served as an experimental control group. Behavioral testing conducted 24 hr after the last exposure resulted in no significant differences in distance traveled, spatial working memory, or anxiety-like behavior in open field, y-maze, and elevated plus maze. However, DLAN-FA mice exhibited reduced average speed in comparison to LD-FA. qRT-PCR analysis revealed decreased expression of proinflammatory cytokine genes in hippocampus (Il6, Tnfα, and Il1β) and cortex (Il6) of LD-BPE mice. Significant changes in gene expression were not observed in lungs and liver. Reduced Bmal1 expression was noted in hippocampus of LD-BPE mice, whereas DLAN-FA group increased Bmal1 and Cry1 expression in cortex. Our data demonstrate that light at night modulates neuroimmune and circadian responses following repeated BPE exposures.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557477 is a review article
Adequate sleep is essential for biological rhythmicity and metabolic homeostasis, but chronic sleep restriction (CSR), a common modern challenge, disrupts hypothalamic function and contributes to circadian dysregulation, oxidative stress, and metabolic disturbances. This study investigated the effects of AdipoRon (AR), an adiponectin receptor agonist, on CSR-associated changes in hypothalamic clock-gene expression, oxidative stress markers, and components of the SIRT1/NRF2/HO-1 signaling axis. Male mice were assigned to control, CSR, CSR + Melatonin (Mel), and CSR + AR groups. Animals underwent 21 days of sleep restriction (18 h/day) using the multiple-platform approach and received intranasal AR (10 µg) or Mel (40 µg) daily for 21 days. Circadian clock genes (Clock, Bmal1, Per1, and Cry1), oxidative stress markers (malondialdehyde, superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, and total antioxidant capacity), and components of the SIRT1/NRF2/HO-1 pathway were assessed in the hypothalamus. Serum lipid profile and liver enzymes were also measured. The results showed that CSR induced marked alterations in hypothalamic clock-related gene expression, accompanied by increased oxidative stress and reduced expression of SIRT1/NRF2/HO-1 pathway-related proteins. In addition, CSR reduced body weight gain and triglyceride levels while increasing low-density lipoprotein (LDL), aspartate transaminase (AST), and alanine aminotransferase (ALT). In contrast, AR treatment partially reversed CSR-associated alterations in clock-related gene expression, attenuated oxidative stress, reduced LDL and ALT levels, and increased the expression of SIRT1/NRF2/HO-1 pathway-related proteins. These findings suggest that AR may mitigate CSR-associated molecular and metabolic alterations and warrant further investigation into its underlying mechanisms.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42553207 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552801 is a review article
Primary cutaneous T-lymphomas (CTCL), particularly in their early stages, frequently present with clinical and histopathologic features that overlap with atopic dermatitis (AD) and psoriasis, contributing to diagnostic delay and ineffective, or even deleterious, treatment approaches. Thus, minimally invasive molecular tests capable of distinguishing CTCL from benign inflammatory dermatoses are urgently needed.To determine whether tape strip transcriptomics can detect disease-specific signatures distinguishing early-stage CTCL from AD, psoriasis, and healthy control (HC) skin.Bulk RNA sequencing was performed on lesional and non-lesional tape strips from patients with mycosis fungoides (MF) (n=18), AD (n=36), psoriasis (n=32), and HC skin (n=30).Principal component analysis revealed distinct clustering of MF, AD, and psoriasis lesional skin relative to HC. MF displayed a mixed immune profile, contrasting with the strong Th2 and Th17/Th22 immune polarization of AD and psoriasis, respectively. Upregulated MF genes were involved in immune checkpoint regulation (CTLA4, ICOS), lymphoid trafficking (CCR7, CCR8), antigen presentation (HLA-DRA, LAMP3), T-cell survival (TNFSF13B, BIRC3), metabolism (BCAT1, ENPP4, LIPA), as well as cell structure and homeostasis (CLIC2, DOCK10, EPB41L3, MCOLN2, MS4A14, S100B). We identified a 5-marker gene classifier (including IL36A) that accurately distinguished MF from both AD and psoriasis, which was validated in an independent dataset.By capturing MF-specific signatures that are distinct from AD and psoriasis, tape stripping has the potential to serve as a diagnostic tool to help differentiate MF from its non-malignant mimickers.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
2-phenylbenzimidazole-5-sulfonic acid (PBSA), a widely used organic UV filter, is frequently detected in aquatic environments, yet its developmental neurotoxicity (DNT) remains poorly understood. Here, we exposed zebrafish embryos to 0.1-1000 μg/L PBSA and identified 10 μg/L as the effective concentration and 6-48 hours post-fertilization (hpf) as the sensitive developmental window for PBSA-induced DNT. Exposure to 10 μg/L PBSA during the critical window led to a significant increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels and inflammatory response, accompanied by astrocyte activation in specific brain region (elevated GFAP, S100B, and glutamine synthetase), while neurogenesis was inhibited independent of apoptosis. Moreover, PBSA exposure upregulated retinoid X receptor gamma (rxrga) expression and downregulated thrombospondin-1 (tsp-1) expression, with rxrga positively correlated with astrocyte activation markers and negatively correlated with tsp-1 levels. Knockdown of rxrga using morpholino rescued PBSA-induced tsp-1 suppression, neurogenesis impairments, and behavioral abnormalities at 120 hpf, while leaving astrocyte activation unaffected, suggesting that astrocyte activation may operate upstream of rxrga. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that PBSA exposure during a sensitive developmental window induces DNT through oxidative stress, inflammation, and astrocyte activation, with the rxrga/tsp-1 axis mediating neurogenesis inhibition. This study provides mechanistic insights into PBSA-induced neurotoxicity and emphasizes the importance of incorporating DNT assessment in UV filter safety evaluation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
S100B protein is a biomarker associated with central nervous system (CNS) injury following hypoxic-ischemic events. Measurement of S100B levels in umbilical cord blood may provide a noninvasive means of identifying newborns exposed to perinatal hypoxia related to fetal growth restriction (FGR) immediately after birth. Early detection of infants at increased risk of hypoxia-related CNS injury could facilitate closer surveillance, prompt diagnostic evaluation, and timely implementation of appropriate interventions, potentially improving long-term neurodevelopmental outcomes.This study investigates two groups of full-term pregnancies: a study group with prenatally diagnosed late FGR, and a control group with normal fetal growth. Following delivery, cord blood samples from both groups will be analyzed for S100B protein concentrations, pH, base excess (BE), and lactate levels. Additionally, fetal blood flow parameters in the umbilical artery (UA), uterine arteries (UtA), ductus venosus (DV), and middle cerebral artery (MCA) will be assessed via ultrasound within 48 hours before delivery. This study aims to compare S100B protein concentrations in umbilical cord blood between the two groups and evaluate its correlations with fetal Doppler parameters, pH, BE, and lactate levels in cord blood gas analysis. Additionally, it will evaluate the potential utility of S100B protein concentration as a biomarker associated with perinatal hypoxic stress in FGR-affected neonates.The study received approval from the Bioethics Committee of the Institute of Mother and Child in Warsaw (Decision No. 13/2024, dated 21 March 2024). The findings will be submitted for publication in peer-reviewed journals specializing in neonatology, pediatrics, obstetrics, and perinatology. Additionally, abstracts will be submitted to relevant national and international conferences.The study is registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (Identifier: NCT06893926).Copyright: © 2026 Drozdowska-Szymczak et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42545797 is a review article
Approximately half of the adult sinoatrial node (SAN) consists of non-myocyte populations, indicating that cardiac pacemaking depends on interactions within a multicellular tissue rather than on pacemaker cardiomyocytes alone. Among these, an S100B-associated cell population has been implicated in pacemaker function, yet its identity and physiological roles remain poorly understood. These cells are rare and dispersed throughout the small, structurally complex SAN, making them difficult to observe repeatedly while preserving the native multicellular environment. Here, we established a dissociated multicellular culture of adult mouse SAN tissue on soft collagen-gelatin hydrogels that retains spontaneous electrical activity and permits longitudinal live imaging of S100B-associated cells. Using an S100B-EGFP+ reporter, we identified at least six reproducible morphological and behavioral phenotypes, including migration, proliferation, phagocytic behavior, and spontaneous self-organization into three-dimensional clusters. Cultures remained spontaneously electrically active for more than 10 days in vitro, with peak activity around day 10. This multicellular culture model bridges the gap between intact SAN preparations and isolated-cell cultures, allowing repeated observation of rare S100B-associated cells within a spontaneously active multicellular environment.
Previous studies have shown that Heliox, a mixture of 32% oxygen and 68% helium administered at a warm temperature, is effective in treating ischemic brain injury caused by cerebral arterial air embolism. At the same time, therapeutic hypothermia has been shown to lead to a favorable neurological outcome in patients in the acute phase of ischemic stroke; however, there are no published data on the use of Heliox at room temperature after ischemic stroke. All published data indicate only the efficacy of heated Heliox. The most effective temperature regimen for Heliox inhalation to prevent neurological deficits in stroke remains unknown.Three Heliox inhalation temperature regimens were studied at 20-22 °C, 40-50 °C, and 60-70 °C. The mixture was administered immediately after inducing ischemic stroke in awake rats using a model of cerebral arterial air embolism. Respiratory and cardiovascular function, as well as body temperature, coordination, muscle strength, and serum calcium binding protein B (S100B) concentrations were studied 24 hours after embolization. A brain histopathological study was also performed.Inhalation of heated Heliox (40-50 °C and 60-70 °C) immediately after cerebral arterial air embolism was shown to be an effective method for maintaining respiratory and cardiovascular function and body temperature, for preventing the development of foci of ischemic brain damage on 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC)-stained sections of the brain, and for partially preserving coordination, muscle strength, locomotor activity, and for a partial reduction in serum S100B concentration during the acute phase of ischemic stroke in rats compared to the untreated group with cerebral arterial air embolism (CAE). Unheated Heliox had a negative effect on experimental animals, and decreased a survival rate to 62.5%.Heated Heliox has an equally positive effect at temperatures of 40-50 °C and 60-70 °C, and significantly alleviated the symptoms of ischemic stroke during the acute phase. In contrast, unheated Heliox at room temperature (20-22 °C) had a negative effect on the course of ischemic stroke in rats.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) primarily relies on traditional adjuvant chemotherapy and radiotherapy, which have significant side effects and are prone to drug resistance. Poly ADP-ribose polymerase inhibitor (PARPi) has been approved for TNBC patients with BRCA mutation, but some BRCA wild-type patients with homologous recombination deficiencies are also sensitive to PARPi. Therefore, it is important to identify potential molecules that influence PARPi sensitivity in BRCA wild-type TNBC and to explore their specific mechanisms. Through CRISPR-cas9 loss-of-function screening, the lncRNA MTUS2-AS1 was identified to be significantly correlated with PARPi sensitivity in BRCA wild-type TNBC cells. In vitro and in vivo experiments were performed to investigate its function and underlying mechanism. We found that MTUS2-AS1 knockdown suppressed DNA damage repair and enhanced the anticancer effects of PARPi in BRCA-wild TNBC cells. Mechanistically, MTUS2-AS1 upregulates DDX5 protein expression by maintaining its stability, thereby promoting R-loop resolution, and suppressing DNA damage. Knocking down MTUS2-AS1 accelerated DDX5 protein degradation, reduced DDX5 protein expression, inhibitd R-loop resolution, promoted DNA damage, and ultimately enhanced the PARPi sensitivity in TNBC cells. Our study provided new insights into exploring the key molecules and mechanisms influencing the sensitivity of PARPi treatment and had great significance for screening benefit population and expanding the indications of PARPi treatment.© The author(s).
Neuroinflammation and blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption are increasingly recognized as key pathophysiological mechanisms in epilepsy. Plasminogen Activator Inhibitor-1 (PAI-1), a critical regulator of fibrinolysis and extracellular matrix remodeling, has been implicated in inflammatory processes, but its specific role in pediatric epilepsy remains largely unexplored. This study aimed to investigate the association of PAI-1 with neuroinflammation, seizure susceptibility, and clinical outcomes in a cohort of pediatric epilepsy patients.In this case-control study, we enrolled 200 pediatric patients with epilepsy and 100 age- and sex-matched healthy controls. Serum levels of PAI-1, pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines (including IL-6, IL-1β, TNF-α), and markers of BBB disruption and neuronal injury (S100B, NSE, GFAP) were quantified using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA). Comprehensive clinical data, including seizure frequency, epilepsy type, and treatment response, were collected. Statistical analyses, including t-tests, ANOVA, Pearson correlation, and multivariate linear regression, were performed to assess group differences and identify predictors of seizure severity. Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) analysis was used to evaluate the diagnostic performance of PAI-1.Serum PAI-1 levels were significantly elevated in epilepsy patients compared to healthy controls (28.47 ± 12.10 ng/mL vs. 11.35 ± 5.05 ng/mL; p < 0.001). PAI-1 concentrations demonstrated a strong positive correlation with seizure frequency (r = 0.537, p < 0.001) and were significantly higher in patients with drug-resistant epilepsy (p < 0.001). ROC analysis revealed that PAI-1 is an excellent diagnostic biomarker for epilepsy (AUC = 0.916). Among all variables included in the model, PAI-1 showed the strongest independent association with monthly seizure frequency (β = 10.79, 95% CI: 8.30-13.28, p < 0.001), supporting its role as a biomarker of seizure burden rather than a standalone clinical predictor of seizure occurrence. Furthermore, PAI-1 levels were significantly correlated with markers of neuroinflammation (IL-6: r = 0.270, p < 0.001) and BBB disruption (S100B: r = 0.271, p < 0.001). Higher PAI-1 levels were also associated with poorer quality of life scores (r = -0.227, p < 0.001).PAI-1 is significantly elevated in pediatric epilepsy and is associated with seizure burden, neuroinflammatory activation, BBB disruption, drug resistance, and poorer quality of life. In this clinical setting, PAI-1 may be more useful as a risk-stratification biomarker for identifying children with higher disease burden and possible treatment resistance, rather than as a standalone tool for predicting seizure occurrence. Longitudinal studies are needed to determine whether baseline or dynamic changes in PAI-1 can predict AED response, treatment escalation, and progression toward drug-resistant epilepsy.© 2026 Xiao, Shi, Feng, Zhou, Wang, Zhang, Xu and Tang.
BackgroundDifferential expression of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) in brain, serum, and blood show strong potential to distinguish Alzheimer's disease (AD) from healthy controls.ObjectiveTo explore whether lncRNA signatures delineate AD pathology and map to distinct, multidimensional cognitive domains, enhancing specificity in assessing AD severity and progression.MethodsWe profiled 29,603 lncRNAs transcripts in blood samples from 15 AD patients and 15 healthy controls, alongside comprehensive neuropsychological assessments. Generalized Linear Models and Predictive Power Score analyses, with statistical prioritization, identified lncRNAs associated to AD neuropsychological architecture.ResultsSeveral lncRNAs share strongly associated with cognitive performance and AD severity, mapping to genes involved in key AD-related molecular processes, including synaptic and neurotransmitter regulation (e.g., EPHB1, CHRNA4, TEAD1), protein homeostasis and Aβ pathology (e.g., FBXL2, FAM221A, APP), mitochondrial function and cellular stress (e.g., VDAC3, PPT2-EGFL8), neuroinflammation and immune regulation (e.g., TEAD1, EMX2OS, LY6E-DT), epigenetic and transcriptional control (e.g., PRDM2, DLEU1, FIRRE), neuronal excitability (e.g., KCNJ14), and neuroprotection and synaptic plasticity (e.g., SIL1). Novel associations included ferroptosis, DNA stability, microtubule dynamics, and dendritic orientation (e.g., BTB3, DICER1, GNG7, IBA57, NEAT1, POT1, SRD5A3).ConclusionsWe identify candidate lncRNA signatures that may serve as potential biomarkers and enhance our understanding of the molecular basis of the cognitive architecture in AD, opening new avenues for biomarker identification and targeted therapeutic strategies development. Validation in larger, diverse cohorts is essential to confirm their mechanistic contributions to AD.
The mammalian auditory sensory epithelium consists of hair cells (HCs), whose stereociliary bundles convert sound-evoked vibrations into electrical signals, and supporting cells (SCs), which provide mechanical stability. The transcription factor SIX1 is essential during otic neurosensory cell specification and HC commitment, but its contribution after birth has remained elusive. Here, we show that SIX1 is required for maintaining the structure and function of the adult cochlear sensory epithelium. Conditional deletion of Six1 in SCs or HCs of young adult mice causes profound deafness. SC-specific deletion disrupts epithelial organization and promotes SC loss with secondary HC degeneration, whereas HC-specific loss results in stereociliary-bundle defects and progressive HC death. To define early molecular defects, we performed single-nucleus RNA-seq before widespread degeneration and found early collapse of mature HC identity and functional gene programs, including mechanotransduction, stereociliary-bundle, and synaptic networks. SIX1 ChIP-seq analysis in the mature cochleamapped SIX1 occupancy at regulatory elements near genes involved in epithelial junctions, actin/cytoskeletal regulation, ion transport, mechanotransduction, and cell survival, and overlapped with a subset of Six1-dependent transcripts and deafness loci. Together, these results identify SIX1 as a key transcriptional regulator of adult cochlear homeostasis and reveal downstream gene networks that preserve sensory epithelial integrity and hearing throughout life.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) exhibits stem-like characteristics that drive tumor aggressiveness and treatment resistance. The molecular chaperone Glucose-Regulated Protein 78 (GRP78) is substantially elevated in NSCLC compared to normal tissues and cell lines. In clinical samples, GRP78 protein levels correlated with advanced tumor stage and lymph node metastasis. Pharmacological inhibition of GRP78 using BAPTA-AM and GRP78-IN-3 significantly suppressed NSCLC cell viability while promoting apoptosis. The inhibitors effectively attenuated cell migration by downregulating matrix metalloproteinases and reversed epithelial-mesenchymal transition by modulating key cadherin expression profiles. Importantly, GRP78 inhibition substantially reduced cancer stem cell markers and impaired spheroid formation capability. Genetic knockdown of GRP78 in A549 and H1975 cells recapitulated the effects of pharmacological inhibition, reducing cell migration, reversing EMT, attenuating stemness, and suppressing β-catenin signaling. Conversely, GRP78 overexpression in A549 and H1975 cells induced opposite effects, promoting mesenchymal markers, enhancing stemness proteins, and increasing spheroid size. Mechanistic studies revealed that this anti-tumor activity operates through suppression of β-catenin signaling mediated by SIX1, as evidenced by SIX1-overexpression rescue experiments. These findings demonstrate that GRP78 acts as a key regulator of NSCLC stemness and metastatic potential by coordinating epithelial plasticity and stemness pathways, positioning it as a promising therapeutic target for NSCLC treatment.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Mammarenaviruses (MaAv) cause persistent infections in diverse rodent reservoirs worldwide and several are zoonotic pathogens with an important public-health burden in their endemic regions. Moreover, the globally distributed MaAv lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) is an underrecognized pathogen of clinical significance in congenital infections and immunocompromised individuals. The lack of FDA-approved vaccines or antivirals for MaAv infections underscores the urgent need for novel anti-MaAv therapeutic strategies. Neutral sphingomyelinase 2 (nSMase2) was recently identified as a host factor contributing to LCMV multiplication, and its inhibitor cambinol exhibits dose-dependent antiviral activity against LCMV but the underlying mechanisms remain undefined. Here, we show that cambinol disrupts multiple stages of the LCMV life cycle. Cambinol inhibits the pH-dependent fusion event mediated by MaAv glycoprotein, a step required for completion of virus cell entry. It also reduces viral ribonucleoprotein (vRNP)-directed genome replication and transcription and impairs the budding activity of the virus matrix Z protein. Cambinol also inhibits sirtuins 1 and 2 (Sirt-1 and Sirt-2), two NAD + -dependent protein deacetylases with pleiotropic roles in cellular metabolism and stress responses, raising the question of whether cambinol anti-LCMV activity reflects nSMase2 inhibition alone or also involves sirtuin-dependent pathways. LCMV multiplication was significantly reduced in SIRT1, but not SIRT2, knockout (KO) cells, uncovering a pro-viral role for Sirt-1 in the LCMV life cycle. Consistent with this finding, LCMV vRNP activity and production of infectious progeny were reduced in SIRT1 KO cells. These findings identify Sirt-1 as a host factor required for optimal LCMV multiplication. Sirt-1 inhibitors are in clinical development for oncological and neurological indications, raising the possibility of repurposing Sirt-1 inhibitors as host-directed antivirals (HDAs) against human pathogenic MaAv.
Sirtuins (SIRTs) involvement in different biological pathways opens a promising scenario for the development of related ligands to be evaluated as therapeutic agents in different diseases, such as cancer, neurodegenerative disorders, diabetes, cardiovascular and autoimmune diseases. The continuous elucidation of several SIRT2-ligand complexes fostered the discovery of novel and more selective SIRT2 inhibitors (SIRT2Is). Among them, SIRT2 in the presence of SirReal2 analogues was the most investigated. We recently reported pyrazolo-pyrimidine compounds (1-5) as SIRT2Is (1, SIRT2 % inhibition = 81.2%, at 150 μM). Herein, combined ligand- and structure-based approaches enabled us to filter a further series of pyrazolo-pyrimidine-based analogues (6-16) endowed with improved SIRT2 inhibitory activity in comparison to 1-5. The applied molecular modelling studies revealed superimposable molecular interaction fields (MIFs) and protein-ligand contacts compared with the reference SIRT2Is. Subsequent biochemical and biological assays validated the reported strategy and pointed to compounds 11 and 15 (SIRT2 IC50 = 0.3 and 0.1 μM, respectively) as the most promising SIRT2Is, to be further investigated as anticancer agent.This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.
In order to investigate the therapeutic mechanism of Jianpiyiqi Granule in juvenile myasthenia gravis (JMG) and find the immune-associated cytokines or signaling pathways targeted by this intervention.(1) We extracted JMG serum samples from the sample bank of the Hebei Provincial Key Laboratory of Myasthenia Gravis before and after treatment. (2) Using Olink Immune Response Panel detects serum cytokines. Data were collated and analyzed using statistical software. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were visualized using heat maps, volcano plots, and other tools. Differentially expressed cytokines were analyzed using KEGG enrichment pathway analysis to identify the relevant signaling pathways they participate in.(1) Twelve of 92 cytokines were found to be differentially expressed from 20 patients before and after treatment, namely AXIN1, CCL11, CCL13, CCL20, CCL25, CCL3, CD40, IL12B, S100A12, SIRT2, SLAMF1, and STAMBP (|log2FC| > 0.263; false discovery rate (FDR)-adjusted p < 0.05). IL12B was upregulated while AXIN1, CCL11, CCL13, CCL20, CCL25, CCL3, CD40, S100A12, SIRT2, SLAMF1 and STAMBP were downregulated after treatment. Notably, three of these-CCL11, IL12B, and STAMBP-showed stronger statistical evidence, with FDR-adjusted p < 0.01 and |log2FC| > 0.263. (2) The following pathways were obtained by KEGG enrichment analysis of 12 cytokines: cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, viral protein interaction with cytokine and cytokine receptor, chemokine signaling pathway, Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling pathway, intestinal immune network for IgA production, IL-17 signaling pathway, NF-kappa B signaling pathway. (3) CCL11 and CCL20 were enriched in the IL-17 signaling pathway. We used enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to retest additional serum samples before and after treatment from 12 JMG patients before and after treatment. The results showed a significant decrease in CCL11 and CCL20 in after-treatment serum (p < 0.05).Drug therapy for JMG revealed 12 differentially expressed cytokines. Due to the exploratory nature and sample volume constraints, only two candidate cytokines were validated by ELISA. We found that the cytokines CCL11 and CCL20-associated with the IL-17 signaling pathway-were downregulated after treatment. The drug therapy may inhibit MG progression by reducing the expression of IL-17-associated cytokines. At the same time, the drug reduced the expression of CCL3, CCL13, CCL25, and CD40, which may play a role in the abnormal proliferation of thymocytes and chronic inflammatory response at the neuromuscular junction. Future studies with multiplex assays are needed to confirm the involvement of other differentially expressed cytokines, such as SIRT2 and AXIN1, which may contribute to disease mechanisms outside the identified pathways.Copyright © 2026 Yuanyuan Geng et al. Journal of Immunology Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
We studied the dose-dependent effects of the NAD+ precursor nicotinamide riboside (NR) on tumor angiogenesis in C57BL/6N mice with Lewis lung carcinoma. The pharmacological agent was repeatedly administered intravenously at doses of 300 and 450 mg/kg. Iimmunohistochemical analysis (CD34 class II, clone QBEnd 10) showed that the administration of NR at a dose of 450 mg/kg led to a significant increase in the density of tumor vessels in comparison with animals not treated with NR, while the area of tumor necrosis did not change significantly. These findings align with the RT-qPCR data, specifically the upregulation of Sirt2, the downregulation of Sirt1, Sirt3, and Parp1, and the absence of significant changes in the expression of Nos3 and Vegfa. These findings indicate a pro-angiogenic effect of a high dose of NR, which can be considered in the context of a "vascular normalization" strategy to enhance the delivery of chemotherapeutic agents.© 2026. Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42509095 is a review article
Cellular senescence is closely associated with mitochondrial dysfunction. Sirtuin 2 (Sirt2), a member of the Sirtuin deacetylases family, plays a pivotal role in regulating energy metabolism and aging in mammals. However, its function in social insect aging remains unclear. Here, using the Eastern honey bee (Apis cerana) as a model, we demonstrate that the age-related downregulation of A. cerana Sirt2 (AcSirt2) in brain tissue is coupled with progressive mitochondrial damage, reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation, and a biphasic change in autophagy activity. Conversely, overexpression of AcSirt2 alleviates cellular senescence by promoting mitochondrial fusion/fission balance (via Mfn1, Mfn2, and Drp1), activating the PINK1/Parkin-mediated mitophagy pathway, improving mitochondrial integrity, reducing oxidative stress, and enhancing ATP production. In vivo, AcSirt2 knockdown shortens honey bee lifespan and impairs locomotor ability, whereas its activation reverses these aging phenotypes. Furthermore, we show that AcSirt2 interacts with the transcription factor FOXO and mediates its deacetylation. This study reveals for the first time that the AcSirt2-FOXO-mitophagy axis delays aging by maintaining mitochondrial homeostasis in a social insect, providing novel insights into the development of anti-aging strategies and the promotion of healthy beekeeping.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42502934 is a review article
Ovarian cancer is a heterogeneous solid tumor, whereas polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a distinct endocrine-metabolic ovarian disorder. Whether PCOS-associated ovarian dysregulation and ovarian cancer share convergent transcriptomic candidates remains unclear. This study aimed to identify shared transcriptomic candidates and define their cellular localization without implying a causal or clinical comorbidity relationship.Public bulk transcriptomic datasets from PCOS and ovarian cancer underwent platform-specific preprocessing, within-disease-arm harmonization, differential-expression analysis, robust rank aggregation, and machine-learning-based feature prioritization with SHapley Additive exPlanations. Single-cell RNA sequencing datasets were used to localize prioritized genes in PCOS-related ovarian cell populations and high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC)-derived compartments. Preliminary validation used DHEA-treated KGN cells and siRNA-mediated SIX4 knockdown in SKOV3 cells. Exploratory docking and molecular dynamics simulation assessed the structural tractability of a SIX4-centered axis.Integrated analysis identified shared molecular dysregulation enriched in cell-cycle regulation, chromosome segregation, epithelial remodeling, and Wnt-related pathways. Five candidate genes were prioritized: SIX4, CCNE1, MMP7, KIF2C, and GPX3. SIX4 was the highest-ranked contributor within the computational model. Single-cell analysis showed compartment-specific localization, with SIX4 enriched in HGSOC-derived epithelial populations. DHEA increased SIX4 expression in KGN cells, whereas SIX4 knockdown suppressed SKOV3 proliferation, migration, and colony formation. Molecular dynamics suggested stable predicted engagement between SIX4 and a Benzbromarone-related scaffold.This study identifies SIX4 as a candidate epithelial target in ovarian cancer within a shared, noncausal transcriptomic program associated with PCOS-related ovarian dysregulation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Yeast culture (YC) is widely applied as a functional feed additive, yet the mechanisms by which it regulates hepatic health, metabolism, and immune capacity in teleosts remain unclear. Here, juvenile Plectropomus leopardus were fed diets supplemented with 2.0% (YC2.0) or 8.0% YC (YC8.0) for 60 days, followed by hepatic histophysiological assessment, liver transcriptomic/metabolomic profiling, and an in vitro hepatocyte challenge with nervous necrosis virus (NNV). YC2.0 pincreased lipid droplet accumulation, improved antioxidant status, and lower aspartate aminotransferase(AST)/alanine aminotransferase (ALT)/alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and MDA in the liver than the control (Con) and YC8.0 groups. RNA-seq identified 915 hepatic differentially expressed genes (DEGs): YC2.0-specific genes were enriched in steroid hormone biosynthesis, bile secretion, and rhythmic regulation, whereas YC8.0-upregulated clusters were enriched in NOD-like receptor and JAK-STAT signaling, hematopoietic cell lineage, and apoptosis, with elevated immune- and apoptosis-related markers (nlrp1, mcub, myc, map1lc3b, and gadd45β/γ). Metabolomics identified 680 differential metabolites across the three groups, showing that YC2.0 predominantly enhanced purine/nucleotide and glycerophospholipid metabolism, while YC8.0 shifted toward amino acid-centered pathways (arginine biosynthesis, histidine metabolism, and FoxO signaling). Multiomics integration revealed positive correlations of L-aspartic acid (L-Asp) and glutamic acid (Glu) with inflammatory DEGs, and of glycerophosphoethanolamine (Geptn) with apoptosis-related DEGs. In vitro, YC pretreatment alleviated NNV-induced cytopathic effects (CPEs) in hepatocytes, suppressed viral mRNA accumulation, and reduced the mRNA levels of inflammatory cytokines (il1β, ifng, il6, il12a, il16, and tnfsf14) and immune pathway related DEGs. Collectively, these results characterize dose-dependent effects of YC on hepatic physiology and immune regulation, supporting its application as a functional aquafeed supplement.Copyright © 2026 Chenlin Yin et al. Aquaculture Nutrition published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42472105 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42463860
Apolipoprotein A-IV (apoA-IV) plays key roles in lipid metabolism, reverse cholesterol transport, and kidney function, yet its genetic determinants remain poorly defined. We conduct a genome-wide association study (GWAS) meta-analysis of apoA-IV concentrations measured by ELISA in 25,181 individuals and combine these with proteomic data from 33,995 UK Biobank participants (Olink platform), yielding a total sample of 59,176. We perform genetic correlations and colocalization analyses to explore links with lipid, renal, and other complex traits.The GWAS identifies several novel loci to be associated with apoA-IV concentrations (TDRD5, DPP4, MYL3, MORC1, MCUB, GATA4, ZPR1, UMOD, GLP2R, SLC38A10 and APOE) besides two previously identified loci (APOA5-A4-C3-A1 cluster and KLKB1). Cross-platform comparison shows strong concordance of effect directions and magnitudes, underscoring the robustness of findings across measurement techniques. Global genetic correlation reveals significant shared genetic architecture between apoA-IV, kidney function and HDL-cholesterol, while colocalization supports shared causal variants with lipid, renal, and hematological phenotypes, suggesting biologically relevant pathways.These results provide a comprehensive overview of the genetic architecture of apoA-IV and suggest mechanistic links to lipid metabolism, kidney function and blood-related traits. Our findings refine the role of apoA-IV as a potential biomarker and inform future epidemiological research.© 2026. The Author(s).
Alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma (aRMS) is a fusion-driven pediatric cancer with poor survival and limited therapeutic options. To uncover novel vulnerabilities, we employed complex-based analysis of the DepMap functional genomic data, identifying CDK8 as a dependency in aRMS. Both CDK8 knockout and pharmacologic inhibition impaired tumor cell growth and induced myogenic differentiation in vitro and in vivo. Compared to genetic loss, CDK8 pharmacologic inhibition induced more dynamic transcriptional changes. With a genome-scale CRISPR-Cas9 drug modifier screen, we determined that the maximal anti-tumor activity of the CDK8 inhibitor requires the presence of the Mediator kinase module, including CDK8, and transcriptional cooperation with the SAGA complex. We further identified SIX4 as a key transcription factor mediating CDK8 inhibitor-induced transcriptional activation of myogenic differentiation genes and impaired tumor proliferation. These findings suggest a distinct gain-of-function mechanism of the CDK8 inhibitor and establish a strong rationale for CDK8 inhibition as a differentiation-inducing therapeutic strategy in aRMS.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) represents the third most prevalent malignancy globally and ranks as the second leading contributor to cancer-related mortality. Lysine crotonylation, a novel post-translational modification, regulates chromatin dynamics through its dual substrate specificity targeting both histones and non-histone proteins.We quantitatively compared crotonylation levels between colorectal tumor specimens and paired adjacent normal tissues. The function and mechanism of specific crotonylation sites in hypercrotonylated proteins were further explored both in vitro and in vivo by introducing mutations that mimic decrotonylation at the crotonylation sites of CDK1.Quantitative analysis revealed a significant elevation of global crotonylation in colorectal tumor specimens compared to adjacent normal tissues. Through LC-MS/MS analysis, we identified the CDK1 9th lysine crotonylated, and that decrotonylated of CDK1-K9 inhibited colorectal tumor proliferation and migration in vitro and in vivo by arresting the cell cycle at the G2/M phase and inducing apoptosis. Mechanistically, histone acetyltransferase hMOF (KAT8) and histone deacetylase HDAC1 co-mediated CDK1 K9 crotonylation, and the decrotonylated mutation was observed to decrease the interaction of CDK1 with cyclin and kinase activity. Moreover, CDK1 K9 decrotonylation and CDK1 inhibitor RO-3306 exert synergistic effects.We revealed the role of non-histone protein crotonylation in regulating the proliferation and migration of colorectal tumor. Crotonylation inhibited cell proliferation through the crotonylated CDK1 K9 by arresting the cell cycle and inducing apoptosis, and exerts a synergistic effect with the RO-3306 inhibitor.Copyright © 2026 Li, Cai, Lin, Li, Chen, Feng, Zhou, Xie, Fu, Li, Xiao and Yang.
Intrinsic resistance limits chemo-immunotherapy efficacy in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). While metabolic reprogramming is linked to immune evasion, the precise mechanistic orchestration remains unclear. Here, utilizing single-cell transcriptomics and quantitative lactylome profiling, we show that elevated tumor lactate drives resistance by broadly suppressing PANoptosis. Mechanistically, under chemotherapeutic stress, the Lysine acetyltransferase 8 (KAT8) catalyzes the specific lactylation of the inner mitochondrial membrane ADP/ATP translocator 2 (ANT2) at K92. Lactylated ANT2 recruits the phosphoglycerate mutase 5 (PGAM5) to dephosphorylate Cyclophilin D (CypD). This cascade restricts mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP) opening, preserving mitochondrial homeostasis and averting immunogenic cell death. Crucially, a cell-penetrating competitive peptide targeting the KAT8-ANT2 interface effectively uncouples this metabolic lock, re-sensitizing TNBC tumors to cytotoxic stress and restoring chemo-immunotherapy efficacy in vivo. Our findings unveil a profound mechanistic link between the Warburg effect and mitochondrial homeostasis, establishing KAT8-mediated ANT2 lactylation as a targetable vulnerability to improve chemo-immunotherapy efficacy.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
The cytochrome P450 family 26 subfamily B polypeptide 1 (CYP26B1) gene plays a crucial role in the regulation of retinoic acid metabolism, which is involved in various physiological processes in cattle, including reproduction and development. Therefore, studying genetic variation in the CYP26B1 gene can provide valuable baseline information for understanding its molecular diversity in cattle.This study aimed to identify single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and assess the genetic diversity of CYP26B1 in Bali bulls.Blood samples were collected from 10 Bali cattle bulls at the Artificial Insemination Center in Singosari, Malang, East Java, Indonesia. The coding region of CYP26B1 was amplified and sequenced. SNP identification and sequence analyses were performed using the MEGA software version 12. Allele and genotype frequencies, observed and expected heterozygosity (Ho and He), and Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium were evaluated using a chi-square (χ²) test.Six SNPs were identified within the 1.539-bp coding region of the CYP26B1 gene, namely c.528 C>T, c.624 G>A, c.948 G>A, c.1005 C>T, c.1098 G>T, and c.1125 G>A. Five SNPs showed an allele frequency of 0.95/0.05, while SNP c.1125 G>A showed an allele frequency of 0.40/0.60. All SNPs identified were synonymous and did not result in amino acid substitutions. None of the SNPs within this sample deviated from the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (χ² = 1.7-3.2; p > 0.05).The SNPs identified in Bali bulls indicate low-to-moderate genetic variation among the individuals sampled. These findings provide preliminary molecular information that may serve as a reference for future studies using larger sample sizes and functional approaches to clarify the potential relevance of CYP26B1 variation.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is a prevalent liver disorder linked to metabolic syndrome, but its extrahepatic drivers and persistence mechanisms remain unclear.Transcriptomics was performed on adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs) from distinct adipose depots in dynamic MASLD mouse models. A dietary reversal model was used to assess transcriptional retention. Candidate genes were identified via integrated DNA methylome and transcriptome analysis. Cyp26b1 function was tested by perirenal ADSCs-specific knockdown, and involved downstream mechanisms were investigated.Perirenal ADSCs exhibited an early dysregulated transcriptional signature in MASLD and retained high transcriptional retention after reversal. Multi-omics identified Cyp26b1 as a persistent, epigenetically regulated driver. Knockdown of Cyp26b1 in perirenal ADSCs attenuated MASLD progression, potentially by modulating the CCL3-CCR5 axis to alleviate hepatic steatosis and inflammation.This study reveals an ADSC-mediated perirenal adipose-liver axis and establishes pathological "memory" in ADSCs as a perpetuating factor in MASLD. Transcriptional retention in perirenal ADSCs and its key regulator Cyp26b1 represent potential theoretical targets for exploring the mechanism and intervention of cellular "memory" in MASLD.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Asian Pacific Association for the Study of the Liver.
Radiation-induced lung injury, a well-recognized complication of thoracic radiotherapy, can progress to pulmonary fibrosis, sharing pathological features with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Although nintedanib is widely used as an antifibrotic agent, the therapeutic benefit of combination strategies remains partially understood. Therefore, in this study, we aimed to evaluate the effects of combined metformin and nintedanib treatment in a mouse model of irradiation-induced lung fibrosis. Female C57BL/6 mice were subjected to localized irradiation of 90 Gy in the left lung and treated daily with metformin, nintedanib or both drugs for 6 weeks. Lung fibrosis was assessed using gross examination, hydroxyproline quantification, histopathological scoring and quantitative image analysis. Changes in fibrosis- and injury-related proteins were examined by western blotting, including transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β), a profibrotic cytokine; SMAD family member 7 (SMAD7), an inhibitory regulator of TGF-β signaling; and surfactant protein D (SP-D), a lung epithelial injury-associated protein. Nintedanib-containing treatments improved histological lung injury in irradiated mice, including reduced collagen deposition, low pathological scores and preserved air space structure. Hydroxyproline content was also lower in the combination treatment group than in the other groups. The nintedanib-containing treatments suppressed irradiation-induced upregulation of transforming growth factor-β expression, and SMAD7 expression was selectively upregulated following combined treatment. In addition, elevated SP-D level following irradiation was partially reduced following nintedanib administration. These findings suggest that combined metformin and nintedanib treatment may provide a broader protective profile against radiation-induced pulmonary fibrosis, particularly in association with SMAD7 upregulation, although further studies are required to clarify whether the combination provides significant advantages over nintedanib monotherapy.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Japanese Radiation Research Society and Japanese Society for Radiation Oncology.
Veratramine is a natural steroidal alkaloid derived from plants of the genus Veratrum that exhibits anti-inflammatory potential. However, its pharmacological mechanisms and direct molecular targets in asthmatic airway remodelling remain unclear, particularly regarding its role in regulating metabolism-epigenetic crosstalk within the airway microenvironment.This study aimed to determine whether Veratramine downregulates pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) to suppress lactate accumulation, thereby inhibiting cAMP response element-binding protein 1 (CREB1) lactylation, restoring SMAD family member 7 (SMAD7) expression, and ultimately reversing transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β)-driven airway remodelling.A house dust mite (HDM)-induced murine asthma model was established to assess Veratramine efficacy. Molecular docking, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, and cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA) confirmed its interaction with PKM2. Mass spectrometry, CUT&Tag sequencing, site-directed mutagenesis (K122R/Q), and adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated in vivo gene delivery were used to delineate the signalling axis.Veratramine dose-dependently attenuated HDM-induced airway inflammation, goblet cell metaplasia, and subepithelial collagen deposition. It was shown to bind to and downregulate PKM2, thereby reducing pulmonary lactate accumulation. Mechanistically, HDM induced CREB1 lactylation at K122, limiting its conformational flexibility and promoting repression of the antifibrotic gene SMAD7, leading to TGF-β pathway activation and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Inhibition of K122 lactylation or restoration of SMAD7 effectively reversed airway remodelling.This study identifies a novel "PKM2-lactate-CREB1 lactylation-SMAD7" axis driving airway remodelling in asthma. Veratramine acts as a PKM2 modulator, restoring SMAD7-mediated negative feedback via metabolic reprogramming, and represents a promising lead for anti-remodelling therapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
To investigate the role of Nuclear receptor subfamily 5, group A, member 2 (NR5A2) in the seasonal regulation of follicle development in striped hamsters (Cricetulus barabensis), we collected 32 adult females, eight individuals from each season (spring, summer, autumn, and winter). Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining was performed to quantify seasonal variations in follicle numbers across distinct developmental stages. Serum concentrations of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), and luteinizing hormone (LH), as well as fecal concentrations of estradiol (E2) and progesterone (P4), were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Ovarian NR5A2 mRNA levels were quantified by real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR). Spearman's correlation analyses were conducted to examine associations between ovarian NR5A2 mRNA levels and follicle counts at each developmental stage, as well as between NR5A2 mRNA levels and serum and fecal reproductive hormone concentrations. The numbers of follicles at different developmental stages and ovarian NR5A2 mRNA levels exhibit pronounced seasonal variation (P < 0.01). Specifically, primary follicle counts peak in winter, whereas secondary and antral follicle numbers reach their seasonal minima during this period. Concurrently, ovarian NR5A2 mRNA levels in winter are significantly lower than those in spring, summer, and autumn (P < 0.01). Serum concentrations of GnRH, FSH, and LH, as well as fecal concentrations of E2 and P4, also display significant seasonal differences, all five hormones being markedly lower in winter compared with the other three seasons (P < 0.01). Furthermore, NR5A2 mRNA levels and fecal E2 and P4 concentrations were negatively correlated with primary follicle number but positively correlated with secondary and antral follicle numbers, suggesting that NR5A2, E2, and P4 collectively facilitate the transition from the primary to more advanced follicle stages. These findings indicate that winter environmental conditions suppress overall follicle development in striped hamsters, and the concomitant downregulation of ovarian NR5A2, correlating significantly with follicle counts, suggests a functionally relevant role for this transcription factor in seasonal follicle development. These results provide a theoretical foundation for ecologically sustainable population management strategies, supporting the rational design of targeted interventions, such as pharmacological agents, that selectively modulate population size in the target species while minimizing off-target effects on non-target organisms.© 2026. The Author(s).
Integrin subunit α5 (ITGA5) has been recognized as a potential diagnostic biomarker across multiple cancer types. ITGA5 is upregulated in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC), with poor prognosis and high mortality, accounts for two-thirds of HNSCC cases. However, the biological functions and underlying mechanisms of ITGA5 in OSCC progression remain unclear. In the present study, we analyzed the expression, prognostic significance, function, and co-expression genes of ITGA5 in HNSCC using a series of public biological information databases, detected the role of ITGA5 in OSCC progression, and discussed the underlying mechanisms. The results indicate that both the mRNA and protein level of ITGA5 were upregulated and related to the prognosis of HNSCC. Knockdown of ITGA5 inhibited cell proliferation, invasion, migration, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). However, overexpression of snail family transcriptional repressor 2 (SNAI2) reversed the function of ITGA5 in regulating OSCC cell proliferation, invasion, migration, and EMT. In conclusion, our study suggests that ITGA5 is upregulated in HNSCC and associated with poor prognosis; functional studies indicate ITGA5 promotes OSCC proliferation and metastasis via SNAI2, indicating that ITGA5 may be a potential therapeutic target for OSCC.Copyright © 2026 Li, Kong, Zhou, Gu, Sun, Ding, Zou, Zhang and Meng.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short RNA molecules that bind to target mRNAs, resulting in translational repression and gene silencing. Overexpression of microRNA-21 (miR-21) is associated with various human diseases, including autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) and pulmonary fibrosis. In this study, a previously described heterobifunctional molecule, TGP-21-RiboTAC, that degrades the miR-21 precursor (pre-miR-21) in triple-negative breast cancer cells was investigated in polycystic kidney cell lines and a lung fibroblast cell line. In the former, TGP-21-RiboTAC degraded pre-miR-21 and derepressed miR-21's downstream targets, programmed cell death 4 (PDCD4) and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα), known drivers of ADPKD. The heterobifunctional molecule also inhibited cyst growth and rescued the metabolic alterations that occur in ADPKD. In the lung fibroblast cell line, MRC-5, TGP-21-RiboTAC also reduced pre- and mature miR-21 levels, rescued transforming growth factor β (TGF-β)-induced repression of SMAD family member 7 (SMAD7), and inhibited cell invasion. Collectively, these studies demonstrate the potential of targeted RNA degradation as therapeutic agents that retard the development of organ fibrosis.
ObjectiveReperfusion therapy is essential for preserving cardiac tissue in patients with acute myocardial infarction. However, ischemia-reperfusion exacerbates cardiac damage. Vascular endothelial cell-derived small extracellular vesicles play a pivotal role in ischemia-reperfusion injury; although the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. Therefore, this study aimed to elucidate the mechanisms of vascular endothelial cell-derived small extracellular vesicles and investigate their potential therapeutic roles.MethodsSmall extracellular vesicles derived from vascular endothelial cells were isolated using ultracentrifugation, and their characteristics were confirmed using transmission electron microscopy, nanoparticle tracking analysis, and western blotting. Their effects on myocardial injury was evaluated in vivo using a mouse myocardial ischemia-reperfusion model, and their role was further examined in vitro using a cellular hypoxia/reoxygenation model. The key micro ribonucleic acid in small extracellular vesicles was screened via high-throughput sequencing, and its regulatory effect on cardiomyocyte apoptosis was verified in vitro through intervention experiments. The key gene was predicted using miRanda and TargetScan, and the related interaction was verified by a dual-luciferase reporter assay and ribonucleic acid immunoprecipitation.ResultsOur in vivo study revealed that small extracellular vesicles significantly attenuated ischemia-reperfusion-induced cardiomyocyte apoptosis and improved cardiac function. We also analyzed micro ribonucleic acid expression in small extracellular vesicles and found that miR410-3p was highly expressed and associated with cellular apoptosis. In vitro experiments demonstrated that small extracellular vesicles increased miR410-3p expression in cardiomyocytes and that miR410-3p effectively inhibited cardiomyocyte apoptosis in a cellular ischemia-reperfusion model. Conversely, miR410-3p inhibition attenuated the protective effect of small extracellular vesicles. Moreover, we found that SMAD family member 7 is one of the target messenger ribonucleic acids of miR410-3p and affects cellular apoptosis by modulating nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells. Cellular experiments verified that the antiapoptotic effect of miR410-3p was neutralized by SMAD family member 7 overexpression.ConclusionsThese results revealed that vascular endothelial cell-derived small extracellular vesicles attenuate ischemia-reperfusion-induced cardiomyocyte apoptosis via the miR410-3p/SMAD family member 7 axis. This study provides valuable insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying ischemia-reperfusion-induced myocardial damage and highlights potential therapeutic opportunities for mitigating it.
The generation of hepatocyte-like cells (HLCs) from human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) holds great promise for drug discovery and cell-based therapy for liver disease. However, current differentiation protocols are complicated and unstable, and the underlying gene regulatory mechanisms of hepatic differentiation remain incompletely defined. Here, we developed a machine learning-based artificial intelligence (AI) tool using phase-contrast images of hepatic progenitor cells (HPCs), which are essential for generating HLCs. The AI tool significantly improves the success rate of hepatic differentiation without the need for immunostaining or lineage tracing. By optimizing the methodology, we achieved an impressive purity of 90 to 95% for HLCs derived from hPSCs, aided by the AI algorithm. Through further investigating transcriptomes and epigenomic changes, we discovered the pivotal roles of nuclear receptor subfamily 5 group A member 2 and activator protein-1 transcription factors in regulating the maturation of hepatocytes. Single-cell RNA sequencing demonstrated the upregulation of nuclear receptor subfamily 5 group A member 2 and activator protein-1 during hepatic differentiation. Importantly, mutation analysis and tumorigenesis assays confirmed the safety of this modified hepatic differentiation protocol. This work highlights the potential of combining AI algorithm and computational genomics to facilitate development of lineage differentiation and molecular mechanism study.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Red meat and/or processed meat are established colorectal cancer risk factors. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have reported more than 200 variants associated with colorectal cancer risk. We used functional annotation data to identify subsets of variants within known pathways to construct pathway-based polygenic risk scores (pPRS) to assess interactions with meat intake.A pooled sample of 30,812 cases and 40,504 colorectal cancer controls from 27 studies was analyzed. Quantiles for red and processed meat intake were constructed. A total of 204 GWAS variants were annotated to genes with Annotation Query (AnnoQ) and assessed for overrepresentation in PANTHER-reported pathways. pPRSs were constructed from significantly overrepresented pathways. Covariate-adjusted logistic regression models evaluated interactions between pPRS and red or processed meat intake in relation to colorectal cancer risk.A total of 30 variants were overrepresented in four pathways: presenilin/Alzheimer disease, cadherin/WNT signaling, gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor, and transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) signaling. We found a significant interaction between TGF-β pPRS and red meat intake [ORint = 0.95; 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.92-0.98; P = 0.003). When variants in the TGF-β pathway were assessed, we observed significant interactions of red meat with rs2337113 [intron SMAD family member 7 (SMAD7) gene, Chr18] and rs2208603 [intergenic region bone morphogenetic protein 5 (BMP5), Chr6; P = 0.0005 and 0.036, respectively]. There was no evidence of pPRS × red meat interactions for other pathways or with processed meat.This pathway-based interaction analysis revealed a statistically significant interaction between variants in the TGF-β pathway and red meat consumption that influences colorectal cancer risk.These findings shed light on the possible mechanistic link between red meat consumption and colorectal cancer risk.©2026 American Association for Cancer Research.
BACKGROUND: Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common, aggressive and poor prognosis malignant brain tumor in adults, that is still orphan of effective medical treatments. The formyl peptide receptor 2 (FPR2), a G protein– coupled receptor implicated in inflammation and cancer biology, has emerged as a potential therapeutic target, yet its role in GBM remains poorly defined. METHODS: We investigated the effects of MR-39, a novel selective FPR2 agonist, in three human GBM cell lines (U87MG, U138-MG, U251-MG). Antiproliferative effects were assessed via CCK-8 assays, cell counts, Ki67 immunostaining, and cell cycle analysis. The specificity of MR-39 was tested using the FPR2 antagonist WRW4 and siRNA-mediated knockdown. Whole-transcriptome analysis, RT-qPCR, Western Blot, woundhealing assays, in vitro tube formation assay, and hypoxia models were used to explore its impact on invasion, angiogenesis, and hypoxia-driven pathways. RESULTS: MR-39 significantly reduced proliferation in all GBM cell lines and induced a non-canonical, p53dependent S-phase arrest associated with the inhibition of both MAPK/ERK and AKT pathways. These effects were reversed by the FPR2 antagonist WRW4 or by FPR2 silencing. Transcriptomic and functional assays revealed downregulation of epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) drivers, including Neuralcadherin (N-cadherin), Snail Family Transcriptional Repressor 2 (Slug), Snail Family Transcriptional Repressor 1 (Snail), matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP2), fibronectin 1 (FN1), and increased Epithelialcadherin (E-cadherin) expression, resulting in impaired migration. MR-39 displays anti-angiogenic and anti-hypoxia related activities, indeed it is able to inhibit Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) and Vascular Endothelial-cadherin (VE-cadherin) expression, to disrupt endothelial network formation, and to attenuate Hypoxia Inducible Factor 1 Subunit Alpha (HIF-1α) stabilization under hypoxic conditions. Notably, MR-39 exhibited significant anti-inflammatory effects, as evidenced by the downregulation of pro-inflammatory genes, including Cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2), Chemokine (C-X-C Motif) Ligand 7. (CXCL-7), Nuclear Factor Kappa B Subunit 1 (NFKB1), Interleukin 1 Beta (IL-1β), and Interleukin 6 (IL6), and the inhibition of NF-κB protein levels. CONCLUSION: This study identifies MR-39 as a potent modulator of FPR2, and identifies its mechanisms of action in GBM, such as anti-tumor activity, including S-phase arrest, inhibition of EMT, and suppression of both angiogenesis and hypoxic adaptation. By directing FPR2 signaling toward an anti-tumor profile, MR-39 represents a promising therapeutic candidate for GBM.
Pediatric B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) is molecularly heterogeneous and influenced by the bone marrow microenvironment. Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) provide critical niche signals, yet their transcriptomic remodeling in B-ALL is poorly defined. This study aims to define a compact gene signature that complements blast-centric diagnostics.We analyzed GSE101425 (GPL570) MSC microarrays (rather than leukemic blasts) from pediatric B-ALL at diagnosis (day 0, n=35), remission (n=29), relapse (n=6), and healthy donors (n=16). Differential expression (day 0 vs. healthy), Random Forest feature ranking, consensus clustering, and Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) analyses were performed. Within-cohort discrimination used 5-fold cross-validated logistic regression with bootstrapped area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) confidence intervals (CIs) (CCN4 mapped to WISP1 on GPL570). Public single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data provided cellular context. Peripheral blood real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) served as an exploratory assessment of systemic expression, not MSC validation.We identified 78 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in B-ALL-associated MSCs. A four-gene MSC signature [Dickkopf WNT Signaling Pathway Inhibitor 1 (DKK1), Regulator of G Protein Signaling 2 (RGS2), Cellular Communication Network Factor 4/WNT1-Inducible Signaling Pathway Protein 1 (CCN4/WISP1), Lysozyme (LYZ)] distinguished active B-ALL MSCs from healthy MSCs with cross-validated AUC 0.883 (95% CI: 0.783-0.966) and separated samples into two transcriptional states with distinct pathway enrichment, including extracellular matrix and immune-related programs. Single-cell data localized RGS2 and LYZ to immune compartments, whereas DKK1 and CCN4/WISP1 were low, supporting stromal specificity. Peripheral blood RT-qPCR showed decreased RGS2 and LYZ, whereas CCN4 showed a nonsignificant upward trend (P=0.053), underscoring compartment-dependent patterns.These data delineate transcriptional remodeling of bone marrow MSCs in pediatric B-ALL and nominate a four-gene MSC-associated signature. By centering on stromal MSC transcriptomes rather than leukemic blasts, we target a complementary microenvironmental layer of B-ALL biology that is underrepresented in blast-centric transcriptomics. The findings are hypothesis-generating and require independent MSC cohorts and functional validation.© AME Publishing Company.
Despite current multimodal therapies for glioblastoma (GBM), its prognosis remains grim. Thus, a tremendous need exists to identify new genetic drivers that may serve as potential therapeutic targets in glioblastoma (GBM). We describe an in vivo overexpression screening strategy to identify drivers of glioblastoma where we have leveraged TCGA datasets to conduct a functional genomics screen of prioritized open reading frames (ORFs) that are overexpressed and/or amplified in GBM. To interrogate these potential drivers within a more relevant physiological context, the screening was accomplished in vivo in an orthotopic patient-derived glioma stem-like cell (GSC) model. Among 5 positive "hits" from the screen, Cellular Communication Network factor 4 (CCN4) was prioritized for further evaluation. Our functional analyses demonstrated that CCN4 overexpression drives tumor growth in multiple GBM models. Depletion of CCN4 reduced growth in vitro and in vivo and markedly decreased colony formation with the growth phenotype restored upon ectopic expression of CCN4. Structural functional analysis of CCN4 was also conducted. We believe that this screening strategy can serve as a platform for further identification and validation of drivers of GBM.
Previous studies have reported abnormal expression of WNT1-inducible signaling pathway protein 1 (WISP1)/Cellular Communication Network Factor 4 (CCN4) in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). However, its specific significance remains unclear. To date, no in-depth research has been conducted to explore the role and importance of WISP1 in ESCC.In this study, we downloaded the expression data of WISP1 (CCN4), Single-Cell RNA Sequencing (scRNA) data, and clinical information from public databases. A combination of bioinformatics analyses and experimental approaches was employed to comprehensively investigate the correlation between WISP1 expression and clinical prognosis, tumor microenvironment (TME), drug resistance, and response to immunotherapy. Additionally, the role of WISP1 in cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) and its underlying mechanisms were explored.Our findings revealed that WISP1 exhibited differential expression in most analyzed cancers. In ESCC, WISP1 was upregulated and associated with TME characteristics, immune suppression, and drug resistance. Further analysis indicated that ESCC patients with higher WISP1 expression had relatively poorer prognoses. Moreover, it was confirmed that WISP1 is predominantly highly expressed in CAFs. Knockdown of WISP1 in CAFs significantly inhibited their proliferation, migration, and invasion capabilities, as well as markedly reduced the expression of extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins collagen type I alpha 1 chain (COL1A1) and matrix metallopeptidase 14 (MMP14). Notably, co-culture experiments of CAFs with knocked-down WISP1 and ESCC cancer cells demonstrated that the migration and invasion abilities of ESCC cancer cells were also significantly impaired.In summary, WISP1 is intricately involved in the pathogenesis of ESCC, exhibiting multifaceted roles. WISP1 can modulate the activities of CAFs and cancer cells in ESCC, as well as the process of ECM remodeling, thereby influencing the pathological progression of this malignancy. Based on the aforementioned research findings, WISP1 holds promise as a prognostic molecular marker and a potential therapeutic target for ESCC.Copyright © 2025 Yi, Zhang, Tao, Liu, Li, Li and Zhang.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is the most common interstitial lung disease with unknown etiology, characterized by chronic inflammation and tissue scarring. Although, Pirfenidone and Nintedanib slow the disease progression, no currently available drugs or therapeutic interventions address the underlying cause, highlighting the unmet medical need. A matricellular protein, Wnt-1-induced secreted protein 1 (WISP1), also referred to as CCN4 (cellular communication network factor 4), is a secreted multi-modular protein implicated in multi-organ fibrosis. Although the precise mechanism of WISP1-mediated fibrosis remains unclear, emerging evidence indicates that WISP1 is profibrotic in nature. While WISP1-targeting therapy is applied in the clinic for fibrosis, detailed interrogation of WISP1-mediated fibrogenic molecular and biological pathways is lacking. Here, for the first time, using NanoString® technology, we identified a novel WISP1-associated profibrotic gene signature and molecular pathways potentially involved in the initiation and progression of fibrosis in primary human dermal and lung fibroblasts from both healthy individuals and IPF patients. Our data demonstrate that WISP1 is upregulated in IPF-lung fibroblasts as compared to healthy control. Furthermore, our results confirm that WISP1 is downstream of the transforming growth factor-β (TGFβ), and it induces fibroblast cell proliferation. Additionally, WISP1 induced IL6 and CCL2 in fibroblasts. We also developed a novel, combined TGFβ and WISP1 in vitro system to demonstrate a role for WISP1 in the progression of fibrosis. Overall, our findings uncover not only similarities but also striking differences in the molecular profile of WISP1 in human fibroblasts, both during the initiation and progression phases, as well as in disease-specific context.
To investigate the proliferation regulatory effect of cone-rod homeobox (CRX) in retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) and retinoblastoma (RB) cells to explore the potential application and side effect (oncogenic potential) of CRX-based gene therapy in RPE-based retinopathies.Adult human retinal pigment epithelial (ARPE)-19 and human retinal pigment epithelial (RPE)-1 cells and Y79 RB cell were used in the study. Genetic manipulation was performed by lentivirus-based technology. The cell proliferation was determined by a CellTiter-Glo Reagent. The mRNA and protein levels were determined by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) and Western blot assay. The transcriptional activity of the promoter was determined by luciferase reporter gene assay. The bindings between CRX and transcription factor 7 (TCF7) promoter as well as TCF7 and the promoters of TCF7 target genes were examined by chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay. The transcription of the TCF7 was determined by a modified nuclear run-on assay.CRX overexpression and knockdown significantly increased (n=3, P<0.05 in all the cells) and decreased (n=3, P<0.01 in all the cells) the proliferation of RPE and RB cells. CRX overexpression and knockdown significantly increased and deceased the mRNA levels of Wnt signaling target genes [including MYC proto-oncogene (MYC), JUN, FOS like 1 (FOSL1), CCND1, cyclin D2 (CCND2), cyclin D3 (CCND3), cellular communication network factor 4 (CCN4), peroxisome proliferator activated receptor delta (PPARD), and matrix metallopeptidase 7 (MMP7)] and the luciferase activity driven by the Wnt signaling transcription factor (TCF7). TCF7 overexpression and knockdown significantly increased and decreased the proliferation of RPE and RB cells and depletion of TCF7 significantly abolished the stimulatory effect of CRX on the proliferation of RPE and RB cells. CRX overexpression and knockdown significantly increased and decreased the mRNA level of TCF7 and the promoter of TCF7 was significantly immunoprecipitated by CRX antibody.CRX transcriptionally activates TCF7 to promote the proliferation of RPE and RB cells in vitro. CRX is a potential target for RPE-based regenerative medicine. The potential risk of this strategy, tumorigenic potential, should be considered.International Journal of Ophthalmology Press.
Skipped: PubMed ID 38937782 is a review article
Enrichment of Veillonella parvula in the lung microbiota is strongly associated with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and induces the progression of lung adenocarcinoma in vivo, but its actual role and mechanism remain unexplored. This study analyzed the correlation between NSCLC and V. parvula abundance based on 16 s rRNA sequencing results. The effects of V. parvula on the progression of lung adenocarcinoma were observed in vivo and in vitro using a C57 bl/6j mouse tumor-bearing model, a bacterial cell co-culture model, combined with transcriptome sequencing, and a TCGA database to explore and validate the growth promotion of lung adenocarcinoma by V. parvula and its molecular mechanism. 16 s rRNA sequencing revealed that V. parvula was significantly enriched in lung adenocarcinoma. In vivo, V. parvula promoted the growth of lung adenocarcinoma in mice by suppressing the infiltration of tumor-associated T lymphocytes and peripheral T lymphocytes. It showed a higher affinity for lung adenocarcinoma in vitro and promoted lung adenocarcinoma cell proliferation through adhesion or intracellular invasion. Further analysis of differential gene expression and KEGG enrichment by transcriptome sequencing revealed that V. parvula induced CCN4 expression and activated NOD-like receptor and NF-κB signaling pathway in lung adenocarcinoma cells. Further analysis clarified that V. parvula promoted activation of the NF-κB pathway via Nod2/CCN4 signaling, which promoted lung adenocarcinoma cell proliferation. Thus, V. parvula mediates activation of the Nod2/CCN4/NF-κB signaling pathway to promote non-small cell lung adenocarcinoma progression, thereby providing a potential target for diagnosing and treating lung adenocarcinoma.© 2023. The Author(s).
Previously, we have shown the involvement of cellular communication network factor 4/Wnt-activated protein Wnt-1-induced signaling protein 1 (CCN4/WISP1) in osteoarthritic (OA) cartilage and its detrimental effects on cartilage. Here, we investigated characteristics of CCN4 in chondrocyte biology by exploring correlations of CCN4 with genes expressed in human OA cartilage with functional follow-up.Spearman correlation analysis was performed for genes correlating with CCN4 using our previously established RNA sequencing dataset of human preserved OA cartilage of the RAAK study, followed by a pathway enrichment analysis for genes with ρ ≥|0.6.| Chondrocyte migration in the absence or presence of CCN4 was determined in a scratch assay, measuring scratch size using a live cell imager for up to 36 h. Changes in expression levels of 12 genes, correlating with CCN4 and involved in migratory processes, were determined with reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR).Correlation of CCN4 with ρ ≥|0.6| was found for 58 genes in preserved human OA cartilage. Pathway analysis revealed "neural crest cell migration" as most significant enriched pathway, containing among others CORO1C, SEMA3C, and SMO. Addition of CCN4 to primary chondrocytes significantly enhance chondrocyte migration as demonstrated by reduced scratch size over the course of 36 h, but at the timepoints measured no effect was observed on mRNA expression of the 12 genes.CCN4 increases cell migration of human primary OA chondrocytes. Since WISP1 expression is known to be increased in OA cartilage, this may serve to direct chondrocytes toward cartilage defects and orchestrate repair.
The crosstalk between immune or alveolar epithelial cells and fibroblasts mediated by paracrine signaling molecules is associated with the pathogenesis of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). However, studies investigating the active involvement of soluble mediators derived from bronchial epithelial cells in fibroblast activation and the development of pulmonary fibrosis are limited. Reanalysis of bulk and single-cell RNA-sequencing data from human bronchus and IPF lung tissue revealed marked upregulation of parathyroid hormone-like hormone (PTHLH) in IPF lung tissue compared with normal tissue, with expression predominantly localized to bronchial epithelial cells. parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP) translated from PTHLH was significantly increased in the bronchial epithelium of IPF patients and bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis mice. Furthermore, the paracrine peptide PTHrP1-34, generated through post-translational processing of PTHrP, was elevated in lung homogenates and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid obtained from fibrotic lungs. Cell- and animal-based experiments showed that PTHrP1-34 activated fibroblasts and extracellular matrix production, resulting in the progression of pulmonary fibrosis. In a preclinical evaluation using a bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis mouse model, attenuating effects against pulmonary fibrosis were observed using neutralizing antibodies, peptides, and gene silencing strategies targeting the PTHrP1-34/parathyroid hormone 1 receptor axis. In conclusion, our results suggest that PTHrP1-34 derived from bronchial epithelial cells is involved in the pathogenesis of IPF and is a promising target for alleviating disease progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
To identify pyroptosis, apoptosis, and necroptosis (PANoptosis)-related genes (PRGs) in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) for patient stratification and prognosis prediction.We used differential expression analysis and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) to identify ccRCC-specific PRGs. A prognostic model, the PANoptosis-index (PANI), was constructed using least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) and Cox regression. The PANI model, comprising PRGs, was validated through single-cell RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq), immunohistochemistry, and reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). Patient cohorts were categorized into high- and low-PANI groups, and the model's performance was appraised using various metrics. External validation was performed with the E-MTAB-1980 dataset. Functional and gene set enrichment analyses distinguished biological differences between groups. Mutational landscapes and tumor immune microenvironments were compared. Sensitivity to immunotherapy and antineoplastic drugs was also predicted using PANI. The effects of Z-DNA-binding protein 1 (ZBP1) on cell proliferation and migration were assessed by cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) and Transwell assays.We identified five PRGs (ZBP1, tumor necrosis factor superfamily protein 14 (TNFSF14), cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 3 (CDKN3), parathyroid hormone-like hormone (PTHLH),and heme-oxygenase 1 (HMOX1)) constituting PANI, independently associated with ccRCC patient prognosis. The PANI-based nomogram, integrated with clinical factors, demonstrated high predictive accuracy for prognosis. High-PANI patients exhibited distinct co-mutation patterns in ccRCC driver genes and lower survival probabilities, with an enriched immune-related functional profile, indicating an activated immune environment. These patients also showed increased sensitivity to immunotherapy and antineoplastic drugs. The knockdown of ZBP1, a key PRG in the PANI, significantly reduced ccRCC cell proliferation and migration.PANI provides precise prognosis and immunotherapy response predictions for ccRCC patients, facilitating individualized treatment strategies.
To investigate the expression of parathyroid hormone-like hormone (PTHLH) in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and analyze its correlation with clinical prognosis, its regulatory effects on HCC cell behaviors, and the signaling pathways mediating its effects.We analyzed the differential expression of PTHLH in HCC and adjacent tissues and its association with patient prognosis based on data from TCGA and GEO databases and from 70 HCC patients treated in our hospital. The effects of PTHLH knockdown and overexpression on proliferation, migration, and invasion of cultured HCC cells were investigated using CCK-8 assay, colony formation assay, Transwell migration and invasion assays, and the signaling pathways activated by PTHLH were detected using Western blotting.TCGA and GEO database analysis showed significant overexpression of PTHLH mRNA in HCC tissues, which was associated with poor prognosis of the patients (P<0.05). High PTHLH mRNA expression was a probable independent prognostic risk factor for HCC (P<0.05). In the clinical samples, PTHLH mRNA and protein expressions were significantly higher in HCC tissues than in the adjacent tissues (P<0.001 or 0.01). Univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses suggested that high PTHLH mRNA expression was an independent risk factor to affect postoperative disease-free survival of HCC patients (P<0.05). The prognostic prediction model based on PTHLH mRNA expression showed an improved accuracy for predicting the risk of postoperative recurrence in HCC patients. In cultured HCC cells, PTHLH overexpression significantly promoted cell proliferation, colony formation, migration and invasion, and caused activation of the ERK/JNK signaling pathway in Huh7 and Hep3B cells.High PTHLH expression promotes HCC progression and is associated with poor patient prognosis. Its pro-tumor effects may be mediated by activation of the ERK/JNK signaling pathway.
The caudal neurosecretory system (CNSS) is a neuroendocrine complex unique to fish, first described in 1955. Since then, it has been hypothesized to contribute to several physiological processes, but its real functions remain largely unclear. However, so far, the many studies devoted to it agree that it could play an important role in osmoregulation. More recently, it has also been suggested that it could be involved in thermal adaptation. The zebrafish (Danio rerio) is a well-established model organism for functional studies. Yet so far, the functions of the CNSS have not been thoroughly investigated in this species. As a first step in such investigations, the present study aimed to identify environmental factors whose variations induce changes in CNSS endocrine activity. For this purpose, juvenile zebrafish were submitted to acute (2, 8, and 24 h) pH, salinity, and temperature challenges. As indicators of the CNSS endocrine activity, the expression levels of peptide hormone-encoding genes known or suspected to be synthesized in the CNSS were measured using quantitative PCR. The genes selected for this study were as follows: corticotropin-releasing hormone b (crhb), oxytocin (oxt), proenkephalin (penka and penkb), parathyroid hormone-like hormone (pthlha and pthlhb), stanniocalcin 2 (stc2a and stc2b), urotensin 1 (uts1) and urotensin 2 (uts2a and uts2b). Our findings revealed that the pH challenge affected the expression of three genes - crhb, penka, and stc2b - and the salinity challenge altered four genes - oxt, uts1, uts2a, and uts2b - while the temperature challenge modified the expression of all genes of our panel. These results indicated that the zebrafish CNSS is sensitive to changes in these environmental parameters and support the use of the zebrafish as a relevant model for studying the functions of the CNSS.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Longitudinal skeletal growth takes place in the cartilaginous growth plates. While growth plates are found at either end of conventional long bones, they occur at a variety of locations in the mammalian skeleton. For example, the metacarpals and metatarsals (MT) in the hands and feet form only a single growth plate at one end, and the pisiform in the wrist is the only carpal bone to contain a growth plate. We take advantage of this natural anatomical variation to test which components of the PTHrP/Ihh feedback loop, a fundamental regulator of chondrocyte differentiation, are specific to growth plate function.Parathyroid hormone-like hormone (Pthlh), the gene that transcribes parathyroid hormone-related peptide (PTHrP), is expressed in the reserve zone of the growth plate-forming end of the MT. At the opposite end, the absence of a PTHrP+ reserve zone results in premature chondrocyte differentiation and Indian hedgehog (Ihh) expression. Pthlh is expressed in the reserve zone of the developing pisiform, confirming the existence of a true growth plate.A pool of PTHrP+ reserve zone chondrocytes is a defining characteristic of growth plates, and its patterning may be key to evolved differences in growth plate location in the mammalian skeleton.© 2025 The Author(s). Developmental Dynamics published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Association for Anatomy.
Skipped: PubMed ID 39821018 is a review article
The transition to lactation demands a substantial amount of calcium (Ca) to support colostrum and milk production. Extensive research has been focused on elucidating the interplay between the traditional Ca-parathyroid hormone-vitamin D axis and mammary-derived factors, such as serotonin (5-HT) and parathyroid-hormone-like hormone (PTHLH), in regulating Ca metabolism during the transition period. Here, we investigate the impact of induced subclinical hypocalcemia (SCH) on 5-HT and parathyroid hormone (PTH) concentrations in early-lactation dairy cows under conditions of 24-h milk stasis. Twelve multiparous Holstein cows in early lactation received either continuous intravenous infusion of saline solution or 5% ethylene glycol tetraacetic acid (EGTA) to maintain blood ionized calcium (iCa) below 1 mM (n = 6/treatment). Blood samples were collected hourly during infusion and 4, 8, 12, 24, and 48 h post-infusion. Urine samples were collected every 4 h during infusion and at 12, 24, and 48 h post-infusion, and milk samples were collected daily from 2 d pre-infusion to 4 d post-infusion. Infusion of EGTA resulted in decreased blood iCa during the infusion period, with iCa concentrations rebounding 24 h post-infusion. No significant treatment effects were observed on 5-HT and PTH blood concentrations. These findings underscore the importance of considering physiological distinctions in studies of Ca metabolism during the transition period.© 2024.
Skipped: PubMed ID 39337587 is a review article
Nuclear protein in testis (NUT) carcinoma (NC) of the lung is a rare cancer that occurs mainly in young adolescents and adults. NC is genetically characterized by NUTM1 rearrangements, which usually take the form of BRD4-NUT fusions. The prognosis for NC is dismal, and treatment with conventional chemotherapeutic regimens is ineffective.We herein describe the case of a 53-year-old woman with recurrent NC of the lung 14 years after surgery for nasal cavity cancer. Chest computed tomography revealed a 5.5-cm tumor in the lower lobe of the left lung. We completely resected the recurrent lung NC via thoracotomy. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) of the lung and nasal cavity cancers showed diffuse strong expression of NUT. RNA-seq of the lung NC revealed NUTM1 rearrangement, with a fusion of BRD4 exon 10 to NUTM1 exon 4. This breakpoint has never been reported before. In addition, IHC revealed elevated expression of parathyroid hormone-like hormone in the lung NC but not in the nasal cavity NC, indicating that the lung and nasal cavity NCs were metachronous multiple primary cancers.We experienced a rare recurrence of lung NC 14 years after the initial surgery. The BRD4-NUT fusion consisted of a new breakpoint. Furthermore, the expression pattern of parathyroid hormone-like hormone (PTHLH) suggested that the NCs in the nasal cavity and lung may be metachronous multiple lung cancers. This extremely rare case highlighted the possibility of identifying less malignant NCs in patients with poorly differentiated tumors via fusion gene analysis and the need to develop more effective treatment strategies for this malignancy.2024 Translational Lung Cancer Research. All rights reserved.
Asthma ranks among the most prevalent non-communicable diseases worldwide. Previous studies have elucidated the significant role of the immune system in its pathophysiology. Nevertheless, the immune-related mechanisms underlying asthma are complex and still inadequately understood. Thus, our objective was to investigate novel key biomarkers and immune infiltration characteristics associated with asthma by employing integrated bioinformatics tools.In this study, we conducted a weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) to identify key modules and genes potentially implicated in asthma. Functional annotation of these key modules and genes was carried out through gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis. Additionally, we constructed a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network using the STRING database to identify 10 hub genes. Furthermore, we evaluated the relative proportion of immune cells in bronchial epithelial cell samples from 20 healthy individuals and 88 asthmatic patients using CIBERSORT. Finally, we validated the hub genes and explored their correlation with immune infiltration.Furthermore, 20 gene expression modules and 10 hub genes were identified herein. Among them, complement component 3 (C3), prostaglandin I2 receptor (PTGIR), parathyroid hormone-like hormone (PTHLH), and C-X3-C motif chemokine ligand 1 (CX3CL1) were closely correlated with the infiltration of immune cells. They may be novel candidate biomarkers or therapeutic targets for asthma. Furthermore, B cells memory, and plasma cells might play an important role in immune cell infiltration after asthma.C3, PTGIR, CX3CL1, and PTHLH have important clinical diagnostic values and are correlated with infiltration of multiple immune cell types in asthma. These hub genes, B cells memory, and plasma cells may become important biological targets for therapeutic asthma drug screening and drug design.Copyright © 2024 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Alkaloid N-demethylation is a critical step in the production of many semi-synthetic alkaloid therapeutics and has traditionally relied on synthetic chemical routes. Microbial whole-cell bioproduction offers a promising alternate route for generating these valuable pharmaceuticals. This work demonstrated a greener N-demethylation platform applicable to morphinan and tropine alkaloid classes, employing an engineered yeast expressing a cytochrome P450 enzyme with N-demethylase activity, a cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase and purine permeases as transporters. This platform enabled the N-demethylation of the morphinan alkaloids, oripavine and thebaine with high activity, and the tropane alkaloids, atropine and scopolamine with moderate activity. The study systematically evaluated the contributions of substrate uptake and enzymatic conversion within the whole-cell system. Heterologous transporters enabled mass transfer across the cell membrane, with no significant difference detected for the four substrates, while in vitro enzyme catalysis differed between substrates and correlated with yield. Computational molecular docking, combined with deep learning-based protein structure prediction, found all four substrates had high affinity for the enzyme. This approach was also used to identify potential target substrates for future biotransformation. Process performance could be further improved with the use of larger scale, well controlled bioreactors.© 2026. The Author(s).
The cytochrome P450 redox system is composed of a cytochrome P450 reductase (POR) and multiple CYP450 enzymes (CYP450). Of the CYP450 isoenzymes, CYP51A1 is essential for endogenous cholesterol biosynthesis. Elevated circulating cholesterol is a well-established risk factor for cardiovascular disease, however, the role of intracellular cholesterol synthesis in normal endothelial function remains unclear. To investigate this, we generated CRISPR/Cas9 knockouts of the cytochrome P450 reductase in primary human endothelial cells (EC) and studied an endothelial-specific, tamoxifen-inducible POR knockout mouse (ecPOR-/-). Deletion of POR led to the accumulation of lanosterol, the substrate of POR/CYP51A1, and a reduction in desmosterol. Functionally, POR deficiency promoted basal and VEGF-induced angiogenesis in spheroids and mouse aortic segments. Retinal angiogenesis was increased in ecPOR-/- mice in vivo. Mechanistically, POR deletion activated the Sterol Regulatory Element Binding Transcription Factor (SREBP2) regulatory pathway, as shown by increased nuclear translocation of cleaved SREBP2 in EC and in en face-stained mouse aortae. Overexpression of nuclear SREBP2 in endothelial cells mimicked the angiogenic phenotype observed upon POR deletion. Conversely, double deletion of POR and SREBP2 normalized angiogenesis to levels of control cells. RNAseq of POR-deficient EC revealed an upregulation of PI3K-related signaling pathways and genes involved in cholesterol homeostasis, including enhanced expression of pro-angiogenic factors. In line with these findings, knockout of POR increased cellular PIP3 levels, AKT phosphorylation, and activation of downstream targets such as p70 S6 kinase. These findings demonstrate that inhibition of the endothelial POR/CYP51A1 axis impairs endogenous cholesterol synthesis, activates SREBP2, and enhances angiogenesis via PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling, highlighting a critical and novel link between intracellular cholesterol metabolism and vascular growth.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Few liver microsomal cytochromes P450 (P450s), especially human P450s, are recombinantly expressed in bacteria as full-length proteins. Lack of the N-terminal membrane anchor hinders studies of the interactions of microsomal P450s with redox partners. Herein, we describe the successful expression of full-length human CYP2E1, referred to as hCYP2E1FLAL, in bacteria to give a yield of ∼704 nmol/L culture. This high-level expression was achieved due to the codon optimization strategy employed to reduce free energy for translation and growth temperature. The expressed hCYP2E1FLAL was purified with a single affinity column and contained no P420, the inactive form of P450. Compared with N-terminal truncated human CYP2E1 (hCYP2E1dH), hCYP2E1FLAL exhibits elevated enzyme activity toward prototypic substrates, chlorzoxazone and p-nitrophenol, with ∼2-fold increase in kcat in the absence of cytochrome-b5 (cyt b5). The elevated enzyme activity is more pronounced in the presence of cyt b5, with a 4.3-fold increase for chlorzoxazone and a 2.5-fold increase for p-nitrophenol. Moreover, hCYP2E1FLAL binds NADPH-cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase (POR) more tightly with an apparent KM of 0.36 ± 0.026 μM, compared to 1.2 ± 0.13 μM for truncated hCYP2E1dH. Interestingly, the presence of cyt b5 further decreased the KM of POR to 0.13 ± 0.014 μM for hCYP2E1FLAL as opposed to 0.40 ± 0.041 μM for hCYP2E1dH, suggesting that cyt b5 promotes the interactions of CYP2E1 with POR. Taken together, these results suggest that the N-terminal transmembrane anchor enhances hCYP2E1-catalyzed reactions, likely by favorable interactions with POR and cyt b5 to form active complexes with redox partners, and that the full-length enzyme is the appropriate form for further redox partner interaction studies in membrane systems. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: In vitro drug metabolism by CYP2E1 is often inferred from rodent CYP2E1 or truncated human CYP2E1 due to the lack of recombinant full-length human CYP2E1. This study developed a high-level bacterial expression of full-length human CYP2E1. Comparative studies of full-length and truncated human CYP2E1 in hydroxylation of chlorzoxazone and p-nitrophenol reveal that the N-terminal anchor of human CYP2E1 is critical for promoting interactions with NADPH-cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase and cytochrome-b5 and, hence, enzyme activity.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
CYP2A6 is the principal human enzyme metabolizing coumarin and nicotine; it demonstrates wide variation from genetics and environmental regulation, complicating the determination of human developmental profile and sex-related differences. African green monkeys (AGMs), with comparable CYP2A6 activity to humans, of both sexes across 5 developmental stages (N = 56) were used to investigate age and sex effects on CYP2A6 activity using 7-hydroxycoumarin formation from coumarin, and cotinine formation from nicotine. Age and sex differences were determined using two-way ANOVAs and post hoc tests. Age impacted microsomal protein per gram liver (determined by cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase activity). Age and sex differences, with interactions, were observed in liver and body weight, whereby older AGMs and males were heavier for both. Pooled microsomes per age-sex group were used to determine the kinetic parameters for 7-hydroxycoumarin (overall Km = 1.5 ± 0.3 μM, Vmax = 0.34 ± 0.06 nmol/min/mg) and cotinine (overall Km = 37.4 ± 8.0 μM, Vmax = 1.36 ± 0.23 nmol/min/mg) formation. Age impacted the velocity of 7-hydroxycoumarin and cotinine formation (individual AGMs assessed at substrate concentrations at ∼Km and ∼10 × Km), at per milligram of microsomal protein, per gram liver, and per whole liver normalized by body weight, whereby juveniles and adolescents had higher velocities. Both age and sex impacted 7-hydroxycoumarin and cotinine formation per whole liver, but in contrast, older AGMs and males had higher velocities. In conclusion, age but not sex impacted CYP2A6 activity, which was higher in younger AGMs for essentially all denominators except following extrapolation to the whole liver, where activity was influenced by larger livers in adults and males. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: Microsomal CYP2A6 activity was higher in younger African green monkeys (AGMs), with no sex differences. Once extrapolated to the whole liver, representing the total rate of metabolism, the velocity was faster in older AGMs and males, primarily due to age and sex differences in liver weight. There were significant age differences in CYP2A6 activity, where younger AGMs had higher velocity per milligram-microsomal protein, gram liver, and whole liver normalized to body weight levels, while older and male AGMs had higher whole liver velocity.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase deficiency (PORD) is an ultra-rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in the POR gene and characterized by highly heterogeneous skeletal, genital, and endocrine manifestations. Owing to this complexity, PORD remains frequently underrecognized in clinical practice, and integrated clinical-genetic syntheses remain limited.A retrospective analysis was conducted on the clinical data of a PORD patient treated at Shenzhen Children's Hospital. Relevant literature was retrieved from PubMed, Web of Science, and China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI). Reported cases were analyzed with respect to sex, age, geographic distribution, clinical manifestations, and POR gene variants.The patient from our hospital, a 7-month-old infant, presented with characteristic features including frontal bossing, craniosynostosis, flat nasal bridge, proximal radioulnar synostosis, clitoromegaly, partial labial fusion, and steroid hormone abnormalities. Genetic testing identified compound heterozygous variants, p.G146fs*111, a novel mutation, and p.R457H. The patient underwent bilateral mandibular distraction osteogenesis and cranial reconstruction, which alleviated airway obstruction, swallowing difficulty, and craniosynostosis. A total of 50 eligible studies were identified, comprising 167 patients (male:female = 77:90). The major clinical findings were skeletal deformities in 124 cases (74.25%), gonadal deformities in 121 (72.46%), hormonal abnormalities or delayed puberty in 127 (76.05%), and adrenal insufficiency or crisis in 108 (64.67%). Additionally, ovarian cysts were observed in 36 female patients (40.00%). Among all patients, the allele frequency of the p.R457H variant was 27.25%, while that of the p.A287P variant was 14.97%. In the 22 Chinese patients, the allele frequency of the p.R457H variant reached 38.64%.We report the clinical features of a PORD patient carrying a novel POR mutation, p.G146fs*111. PORD typically presents with skeletal and genital malformations as well as adrenal insufficiency. Management requires multidisciplinary collaboration, including individualized steroid replacement, regular blood pressure monitoring, and surgical intervention when necessary. The p.R457H variant may represent a hotspot mutation in East Asian populations.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Zhao, Du, Huang, Liu, Fu and Xu.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42009939 is a review article
Genotyping of CYP2A6 and CYP2D6 is a cornerstone of personalized medicine; however, current dosing algorithms often assume distinct phenotypic clusters, overlooking the substantial phenotypic overlap among genotypes. This study aimed to quantify genotype-phenotype concordance and identify the mechanistic determinants of prediction discrepancies. Using 90 Chinese human liver specimens, we evaluated CYP2A6 (alleles ∗4, ∗9) and CYP2D6 (100C>T, 1661G>C, ∗2) across enzymatic activity, microsomal kinetics, and predicted in vivo hepatic clearance (CL-H) derived via a bias-corrected in vitro-in vivo extrapolation approach. The results revealed significant phenotypic overlap, leading to poor prediction accuracy when relying solely on genotyping. For CYP2A6, the concordance rates were only 50.0%-58.3% for the ∗4 allele and 0% for the ∗9 allele at the microsomal level. Similarly, for CYP2D6, the 100TT genotype exhibited low prediction accuracy (2.4%-14.3%), and the 1661CC genotype showed a 100% discrepancy. Correlation analysis demonstrated that these discrepancies were significantly driven by variations in microsomal enzyme content and cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase activity (for CYP2A6), as well as cytochrome b5 (Cytb5) content (specifically for CYP2D6). In conclusion, genotyping alone is insufficient for precise clearance prediction. Integrating physiological covariates-specifically POR activity and Cytb5 content-into in vitro-in vivo extrapolation models is essential to resolve genotype-phenotype discordance and optimize CYP2A6- and CYP2D6-mediated drug dosing. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: This study addresses a critical limitation in CYP2A6/CYP2D6 genotype-guided therapy: it quantifies their extensive phenotypic overlap (genotyping alone: 0%-58.3% reliable dosing). Its novel multilevel analysis finds cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase/Cytb5 as drivers, aiding precision dosing and genetic-only risks mitigation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase deficiency (PORD) is an exceptionally rare form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) characterized by impaired activity of multiple microsomal cytochrome P450 enzymes. In adult women, PORD frequently presents with nonspecific reproductive manifestations such as menstrual irregularities, infertility, and ovarian cysts, often mimicking polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) or premature ovarian insufficiency (POI). To date, successful pregnancies in affected women remain extremely rare.We describe two biological sisters with compound heterozygous POR variants c.1811A>G (p.Tyr604Cys) and c.1952_1966del (p.Gly651_His655del), both presenting with infertility and recurrent ovarian cysts but initially misdiagnosed as PCOS or POI. Both exhibited elevated serum progesterone and 17-hydroxyprogesterone (17-OHP) without overt androgen excess, consistent with the paradoxical hormonal signature of PORD. The elder sister underwent a progestin-primed ovarian stimulation (PPOS) protocol, while the younger received a short GnRH agonist protocol; in both cases, a freeze-all strategy was adopted due to supraphysiologic progesterone levels. Subsequent hormone replacement therapy frozen embryo transfer (HRT-FET) combined with glucocorticoid supplementation resulted in singleton live births in both patients. The younger sister developed preeclampsia requiring preterm cesarean delivery, highlighting potential obstetric risks.These cases represent the first report of two siblings with nonclassic PORD achieving live births through IVF-FET. Moreover, we identified a previously unreported POR variant, c.1952_1966del, p.Gly651_His655del, which expands the known mutational spectrum of PORD in the Chinese population. Our findings highlight the importance of early genetic testing in women with atypical infertility, recognition of the distinctive hormonal profile of PORD, and the value of glucocorticoid-supported artificial-cycle frozen embryo transfer as an effective reproductive strategy.© 2026 Tian et al.
In 21-hydroxylase deficiency (21-OHD), impaired 21-hydroxylase activity causes 17-hydroxyprogesterone (17-OHP) accumulation and androgen excess, typically manifesting as hyperandrogenism. The POR gene encodes cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase (POR), the essential electron donor for all microsomal cytochrome P450 enzymes. While POR deficiency impairs multiple steroidogenic enzymes, its phenotypic impact on 21-OHD patients remains poorly characterized.We report a male 21-OHD patient with homozygous CYP21A2 variant (c.293-13C>G) who presented atypically with absent hyperandrogenism and persistently low testosterone levels before puberty. Medication withdrawal revealed significantly elevated adrenocorticotropic hormone and 17-OHP, but only mildly elevated androstenedione (AD) and relatively low testosterone, suggesting impaired 17-OHP-to-AD conversion due to 17,20-lyase deficiency. Whole-exome sequencing (WES) identified a concurrent heterozygous pathogenic POR variant (c.1660C>T, p.Arg554Ter). The patient presented with delayed puberty during disease progression but achieved spontaneous puberty after 1.3 years of cumulative GnRH pump therapy, consistent with disease-related functional delayed puberty.This 16-year follow-up case demonstrates that heterozygous POR variants may modulate the phenotype and hormonal profile in 21-OHD. These findings highlight the importance of WES in atypical 21-OHD cases to identify potential modifiers of steroidogenic pathways.© 2026 S. Karger AG, Basel.
BACKGROUND: Chemoresistance to platinum-based agents like cisplatin is a major therapeutic challenge in advanced oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC), with 70–80% of recurrent cases developing resistance that severely compromises clinical outcomes. The mechanism of cisplatin resistance still remains unclear and requires further investigation. This study investigated ferroptosis suppression as a mechanism underlying this resistance and explored the therapeutic potential of the histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor sodium butyrate (NaB). METHODS: Cisplatin-resistant OSCC cells (CAL27/CDDP) and parental cells (CAL27) were used to assess ferroptosis levels and resistance mechanisms. The effects of NaB on reversing cisplatin resistance and inhibiting malignant behaviors (proliferation, migration, invasion) were evaluated in vitro. Mechanistic studies, including identification of key regulators and epigenetic modifications were conducted. The therapeutic effect was further validated in vivo using xenograft tumor models treated with NaB and cisplatin. RESULTS: CAL27/CDDP exhibited significant ferroptosis suppression compared to CAL27. NaB effectively reversed cisplatin resistance and inhibited malignant behaviors in both cell lines. Mechanistic exploration revealed that NaB enhanced acetylation at the promoter region of early growth response protein 1 (EGR1) through HDAC9 inhibition, elevating its transcriptional activity. EGR1 functioned as a transcription factor to upregulate cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase (POR) expression, potentiating ferroptosis execution. In vivo experiments further confirmed the therapeutic relevance of this HDAC9/EGR1/POR signaling pathway, as NaB administration significantly sensitized xenograft tumors to cisplatin treatment. CONCLUSIONS: These findings position NaB as a promising epigenetic modulator for overcoming cisplatin resistance in OSCC models, with immediate clinical implications. The identified pathway offers a redox biology-based therapeutic strategy that could be extended to other chemotherapy-resistant solid tumors, potentially revolutionizing the treatment paradigm for recurrent malignancies.
Cardiac cachexia (CC) is an indicator of advanced heart failure (AHF), with significant unintentional weight loss (UWL) and poor prognosis. Its diagnostic criteria incorporate upregulation of established inflammatory cytokines. Identification of novel biomarkers, for example, via proteomic analyses, could unearth unstudied mechanisms behind CC formation with future applications in disease therapeutics. This study, therefore, aimed to explore the presence of contemporary, novel biomarkers, and mechanistic pathways in CC using targeted proteomics.Patients with AHF or stable heart failure were recruited and the presence of CC/UWL was identified. AHF was identified using the American Heart Association "I NEED HELP" criteria, and CC was identified using the contemporary 2008 consensus definition. All patients underwent phlebotomy, with plasma proteomic analyses using Olink Target 96 Cardiovascular II panel. Median proteins concentrations were compared between the CC/UWL group and the rest of cohort, with enrichment analyses conducted to identify potential novel pathways behind disease formation. Area under the receiver operator curve analysis was conducted to determine whether significant biomarkers had potential in identifying CC/UWL.Six proteins were differentially expressed in the CC/UWL group, of which four were novel: interleukin-27 and -4, vascular endothelial growth factor D, and bone morphogenetic protein-6. All were suitable biomarkers (area under the receiver operator curve range 0.741-0.826). Protein enrichment analyses yielded significant pathways in disease formation relating to immune regulation and cytokine signalling.We identified four novel biomarkers in CC, all of which are feasible biomarkers of disease identification, with proposed pathways of potential pathogenesis. Further research should be undertaken to validate our findings to better understand the mechanistic pathways in functional studies, with onward consideration regarding whether our findings have therapeutic applications.Copyright © 2026 Australian and New Zealand Society of Cardiac and Thoracic Surgeons (ANZSCTS) and the Cardiac Society of Australia and New Zealand (CSANZ). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Oocyte development requires coordinated metabolic and signaling support from granulosa and theca cells. By performing integrated single-cell RNA sequencing and spatial transcriptomic analyses of murine and human ovaries, we discovered a functionally specialized stromal subtype essential for folliculogenesis. These stromal cells (SCs) with glutamyl aminopeptidase (ENPEP) function, designated perifollicular SCs based on their circumferential follicle localization, exhibit two hallmark features: (1) dynamic proliferation synchronized with follicular maturation from primary to secondary to antral stages, and (2) secretion of midkine (MDK), which activates nucleolin (NCL) receptor signaling to drive granulosa cell (GC) expansion. Furthermore, analyses of ovarian aging revealed the concurrent depletion of perifollicular SCs and the attenuation of MDK-NCL signaling between perifollicular SCs and GCs. The unique spatial confinement and regulatory capacity of perifollicular SCs endow them with the potential to become important components of the follicular functional unit, providing new theoretical support for understanding the molecular regulatory mechanisms of ovarian aging from the perspective of the follicular microenvironment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is among the most aggressive malignant brain tumors and is characterized by severe infiltration into surrounding brain tissue, rendering early detection exceedingly difficult with current diagnostic imaging methods. Chosen biomarkers S100A4, with a role in cell motility and tumor metastasis, and midkine (MDK), connected to tumor microenvironment remodeling and expansion, are both linked to GBM's infiltrative proliferation. This study investigates a computational framework for the structure-guided design of DNA tweezer nanostructures, evaluated for predicted interactions with S100A4 and MDK. AlphaFold 3 modeling predicted the three-dimensional structures of eight three-stranded, hinge-scaffolded DNA tweezer candidates. DNA structures and target proteins were paired together in molecular docking simulations conducted with HDOCK, from which docking analyses predicted favorable binding arrangements of the complexes identified. Among the constructs investigated, DT3_8 exhibited the most favorable predicted interaction profile across the integrated computational analyses. Comparative docking against additional S100 family proteins with similar electrostatic characteristics further suggested that the predicted interaction profile of DT3_8 may not be explained solely by nonspecific electrostatic complementarity. Collectively, these findings provide a computational proof of concept for the design of dual-target DNA tweezer nanostructures and establish a foundation for future development and experimental evaluation of DNA-based biosensing platforms for glioblastoma-associated biomarkers.© 2026 The Author. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is an immune-rich epithelial malignancy with marked malignant-cell heterogeneity and variable benefit from immune checkpoint blockade.Single-cell RNA-seq data were integrated with inferCNV, Monocle3, DoRothEA/decoupleR, donor-aware pseudobulk differential expression and CellChat ligand-receptor modeling. External validation used NPC bulk cohorts (GSE53819, GSE12452, GSE64634 and GSE102349), TCGA-HNSC, and the anti-PD-1/PD-L1-treated HNSCC cohort GSE159067. HK1 cells were used for preliminary IFITM1 knockdown assays.Among nine epithelial states, Epi7 emerged as a late-pseudotime interferon-responsive malignant epithelial state with marked IRF9, STAT2, IRF1 and STAT1 activity. IFITM1 was identified as its lead marker and was associated with CD274 at cell and donor levels. Donor-aware pseudobulk analysis confirmed that IFITM1-high cells carried a type I interferon and antiviral program, whereas Epi7 was enriched for chemokine signaling, antigen presentation and lymphocyte costimulation. CellChat analysis showed enhanced MIF, MHC-I, MHC-II, Midkine, APP and Galectin signaling from Epi7. Across external cohorts, IFITM1 was upregulated in NPC tumors, while the multigene Epi7 signature showed stronger correlations than IFITM1 alone across most checkpoint and immune-infiltration endpoints. IFITM1/Epi7-high tumors showed an inflamed but checkpoint-enriched microenvironment and higher composite ICB-likelihood. IFITM1 knockdown in HK1 cells reduced proliferation, colony formation and Matrigel-based invasion.Single-cell sequencing identified an IFITM1-marked Epi7 epithelial interferon program, in which IFITM1 serves as a lead marker rather than an exclusive determinant, linking NPC malignant-cell heterogeneity with tumor-immune communication and immunotherapy-relevant microenvironmental remodeling. The Epi7 program may provide a translational biomarker framework for immune stratification in NPC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Heparin-binding growth and differentiation factors (GDFs) play roles in various cellular processes and are potential contributors to thyroid cancer. Although population-based studies have documented associations between heparin-binding GDFs and thyroid cancer, their causal relationships remain unclear.A two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis was conducted using published genome-wide association studies (GWASs) data. The primary method for estimating causal effects was the inverse-variance weighted (IVW) approach, supplemented by multiple sensitivity analyses including weighted median, MR-Egger, and MR-PRESSO. Heterogeneity and outlier effects were systematically evaluated. Additionally, key MR findings were validated at the transcriptomic level using differential expression analysis of data from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA).The IVW method revealed significant causal relationships between midkine levels (OR = 1.2099, 95% CI: 1.013-1.445, p = 0.0355) and IGF2 (OR = 0.7496, 95% CI: 0.6056-0.9279, p = 0.0081) with thyroid cancer and between heparin-binding EGF-like growth factor and malignant thyroid neoplasms (OR = 0.8821, 95% CI: 0.7873-0.9882, p = 0.0304). Heterogeneity was identified in the association between FGF1 and malignant thyroid neoplasms (Q = 20.725, p = 0.036). Neither MR-Egger analysis nor the MR-PRESSO global test found evidence of horizontal pleiotropy in the association between heparin-binding GDFs and thyroid cancer. The robustness of these findings was supported by sensitivity analyses, and transcriptomic analysis of TCGA data further revealed that midkine (MDK was significantly upregulated in thyroid tumor tissues.Genetically predicted midkine levels and IGF2 were associated with thyroid cancer, and heparin-binding EGF-like growth factor was associated with malignant thyroid neoplasms. Future studies are needed to validate these findings.Copyright © 2026 Xiwei Zhang et al. International Journal of Endocrinology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Calmodulin-binding peptide (CBP), derived from the calmodulin recognition domain of skeletal muscle myosin light chain kinase, undergoes calcium ion-dependent structural changes. This study reports the discovery that human midkine, which is increasingly recognized as a cancer marker, interacts with CBP. Notably, this interaction occurs in the presence of sodium ions rather than calcium ions. A structural analysis employing the program AlphaFold 3 predicted the interaction of CBP with calmodulin, which consists of α-helices, in the presence of Ca2+. Conversely, surface plasmon resonance experiments revealed that in the presence of Na+ ions, CBP interacts with human midkine, which consists of β-sheets. These results suggest that CBP may function as a natural peptide aptamer, switching its target protein in the presence of different prevailing metal ions.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Neuroblastoma is characterized by frequent involvement of bone marrow (BM) as a site of cell dissemination and spread. In this study, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was used to analyze the cellular heterogeneity of a subset of metastatic BM samples collected at initial diagnosis. Comparison of the single-cell data with bulk RNA sequencing further refined the analysis. An enrichment of regulatory T cells relative to a healthy control and activation of the CD24, CD47, and CD200 "don't eat me" signals were documented. Computational analyses highlighted communication between neuroblastoma and myeloid cells via the amyloid precursor protein (APP) and midkine (MK) signaling networks. Within neuroblastoma cells, mutually exclusive adrenergic and transitory cell states were identified, and ten sub-clusters were denoted. In addition, common and unique tumor cell antigens were investigated. CNTFR and CHRNA3, as high-ranking candidates, were validated, confirming their strong selectivity for neuroblastoma cells. Taken together, these findings support the existence of a significant tumor-dependent modulation of the BM ecosystem, which should be considered when introducing immunotherapy. Furthermore, they highlight the potential to investigate new antigens at the single-cell resolution.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a fatal disease caused by dystrophin deficiency, leading to degeneration of the entire musculature. To improve muscle pathophysiology and gene therapy for DMD, we investigated the potential of growth differentiation factor 5 (GDF5) in the DMD mdx mouse model. We showed that the overexpression of GDF5 in the muscle improved its histology, reduced inflammation, modulated regeneration, and induced the appearance of de novo fibers. We demonstrated that muscle satellite cells (MuSCs) are targeted by GDF5, which enhanced their proliferation and slowed down their myogenic commitment and finally their fusion. When combined with AAV-mediated microdystrophin gene therapy, the leading therapeutic strategy, GDF5 further increased the proportion of small microdystrophin-positive fibers compared to gene therapy alone. These findings highlight GDF5 as a promising modulator of DMD pathology and provide the first evidence of an additive effect of the combination of GDF5-based intervention and AAV-microdystrophin treatment.© 2026 The Authors.
The effects of TGF-βs (transforming growth factor-βs) in failing hearts involve cell-specific actions mediated through receptor-regulated Smads or Smad-independent pathways. The inhibitory Smad, Smad7, is a negative feedback regulator that restrains excessive TGF-β/receptor-regulated Smad signaling, while also exerting TGF-β-independent effects. We hypothesized that cardiomyocyte Smad7 upregulation contributes to the pathogenesis of pressure overload-induced heart failure and investigated the mechanisms underlying its actions.Cardiomyocyte-specific Smad7 knockout mice and corresponding Cre+ and Smad7fl/fl controls underwent transverse aortic constriction. Echocardiographic, histological, transcriptomic, and proteomic analyses were performed. RNA sequencing identified candidate pathways modulated by Smad7. Effects of Smad7 loss on TGF-β and ERBB2 (erb-b2 receptor tyrosine kinase 2) cascades were examined in vivo and in cardiomyocyte-like H9c2 cells using western blotting.Smad7 was upregulated in cardiomyocytes and fibroblasts following transverse aortic constriction and in patients with nonischemic cardiomyopathy. Cardiomyocyte-specific Smad7 knockout mice had no baseline abnormalities but developed worse systolic and diastolic dysfunction and increased cardiomyocyte hypertrophy after pressure overload. Cardiomyocyte Smad7 loss did not alter fibrosis after transverse aortic constriction but increased macrophage infiltration. Cardiomyocyte-specific Smad7 knockout hearts showed reduced expression of genes associated with cardiac contraction. Bioinformatic analysis identified TGF-β1, angiotensin, and ERBB2 as candidate upstream regulators mediating the effects of Smad7 loss. In vivo, cardiomyocyte Smad7 inhibited activation of TGF-β receptor 1 (TGFBR1)/Smad2/3 and ERBB2 without affecting TGF-β receptor 2 (TGFBR2) activity. In the absence of Smad7, pressure-overloaded cardiomyocytes exhibited increased TGFBR1/Smad3 activation. In H9c2 cells, endogenous Smad7 restrained TGFBR1/Smad3 activation without affecting TGFBR2 or ERBB2 activity.Cardiomyocyte Smad7 protects the pressure-overloaded heart from dysfunction, regulating genes involved in muscle contraction, likely through direct suppression of TGFBR1/Smad3.
Periodontitis is a chronic inflammatory disorder characterized by a sustained inflammatory stimulus that creates an oxidative stress microenvironment within periodontal tissues. Under such conditions, elevated levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) disrupt the structural and functional integrity of periodontal ligament stem cells (PDLSCs), inhibit osteogenic differentiation, and impair the regeneration of periodontal bone defects. Herein, a ROS-responsive degradable hydrogel loaded with growth differentiation factor 5 (GDF5) was developed to target this pathological microenvironment. By incorporating a thioketal (TK) linker that can be cleaved by ROS, the hydrogel reacts with high concentrations of ROS, improving the oxidative stress environment. As the reaction occurs, the hydrogel is degraded, and during this process, GDF5 is successfully released into the microenvironment, then exerts a sustained osteogenic-promoting effect. This study does not simply expose GDF5 to a harmful environment. Instead, our hydrogel first rapidly scavenges high levels of ROS upon sensing them, creating a redox-balanced microenvironment for the cells; subsequently, it releases GDF5 through an ROS-triggered mechanism. This sequential logic of "clearing the environment first, then treating" is designed to ensure that the released GDF5 can function in an optimized and functional microenvironment, thereby maximizing its protective effects and promoting its osteogenic activity.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Understanding sex determination mechanism is crucial for elucidating sexual evolution and sex control in animal husbandry. In this study, data showed that doublesex and mab-3 related transcription factor 2 (DMRT2) expression in gonads was developmentally regulated in a sex- and lateralization-specific manner. The nuclear localization signal of DMRT2 was identified, showing high expression in the female gonadal cortex. Transcriptome and chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by sequencing (ChIP-seq) analyses screened and validated target genes (component of inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase complex (CHUK) and SRY-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9)) and downstream signaling pathways (e.g., sex determination, cell apoptosis, and inflammation related). It was also validated that DMRT2 could promote cell proliferation and inhibit apoptosis. The effect of DMRT2 on apoptosis and inflammation was mediated by CHUK. These factors may potentially regulate apoptosis pathway and Wnt signaling pathway. In conclusion, DMRT2 participates in sex differentiation and development of chicken gonads by regulating proliferation, apoptosis, and inflammatory pathways through target genes such as CHUK and SOX9. The novel mechanism of DMRT2 regulating avian gonadal differentiation and development may deepen understanding of vertebrate sexual evolution and facilitate sex control in poultry.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Bone regeneration assisted by synthetic bone substitutes largely depends on the integration of the vascular, neural, and lymphatic systems in the bone. Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) are the key cells for this process. However, their role in regulating the integration has not been fully characterized.Human BMSCs (hBMSCs) were treated with osteogenic induction and collected from 0 to 504 h for bulk RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq). Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified and Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and Time-Series Transcriptomic Trend Analysis were used to comprehensively analyze the possible pathways and functions associated with these DEGs. Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) was constructed to identify the modules and hub genes of the process. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) were performed to validate the expression of key genes identified by RNA-Seq.Time-series analysis of the hBMSCs transcriptome suggested a dynamic expression trajectory during osteogenic differentiation, which was characterized by four functional patterns: the initial adaptation stage (1-24 h), the proliferation activation stage (24-72 h), the differentiation regulation stage (72-336 h) and the remodeling stability stage (336-504 h). Moreover, 72 h was suggested as a potential key time point in the osteogenic-vascular-neural-lymphatic coupling process based on transcriptomic analysis, with typical activation of BMP, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and PPAR signaling pathways. Four modules and closely related hub genes such as growth differentiation factor 5 (GDF5), matrix Gla protein (MGP) and pregnancy-associated plasma protein A2 (PAPPA2), whose expressions were validated by qRT-PCR and ELISA were also identified and highlighted.Our study revealed the temporal trends of angiogenesis, lymphangiogenesis, and neurogenesis during BMSCs osteogenic differentiation, which not only supplemented the transcriptional regulation in bone regeneration, but also provided a theoretical basis for the design of synthetic bone substitutes.© 2026. The Author(s).
Synovial joints are complex organs composed of specialized tissues whose coordinated formation is essential for proper joint function. The cellular composition and regulatory programs governing late synovial joint development are less well characterized as compared to earlier stages of joint development. Here, we generated single-cell transcriptomic data of Growth differentiation factor 5 (Gdf5)-lineage cells from the embryonic mouse knee joint at embryonic day 17.5 and integrated these data with those from earlier developmental stages to infer transcriptional state progression across joint development. We identified nine distinct Gdf5-lineage populations corresponding to major joint tissues, including articular chondrocytes, superficial lining cells, ligament-tenogenic progenitors, synovial fibroblasts, and progenitor populations, and we validated their localization within the embryonic joint. We found a meniscus-associated progenitor state characterized by low expression of canonical chondrocyte markers and high expression of pleiotrophin (Ptn), distinguishing it from conventional articular chondrocytes. In addition, we found that Col22a1 and tetraspanin 15 (Tspan15) mark a transcriptionally and spatially distinct superficial lining cell population. To identify potential regulatory mechanisms underlying articular chondrocyte development, we reconstructed dynamic gene regulatory networks along the progenitor-to-chondrocyte trajectory, revealing a transition from a common regulatory state to cell type-specific regulatory program at later stages. In summary, our study provides data that improves our understanding of the developmental transcriptional programs that contribute to the major tissues of the synovial joint.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) and lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM) lack well-defined cellular origins, limiting treatment options. In this report, scRNA-seq of Tsc2+/- mouse renal cystadenomas revealed an 80-fold increase in a tumor cell subpopulation with neural crest features, expressing known cranial neural crest genes as SRY box transcription factor 9 (Sox9), transcription factor activator protein (Tfap2a), and candidate neurocristopathy markers, osteopontin (Spp1), lipocalin-2 (Lcn2), clusterin (Clu), and cytokeratin 18 (Krt18). These signatures were validated in mouse tumors and LAM patient lesions and serum, identifying a tumor phenotype distinct from traditional VEGFD detection. Pathway analysis indicated activation of WNT/SHH signaling, nephric duct formation, and protumorigenic signals, with transcription factor 7 (Tcf7) and ephrin-A ligands as key upstream regulators. Spp1 KO in cranial neural crest cells (CNCCs) significantly reduced proliferation (28%-33%), migration (54%-76%), and invasion (29%-64%) without affecting viability, while Tsc2 KO increased viability 3- to 6-fold with minimal effect on chemotaxis. Elevated serum levels of SPP1 and KRT18 in 1 subset of patients with LAM, decreased LCN2 in nearly all cases, and distinct increases in VEGFD in a separate subset suggest complementary roles for these biomarkers. Overall, findings support a neurocristopathic model of tumor development in TSC and LAM and identify potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets beyond mTOR inhibition.
Postpartum mammary gland involution is a coordinated process of cell death and remodeling that returns the tissue to a near pre-pregnant state following lactation and weaning. In models of postpartum breast cancer, defined as breast cancer diagnosed in women under age 45 and within 10 years of recent childbirth, involution induces durable phenotypes in breast tumor cells that promote progression and are associated with increased risk for therapeutic resistance, metastasis, and death in patients. SRY-Box Transcription Factor 9 (SOX9), a known regulator of mammary stem and progenitor cells, also promotes resistance to therapy and metastasis in breast cancers. Yet the contribution of SOX9 to the involution process is not well understood. We utilized single-cell RNA sequencing of mouse mammary glands during involution to delineate Sox9-expressing cell populations during lactation and involution. We found that Sox9 mRNA is primarily expressed in luminal progenitor cells that are largely absent during lactation and present during early involution. We also reveal that Sox9 is involved in a shift in cell state from lactational to non-lactational and is expressed in the surviving cells during involution. Prior work revealed that Semaphorin-7a (SEMA7A) also promotes cancer stem cell and prosurvival phenotypes in luminal progenitor cells during involution, and we observe a population of luminal progenitor cells that co-expresses Sox9 and Sema7a during involution. Mechanistically, we demonstrate that knockdown of Sox9 in cultured mammary epithelial cells results in increased SEMA7A expression, mesenchymal phenotypes, and loss of lactogenic differentiation capacity, identifying a potential regulatory axis where SOX9 balances SEMA7A expression in normal mammary epithelium and that disruption of this balance results in a dedifferentiated state that resembles mesenchymal cells. We validated a spatial relationship between SOX9 and SEMA7A proteins in a unique set of breast tissue samples from healthy human donors to show co-expression during early involution. In breast cancer datasets, we observe elevated expression of SOX9 and SEMA7A in triple-negative breast cancers, as well as in the mesenchymal subtype of triple-negative breast cancers, suggesting disruption of this regulatory axis in breast cancer. Finally, we observe that co-expression increases metastatic risk in both estrogen receptor-negative and -positive breast cancers. Collectively, these findings define a novel SOX9-SEMA7A relationship in healthy mammary tissues and illustrate how studies of normal progenitor cell phenotypes can delineate cellular mechanisms that contribute to breast tumor progression.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) exhibits substantial interpatient heterogeneity and is driven by intricate crosstalk between tumor-intrinsic mutations and the tumor microenvironment (TME), yet the mechanisms by which specific genetic alterations remodel the TME and regulate tumor stemness remain elusive. The SRY-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9) is a key regulator of intestinal homeostasis, with mutations implicated in CRC progression, but its single-cell level effects on TME dynamics have not been fully elucidated. To dissect the heterogeneity and cell-cell interactions underlying SOX9 mutation-driven CRC progression, we integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data of 23 CRC tumor samples with bulk sequencing and mutation data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) using the Scissor algorithm. We identified a malignant epithelial subpopulation (Scissor+) specifically associated with SOX9 mutations, which exhibits enhanced stemness signatures. Further, we predicted a significant upregulation of the COL1A1-CD44 axis in SOX9-mutant tumors via CellChat, which was supported by immunohistochemical analyses in patient tissues and mouse xenograft models. By integrating stemness-related genes and fibroblast-derived ligands, we established a 172-gene fibroblast-stemness signature that was associated with overall survival, recurrence-free survival, and disease-specific survival across multiple independent CRC cohorts. Functional validation via CD44 knockdown and in vivo xenograft assays confirmed that the COL1A1-CD44 axis mediates SOX9 mutation-driven stemness maintenance and tumor progression. Collectively, our data enhance understanding of how SOX9 mutations remodel the TME, pinpoint the COL1A1-CD44 axis as a promising therapeutic candidate for SOX9-mutant CRC, and support precise patient stratification and targeted interventions.© 2026. The Author(s).
Despite the widespread use of progesterone or progesterone receptor (PGR) blockers as contraceptives, the complete set of PGR-regulated genes and their roles in human ovulatory follicles remain unidentified. Here, we identified the PGR-regulated transcriptome, revealing numerous genes involved in metabolism, steroidogenesis, signaling activation, cell cycle regulation, and transcriptional control during ovulation using integrative omics and a primary human granulosa cell model that recapitulates the in vivo ovulatory phenomenon. These results led us to discover SRY-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9) as a human-specific, PGR-target gene during ovulation. Further functional studies showed that SOX9 regulates the expression of steroidogenesis-related genes, impacting progesterone production. In summary, we mapped the full spectrum of PGR-responsive genes in human ovulatory follicles and identified SOX9 as a human-specific mediator of the ovulatory process. These data provide critical insights into PGR-regulated ovulatory pathways, laying the foundation for developing targeted therapeutic strategies for infertility treatment and contraception.© 2026 The Authors.
Background and Objectives: The aim of this study is to evaluate the effects of oridonin on a cisplatin-induced ovarian injury rat model. Materials and Methods: Thirty female rats were divided into three groups. Group 1: control; group 2: cisplatin; group 3: cisplatin plus oridonin group. In groups 2 and 3, the rats were injected with 2.5 mg/kg (twice weekly) cisplatin intraperitoneally (i.p.) for 4 weeks. In Group 3, rats received oridonin (10 mg/kg/day, i.p.). At the end of the study, the ovaries were removed in all groups. Histopathologic analysis and follicle counting were performed. Plasma anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH), malondialdehyde (MDA), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) levels were measured, while ovarian transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1), SMAD family member 3 (SMAD3), and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1 (TIMP-1) levels were evaluated. Results: Oridonin alleviated cisplatin-induced histopathological changes in the ovarian tissue. The numbers of primordial, primary, secondary, and tertiary follicles were significantly decreased, while ovarian fibrosis was significantly increased in Group 2 compared with Group 1 (p < 0.05). Co-treatment with oridonin statistically significantly increased follicle counts at all developmental stages and markedly reduced ovarian fibrosis in group 2 compared with group 3. Compared with Group 1, AMH decreased, whereas MDA, TNF-α, TGF-β1, SMAD3, and TIMP-1 increased in Group 2 (p < 0.001); these alterations were markedly attenuated in Group 3. Conclusions: These findings suggest that oridonin may exert protective effects against cisplatin-induced ovarian injury.
Astrocyte reactivity critically shapes neuroinflammatory outcomes after ischemic stroke, yet the upstream regulators governing astrocyte state transitions remain incompletely defined. Here, we identify the immunoproteasome subunit low molecular weight protein 2 (LMP2) as an important modulator of astrocyte functional remodeling following cerebral ischemia/reperfusion (I/R). Using global and astrocyte-specific knockout models, we demonstrate that LMP2 deficiency markedly reduces infarct volume, attenuates neuroinflammation, and improves neurological and cognitive outcomes. Mechanistically, LMP2 coordinately modulates inflammatory and reparative signaling networks by promoting nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB)-dependent inflammatory activation while constraining transforming growth factor-β1(TGF-β1)/SMAD family member 3 (Smad3)-associated reparative responses, thereby biasing astrocyte reactive states toward more inflammatory and maladaptive programs along the inflammatory-reparative continuum. Conversely, LMP2 inhibition promoted more adaptive and neuroprotective astrocyte-associated programs, enhanced neurotrophic support, and limited apoptosis under ischemic stress. Integrative transcriptomic and single-cell analyses further revealed that astrocyte responses exist along a continuum of functional states, with LMP2 influencing the distribution of astrocyte states rather than acting as a binary switch. Collectively, these findings uncover a previously unrecognized immunoproteasome-astrocyte regulatory axis involved in neuroinflammatory remodeling and highlight LMP2 as a promising target for precision modulation of post-ischemic brain injury.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Despite significant advances in identifying susceptibility genes for bronchial asthma (BA), the immunogenetic and other molecular mechanisms underlying disease risk and progression remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to investigate the association between two common single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), rs17293632 and rs2033784, located within the SMAD3 (SMAD family member 3) gene-previously identified in genome-wide association studies-and susceptibility to atopic asthma and allergen sensitivity in Russian children.This study included DNA samples from 999 unrelated children from the Kursk region, comprising 526 patients with BA (316 boys and 210 girls) and 473 healthy children. SNP genotyping was performed using the MassARRAY-4 system.Both SNPs were associated with an increased risk of BA under the additive genetic model (p ≤ 0.001). In the sex-stratified analysis, the rs17293632 (odds ratio (OR) = 1.79, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.15-2.77; p = 9.0 × 10-4) and rs2033784 (OR = 1.80, 95% CI: 1.28-2.52; p = 6.0 × 10-4) variants were exclusively associated with asthma risk among girls, whereas no significant associations were observed in boys. The rs17293632T-rs2033784G haplotype was associated with an increased risk of asthma in girls (OR = 2.01, 95% CI: 1.38-2.92, p = 3.0 × 10-4). Notably, SMAD3 gene polymorphisms were associated with an increased risk of asthma exclusively among children living in urban environments (p ≤ 0.0001). Polymorphisms in the SMAD3 gene have also been linked to specific allergies, including those to horsehair, chicken eggs, beef, wheat, oatmeal, barley, and foxtail.The present study of Russian children confirmed that the rs17293632 and rs2033784 polymorphisms of the SMAD3 gene are significant genetic markers associated with BA and allergies. However, an association between these SMAD3 variants and asthma was observed only among girls, marking the first time this association has been reported. Further research is necessary to determine whether the SMAD3 gene constitutes a viable therapeutic target for treating asthma and allergic diseases.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
In this study, we explored the therapeutic effects and mechanisms of baicalin (BA) in a dibutyltin dichloride (DBTC)-induced chronic pancreatitis (CP) rat model using metabolomics and network pharmacology. The results showed that BA significantly reduced inflammatory cell infiltration and fibrosis in pancreatic tissues, lowered serum levels of interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), amylase (AMS), and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and thereby decreased expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) and fibronectin (FN) in pancreatic tissues. Metabolomic analyses revealed that BA influences multiple metabolic pathways, including glycerophospholipid and arachidonic acid metabolism, in serum and urine. Network pharmacology identified key targets, such as phospholipase A2 group IVA (PLA2G4A) and transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4), which are primarily involved in IL-17 signaling, as well as other pathways beyond inflammation. Further integrated analysis demonstrated that BA inhibits pancreatic stellate cell activation and reduces pancreatic fibrosis by regulating metabolites, such as arachidonic acid, that act on the PLA2G4A/TRPV4 and transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1)/SMAD family member 3 (SMAD3) pathways. Molecular docking studies confirmed that BA binds strongly to these targets. In summary, BA exerts anti-inflammatory and antifibrotic effects through multiple targets and pathways, thereby alleviating the pathological progression of CP.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
This study adopted an integrated strategy combining serum transitional component screening, network pharmacology prediction, and animal experiment verification to systematically explore the core active components and mechanism of action of Yinxing Yangnao Formula(YYF) in the treatment of vascular dementia(VD), aiming to provide solid experimental evidence for the modernization of this classical TCM prescription. With the use of ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-Orbitrap high-resolution mass spectrometry(UPLC-Orbitrap-HRMS), a total of 97 chemical components were identified from the YYF extract by combining accurate mass-to-charge ratio, characteristic fragmentation ions of MS/MS, comparison with reference standards, and matching with literature databases. Furthermore, 27 serum transitional components were captured through the analysis of YYF-containing serum from rats, which were inferred as the key material basis for the in vivo pharmacodynamic effects of YYF. The potential targets of the serum transitional components were predicted using the SwissTargetPrediction database, and VD-related disease targets were screened from authoritative databases including GeneCard, OMIM, and GEO with the keyword dementia vascular. A total of 275 common targets were obtained with the Jvenn online tool. The &quot;drug-component-target-disease&quot; network was constructed using Cytoscape 3.9.1 software, and core active components such as isoscopoletin, jaceosidin, catalpol, senkyunolide F, and bilobalide were screened out. The protein-protein interaction(PPI) network was constructed via the STRING database, identifying key regulatory targets including the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase family, sarcoma, protein tyrosine phosphatase, non-receptor type 11, Janus kinase 2, and protein tyrosine kinase 2. Gene Ontology(GO) functional enrichment and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) pathway analysis revealed that the core targets were mainly enriched in biological processes such as oxidative stress, neurological function, and immune and inflammatory responses, involving phosphoinositide 3-kinase-protein kinase B(PI3K-Akt), mitogen-activated protein kinase(MAPK), and Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription 3(JAK-STAT3) signaling pathways. Molecular docking results showed that bilobalide had a good binding effect with core targets. Verification experiments on VD rat models demonstrated that YYF might exert the therapeutic effect by alleviating oxidative stress through modulating the serum levels of superoxide dismutase(SOD), glutathione peroxidase(GSH-Px), and malondialdehyde(MDA). This study preliminarily clarified the material basis, pharmacological effects, and underlying mechanism of YYF in the treatment of VD, providing a direction and basis for subsequent research on the complete regulatory chain of &quot;drug-target-pathway-phenotype&quot;.
This study aimed to investigate the role of protein tyrosine kinase-like 7 (PTK7) in the progression of fibrosis of renal tubular epithelial cells and to elucidate its underlying molecular mechanisms, thereby evaluating the potential of PTK7 as a therapeutic target for renal fibrosis. Immunohistochemistry, Western blotting, and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) were performed to examine PTK7 expression in a mouse model of renal fibrosis. Public single-cell transcriptomic datasets were employed to analyze the expression distribution of PTK7 among different renal cell types. A stable PTK7-knockout transformed C3H mouse kidney-1 (TCMK-1) cell line was generated via clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats/CRISPR-associated protein 9 (CRISPR/Cas9), and following transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) stimulation, cellular morphological changes were observed. The expression levels of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-related proteins (E-cadherin and vimentin) and fibrosis-related proteins (α-SMA, fibronectin, and collagen I) were assessed. Cell proliferative activity and migratory capacity were evaluated by cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) and wound healing assays, respectively, and the phosphorylation levels of Smad family member 2 (Smad2)/Smad family member 3 (Smad3) were analyzed to explore the potential mechanisms. PTK7 expression was significantly upregulated in the kidney tissue of the mouse model and was highly expressed in renal tubular epithelial cells. PTK7 knockout suppressed TGF-β1-induced EMT progression and the expression of fibrosis-related proteins (P0.001), and it attenuated the migratory ability of renal tubular epithelial cells under TGF-β1 stimulation. From a mechanism perspective, PTK7 deficiency effectively inhibited TGF-β1-triggered activation of Smad2/Smad3 phosphorylation. PTK7 promotes the fibrosis of renal tubular epithelial cells through activation of the TGF-β1/Smad signaling pathway, and PTK7 knockout can effectively alleviate fibrosis-related phenotypes at the cellular level. This study provides experimental evidence for further exploration of PTK7 as a potential therapeutic target against renal fibrosis.
To investigate fibrosis-related gene expression profiles in benign ureteral strictures and their association with restenosis after ureteroplasty and to develop a predictive risk score model.A total of 100 patients with benign strictures who underwent ureteroplasty were included.Stenotic tissues were collected intraoperatively, and the expression levels of 15 fibrosis-related genes were determined by quantitative real-time PCR. According to whether restenosis occurred at 12 months postoperatively, the patients were assigned to stenotic group (n = 39) and non-stenotic group (n = 61). Independent predictors were identified using logistic regression, a risk score model was constructed and model performance was assessed using receiver operating characteristic curve, calibration curves and decision curve analysis (DCA). The restenosis-free rates of the risk groups were compared through Kaplan-Meier survival analysis, and internal validation was performed through Bootstrap resampling.High expression levels of type I collagen α1 chain (COL1A1), transforming growth factor-β1 (TGFB1), Snail family member 1 (SNAI1), SMAD family member 3 (SMAD3) and thrombospondin 2 (THBS2) genes were identified as independent risk factors for postoperative restenosis (all p < 0.05). Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed that the restenosis-free rate at 12 months was significantly lower in the high-risk group than in the low-risk group (51.02% vs. 70.59%, log-rank p = 0.007). The area under the curve (AUC) of the risk scoring model was 0.854 [95% confidence interval (CI): 0.772-0.973], with a sensitivity of 87.12% and specificity of 84.55%. Bootstrap internal validation yielded a corrected AUC of 0.848 (95% CI: 0.812-0.891), confirming the model's stability. The calibration curve demonstrated good agreement between predicted probabilities and observed outcomes (Hosmer-Lemeshow test, p > 0.05). DCA showed that the model provided a net clinical benefit across a wide range of threshold probabilities. Further analysis showed that the expression levels of the above five genes were significantly positively correlated with the pathological fibrosis grade of stenotic tissues (all p < 0.001).The high expression levels of COL1A1, TGFB1, SNAI1, SMAD3 and THBS2 in benign ureteral strictures is closely related to the degree of tissue fibrosis and postoperative restenosis. The risk scoring model based on these genes showed good predictive performance and can thus serve as useful tool for clinical individualised treatment and prognostic assessment.© 2026 The Author(s).
WNT2B is canonically characterized as a secreted WNT-family ligand, which is transported to the extracellular space via the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-Golgi pathway and binds to cell surface FZDs (frizzled class receptors) to trigger downstream signaling cascades. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized non-secretory intracellular function of WNT2B in impairing endosomal trafficking to inhibit macroautophagy/autophagy, as well as a non-canonical LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion mechanism for WNT2B. Specifically, the non-secretory intracellular pool of WNT2B via its conserved middle domain (MD) binds to the spectrin repeat domain (SRD) of WASHC5, competitively displacing WASHC1 and thereby disrupting WASH complex assembly and inhibiting WASHC1-mediated actin polymerization on early endosomes. This disruption impairs endosomal cargo trafficking, including the core autophagy protein ATG9A, leading to defective autophagy initiation and subsequent accumulation of pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic factors in fibroblasts. We validated this mechanism in vivo using a TNBS-induced mouse model of chronic colitis. Fibroblast-specific wnt2b deletion restores autophagy, reduces pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion, and ameliorates intestinal fibrosis. Consistently, in Crohn disease (CD) patient tissues, elevated WNT2B in fibrotic regions negatively correlates with autophagy activity, and positively correlates with pro-fibrotic phenotypes, and clinical disease severity. Moreover, we identify a novel LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion pathway for WNT2B, which is distinct from the conventional ER-to-Golgi-dependent protein secretion. Collectively, our study delineates a novel non-canonical WNT2B-WASH complex-ATG9A regulatory axis through which WNT2B impairs endosomal trafficking and disrupts autophagy, ultimately amplifying inflammation and fibrosis. This study suggests that WNT2B may serve as a promising therapeutic target for CD and autophagy-associated fibrotic disorders.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; AAV: adeno-associated virus; ACTA2: actin alpha 2, smooth muscle; ARPC2: actin related protein 2/3 complex subunit 2; ATG: autophagy related; CCN3: cellular communication network factor 3; CD: Crohn disease; CK666: 2-fluoro-N-[2-(2-methyl-1H-indol-3-yl)ethyl]benzamide; COL1A1: collagen type I alpha 1 chain; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CTNNB1: catenin beta 1; DBcAMP: dibutyryl cyclic adenosine monophosphate; DPT: dermatopontin; EEA1: early endosome antigen 1; EGFR: epidermal growth factor receptor; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complexes required for transport; EV: extracellular vesicle; FRAP: fluorescence recovery after photobleaching; FL: full length; FZD: frizzled class receptor; GST: glutathione S-transferase; HIF: human intestinal fibroblast; HMGB1: high mobility group box 1; IKBKB: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit beta; IL6: interleukin 6; LDELS: LC3-dependent EV loading and secretion; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MD: middle domain; MEFs: mouse embryonic fibroblasts; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MVB: multivesicular body; NFKB: nuclear factor kappa B; NFKBIA: NFKB inhibitor alpha; PDCD6IP: programmed cell death 6 interacting protein; PLA: proximity ligation assay; RELA/p65: RELA proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; SAFB: scaffold attachment factor B; SES-CD: Simple Endoscopic Score for Crohn disease; SIM: super-resolution structured illumination microscopy; SMAD3: SMAD family member 3; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; SRD: spectrin repeat domain; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TFRC: transferrin receptor; TGFB1: transforming growth factor beta 1; TGOLN2: trans-golgi network protein 2; TNBS: 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; VCA: Verprolin homology, Central and Acidic; WASHC: WASH complex subunit; WLS: Wnt ligand secretion mediator; WCL: whole cell lysates; WNT: Wnt family member; WT, wild type.
Pulmonary fibrosis is characterized by persistent activation of lung fibroblasts and excessive extracellular matrix (ECM) deposition; however, the transcriptional mechanisms sustaining this activated state remain poorly understood. Given the established profibrotic role of zinc finger protein 469 (ZNF469) in other mesenchymal lineages, we investigated its function in lung fibroblasts using an integrated functional and transcriptomic approach. We found that ZNF469 depletion attenuated key features of fibroblast activation, including proliferation, migration, and contractile capacity, concomitantly reducing collagen production and deposition. Mechanistically, combined transcriptomic profiling and Cleavage Under Targets and Release Using Nuclease (CUT&RUN) assays revealed that ZNF469 modulates ECM-associated transcriptional regulation, demonstrating preferential occupancy at the promoters of key collagen genes, such as collagen type I alpha 1 chain (COL1A1) and collagen type III alpha 1 chain (COL3A1). Furthermore, we demonstrated that transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1) stimulated ZNF469 expression in a SMAD family member 3 (SMAD3)-dependent manner, with CUT&RUN further revealing SMAD3 occupancy at the ZNF469 promoter. Importantly, ZNF469 depletion blunted TGF-β1-induced collagen production, indicating that ZNF469 contributes to the profibrotic effects of the TGF-β1/SMAD3 axis. Finally, we underscored the clinical relevance of ZNF469 by analyzing bulk and single-cell RNA sequencing data from patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and systemic sclerosis. ZNF469 was found to be upregulated in fibrotic lung tissues, particularly within the activated fibroblast lineage, and correlated with key ECM gene signatures. Our findings collectively support a model wherein the TGF-β1/SMAD3/ZNF469 axis contributes significantly to ECM gene regulation and fibroblast activation, thereby positioning ZNF469 as a critical profibrotic factor and a promising therapeutic target in pulmonary fibrosis.
Chondroadherin-like (CHADL), a small leucine-rich proteoglycan, plays a role in ECM assembly and chondrocyte differentiation. CHADL has been implicated in osteoarthritis (OA) due to the discovery of a rare frameshift variant (rs532464664) that confers one of the highest genetic risks for hip OA reported to date. In this study, we characterized the skeletal phenotypes of two mouse models of Chadl loss-of-function, a global null and an 8bp insertion that mimics the human frameshift variant. Surprisingly, while there was a slight increase in knee OA at 12 months, there were no genotype-based differences in knee or hip OA in aged mice. Interestingly, histological assessment revealed phenotypic changes in the intervertebral discs of mutant mice, along with increased disc height index, suggesting altered motion-segment biomechanics. Polarized imaging showed dysregulated collagen turnover in the annulus fibrosus (AF), evidenced by changes in the proportions of thin and intermediate fibers. There was decreased abundance of the nucleus pulposus (NP) marker CA3 and decreased staining for ECM proteins in the AF of mutants. CHADL loss affected vertebral trabecular architecture, cortical thickness, and mineral density. This study highlights an unrecognized role of CHADL in fine-tuning ECM homeostasis and health of the intervertebral disc and vertebral bone.
Skeletal dysplasias are a common cause of short stature and are often linked with multisystemic features. The Hedgehog signaling pathway plays a vital role in skeletal development and is regulated by the protein kinase domain-containing cytoplasmic (PKDCC) gene, also known as vertebrate lonesome kinase. Pathogenic variants in the PKDCC gene have been reported in very few patients worldwide and are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. We report 2 siblings-a 6-year-old girl and a 3-year-old boy-who present with rhizomelic short stature, facial dysmorphism, low-set ears, and umbilical hernia. The girl has a history of cardiac septal defects and camptodactyly, while her younger brother shows no systemic complications. A comprehensive laboratory panel was normal in both siblings, and whole exome sequencing revealed a homozygous splice acceptor variant of the PKDCC gene on chromosome 2:g.42280377A>T, (NM_138370.3, c.640-2A>T), leading to a diagnosis of rhizomelic limb shortening with dysmorphic features. To our knowledge, this is the first report of siblings from India with a PKDCC pathogenic variant, underscoring the importance of genetic screening in cases of short stature accompanied by dysmorphism and dysplasia.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society.
To highlight the key translational advances and interdisciplinary discussions from the 2025 University of Debrecen Musculoskeletal Symposium (UD-MUSK), focusing on osteoarthritis (OA) and related musculoskeletal (MSK) diseases.The UD-MUSK Symposium convened international and local experts for keynote presentations and scientific dialogue spanning OA and MSK disease mechanisms, translational therapies, and tissue regeneration. Core topics included extracellular matrix (ECM) remodelling, cell/gene therapies, animal disease models, chronic stress, autoimmunity, immunotherapies, and muscle and stem cell biology, reflecting the Symposium's broad interdisciplinary spectrum.ECM proteomics revealed degradation fragments that act as drivers and potential modulators of OA, offering new biomarkers and therapeutic targets. Advances in cell- and gene-based therapies were presented, including the use of growth differentiation factor 6 (GDF6) and CRISPR approaches for cartilage and intervertebral disc repair. Large animal models simulating spatio-temporal changes in human OA, and studies demonstrating chronic stress-accelerated OA via neuroendocrine mechanisms, were highlighted. Novel strategies in immune modulation, such as chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy for autoimmune myopathies, alongside research on muscle regeneration and circadian regulation by mechanical loading, further exemplified the translational breadth of the meeting.The symposium underscored the value and need of integrating molecular research and disease modeling. Interdisciplinary collaboration continues to enhance understanding of MSK disease mechanisms and supports development of targeted, regenerative therapies with translational potential for OA and related disorders.© 2025 The Author(s).
The degeneration of the muscle in muscle dystrophies involves complex interactions among the different cell types. Here, we have used datasets from single-nuclei RNA sequencing (snRNAseq) of Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) muscle samples to study the dysregulation of molecular pathways compared to healthy control muscle. We have observed that the epidermal growth factor (EGF) signaling is upregulated in DMD by an increase of the ligands EGF and EGF containing fibulin extracellular matrix protein 1 (EFEMP1). This study explores the role of EGF and EFEMP1 in FAPs and myoblasts in vitro. We provide evidence that EFEMP1 is secreted by FAPs in DMD and is mainly involved with increased myotube size but without enhancing muscle strength. Conversely, EGF enhances fibrotic differentiation in FAPs and promote smaller, proliferative myotubes in myoblasts, aligning with a fibrotic and dysfunctional muscle phenotype in DMD. The cellular differences from both ligands can be explained by the interactions with the receptor type, with EGF activating both EGFR and ErbB2, while EFEMP1 selectively maintained ErbB4 in an inactive state but promoting EGFR-ErbB2 and ErbB2-ErbB4 heterodimerization, potentially enhancing EGF signaling. Consequently, this study examinates the alteration of the EGF signalling in DMD and provides new molecular interactions in muscle that can be useful for targeted therapies of muscle degeneration.© 2025. The Author(s).
Objective: Cardiac hypertrophy, a key feature and predisposing factor of heart failure, is mainly controlled by complex signaling cascades. Growth differentiation factor 6 (GDF6) plays critical roles in cell growth and cardiovascular homeostasis; however, its role and underlying mechanisms in cardiac hypertrophy remain unclear. Methods: Mice were intravenously injected with adeno-associated virus serotype 9 to overexpress and knock down GDF6 in murine hearts and then exposed to transverse aortic constriction (TAC) surgery to generate pressure overload-induced cardiac hypertrophy. Echocardiographic, histological, and molecular analyses were performed to decipher the alterations to cardiac hypertrophy. In addition, neonatal rat ventricular myocytes (NRVMs) were isolated and stimulated with phenylephrine (PE) to further validate its involvement in hypertrophic growth of cardiomyocytes. Results: GDF6 expression was elevated in murine hearts and NRVMs by ROS production under hypertrophic stimuli. GDF6 knockdown aggravated, while GDF6 overexpression attenuated, pressure overload-induced cardiac hypertrophy, inflammation, and dysfunction in vivo. Meanwhile, we found that GDF6 also prevented PE-induced hypertrophic growth of NRVMs in vitro. Mechanistically, GDF6 activated AMPKα to exert cardioprotective effects, and AMPKα inhibition significantly blocked the anti-hypertrophic effects of GDF6. Further studies showed that GDF6 activated AMPKα through the cAMP/Epac1 pathway, and that Epac1 knockdown abolished the protective effects of GDF6 against TAC- or PE-induced cardiac hypertrophy in vivo and in vitro. Conclusions: In general, our findings, for the first time, define GDF6 as a negative regulator of cardiac hypertrophy and show that supplementation of GDF6 may be of great therapeutic interest for heart failure.
Peripheral facial paralysis (PFP) is a common neurological disorder characterized by facial-nerve dysfunction. Identifying therapeutic targets and understanding the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying PFP are crucial for developing effective treatment strategies. This study combined Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) to explore potential therapeutic candidates and their roles in PFP pathophysiology. The MR analysis included 1925 publicly available plasma protein cis-heritability instruments. Instrumental variables were selected for MR analysis to identify plasma proteins associated with PFP, followed by colocalization analysis to evaluate shared genetic variants between the identified proteins and PFP. After the initial identification of plasma proteins associated with Bell's palsy using MR analysis, a rat model of facial-nerve injury was established to further dissect underlying mechanisms at cellular and molecular levels. Using scRNA-seq technology, we delved deeply into cellular Heterogeneity and dynamic changes in gene expression in the facial-nerve nucleus tissues under both injured and control conditions, thereby achieving a systematic study ranging from macroscopic genetic associations to microscopic cellular functions. Finally, expression patterns were preliminarily validated by performing in vitro immunofluorescence analysis on the facial-nerve nucleus samples of SD rats. The MR analysis results identified 30 plasma proteins significantly associated with PFP, with nine target genes showing differential expression in the scRNA-seq data. Colocalization analysis demonstrated that slit guidance Ligand 2 (SLIT2), semaphorin 4D (SEMA4D), EGF containing fibulin extracellular matrix protein 1 (EFEMP1), and sprouty related EVH1 domain containing 2 (SPRED2) shared causal variants with PFP. SLIT2 was highly expressed in the microglia and inhibitory neurons in the experimental group, whereas SEMA4D showed elevated expression across multiple glial cell types in the same group. In contrast, EFEMP1 and SPRED2 showed distinct expression patterns in fibroblasts and oligodendrocytes. The role of SLIT2 has been previously well-documented in many central nervous system diseases. However, for the first time, this study detected SLIT2 alteration after facial-nerve injury. Altered intercellular signaling, particularly enhanced SLIT2-ROBO signaling between neurons and glial cells, was observed in the PFP group. Pseudotime analysis revealed dynamic SLIT2 expression during microglia and inhibitory neuron differentiation, mirroring changes in ROBO1 expression. Immunofluorescence analysis of rat facial-nerve nucleus samples verified that SLIT2 protein levels were significantly increased in the facial-nerve nuclei of injured samples. In conclusion, despite the fact that this study is primarily founded on animal models and despite notable differences existing between animals and humans in terms of the facial motor nucleus, this study successfully identified SLIT2 as potential therapeutic targets for PFP. The SLIT2-ROBO axis stands out as a particularly promising candidate. SLIT2 may play a role in modulating neuroimmune interactions and promoting nerve repair. These findings provide a foundation for future clinical studies and targeted interventions to enhance recovery from PFP. Future research should focus on human sample validation to enhance clinical translation.© 2025. The Author(s).
The reasons behind the high prevalence of poorly differentiated gastric cancer in young females remain unclear. Therefore, this study aimed to conduct a comprehensive genetic analysis to investigate the factors responsible for the high prevalence of poorly differentiated gastric cancer in young females.We analyzed 299 patients who underwent gastric cancer surgery at the Gunma University Hospital between April 2015 and December 2020. Among them, we selected cases of poorly differentiated gastric cancer in females, differentiated gastric cancer in females, and poorly differentiated gastric cancer in males, aged 30-50 years. Three eligible cases of each condition were found and included in the study. RNA was isolated from dissected formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue samples, followed by RNA sequencing. The results were analyzed using ingenuity pathway analysis to elucidate the mechanisms contributing to the high incidence of poorly differentiated gastric cancer in young females.Dexamethasone, β-estradiol, and interleukin-1β were identified as significant upstream regulators associated with poorly differentiated gastric cancer in young females. The downstream target genes of β-estradiol included male germ cell-associated kinase, growth differentiation factor 6, endothelin 2, and collagen type XI alpha 1 chain.Our detailed RNA-seq analysis revealed that the female sex hormone, β-estradiol, plays a role in the development of poorly differentiated gastric cancer in young females.© 2025 The Author(s). Annals of Gastroenterological Surgery published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of The Japanese Society of Gastroenterological Surgery.
Since its discovery, porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) has significantly affected the agricultural economy worldwide. The available commercialized coronavirus vaccines cannot adequately control emerging strains. Therefore, investigating the correlation between viruses and antiviral host factors is necessary. In this study, we showed that zinc finger protein 219 (ZNF219) was upregulated by viral nonstructural protein 12 (nsp12) upon PEDV challenge. Moreover, ZNF219 inhibited the replication of PEDV through selective autophagic degradation of the PEDV S2 protein. ZNF219 recruited TRAF6, the ubiquitin E3 ligase, to ubiquitinate the PEDV S2 protein. After recognition, the ubiquitinated PEDV S2 protein was delivered to autolysosomes via the cargo receptor p62 for degradation by autophagy, thus inhibiting the proliferation of PEDV. To summarize, after sensing PEDV infection by recognizing the viral nsp12 protein, host cells upregulated the intracellular expression of ZNF219, which degraded the viral S2 protein by activating autophagy, thus suppressing viral replication. Our study revealed a novel antiviral mechanism involving ZNF219 and provided a novel target for preventing and treating PEDV.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
While overall cancer mortality has steadily decreased in recent decades, cancer health disparities among racial and ethnic population groups persist. Here we studied the relationship between cancer survival disparities (CSD), genetic ancestry (GA), and tumor molecular signatures across 33 cancers in a cohort of 9,818 patients. GA correlated with race and ethnicity but showed observable differences in effects on CSD, with significant associations identified in four cancer types: breast invasive carcinoma (BRCA), head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), kidney renal clear cell carcinoma (KIRC), and skin cutaneous carcinoma (SKCM). Differential gene expression and methylation between ancestry groups associated cancer-related genes with CSD, of which, seven protein-coding genes [progestin and adipoQ receptor family member 6 (PAQR6), Lck-interacting transmembrane adaptor 1 (LIME1), Sin3A-associated protein 25 (SAP25), MAX dimerization protein 3 (MXD3), coiled-coil glutamate rich protein 2 (CCER2), refilin A (RFLNA), and cathepsin W (CTSW)] significantly interacted with GA and exacerbated observed survival disparities. These findings indicated that regulatory changes mediated by epigenetic mechanisms have a greater contribution to CSD than population-specific mutations. Overall, we uncovered various molecular mechanisms through which GA might impact CSD, revealing potential population-specific therapeutic targets for groups disproportionately burdened by cancer.This large-cohort, multicancer study identifies four cancer types with cancer survival disparities and seven cancer-related genes that interact with genetic ancestry and contribute to disparities.©2022 The Authors; Published by the American Association for Cancer Research.
ELOC-mutated renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is a rare tumor with only ∼40 cases reported to date; it shares a molecular background with clear cell RCC (ccRCC) in terms of hypoxia-inducible factor-alpha (HIF-α) protein accumulation. ELOC-mutated RCC is characterized by prominent leiomyomatous stromal growth and a more indolent clinical course compared with ccRCC. In our previous study, whole-genome sequencing of 102 ccRCC cases identified 5 cases of ELOC-mutated RCC. In the present study, we conducted proteomic and immunohistochemical analyses on up to 13 Japanese ELOC-mutated RCCs, including 8 previously reported cases, to elucidate its distinct molecular mechanisms and identify biomarkers that may be useful in distinguishing ELOC-mutated RCC from ccRCC. Proteomic profiling revealed that molecules, including cytokeratin 7, scinderin (SCIN), and sortilin 1 (SORT1), were significantly overexpressed in ELOC-mutated RCC compared with ccRCC. Notably, SCIN and SORT1 emerged as novel potential diagnostic biomarkers for distinguishing ELOC-mutated RCC from ccRCC. The analysis further suggested that ELOC-mutated RCC relies more on oxidative phosphorylation and less on glycolysis than ccRCC. This metabolic shift may be linked to the relative depletion of NAD+ due to the low expression of NAPRT and QPRT. In addition, we observed geographic variation in the disease frequency among different cohorts, with a higher frequency in Japan. Our findings provide novel insights into the pathogenesis of ELOC-mutated RCC and highlight SCIN and SORT1 as potential supportive biomarkers.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Appropriate organ scaling is crucial for many basic biological processes. However, very little is known about how invertebrates achieve appropriate scaling. A larval Drosophila model for overgrowth was used here to examine the effects of increased body size on whole body physiology. Overgrown larvae reach over twice the size of controls and exhibit altered fat storage, decreased movement and speed, as well as decreased oxygen consumption. This points to an inability of the larvae to maintain appropriate physiology in this overgrowth model. Scaling of the heart was examined, and it was found to increase disproportionately with body size, and live imaging revealed decreased cardiac contractility and output. A potential cause for this defect was dramatically increased levels of LOXL2 (Lysyl oxidase-like 2), a major collagen crosslinking enzyme that increases matrix stiffness. Inhibiting the function of LOXL2 significantly improved both physiological and cardiac defects observed in the overgrown larvae. Overall, we present an overgrowth model with intriguing possibilities for examining the ability of a system to tolerate overgrowth and show that inhibition of extracellular matrix crosslinking can be used to compensate for cardiac defects in this model.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Background/Objectives Lysyl oxidase-like 2 (LOXL2), a member of the lysyl oxidase family of amine oxidases involved in collagen cross-linking, has emerged as a key mediator of pathological extracellular matrix remodeling and tissue fibrosis. Dysregulated LOXL2 activity has been implicated in various fibrotic diseases; however, its role in fibrosis-driven chronic kidney injury, particularly in the context of calcineurin inhibitor-induced kidney toxicity, remains incompletely defined. Methods To investigate the contribution of LOXL2 inhibitor to cyclosporine A (CsA)-induced nephropathy, a well-established model of progressive tubulointerstitial fibrosis, male CD-1 mice were administered either saline or CsA (15 mg/kg/day, intraperitoneally) for 8 weeks. After 4 weeks of CsA exposure, CsA-treated mice were further divided into two groups and received either vehicle or a LOXL2 inhibitor (10 mg/kg/day, oral gavage) for an additional 4 weeks. Kidney function, albuminuria, histological fibrosis, inflammatory cell infiltration, and profibrotic gene expression were assessed. Results In a murine model of CsA-induced nephropathy, pharmacological inhibition of LOXL2 markedly improved kidney outcomes. LOXL2 inhibition significantly reduced albuminuria and ameliorated kidney dysfunction. In parallel, tubulointerstitial fibrosis was substantially attenuated, accompanied by reduced myofibroblast activation and extracellular matrix accumulation. These protective effects were associated with downregulation of profibrotic and inflammatory mediators and inhibition of TGF-β-related downstream signaling pathways activated by CsA. Conclusions The present preclinical findings suggest that Compound #765-mediated LOXL2 inhibition may offer a potential therapeutic benefit in CsA-induced fibrosis, though further validation is warranted.
Despite extensive validation of lysyl oxidase-like 2 (LOXL2) as a therapeutic target in metastatic cancer, there have been few therapeutic applications of corresponding inhibitors until now. Herein, we reported the design, synthesis, and biological evaluation of two series of 4-(aminomethyl)-2-(phenylamino)pyridine derivatives (7a-7u and 10a-10u) as novel LOXL2 inhibitors for metastatic melanoma intervention. Structure-based optimization of 2-substituted pyridine-4-ylmethanamine scaffold led to the identification of 10q, exhibiting notable LOXL2 inhibitory activity with IC50 value of 79.38 nM, superior to the lead compound. In invasive melanoma cells, 10q dose-dependently inhibited proliferation, invasion, migration, and cell-matrix adhesion as well as attenuating focal adhesions (FAs) and stress fibers (SFs) formation. Further mechanism studies revealed that 10q treatment disrupted LOXL2-mediated signaling cascades, as evidenced by decreased phosphorylation of FAK, PI3K, AKT, and mTOR, concomitant with downregulation of Snail 1 and upregulation of the epithelial marker E-cadherin. Collectively, these results indicated that 10q is a novel LOXL2 inhibitor with potent anti-metastasis activity, highlighting its potential as a promising candidate for the intervention of metastatic melanoma.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
While the RNA modification N6-methyladenosine (m6A) is known to influence immune cell function, its specific role in regulating macrophage migration and invasion remains poorly defined. This study aimed to elucidate the function and mechanism of the core m6A methyltransferase METTL3 in the migratory and invasive capacities of macrophages.A macrophage-specific METTL3-knockdown model was established. The functional effects of METTL3 deficiency were systematically evaluated using migration, invasion, phagocytosis, and polarization assays. Subsequent transcriptome sequencing (RNA-seq) and methylated RNA immunoprecipitation-quantitative PCR (MeRIP-qPCR) were employed to identify the key differentially expressed gene, lysyl oxidase-like 2 (LOXL2). This mechanistic link was ultimately confirmed through functional rescue experiments and reconstitution assays.METTL3 deficiency significantly increased the migratory and invasive capacities of macrophages but attenuated their phagocytic activity, promoting a shift toward an M2-like polarization state. Mechanistically, METTL3 knockdown reduced m6A modification at a specific site of LOXL2 mRNA, thereby decreasing its RNA stability and leading to decreased expression. Importantly, this phenotype was validated through functional inhibition assays. Reconstitution of LOXL2 in METTL3-deficient macrophages substantially reversed the enhanced migratory and invasive phenotypes.This study reveals a novel METTL3-m6A-LOXL2 signaling axis that posttranscriptionally fine-tunes macrophage migration and invasion by regulating gene expression. These findings provide a mechanistic explanation for the functional dynamics of macrophage migration and invasion and underscore that m6A modification is a key regulator of innate immune cell behavior.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to the Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
Background: Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a progressive lung disease marked by excessive extracellular matrix (ECM) deposition. Current FDA-approved therapies, such as pirfenidone and nintedanib, offer limited efficacy in halting disease progression. Lysyl oxidase-like 2 (LOXL2) is a key enzyme involved in ECM remodeling and fibrosis. This study investigates Compound #765, a novel indolizine derivative, as a potential LOXL2 inhibitor for IPF treatment. Methods: Compound #765 was synthesized and characterized using spectroscopic methods. Its inhibitory effect on LOXL2 activity was evaluated using LOXL2 enzymatic assays, in vitro fibrosis models with human lung fibroblasts, and in vivo models of pulmonary fibrosis, including bleomycin-treated and TGF-β1-overexpressing transgenic mice. In silico docking studies predicted the binding affinity of Compound #765 to LOXL2. Results: Compound #765 targeted LOXL2 activity and reduced collagen production in lung fibroblasts. In both bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis and TGF-β1-overexpressing murine models, Compound #765 significantly alleviated fibrosis, as indicated by reduced collagen accumulation and inflammatory cell infiltration. The in silico docking studies predicted favorable binding affinity to LOXL2, which was confirmed through in vitro experiments. Importantly, Compound #765 suppressed fibrosis-associated markers in fibroblasts derived from IPF patients, suggesting translational potential. Conclusions: These results demonstrate that Compound #765 functions as a LOXL2 inhibitor with significant anti-fibrotic effects in vitro and in vivo, offering a promising therapeutic approach for IPF and other fibrotic lung diseases.
The excessive accumulation of extracellular matrix (ECM) is a hallmark of renal interstitial fibrosis, its underlying mechanisms are incompletely understood. Here, we identify the E3 ubiquitin ligase Tripartite motif-containing protein 21 (Trim21) as a key regulator of this process. We found that Trim21 is upregulated in the tubular cells of fibrotic kidneys from both chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients and mouse models. Using tubular cell-specific Trim21 knockout mice, we demonstrated that Trim21 induction protects against ECM accumulation and renal fibrosis. Mechanistically, Trim21 binds to the N-terminal domain of Lysyl Oxidase-like 2 (Loxl2), promoting its ubiquitination and degradation, which in turn alleviates ECM deposition. Furthermore, we observed an upregulation of interferon-γ (IFN-γ) and its receptor in tubular cells during fibrosis. IFN-γ treatment increased Trim21 expression, reduced Loxl2 expression and renal fibrosis; critically, this protective effect was abolished in tubular-specific Trim21 knockout mice. In summary, our study defines a protective IFN-γ/Trim21/Loxl2 axis in the kidney, wherein IFN-γ signaling induces Trim21 to target Loxl2 for degradation, thereby mitigating fibrosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Numerous research endeavors have reported altered expression of Scinderin (SCIN) in various cancer types. Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) represent the most prevalent form of genetic variation within the human genome which can have significant functional consequences, including cancer predisposition.This study investigated SNP-induced structural alterations in the SCIN protein and their potential effects on stability and function, using in vitro and in silico approaches. Integrating experimental and computational data provides insight into the role of this variant in tumorigenesis and highlights its potential as a molecular biomarker for cancer diagnosis and prognosis.Out of 1,054 nonsynonymous SNPs (nsSNPs), 11 were consistently predicted to be deleterious. Among them, rs376349889 (R511G) was associated with decreased protein stability, loss of ADP-ribosylation at R511, disrupted ionic interactions, and increased hydrophobicity, all of which may impair SCIN function. Subsequently, genotyping of 200 colorectal cancer and 200 gastric cancer samples for the rs376349889 SNP was performed using High-Resolution Melting (HRM) technique in compared to a matched control group.The findings revealed a considerable difference in the allelic prevalence of the rs376349889 SNP between cancer patients and control samples. Notably, the GG genotype was linked to a higher susceptibility to both gastric and colorectal cancers (p<0.0001). These results suggest that rs376349889 may influence SCIN-related oncogenic mechanisms and could serve as a promising biomarker for identifying or evaluating the risk of gastrointestinal cancers at an early stage.Copyright© 2026 Avicenna Journal of Medical Biotechnology.
The mechanical traction caused by high cross-linking extracellular matrix (ECM) can promote the continuous activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) by yes-associated protein (YAP)-mediated mechanical signal. Therefore, targeted inhibiting the activation of HSCs induced by mechanical traction is the main measure to improve liver fibrosis. The activated HSCs (aHSCs)-targeted drug delivery nanosystem of verteporfin@polyethyleneimine-vitamin A (VP@PSA), which loaded VP a small molecule inhibitor of YAP in the Hippo signaling pathway to regulate mechanical signal transduction was constructed. The particle size of VP@PSA was 167.1 ± 1.5 nm with great stability, and the drug loading of VP was 34.39 ± 2.41% and encapsulation efficiency was 93.28 ± 1.57%. The targeting and therapeutic effect of VP@PSA were verified by immunofluorescence, flow cytometry and competitive inhibition experiments. The biocompatibility was evaluated by hemolysis, pyrogen, vascular stimulation, respiration and behavior. Compared with non-targeted delivery system, VP@PSA showed best targeting ability to aHSCs among different kinds of liver cells. VP@PSA had an excellent therapeutic effect on suppressing the activation of HSCs, reducing ECM deposition and improving liver fibrosis by regulating YAP/ lysyl oxidase like 2/connective tissue growth factor signalin vitroandin vivo. Furthermore, VP@PSA had favorable biological safety and no toxicity to the main organs. The constructed VP@PSA delivery system laid a solid theoretical and experimental foundation for developing clinical targeted drugs for liver fibrosis.© 2026 IOP Publishing Ltd. All rights, including for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies, are reserved.
Previous studies suggest that specific depressive symptoms such as low energy, fatigue, sleep and appetite disturbances are associated with systemic low-grade inflammation. In this study, we investigated associations between an inflammatory symptom profile of depression and proteomic markers spanning inflammatory and metabolic pathways.We analyzed 158 proteins related to inflammation and metabolism using proximity extension assay in blood samples from 165 patients with Major Depressive Disorder (MDD). Severity of inflammatory depressive symptoms was assessed using a composite score summarizing Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9) items related to fatigue and sleep/appetite disturbances. We used partial least squares (PLS), PLS discriminant analysis (PLS-DA) and linear regression models to identify proteins related to inflammatory depressive symptom severity.Out of the 158 proteins, 14 were selected by either PLS or PLS-DA. After false discovery rate correction, proteins identified by PLS or PLS-DA that remained significantly associated with more severe inflammatory depressive symptoms included several immunometabolic biomarkers, namelyinterleukin-6 (IL-6), hepatocyte growth factor, oncostatin M, thrombospondin-4, low affinity immunoglobulin gamma Fc region receptor II-a and intercellular adhesion molecule 1. With the exception of IL-6, none of these markers showed significant associations with the remaining PHQ-9 items that were not classified as inflammatory depressive symptoms.These findings support the growing body of evidence linking inflammatory and metabolic protein alterations to specific depressive symptoms.© 2026 The Authors.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42545892 is a review article
After myocardial infarction (MI), the heart undergoes a reparative process that includes an initial acute inflammatory phase followed by a subsequent reparative phase. The transition between these phases is crucial for cardiac recovery, but the key factors remain unclear. Meteorin-like (Metrnl) promotes anti-inflammatory/reparative macrophage polarization in the myocardium, yet its role in the acute phase post-MI is unknown. We observed that macrophages infiltrating the ischemic myocardium produced elevated levels of Metrnl in both the heart and circulation 4 days post-MI. The absence of Metrnl in Metrnl⁻/⁻ mice altered myocardial healing and remodeling, with an increased presence of macrophages with a more pro-inflammatory phenotype. Conversely, cardiac Metrnl overexpression restored myocardial repair and promoted a shift toward a more anti-inflammatory/reparative macrophage phenotype. Mechanistically, Metrnl regulated macrophage-dependent production of Oncostatin M (Osm), a key cytokine in the early inflammatory phase post-MI that induces cardiomyocyte production of Reg3β. Reg3β, in turn, limits pro-inflammatory macrophage activation and polarization while modulating their trafficking, ultimately influencing the duration and intensity of the pro-inflammatory phase post-MI. Thus, Metrnl plays a crucial role in cardiac repair by modulating the acute phase following myocardial infarction through its regulation of macrophage populations.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42505684 is a review article
Chronic itch poses a significant clinical burden, with activation of the brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) pathway as a hallmark, though its transcriptional control remains unclear. We identify T-box transcription factor 20 (TBX20) as upregulated in skin of atopic dermatitis patients, with increased expression in NPR1+ keratinocytes. ChIP peak calling, ChIP-qPCR and dual-luciferase assays show TBX20 activates the NPR1 promoter. In mice, keratinocyte-specific TBX20 knockout (TBX20fl/fl; K14-Cre) reduces scratching, IL-4 and Oncostatin M levels, basophil markers, and decreases cutaneous NPR1 expression. TBX20 is also expressed in a subset of NPR1+ sensory neurons, and neuron-specific deletion similarly alleviates itch, basophil infiltration, and barrier dysfunction. RNA-seq identifies lipocalin-2 as a downstream effector of the TBX20-NPR1 axis, and its deletion reduces itch. Conversely, AAV-mediated TBX20 rescue exacerbates symptoms. Neuregulin 1 suppresses TBX20, attenuates IL-13-driven NPR1 signalling, and reduces itch. These findings define a TBX20-NPR1 axis as a critical regulator of chronic itch and skin dysfunction.© 2026. The Author(s).
Activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID) is known to contribute to cancer progression, yet its role in immune evasion and tumor microenvironment (TME) associated features in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains unclear. In this study, we show that AID is associated with immune cell infiltration in the TME of HCC and contributes to the activation of the oncostatin M receptor (OSMR)-STAT3 signaling axis. High AID expression correlated with poor prognosis in HCC patients, while genetic ablation of AID inhibited tumor proliferation and enhanced the infiltration of cytotoxic T cells into the TME. Mechanistically, loss of OSMR abolished the oncogenic effects of AID, indicating that OSMR-dependent signaling is required for AID-driven HCC aggressiveness. Moreover, STAT3 deletion attenuated the pro-tumor functions of AID, affirming the pivotal role of STAT3 signaling. Combined inhibition of the AID-OSMR-STAT3 axis significantly suppressed HCC growth and altered the immune landscape in association with increased infiltration of CD4+ T cells, CD8+ T cells, and B cells. These results identify AID as a regulator of immune evasion in HCC via OSMR-STAT3 activation and suggest that coordinated targeting of this pathway could offer a therapeutic strategy to modulate immunosuppression and enhance anti-tumor immunity, with potential implications for improving current immunotherapies in HCC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Precise control of orthodontic tooth movement (OTM) requires a deep understanding of the biological mechanisms underlying alveolar bone remodeling. Although the immune system is known to influence osteoclastogenesis, the functional significance of neutrophils in the noninfectious, sterile inflammatory environment of OTM remains largely unexplored. Here, we aimed to elucidate the mechanisms by which neutrophils contribute to bone resorption during OTM. OTM was induced in mice using a 10-g mesial force. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was performed on periodontal ligament tissues to characterize cellular heterogeneity and intercellular communication. In addition, neutrophil subpopulations and developmental trajectories were analyzed using pseudotime analysis. Finally, the functional role of neutrophils was validated in vivo by systemic depletion using an anti-Ly6G antibody. scRNA-seq identified 11 cell clusters, revealing that neutrophils are a primary source of proinflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor (TNF), interleukin (IL)-1β, and Oncostatin M (OSM). Immunofluorescence analysis confirmed that neutrophils preferentially accumulated on the compression side. CellChat analysis and transcriptomic profiling identified a TNF-TNF receptor 2 (TNFR2) signaling axis directed from neutrophils to macrophages. Subclustering revealed an "Inflammatory-Neu" subset that expands during OTM and expresses CC ligand chemokine family members to recruit macrophages. In vivo, neutrophil depletion significantly attenuated macrophage accumulation on the compression side, resulting in diminished tooth movement distance and reduced osteoclastogenesis. Our findings demonstrate that neutrophils are indispensable upstream regulators of OTM. By maturing into a proinflammatory phenotype, neutrophils coordinate macrophage recruitment and activation via the TNF-TNFR2 axis, thereby driving osteoclastogenesis. This study provides a novel biological framework for understanding the osteoimmunological microenvironment during orthodontic loading, and it also identifies potential targets for controlling tooth movement.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease often associated with corneal ulceration and impaired corneal epithelial wound healing (CEWH), although the underlying cause remains unclear. This study aims to elucidate the pathogenic mechanism of RA-associated delayed CEWH.We integrated analyses of human clinical samples, a murine collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) model, a human corneal epithelial cell (HCEC) culture platform, as well as Olink proteomic and transcriptomic analysis. We characterized RA-related ocular phenotypes, evaluated the effects of IL-1α/IFN-γ on HCECs, and validated interventions using the NLRP3 inflammasome inhibitor MCC950.RA patients exhibited delayed CEWH, reduced tear secretion, and heightened ocular surface inflammation characterized by elevated Oncostatin M (OSM), IL-1α and IFN-γ. OSM alone promoted the proliferation and migration of HCECs and enhanced mitochondrial respiratory capacity. However, these beneficial effects were markedly impaired when OSM-treated HCECs were co-exposed to IL-1α and IFN-γ, an effect accompanied by severe mitochondrial damage, compromised oxidative phosphorylation, and increased NLRP3 inflammasome activity. Notably, pharmacological blockade of NLRP3 inflammasome with MCC950 significantly restored HCEC functions compromised by IL-1α/IFN-γ exposure, with improved mitochondrial ultrastructure and function. Furthermore, topical MCC950 administration accelerated CEWH in the CIA model.Ocular IL-1α/IFN-γ impairs corneal epithelial function by disrupting mitochondrial integrity and amplifying NLRP3-mediated inflammatory cascades, thereby contributing to delayed CEWH in RA patients.
The RAS(ON) multi-selective daraxonrasib (RMC-6236) inhibitor is effective in patients with NSCLC KRAS mutant cancers. Tolerance to daraxonrasib invariably develops by mechanisms that remain unclear. There is no known involvement of the M1C oncogenic protein in daraxonrasib resistance.NSCLC H358 KRAS(G12C), H2122 KRAS(G12C) and patient derived MGH1112 KRAS(G12C) cells with acquired daraxonrasib resistance were investigated for M1C dependence in studies of SHP2, STAT1/3 and NF-κB activation, clonogenicity, and self-renewal capacity.We demonstrate that M1C is induced as a protective response in NSCLC KRAS(G12C) mutant cells treated with daraxonrasib. We report that M1C forms novel cell membrane-associated biomolecular condensates with the SHP2 protein tyrosine phosphatase in driving daraxonrasib resistance. M1C integrates SHP2 activation with induction of (i) oncostatin-m/gp130/STAT3 signaling, and (ii) the NF-κB-mediated epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) pathway. The functional significance of this M1C-driven pathway is supported by the demonstration that targeting STAT3 and NF-κB reverses daraxonrasib resistance. Consistent with M1C dependence, we also show that targeting M1C is effective against daraxonrasib-resistant NSCLC KRAS mutant cell line and tumor models. In contrast, M1C drives sotorasib resistance by STAT1-mediated inflammatory signaling, demonstrating that M1C confers resistance to KRAS(G12C)-selective and RAS(ON) tri-complex inhibitors by noncongruent mechanisms.These findings demonstrate that M1C is required for daraxonrasib tolerance and is a potential target for the treatment of patients with NSCLC KRAS(G12C) mutant tumors refractory to this agent.
Objectives. Thoracic aortic aneurysms (TAAs) are often found in younger individuals and approximately 20% may be associated with heritable thoracic aortic disease (HTAD). There are some data on genomic biomarkers reflecting inflammation and extracellular matrix remodelling in HTAD. However, data that accurately reflect the corresponding protein changes are scarce. Our aim was to quantify proteins by using targeted proteomics in HTAD patients versus healthy controls, to better understand the underlying pathophysiology. Methods. Patients with Loeys-Dietz syndrome (LDS, n = 8), Marfan syndrome (MFS, n = 11), and familial TAA 6, i.e. actin alpha 2 (ACTA2, n = 7) pathogenic variants were recruited at our outpatient clinic. For comparison, blood samples were drawn from 16 healthy controls. Plasma samples were analysed by targeted proteome analysis of 276 proteins using immunoaffinity proteomics. Results. Whereas oncostatin M and pentraxin 3 levels appeared generally higher in HTAD patients, after adjusting for several confounders, significantly higher levels for these markers as well as TNF receptor superfamily member 9 (TNFRSF9), granulysin (GNLY), CD5, vasorin and glycoprotein 1b-α (GP1BA) were only observed in LDS patients compared to healthy controls. Levels of TNFRSF9, GNLY, GP1BA and CD5 correlated positively with Th17 and platelet counts. Conclusions. This discovery study suggests that LDS could represent a particular inflammatory subgroup of HTAD patients potentially reflecting the involvement of Th17 and platelet related mechanisms in the progression of TAA. Larger studies are needed to evaluate if the identified proteins could be used as biomarkers in these patients.
CD30 positivity serves as a critical diagnostic hallmark for anaplastic lymphoma kinase positive anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALK+ ALCL); however, rare cases with partial or complete loss of CD30 expression present diagnostic challenges. We report a unique case with two morphologically and immunophenotypically distinct subpopulations within the same tumor: A typical CD30-positive component and a CD30-negative counterpart. Comparative genetic analysis revealed overlapping but divergent molecular features, including nucleophosmin 1-ALK (NPM1-ALK) fusion, notch receptor 1 mutations, and differential gene amplifications involving MYC proto-oncogene and BCL2-like 1. These findings offer insights into the regulatory mechanisms of CD30 and highlight that loss of CD30 expression alone should not preclude the diagnosis of ALK-positive ALCL, underscoring the importance of integrated histopathological and molecular evaluation in diagnostically challenging cases. Meanwhile, it provides a basis for optimizing the diagnostic process of clinically suspected cases.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Scientific Scholar.
Preterm brain injury (PBI) can lead to severe neurodevelopmental impairment. F-box and WD repeat domain-containing 7 (FBXW7) is a key regulator of neural development. This study evaluated the effect of FBXW7 on nerve regeneration after PBI.A mouse model of PBI and an in vitro model of oxygen-glucose deprivation/reperfusion (OGD/R) in neural stem cells (NSCs) were established. Cognitive and motor functions were assessed using Morris water maze, wire hanging, and cylinder tests. Histopathological changes and apoptosis were evaluated by hematoxylin and eosin and TdT-mediated dUTP Nick-End Labeling, and immunohistochemical staining for myelin basic protein and microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2). Neuroregeneration was analyzed via immunofluorescence (IF) staining for bromodeoxyuridine, doublecortin, and MAP2. FBXW7 and Notch receptor 1 (Notch1) expressions were detected by real-time quantitative PCR and Western blot. The viability, apoptosis and differentiation of NSCs were measured by cell counting kit-8, flow cytometry, and IF/Western blot. Protein interaction, stability, and ubiquitination were examined by co-immunoprecipitation and cycloheximide chase assays.FBXW7 expression was decreased in PBI mice and OGD/R-treated NSCs. Overexpression of FBXW7 significantly alleviated the pathological damage and behavioral impairments after PBI, and also enhanced the nerve regeneration process. Moreover, FBXW7 not only enhanced NSCs survival and suppressed apoptosis following OGD/R, but also actively drove their differentiation toward a neuronal lineage. Mechanistically, FBXW7 promoted the ubiquitination and degradation of Notch1. FBXW7 induced NSCs differentiation following OGD/R and mediated neuroprotection to protect PBI by inhibiting Notch1 signaling.By enhancing neuroregeneration via degradation of Notch1, FBXW7 appears to play a protective role in PBI, which suggests therapeutic targets for PBI treatment that merit further exploration.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Mammalian fertility is dependent upon meiosis, a specialized cell division by which diploid progenitors undergo one round of DNA replication followed by two rounds of chromosomal segregation to produce haploid gametes. The germ line in the testis and ovary undergoes several rounds of mitotic divisions before ultimately transitioning to the meiotic cell cycle. This transition is achieved by replacing the mitotic cell cycle program with the meiotic one. Here, we discuss the molecular players that regulate the transition from mitosis to meiosis. In spermatogenesis, MEIOC, YTHDC2, and RBM46 form an RNA-binding complex that post-transcriptionally represses the mitotic cell cycle program, while in oogenesis, MEIOC inhibits mitotic cycling prior to meiotic initiation. STRA8 and MEIOSIN act as a transcription factor complex to drive meiotic initiation by upregulating genes involved in cell cycle progression and the unique chromosomal events of meiosis in oogenesis and spermatogenesis. These complexes are activated by upstream molecular players, including transcription factors, epigenetic regulators of chromatin structure, and extrinsic signaling factors, that form an intricate and reinforced molecular network to precisely regulate the transition from the mitotic to meiotic cell cycle. Here, we integrate current knowledge of the regulation of meiotic initiation in mammals and highlight key gaps in this regulatory program that remain to be explored.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Stem cell factor (SCF), also known as Kit ligand, is a pleiotropic cytokine that signals through the c-Kit receptor to regulate cellular development, survival, and proliferation. Although SCF is classically recognized for its essential role in hematopoiesis and mast cell biology, c-Kit is also expressed by innate lymphoid cell progenitors (ILCp) and subsets of mature innate lymphoid cells (ILCs), suggesting broader immunoregulatory functions. Group 2 innate lymphoid cells (ILC2s) are critical mediators of type 2 airway inflammation and serve as an important source of type 2 cytokines during allergic responses. We previously demonstrated increased expression of the pro-inflammatory SCF248 isoform in the lungs of mice with chronic allergic inflammation, while elevated soluble SCF levels have also been reported in patients with asthma. In the present study, we further observed that SCF248 is upregulated in the bone marrow during allergic inflammation, suggesting that SCF248 may contribute to both local and systemic regulation of allergic immune responses. To define the role of SCF/c-Kit signaling in ILC2 biology, we first performed transcriptional profiling of SCF-deficient ILC2s, which revealed reduced expression of genes associated with cytokine signaling, activation, and effector function, including Il4, Stat5b, and PI3K-AKT pathway components, consistent with impaired inflammatory responsiveness. Mechanistically, pro-inflammatory and type 2 cytokines induced SCF248 expression in mesenchymal cells in vitro. To define its functional impact, ILC progenitors were cultured on OP9-DL1 stromal cells with upregulated SCF248 expression, which increased expression of ILC2-associated markers and the maturation program, supporting a role for SCF248 in enhancing ILC2 maturation and activation. In vivo validation using tamoxifen-inducible whole-body SCF-deficient mice (SCFfl/fl; UBC-CreERT2) in an Alternaria alternata model of allergic airway inflammation demonstrated that SCF deficiency reduced SCF248 expression, attenuated type 2 cytokine production, diminished lung inflammation, and decreased circulating and pulmonary ILC2 populations. Similarly, SCF248 blockade reduced allergic inflammation and altered bone marrow ILC compartments. Together, these findings identify SCF248 as a regulator of ILC2 maturation and activation, amplifying mucosal type 2 inflammation during allergic airway disease.Copyright © 2026 Asai, Lombardo, Ocadiz-Ruiz, Gu, Rasky, Garcia, Montoya, Montaño, Yagi and Fonseca.
In cartilage-related studies, the existing in vitro cartilage models often fail to simulate the complex pathophysiology involving a hypoxic microenvironment, abnormal intercellular mechanical stress (microstress), and pathological crosstalk between chondrocytes and vascular endothelial cells. he aim of this study was to develop and validate a novel, simplified multi-cell-component cartilage organoid model capable of mimicking these three key OA-related features in vitro, using readily available cell lines.Organoids were constructed using SW1353 chondrocytes and HMEC-1 endothelial cell lines within low-adhesion grid microchambers. A monosodium iodoacetate (MIA)-induced OA model was developed. Histological and immunofluorescence analyses of the organoids were conducted to examine markers of matrix metabolism, cytoskeletal and intercellular microstress, hypoxic microenvironment, and chondrocyte -endothelial crosstalk. The organoid features were compared with those of standard 2D cell cultures and in vivo cartilages.The multi-cell-component organoids successfully recapitulated critical in vivo features. They exhibited MIA-induced F-actin reorganization and PIEZO1 upregulation, developed a hypoxic core with elevated hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF-1α) levels, and formed an endothelial shell that invasively disrupted the chondrocyte core upon MIA treatment. This disruption was accompanied by the activation of vascular endothelial growth factor -NOTCH receptor 1 -delta-like ligand 4 (VEGF -NOTCH1 -DLL4) signaling, mirroring the pathological chondrocyte -endothelial crosstalk. Single-cell-component organoids simulated microstress-related changes but not hypoxia or chondrocyte -endothelial crosstalk.The multi-cell-component cartilage organoids constructed from tumor-derived cell lines using low-adhesion grid microchambers partially simulated intercellular microstress, hypoxic microenvironment, and chondrocyte -endothelial crosstalk, which was similar to that observed in cartilages in vivo. These organoids provide a new strategy for conducting cartilage-related studies in vitro.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Zhu, Li, Zhang, Cheng and Cai.
Keratinocytes are the predominant cell type in the epidermis. The mammalian epidermis is maintained by a pool of self-renewing stem cells that reside primarily in the basal layer of the interfollicular epidermis and within specialized niches of the hair follicle (HF). In HFs, Kit-Kit ligand (Kitl) signaling is important for melanocyte development. Melanocyte stem cells expressing Kitl are maintained in niches composed of HF stem cells or keratinocyte stem cells. We observed that conditional Kitl overexpression prevents hair growth; however, the role of Kit-Kitl signaling in keratinocytes and HF in postnatal and adult skin remains unknown. Here, using genetically modified mice expressing the Kitl transgene under the control of a doxycycline-inducible promoter, we investigated the impact of Kit-Kitl signaling on HF morphogenesis and regenerative cycling in postnatal and adult skin. We observed a reversible but thorough delay in hair growth and regenerative cycling when Kitl induction was initiated at the onset of anagen in both postnatal and adult tissues. Conversely, HF structure or cycling was not affected by Kitl overexpression at catagen. These findings indicate that Kitl signaling in follicular keratinocytes is crucial for HF morphogenesis and regenerative cycling in postnatal and adult mice.Copyright © 2026 Society for Investigative Dermatology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Refinement of in vitro maturation (IVM) protocols is critical for enhancing sheep oocyte production efficiency and supporting genetic improvement in breeding programs. However, the developmental competence of in vitro-matured oocytes remains suboptimal partly because conventional culture systems fail to fully recapitulate the complex paracrine interactions within the ovarian follicular microenvironment. Kit Ligand (KL), a granulosa cell-derived growth factor, plays a pivotal role in mediating oocyte-cumulus cell communication during in vivo maturation, but its functional role and optimal supplementation conditions in sheep IVM systems remain unclear. In this study, we investigated the effects of recombinant KL supplementation during IVM on nuclear maturation, cytoplasmic maturation, intracellular homeostasis, and subsequent embryonic development in sheep oocytes. Supplementation with 30 ng/mL KL significantly increased the first polar body extrusion rate and enhanced cumulus expansion. KL treatment upregulated the expression of cumulus expansion-related genes (PTX3, HAS2, PTGS2, and TNFαIP6) and promoted cortical granule redistribution to the oocyte cortex. In addition, KL reduced intracellular reactive oxygen species levels, decreased the BAX/BCL-2 ratio, increased mitochondrial membrane potential, and improved mitochondrial distribution. Following in vitro fertilization, KL-treated oocytes exhibited higher cleavage and blastocyst formation rates compared with the control group. These findings suggest that KL supplementation improves oocyte developmental competence in sheep, potentially through regulation of cumulus cell activity and maintenance of intracellular homeostasis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Spi-1 proto-oncogene (PU.1) is dysregulated in various immune disorders, including rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Herein, we investigate the role of PU.1 in the clearance and degradation of phagolysosomal cargo by synovial resident macrophages in RA.Collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) was used to establish an RA mouse model. Histological analysis was conducted using haematoxylin and eosin (HE) and safranine O/fast green staining. Macrophage function was determined using flow cytometry and propidium iodide staining assay. Moreover, gene expression was analysed by immunofluorescence, immunohistochemistry, western blot, and reverse transcription-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR). Cytokine release was detected using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).We found that PU.1 was upregulated in response to RA. PU.1 depletion exacerbated synovial dysfunction, accompanied by the pyroptosis of synovial resident macrophages and the accumulation of dying fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) and inhibition of in vivo efferocytosis. Furthermore, PU.1 deficiency suppressed the formation of LC3-II. Additionally, PU.1 depletion decreased expansion of gelsolin (GSN)+CD86+ cells. Moreover, PU.1 transcriptionally inactivated NLR family pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3).Overexpressed PU.1 promoted the proliferation of synovial resident macrophages as well as the clearance of apoptotic FLS in RA. In summary, PU.1-mediated synovial resident macrophage efferocytosis promote tissue repair in RA. Therefore, targeting synovial resident macrophages may a novel strategy for RA.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42335985 is a review article
Conventional type 1 dendritic cells (cDC1) specialize in cross-presentation and interleukin-12 production and are critical for immunity against intracellular pathogens and tumors, but remain rare in vivo , limiting mechanistic and translational studies. Existing bone marrow-derived dendritic cell (BMDC) methods do not achieve highly selective enrichment of cDC1 or scalable production at high purity. Here, we established a novel in vitro culture system for selective generation of CD103+ cDC1 from mouse bone marrow using defined media conditions together with recombinant FLT3L, GM-CSF, and Kit ligand (KitL), termed iDC1. iDC1 cultures enabled scalable generation of an estimated 1.5 x 10 9 CD103+ cDC1 at greater than 95% purity from a single mouse, representing at least a 75-fold increase relative to previous recombinant cytokine-based methods. Phenotypic and transcriptional analyses demonstrated that iDC1 closely align with the CD103+ cDC1 lineage while remaining clearly distinct from macrophage populations. Functionally, iDC1 responded robustly to innate stimulation, produced interleukin-12 and inflammatory chemokines, and efficiently cross-presented cell-associated antigen to CD8+ T cells. Mechanistically, KitL and GM-CSF regulated distinct stages of cDC1 generation, whereas proteomic, phospho-proteomic, and functional analyses demonstrated that GM-CSF suppresses apoptosis and oxidative stress while promoting cDC1 proliferation. iDC1 generation was dependent on the +32 kb Irf8 enhancer required for bona fide cDC1 development, and STAT5-and BRD4-associated regulatory programs were identified as important regulators of efficient iDC1 generation. Together, these findings establish iDC1 cultures as a scalable platform for studying cDC1 biology and developing cDC1-based immunotherapeutic strategies.
Loss of major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-I is a hallmark of prostate cancer (PCa) immune evasion and immunotherapy failure. Here, we identify ZNF263 as a transcriptional repressor that silences MHC-I by recruiting nucleosome-remodeling and deacetylase (NuRD) to the STAT1 promoter, reducing STAT1 and MHC-I expression. Hypoxia enhances this repression through two ZNF263 modifications: phosphorylation-driven phase separation that strengthens NuRD interaction and O-GlcNAcylation at S662 that aids STAT1 promoter binding. O-GlcNAcylation also promotes interaction with protein kinase, DNA‑activated catalytic subunit (PRKDC), amplifying phosphorylation. Interferon‑gamma (IFN‑γ)‑induced MHC-I induction is augmented upon ZNF263 loss. In silico docking identified Viroptic as a Krüppel‑associated box (KRAB) pocket binder disrupting ZNF263-NuRD, derepressing STAT1, and potentiating IFN-γ antitumor immunity in vivo. High ZNF263 correlates with low MHC-I, scarce CD8+ T cells, and poor survival, providing rationale for targeting ZNF263 in PCa immunotherapy.
The present study aimed to investigate the involvement of T‑box transcription factor 15 (TBX15) in the immune evasion by gastric cancer (GC) cells, as well as the molecular pathways that regulate TBX15 upstream and downstream. GC and paracancerous tissues were collected to verify the expression of TBX15, matrix metalloproteinase 14 (MMP14) and methyltransferase‑like 3 (METTL3) using reverse transcription‑quantitative PCR and western blotting. The co‑culture system of GC cell‑tumor‑associated macrophages (TAMs) and mouse forestomach carcinoma (MFC) cell‑CD8+ T cells was constructed. TBX15, MMP14 and METTL3 were highly expressed in GC tissues. Kaplan‑Meier analyses were performed, and high TBX15 expression predicted a poor prognosis for patients with GC. Silencing TBX15 promoted GC cell apoptosis and inhibited tumor development and the activity of proliferation, migration and invasion. TBX15 targeted the MMP14 promoter by using ChIP‑qPCR. Overexpression of MMP14 attenuated the reduction caused by TBX15 silencing. METTL3 targets TBX15 mRNA and regulates the m6A level of TBX15. TBX15 is associated with macrophage and CD8+ T cell infiltration. In the co‑culture system of GC‑TAM and MFC‑CD8+ T cells, TBX15 overexpression alleviated the decrease in M2 polarization and activation of CD8+ T cell antitumor activity caused by METTL3 silencing. However, MMP14 overexpression resulted in TBX15 silence‑induced decreases in M1 macrophage polarization and CD8+ T cell activity. These data suggested that TBX15, correlated with poor prognosis in patients with GC, promotes immune escape in GC cells. TBX15, regulated by m6A methylation, targeted the MMP14 promoter, thereby regulating MMP14 expression. The METTL3/TBX15/MMP14 signaling axis was involved in GC cell development, M2 macrophage polarization and CD8+ T cell antitumor activity activation. These findings provide a fundamental experimental rationale for TBX15 as a potential therapeutic target for GC.
Acquired resistance to osimertinib poses a major challenge in treating EGFR-mutant lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). Here, we demonstrate that shikonin, a natural compound from Lithospermum erythrorhizon, synergizes with osimertinib to overcome this resistance by inducing ferroptosis. In osimertinib-resistant LUAD cells (PC9-OR/H1975-OR), the shikonin-osimertinib combination significantly enhances cytotoxicity and suppresses proliferation while triggering ferroptotic events, including reactive oxygen species accumulation, lipid peroxidation, and iron overload alongside glutathione depletion. RNA-sequencing identifies Hes family BHLH transcription factor 1 (HES1) downregulation as crucial to this process. HES1 knockdown replicates the combination's effects, confirming its key role. Mechanistically, ATF3 is identified as a direct transcriptional target of HES1, with HES1 binding to the ATF3 promoter (-786 to -779 nt) to repress its transcription. The shikonin-osimertinib combination relieves this repression, leading to ATF3-mediated suppression of the ferroptosis regulators SLC7A11 and GPX4. In vivo, this combination potently inhibits tumor growth in xenograft models without observable toxicity. Our study reveals a novel HES1/ATF3 axis governing ferroptosis and proposes shikonin as a promising therapeutic adjuvant to overcome osimertinib resistance in LUAD.
Bone is a primary site for lung cancer metastasis, and T-box transcription factor 15 (Tbx15) is aberrantly expressed in multiple cancers. It aims to investigate the role of Tbx15 in lung cancer bone metastasis and its potential mechanisms. TCGA and cellular analyses revealed elevated Tbx15 lung adenocarcinoma tissues and cells (MLE-12, CMT64, LA795, LLC), while recombinant IL-25 (rIL-25) expression was low in supernatants and lysates. And Pearson analysis showed a negative correlation between Tbx15 and IL-25. The CCK-8 and EdU assays showed that Tbx15 knockdown inhibited LA795 cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. In vivo, simultaneous Tbx15 knockdown and rIL-25 administration promote tumor cell growth and accelerate bone metastasis in mice. Mechanistically, Tbx15 knockdown upregulates IL-25 expression, thereby promoting apoptosis of osteoclasts (OCs) and suppressing bone metastasis. Besides, OCs were treated with rIL-25 and the apoptosis inhibitor Z-VAD-FMK, and found that extracellular IL-25 protein promoted apoptosis of OCs by upregulating major vault protein (MVP) expression. In conclusion, our study demonstrates that knockdown of Tbx15 upregulates IL-25 expression to promote apoptosis of OCs, while exogenous supplementation of IL-25 promotes proliferation and bone metastasis of lung adenocarcinoma cells. The dual role of IL-25 in Tbx15-positive lung adenocarcinoma cells and its potential regulatory mechanism were elucidated.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Peritumoral brain edema (PTBE) is an important prognostic factor in meningiomas and may persist after tumor resection. While clinical and radiological predictors of postoperative PTBE resolution are known, the impact of molecular markers remained unclear. The aim of this study was to investigate the association of Forkhead box C1 (FOXC1) expression, as well as radiological and clinical parameters with postoperative PTBE resolution.We conducted a retrospective single-center study with 75 histopathologically confirmed meningiomas. Pre- and postoperative PTBE volumes were quantified using volumetric MRI-based segmentation. Postoperative PTBE resolution was defined as the relative percentage reduction in PTBE volume compared with preoperative baseline. In addition, preoperative MRI datasets were analyzed for radiological tumor characteristics using 3D Slicer. FOXC1 expression was assessed immunohistochemically. Optimal cut-off values were determined using receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve analysis. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to identify independent predictors of postoperative PTBE resolution.In multivariate analysis, higher FOXC1 expression was independently associated with greater postoperative PTBE resolution (OR: 6.36, 95% CI: 2.06-19.60; p < 0.001). In addition, larger tumor volume was independently associated with lower PTBE resolution (OR = 0.25, 95% CI: 0.07-0.89, p = 0.029).Higher FOXC1 expression was independently associated with greater postoperative PTBE resolution. These findings require validation in larger independent cohorts before clinical implementation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Sinonasal cancers are malignant neoplasms arising from the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses, including squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), adenocarcinoma, and undifferentiated carcinoma. Due to their rarity, comprehensive genomic data remain limited. Treatments include surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy, with ongoing trials investigating agents like cetuximab, cisplatin, and Tazemetostat.We analyzed sinonasal cancer cases from the American Association for Cancer Research (AACR) Project Genomics Evidence Neoplasia Information Exchange (GENIE) database via cBioPortal (v16.1-public, accessed July 22, 2024). Common gene mutations, correlations, and mutual exclusivities were assessed using statistical analyses with false discovery rate correction.Of 2,595 head and neck cancer samples, 122 (4.7%) were sinonasal carcinoma: 70 (57.4%) SCC, 31 (25.4%) undifferentiated carcinoma, and 21 (17.2%) adenocarcinomas. The most frequent mutations were TP53 (tumor protein 53; 40%), PIK3CA (phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase catalytic subunit alpha; 14%), KMT2D (lysine methyltransferase 2D; 11%), and CDKN2A (cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A; 9%). Subtype-specific mutations included IDH2 (isocitrate dehydrogenase; 230%) in undifferentiated carcinoma and FAT1 (15%) in adenocarcinoma. TP53 frequently co-occurred with PRKDC (protein kinase, DNA-activated, catalytic subunit; p = 0.020), while KMT2D co-occurred with PIK3CA ( p = 0.018).TP53, PIK3CA, and KMT2D mutations are prevalent in sinonasal carcinoma, highlighting potential targets for therapy. Tazemetostat, targeting KMT2D-related DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) methylation, and cetuximab, targeting the PIK3CA signaling cascade, may offer therapeutic benefits. Further research on mutation-specific therapies could improve treatment strategies.Thieme. All rights reserved.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC) is the most common primary liver cancer, with high recurrence and metastasis rates, and its molecular mechanisms remain incompletely understood.The cancer genome atlas (TCGA) database was used to obtain LIHC-related information. TNMplot, gene expression profiling interactive analysis (GEPIA), and kaplan-meier plotter were used for differential gene expression analysis, visualization, and assessing the relationship between genes and patient survival. Reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and western blot (WB) were used to detect gene and protein expression levels. Cell transfection was used for gene knockdown and overexpression. Transwell and wound healing assays were used to evaluate cell migration and invasion. The jaspar database was used to predict transcription factor-gene interactions. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and dual-luciferase assays were used to validate transcription factor-gene binding.Never in mitosis gene a related kinase 2 (NEK2) was highly expressed in LIHC, and its high expression potentially had a negative impact on patient survival. NEK2 knockdown reduced the migration and invasion abilities of LIHC cells, decreased the expression of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) markers neural cadherin (N-cadherin) and vimentin, and increased epithelial cadherin (E-cadherin) expression, whereas NEK2 overexpression showed the opposite effects. E2F transcription factor 1 (E2F1) was also highly expressed in LIHC and positively regulated NEK2, exhibiting similar regulatory effects on LIHC cells. Moreover, NEK2 was positively correlated with Wnt/β-catenin marker catenin beta 1 (CTNNB1), as well as Notch signaling markers notch receptor 1 (NOTCH1), jagged canonical notch ligand 1 (JAG1), HES family BHLH transcription factor 1 (HES1), and HES-related family BHLH transcription factor with YRPW motif 1 (HEY1).The E2F1/NEK2 axis promotes the activation of Wnt/β-catenin and Notch signaling pathways and induces EMT to drive malignant behavior of LIHC cells.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Ischemic stroke is a severe medical condition characterized by diminished blood flow to the brain, resulting in a shortage of oxygen and nutrients. During ischemia, neurons surrounding the cerebral infarct initiate macroautophagy. However, the implications of this activation for neuronal cell survival are still debated. The identification of new autophagy modulators could aid in understanding autophagy's role in brain ischemia and lay the groundwork for innovative therapeutic strategies aimed at minimizing brain damage in this life-threatening neurological emergency. In this study, we developed a robust and sensitive screening platform to identify autophagy modulators from a library of bioactive compounds. Selected compounds underwent further in vitro validation, leading to the identification of duloxetine, a Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved drug, as an effective autophagy inhibitor at low-micromolar concentrations. Following its original characterization, the molecule, a serotonin-norepinephrine re-uptake inhibitor (SNRI) family member, was subsequently tested in young and aged mice subjected to photothrombotic stroke. Our results demonstrated that duloxetine significantly reduced infarct size and improved locomotor performance in mice that had undergone a stroke. Similar protective effects were observed in transgenic mice lacking the autophagy gene Atg5 (autophagy related 5) in SLC17A6/Vglut2+ (solute carrier family 17 member 6) excitatory cortical neurons. Finally, we elucidated the underlying mechanism of action that involves duloxetine-mediated inhibition of TRPM2 (transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 2) ion channels. Altogether, our findings suggest that early autophagy inhibition is neuroprotective in stroke, and duloxetine serves as an effective means of achieving this inhibition.Abbreviation: AMPK - AMP-activated protein kinase; ATG5 - autophagy related 5; AVs - autophagic vacuoles; Baf -bafilomycin A1; BBB - blood-brain barrier; BECN1 -beclin 1; CAMK2 -calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase II; cCASP3 -cleaved CASP3; cKO -conditional knockout; CNS -central nervous system; DMPK - drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics; DMSO -dimethyl sulfoxide; DIV - days in vitro; DMEM - Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium; FDA - Food and Drug Administration; FBS -fetal bovine serum; GFP -green fluorescent protein; GFAP -glial fibrillary acidic protein; HIF1A/HIF-1α - hypoxia inducible factor 1 subunit alpha; HMGCR - 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase; IHC - immunohistochemistry; I/R - ischemia-reperfusion; LAMP1 - lysosomal associated membrane protein 1; MAP1LC3B/LC3B -microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MCAO - middle cerebral artery occlusion; MFI -mean fluorescence intensity; MTT - 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5 diphenyl tetrazolium bromide; ND -nutrient deprivation; NPCs -neural precursor cells; NVU -neuro-vascular unit; OGD - oxygen-glucose deprivation; PI - propidium iodide; PIKK - phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-like; PRKDC/DNA-PKcs - protein kinase, DNA-activated, catalytic subunit; SQSTM1/p62 -sequestosome 1; PIK3C3/VPS34 - phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3; PK-hLC3 -pHluorin-mKate2-human LC3; PLP1 - proteolipid protein 1; PT - photothrombotic; ROS -reactive oxygen species; SLC17A6/Vglut2 - solute carrier family 17 member 6; S:N -signal-to-noise; SSMD - strictly standardized mean difference; SNRIs - serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake Inhibitors; TTC - 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride; TEER - transendothelial electrical resistance; TEM - transmission electron microscopy; TRPM2 -transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 2; TBI -traumatic brain injury; ULK1 - unc-51 like autophagy activating ainase 1; V-ATPase - vacuolar-type H+-translocating ATPase.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play critical roles in ocular surface diseases. In our recent study, through microarray analysis, miR-138-5p was identified as one of the most prominent miRNAs expressed in aniridia patients derived primary limbal epithelial cells (pLECs). Although miR-138-5p expression was significantly elevated in aniridia samples, its specific role in the pathogenesis of aniridia-associated keratopathy (AAK) remained unclear. Therefore, the present study focused on exploring the potential functional impact of upregulated miR-138-5p on limbal epithelial stem cell maintenance and function. Cultured pLECs of healthy human donors isolated from corneoscleral rims were transfected with miR-138-5p mimics. The gene and protein expression level of direct target genes of miR138-5p were evaluated. Additionally, cell proliferation, apoptosis, and cell cycle progression was assessed. Overexpression of miR-138-5p significantly downregulated the expression of several target genes, including Cyclin D (CCND1 and CCND3), Hypoxia-Inducible Factor 1-alpha (HIF1A), Forkhead Box C1 (FOXC1), Caspase 3 (CASP3), and Fos-like 1 (FOSL1). Protein levels of Cyclin D1 were also significantly reduced. Additionally, miR-138-5p transfection markedly inhibited cell proliferation and cell cycle progression. Our results demonstrate that miR138-5p can regulate CCND1 expression, and that its overexpression inhibits limbal epithelial cell proliferation and induces cell cycle arrest, suggesting that miR-138-5p acts as a negative regulator in limbal epithelial cells. Therefore, identifying strategies to suppress miR-138-5p expression at the ocular surface in congenital aniridia could have therapeutic potential for slowing the progression of AAK. Nonetheless, further in vivo studies are needed to fully elucidate the mechanistic link between miR-138-5p and AAK pathogenesis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Acute type A aortic dissection (ATAAD) is a life-threatening cardiovascular emergency. A key driver of disease progression is dysfunction of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs), whose loss of contractile phenotype and increased matrix degradation contribute to aortic wall weakening. Aberrant DNA methylation patterns have been observed in thoracic aortic disease and linked to VSMCs dysfunction and extracellular matrix degradation. This study aimed to investigate the change of DNA methylation in ATAAD and the mechanism underlying notch receptor 1 (Notch1) promoter methylation regulating VSMCs transition in phenotype. In this study, ATAAD patients showed higher DNA methylation levels in the ascending aortic wall than control patients. The levels of DNA methyltransferase (DNMT), MMP2, and MMP9 were increased, Notch1, α-SMA, and SM22α were decreased, and the levels of Notch1 promoter methylation were increased in tissue samples from ATAAD patients and cellular models. Overexpression of Notch1 promoted α-SMA and SM22α expressions, inhibited MMP2 and MMP9 expressions, and suppressed cell migration, and invasion, as well as facilitated Notch intracellular domain (NICD) and hes family bHLH transcription factor 1 (Hes1) expressions in VSMCs. Inhibition of DNA methylation in VSMCs can inhibit the levels of the Notch1 promoter methylation and thus promote Notch1 expression exerting similar results as overexpression of Notch1, whereas knockdown Notch1 has the opposite effect. In conclusion, Notch1 gene promoter methylation region regulates ATAAD by phenotypic transformation and functional alteration of VSMCs. These findings identify Notch1 promoter methylation as a pivotal epigenetic switch in ATAAD pathogenesis and suggest its therapeutic and biomarker potential.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Neddylation regulates diverse cellular processes, yet its role in osteoclast-mediated bone resorption is poorly understood. Here, we identify NAE1 (NEDD8 activating enzyme E1 subunit 1)-mediated neddylation as a critical regulator of postmenopausal osteoporosis and osteoclast differentiation through two distinct regulatory mechanisms. Pharmacological inhibition of Nae1 or myeloid-specific genetic ablation of Nae1 attenuated osteoclastogenesis in vitro and ameliorated ovariectomy (OVX)-induced osteoporosis in vivo without impairing osteoblast function. Mechanistically, Nae1 depletion disrupted intracellular iron metabolism, thereby suppressing ferritinophagy initiation in osteoclast precursors. Concurrently, integrated transcriptomics and affinity purification-mass spectrometry revealed ACSL3 as a direct neddylation substrate. Nae1-mediated neddylation modulates monounsaturated fatty acid (MUFA) biosynthesis, regulating the sensitivity of bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) to ferroptosis. This dual regulatory mechanism coordinately governs ferritinophagy initiation in iron metabolism and the sensitivity to ferroptosis mediated by ACSL3 neddylation, thereby critically influencing osteoclastogenesis. Clinically, serum MUFA levels positively correlated with bone mineral density (r = 0.329, p < 0.05). These findings support MLN4924, a clinical-stage NAE inhibitor, as a potential therapeutic strategy for osteoporosis and define an Nae1-ACSL3-MUFA-ferroptosis axis regulating osteoclast metabolism.Abbreviations: 4-HNE: 4-hydroxynonenal; ACP5/TRAP: acid phosphatase, tartrate resistant; ACSL3: acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family member 3; ACSL4: acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family member 4; BGLAP/OCN: bone gamma-carboxyglutamate protein; BMD: bone mineral density; BMDMs: bone marrow-derived macrophages; BV/TV: bone volume per total volume; CHX: cycloheximide; cKO: conditional knockout; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CTSK: cathepsin K; DFO: deferoxamine; MDS: myelodysplastic syndrome; MUFA: monounsaturated fatty acid; NAE1: NEDD8 activating enzyme E1 subunit 1; NCOA4: nuclear receptor coactivator 4; NEDD8: NEDD8 ubiquitin like modifier; NFE2L2: NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2; NFATC1: nuclear factor of activated T cells 1; OC: osteoclast; OVX: ovariectomy; PUFA: polyunsaturated fatty acid; ROS: reactive oxygen species; RUNX2: RUNX family transcription factor 2; SLC40A1: solute carrier family 40 member 1; SLC7A11: solute carrier family 7 member 11; Tb.N: trabecular number; Tb.Sp: trabecular separation; Tb.Th: trabecular thickness; TFRC: transferrin receptor; TNFSF11/RANKL: TNF superfamily member 11; UBE2M: ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 M.
Acetaminophen (APAP)-induced acute liver injury (AILI) is a prevalent clinical liver condition caused mostly by oxidative stress and mitochondrial damage. Dental pulp stem cells (DPSCs) possess antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and immunomodulatory capabilities, demonstrating significant potential in liver diseases. However, during in vitro culture, they are typically maintained under normoxic conditions (21% O2), which is very different from the hypoxic oxygen level that is found in vivo. It remains unclear whether hypoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells (Hyp-DPSCs) exhibit superior therapeutic effects compared to normoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells (Nor-DPSCs). This study demonstrated that 24-h exposure to 1% O2 significantly enhanced HIF1A/HIF-1α expression in DPSCs. It promoted mitophagy through the MYC-HIF1A-BNIP3 pathway, enhancing mitochondrial shape and function while reducing oxidative stress in DPSCs. Furthermore, in vitro and in vivo experiments demonstrated that Hyp-DPSCs were far more potent than Nor-DPSCs in boosting the expression of hepatic antioxidant factors and enhancing macroautophagy/autophagy to reduce AILI. These findings revealed that hypoxia activated mitophagy in DPSCs, enhancing their therapeutic efficacy against AILI and providing a novel strategy for stem cell-based AILI treatment.Abbreviations: AILI: acetaminophen-induced acute liver injury; ANOVA: analysis of variance; APAP: acetaminophen; BAX: BCL2 associated X, apoptosis regulator; BCL2: BCL2 apoptosis regulator; BNIP3: BCL2 interacting protein 3; BNIP3L: BCL2 interacting protein 3 like; CASP3: caspase 3; CAT: catalase; CCK-8: cell counting kit-8; CM: conditioned medium; COX4I1: cytochrome c oxidase subunit 4I1; CPT1A: carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A; CQ: chloroquine; DPSCs: dental pulp stem cells; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; GO: Gene Ontology; GOT1/AST: glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1; GPT/ALT: glutamic - pyruvic transaminase; GPX4: glutathione peroxidase 4; GSH: glutathione; Hyp-DPSCs: hypoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells; H&E: hematoxylin and eosin; HIF1A/HIF-1α: hypoxia inducible factor 1 subunit alpha; HMOX1/HO-1: heme oxygenase 1; HUVECs: human umbilical vein endothelial cells; IF: immunofluorescence; IHC: immunohistochemistry; IL1B/IL-1β: interleukin 1 beta; IL6: interleukin 6; i.p.: intraperitoneally; i.v.: intravenous injection; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MSCs: mesenchymal stem cells; MYC: MYC proto-oncogene, bHLH transcription factor; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; NAPQI: N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone imine; NFE2L2/NRF2: NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2; Nor-DPSCs: normoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells; PRKN/parkin: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; PLIN2: perilipin 2; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PPARA/PPARα: peroxisome proliferator activated receptor alpha; PPARG/PPARγ: peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SEM: standard error of the mean; SOD1: superoxide dismutase 1; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; VDAC1: voltage dependent anion channel 1; WB: western blot.
Leaf senescence aims to degrade cellular components to recover valuable nutrients and reallocate them to other organs1. Once this remobilization is complete, cells undergo a vacuolar-type of programmed cell death2, ultimately leading to the death of the entire organ. But how do cells from a senescing leaf 'know' when to die? If the cell death process per se is initiated too early, remobilization may not be completed, rendering it futile. This suggests the presence of a 'sensing' mechanism that coordinates the remobilization phase with the onset of cell death during leaf senescence. Here, using Arabidopsis thaliana functional stay-green mutants, we show that senescing cells are wired to metabolically dissipate the cytosolic arginine pool, which otherwise represses the progression of leaf senescence. We propose a model in which a senescing cell uses this pool as a proxy for the completion of nitrogen remobilization and to accurately time the subsequent induction of cell death.© 2026. The Author(s).
IFNG (interferon gamma)-activated macrophages contribute to accelerated clearance of platelets and excessive secretion of inflammatory cytokines in immune thrombocytopenia (ITP). In this study, we identified two distinct subpopulations of activated macrophages: phagocytic macrophages (M[IFNG]p), which predominantly exhibit phagocytic activity, and inflammatory macrophages (M[IFNG]i), characterized by their pro-inflammatory capacity. The M(IFNG)p and M(IFNG)i subsets were functionally disturbed in patients with ITP. Chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA) deficiency in macrophages was discovered in ITP and has been reported to induce sustained inflammation. Furthermore, CMA interference enhanced pro-inflammatory function rather than phagocytic activity of macrophages in vitro. In parallel, macrophage-specific conditional lamp2a (lysosome associated membrane protein 2A) knockout mice exhibited expansion and excessive cytokine release of M(IFNG)i. Restoring CMA restrains M(IFNG)i subset and reprograms M(IFNG)p subset via ALDH2 (aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 family member) in ITP. Here, anti-ITGB3/CD61 immune-sensitized splenocytes were transferred into severe combined immunodeficient mice to establish an active murine model of ITP. CMA activation diminished the pro-inflammatory and phagocytic activity of activated macrophages and ameliorated thrombocytopenia in ITP mice. MeRIP-sequencing identified PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homolog) as a crucial activator for LAMP2A, exhibiting decreased m6A methylation and subsequent downregulation, which indicated a potential mechanism underlying CMA deficiency in activated macrophages. In conclusion, restoring CMA restrains the M(IFNG)i subset and reprograms the M(IFNG)p subset via ALDH2 to raise platelet counts in ITP. Targeting CMA in activated primary human macrophages presents a promising therapeutic strategy to rapidly and sustainably increase platelet counts and restore immune balance in ITP.Abbreviation ALDH2: aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 family member; ALKBH5: alkB homolog 5, RNA demethylase; CCL: C-C motif chemokine ligand; CMA: chaperone-mediated autophagy; CSF1/M-CSF: colony stimulating factor 1; CUT&Tag: Cleavage Under Targets and Tagmentation; CXCL: C-X-C motif chemokine ligand; FBS: fetal bovine serum; FCGR/FcγR: Fc gamma receptor; HLA-DR: major histocompatibility complex, class II, DR; IFNG/IFN-γ: interferon gamma; IGF2R: insulin like growth factor 2 receptor; IL: interleukin; ITP: immune thrombocytopenia; LAMP2A: lysosome associated membrane protein 2A; m6A: N6-methyladenosine; MeRIP-seq: methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing; METTL3: methyltransferase 3, N6-adenosine-methyltransferase complex catalytic subunit; MFI: mean fluorescence intensity; mRNA: messenger RNA; NFE2L2/NRF2: NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2; NLRP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; NOS2/iNOS: nitric oxide synthase 2; PBMCs: peripheral blood mononuclear cells; PTEN: phosphatase and tensin homolog; PYCARD: PYD and CARD domain containing; STAT: signal transducer and activator of transcription; Th1: T-helper 1; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; WTAP: WT1 associated protein.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42047332 is a review article
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 30285347
Programmed cell death 2 (PDCD2) is an evolutionarily conserved protein essential for cell viability from yeast to humans. PDCD2 functions as a dedicated chaperone to the 40S ribosomal protein uS5, and loss of PDCD2 function impairs ribosome biogenesis. As cancer cells require a substantial supply of ribosomes to maintain elevated levels of protein synthesis, targeting the protein interaction interface between PDCD2 and uS5 is a promising modality to mitigate ribosome biogenesis. In this study, we used affinity purification assays and structural modeling to identify a stretch of 30 amino acids in the N-terminal region of uS5 that is necessary and sufficient for interaction with PDCD2. Our data also identified a conserved FxxGFG motif in uS5 that is important for association with PDCD2 via hydrophobic interactions. Notably, we developed a sensitive complementation-based biosensor that can monitor PDCD2-uS5 interaction in cell extracts and living human cells. Using this biosensor, we identified an 11-amino acid uS5-derived peptide that inhibits the PDCD2-uS5 interaction and impairs cancer cell viability. Such peptides provide a starting point in the development of peptidomimetic inhibitors capable of modulating ribosome biogenesis via disruption of ribosomal protein-dedicated chaperone complexes.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Feruloyl esterase produced by certain microorganisms can help to break down plant fiber. We investigated the effects of inoculating feruloyl esterase-producing lactic acid bacteria in alfalfa silage on production performance and blood and liver markers of inflammation and oxidative stress in lactating dairy goats. Alfalfa was ensiled for 1 mo without an additive (control; CON), with Limosilactobacillus reuteri YM13 without feruloyl esterase activity (YM13), or with a feruloyl esterase-producing L. reuteri A4-2 (A4-2). Forty-two dairy goats (53 ± 4 DIM; 37.2 ± 2.3 kg BW) were randomly assigned to 1 of the 3 dietary treatments (n = 14/treatment) and fed during 60 d. Silage and composite samples (concentrate + silage) were taken weekly. Jugular vein blood samples were taken on d 20, 40, and 60 before the morning feeding. Dairy goats were milked twice per day, and milk samples were taken on d 58 to 60. Five dairy goats from each group were slaughtered at the end of the experiment, and liver tissue samples were collected for real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) assay. Serum antioxidant activity on d 20, 40, and 60, and production data were analyzed with PROC MIXED (SPSS 21.0, SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL). Biochemical indicators in silage and composite feed; serum cytokine, immunoglobulin, and biochemical indicators; and liver RT-qPCR data in samples harvested on d 60 were analyzed using one-way ANOVA (SPSS 21.0, SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL). Compared with CON and YM13, inoculating with L. reuteri A4-2 led to lower silage pH and NDF assayed with a heat-stable amylase and expressed inclusive of residual ash but greater concentrations of lactic acid and ferulic acid, as well as activities of superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, and total antioxidant capacity. Feeding A4-2 inoculated alfalfa silage did not alter DMI, milk yield, or feed efficiency. Dairy goats fed A4-2 had greater serum total antioxidant activity and lower proinflammatory cytokine concentrations at 60 d. Furthermore, we also observed greater total protein, albumin, and IgM, and lower alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, and lactate dehydrogenase in serum in response to feeding A4-2. Compared with CON and YM13, overall mRNA abundance of the NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2 (NFE2L2) target genes HMOX1, NQO1, SOD2, CAT, GPX1, GPX2, and GSR was greater in the liver of goats fed A4-2. In contrast, relative to CON and YM13 groups, feeding A4-2 resulted in an overall downregulation of KEAP1 and the NF-κB signaling pathway-related genes NFKB1, RELA, NOX4, TNF, and IFNG. Overall, feruloyl esterase-producing lactic acid bacteria used as silage inoculant can confer potential health benefits without affecting production performance. Further studies to determine the specific mechanisms controlling these responses are warranted.© 2026, The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of the American Dairy Science Association®. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
In recent years, insect-derived peptides have attracted attention for their potential biological activities, particularly antioxidant properties. This study assessed the antioxidant activity of two widely consumed edible insects, T. molitor and A. diaperinus larvae, using cell-free and cell-based approaches. Whole lyophilized larvae, digestion products from the oral, gastric, and intestinal phases, as well as the <3 kDa permeate fraction (D-P3) derived from the intestinal digestion phase, were evaluated using biochemical antioxidant assays. Overall, digested samples exhibited higher antioxidant capacity than their undigested counterparts. At the cellular level, treatment of LPS-stimulated, PMA-differentiated THP-1 macrophages with A. diaperinus D-P3 was associated with increased mRNA expression of genes related to antioxidant defense, including NFE2-like bZIP transcription factor 2 (NFE2L2, also known as Nrf2), glutathione-disulfide reductase (GSR), superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1), and catalase (CAT), whereas T. molitor D-P3 preferentially modulated nuclear factor kappa B p50 subunit (NFKB1) and nuclear factor kappa B p65 subunit (RELA). Overall, these findings indicate that gastrointestinal digestion enhances the bioaccessibility of antioxidant components in both edible insect species while revealing species-specific transcriptional responses under in vitro inflammatory conditions. This multilevel assessment provides mechanistic insight into the antioxidant-related biological activity of digestion-derived insect peptides and supports their further investigation as functional ingredients in food and feed systems.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41692973 is a review article
Esophageal cancer (EC) is the eighth most prevalent malignancy worldwide and exhibits the sixth poorest prognosis. Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is the predominant pathological subtype. Ferroptosis, an iron-dependent form of cell death, plays a critical role in cancer progression. Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have emerged as key regulators in the initiation and progression of EC. However, the role of lncRNAs in modulating ferroptosis within EC remains poorly understood. Therefore, this study aimed to identify key ferroptosis-related lncRNAs in ESCC and to investigate the role and mechanism of a specific lncRNA, long intergenic non-protein-coding RNA 92 (LINC00092).Bioinformatics analysis was conducted to identify ferroptosis-related lncRNAs, transcription factors (TFs), and genes associated with ESCC. The expression, function, tumor microenvironment, immunotherapy, and downstream molecular pathways were also determined. The expression levels of LINC00092, MYC-associated zinc finger protein (MAZ), and NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2 (NFE2L2) were detected using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), immunohistochemical analysis, and western blotting. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) was performed to determine the subcellular localization of LINC00092. 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT), colony formation, wound healing, Transwell, and flow cytometry apoptosis assays were performed to determine the phenotypes and functions of loss- and gain-of LINC00092. RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) and luciferase reporter assays were used to evaluate interactions involving LINC00092. The expression of ferroptosis-related proteins was verified by western blotting.LINC00092 was found to be downregulated in ESCC datasets, cell lines, and tissue samples. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that LINC00092 was associated with ferroptosis and negatively correlated with NFE2L2 expression. Further investigations demonstrated that LINC00092 acted as a binder to the TF MAZ, modulating the expression of the ferroptosis-related gene NFE2L2. Overexpression of LINC00092 inhibited ESCC cell progression, whereas its downregulation promoted tumor progression. RIP and luciferase reporter assays confirmed that MAZ was a target of LINC00092, and NFE2L2 was a downstream target of MAZ. Western blot analysis showed that LINC00092 enhanced ferroptosis in ESCC cells. The LINC00092/MAZ/NFE2L2 axis appeared to inhibit cancer progression by promoting ferroptosis through the regulation of NFE2L2 and sequestration of the TF MAZ.LINC00092 exerts tumor-suppressive effects in ESCC cells by inhibiting cancer progression through the LINC00092/MAZ/NFE2L2 axis and promoting ferroptosis. Therefore, LINC00092 may serve as a potential therapeutic target for ESCC.© AME Publishing Company.
Birt-Hogg-Dubé syndrome (BHDS) is a rare autosomal dominant disorder caused by germline pathogenic variations in the FLCN gene. It is characterized by cutaneous fibrofolliculomas, pulmonary cysts with risk of pneumothorax, and an increased risk of renal neoplasms. Salivary gland involvement, particularly parotid oncocytomas, is uncommon and may represent an underrecognized manifestation. This study evaluates the immunohistochemical (IHC) expression of folliculin (FLCN) and glycoprotein non-metastatic melanoma protein B (GPNMB) in parotid oncocytomas to assess their potential utility in identifying BHDS-associated lesions.A multicenter retrospective study was performed on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded specimens, including BHDS-associated parotid oncocytomas, non-syndromic parotid oncocytomas, and BHDS-associated hybrid oncocytic/chromophobe renal tumors (HOCTs) as controls. IHC staining for FLCN and GPNMB was analyzed based on intensity, localization, and distribution. Statistical analysis was performed using chi-square testing.BHDS-associated parotid oncocytomas occurred in younger patients (n = 4, mean age: 53.7 years) compared to non-syndromic oncocytomas (n = 10; mean age: 72.5 years). Histologically, all syndromic cases demonstrated prominent cytoplasmic clearing and vacuolization on hematoxylin-eosin (H&E) staining, a feature not observed in non-syndromic counterparts (p ≤ 0.05). FLCN expression was variable in BHDS-associated parotid oncocytomas, showing patchy nuclear and cytoplasmic staining without statistically significant differences between syndromic and non-syndromic groups (p ≥ 0.077). In contrast, GPNMB exhibited strong, diffuse granular cytoplasmic expression in both BHDS-associated renal tumor controls, and parotid oncocytomas, while non-syndromic parotid oncocytomas lacked this pattern (p ≤ 0.05).Parotid oncocytomas in BHDS demonstrate distinctive clinicopathologic features, including younger patient age, cytoplasmic clearing, and a characteristic GPNMB-positive immunophenotype. These findings distinguish them from sporadic parotid oncocytomas and support the use of GPNMB as a potential adjunct marker to raise suspicion for BHDS. Recognition of this association is clinically significant, as patients with BHDS have an estimated 15-30% risk of developing renal malignancies, including chromophobe renal cell carcinoma and clear cell renal cell carcinoma, underscoring the importance of early diagnosis and appropriate surveillance.© 2026. The Author(s).
Birt-Hogg-Dubé (BHD) syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder caused by folliculin (FLCN) gene mutations, with ethnically heterogeneous mutational spectra. Current management is primarily supportive and lacks curative therapies.This study aimed to characterize the clinical features and genetic variants in two distinct Chinese families with BHD syndrome and to preliminarily explore the feasibility of an mRNA-based protein replacement approach.A family-based prospective cohort study was conducted to identify FLCN mutations in two BHD families carrying rare FLCN variants enrolled in 2023.Whole-exome sequencing (WES) identified candidate mutations in probands, which were validated by Sanger sequencing (p.W376R and p.Q44*). Structural/functional impacts of p.W376R were analyzed via bioinformatics and qPCR. HEK293T cells were transfected with empty vector, wild-type FLCN, or mutant plasmids (p.W376R and p.Q44*), followed by co-transfection with or without synthetic FLCN mRNA. FLCN expression and mTORC1 signaling were assessed.Affected members in both families predominantly presented with respiratory symptoms, lacking typical skin lesions and kidney tumors. WES identified the FLCN variants p.W376R (previously classified as a Variant of Uncertain Significance, VUS) and a novel nonsense mutation p.Q44*. Genotype-phenotype co-segregation was confirmed for p.W376R. In vitro analyses demonstrated that both mutations reduced FLCN protein expression, leading to mTORC1 hyperactivation. Exogenous FLCN mRNA delivery rescued functional protein expression and reversed mTORC1 dysregulation.We provide co-segregation and functional evidence supporting the reclassification of the FLCN p.W376R variant as pathogenic according to ACMG guidelines and report a novel pathogenic mutation, p.Q44*, expanding the known FLCN mutational spectrum. Importantly, FLCN mRNA supplementation restored FLCN expression in vitro, providing preliminary evidence for mRNA-based therapeutic strategies in BHD syndrome.
Birt-Hogg-Dubé (BHD) syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder caused by germline inactivation of the folliculin gene (FLCN). Approximately 25% of BHD syndrome patients are diagnosed with renal tumors, which can be multifocal and/or bilateral. These tumors have been reported to span a broad histologic spectrum; however, the majority exhibit a distinctive histology characterized by intermingled cytologic features similar to that seen in oncocytoma and chromophobe renal cell carcinoma. Accordingly, such tumors were previously termed 'hybrid oncocytic chromophobe tumor' (HOCT). To date, most studies have characterized tumors arising in BHD syndrome patients without molecular confirmation of FLCN biallelic inactivation; accordingly, the clinicopathologic characterization of molecularly confirmed FLCN biallelic inactivated tumors remains limited. This study evaluates a multi-institutional cohort of 18 renal tumors from different individuals, including integrated histologic, immunohistochemical, and targeted next-generation sequencing analyses. While all patients exhibited clinical characteristics raising suspicion for BHD syndrome, germline status was not available in 5 patients. Nevertheless, molecular analysis demonstrated findings supportive of FLCN biallelic inactivation in all patients, and there were no other candidate driver alterations or recurrent molecular findings. Histologically, most tumors showed 'conventional' histology consisting of solid or nested growth with a characteristic mosaic population of eosinophilic and clear cells and low-grade nuclear features, including frequent perinuclear halos and binucleation. Two cases showed 'non-conventional' histology including tubulocystic and tubulopapillary architecture. Immunohistochemistry revealed consistent GPNMB expression and a distinctive mosaic staining pattern for KRT7, L1CAM, and GATA3, aiding distinction from other eosinophilic renal neoplasms. Follow-up was available for 17 patients (median 37 months, range 1-110 months). Both patients with non-conventional morphology demonstrated advanced stage at presentation, including one with metastatic disease. Collectively, these findings define one of the largest molecularly-confirmed cohorts of FLCN biallelic inactivated tumors to date and support recognition of FLCN-driven tumors as a distinct, molecularly defined entity.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
The 9th Birt-Hogg-Dubé (BHD) International Symposium convened virtually in March 2026. The meeting attracted more than 100 participants internationally and highlighted recent findings in a variety of areas, including genetic insight and molecular understanding of BHD syndrome, also known as the Hornstein-Knickenberg syndrome, structure and function of the tumor suppressor Folliculin (FLCN), therapeutic and clinical advances, as well as patient experiences living with this disease.Copyright © 2026.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) is emerging as a leading cause of chronic liver disease. MTOR (mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase) complex 1 (MTORC1) is a potential therapeutic target, whereas suppression of total MTORC1 activity can lead to unwanted effects. Here, we found that byakangelicin (Bya), a natural compound, selectively inhibited MTORC1-mediated phosphorylation of TFEB (transcription factor EB), without affecting canonical MTORC1 substrates. Knockout of hepatic Tfeb blocked the alleviation effects of Bya on hepatic steatosis, inflammation, insulin resistance, and fibrosis in mice, while reintroduction of TFEB restored these effects. We identified Bya directly bound to MET370 and PHE552 of FLCN (folliculin), suppressing the function of the FLCN-FNIP1 (folliculin interacting protein 1)/FNIP2 complex, which in turn inhibited MTORC1-mediated cytoplasmic sequestration of TFEB. Mutation of FLCN (M370A and F552A) in the liver abolished Bya-induced protection against MASH. Thus, Bya is a promising therapeutic natural compound for MASH, and selective inhibition of MTORC1 is a potential approach to treat this disease.Abbreviations: aa, amino acids; AAV, adeno-associated virus; Bio, biotin; Bio-Bya, biotin-conjugated Bya; BSA, bovine serum albumin; BW, body weight; Bya, byakangelicin; CETSA, cellular thermal shift assay; CHIP-atlas, chromatin immunoprecipitation atlas; Cmax, maximum concentration; CQ, chloroquine; DARTS; drug affinity responsive target stability assay; EIF4EBP1/4E-BP1, eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; FBS, fetal bovine serum; FDA, food and drug administration; FIMO-JASPAR, find individual motif occurrences-JASPAR; FLCN, folliculin; FNIP1, folliculin interacting protein 1; GAP, GTPase-activating protein; GOT1/AST, glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1; GPT/ALT, glutamic-pyruvic transaminase; GTRD, gene transcription regulatory database; GTT, glucose tolerance test; H&E, hematoxylin and eosin; Hbonds, hydrogen bonds; HFD, high-fat diet; HFHC, high-fat and high-cholesterol; HOMA-IR, homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance; HSCs, hepatic stellate cells; IP, immunoprecipitation; ITT, insulin tolerance test; KD, dissociation constant; KEGG, kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes; KPBS, potassium phosphate-buffered saline; LC-MS/MS, liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry; LW/BW, liver-to-body weight ratio; MAP1LC3/LC3, microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MASH, metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis; MASLD, metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease; MCD, methionine and choline deficient; MST, microscale thermophoresis assay; MTOR, mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MTORC1, MTOR complex 1; ND, normal diet; NFKB/NF-κB, nuclear factor kappa B; NFKBIA/IKBA, NFKB inhibitor alpha; OP, oleate acid and palmitate acid; PBS, phosphate-buffered saline; PCA, principal component analysis; qRT-PCR, real-time quantitative PCR; RELA/p65, RELA proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; Res, resmetirom; Rg, radius of gyration; RMSD, root-mean-square deviation; RMSF, root-mean-square fluctuation; RPS3, ribosomal protein S3; RPS6KB1/S6K1, ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1; RRAGC, ras related GTP binding C; SASA, solvent-accessible surface area; SNRPD2, small nuclear ribonucleoprotein D2 polypeptide; SQSTM1/p62, sequestosome 1; T1/2, half-life; TFE3, transcription factor binding to IGHM enhancer 3; TFEB, transcription factor EB; TMEM192, transmembrane protein 192; VIM, vimentin; WT, wild-type.
Primary cilia sense laminar flow through physical deflection, yet how this mechanical cue is translated into signaling regulation remains unclear. Here, we demonstrate that flow-induced ciliary bending promotes the accumulation of GSK3β within cilia, leading to repression of Sonic Hedgehog (Shh) signaling. This response requires the tumor suppressor folliculin (FLCN). Loss of GSK3β results in ligand-independent ciliary accumulation of Smoothened (Smo) and aberrant Shh signaling. Mechanistically, GSK3β phosphorylates Smo at two sites in its C-terminal intracellular domain, and mutations at these sites enhance Smo retention within cilia. Shh stimulation induces inhibitory phosphorylation of GSK3β at T390, thereby relieving its negative regulation of Shh signaling. Together, these findings identify GSK3β as a mechanosensitive regulator that couples flow-induced ciliary bending to Shh pathway activity through control of Smo ciliary localization.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
As the mechanism of myocardial injury caused by fluoride is still unclear, the study is to investigate whether the effects of fluorosis on heart involve changes in lysosomal biogenesis and autophagic flux.Electrocardiogram (ECG) was detected in population in endemic fluorosis area and formation of myocardial fibrosis by Masson staining in rats. Aspartate aminotransferase (AST) activity and apoptosis rate were detected by biochemical methods; protein or mRNA levels of folliculin-interacting protein (FNIP1), mammalian rapamycin target protein (mTOR), transcription factor EB (TFEB), lysosome-associated membrane protein 2 (LAMP2), cathepsin D (CTSD), microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 (LC3) and P62 by Western blotting or real-time PCR or immunofluorescence analysis; pH value of acidic lysosomes by fluorescent probe; autophagy flux by transfecting adenovirus vector; autophagosomes in cells by transmission electron microscopy; FNIP1 overexpression transfected with the related lentivirus into H9c2 cells.The abnormal ECG, raised serum fluoride level and AST activity in patients with dental fluorosis were observed. In rat myocardial tissues or H9c2 cells exposed to fluoride, the serum AST activity and collagen fibers between myocardial cells were increased; the expressions of FNIP1, TFEB nuclear translocation, LAMP2 and CTSD obviously decreased, and p-mTOR, P62 and ratio of LC3II/I raised; the degradation of autophagic lysosomes declined, pH values and apoptosis increased. Significantly, overexpression of FNIP1 via inhibition of mTOR/TFEB pathway in vitro reversed the disorder of lysosomal biogenesis and the block of autophagic flux induced by fluoride.Fluoride exposure can induce myocardial damage and alterations in lysosomes biosynthesis and autophagic flux in myocardial cells, in which FNIP1 might be considered as one of the key regulatory factors involved in the mechanism.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Pseudouridylation, the enzymatic isomerization of uridine to pseudouridine, is a widespread posttranscriptional RNA modification that contributes to RNA stability and regulation of gene expression. The PUS7 gene encodes pseudouridine synthase 7 (PUS7), and its biallelic pathogenic variants have been associated with a syndromic neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by intellectual disability, microcephaly, behavioral abnormalities, growth retardation, and facial dysmorphism. Recent data indicate that PUS7 interacts with SIRT1, a key regulator of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway, suggesting that PUS7 dysfunction may indirectly influence odontogenesis.We report a boy patient born to consanguineous parents, in whom exome sequencing identified a novel homozygous truncating variant in PUS7 (NM_019042.5): c.1097_1098del p.(Leu366GLnfs*7). Clinical assessment revealed neurodevelopmental delay, facial dysmorphism, and dental anomalies. At 28 months of age, the mandibular primary lateral incisors (72 and 82) were absent, whereas the mandibular central incisors exhibited a conical morphology.Although dental anomalies have been reported in PUS7-related disorders, the abnormalities may be overlooked in children with neuromotor delay. Conical teeth appear to be a more distinctive and clinically recognizable feature, as observed in our patient. Further studies are needed to clarify the role of PUS7 variants in dental development and genotype-phenotype correlations.© 2026 S. Karger AG, Basel.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is characterized by oxidative stress (OS). This study reveals a novel epigenetic mechanism linking lysine acetyltransferase 5 (KAT5) and thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1) in PCOS pathogenesis. A meta-analysis of 50 clinical studies demonstrated elevated systemic oxidative markers (total oxidant status, nitric oxide, malondialdehyde) and reduced paraoxonase-1 levels in PCOS patients, alongside compromised total antioxidant capacity in follicular fluid. Bioinformatic analysis identified TSP-1 as a key downregulated gene in PCOS, and the hTFtarget database predicted KAT5 as an upstream regulator of TSP-1. In vitro, H₂O₂-induced oxidative stress in KGN granulosa cells suppressed TSP-1, KAT5, and H2AK5ac levels, which were restored by N-acetylcysteine (NAC). Mechanistically, KAT5 was found to regulate TSP-1 expression via H2AK5 acetylation at its promoter. Knockdown of KAT5 exacerbated oxidative stress, apoptosis, and senescence, while TSP-1 overexpression counteracted these effects. In a letrozole-induced PCOS rat model, ovarian tissues exhibited decreased H2AK5 acetylation, reduced KAT5 and TSP-1 expression, and impaired redox homeostasis. Interventions with N-acetylcysteine or TSP-1 ameliorated ovarian pathological changes, hormonal imbalances, oxidative stress, apoptosis, and cellular senescence. Collectively, these findings establish the KAT5-TSP-1 axis as a critical regulator of ovarian redox homeostasis, unveiling a novel epigenetic mechanism and proposing a dual-target therapeutic strategy for PCOS.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society for Reproductive Investigation.
Lysine acetyltransferase 5 (KAT5) plays a critical role in epigenetic regulation and is closely associated with the progression of various cancers, particularly hepatocellular carcinoma. However, convenient and portable methods for monitoring KAT5 activity remain limited. Herein, we report a coordination-regulated colorimetric sensing platform based on the localized surface plasmon resonance of gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) for KAT5 activity detection. In this strategy, Zn2+ coordinates with ethylenediamine (en) to form Zn(en)22+ complexes, which induce AuNPs aggregation and a distinct plasmonic color change. In the presence of coenzyme A (CoA), generated during the KAT5-catalyzed acetylation reaction, Zn2+ preferentially binds to thiol-containing CoA, suppressing Zn(en)22+ formation and inhibiting AuNPs aggregation. As a result, KAT5 activity is indirectly converted into a measurable colorimetric signal with a detection limit of 1.9 pg/mL (3σ/slope). To enable portable analysis, smartphone-based image processing was integrated, using the blue-to-red (B/R) ratio for quantification. The platform was further applied to investigate histone acetylation in cancer cells and circulating tumor cell (CTCs)-like models during epithelial-mesenchymal transition, revealing dynamic changes in KAT5 activity. This coordination-mediated AuNPs strategy provides a simple and portable tool for monitoring cancer-related enzymatic activity, with potential applications in liquid biopsy, early cancer diagnosis, and precision medicine.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Hyperuricemia closely correlates with obesity, yet high uric acid (UA) is largely viewed as a consequence or biomarker of obesity rather than a causal driver. Integrating human clinical analyses with animal studies, we redefine UA as a liver-derived endocrine regulator that drives obesity by modulating gut ecology. UA remodels the gut microbiota, selectively depleting Lactobacillus johnsonii by disrupting peptidoglycan synthesis. This depletion reduces microbial phenyllactic acid (PLA)-a metabolite produced by L. johnsonii lactate dehydrogenase that we identify as an endogenous suppressor of intestinal peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα) signaling. Consequently, PPARα disinhibition upregulates fatty acid transporters, accelerating lipid absorption and promoting obesity. Leveraging human genetic data, we pinpoint lysine acetyltransferase 5 (TIP60) as a master regulator of hepatic UA production. Hepatic TIP60 ablation lowers UA, restoring the L. johnsonii-PLA axis and conferring obesity resistance. These findings establish a UA-driven liver-gut axis and nominate TIP60 inhibition as a dual-target therapy for obesity and hyperuricemia.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Pathogenic variants in PUS7, encoding pseudouridine synthase 7, cause a rare neurodevelopmental disorder marked by intellectual disability, microcephaly, short stature, and behavioral disturbances. Since the first report in 2018, only 16 patients have been described. We report a novel case with a homozygous pathogenic PUS7 variant and present an updated review of all cases published between 2018 and 2025. Across 17 cases, the most frequent features were moderate/severe intellectual disability, delayed/absent speech, aggressive behavior, microcephaly, mild facial dysmorphisms, motor delay, and short stature. These features are common but non-specific, with the exception of aggressiveness that manifests at a very early age. Less common but more peculiar findings included sensorineural hearing loss, autistic traits, self-injurious behavior, and motor stereotypies. The combination of core features with these more specific symptoms should prompt suspicion of a PUS7-related disorder. We recommend looking for PUS7 pathological variants when performing whole exome sequencing in children with this constellation of neurodevelopmental and behavioral signs.© 2026 The Author(s). American Journal of Medical Genetics Part A published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42190315 is a review article
Hepatic ischemia/reperfusion injury (IRI) is a major complication occurring in hemorrhagic shock, liver resection, and transplantation. Big mitogen-activated kinase-1 (BMK1), a member of the mitogen-activated protein kinases family, is essential for regulating endothelial cell integrity and organ development.We explored the putative role of BMK1 in human liver transplant recipients and in a murine model of partial warm liver IRI.Liver biopsies from adult transplant patients (n = 60) revealed that increased intrahepatic BMK1 expression was associated with well-preserved histology and improved graft function. In mice, the ischemia insult (90 min) induced hepatocellular BMK1 expression, peaking at 6 h of reperfusion. Inhibiting intrahepatic BMK1 (siRNA/chemically) made livers more vulnerable to IR stress, as evidenced by elevated serum alanine aminotransferase levels, damaged hepatic architecture, increased necrosis, and inflammation. Conversely, BMK1-overexpression protected livers from IR stress in a Krüppel-like factor 4 (KLF4)-dependent manner. Further in vivo and in vitro experiments confirmed that BMK1 overexpression upregulated hepatic yes-associated protein (YAP) mRNA/protein levels and promoted YAP dephosphorylation, whereas YAP silencing abrogated the protective effects of BMK1. The hypoxia-reoxygenation in vitro assay indicated that hepatocellular BMK1 regulated YAP function via itchy E3 ubiquitin protein ligase-related ubiquitination to large tumor suppressor homolog 1. Hypoxia-reoxygenation stress in BMK1-overexpressed hepatocytes resulted in increased intracellular itchy E3 ubiquitin protein ligase and decreased phosphorylated large tumor suppressor homolog 1, whereas no change in the phosphorylation level of mammalian sterile 20-like protein kinase-1. Furthermore, dual hepatocyte immunofluorescence staining revealed that BMK1 relied on the nuclear YAP-KLF4 cooperation, as hepatic deficiency of either BMK1, YAP, or KLF4 enhanced the severity of hepatic IRI.This study documents the crucial role/underlying mechanism of BMK1 signaling and points to a novel target to minimize hepatocellular dysfunction in IR-stressed liver transplantation.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
Endometrial cancer (EC) is one of the most prevalent cancers affecting the female reproductive system and originates from the uterine epithelium, posing a significant health burden to postmenopausal women. As an E3 ubiquitin ligase, itchy E3 ubiquitin protein ligase (ITCH) plays a key role in the progression of multiple kinds of solid cancers, but its function in EC remains unclear. This work aims to explore the roles of ITCH during the carcinogenesis of EC.The messenger RNA (mRNA) level of ITCH in 47 paired EC tissue and adjacent non-tumor controls was examined by quantitative polymerase chain reaction. The protein level of ITCH in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded EC tissue and adjacent non-tumor controls from 47 patients with EC was detected by immunohistochemistry. Data on the RNA levels of ITCH and forkhead box P1 (FOXP1), along with prognostic information for 541 patients with EC, were obtained from the Human Protein Atlas database. A chromatin immunoprecipitation assay was employed to investigate the interaction between FOXP1 and the promoter of the KRAS proto-oncogene GTPase (KRAS).Both ITCH mRNA and protein levels are upregulated in EC tissues. Patients with lower ITCH expression exhibit prolonged overall survival. In EC tissue samples, ITCH protein level negatively correlates with the FOXP1 protein level. ITCH interacts with FOXP1 in EC cells and promotes its ubiquitination and subsequent degradation. FOXP1 inhibits KRAS expression in EC cells by binding to its promoter region. ITCH overexpression suppresses the FOXP1-KRAS axis, leading to increased proliferation and reduced apoptosis of EC cells.ITCH functions as an oncogene in EC, promoting carcinogenesis by inducing FOXP1 degradation and upregulating KRAS expression.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Scientific Scholar.
Pseudouridine (Ψ) is an abundant post-transcriptional modification found across all classes of RNA. It is widely speculated that Ψ inclusion in messenger RNAs (mRNAs) might provide an avenue for cells to control gene expression post-transcriptionally. Here we demonstrate that one of the principal mRNA pseudouridylating enzymes, pseudouridine synthase 7 (PUS7), exhibits a stress-induced accumulation in the cytoplasm of yeast and human epithelial lung cells. Stress-induced and cytoplasmic localization of PUS7 promotes Ψ-incorporation into hundreds of mRNA targets. In contrast, the modification status of tRNA sites targeted by PUS7 (Ψ13 and Ψ35) is unperturbed. Furthermore, engineered PUS7 cytoplasmic localization increases cellular fitness under reactive oxygen species (ROS) and divalent metal ion stress. Quantitative proteomics reveal a reshaping of the proteome upon PUS7 relocalization under stress. Collectively, our data demonstrate that PUS7 localization alters mRNA pseudouridylation patterns, reshapes the proteome, and influences cellular fitness.© 2026. The Author(s).
The regulator of G-protein signaling 2 (RGS2) plays a key role during pregnancy, whose dysregulation is closely associated with the progression of gestational disorders such as preeclampsia (PE). Therefore, investigating the downstream mechanisms regarding to RGS2-mediated biological events in trophoblasts would provide a better understanding of maintenance and progression of pregnancy. The present study describes the roles and underlying mechanisms of a regulation loop between RGS2 and the Hippo pathway in human trophoblasts, and additionally clarify that RGS2 independently mediates Connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) protein degradation by promoting its ubiquitination. At the molecular level, the ectopic expression of RGS2 deactivates the Hippo signaling but destabilizes CTGF by the Dual-specificity phosphatase 1(DUSP1)-Itchy E3 ubiquitin protein ligase (ITCH)-mediated ubiquitination of CTGF. Reciprocally, as a transcriptional co-activator, TAZ transactivates RGS2 through binding to and activating CREB. Consistently, the results could be verified in transgenic mouse placentas. Our results therefore identify the critical role of the RGS2-Hippo loop in regulating physiological function of trophoblasts during gestation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42107008 is a review article
Lipophagy, a selective form of macroautophagy/autophagy, degrades lipid droplets (LDs) to provide energy and is implicated in metabolic disorders. The molecular mechanism underlying lipophagy induction remains incompletely understood. This study explored the role of SETDB1 in starvation-induced autophagy and lipophagy. We demonstrate that SETDB1 deficiency exacerbates starvation-induced hepatic lipid accumulation by inhibiting lipophagy. Mechanistically, starvation promotes ATM-mediated phosphorylation of SETDB1, which enhances its interaction with and methylation of the RNA helicase DDX5. In SETDB1-knockout hepatocytes, hypomethylation of DDX5 facilitates the formation of the DDX5-METTL3-METTL14 complex, increasing m6A modification of BECN1 and TFEB mRNAs. This modification promoted YTHDF2-mediated decay of these transcripts, thereby inhibiting starvation-induced autophagy and lipophagy. Furthermore, administration of the SETDB1 activator (R, R)-59 significantly enhances lipophagy and attenuates starvation-induced hepatic steatosis. Collectively, our findings reveal a novel pathway in which SETDB1 deficiency drives m6A-mediated mRNA degradation to suppress lipophagy, thereby contributing to hepatic steatosis.Abbreviations: AA free: amino acid deprivation; ATG14: autophagy related 14; ATG5: autophagy related 5; ATG7: autophagy related 7; ATM: ATM serine/threonine kinase; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; DDX5: DEAD-box helicase 5; FASN: fatty acid synthase; LAMP1: lysosome associated membrane protein 1; LAMP2A: lysosome associated membrane protein 2A; LIPE/HSL: lipase E, hormone sensitive type; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MAP3K5/ASK1: mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 5; METTL3: methyltransferase 3, N6-adenosine-methyltransferase complex catalytic subunit; METTL14: methyltransferase 14, N6-adenosine-methyltransferase non-catalytic subunit; MGLL/MGL: monoglyceride lipase; OA: oleic acid; OSBPL8/ORP8: oxysterol binding protein like 8; PLIN2: perilipin 2; PNPLA2/ATGL: patatin like domain 2, triacylglycerol lipase; SETDB1: SET domain bifurcated histone lysine methyltransferase 1; TFEB: transcription factor EB; TP53/p53: tumor protein p53; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; YTHDF2: YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA binding protein F2.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41992985 is a review article
The early identification of patients with sepsis among those presenting with suspected infection in the emergency department (ED) remains challenging. Delta-like canonical Notch ligand-1 (DLL-1), a Notch pathway ligand involved in immune and endothelial signaling, has been shown to reflect disease severity and outcomes in ICU-based sepsis cohorts. Its value for early risk stratification at ED presentation is less well defined.We analyzed DLL-1 concentrations in serum samples from a prospectively enrolled ED cohort of adults presenting with clinically suspected acute infection. Blood samples were obtained during the initial clinical assessment. Sepsis was defined according to Sepsis-3 criteria and adjudicated by an expert panel, including evaluation of organ dysfunction within 72 h after presentation. DLL-1 concentrations were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and diagnostic performance was assessed using AUROC analysis.Among 300 enrolled patients, 74 (24.7%) were classified as having sepsis. DLL-1 concentrations were significantly higher in patients with sepsis than in those without sepsis (median 11,454 vs. 8,085 pg/mL; p < 0.001). DLL-1 demonstrated moderate discriminatory performance for sepsis at ED presentation (AUROC 0.69, 95% CI 0.62-0.76). Performance was lower than that of procalcitonin and NEWS2 but comparable to C-reactive protein and lactate. DLL-1 showed a moderate correlation with SOFA score. Importantly, correlations with CRP and white blood cell count were nonsignificant.When measured at ED presentation, DLL-1 concentrations are elevated in patients with sepsis but showed only moderate diagnostic performance. These findings are consistent with earlier disease stages and lower degrees of organ dysfunction compared with ICU populations. DLL-1 may offer complementary host-response information beyond established biomarkers, but does not support stand-alone use for early sepsis diagnosis and warrants further evaluation within multimodal risk stratification strategies.DRKS00017395.© 2026. The Author(s).
BACKGROUND: Astragaloside IV (AS-IV), a key active component derived from the traditional Chinese medicinal plant Astragali, has been reported to exhibit various biological activities, including antioxidative, anti-inflammatory, immunoregulatory, and antineoplastic properties. This study aimed to elucidate the role of AS-IV in inhibiting gastric cancer (GC) growth, focusing on its impact on cell ferroptosis and the underlying molecular mechanisms. METHODS: Proliferation and migration of GC cells upon AS-IV treatment were examined using CCK-8, colony formation, and Transwell assays. Ferroptosis induction was analyzed via ELISA, flow cytometry, and transmission electron microscopy. Ferroptosis suppressor protein 1 (FSP1) mRNA stability was assessed by the ActD assay, while RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) was employed to confirm the interaction between FSP1 mRNA, Fat mass and obesity-associated protein (FTO) demethylase, and YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA-binding protein F2 (YTHDF2). The dual-luciferase reporter assay was used to explore FTO binding to N6-methyladenosine (m6A)-modified sites on FSP1 mRNA. Furthermore, AS-IV’s anti-tumor effects (20 mg/kg) were validated in vivo using gastric cancer xenograft and lung metastasis mouse models. RESULTS: AS-IV significantly suppressed the proliferation and migration of GC cells by inducing ferroptosis. Mechanistically, AS-IV down-regulated FTO, thus impairing its interaction with FSP1 mRNA and leading to increased m6A modification on FSP1 mRNA. This modification facilitated m6A recognition protein YTHDF2-mediated recognition and subsequent degradation of FSP1 mRNA. The reduction of FSP1 triggered ferroptosis, while the overexpression of FSP1 or inhibition of ferroptosis by ferrostatin-1 partially reversed AS-IV’s effects on cell viability and migration. In vivo, AS-IV effectively inhibited tumor growth and metastasis. CONCLUSIONS: This study highlights potent anti-GC effects of AS-IV, mediated by the suppression of FSP1 via the FTO/YTHDF2/m6A axis.
Aberrant N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification is linked to cancer development and progression. However, the role of YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA binding protein F2 (YTHDF2), an m6A 'reader protein', in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is poorly understood. This study aimed to clarify the role and mechanism of YTHDF2 in NPC development.Bioinformatics analysis was performed to identify the differential expression, prognostic value, and enriched pathways of YTHDF2 in patients with NPC. Quantitative PCR, western blotting, and immunohistochemistry were used to detect mRNA and protein expression. Biological function of YTHDF2 was investigated using in vitro experiments, including proliferation, wound healing, and invasion assays. RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing (RIP-seq), RIP-qPCR, and Methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing (MeRIP-seq) were employed to determine if YTHDF2 modulates forkhead box O1 (FOXO1) expression through m6A modification.YTHDF2 mRNA and protein levels were significantly increased in the NPC tissues and cell lines. Higher expression of YTHDF2 was associated with a poorer prognosis. Overexpressing YTHDF2 enhanced the NPC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Conversely, YTHDF2 knockdown inhibited these phenomena. Gene set enrichment analysis revealed that FOXO1-related signaling pathways were enriched in the YTHDF2-activated group. Mechanistically, YTHDF2 overexpression inhibited FOXO1 expression in NPC cells. RIP-seq, RIP-qPCR, and MeRIP-seq assays confirmed that YTHDF2 was bound to FOXO1 mRNA, reducing its stability and accelerated degradation.YTHDF2 potentially functions as an oncogene in NPC by binding to the m6A site of FOXO1, reducing its expression, thereby promoting malignant behavior. It may also be a viable biomarker and therapeutic target for NPC.
Wear particle-induced periprosthetic osteolysis (PPO) represents the primary reason for implant failure following joint replacement, driven by macrophage polarization and excessive osteoclastogenesis. While cell migration inducing hyaluronidase 1 (CEMIP) has been implicated in inflammation and bone metabolism, its role in wear particle-induced PPO remains unexplored. Here, we discover that CEMIP expression was upregulated in Ti particle-induced calvarial osteolysis model. Functional studies revealed that CEMIP knockdown could attenuate Ti particle-triggered bone resorption via suppressing macrophage M1 polarization, promoting M2 polarization, and inhibiting osteoclast differentiation, as evidenced by reduced M1 markers, increased M2 markers, decreased inflammatory cytokines, and osteoclast-specific gene expression. In vitro, CEMIP silencing suppressed IFNγ-induced M1 polarization, enhanced IL-4-induced M2 polarization, and RANKL/M-CSF-triggered osteoclastogenesis in bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs). Mechanistically, wear particle exposure decreases N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification of CEMIP mRNA, impairing m6A reader protein YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA binding protein F2 (YTHDF2)-mediated recognition and subsequent mRNA decay, thereby stabilizing CEMIP transcripts and enhancing their expression. Furthermore, CEMIP knockdown counteracted the enhancement of M1 macrophage polarization and osteoclast differentiation resulting from YTHDF2 silencing. Collectively, these findings highlight the critical role of the YTHDF2/CEMIP axis in regulating macrophage polarization and osteoclast differentiation, thus offering a promising therapeutic target for wear particle-induced PPO.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Endometriosis (EMS), a chronic inflammatory disease affecting approximately 10 % reproductive aged women, remains etiologically unclear. This study aims to investigate the role and underlying mechanisms of frizzled class receptor 7 (FZD7) in EMS. In vitro, cellular transfection with siRNA or plasmid constructs was employed to modulate FZD7 expression and assess its functional significance. In vivo, an EMS mouse model was established via intraperitoneal injection of endometrial fragments; therapeutic effects of FZD7 inhibition were evaluated using specific inhibitors. FZD7 inhibition significantly promoted the overproduction of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in EMS ectopic cells, increased the level of lipid peroxidation, promoted intracellular Fe2+ accumulation, and altered mitochondrial morphology. Mechanistic studies showed that decreased expression of methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3) and YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA binding protein 2 (YTHDF2) in EMS led to decreased m6A modification level, decreased degradation, and increased expression in FZD7 mRNA, and caused increased transcription of solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11) via β-catenin, which in turn inhibited ferroptosis. We found that inhibition of FZD7 promotes ferroptosis, and that the combination of the FZD7 inhibitor (F7H) and the ferroptosis activator (erastin) in mice most significantly inhibited the progression of EMS.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The WNT signaling pathway has long been implicated in tumorigenesis across multiple cancer types, including breast cancer. However, the complexity arising from the large number of WNTs and their receptors has made it challenging to pinpoint specific components driving tumor development. Using the MMTV-Wnt1 genetically engineered mouse model, which develops mixed-lineage mammary tumors resembling triple-negative breast cancer and composed of both basal and luminal subtypes, we identify the frizzled class receptor 7 (Fzd7) as a key player. Fzd7 is expressed on mammary tumor cells that show enhanced tumorigenic potential in both orthotopic transplantation and tumor organoid assays. Despite the cellular heterogeneity of MMTV-Wnt1 tumors, treatment with a Fzd7-specific antibody-drug conjugate significantly suppresses tumor growth, suggesting that Fzd7-expressing cells are critical drivers of tumor progression. These findings show that Fzd7 marks a population of putative tumor-initiating cells and that targeting Fzd7 offers a promising therapeutic strategy for breast cancer.
Preeclampsia (PE), a hypertensive disorder of pregnancy, is characterized by impaired trophoblast cell function. The 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 1D (HTR1D) has been implicated in trophoblast cell regulation, yet its specific role and the underlying molecular mechanisms in preeclampsia remain unclear.Trophoblast cells (HTR-8/SVneo) were exposed to CoCl2 to mimic an in vitro model of PE. The mRNA levels of HTR1D and RNA binding motif protein 15 (RBM15) were quantified using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, while protein expression of HTR1D, RBM15, and YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA binding protein F2 (YTHDF2) was assessed by western blotting. Functional assays, including cell counting kit-8, 5-Ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine, transwell, flow cytometry, and caspase-3 activity assays, were employed to evaluate cell viability, proliferation, migration, apoptosis, and oxidative stress. Methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP) and RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) assays were performed to examine the interactions among HTR1D, RBM15, and YTHDF2. The actinomycin D assay was used to assess mRNA stability.HTR1D expression was significantly downregulated in PE patients and hypoxia-induced HTR-8/SVneo cells, whereas RBM15 expression was upregulated. Overexpression of HTR1D mitigated hypoxia-induced inhibition of trophoblast proliferation and migration, as well as reduced apoptosis and oxidative stress. RBM15 was found to destabilize HTR1D mRNA in a YTHDF2-dependent manner. Silencing RBM15 enhanced trophoblast proliferation and migration while suppressing apoptosis and oxidative stress by upregulating HTR1D.The RBM15/YTHDF2-mediated destabilization of HTR1D mRNA exacerbated hypoxia-induced dysfunction in trophoblast cells associated with PE. These findings highlight the potential of targeting the RBM15/HTR1D axis as a therapeutic strategy for managing PE.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) increases cardiovascular disease risk. Coronary artery calcification (CAC) predicts cardiovascular events and mortality in COPD. We hypothesized that plasma proteins linked to pulmonary phenotypes mediate CAC burden.Pulmonary function, emphysema, airway wall thickening, Agatston CAC scores (inverse normal transformed), and relative abundance of 1305 plasma proteins (log-transformed) were assessed in 989 Phase 1 COPDGene (Genetic Epidemiology of COPD) participants. Proteins associated with both pulmonary phenotypes (FEV1[forced expiratory volume in 1 second]%predicted, FVC [forced vital capacity], FEV1/FVC, emphysema, airway wall thickness, wall area percentage) and CAC (false discovery rate P≤0.20) were evaluated using multivariable mediation. Model adjustments included sex, age, race, body mass index, smoking, comorbidities, and medications. Adjustment for pulmonary artery-to-aortic diameter ratio-a marker of pulmonary vascular pressure-was also explored. The95% bootstrap CIs that excluded zero were considered significant.FEV1%predicted (P=0.026) and FEV1/FVC (P=0.010) were associated with CAC. After adjusting for FEV1, visual emphysema, and visual airway wall thickening remained associated with CAC. Five proteins (TSP2 [thrombospondin-2], renin, MMP-7 [matrix metalloproteinase-7], ERBB1 [epidermal growth factor receptor], MIC-1 [macrophage inhibitory cytokine-1]) mediated the FEV1%predicted and CAC association. All except MIC-1 mediated FEV1/FVC and CAC. All except renin mediated quantitative airway wall thickness or wall area percentage and CAC. Additionally, α2-antiplasmin (alpha-2 antiplasmin) mediated airway wall thickness and CAC. ERBB1 mediated visual paraseptal emphysema and CAC. Pulmonary artery-to-aortic diameter ratio adjustment reduced or eliminated some mediation effects. ERBB1 remained an independent mediator across multiple phenotypes.Six plasma proteins mediated associations between COPD phenotypes and CAC burden. These effects were partially influenced by pulmonary artery-to-aortic diameter ratio A, suggesting shared molecular pathways linking lung dysfunction to cardiovascular risk in COPD.
Secondary lymphedema is a debilitating complication following oncologic surgery, characterized by progressive tissue fibrosis and chronic inflammation. Although transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) has been established as a central mediator of fibrotic remodeling, the broader interplay between pro-inflammatory cytokines and downstream fibrotic signaling cascades in post-surgical lymphedematous tissue remains poorly understood.Skin and subcutaneous tissue biopsies were prospectively collected from 126 patients with unilateral breast cancer-related lymphedema and 58 matched controls across three tertiary centers between January 2024 and December 2025. Tissue specimens were analyzed using immunohistochemistry, quantitative real-time PCR, multiplex cytokine profiling, and Western blotting. Correlations between cytokine expression, fibrotic markers, and clinical severity were evaluated.Lymphedematous tissues exhibited significantly elevated expression of TGF-β1, interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-13 (IL-13), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) compared with controls (all P < 0.01). Concurrent activation of Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling pathways was observed, with both correlating positively with disease severity. Multivariate regression identified TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 as independent predictors of fibrotic burden, whereas TNF-α lost significance after adjustment for confounders. Lymphatic vessel density was inversely associated with cytokine levels and fibrotic severity.Secondary upper extremity lymphedema following breast cancer surgery is driven by a coordinated inflammatory and fibrotic axis involving TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 through convergent Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling. These findings support the development of multi-pathway therapeutic strategies beyond single-agent anti-fibrotic approaches for post-surgical lymphedema.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) are expanding treatment options in endometrial carcinoma, but the distribution of actionable surface targets across histologic, molecular, and genomic subgroups remains incompletely defined.This single-institution retrospective tissue microarray (TMA) study included 312 endometrial carcinomas: 158 endometrioid and 154 serous tumors. Trophoblast cell-surface antigen 2 (TROP2) was quantified by histochemical score (H-score); human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) was assessed using endometrial carcinoma-specific and gastric/DESTINY-PanTumor02 criteria; and folate receptor alpha (FRα) positivity was defined as ≥75% viable tumor cells with ≥2+ membranous staining. Molecular class was assigned using a hierarchical DNA polymerase epsilon (POLE)-mutant, microsatellite instability/mismatch repair-deficient (MSI/MMRd), p53-abnormal, and no specific molecular profile (NSMP) classifier. Tumor mutational burden (TMB) and recurrent genomic alterations were analyzed in relation to biomarker expression.TROP2 was broadly expressed, with median H-scores of 280 in endometrioid and 200 in serous carcinomas. HER2 gastric-score 2+/3+ expression and FRα positivity were enriched in serous versus endometrioid carcinoma (22.5% vs 8.9% and 20.1% vs 4.4%), restricted to FIGO grade 3 tumors, and concentrated in p53-abnormal disease. FRα positivity was absent in POLE-mutant and MSI/MMRd tumors. HER2 2+/3+ expression correlated with erb-b2 receptor tyrosine kinase 2 (ERBB2) alterations, whereas FRα-positive tumors were enriched for TP53 alterations and showed lower frequencies of ARID1A and PTEN alterations. Triple-negative TROP2/HER2/FRα tumors were uncommon (6/308, 1.9%).TROP2 is broadly expressed in endometrial carcinoma, whereas HER2 and FRα define a more restricted high-grade, serous/serous-like, p53-abnormal compartment, supporting biomarker-informed ADC development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567017 is a review article
Metronomic chemotherapy with oral capecitabine + vinorelbine (Cape + VNL) provides synergistic cytostatic activity and antiangiogenic and immunomodulatory effects, potentially offering prolonged disease control with limited toxicity in HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer (MBC). However, efficacy in the real-world (RW) setting, especially in late lines, and the impact of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPYD) polymorphisms on dose reduction and safety remain limited.In this retrospective study, 200 patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative MBC were treated at the ASST Cremona Hospital (2015-2023) with metronomic Cape (1000 mg twice daily, in normal metabolizers; 500 mg twice daily, in DPYD variant carriers) + VNL (20 mg/day, once daily, 5-days-on/2-days-off). All patients underwent pretreatment DPYD genotyping and dose adjustment. Treatment was administered in the second-to-fourth setting. The primary end point was time-to-next treatment or death (TNTD); secondary end points included overall survival (OS), disease control rate (DCR) ≥24 weeks, overall response rate (ORR), safety, and genotype-toxicity correlations.The median age was 61 years, and DPYD variants were present in 14.5% of patients; 34%, 41%, and 25% received therapy as second-, third-, and fourth-line treatment. The median TNTD was 22.0 weeks, and the OS was 64.0 weeks. The DCR was 38.5%, and the ORR was 22.0%. Efficacy was comparable between DPYD variant carriers and normal metabolizers (all P values > .05). In later lines, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status 2 and >2 metastatic sites were independent negative prognostic factors (all values P < .05). Overall, 7.5% grade 3 toxicities occurred, especially in variant carriers without dose reduction and grade 4-5 events.These RW data suggest that metronomic Cape + VNL may represent a clinically active and manageable option in heavily pretreated HER2-negative MBC. Our findings support prospective evaluation of DPYD-guided dose individualization as a strategy to optimize the benefit-risk balance of fluoropyrimidine-based metronomic regimens.
In hormone receptor-positive/human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative (HR+/HER2-) metastatic breast cancer (mBC), cyclin-dependent kinase 4/6 inhibitors (CDK4/6i) have transformed long-term disease control; however, survival trajectories remain markedly heterogeneous. While a subset of patients experiences early progression reflecting endocrine-resistant and biologically aggressive disease, others maintain durable endocrine-sensitive control for several years. As a result, baseline survival estimates calculated from treatment initiation become progressively less representative for patients who remain progression-free during ongoing therapy. We therefore evaluated landmark-based conditional survival outcomes in a real-world cohort of patients receiving first-line CDK4/6i-based therapy.We retrospectively evaluated 390 patients with HR+/HER2- mBC treated with first-line CDK4/6i plus endocrine therapy. Landmark analyses were performed at 6, 12, 24, and 36 months following treatment initiation. Conditional progression-free survival (cPFS), conditional overall survival (cOS), and post-landmark OS according to progression status were estimated using Kaplan-Meier analyses from each landmark time point. Baseline clinicopathological factors were additionally evaluated using landmark-specific logistic regression analyses.Median progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) from treatment initiation were 29.2 months (95% CI, 24.6-33.9) and 68.0 months (95% CI, 55.7-80.4), respectively. Disease progression had occurred in 11.5%, 26.1%, 50.8%, and 70.4% of patients by the 6-, 12-, 24-, and 36-month landmarks, respectively. Among patients remaining progression-free at these time points, median cPFS was 27.15, 28.08, 34.58, and 41.90 months, respectively, suggesting increasingly durable conditional disease control with successive progression-free milestones. Landmark progression status strongly stratified subsequent survival outcomes, with significantly inferior post-landmark OS observed among patients with progression at all evaluated landmarks (all log-rank p < 0.001). Endocrine resistance, visceral disease, and adverse tumor biology were consistently associated with an increased risk of progression. However, estimates beyond the 36-month landmark were less precise owing to the limited risk set and greater censoring.Landmark-based conditional survival analysis provides clinically meaningful, time-updated prognostic information in HR+/HER2- mBC treated with first-line CDK4/6 inhibitors. Crossing successive progression-free milestones identifies a subgroup with increasingly durable long-term disease control while maintaining favorable post-landmark survival. These findings support the integration of milestone-based conditional survival estimates alongside conventional baseline survival metrics in the CDK4/6i era.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Japanese Breast Cancer Society.
The current evidence suggests that the formation of pulp stones (PS) has a genetic background. Therefore, the present study aimed to evaluate the association between PS in orthodontically treated patients and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the mineralization-related genes (bone morphogenetic protein 2 [BMP2], BMP4, SMAD6, and runt-related transcription factor 2 [RUNX2]).This cross-sectional study analyzed genomic DNA and panoramic radiographs from patients with a history of orthodontic treatment. Panoramic radiographs were analyzed and PS were identified as well- or poorly defined radiopaque opacities located within the pulp chamber of the maxillary and mandibular first and second permanent molars. Genomic DNA obtained from all participants was analyzed. The genetic analysis focused on seven specific SNPs located in genes involved in mineralization pathways: BMP2 (rs235768 and rs1005464), BMP4 (rs17563), SMAD6 (rs3934908 and rs2119261), and RUNX2 (rs59983488 and rs1200425). Comparisons of allele and genotype (codominant, dominant, and recessive models) distributions between patients with and without PS were performed using the chi-square test. Logistic regression analyses were performed to control for potential confounders such as age and sex for the SNPs located in the RUNX2 gene. One-way ANOVA was applied to evaluate differences in the mean number of teeth with PS across genotypes. The significance level was established at α = 0.05.The final sample comprised 235 patients: 120 presented with PS, and 115 served as controls. For the SNP rs59983488 in RUNX2, a statistical association was observed for genotype distribution in the dominant model (p = 0.033) and for allele distribution (p = 0.022). For the SNP rs1200425 in RUNX2, a statistical association was observed for genotype distribution in the recessive model (p = 0.046; odds ratio [OR] = 2.0, confidence interval [CI] 95% 1.0-3.8). No statistically significant association was observed in the logistic regression analysis.Our study suggests that RUNX2 could have a small effect on the susceptibility of orthodontic patients to develop PS.Copyright © 2026 Daniel Hemming et al. International Journal of Dentistry published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation status plays a critical role in guiding targeted therapy for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, molecular testing in patients with stage IA NSCLC may be limited by insufficient tissue availability, procedural invasiveness, and resource constraints. Therefore, developing a non-invasive approach for EGFR mutation prediction is of substantial clinical interest. This study aimed to develop a computed tomography (CT) radiomics based model integrating clinical variables for non-invasive prediction of EGFR mutation status in stage IA NSCLC patients.A total of 375 patients with stage IA NSCLC who underwent pre-treatment chest CT and EGFR mutation testing were retrospectively enrolled. Tumor volumes of interest (VOIs) were manually segmented on CT images, and radiomic features were extracted using the pyradiomics package. Clinical and radiomic features were selected through a feature selection pipeline, and multiple machine learning algorithms were evaluated for EGFR mutation prediction. Model performance was assessed using the Area Under Curve (AUC).Predictive performance varied across feature selection strategies and machine learning algorithms. Among all evaluated combinations, the Linear Regression (LR) model built using the Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO)-30 feature set achieved the best performance, with a test-set AUC of 0.745. In this model, CT radiomic features served as the primary predictive component, while selected clinical variables provided complementary information and modestly improved predictive performance. These findings support the value of integrating radiomic and clinical features for non-invasive EGFR mutation prediction in early-stage NSCLC.A CT radiomics based model demonstrated only moderate performance for the non-invasive prediction of EGFR mutation status in patients with stage IA NSCLC. When clinical variables were incorporated, predictive performance improved, suggesting that clinical features provide complementary information beyond radiomics alone. The combined model highlights the added value of integrating CT-derived radiomics with clinical data for more accurate individualized molecular assessment, particularly when tissue-based genotyping is unavailable or limited.© 2026 Guan et al.
The aim of this study is to elucidate the role of the arteriogenesis mechanism and its impact on the remodeling of choke vessels within the delayed multiterritory perforator flap (MPF) from the perspective of protein molecular mechanisms.Integument radiography and HE staining were used to conduct qualitative and quantitative evaluations of the microvascular morphology within the choke zones. A laser Doppler blood flow imager was used to assess blood perfusion. Immunohistochemistry was used to perform qualitative, semiquantitative, and localized analyses of the spatiotemporal dynamic expression of protein molecules involved in collateral artery growth within the choke zone at 1, 3, 5, and 7 days following delayed surgery and flap elevation.Radiographs of the perfused integuments revealed that true anastomoses emerged in choke zones 1 and 2 three days after the delayed surgery. HE staining findings showed that after flap delay surgery, both choke zones 1 and 2 underwent remodeling, characterized by increased arteriolar diameters and decreased microvessel density. The blood perfusion units in choke zones 1 and 2 were significantly higher on 1 day than at 4 hours after the delayed surgery (P<0.05). In choke zones 1 and 2, protein molecules associated with collateral artery remodeling-including TRPV4, VE-cadherin, eNOS, iNOS, ICAM-1, FAK, Ephrin B2, PLGF, CD163, MMP-9, MMP-2, and CX-37-exhibited significant increases after delayed surgery and/or flap elevation, compared with their preoperative expression levels (P<0.05).The spatiotemporal dynamic changes of protein molecules related to the remodeling of collateral arteries are closely related to the remodeling of choke vessels in choke zones 1 and 2 of delayed MPF with ligated perforators in the dynamic region, and the arteriogenesis mechanism may play an important role in the remodeling of these choke vessels.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Evidence has shown that constant light or constant darkness significantly impairs cognitive functions and affects the mood state. The present study investigated the effect of circadian rhythm disturbances (circadian rhythm disruptions, CRDs) on locomotor activity, rearing behavior, pain threshold, novel object recognition memory, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK-3β) expression levels in the hippocampus of both sexes of rats. CRD was done using a combination of constant light (48 h) and constant darkness (48 h) periods for 8 (short-term), 16 (midterm), or 24 (long-term) days. The results showed CRD in all protocols increased locomotor activity in males, whereas in females, only long-term CRD increased it. Long-term CRD increased rearing only in females, whereas in males, only midterm CRD decreased rearing. Short- and midterm CRD in males decreased pain threshold, whereas in females, only midterm CRD decreased pain threshold. Novel object recognition memory was impaired in both sexes following all protocols of CRD. All protocols of CRD in females downregulated BDNF, whereas in males, short-term CRD had no effect. GSK-3β was increased following long-term CRD in both sexes. Spearman correlation test showed that BDNF function may be associated with changes in some behavioral functions in both sexes; however, GSK-3β function may be associated with some behavioral changes only in females. In conclusion, we showed sex differences in the effect of CRD on locomotor activity, rearing behavior, and pain threshold. Also, GSK-3β may show a sex-dependent role in the modulation of behavioral changes induced by CRD.Copyright © 2026 Zeinab Dalil-Housh et al. Behavioural Neurology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Background/Objectives: Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains one of the leading causes of cancer-related morbidity and mortality worldwide. Despite advances in treatment, outcomes for advanced CRC remain unsatisfactory due to uncontrolled proliferation, metastasis, and recurrence. This study investigated the anti-cancer effects of KMU-11342, an indolin-2-one-based multi-protein kinase inhibitor with previously reported anti-inflammatory properties, in human colorectal cancer models. Methods: The anti-cancer effects of KMU-11342 were evaluated in colorectal cancer cells and further investigated in three-dimensional (3D) spheroid and patient-derived organoid models. Cell proliferation, migration, apoptosis, and cell cycle progression were assessed. Kinase activity profiling and molecular docking analyses were performed to identify potential targets and characterize the underlying signaling pathways. Results: KMU-11342 significantly inhibited the proliferation and migration of CRC cells. It reduced CRC cell density by 58.9% and 83.3% at 0.5 and 1 μM, respectively. These effects were accompanied by G2/M cell cycle arrest and apoptotic cell death. In 3D models, spheroid formation was markedly reduced and stemness-related characteristics were diminished. Patient-derived CRC organoids also showed decreased viability, exhibiting 38.6% and 77.4% reductions at 1 and 2 μM, respectively. These effects were observed in a dose-dependent manner in both two-dimensional (2D) and 3D colorectal cancer models. Kinase activity profiling and molecular docking analyses identified glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3β) and cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1) as potential mediators of the anti-cancer effects of KMU-11342 through the p53/nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) and FoxO1 signaling axes, respectively. Conclusions: KMU-11342 exhibits potent anti-tumor activity against CRC through suppressing proliferation, migration, and stemness in both 2D and 3D models, including patient-derived organoids. Its effects may be mediated, at least in part, through modulation of GSK3β and CDK1 via the p53/NF-κB and FoxO1 signaling pathways.
Nipah virus (NiV) is a highly lethal zoonotic pathogen with significant pandemic potential, for which no approved antiviral therapies are currently available. Viral entry is mediated by the interaction between the NiV attachment glycoprotein (NiV-G) and host ephrin receptors, particularly ephrin-B2 (EFNB2) and ephrin-B3 (EFNB3), making this interface an attractive therapeutic target. In this study, we evaluated a set of structurally related flavonoids, apigenin, cynaroside, and lonicerin, as potential modulators of the EFNB2-NiV-G and EFNB3-NiV-G interactions. These compounds were selected based on their structural similarity, reported antiviral activity, chemical diversity, and favorable drug-like properties. Apigenin was employed as a reference scaffold due to its well-characterized pharmacological profile and its suitability for guiding analog-based compound selection. Apigenin served as a reference scaffold for selecting structurally related flavonoids, which were analyzed through density functional theory optimization, molecular docking, pharmacokinetic and toxicity predictions, molecular dynamics simulations, and binding free energy calculations. These flavonoids demonstrated high predicted affinity for both the EFNB2-NiV-G and EFNB3-NiV-G interfaces. According to results, these compounds consistently interacted with residues known to play a critical role in receptor recognition, with special emphasis on leucine and tryptophan residues within the G-H loop. These residues are well established as key determinants in the entry process of Nipah virus (NiV) into host cells, highlighting the potential relevance of these flavonoid-protein interactions. Molecular dynamics analyses indicated that flavonoid binding reduced the affinity and the conformational flexibility at the receptor-glycoprotein interfaces and decreased the stability of the complexes. Pharmacokinetic and toxicity predictions suggested favorable drug-like properties for the flavonoids, with apigenin displaying the most balanced profile. Collectively, these results support the potential of selected flavonoids as modulators of EFNB2-NiV-G and EFNB3-NiV-G interactions and provide a rationale for their prioritization in experimental studies aimed at developing scaffolds for the modulation of viral entry against Nipah virus.
Granulosa cells (GCs) are integral to the process of follicular development in poultry, with their differentiation and hormone synthesis being critical for follicle selection. While glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3β) is recognized as a significant regulator of energy metabolism, differentiation, and autophagy, its specific function within GCs remains unclear. Elucidating the role of GSK3β in GCs is essential for deciphering the mechanisms governing follicle selection. Our in vitro studies in GCs from prehierarchical follicles demonstrated that overexpression of GSK3β inhibited both differentiation and proliferation, while simultaneously promoting steroid hormone synthesis. Conversely, GSK3β knockdown yielded the opposite effects. Transcriptomic analyses, supplemented by further validation, revealed that overexpression of GSK3β initiated autophagy and lipid metabolism but impeded autophagic flux, as evidenced by increased LC3-II levels and elevated p62 accumulation. Furthermore, GSK3β overexpression resulted in enhanced intracellular lipid droplet accumulation. These effects, along with the observed rise in progesterone levels and reduction in FSHR levels, were attenuated by co-treatment with rapamycin (Rapa). Mechanistically, our findings suggest that the impairment of autophagic flux induced by GSK3β triggers lipid accumulation, leading to elevated mitochondrial damage and lipid peroxidation, which in turn negatively affects GC differentiation. In conclusion, GSK3β disrupts follicular GC function by initiating autophagy while blocking its flux. This disruption induces excessive lipid accumulation, ultimately inhibiting GC differentiation. This study provides novel insights into the role of GSK3β in poultry follicular development and offers a new theoretical framework for understanding the mechanisms of follicle selection.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Next-generation sequencing has accelerated the discovery of novel putative viruses in wildlife reservoirs, while identifying those with zoonotic potential remains challenging. In this study, we report the identification and characterization of Ailong virus, a novel putative henipavirus from previous bat metagenomes in China that utilizes human ephrin B2 (EFNB2) and EFNB3 as functional receptors. Using an integrated approach combining phylogenetic analysis, pseudotyped virus entry assays, antibody blockade assays, and structural modeling, we demonstrate that Ailong virus glycoprotein binds human EFNB2 and EFNB3 with high specificity, mediating pseudovirus entry into both human neuronal and respiratory epithelial cells. Structural analysis revealed the Ailong virus glycoprotein-EFNB2 interface closely resembling that of Nipah virus (NiV), with conservation of all critical receptor-binding residues. Moreover, AiV encodes an exceptionally large phosphoprotein, 1,033 amino acids in length, which is larger than any other known phosphoprotein in the subfamily Paramyxoviridae. Given its receptor usage, structural similarities to NiV, and efficient entry in human airway epithelia, Ailong virus is believed to pose a spillover risk.Copyright: © 2026 Dai et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Preventing or reversing Tau hyperphosphorylation and aggregation represent critical objectives in the development of effective therapies for Alzheimer's disease. The present study investigated the potential of a novel Aronia bioactive fraction-alginic acid nanocomplex (AANCP)-to simultaneously inhibit pathological features of Alzheimer's disease. Evaluations of Aronia bioactive fraction (ABF) and low-molecular-weight alginic acid (LAA), utilized both individually and as AANCP, were conducted in HEK293-TauP301L and SH-SY5Y-TauP301L cell models of Alzheimer's disease. Both ABF and LAA reduced the expression of total Tau and Tau phosphorylated at Ser396 in a concentration-dependent manner, with AANCP demonstrating significant synergistic activity of its components. Notably, the optimal AANCP ratio was 1:1 and 1:8 for inhibiting Tau phosphorylation and Tau aggregation, respectively. Mechanistically, AANCP inhibited Tau phosphorylation by upregulating p-Akt (phosphorylated protein kinase B) and p-GSK-3β (phosphorylated glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta), while also enhancing the activity of methylated PP2A, a key Tau phosphatase. Furthermore, AANCP exhibited superior efficacy in inhibiting heparin-induced Tau aggregation compared to the individual components. Analysis of autophagy markers indicated that the nanocomplex enhanced Tau clearance, as shown by increased LC3-II and Beclin-1 levels and reduced p62 levels. These results suggest AANCP as a promising therapeutic candidate that simultaneously reduces Tau phosphorylation and aggregation and facilitates autophagic Tau clearance, offering a potent, synergistic strategy for treating Alzheimer's disease.
Age-related neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), are characterized by the accumulation of pathological Tau protein (tauopathy), which drives neurotoxicity and cognitive decline. Although SUMOylation significantly influences tauopathy, the underlying mechanisms remain largely elusive. Here, utilizing a bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assay to monitor Tau-Tau aggregation and screen for SUMO E3 ligases, we identified PIAS1 as a critical driver of Tau pathology. Genetic analysis of the UK Biobank cohort revealed that single nucleotide polymorphisms in the PIAS1 gene (rs8036154 and rs112677781) are significantly associated with a reduced risk of AD. Consistent with this clinical relevance, PIAS1 expression is upregulated in postmortem AD brains, aging PS19 tauopathy mice, aged wild-type mice, aged lemurs, and neurons stimulated with amyloid-beta or lipopolysaccharide. Viral-mediated modulation of PIAS1 in vivo demonstrated that PIAS1 promotes Tau hyperphosphorylation and aggregation, thereby exacerbating synaptic dysfunction and cognitive deficits. Mechanistically, we found that PIAS1 directly interacts with and mediates the SUMOylation of glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3β) at lysine residues 183 and 271. This specific SUMOylation reduces inhibitory phosphorylation at Ser9, consequently enhancing GSK3β-mediated Tau kinase activity. Importantly, we engineered a cell-permeable blocking peptide designed to disrupt the PIAS1-GSK3β interaction. Administration of this peptide effectively suppressed GSK3β activation and mitigated tauopathy and neurodegeneration in both in vitro and in vivo models. Together, our findings uncover a novel PIAS1-GSK3β signaling axis in tauopathy and provide a promising targeted therapeutic strategy for Alzheimer's disease.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Sepsis is frequently accompanied by central nervous system involvement, leading to sepsis-associated encephalopathy characterized by neuroinflammation, microvascular dysfunction, and neuronal injury. Despite increasing recognition of its clinical impact, effective neuroprotective strategies remain limited. Modafinil (MOD), a wakefulness-promoting agent, has recently attracted attention for its anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and neuroprotective properties in experimental models. Experimental sepsis was induced by intraperitoneal administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in adult female Wistar rats. Animals were randomly assigned to four groups: control, LPS, LPS plus MOD, and MOD alone. Cerebral tissue was harvested six hours after LPS administration. Caspase-3 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) expressions were assessed by immunohistochemistry. Oxidative stress was evaluated by measuring total oxidant status (TOS), total antioxidant status (TAS), and the oxidative stress index (OSI) in cerebral tissue homogenates. Gene expression levels of AKT1, glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3B), sirtuin 1 (SIRT1), and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) were analyzed by quantitative PCR. LPS administration produced significant increases in Caspase-3 and TNF-α immunoreactivity in both cerebral cortex and cerebellum. At the oxidative stress level, LPS significantly elevated TOS and OSI while reducing TAS, indicating a pronounced shift toward pro-oxidant conditions. At the molecular level, LPS significantly increased GSK3B expression while reducing HO-1 expression. MOD treatment significantly reduced Caspase-3 and TNF-α immunoreactivity in both regions, restored the oxidative balance as evidenced by significantly attenuated TOS and OSI levels, and significantly suppressed GSK3B upregulation, whereas its effect on HO-1, AKT1, and SIRT1 expression did not reach statistical significance. MOD mitigates sepsis-induced cerebral and cerebellar injury by attenuating neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and apoptosis. The accompanying decrease in GSK3B expression suggests that GSK3β-related signaling may contribute to these effects, although this relationship is associative rather than causal. MOD may therefore warrant further evaluation as a neuroprotective agent in sepsis-related CNS injury.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Histidine triad nucleotide-binding protein 1 (HINT1) is a small and evolutionarily conserved HIT family protein with putative tumor suppressor function. It has been implicated in the negative regulation of several transcription factors, but a role for HINT1 in Myocardin-related transcription factor A (MRTF-A)/serum response factor (SRF) signaling has not been described. Here, we examined whether HINT1 functionally interacts with MRTF-A in fibroblasts. HINT1 reduced MRTF-A-dependent reporter activity in a dose-dependent manner, whereas a histidine triad mutant did not. Repression by HINT1 was retained upon deletion of the N-terminal RPEL motifs of MRTF-A, indicating that the effect was not confined to the inhibition of Rho-actin signaling. In parallel, HINT1-WT increased the MRTF-A protein abundance, which required the C-terminal part of MRTF-A. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments revealed the physical association of HINT1 with MRTF-A, whereas the histidine triad mutant or a C-terminally truncated MRTF-A did not show complex formation. Thus, our work suggests that HINT1 acts as a negative regulator of MRTF-A-dependent transcription by binding to the MRTF-A C-terminal part, which appears to require the histidine triad region and is accompanied by a separable increase in MRTF-A abundance.© 2026 the author(s), published by De Gruyter, Berlin/Boston.
Naturally occurring isoforms of the proto-oncogene Erb-B2 Receptor Tyrosine Kinase 2 (ERBB2, HER2) incite unique pathways of tumor progression in mouse models of breast cancer. Although each isoform has been shown to progress to metastasis, the N-terminally truncated isoform (p95) was previously shown to be biased toward early distant dissemination prior to detection. Here we show how HER2 isoforms differentially promote go-or-grow phenotypes through biased utilization of tyrosine autophosphorylation sites in the intracellular tail of HER2. Fluorescently barcoded humanized full-length HER2 (WT), exon-16 splice HER2 isoform (d16), and p95 expressing tumor cell lines were derived from HER2 Crainbow mice, then utilized for a series of functional assays including proliferation, tumor growth rate, cell motility, collective cell migration, cellular morphology, and invasive potential. Quantitative analysis reveals biased tumor cell behaviors across each genotype. WT tumor cells are biased toward proliferation and collective migration, d16 cells are biased toward proliferation and individual motility, and p95 tumor cells are biased toward individual motility and invasion. Single cell analysis reveals a myogenic-like state transition in p95 cells accompanied by an increased nuclear translocation of the Myocardin Related Transcription Factor A (MRTFA). MRTFA knockdown, as well as knockdown of a downstream effector, Transforming growth factor beta 1 induced transcript 1 (TGFB1I1), both inhibit the p95 invasive phenotype. Furthermore, intracellular residue tyrosine 1139 (Y1139) is necessary for MRTFA translocation, and when edited in p95 cells (Y1139F) invasion and motility phenotypes are subsequently lost. Our data illustrate the importance of functionally selective signaling in HER2 and highlight the need for therapeutics that intercept metastasis by targeting HER2 biased signaling.
Posterior capsular opacification (PCO) is a common complication of cataract surgery and is strongly associated with the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of lens epithelial cells (LECs). Integrin β3 (ITGB3) has been implicated in various pathological processes; however, its role in PCO remains insufficiently understood.To investigate the regulatory role of ITGB3 in PCO progression and determine whether ITGB3 modulates transforming growth factor-β2 (TGF-β2)-induced migration and EMT in human lens epithelial cells.Human lens epithelial HLE-B3 cells were treated with transforming growth factor-β2 (TGF-β2; 10 ng/mL) to establish an in vitro model of PCO. ITGB3 expression at the mRNA and protein levels was assessed using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and western blotting. Cell proliferation was evaluated using the 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) assay, while cell migration was assessed using transwell and wound-healing assays.TGF-β2 stimulation significantly increased ITGB3 expression in HLE-B3 cells. Silencing of ITGB3 significantly reduced the proliferation of TGF-β2-treated cells and inhibited their migratory capacity, as demonstrated by both transwell and wound-healing assays. Exposure to TGF-β2 promoted EMT, whereas ITGB3 knockdown reversed this effect. Furthermore, activation of the TGF-β/Smad2/3 signaling pathway induced by TGF-β2 was attenuated following ITGB3 silencing.Knockdown of ITGB3 alleviates TGF-β2-induced migration and EMT in HLE-B3 cells by suppressing the TGF-β/Smad2/3 signaling pathway, supporting ITGB3 as a potential therapeutic target for the prevention and treatment of PCO.
Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT) is an autosomal‑dominant vascular disease characterized by telangiectasias and visceral arteriovenous malformations (AVMs), commonly in the lungs, liver, and brain. HHT is linked to mutations in the genes Activin A Receptor Like Type 1 (ACVRL1), Endoglin (ENG), and SMAD Family Member 4 (SMAD4). The ACVRL1 gene encodes the receptor ACVRL1 (Activin A Receptor Like Type 1), also known as ALK1 (Activin Receptor-Like Kinase 1), and belongs to the Transforming Growth Factor-Beta (TGFβ) Superfamily of receptors. Approximately 20% of patients with ACVRL1-associated HHT develop pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). [1] In pediatric PAH cohorts, ACVRL1 mutations account for nearly 10% of identified genetic variants. [2] The reduced penetrance of PAH among ACVRL1 mutation carriers suggests that additional modifiers account for PAH development. [3]. Given the relevance of the bone‑morphogenetic‑protein (BMP) pathway to the pathogenesis of PAH, and the intimate relationship of TGFβ superfamily signaling partners including ACVRL1 and BMPR2, genes which modify BMP-TGFβ signaling balance may contribute to PAH development in children with ACVRL1‑positive HHT. One such gene is SMAD9 (Receptor Regulated SMAD 9); the protein product of SMAD 9 (SMAD8) which mediates downstream TGFβ signaling. Herein, we report what we believe to be the youngest reported case of PAH in ACVRL1‑mediated HHT, in a patient who co‑harbors a SMAD9 mutation.© 2026 The Author(s). Pulmonary Circulation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Pulmonary Vascular Research Institute.
Sarcomas with Murine Double Minute 2 (MDM2) amplification are considered potential candidates for MDM2-targeted therapy. However, the limited efficacy of MDM2 inhibitor monotherapy suggests that additional biological factors may influence tumor behavior and prognosis. This study investigated the relationship between MDM2 expression and the Complexity Index in SARComas (CINSARC) transcriptomic signature, a gene expression signature that reflects cell division and chromosomal instability in soft tissue sarcomas. In the public GSE21050 dataset comprising 310 soft tissue sarcomas, the MDM2-low/CINSARC-low subgroup showed the most favorable metastasis-free survival, whereas the MDM2-high/CINSARC-low subgroup had an unfavorable metastasis-free survival comparable to that of the MDM2-high/CINSARC-high group. Among the representative genes in the 12q13-15 region, fibroblast growth factor receptor substrate 2 (FRS2) showed a strong positive correlation with MDM2 expression, but no significant correlation with CINSARC, suggesting an association independent of proliferative capacity. These findings suggest that proliferation-based risk assessment alone may underestimate the metastatic risk of a subset of MDM2-high sarcomas, and FRS2 may present a biologically relevant marker of aggressive behavior independent of tumor proliferation.
KMT2A (formerly MLL) gene rearrangements are common and clinically significant in acute leukemias, with outcomes influenced by the fusion partner. Over 100 fusion partners are known, but new ones continue to emerge. This study identified three novel partners-myocardin-related transcription factor B (MRTFB), sorbin and SH3 domain-containing 1 (SORBS1), and scavenger receptor cysteine-rich family member with 5 domains (SSC5D)-in pediatric and adult acute leukemia cases. Three cases were analyzed: a boy with B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia, a girl with acute myelomonocytic leukemia, and a woman with therapy-related acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Diagnostics included cytogenetic analysis, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), multiplex reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), whole genome sequencing (WGS), and confirmation of breakpoints by Sanger sequencing, with validation at DNA and RNA levels, using patient-specific primers. WGS identified three novel in-frame fusions: KMT2A::MRTFB, KMT2A::SORBS1, and KMT2A::SSC5D, all within the major KMT2A breakpoint region. All patients achieved complete remission with tailored therapy, including chemotherapy and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation where indicated. Follow-up demonstrated durable remissions ranging from 9 to 23 months at the time of reporting. This study expands the catalog of KMT2A fusion partners, highlighting MRTFB, SORBS1, and SSC5D as novel leukemia-associated genes. The findings underscore the value of WGS for comprehensive detection of rare genetic events, enabling improved molecular classification and prognostic assessment in KMT2A-rearranged leukemias.© 2026. Higher Education Press.
Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are key modulators of tumor growth, the tumor immune context, and treatment response. CAFs take on diverse phenotypes with distinct functions. Myofibroblastic CAFs (myCAFs) regulate extracellular matrix remodeling, while inflammatory CAFs (iCAFs) modulate immune infiltration. Further studies are required to validate biomarkers of CAF phenotypes and to identify means to therapeutically manipulate CAFs.Single-cell RNA sequencing analysis was used to identify markers of CAF phenotypes in CRC. CAF markers were validated and compared to clinical characteristics using patient-derived CAF cultures, fixed human CRC samples, and publicly available RNA sequencing data. Therapeutics were prioritized for their potential to inhibit the myCAF phenotype and nilotinib was selected for validation in patient-derived CAFs. Overall changes in CAFs were evaluated via RNA-seq, and results validated with in vitro experiments. Finally, the feasibility of altering CAF phenotypes to affect treatment response was evaluated in vivo.Here we identify disease-specific markers of colorectal CAFs that are functionally distinct, biologically identifiable, correlate with clinically relevant markers of disease, and can be therapeutically altered in vivo. High stromal expression of myCAF markers correlated with reduced infiltration of CD8+ T lymphocytes into the epithelial compartment compared to tumors with high stromal expression of iCAF markers. Nilotinib treatment inhibited myogenesis regulators myocardin and myocardin-related transcription factor A, which correlated with reduced expression of myCAF markers and extracellular matrix proteins and decreased tumor size in colorectal cancer-bearing mice when combined with anti-PD-1 therapy. We also identified PD-1 as a potential molecule that activates myocardin and myCAF expression, indicating a potential mechanism for increased response to the combination with anti-PD-1 therapy.These results highlight the feasibility of targeting CAF functions to improve therapeutic response, and support the investigation of nilotinib and anti-PD-1 therapy clinically.© 2026. The Author(s).
This randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial evaluated the clinical and biological effects of laser-assisted therapy on the healing of soft tissue at the pontic site prior to fixed partial denture rehabilitation.A total of 45 patients requiring a single-tooth extraction, followed by a three-unit fixed partial denture rehabilitation, were randomly allocated to one of three groups (n = 15 in each group). Gallium-Aluminum-Arsenide (GaAlAs) diode laser (GRR laser), Neodymium-doped Yttrium Aluminium Garnet laser (Nd: YAG) and placebo. Laser applications were performed once daily for five consecutive days following tooth extraction. Clinical healing was assessed using wound dimension measurements and the healing index (HI) at baseline, day 7, and day 14. Postoperative pain was evaluated using visual analog scale (VAS) scores recorded daily from postoperative day 1 to day 7. Gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) samples were collected at the same time points and analysed for transforming growth factor beta 2 (TGF-β2) levels using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Intergroup and intragroup comparisons were performed using the appropriate statistical tests (α = 0.05).No significant differences were observed among groups at baseline for any evaluated parameter (p > 0.05). At day 7 and day 14, significant intergroup differences were detected for wound dimensions, clinical healing index scores, VAS pain scores, and GCF TGF-β2 levels (p < 0.001). The GRR laser group demonstrated significantly greater wound size reduction, higher clinical healing index scores, lower postoperative pain levels, and higher TGF-β2 concentrations compared with the Nd: YAG laser and placebo groups. Nd: YAG laser group showed improved outcomes compared with placebo, although these differences were less significant than those observed in the GRR group.Laser-assisted therapy accelerated the healing of soft tissue at the pontic site prior to fixed partial denture rehabilitation. The GRR laser protocol achieved superior clinical and biological outcomes compared to the Nd: YAG laser and the placebo. These results suggest that optimised low-level laser therapy (LLLT) could be a valuable additional treatment for accelerating pontic site maturation and making the prosthetic workflow more predictable.NCT07415434, Retrospectively registered (09.02.2026).© 2026. The Author(s).
Tetralogy of Fallot (TOF) is the most common cyanotic form of congenital heart disease (CHD). The myocyte enhancer factor 2C (MEF2C) transcription factor is a crucial regulator of cardiac development, and variants in the coding region of this gene are a known cause of CHD. However, a significant gap exists in understanding the role of non-coding regulatory variants, specifically those within the MEF2C promoter. This study seeks to fill this gap by investigating whether such promoter variants contribute to TOF pathogenesis and providing functional evidence for their impact.Targeted sequencing of the MEF2C promoter was performed in 305 TOF patients and 306 controls. Identified rare variants were functionally characterised using dual-luciferase reporter assays in AC16 cardiomyocytes. Bioinformatic predictions and electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA) were applied to assess the impact on transcription factor binding.Five variants (g.24599 G>A, g.24918 T>G, g.25270 T>A (rs904793941), g.25701 C>A and g.25769 T>C (rs886060871)) were identified exclusively in TOF patients. Four of the five variants significantly reduced transcriptional activity at a conservative threshold of p<0.01, with reductions ranging from 56.5% to 87.8% of wild-type. Bioinformatic analysis and EMSA confirmed that these variants alter key transcription factor binding sites (eg, for ETS1, GATA3, NFATC2) and disrupt DNA-protein interactions.This study provides the first functional evidence that MEF2C promoter variants are associated with TOF and affect transcriptional regulation, offering new insights into the potential genetic mechanisms of TOF.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy (ARVC) is an inherited cardiomyopathy characterized by progressive fibrofatty replacement of the right ventricular myocardium, ventricular arrhythmias, and an increased risk of sudden cardiac death. Pathogenic variants of desmosomal genes have been implicated in ARVC pathogenesis and may disrupt desmosomal protein function. However, whether and how desmosomal protein dysfunction directly activates cardiac fibroblasts to mediate fibrosis remains poorly understood. To address this, we combined genetic analysis with in vivo and cellular models to investigate the role of desmosomal dysfunction in cardiac fibrosis. The systematic genetic analysis revealed that desmosomal gene variants are predominant in ARVC, accounting for 67.4% of cases in cohort studies and 96.1% of pathogenic variants in ClinVar. We used desmocollin-2 (DSC2) knockout mice to recapitulate key features of ARVC, including right ventricular fibrosis, enlargement, and dysfunction. In vitro, DSC2 deficiency directly activates cardiac fibroblasts, resulting in increased cell proliferation, migration, and fibrosis marker expression. Further analysis identified transforming growth factor beta-2 (TGF-β2) as a critical signaling mediator in cardiac fibrosis of DSC2 deficiency-mediated ARVC. Mechanistically, DSC2 deficiency upregulated transcription factor 7 (TCF7) expression, promoting its binding to TGF-β2 promoter regions to enhance TGF-β2 transcription in cardiac fibroblasts. Pharmacological inhibition of TGF-β2 with pirfenidone (PFD) effectively attenuated cardiac fibrosis and improved right ventricular function in DSC2-deficient hearts. The results of the present study identified DSC2 deficiency-mediated TCF7-TGF-β2 signaling in cardiac fibroblasts, which contributed to ARVC development. Thus, targeting TGF-β2 signaling may be a promising therapeutic strategy for desmosome gene mutation-related ARVC.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.
Heterozygosity for the pathogenic missense TBX5 (T-box transcription factor 5) variant p.G125R, identified in members of a family presenting with atypical Holt-Oram syndrome, is associated with supraventricular arrhythmias, including atrial fibrillation and disrupted sinus rhythm. Tbx5+/G125R mice recapitulated major aspects of the patient phenotype, including increased susceptibility for atrial arrhythmias, and revealed deregulation of the adult atrial cardiomyocyte transcriptional regulatory network and epigenetic state. Because TBX5 has also been implicated in the development and function of the sinus node and atria, and both patients and Tbx5+/G125R mice present with indications for sinus node dysfunction, we explored the impact of TBX5-p.G125R on gene expression in the fetal and adult sinus node and atria using spatial transcriptomics. We found that TBX5-p.G125R-mediated transcriptional alterations in the atria are initiated prior to birth, culminating in atrial arrhythmias in adult mice, while prenatal sinus node development and transcriptome were largely unaffected. However, TBX5-p.G125R induces a transcriptional state change in adult sinus node pacemaker cardiomyocytes, modifying pacemaker electrophysiology and disrupting intrinsic sinus node function. We conclude that alterations driven by TBX5-p.G125R in the transcriptional state of the postnatal sinus node contribute to sinus node dysfunction and atrial arrhythmias in adult Tbx5+/G125R mice. This emphasizes the critical role of TBX5 in maintaining pacemaker cardiomyocyte state and function.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Autoimmune uveitis is a vision-threatening inflammatory disorder driven by dysregulated T helper 17 (Th17) responses, yet therapeutic strategies targeting Th17 differentiation are lacking. Through transcriptomic screening of an experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU) model and validation in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada patients, we identified MAP1S (microtubule-associated protein 1S) as a pivotal, conserved regulator. Here, we demonstrate that MAP1S constrains pathogenic Th17 responses and alleviates EAU through a dual mechanism coordinating transcriptional control and autophagic degradation. Mechanistically, MAP1S binds to EGR2 (early growth response 2) and restrains its acetylation at Lys368, thereby suppressing Lcn2 (lipocalin 2) transcription. Besides, MAP1S facilitates autophagosome biogenesis and lysosomal trafficking, promoting the autophagic clearance of LCN2 protein. Notably, MAP1S deficiency enhances EGR2 acetylation, increases Lcn2 transcription, disrupts autophagosome trafficking, impairs LCN2 degradation, and promotes LCN2 accumulation, collectively driving Th17 polarization and exacerbating EAU pathology. Adoptive transfer of cervical lymph node cells from map1s knockout mice reproduced severe disease in wild-type recipients. Moreover, pharmacological activation of MAP1S with spermidine suppressed Th17 responses and alleviated disease severity. Our findings establish MAP1S as a critical node integrating acetylation signaling of EGR2 and autophagic flux to govern LCN2 homeostasis and Th17 pathogenicity, revealing a promising therapeutic target for autoimmune uveitis and potentially other Th17-mediated diseases.Abbreviations: AAV: adeno-associated virus; ACOD1: aconitate decarboxylase 1; AU: autoimmune uveitis; BCL2: B cell leukemia/lymphoma 2; CDLNs: cervical draining lymph nodes; CFA: complete Freund's adjuvant; ChIP: chromatin immunoprecipitation; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; EAU: experimental autoimmune uveitis; EGR2: early growth response 2; GDF15: growth differentiation factor 15; HDAC4: histone deacetylase 4; HDAC6: histone deacetylase 6; IL17: interleukin 17; IL17f: interleukin 17f; IL22: interleukin 22; K: lysine; KAT2A/GCN5: K(lysine) acetyltransferase 2A; KO: knockout; LCN2: lipocalin 2; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; MAP1S: microtubule-associated protein 1S; MS: mass spectrometry; PBMC: peripheral blood mononuclear cell; PCR: polymerase chain rection; PPI: protein-protein interaction; PTX: pertussis toxin; qPCR: quantitative PCR; RT-qPCR: reverse transcription and quantitative real-time RCR; SAA3: serum amyloid A3; SPD: spermidine; Th1 cells: T helper 1 cells; Th17 cells: T helper 17 cells; TF: transcriptional factor; Tregcells: regulatory T cells; VKH disease: Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada disease; WT: wild-type.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42416401 is a review article
Chronic pain affects approximately one fifth of people worldwide and displays a huge burden for health care institutions. Some chronic pain conditions have a higher prevalence in women than men. Previous studies related these sex-specific differences to sex-hormone receptor activation and interaction with pain-related receptors like the transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1). Here, especially estrogen seems to play a crucial role. While the role of estrogen receptor alpha and beta in modulating TRPV1 has already been studied, the interplay of the membrane-bound and G-protein -coupled estrogen receptor (GPER1) with nociceptor-associated ion channels is still unknown. The study at hand focuses on the establishment of a human induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) -based nociceptor model to unravel the effect of GPER1 activation on nociceptor excitability. Therefore, a human dermal fibroblast cell line was successfully reprogrammed into the iPSC line BO-VC1 and subsequently differentiated into nociceptors expressing GPER1 besides TRPV1 and the Twik-related spinal cord potassium channel (TRESK). The activation of GPER1 by its specific agonist G-1 led to significantly reduced action potential firing rates and TRPV1-mediated calcium influx. In addition, GPER1 was found to downregulate TRPV1-mediated ion currents upon G-1 treatment in a human embryonic kidney cell -based model. Our findings support the hypothesis that GPER1 activation silences neuronal excitability in nociceptors, probably being a candidate for future research focusing on targeted pain modulation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Vulvar squamous cell carcinoma (VSCC), while relatively rare, is associated with significant morbidity. Activation of G-protein coupled estrogen receptor 1 (GPER1), which has a tumor-suppressing effect in VSCC, leads to reduced expression of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1). PAI-1, a key regulator of the plasminogen activation system, is overexpressed in various cancers and is linked to poor prognosis. Its role and potential as a therapeutic target in VSCC remain poorly explored. This study investigated the effects of the specific PAI-1 inhibitor tiplaxtinin (PAI-039, TPX) on the aggressive behavior of VSCC cells in vitro.Expression of PAI-1 was verified by western blot. The effects of TPX treatment on viability, proliferation, migration, and invasion of A431 and Cal-39 VSCC cells were assessed using AlamarBlue, crystal violet, gap closure, and Boyden chamber assays, respectively. Apoptosis was examined using the Annexin V/propidium iodide (PI) assay.Both VSCC cell lines showed PAI-1 expression. With increasing TPX concentrations, viability and proliferation of the VSCC cells decreased significantly. Cell migration and invasion were both significantly reduced under treatment with the PAI-1 inhibitor. Apoptosis was not significantly induced by TPX.PAI-1 inhibitor TPX showed a strong inhibitory effect on VSCC cells, significantly reducing their viability, proliferation, migration and invasive capacity. This compound showed a strong ability to suppress important cell functions associated with cancer progression, making it a promising candidate for VSCC therapy to specifically inhibit growth and spread of VSCC.Copyright © 2026, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is mainly dependent on glioma stem cells (GSCs) and aberrant epigenetic modifications for its malignancy. Lysine acetyltransferase 2A (KAT2A) is involved in histone acetylation and has been implicated in stem cell differentiation and metabolic plasticity; however, its precise role in GSC differentiation remains elusive. In this study, we investigated the mechanisms of Kat2a regulates GSC differentiation and metabolic reprogramming. We found that KAT2A is highly expressed in GBM and GSCs. Downregulation of Kat2a reduced the proliferation and self-renewal ability of GSCs while promoting their differentiation toward a neuronal lineage. Transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses were performed to identify potential downstream targets, and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) was used to validate the underlying molecular mechanisms. Metabolic function was assessed by measuring mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS), mitochondrial ROS, and ATP production. Oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) status was evaluated based on oxygen consumption rate (OCR) and extracellular acidification rate (ECAR). Our results showed that Kat2a triggers H3K9 acetylation at the Hsp90aa1 promoter. Mutation Loop3 residues within acetyl-CoA binding domain of Kat2a reduced H3K9 acetylation and Hsp90aa1 expression, which are required for mitochondrial OXPHOS and the maintenance of GSC stemness. In orthotopic glioma mouse models, downregulation of Kat2a significantly suppressed tumor growth in vivo. Together, these findings demonstrate that Kat2a promotes Hsp90aa1 expression via the H3K9 acetylation, thereby maintaining GSC stemness through metabolic reprogramming.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Prostate cancer ranks as the most diagnosed oncological disease in Slovak men and the third most common cause of their cancer related mortality. G-protein coupled estrogen receptor 1 (GPER1) is estrogen receptor mediating fast non-genomic estrogen signaling and shown potential as therapeutic target for later stages of the disease and in chemoprevention. However, little is currently known about the impact of genetic variability in the GPER1 gene on the prostate cancer risk and disease characteristics.Genomic DNA samples isolated from peripheral blood of 701 prostate cancer patients and 659 healthy men were used for the single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis. The presence of GPER1 SNPs (rs3808350, rs3808351, rs11544331) was determined by ARMS-PCR. GPER1 expression was quantified by semi-quantitative RT-PCR using mRNA isolated from prostate cancer tissues and using benign prostate hyperplasia tissues as a control. The GPER1 SNP rs3808350 was associated with a higher risk of developing prostate cancer, especially in patients with a Gleason score ≥ 7 and with nodal and distant metastases. No association was found between the rs3808351 and rs11544331 and prostate cancer. No significant changes in GPER1 expression were found.The GPER1 rs3808350 was associated with a higher risk of prostate cancer as well as with its characteristics and appears to influence prostate cancer susceptibility and aggressiveness. In the future, these findings could help in personalized treatment and prognosis determination.© 2026. The Author(s).
The SRY-box transcription factor 17 (SOX17) plays a critical role in tumorigenesis and tumor progression and reshaping the tumor immune ecosystem in several cancer types, but its role in pancreatic cancer (PC) remains unknown.A total of 168 patients with PC who underwent curative resection were consecutively enrolled, and immunohistochemical (IHC) staining was performed, followed by Kaplan-Meier and Cox proportional hazards regression analyses. Meanwhile, specific markers of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) and PD-L1 expression were detected by IHC staining, and their correlation with SOX17 were evaluated. Finally, single-cell and bulk RNA-seq analyses of public datasets were used to validate the expression profile of SOX17 in PC.The Kaplan-Meier curve showed that high SOX17 expression was correlated with a longer overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS) in patients with PC. Univariate (hazard ratio [HR] = 0.593, P = 0.005 for OS; HR = 0.602, P = 0.012 for DFS) and multivariate (HR = 0.662, P = 0.042 for OS; HR = 0.602, P = 0.036 for DFS) Cox regression analyses demonstrated that high SOX17 expression was an independent favorable prognostic factor. The correlation analysis showed that SOX17 expression was correlated with the expression of CD8+ TILs (P = 0.012) and FAP+ CAFs (P = 0.011). The correlations between SOX17 and CD8+ TILs were validated by multiple algorithms through single-cell and bulk RNA-seq analyses.The present study demonstrates that SOX17 serves as a significant prognostic marker and reflects the tumor immune ecosystem in pancreatic cancer.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Both rare and common variants in the SRY-Box Transcription Factor 17 (SOX17) locus are associated with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). SOX17 dysregulation leads to pulmonary artery endothelial cell (PAEC) dysfunction and the obstructive remodelling that characterises PAH.Impaired SOX17 expression contributes to the pathogenesis of PAH. Restoring the function of SOX17 or its downstream targets using compounds that mimic its transcriptomic signature will rescue PAEC dysfunction and prevent PAH development.We defined thousands of genes with direct SOX17 genomic binding sites and identified important potential binding partners, including ETS-transcription factors such as ERG by ChIP-seq in PAECs. Through the integration of three PAEC RNA-seq datasets involving overexpression and silencing of SOX17, we defined a robust SOX17 transcriptomic signature. In PAH patients, circulating plasma protein levels of 10 SOX17 signature genes were associated with the SOX17 common risk variants. This included EFNB2 and UNC5B; knockdown of these genes altered the viability and apoptosis of PAECs in response to TNFα treatment. The drug-transcriptome database Connectivity Map (CMap) was used to predict novel potential therapeutic compounds to correct the SOX17 transcriptomic signature. Five compounds were selected for in vitro testing and were able to partially reinstate SOX17 target gene expression in PAECs. One compound, BX-912, was selected for in vivo testing as it corrected the levels of multiple target genes, including suppressing Runt-related transcription factor-1 (RUNX1). BX-912 blocked the development of pulmonary hypertension in mice lacking the SOX17 enhancer associated with human disease.We have demonstrated the therapeutic potential of targeting SOX17 in PAH through correction of its gene targets, identifying BX-912 as a lead compound with in vivo efficacy.
As a possible target for pro- or anti-angiogenic therapy, the process of angiogenesis has become more widely recognized in disease and is essential in normal growth and development. The current study examined the immunological activities of macrophages during angiogenesis in quail embryos. CD68 was used to identify perivascular macrophages, which also retained expression of some stem cell markers, including CD34 and CD117, and also CD21. The macrophages also expressed vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a key promoter of angiogenesis, and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), which degrades matrix components to facilitate the formation of new blood vessels. The growth factor bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) and platelet-derived growth factor receptor-alpha (PDGF-α), which are often associated with mesenchymal cell recruitment and vascularization, were also expressed in the perivascular macrophages. More recently, studies investigating macrophages have become more prominent due to their proposed effects on endothelial cells. Macrophages are also increasingly considered potential targets for pro- or anti-angiogenic therapies, and this research provides insights into protein expression and roles in angiogenesis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Radiation therapy for rectal cancer often causes long-term bowel dysfunction. We investigated radiation-associated motility changes in human rectal smooth muscle, focusing on the role of platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha-positive (PDGFRα⁺) cells and interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC). Human rectal tissues were obtained from patients undergoing surgery with (n=61) or without (n=51) preoperative concurrent chemoradiotherapy (CCRT). Isometric tension recordings were used to assess myogenic responses to potassium chloride (KCl), acetylcholine (ACh), sodium nitroprusside (SNP), and adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Neurogenic components were assessed using electrical field stimulation. Intracellular microelectrode recordings measured slow wave activity. Expression of interstitial cells, neuronal cells and smooth muscle cells was assessed by immunohistochemistry and quantitative PCR. ATP-induced relaxation and ATP-associated suppression of slow wave activity were significantly attenuated in irradiated rectal tissue, while responses to KCl, ACh, and SNP were preserved. PDGFRα and Kit expression levels were markedly decreased in irradiated tissue (P < 0.001), whereas NOS1, VAChT, and MYH11 expression levels remained unchanged. Immunostaining confirmed reduced PDGFRα⁺ cells and ICC in irradiated tissue. Pelvic irradiation delivered in the context of preoperative CCRT was associated with reduced PDGFRα⁺ cells and ICC, with associated attenuation of ATP-mediated inhibitory responses, which may contribute to rectal dysmotility. These results suggest that preserving purinergic signaling may offer a potential therapeutic approach to improve long-term bowel function after pelvic radiotherapy.
Spontaneous phasic contractions (SPCs) in the epididymal duct play an important role in transport and maturation of sperm. In proximal cauda of the rat epididymis, platelet-derived growth factor receptor α (PDGFRα)-positive smooth muscle cells (SMCs) generate ANO1 Ca2+-activated chloride channels (CaCCs)-dependent spontaneous transient inward currents (STICs) to electrically drive SPCs.Here, we explored whether epididymal ANO1+, PDGFRα+ cells may have region-specific functions in generating SPCs.Patch clamp technique was applied to isolated epididymal cells dispersed from the rat epididymis. Membrane potential changes and SPCs were recorded from epididymal tissue preparations using an intracellular microelectrode and video imaging, respectively. To verify ANO1 currents in PDGFRα+ SMCs, patch clamp recordings and immunohistochemistry were performed using PDGFRα-eGFP mice.Rat epididymal cells of both proximal cauda and caput developed spontaneous transient depolarizations (STDs) that were inhibited by Ani9 (3 µM), the ANO1-specific inhibitor, CPA (10 µM), a sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase (SERCA) inhibitor, or nifedipine (1 µM), an L-type voltage-dependent Ca2+ channel (LVDCC) inhibitor. Ani9 (10 µM) slowed slow waves and associated SPCs in proximal cauda but not the caput. In the mouse epididymis, the proximal cauda consisted of a few layers of SMCs where SMCs in the innermost layer primarily expressed PDGFRα, whereas the caput was composed of one or two layers of PDGFRα+ SMCs. In both regions, Ani9 (3 µM) abolished STICs in PDGFRα+ SMCs that co-expressed ANO1. However, Ani9 (10 µM) slowed SPCs in the proximal cauda but not the caput.Despite the fact that epididymal PDGFRα+ SMCs in both the proximal cauda and caput develop ANO1-dependent STICs, they appear to serve as pacemaker cells driving SPCs in the proximal cauda, whereas corresponding cells in the caput have a role other than SPCs' pacemaking.© 2026 The Author(s). Andrology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of American Society of Andrology and European Academy of Andrology.
: Morphological and functional changes occur after loop ileostomy surgery such as villous atrophy and decreased contractility. This study aims to examine the changes in motility of the proximal and distal limbs of the ileostomy. Morphological, molecular and functional approaches of smooth muscle are attempted to elucidate the cause of the changes in motility.: Full thickness strips of circular muscle were prepared from 25 patients (median age 64 years). Western blot was performed to quantify the expression of contractile proteins. Expression of genes was quantified using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction.: The distal limb showed morphological atrophy and a significant reduction in the contractile response to acetylcholine and potassium chloride, as well as a reduced relaxation response to sodium nitroprusside. However, no changes in the number of platelet derived growth factor receptor-α-positive (PDGFRα+) cells and interstitial cell of Cajal (ICC) were observed between the proximal and distal limbs. Western blot analysis confirmed that the expression levels of proteins associated with contraction such as myosin phosphatase targeting subunit 1, protein kinase C-potentiated phosphatase inhibitor protein-17 kDa, and Rho-associated, coiled-coil containing protein kinase 1, were significantly down-regulated in the distal limb. Despite the decrease in the expression of these proteins, neuronal cells and smooth muscle cells were preserved in the distal limb that has been diverted after ileostomy.: Although morphological, molecular and motility changes including down-regulation of contractile protein expression were observed in the distal loop, number of PDGFRα+ cells, ICCs, and neuronal cells were preserved. These results may explain restoration of the bowel motility after ileostomy take-down with low incidence of ileus.
Intestinal epithelial cells rely on a complex array of stromal signals to determine their fate and function along the crypt-villus axis, but the precise cellular sources and combinations of signals at each position remain poorly defined.We generated an atlas of Foxl1-lineage cells along the crypt-villus axis using single-cell RNA sequencing integrated with in situ hybridization, immunofluorescence, and reporter mouse models.We identify 4 spatially distinct Foxl1-lineage subepithelial populations: crypt, villus-base, villus-mid and villus-tip, that segregate into 2 related pairs. Crypt and villus-mid Foxl1-lineage cells share a low platelet-derived growth factor receptor α transcriptional program enriched for canonical Wnts and R-spondins, consistent with regenerative signaling functions. In contrast, villus-base and villus-tip Foxl1-lineage cells are platelet-derived growth factor receptor α-high and express noncanonical Wnt5a and bone morphogenetic protein ligands. Crypt Foxl1-lineage cells are additionally enriched for extracellular matrix proteins and complement components, whereas villus-base Foxl1-lineage cells express contractility-associated genes, suggesting a role in villus architecture. Villus-mid Foxl1-lineage cells display signatures of immune regulation and inflammation, whereas villus-tip Foxl1-lineage cells are specialized for regulation of ribonucleoprotein complexes and nutrient sensing.This atlas provides a foundational resource for understanding how diverse stromal populations coordinate signaling niches and influence intestinal epithelial homeostasis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Fibro-Adipogenic Progenitors (FAPs) are muscle-resident mesenchymal stromal cells that are essential for skeletal muscle regeneration, but also drive pathological fibrosis and adiposity. FAP properties have been modulated by transgenic strategies, but the field lacks an efficient tool for specific, localized, in vivo FAP targeting. Adeno-Associated Viruses (AAVs) have become a standard for delivery of transgenes with both natural and engineered cell specificity for uptake, or tropism. The goal of this study was to develop an AAV system with FAP specificity. We isolated the promoter for murine platelet derived growth factor receptor alpha (Pdgfra), a FAP-specific marker, to drive expression of the reporter, ZsGreen. Cell transfection confirmed that full-length (2.2 kb) and truncated (826 bp) promoters restricted expression to FAPs, with the 826 bp sequence providing higher gene expression. Next, we compared AAV5 and AAV8 serotypes, packaging each promoter sequence versus the CMV promoter or to no vector. Following intramuscular AAV injection (1 × 1011vg/TA), immunofluorescence and cell-sorting revealed that AAV5 harboring the 826 bp Pdgfra promoter provided optimal FAP specificity and expression level. Importantly, minimal off-target expression in myofibers or other mononucleated populations, including endothelial, immune, and satellite cells was found. These results demonstrate the development of an AAV-based tool for precise, in vivo manipulation of FAPs.© 2026. The Author(s).
Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) reprograms host cellular pathways to promote viral persistence and tumor development by supporting the survival and expansion of infected and bystander cells. Among the signaling axes implicated in this process, oncogenic activation of receptor tyrosine kinases, particularly platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha (PDGFRA), is a well-established hallmark of Kaposi sarcoma pathogenesis. However, the impact of virus-driven cell surface glycosylation changes in PDGFRA-associated signaling remains uncertain. Here, we identified a critical role for KSHV in reshaping the glycosylation landscape of mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs), thereby reprogramming PDGFRA signaling. We show that KSHV infection enhances a unique glycan profile in human and mouse MSCs, enriched in branched complex N-glycans with limited α(2-6) sialylation, Transcriptomic analyses of KSHV-infected MSCs and Kaposi's Sarcoma patient samples revealed a coordinated dysregulation of pathways involved in carbohydrate metabolism, nucleotide-sugar transport, and sialic acid turnover, with a particular focus on sialic acid turnover (NPL/NEU3), the UDP-N-acetylglucosamine transporters SLC35A3/B4, and complex N-glycan elongation (MGAT5/B3GNT2/B4GALT1) as critical nodes underlying reduced α(2-6) sialylation and increased N-glycan branching. This remodeled glycan landscape contributes to create a permissive context for galectin-1 (Gal-1) binding, which in turn enhances PDGFRA activation and downstream signaling. These findings identify an integral component of KSHV-driven mesenchymal cell reprogramming, unveiling a lectin-dependent mechanism of RTK activation in Kaposi sarcoma pathogenesis.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558428 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552253 is a review article
Moesin (Msn) is a member of the ERM (Ezrin, Radixin, and Moesin) protein family implicated in cell-cell recognition, cell adhesion, and migration. In this work, we identified Msn as an ανβ3 integrin-interacting molecule in human endothelial cells, with a role in endothelial cell signaling and angiogenesis. Msn and its active phosphorylated form are highly expressed in endothelial cells in vitro and in vivo. Pleiotrophin and vascular endothelial growth factor A165 (VEGFA165), increase Msn phosphorylation and decrease the interaction of Msn with ανβ3 integrin. Downregulation of Msn expression in endothelial cells using siRNA reduced VEGF receptor 2 (VEGFR2) expression and activation. It also decreased permeability, collective cell migration, and tube formation in vitro, concomitant with reduced angiogenesis and blood-brain barrier permeability in Msn knockout mice. Concurrently, it decreased β3 integrin expression, increased the c-Src- and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-dependent cell-surface localization of nucleolin, and activated ERK1/2 kinases and cMet. Pharmacological inhibitors of c-Src, PI3K, cell-surface nucleolin, ERK1/2, and cMet, but not of VEGFR2 or αvβ3 integrin, abolished siMsn-induced individual-cell motility. Taken together, these findings identify a novel binding partner of the αvβ3 integrin that regulates the activation of cMet and VEGFR2 in endothelial cells, clarifying the mechanisms underlying the activation of multiple angiogenic pathways and highlighting potential new targets for improving anti-angiogenic therapies.© 2026. The Author(s).
The ovarian follicle is an enclosed microenvironment that ensures oocyte growth and maturation, making it essential for female fertility. Normal folliculogenesis development and oocyte maturation strictly rely on orchestrated intercellular interactions among the mural granulosa cells (MGCs), cumulus cells (CCs), and the oocyte within antral follicles. Despite the importance, how these cell populations communicate remains largely unknown. Due to this knowledge gap, current oocyte in vitro maturation (IVM) systems fail to fully replicate the physiological follicular microenvironment due to the lack of MGC regulation, leading to poor oocyte quality and lower success rates of assisted reproductive technologies.RNA-seq was performed on MGCs, CCs, and oocytes isolated from single bovine antral follicles at different developmental stages (3-5 mm, 6-8 mm and 9-12 mm). Using a ligand-receptor interaction scoring strategy, we constructed a dynamic intrafollicular interaction map. We revealed that MGCs are the most active cell type, acting as either secretors or receivers, based on the number of ligands and receptors it expresses, as well as the number of interaction pairs it establishes with other cell types. Intriguingly, intrafollicular crosstalk exhibits spatiotemporal commonality, characterized by shared ligand-receptor usage and potential functional redundancy across cell types and stages. Notably, the intrafollicular communication map enables the prediction of MGC-secreted factors that can improve the oocyte quality after IVM. Based on the predicted candidate factors, we have confirmed that supplementation with pleiotrophin (PTN) significantly improved in vitro matured oocyte quality and subsequent embryonic development. In addition, we also revealed significant heterogeneity at single-follicle resolution, unhealthy follicles showed aberrant activation or loss of partial core interaction signaling, supporting the hypothesis that these interactions play a critical role in determining follicular fate.By reconstructing a map of intrafollicular interactions, our study provides novel insights and important clues for understanding cellular and molecular mechanisms that fine-tune antral folliculogenesis. We also offer a roadmap for predicting candidate factors that can be used for optimizing mammalian in vitro embryo production systems.© 2026. The Author(s).
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia. Pleiotrophin (PTN) is a neurotrophic factor relevant for central nervous system repair, neuron differentiation and survival. It is upregulated in different neuroinflammatory conditions. PTN is an endogenous inhibitor of Receptor Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase (RPTP) β/ζ. In a previous study, we showed that a short treatment with the RPTPβ/ζ inhibitor MY10 reduced amyloid beta (Aβ) plaque formation and glial activation in old APP/PS1 mice. Nevertheless, these preliminary data required new studies to prove the disease-modifying potential of RPTPβ/ζ inhibition by using younger animals and a longer treatment with MY10. Thus, we have now treated for 3 months five- to seven-month-old wild type (WT) and APP/PS1 mice with MY10. This treatment decreased Aβ plaque formation and increased the number of microglial cells in the dorsal subiculum of APP/PS1 mice. In addition, MY10 reduced the number of GFAP+, not Iba1+, cells surrounding Aβ plaques. As expected, PTN expression was upregulated in the brain of APP/PS1 compared to WT mice and it was mainly found in Iba1+ and GFAP+ cells. Interestingly, treatment with MY10 significantly decreased the expression of PTN and the number of PTN-expressing Iba1+ and GFAP+ cells. MY10 induced a significant decrease of Mmp9 expression in the hippocampus of APP/PS1 mice, a key enzyme in AD progression. In summary, chronic inhibition of RPTPβ/ζ in APP/PS1 mice reduces Aβ plaque deposition, modulating glial-plaque interactions and the expression of specific genes including Ptn and its receptor.Copyright © 2026 Fontán-Baselga, Cañeque-Rufo, Rivera-Illades, Gramage, Zapico, de Pascual-Teresa, Ramos-Álvarez, Vicente-Rodríguez and Herradón.
This study aimed to characterize cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1) expression in bladder cancer (BC), elucidate its role in intercellular signaling and mitosis, and identify small-molecule inhibitors targeting CDK1.RNA sequencing data from multiple databases were integrated, with immunohistochemistry on tissue microarrays validating protein expression. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), spatial transcriptomics (ST), gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), and molecular docking with molecular dynamics (MD) simulations were performed.CDK1 mRNA and protein were significantly overexpressed in BC tissues. CDK1 expression correlated with patient age and race. CDK1 was predominantly expressed in epithelial cells and central to pleiotrophin (PTN) pathway-mediated intercellular communication; virtual CDK1 knockout markedly reduced PTN signaling strength. ST confirmed CDK1 enrichment in tumor regions. GSEA linked CDK1 to mitosis and chromosome segregation, and scRNA-seq analyses revealed a PTN-CDK1-mitosis regulatory axis active specifically in epithelial cells. Dinaciclib showed favorable MD stability as a CDK1 inhibitor.CDK1 is significantly overexpressed in BC with good discriminatory ability. Predominantly expressed in BC epithelial cells, CDK1 may be activated by PTN signaling to drive mitosis. MD simulations support Dinaciclib as a promising CDK1-targeting inhibitor.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42390655 is a review article
The present study investigated the effect of a 3D-printed nanocomposite scaffold on bone healing in vivo. The scaffolds used were made from the bioresorbable thermoplastic polycaprolactone polymer, blended with Multi-Walled Carbon Nanotubes functionalized with chitosan, and manufactured with a rectilinear infill pattern and interconnected pores of 500 μm in size. The study included three groups of 10 Wistar rats, in which a 2 mm bone defect was created in the middle of the right femur. In the scaffold/peptide group, the gap was filled with the scaffold loaded with a peptide corresponding to human pleiotrophin amino acids 48-56 (PTN48-56), and the fracture was stabilized with a 12 mm K-wire as an intramedullary nail. In the scaffold group, the scaffold did not contain the peptide, and in the control group, the bone defect was stabilized without the use of a scaffold. Radiological examination revealed that bone healing was achieved on average in 6.6 weeks in the scaffold/peptide group, 7.2 weeks in the scaffold group, and 8.1 weeks in the control group. Histopathological examination performed 2 weeks postoperatively showed that angiogenesis in the scaffold/peptide group was 1.5 times higher than in the scaffold group and 2.5 times higher than in the control group. In conclusion, our osteo-inductive 3D-printed scaffold covered with PTN48-56 is a promising option for accelerating bone defect healing.
Methylmalonic acidemia is an inherited neurometabolic disorder characterized by accumulation of methylmalonic acid (MMA) in different tissues, particularly in the brain. As a result, patients frequently exhibit progressive neurological deterioration, accompanied by episodes of acute encephalopathy following metabolic decompensation. Astrocytes are glial cells that maintain the central nervous system homeostasis and may be important cellular targets of MMA-induced dysfunction. However, most in vitro experimental models for the study of methylmalonic acidemia are based on short-term exposure to the toxic metabolites that accumulate in patients. In this study, we used a prolonged experimental model, which has not been yet explored in the context of glial cells, focusing on the inflammatory response, glutamate metabolism, and putative signaling pathways that can contribute to understanding cellular damage observed in methylmalonic acidemia. It is emphasized that MMA is persistently elevated in the brain of the affected patients. Prolonged MMA exposure induced inflammation with significant increase in gene expression of cyclooxygenase 2, interleukin (IL)-1β and its receptor (IL1R1), and IL-6, accompanied by a decrease in IL-10 expression. MMA also increased glutamate uptake and the activity and gene expression of the enzyme glutamine synthetase, while it downregulated glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF). The expression of NFκB, p38 MAPK, Nrf2, heme oxygenase 1, PGC-1α, and sirtuin 1 were also modulated by MMA treatment, indicating the critical role of these signaling pathways in the MMA-induced persistent gliotoxicity. Finally, it is conceivable that these changes may significantly contribute to clarify the pathogenesis of methylmalonic acidemia.© 2026. The Author(s).
To analyze the expression level of heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein U (hnRNP U) and its correlation with prognosis in patients with multiple myeloma (MM), and explore the functional role as well as molecular mechanism of hnRNP U, thereby providing a theoretical basis for development of hnRNP U as a novel therapeutic target for MM.Based on Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database, the expression of hnRNP U in plasma cell diseases and healthy controls was compared. Based on the GSE9782 dataset (n =264), patients were divided into high expression group (n =114) and low expression group (n =150) according to the median expression level of hnRNP U . Overall survival (OS) between the two groups was compared. RPMI 8226, NCI-H929 and MM.1S cell lines were selected as tool cell lines. Following knockdown of hnRNP U by shRNA, the cell proliferation was detected by CCK-8. The apoptosis of MM cells was analyzed by Annexin V/7-AAD staining, and cell cycle was detected by BrdU/DAPI staining followed by flow cytometric analysis. The effect of hnRNP U on the biological characteristics of human MM cells was explored. The effect of knockdown of hnRNP U on DNA damage response pathways was analyzed by Western blot.Analysis of GSE5900 and GSE2113 datasets showed that the mRNA level of hnRNP U rose with the increased degree of malignancy of plasma cell diseases. Survival curve analysis of GSE9782 dataset showed that the high expression group of hnRNP U had a shorter OS than that of the low expression group. Down-regulation of hnRNP U in MM cell lines RPMI 8226, NCI-H929 and MM.1S could inhibit the cell proliferation, promote cell apoptosis and arrest the cell cycle. After knocking down hnRNP U, the expression levels of cleaved PARP and p-H2A.X, as the important markers of activated DNA damage pathway, were significantly increased in MM cells.hnRNP U is highly expressed in several plasma cell diseases including MM, and the high expression of hnRNP U in MM patients predicts poor prognosis. Knocking down hnRNP U can inhibit the malignant progression of MM cells, which is possibly associated with aggravated DNA damage.
m5C modification plays a vital role in the progression of human cancers, including breast cancer (BC), but the function of NOP2/Sun RNA methyltransferase 2 (NSUN2), an RNA m5C modification enzyme, remains largely unclear.qRT-PCR, western blot and IHC assays were carried out to determine the expression of NSUN2, poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP9) and Y box binding protein 1 (YBX1). EdU, flow cytometry, transwell, tube formation and sphere formation assays were conducted to evaluate cell proliferation, apoptosis, invasion, angiogenesis and stemness, respectively. ELISA was performed to examine the concentrations of inflammatory factors. RIP and pull-down assays were used to verify the interaction between NSUN2/YBX1 and PARP9. Murine xenograft model was constructed to explore the functions of NSUN2 and PARP9 in tumor growth in vivo.PARP9 silencing suppressed the proliferation, invasion, angiogenesis, stemness and immune escape, and promoted apoptosis in BC cells in vitro. Mechanically, NSUN2 functioned as an m5C writer that catalyzed m5C modification of PARP9 mRNA, while YBX1 acted as an m5C reader that recognized the modified transcript and enhanced its stability, thereby elevating PARP9 expression in BC cells. YBX1 could elevate PARP9 expression in BC cells. Moreover, NSUN2 knockdown restrained the malignant behaviors of BC cells, with PARP9 overexpression restored the effects. In addition, NSUN2 knockdown blocked tumorigenesis in vivo by regulating PARP9 expression.NSUN2-mediated m5C modification stabilizes PARP9 mRNA and is associated with enhanced BC progression and immune escape. The results broadened our understanding of the pathogenic mechanism of BC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42454353 is a review article
This study investigated the protective effects of milk polar lipids (MPL) against non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and explored the underlying mechanisms using a high-fat high-sucrose (HFHS) diet-induced mouse model. MPL diet significantly reduced body weight gain, adiposity, and hepatic lipid accumulation, in addition to decreasing serum levels of liver injury markers. Mechanistically, MPL diet activated hepatic Wnt/β-catenin signaling, as evidenced by increased expression of low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 6 (LRP6), Wnt family member 3 A (Wnt3a), and β-catenin. Concurrently, MPL treatment suppressed peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) and downstream lipogenic proteins involved in triglyceride synthesis and de novo lipogenesis. In addition, MPL diet markedly reshaped the gut microbiota composition disrupted by HFHS feeding. Notably, MPL group showed a significant increased the abundance of Akkermansia muciniphila and short-chain fatty acid-producing bacteria, including members of Romboutsia and Christensenellaceae. These findings demonstrate that dietary MPL effectively attenuates HFHS diet-induced NAFLD through coordinated regulation of hepatic Wnt-PPARγ signaling and gut microbial ecology.© 2026. The Author(s).
Stratified epithelial differentiation involves transcriptional and proteomic remodeling. Here, multiomic profiling implicated ubiquitin and related posttranslational networks in differentiation dynamics. Systematic perturbation of ubiquitin-like machinery in primary human keratinocytes which uncovered opposite functions of neural-precursor-cell-expressed, developmentally down-regulated 8 (NEDD8) and small ubiquitin-related modifier 2 (SUMO2). Generation of conditional knockout mice established essential roles for NEDD8 in progenitor maintenance, skin regeneration, and inflammation, whereas SUMO2 was required for differentiation. Beyond ubiquitin-proteasome-concordant changes, NEDD8 directed proteomic regulation correlated with RNA abundance. Integration of immunoprecipitation- mass spectrometry with genome-wide suppressor screening revealed context-specific NEDDylation dependencies. Among effectors, heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein U (HNRNPU) emerged as a posttranscriptional regulator of epithelial cell state whose RNA binding repertoire was modulated by NEDDylation. Thus, NEDD8 and SUMO2 play opposite roles in epithelial homeostasis, regeneration, and inflammation, demonstrating multiple ways ubiquitin-like networks govern tissue homeostasis.
Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a fatal disease characterized by pulmonary vascular remodeling, primarily driven by excessive proliferation of pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells (PASMCs). Although noncoding RNAs, such as circular RNAs, have been implicated in PH, the role of tRNA-derived small RNA remains poorly understood. Among them, i-tRF (internal tRNA-derived fragment)-Asp represents a novel tRNA-derived small RNA whose function in hypoxic PH is unknown. This study aims to investigate whether i-tRF-Asp contributes to PASMC proliferation and vascular remodeling in hypoxic PH.To elucidate the functional role of i-tRF-Asp, loss-of-function experiments were conducted in vitro using hypoxic mouse PASMCs, alongside in vivo studies using both SuHx (Sugen5416+hypoxia) induced PH models in both adult male C57BL/6 mice and Sprague-Dawley rats. These models employed antisense oligonucleotide inhibitors and adeno-associated virus-mediated silencing. The underlying mechanisms were further explored via RNA immunoprecipitation, liquid-liquid phase separation assays, cell proliferation assessment, Western blot, alternative splicing profiling, and molecular dynamics simulation.Inhibition of i-tRF-Asp ameliorated hypoxia-induced pulmonary vascular remodeling, primarily through suppressing excessive proliferation of mouse PASMCs. Further analysis indicated that i-tRF-Asp facilitates liquid-liquid phase separation of hnRNPU (heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein U). This process mediates selective recruitment of Tcf7l2 (transcription factor 7-like 2) pre-mRNA and promotes alternative splicing, resulting in a pro-proliferative Tcf7l2 transcript variant that drives mouse PASMC proliferation. Furthermore, we have identified that the endonuclease ERN1 (endoribonuclease IRE1) can upregulate the expression of i-tRF-Asp.The endoribonuclease ERN1 upregulates the expression of i-tRF-Asp, which in turn facilitates mouse PASMC proliferation and pulmonary vascular remodeling. This process is driven by hnRNPU liquid-liquid phase separation-dependent alternative splicing of the long Tcf7l2 transcript isoform.
Cervical cancer remains a major global health burden, yet the molecular mechanisms driving its metabolic reprogramming are incompletely understood. Here, we identify heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein U (HNRNPU) as a novel non-histone substrate of lysine lactylation that links lactate accumulation to serine metabolism and tumor progression. We demonstrate that lactylation at lysine 181 (K181) stabilizes HNRNPU, enhances its binding to PHGDH mRNA, and maintains the exon 1-containing PHGDH transcript and mRNA stability, thereby sustaining PHGDH expression and activating the serine biosynthesis pathway. This metabolic rewiring promotes redox homeostasis, nucleotide synthesis, and cervical cancer cell proliferation both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, we reveal a competitive interplay between lactylation and NAA50-mediated acetylation at K181, establishing a dynamic post-translational modification switch that fine-tunes HNRNPU function. Importantly, pharmacological inhibition of HNRNPU K181 lactylation by Pazopanib suppresses PHGDH expression and tumor growth, underscoring its translational potential. Collectively, our findings uncover a lactate-driven regulatory axis in which HNRNPU K181 lactylation integrates metabolic signaling with post-transcriptional regulation to promote cervical cancer progression, providing a promising therapeutic avenue for targeting metabolic vulnerabilities in malignancies.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein U (hnRNPU) is a ubiquitously expressed, pleiotropic DNA and RNA binding protein involved in RNA metabolism. Heterozygous HNRNPU nonsense mutations have been observed in a variety of B-cell lymphomas, but the functional consequence of these mutations remains largely unknown. Through a large meta-analysis of genome- and exome-wide sequencing data, we find that these mutations are more common among tumors with MYC rearrangements, including high-grade B-cell lymphoma with MYC and BCL2 and/or BCL6 rearrangements (12.1%), and Burkitt lymphoma (5.2%). Using isogenic cell line models, we demonstrate that HNRNPU is a haploinsufficient tumor suppressor, with inactivation of a single allele promoting cell cycle entry through widespread alteration of the gene expression and splicing landscape. We show that reduced hnRNPU expression consistently lowers MYC levels while simultaneously enhancing E2F-driven signaling. This creates a cellular state in which MYC-induced stress may be buffered while cell cycle progression is maintained. Finally, we show that owing to this increased dependence on E2Fs for proliferative signaling, HNRNPU-mutated lymphomas are more sensitive to E2F inhibitors. These results highlight hnRNPU-mediated regulation of MYC and its downstream effects as possible new avenues for therapeutic intervention in MYC-driven lymphomas.© 2026 American Society of Hematology. Published by Elsevier Inc. Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0), permitting only noncommercial, nonderivative use with attribution. All other rights reserved.
Parkinson's disease (PD)-related constipation represents a prevalent and disabling non-motor symptom that imposes a substantial and growing health and economic burden worldwide. Current management strategies, including dietary modification, probiotics, and pharmacological therapies, often provide limited benefit, with potential adverse effects and minimal improvement in other PD-related symptoms. Acupuncture has emerged as a promising complementary therapeutic approach and has demonstrated preliminary clinical efficacy. However, the underlying biological mechanisms and the potential contribution of placebo responses to therapeutic effects remain insufficiently understood.This randomized controlled clinical trial will enroll 66 patients with PD-related constipation and randomly assign them in a 1:1 ratio to the real acupuncture group or the sham acupuncture group. Participants, acupuncturists, outcome assessors, and statisticians will be blinded to group allocation. The 8-week trial consists of a 4-week treatment period followed by a 4-week follow-up period. The primary outcome is the longitudinal change in the Chronic Constipation Severity Score (CCS) over time. Secondary clinical outcomes include weekly complete spontaneous bowel movements (CSBMs), spontaneous bowel movements (SBMs), Bristol Stool Scale (BSS) scores, and Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) scores. In addition, exploratory outcomes include levels of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1), and phosphorylated α-synuclein at serine 129 (pS129-α-syn) measured in biofluid samples. Adverse events will be systematically monitored throughout the trial. The study is conducted in accordance with the SPIRIT guidelines.This trial is designed to evaluate the clinical efficacy of acupuncture for PD-related constipation using a rigorously implemented double-blind, sham acupuncture-controlled design. Although the sham acupuncture procedure may itself induce nonspecific physiological and contextual effects, the use of a standardized double-blind control is intended to reduce expectancy-related bias and improve methodological rigor in the assessment of acupuncture-related outcomes. In addition to clinical symptom evaluation, the integration of SCFAs, HDAC1, and pS129-α-syn allows exploratory investigation of potential biological changes associated with treatment. This trial aims to provide multidimensional evidence regarding possible gut-brain axis-related mechanisms involved in acupuncture treatment for PD-related constipation.The study protocol was registered with the International Traditional Medicine Clinical Trial Registry (ITMCTR 2026000107) on December 7, 2025. The publicly accessible website is: https://itmctr.ccebtcm.org.cn/mgt/search.Copyright © 2026 Lin, Lin, Li, Liu, Gu, Zhang, Wu, Wang, Fan and Zhuang.
Jianpi Bushen Qingchang Huashi Formula (JBQHF) is a traditional Chinese medicine compound of nine herbal ingredients clinically used to treat chronic diarrhea and dysentery syndromes, corresponding to ulcerative colitis (UC). Although clinical evidence supports its efficacy, the underlying mechanism remains unclear.This study sought to define the therapeutic benefit of JBQHF in a murine colitis model and to dissect the underlying mode of action.Ultra-high performance liquid chromatography coupled with quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UHPLC-QTOF-MS) was applied to profile the chemical constituents of JBQHF. Therapeutic efficacy was evaluated in a DSS-induced murine colitis model. Gut bacterial composition and metabolite output were analyzed by 16S rRNA gene sequencing and Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS), respectively. Network pharmacology, deep learning-based virtual screening, and molecular docking were employed to predict candidate active compounds and their potential targets. Immunological assays focused on Histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) expression, HDAC enzymatic activity, histone acetylation status and the T helper 17/regulatory T (Th17/Treg) differentiation axis.JBQHF attenuated colitis as reflected by lower disease activity indices (DAI) and reduced histopathologic injury. Pro-inflammatory mediators were decreased while intestinal tight junction protein levels were elevated. JBQHF was associated with increased gut microbiota-derived butyrate production, reduced colonic HDAC1 expression and HDAC enzymatic activity, elevated Acetyl-H3K9 and Acetyl-H3K27, and a rebalancing of the Th17/Treg ratio. The protective effects of JBQHF were largely abrogated by the HDAC activator ITSA-1. Deep learning-based virtual screening further identified flavonoids within JBQHF as candidate HDAC1 ligands with predicted target selectivity.JBQHF ameliorates experimental colitis via a dual inhibition of HDAC1, providing an integrated mechanism for its clinical application.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disease characterized by synovial hyperplasia, inflammatory cell infiltration, and pathological angiogenesis, ultimately leading to progressive joint damage. Cold-inducible RNA-binding protein (CIRP) has been implicated in inflammatory responses; however, its role in RA-associated angiogenesis remains unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that CIRP gene knockout or pharmacological inhibition using C23 significantly attenuates arthritis severity and reduces synovial angiogenesis in adjuvant-induced arthritis models. In vitro experiments revealed that CIRP promotes human umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVEC) tube formation, migration, and invasion by upregulating the expression of C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) and Delta-like ligand 4 (DLL4). Notably, blocking extracellular CIRP with C23 inhibited CIRP-induced angiogenesis in HUVECs. Further investigations showed that Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) knockdown suppressed CIRP-induced angiogenesis in HUVECs, indicating that CIRP promotes angiogenesis through a TLR4-dependent mechanism. Subsequent mechanistic studies revealed that CIRP upregulates histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) expression via TLR4 in HUVECs. We therefore investigated the role of HDAC1 in CIRP-induced angiogenesis, and found that HDAC1 knockdown significantly inhibited this process. Moreover, CIRP promotes pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) nuclear translocation and suppresses PKM2 lactylation through the TLR4-mediated HDAC1 pathway. Furthermore, The PKM2 lysine 62 to arginine (K62R) mutant enhances PKM2 nuclear translocation and promotes angiogenesis. Taken together, these results suggest that HDAC1-mediated PKM2 delactylation modification regulates CIRP-induced angiogenesis in RA.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42450350 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42410182
Skipped: PubMed ID 42400424 is a review article
Periodontitis is a chronic inflammatory disease that affects the supporting tissues around teeth. A reduction in the pluripotency of periodontal ligament stem cells (PDLSCs) has been identified as a pivotal factor in age-related alveolar bone loss. This study investigated the effects of special AT-rich binding protein 1 (SATB1) on the osteogenic differentiation capacity of PDLSCs under H2O2-induced senescent conditions and its potential mechanisms, thereby providing new insights into periodontal regeneration in patients with periodontitis.The osteogenic differentiation capacity of PDLSCs was determined by alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, alizarin red S (ARS) staining, and western blotting. Co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) was used to detect the binding of SATB1 to histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) and a ubiquitination assay was employed to detect the protein stability of SATB1.Under normal and H2O2-stimulation conditions, SATB1 enhances osteogenic differentiation of PDLSCs by activating the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling pathways. The Co-IP results indicated that SATB1 could physically bind to HDAC1 and the binding of SATB1 and HDAC1 proteins decreased under H2O2-induced senescent conditions. In addition, HDAC1 promoted the expression of SATB1 and rescued the osteogenic differentiation capacity of PDLSCs via the activation of the p38 MAPK pathway under senescent conditions. Nevertheless, HDAC1 deacetylation mutant (HDAC1-H141A-MUT) did not affect the binding of SATB1 and HDAC1 but lost the effect of upregulating the expression of SATB1. Moreover, HDAC1-H141A-MUT lost the ability to promote the osteogenic differentiation of PDLSCs and the activation of the p38 MAPK signaling pathway. Furthermore, protein half-life experiments indicated that HDAC1 hindered the degradation of the SATB1 protein, whereas HDAC1-H141A-MUT lost this function. In the end, ubiquitination assay demonstrated that HDAC1 inhibited the ubiquitination of SATB1, while HDAC1-H141A-MUT has no effect on the ubiquitination of SATB1 protein.SATB1 modulated the osteogenic differentiation of PDLSCs through HDAC1 mediated non-histone protein deacetylation and ubiquitination and through the p38 MAPK pathway under H2O2-induced senescence conditions. Therefore, this new mechanism provides a feasible strategy for promoting periodontal tissue regeneration.© 2026. The Author(s).
SNAIL is a transcription factor that plays a role in development and cancer. SNAIL contains an N-terminal SNAG domain that is a high-affinity ligand for the histone substrate binding lysine-specific demethylase 1 (LSD1). SNAIL also contains a C-terminal zinc finger domain that binds to DNA E-box sequences. SNAIL and related transcription factor family members are known to recruit LSD1-containing protein complexes to specific sites in chromatin to regulate gene expression. LSD1 can form a multiprotein complex with histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) and CoREST scaffolding protein (LHC). In this study, we use a purified system to analyze the role of SNAIL in modulating nucleosome deacetylation by the LHC complex. We find that SNAIL enhances nucleosome deacetylase activity of the LHC complex at multiple histone H3 sites through multivalent interactions. Enhanced nucleosome deacetylation is dependent on SNAIL's SNAG and zinc finger domains. Unexpectedly, we find that SNAIL-stimulated nucleosome deacetylation by LHC also involves interactions of the nucleosome histone acidic patch, including histone H2A acidic residues. Modeling and mutagenesis experiments suggest that this acidic patch could engage a basic patch in the disordered segment of LSD1. Together, these findings reveal how a transcription factor can influence a cascade of molecular recognition events to regulate chromatin structure.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
A novel signal-switchable fluorescent biosensing platform was rationally developed based on oxidized single-walled carbon nanohorns (oxSWCNHs) and FAM-labeled peptide probes for the highly sensitive detection, activity evaluation, and intracellular bioimaging of histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1). The FAM-modified peptide substrate could be tightly adsorbed on the oxSWCNHs. In the presence of HDAC1, the specific deacetylation of acetyl-lysine residues initiated the sequential enzymatic cleavage reaction triggered by carboxypeptidase Y (CPY), which led to the detachment of fluorophores from oxSWCNHs and the obvious recovery of fluorescence signals. Under optimized experimental conditions, the constructed biosensor exhibited excellent sensing performance toward HDAC1 with a low detection limit of 1.4 ng/mL. Meanwhile, the sensing system was effectively utilized to precisely detect HDAC1 in the serum of humans, quantitatively assess the inhibitory effect of trichostatin A (TSA), and achieve intracellular fluorescence imaging of endogenous HDAC1 in living cells. Featuring high sensitivity, favorable specificity, and simple operation, this fluorescent sensing strategy provides a promising and universal tool for clinical HDAC1 analysis, disease-related research and inhibitor screening.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH, DE part of Springer Nature.
The zinc finger MYND-type containing eight protein (ZMYND8) is a chromatin reader that regulates neuronal gene expression by controlling the microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT) locus. Here, we investigate how ZMYND8 regulates expression of the long non-coding RNA MAPT213 through its interaction with GATA zinc finger domain containing 2A (GATAD2A), a component of the Nucleosome Remodelling and Deacetylase complex. ZMYND8 exhibits opposite regulatory effects on protein-coding MAPT and non-coding MAPT213 transcripts in a manner dependent on its MYND domain, promoting MAPT expression while suppressing MAPT213 levels. Chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated that ZMYND8 specifically recruits GATAD2A to the MAPT213 internal regulatory region, establishing a direct link between protein binding and transcriptional control. We determined the crystal structure of the ZMYND8 coiled-coil MYND domain at high resolution, revealing a homodimeric architecture. The MYND domain specifically recognizes GATAD2A through direct interaction with proline-rich motifs in GATAD2A's central region. Structure-function analysis identified critical binding interface residues, while quantitative measurements revealed moderate-affinity interactions enhanced through multivalent binding mechanisms. These findings establish the molecular basis for ZMYND8-mediated recruitment of chromatin remodeling complexes to specific genomic loci and provide a structural framework for understanding transcriptional regulation of MAPT213.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Recent research indicates that mitofusin 2 (MFN2) plays a pivotal role in the neuroprotective effects achieved by silencing nuclear receptor subfamily 6 group A member 1 (NR6A1) during cerebral ischemia. While NR6A1 is known to inhibit octamer-binding transcription factor 4 (OCT4), the regulatory relationship between OCT4 and MFN2 remains unknown. This study explores the neuroprotective effects of OCT4-activating compound 1 (OAC1), an OCT4 activator, against cerebral ischemia/reperfusion injuries and its underlying mechanism. In a murine stroke model, administration of OAC1 (3 mg/kg) significantly reduced brain infarction of mice and loss of MFN2. Notably, OAC1 treatment mitigated neuronal injury induced by oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R) in a dose-dependent manner. Additionally, OAC1 treatment also alleviated dysfunction of mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum stress. Moreover, OAC1 application preserved both OCT4 and MFN2 expression following OGD/R, and MFN2 facilitate protective function of OAC1 against neuronal damage induced by OGD/R. Our results demonstrate that OAC1 can alleviate neuronal damage in cerebral ischemia by activating the OCT4/MFN2. These findings offer novel insights into MFN2 regulation and highlight OCT4's potential as a therapeutic target for cerebral ischemia.
Despite significant advancements in artificial insemination techniques, male reproduction continues to pose a considerable challenge in cattle breeding. Circular RNAs (circRNAs), a class of non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs), play a crucial role in regulating testis growth and spermatogenesis. Therefore, it is essential to comprehend the involvement of circRNAs in bull reproduction for livestock production. However, the identification of differentially expressed circRNAs during testis development and their underlying mechanisms remains largely unknown.In this study, RNA-seq was employed to investigate the expression of circRNAs in neonatal and sexually mature bovine testes. We identified 28,065 candidate circRNAs, of which 987 circRNAs showed differential expression between the two stages (P-adjust < 0.05). Notably, circSMC1B was significantly up-regulated in sexually mature testis. Overexpression of circSMC1B promoted the proliferation and apoptosis of bovine male germline stem cells (mGSCs). Further analysis revealed that circSMC1B acts as a molecular sponge for let-7i, while High mobility group AT-hook 1/Nuclear receptor subfamily 6 group A member 1 (HMGA1/NR6 A1) were identified as direct targets of let-7i. Furthermore, circSMC1B levels exhibited a significant positive correlation with HMGA1/NR6A1 mRNA expression in bovine mGSCs, highlighting the critical role of competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) mechanisms.Our research elucidates that circSMC1B, through let-7i binding, promotes bovine mGSCs proliferation and apoptosis by targeting HMGA1/NR6A1. These findings provide valuable resources for studying the functional aspects of circRNAs in testis development and enhance our understanding of the biological function of circSMC1B in promoting bull spermatogenesis.© 2025. The Author(s).
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is considered the most widespread chronic liver condition globally. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have pinpointed several genetic loci correlated to MASLD, yet the biological significance of these loci remains poorly understood. Initially, we applied Functional Mapping and Annotation (FUMA) to conduct a functional annotation of the MASLD GWAS summary statistics, which included data from 3242 cases and 707 631 controls. Additionally, a MASLD transcriptome association study (TWAS) was conducted utilizing FUSION software in combination with the genotype-tissue expression project (GTEx-v8) expression weight set to identify susceptibility genes. Furthermore, to elucidate the observed correlations, we carried out conditional and joint analyses, probabilistic causal fine-mapping of TWAS signals, summary data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR), and phenome-wide association analyses. Following functional annotation analysis, we identified 4 genetic risk loci, annotated 6 lead single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), 27 independent significant SNPs, and 511 candidate SNPs. TWAS also found four genes related to MASLD, including MAU2 sister chromatid cohesion factor (MAU2), EPH receptor A2 (EPHA2), GATA zinc finger domain containing 2A (GATAD2A), and transmembrane 6 superfamily member 2 (TM6SF2). Moreover, fine mapping of TWAS signatures identified 13 causal genes associated with MASLD that were located at 3 genetic risk loci, but SMR results could not rule out the possibility that the relationship between significant genes and MASLD was caused by a linkage disequilibrium structure. Our study found new significantly associated genes for MASLD and highlighted the ability of TWAS to identify and prioritize potentially pathogenic genes.
An abnormal increase in the expression of nuclear receptor subfamily 6 group A member 1 (NR6A1) in the hippocampus has been reported to result in depressive-like behavior in mice. However, the role of NR6A1 in the progression of neuronal death induced by ischemic stroke remains unknown. In this study, we observed an increase in NR6A1 in neurons in both in vivo and in vitro cerebral ischemic models. We found that knocking down NR6A1 in HT-22 neuronal cells subjected to oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R) attenuated mitochondrial dysfunction and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Conversely, NR6A1 overexpression exacerbated neuronal damage following OGD/R. NR6A1 hindered the transcription of mitonfusin 2 (MFN2), leading to a decrease in its expression. In contrast, MFN2 conferred the protective effect of NR6A1 silencing against both mitochondrial dysfunction and ER stress. In addition, NR6A1 silencing also attenuated brain infarction, ER stress, neuronal apoptosis, and loss of MFN2 in mice subjected to middle cerebral artery occlusion/reperfusion. These findings indicate that NR6A1 is a promising target for the treatment of neuronal death following cerebral ischemia. Furthermore, these results confirm the involvement of MFN2 in the effects of NR6A1 silencing. Therefore, targeting NR6A1 has potential as a viable strategy for the treatment of ischemic stroke.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
This study aimed to investigate the genetic link between variations in vertebral number and meat production traits, such as body weight and body measurements (body length, body height, heart girth, and shin width) in Mongolian (Bayantsagaan) sheep. Additionally, we examined the association of single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in candidate genes, particularly vertnin (VRTN), nuclear receptor subfamily 6, group A, member 1 (NR6A1), and synapse differentiation-inducing 1-like (SYNDIG1L), with vertebral number variations and their potential impact on meat production traits.The study involved 220 Bayantsagaan sheep from Bayantsagaan soum, Tov province, Mongolia, including 104 sheep with extra vertebrae group and 116 individuals with typical vertebral number as the control group. Morphological data, including body weight and body measurements, were collected, and genetic samples were obtained. The impact of vertebral number on morphological traits was estimated using a general linear model. The SNPs in the VRTN, NR6A1, and SYNDIG1L genes were sequenced, and their association with vertebral number was analyzed using one-way analysis of variance.Bayantsagaan sheep with extra vertebrae were, on average, 4.45 kg heavier and exhibited higher variability in body size traits compared to the control group. Four polymorphic sites were identified at the VRTN gene, with one polymorphic locus (VRTN1716) showing a significant association with vertebrae number and body size. Sheep with C/C genotype at VRTN1716 locus, had more vertebrae and larger body size compared to other genotypes.The findings suggest that variations in vertebral number and VRTN gene polymorphisms are linked to favorable meat production traits in Bayantsagaan sheep. The identified SNP (VRTN1716) associated with vertebral number and body size offers the potential for marker-assisted selection in breeding programs. These results provide valuable insights into the genetic basis of meat production traits in Bayantsagaan sheep and may contribute to the development of more efficient breeding strategies.
Skipped: PubMed ID 38440075 is a review article
This study aims to elucidate the microRNA (miRNA)-messenger RNA (mRNA)-transcription factors (TFs) network relevant to diabetic nephropathy (DN).To investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying DN, we conducted an extensive analysis using a Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database, specifically GSE51784, GSE30528, GSE30529 and GSE1009. RNA samples from 66 subjects were analysed to identify differentially expressed mRNAs (DEGs) and microRNAs (DEMs) between individuals with DN and healthy controls. The data underwent preprocessing, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) analysis, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) to unveil enriched pathways. Additionally, we constructed protein-protein interaction networks and subnetworks of modules to identify key molecular players.A total of 163 DEMs and 188 DEGs were identified among the four datasets. Furthermore, we identified 37 hub genes with high connectivity and four TFs, namely E1A Binding Protein P300 (EP300), SP100 Nuclear Antigen (SP100), Nuclear Receptor Subfamily 6 Group A Member 1 (NR6A1) and Jun Dimerization Protein 2 (JDP2), which may play crucial roles in the molecular pathogenesis of DN. Additionally, we constructed a co-regulatory network involving miRNAs, mRNAs and TFs, revealing potential involvement of pathways such as the Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase (MAPK) signalling pathway, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-protein kinase B (Akt) signalling pathway and metabolic pathways in the pathogenesis of DN. Finally, using a docking model, we established drug-gene interactions involving key genes in the network, providing potential insights into therapeutic options.This study explores a gene regulation network of miRNA-mRNA-TFs, identifying potential molecular targets in the aetiology of DN. It also suggests potential targets for genetic counselling and prenatal diagnosis for DN.© 2024 The Author(s).
Increasing evidence shows that microRNAs (miRNAs) contribute vital roles in papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) carcinogenesis, proliferation, invasion, and so on. As the most common endocrine malignancy, there still have largely unknown molecular events. First, our analysis and open access database information indicates that the downregulation of let-7a-5p accelerates PTC progression. Next, lentivirus mediates the overexpression of let-7a-5p PTC cells, and found let-7a-5p suppressed cancer cells proliferation and invasion. Interestingly, bioinformatics analysis hints NR6A1 is the potential target gene of let-7a-5p. The regulation was validated by luciferase and quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) in PTC tissue and the clinic tumors. Moreover, let-7a-5p regulated NR6A1 involved in PTC cells lipogensis in vitro and in vivo. Finally, let-7a-5p abrogates PCT xenograft tumors growth, NR6A1 expression and lipogenesis. Taken together, our data indicates that let-7a-5p suppresses PCT progression through decreased lipogenesis, the related let-7a-5p/NR6A1axis might be promising candidate targets for PTC treatment.© 2023 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
GATA zinc finger domain containing 2A (GATAD2A) is a subunit of the nucleosome remodeling and deacetylase (NuRD) complex. NuRD is known to regulate gene expression during neural development and other processes. The NuRD complex modulates chromatin status through histone deacetylation and ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling activities. Several neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs) have been previously linked to variants in other components of NuRD's chromatin remodeling subcomplex (NuRDopathies). We identified five individuals with features of an NDD that possessed de novo autosomal dominant variants in GATAD2A. Core features in affected individuals include global developmental delay, structural brain defects, and craniofacial dysmorphology. These GATAD2A variants are predicted to affect protein dosage and/or interactions with other NuRD chromatin remodeling subunits. We provide evidence that a GATAD2A missense variant disrupts interactions of GATAD2A with CHD3, CHD4, and CHD5. Our findings expand the list of NuRDopathies and provide evidence that GATAD2A variants are the genetic basis of a previously uncharacterized developmental disorder.© 2023 The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42509403 is a review article
Skeletal muscle dysfunction (SMD) is a common extrapulmonary complication of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Histone deacetylase 2 (HDAC2) is closely involved in the suppression of inflammatory transcription and is progressively reduced during COPD progression. Exosomes mediate intercellular communication by transferring bioactive cargos, including proteins. This study aimed to elucidate the molecular mechanism by which alveolar epithelial cell-derived exosomes regulate HDAC2 and contribute to COPD-related SMD.Exosome inhibitor GW4869 was used to assess the role of exosomes in skeletal muscle injury induced by chronic cigarette smoke (CS) exposure. Exosomes isolated from the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) of CS-exposed mice and from cigarette smoke extract (CSE)-exposed mouse alveolar epithelial (MLE12) cells were applied to recipient mice and/or mouse myoblast (C2C12) cells to evaluate muscle phenotypes, myogenic differentiation and cellular senescence. Rescue experiments using HDAC2 overexpression or HDAC activator ITSA1 treatment, together with proteomics and protein interaction assays, were performed to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms.GW4869 treatment ameliorated CS-induced muscle dysfunction in mice, as evidenced by increased grip strength (222.4 ± 15.91 g vs. 159.2 ± 11.65 g, p < 0.001) and muscle fibre cross-sectional area (404.0 ± 5.15 μm2 vs. 172.0 ± 5.39 μm2, p < 0.001), along with decreased muscle atrophy and senescence markers. In vitro, exosomes derived from 8% CSE-exposed MLE12 cells (Exo-CSE) impaired myogenic differentiation, decreased myotube diameter (10.50 ± 0.74 μm vs. 29.27 ± 0.48 μm, p < 0.001) and increased the number of senescent cells (206.7 ± 5.13 vs. 9.33 ± 1.53, p < 0.001). Exo-CSE significantly reduced HDAC2 expression in C2C12 cells (0.18 ± 0.03 vs. 0.53 ± 0.04, p < 0.001), whereas HDAC2 overexpression or ITSA1 treatment rescued impaired myogenic differentiation and cellular senescence caused by Exo-CSE. Proteomic analysis identified proline/arginine-rich end leucine-rich protein (PRELP) as a key exosomal cargo, and exosomes derived from PRELP-silenced CSE-exposed MLE12 cells markedly restored HDAC2 expression in recipient C2C12 cells (0.42 ± 0.02 vs. 0.18 ± 0.03, p < 0.001). Mechanistically, PRELP disrupted the stabilizing interaction between heat shock protein family A member 5 (HSPA5) and HDAC2, accelerating HDAC2 degradation, likely through the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. In vivo, the combination of PRELP knockdown and the HDAC activator ITSA1 synergistically alleviated CS-induced muscle atrophy and senescence.In COPD, CS-exposed alveolar epithelial cells release PRELP-enriched exosomes that promote SMD by disrupting HSPA5-mediated HDAC2 stabilization and accelerating HDAC2 degradation. Targeting the PRELP-HDAC2 axis may represent a potential therapeutic strategy for COPD-related SMD.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cachexia, Sarcopenia and Muscle published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Histone deacetylase 2 (HDAC2) critically regulates macrophage inflammatory responses and lipid metabolism, yet its potential as a therapeutic target in atherosclerosis (AS) remains to be fully established. This study investigates the therapeutic effects and molecular mechanisms of HDI-1, a novel selective HDAC2 inhibitor, in AS. Fluorescence affinity assays and molecular docking were employed to assess HDI-1 binding to HDAC2. Histone acetylation, lipid accumulation, and expression of lipid transporters (ABCA1, CD36) were evaluated in PMA-differentiated THP-1 macrophages using Western blot, Oil Red O staining, and immunofluorescence. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels and Nrf2/HO-1 pathway activation were also measured. In vivo, the efficacy of HDI-1 was examined in high-fat diet-fed ApoE-/- mice. HDI-1 demonstrated high binding affinity for HDAC2, selectively inhibited its activity, and significantly increased H3K9 and H3K27 acetylation. In macrophages, HDI-1 concentration-dependently reduced ox-LDL uptake and lipid accumulation by upregulating ABCA1 and downregulating CD36. Additionally, HDI-1 activated the Nrf2/HO-1 pathway, suppressed ROS generation, and mitigated oxidative stress. In ApoE-/- mice, HDI-1 treatment attenuated aortic plaque formation and ameliorated associated pathological changes. By selectively targeting HDAC2, HDI-1 coordinately modulates macrophage lipid metabolism and oxidative stress responses, effectively attenuating AS progression. These findings position HDI-1 as a promising therapeutic candidate for AS.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Sirtuin 6 (SIRT6) is a protein deacetylase and ribosyltransferase that is a vital hub for maintaining epigenetic homeostasis, regulating the transcriptome, and repairing DNA double stranded breaks (DSBs). Comprehensive proteomic profiling of the SIRT6 posttranslational landscape, however, remains elusive. The SIRT6 C-terminal domain contains multiple phosphorylation sites. We find that the presence and the use of these sites are strongly correlated with maximum lifespan across mammals. Subsequent biochemical and in silico analyses revealed that SIRT6 hyperphosphorylation enhances its interaction with PARP1. Mutating the T294 phosphorylation site in human fibroblasts led to decreased survival after oxidative stress in the phospho-null T294A and improved oxidative stress resistance in the phospho-mimetic T294E. Together, these results suggest SIRT6 C-terminal phosphorylation increases stress resistance and interaction with PARP1 and that this phosphorylation is more abundant in long-lived mammalian species.© 2026. The Author(s).
Berberine and crocin, two valuable bioactive compounds in Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM), are known for their diverse pharmacological properties and have gained attention for their potential therapeutic effects in neurological disorders.This study investigates the potential synergistic efficacy of a berberine and crocin combination by targeting multiple molecular pathways implicated in neuroprotection, using both in-silico and in-vivo approaches.The in-silico docking analysis demonstrated favourable binding affinities for both compounds, indicating their preference to interact with these receptors effectively in a synergistic manner. Behavioural studies, along with biochemical assays for oxidative stress markers and inflammatory cytokines, indicated significant improvements in cognitive function and reductions in neuroinflammatory markers. The combination of berberine and crocin demonstrated a significant decline in cytokine levels (TNF-α, IL-6) and oxidative markers (MDA, NO). A rise in oxidative markers (GSH, SOD, and Catalase), IL-10 cytokine levels, and neuroprotective markers (BDNF, CREB) was also observed. A marked improvement in mitochondrial function was observed in the treatment groups. Moreover, histological analysis revealed decreased neuroinflammation in the brain.In-silico docking studies performed evaluated the interaction of berberine and crocin with key targets, viz. histone deacetylase 2 (HDAC2), nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB), Nrf2/Keap1, Calcium channel and NMDA pathway. This interaction plays a significant role in neuroinflammation, oxidative stress response, and excitotoxicity during neurodevelopment. Invivo assessments further explored the neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory potential of the berberine-crocin combination in a rodent model of neuroinflammation.The findings highlight the therapeutic potential of the combination therapy (berberine and crocin) in treating neurodevelopmental conditions through multi-target modulation. Further clinical studies are warranted to explore their combination as a novel therapeutic approach.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Angiotensin (Ang) II can cause podocyte injury and leads to chronic kidney disease (CKD), but the specific mechanism is not clear. In our previous study, we found that Ang II reduced the expression of cholesterol efflux associated molecule by regulating Sirtuin 6 (SIRT6), thereby inducing podocyte cholesterol accumulation and injury. However, the effect of SIRT6 on podocyte cholesterol synthesis is unclear. In this study, we evaluated the role of SIRT6 in the expression of cholesterol synthesis associated molecular sterol regulatory element-binding protein 2 (SREBP2), cholesterol content, and apoptosis levels in podocytes.Ang II-infused rat model was constructed. Cholesterol quantification was examined using a cholesterol quantitation kit. The expression of SIRT6 and SREBP2 were examined by western blot and immunofluorescence assay. The podocyte apoptotic level was detected by flow cytometry. Transfection of podocytes with pcDNA 3.1 SIRT6 plasmid and the deacetylase-inactive SIRT6 mutant plasmid (pcDNA 3.1 SIRT6 H133Y) was performed to investigate whether SIRT6 regulates SREBP2 expression and to further determine if this regulatory effect is dependent on SIRT6's deacetylase activity.Ang II promoted lipid droplet and cholesterol accumulation in rat glomeruli, suppressed SIRT6 expression, and enhanced SREBP2 activation, evidenced by increased SREBP2 levels and nuclear translocation. Transfection of pcDNA3.1SIRT6 into podocytes attenuated SREBP2 activation, reducing Ang II-induced cholesterol accumulation and apoptosis. Experiments using pcDNA3.1 SIRT6 and pcDNA3.1 SIRT6 H133Y plasmids indicate that SIRT6-mediated suppression of SREBP2 requires its histone deacetylase activity.We conclude that SIRT6 serves as a key protective regulator of podocytes against RAS activation, at least in part by suppressing SREBP2 expression and thereby alleviating cholesterol accumulation and associated podocyte injury. It provides a new target for clinical treatment of CKD.The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Osteoclasts, through their excessive production, are the primary cause of postmenopausal osteoporosis. However, the influence of metabolism on osteoclastogenesis remains poorly understood. This study reveals that protein lactylation plays a critical role in osteoclast differentiation.The ovariectomized (OVX) mouse model was used to investigate osteoporosis by examining glycolysis and lactate levels during osteoclast differentiation. Bone resorption was assessed through histomorphometric analysis. The effects of elevating lactate levels were tested both endogenously via exercise and exogenously through sodium lactate (NaLac) administration. Protein lactylation, focusing on histone modifications, was analyzed, and key osteoclastogenesis genes, including cathepsin K (Ctsk), matrix metalloproteinase 9 (Mmp9), and matrix metalloproteinase 12 (Mmp12), were quantified. The enzymes responsible for lactylation and delactylation were identified through cleavage under targets and tagmentation (CUT&Tag) and RNA-Seq analyses.Our findings showed that glycolysis and lactate levels were reduced during osteoclast differentiation in the OVX model, despite increased bone resorption. Elevating lactate through exercise or sodium lactate supplementation increased protein lactylation and mitigated OVX-induced bone loss. Mechanistically, lactate enhanced histone H3 lysine-18 lactylation (H3K18la), which suppressed osteoclast differentiation by downregulating key osteoclastogenesis genes like Ctsk, Mmp9, and Mmp12. Alanyl-tRNA synthetase 1 (AARS1) was identified as the lactylation "writer" that mediates H3K18la, with sirtuin 6 (SIRT6) acting as an "eraser" in a regulatory circuit.Lactate suppresses osteoclast differentiation and alleviates osteoporosis through histone H3K18 lactylation, which downregulates osteoclastogenic genes including Ctsk, Mmp9, and Mmp12. The dynamic regulation of H3K18la involves AARS1 as the lactylation "writer"and SIRT6 as an "eraser".This study reveals an epigenetic mechanism by which lactate regulates osteoclast function and suggests that exercise-induced lactate elevation or lactate supplementation may represent a viable therapeutic strategy for postmenopausal osteoporosis.© 2026 The Authors.
Intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD) is a common and challenging chronic condition in orthopedics, primarily characterized by the aging of nucleus pulposus cells (NPC). Current treatment strategies for IVDD, particularly those targeting NPC senescence, remain underdeveloped. Research has shown that NPC senescence is closely associated with mitochondrial damage, leading to the accumulation of cytoplasmic reactive oxygen species (ROS) and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). Mitochondrial autophagy, as a key mechanism of mitochondrial quality control, regulates ROS and mtDNA levels by eliminating dysfunctional and damaged mitochondria, thereby delaying cellular aging. Notably, mitophagy signaling associated with Sirtuin 6 (SIRT6) and PTEN-induced kinase 1 (PINK1)/Parkin has been implicated in this process. Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM), with its holistic approach and unique theoretical system of syndrome differentiation and treatment, offers significant advantages in preventing and treating degenerative diseases such as IVDD. However, research into TCM formulations aimed at NPC senescence remains limited. In preliminary studies, we observed that Nodakenin, the primary active compound from the TCM formula Duhuo Jisheng decoction (DHJSD), exerts protective effects in a SIRT6-associated manner and appears to be associated with activation of PINK1/Parkin-related mitophagy signaling. In this study, we used single-cell analysis to construct human NPC senescence and rat IVDD models, assessing mitochondrial morphology, mitochondrial membrane potential, cell senescence, and autophagy-related gene expression. We further evaluated the effects of Nodakenin (Nod) on H2O2-induced NPC senescence and determined the optimal intervention concentration, followed by assessment of mitochondrial phenotypes and SIRT6- and PINK1/Parkin-associated markers. These findings provide new theoretical support for the clinical application of TCM in the treatment of IVDD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cochlear hair cells are the mechanosensitive receptor cells responsible for detecting sound information. They are characterized by their apical F-actin-filled stereocilia that are essential for mechano-electrical transduction. Previously, we and other groups reported that RNA Binding Motif Protein 24 (RBM24) plays pivotal roles in stereocilia development and maintenance by regulating pre-mRNA alternative splicing and mRNA stability. In the present work, we show that exon 4 of the mouse Rbm24 gene is subjected to alternative splicing. Inclusion of exon 4 in Rbm24 mRNA results in premature translational stop, giving rise to a short isoform of RBM24 (RBM24-S). Notably, while sharing the same RNA-recognition motif, the canonical RBM24 long isoform (RBM24-L) and RBM24-S can bind different mRNA targets to affect their splicing and/or stability. Deletion of Rbm24 exon 4 in mice abolishes the expression of Rbm24(+e4) transcripts that encode for RBM24-S, and both homozygote and heterozygote mice suffer from severe hearing loss. Further investigations revealed that Rbm24 exon 4 deletion leads to stereocilia disorganization and eventually hair cell loss. Moreover, overexpression of RBM24-L in the hair cells leads to significant stereocilia deficits as well as profound hearing loss. Finally, we identified several RBM24 targets such as Strc, whose dysregulation contributes to stereocilia disorganization as well as hearing loss in Rbm24 deficient mice. Taken together, our present data suggest that Rbm24 is subjected to alternative splicing and appropriate RBM24 expression levels are important for stereocilia integrity and hearing function.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a highly aggressive malignancy with poor prognosis, driven by complex molecular mechanisms that remain inadequately understood. Among these, the ubiquitin-proteasome system plays a crucial role in regulating protein stability and function, with E3 ubiquitin ligases emerging as key players in cancer progression. Here, we identify Tripartite Motif-containing 6 (TRIM6), an E3 ubiquitin ligase, as a critical regulator of HCC metastasis. We demonstrate that TRIM6 is significantly upregulated in HCC tissues and correlates with poor overall survival. Mechanistically, we uncover that STAT3 directly regulates TRIM6 by binding to its promoter and enhancing its transcription. Functionally, TRIM6 promotes epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and cell invasion by upregulating the key EMT transcription factor Snail1. Importantly, we reveal that TRIM6 interacts with and ubiquitinates DDX58 (RIG-I), leading to its proteasomal degradation. The degradation of DDX58 by TRIM6 alleviates its inhibitory effects on Snail1, thereby facilitating EMT and enhancing the invasive potential of HCC cells. These findings establish the STAT3-TRIM6-DDX58-Snail1 axis as a pivotal pathway in HCC progression, offering novel insights into the molecular underpinnings of HCC metastasis and highlighting TRIM6 as a potential therapeutic target and prognostic biomarker in HCC.© 2025. The Author(s).
The latent transforming growth factor-beta-binding protein 3 (LTBP3), which encodes one of the extracellular matrix proteins, plays an essential role in skeletal formation through both stimulatory and inhibitory effects on the growth of different cell types, as well as on the production and degradation of the extracellular matrix. Pathogenic variants in LTBP3 have been associated with genetic skeletal disorders that exhibit various cardiovascular features, including aortic root dilatation, aneurysm or dissection of the ascending and descending aorta, and mitral valve prolapse). Aortic root dilatation, an aortopathy that may have lifethreatening consequences, is among the clinical findings in various connective tissue disorders, including Marfan syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, and Loeys-Dietz syndrome. Aortic root dilatation, aneurysm, and aortic dissection should be carefully investigated by cardiologists. In this study, we describe three siblings with short stature and dental anomalies. A homozygous, novel, c.2726-1G > A pathogenic variant in LTBP3 was identified through exome sequencing. After the detection of the LTBP3 variant, the patients were evaluated for possible cardiac findings, which revealed mitral valve prolapse and aortic root dilatation despite the absence of clinical symptoms. In this study, we aimed to shed light on the diagnosis of dental anomalies and short tature syndrome in three siblings with a novel LTBP3 pathogenic variant revealed through exome sequencing. Additionally, we emphasise the importance of searching for cardiac findings, even in the absence of clinical symptoms. We highly suggest that cardiologists take note of cardiac findings in patients with dental anomalies and short stature syndrome.
Circular RNAs (circRNAs) have emerged as significant members of gene regulatory networks and play important roles in normal heart biology and cardiac diseases. RNA binding proteins (RBPs) are key regulatory factors in circRNA formation; however, the mechanisms by which RBP regulate circRNA production remain unclear. RNA binding motif protein 24 (RBM24) is essential for alternative splicing of genes related to cardiac function, and its loss leads to dilated cardiomyopathy and heart failure. In this study, we performed circRNA profiling on hearts from wild-type and Rbm24 knockout mice, identifying the differential expression of circRNAs. We demonstrated that RBM24 could directly bind to pre-mRNA, facilitating the inclusion of specific exons to provide a substrate for circ23679 production. Moreover, RBM24-regulated circRNA production depended on its phosphorylation status. Further, we showed that RBM24-mediated circ23679 acted as a sponge of miR-15b-5p, and a deficient in circ23679-mediated 'sponging events' could drive cardiac apoptosis. Conversely, circ23679 overexpression inhibited cardiac apoptosis and alleviated the disease phenotype in mouse models of heart failure. Thus, our study not only proposes a novel model in which RBPs provide the substrate for circRNA formation but also reveals that RBM24-dependent circRNA production is a crucial post-transcriptional regulatory circuit in cardiac pathogenesis.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The aim of this study is to investigate the de novo mutation and clinical features of latent transforming growth factor-beta-binding protein 3 (LTBP3) gene-associated geleophysic dysplasia 3, and possible mechanisms of action.A nonconsanguineous couple was recruited for this study due to the presence of intrauterine growth restriction. The pregnant woman and her elder daughter presented with skeletal abnormalities with diabetes. The pregnant woman underwent amniocentesis for cytogenetic analysis and copy number variation sequencing. Furthermore, we employed a combination of pedigree whole exome sequencing and bioinformatics analysis to predict the effects of mutations.The results of karyotyping and copy number variation sequencing were normal. And the whole exome sequencing results indicated that the family carried a de novo mutation c.852_853insAGG (p.L284_P285insR) in the LTBP3 gene (NM_001130144.3) inherited from the mother. The results of bioinformatics prediction demonstrated the mutation influenced the stability of the LTBP3 gene, thereby enhanced the transforming growth factor β signaling pathways.The couple terminated the pregnancy after comprehensive consideration.A de novo non-frameshift mutation of the LTBP3 gene might enhance the transforming growth factor β signaling pathways, thereby leading to geleophysic dysplasia 3.As a rare multi-system musculoskeletal disorder, geleophysic dysplasia 3 necessitates early prenatal diagnosis and multidisciplinary consultation in order to facilitate further diagnosis and evaluation of the patient and the fetus.Copyright © 2024 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) have emerged as important mediators of intertissue signaling and exercise adaptations. In this human study, we provide evidence that muscle-specific microRNA-1 (miR-1) was transferred to adipose tissue via EVs following an acute bout of resistance exercise. Using a multimodel machine learning automation tool, we discovered muscle primary miR-1 transcript and CD63+ EV count in circulation as top explanatory features for changes in adipose miR-1 levels in response to resistance exercise. RNA-Seq and in-silico prediction of miR-1 target genes identified caveolin 2 (CAV2) and tripartite motif containing 6 (TRIM6) as miR-1 target genes downregulated in the adipose tissue of a subset of participants with the highest increases in miR-1 levels following resistance exercise. Overexpression of miR-1 in differentiated human adipocyte-derived stem cells downregulated these miR-1 targets and enhanced catecholamine-induced lipolysis. These data identify a potential EV-mediated mechanism by which skeletal muscle communicates with adipose tissue and modulates lipolysis via miR-1.
Rationale: Adult neurogenesis in the subventricular zone (SVZ) is essential for maintaining neural homeostasis, and its dysregulation contributes to anosmia and delayed tissue healing in neurological disorders, such as Parkinson's disease (PD). Despite intricate regulatory networks identified in SVZ neurogenesis, the molecular mechanisms dynamically maintaining neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) in response to physiological and pathological stimuli remain incompletely elucidated. Methods: We generated an RNA binding motif protein 24 (Rbm24) knockout model to investigate its impact on adult neurogenesis in the SVZ, employing immunofluorescence, immunoblot, electrophysiology, RNA-sequencing, and in vitro experiments. Further investigations utilized a PD mouse model, along with genetic and pharmacological manipulations, to elucidate Rbm24 involvement in PD pathology. Results: Rbm24, a multifaceted post-transcriptional regulator of cellular homeostasis, exhibited broad expression in the SVZ from development to aging. Deletion of Rbm24 significantly impaired NSPC proliferation in the adult SVZ, ultimately resulting in collapsed neurogenesis in the olfactory bulb. Notably, Rbm24 played a specific role in maintaining Notch1 mRNA stability in adult NSPCs. The Rbm24/Notch1 signaling axis was significantly downregulated in the SVZ of PD mice. Remarkably, overexpression of Rbm24 rescued disruption of adult neurogenesis and olfactory dysfunction in PD mice, and these effects were hindered by DAPT, a potent inhibitor of Notch1. Conclusions: Our findings highlight the critical role of the Rbm24/Notch1 signaling axis in regulating adult SVZ neurogenesis under physiological and pathological circumstances. This provides valuable insights into the dynamic regulation of NSPC homeostasis and offers a potential targeted intervention for PD and related neurological disorders.© The author(s).
Synaptic dysfunction is associated with early neurodegenerative changes and cognitive deficits. Neuronal cell-specific alternative splicing (AS) programs exclusively encode unique neuron- and synapse-specific proteins. However, it remains unclear whether splicing disturbances in neurons influence the pathogenesis of cognitive impairment. Here, we observed that RNA-binding motif protein 24 (RBM24) expression was decreased in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. Using conditional RBM24 knockout mice, we demonstrated that deletion of RBM24 in the brain resulted in learning and memory impairment. Electrophysiological recordings from hippocampal slices from mice lacking RBM24 revealed multiple defects in excitatory synaptic function and plasticity. Furthermore, RNA sequencing and splicing analysis showed that RBM24 regulates a network of genes related to cognitive function. Deletion of RBM24 disrupted the AS of synapse-associated genes, including GluR2 and Prrt1, the major disease genes involved in cognitive impairment and memory loss, leading to cognitive dysfunction. Together, our results suggest that the regulation of mRNA splicing by RBM24 is a key process involved in maintaining normal synaptic function and provide novel mechanistic insights into the pathogenesis of AD.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) with radiographic damage is more prevalent in men than in women. IL-17, which is mainly secreted from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), plays an important role in the development of AS. Its expression is different between male and female. However, it is still unclear whether sex dimorphism of IL-17 contribute to sex differences in AS.GSE221786, GSE73754, GSE25101, GSE181364 and GSE205812 datasets were collected from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Differential expressed genes (DEGs) were analyzed with the Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA), Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) methods. CIBERSORTx and EcoTyper algorithms were used for immune infiltration analyses. Machine learning based on the XGBoost algorithm model was used to identify the impact of DEGs. The Connectivity Map (CMAP) database was used as a drug discovery tool for exploring potential drugs based on the DEGs.According to immune infiltration analyses, T cells accounted for the largest proportion of IL-17-secreting PBMCs, and KEGG analyses suggested an enhanced activation of mast cells among male AS patients, whereas the expression of TNF was higher in female AS patients. Other signaling pathways, including those involving metastasis-associated 1 family member 3 (MAT3) or proteasome, were found to be more activated in male AS patients. Regarding metabolic patterns, oxidative phosphorylation pathways and lipid oxidation were significantly upregulated in male AS patients. In XGBoost algorithm model, DEGs including METRN and TMC4 played important roles in the disease process. we integrated the CMAP database for systematic analyses of polypharmacology and drug repurposing, which indicated that atorvastatin, famciclocir, ATN-161 and taselisib may be applicable to the treatment of AS.We analyzed the sex dimorphism of IL-17-secreting PBMCs in AS. The results showed that mast cell activation was stronger in males, while the expression of TNF was higher in females. In addition, through machine learning and the CMAP database, we found that genes such as METRN and TMC4 may promote the development of AS, and drugs such as atorvastatin potentially could be used for AS treatment.© 2024. The Author(s).
This study investigated the effects of low-intensity resistance training with blood flow restriction (LTBFR) compared with higher-intensity resistance training (HT) on circulating irisin, myostatin, and hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha (HIF-1α) in young adults with overweight, with particular focus on the relative contributions of mechanical loading and hypoxic stress.Twenty-eight participants with overweight were randomized to LTBFR (40% one-repetition maximum + 60% arterial occlusion pressure, n = 14) or HT (70% one-repetition maximum, n = 14). Both groups trained three times per week for eight weeks. Body composition and serum biomarkers were assessed before and after the intervention.A total of 12 participants in each group (LTBFR and HT) were included in the analysis. At baseline, anthropometric and body composition variables did not differ between groups (p > 0.05). After 8 weeks of training, arm circumference increased in both groups (p < 0.05), whereas thigh circumference increased only in the HT group (p < 0.05). Circulating irisin concentrations increased significantly following training in both groups (p < 0.05), with a significantly greater increase observed in HT compared with LTBFR (group × time interaction, p < 0.05). Myostatin levels remained unchanged (p > 0.05). HIF-1α concentrations increased significantly in both groups (p < 0.05), with no significant group × time interaction.HT elicited greater increases in circulating irisin and increased thigh circumference, highlighting the role of mechanical loading in myokine and muscular adaptations. Both HT and LTBFR increased HIF-1α, indicating engagement of hypoxia- and metabolic-sensitive pathways across modalities, suggesting that LTBFR can serve as an effective low-load alternative to HT when higher-intensity resistance training is not feasible.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs) like semaglutide have transformed type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) management, yet emerging concerns highlight potential risks of accelerated sarcopenia and subsequent metabolic disruptions. This case-driven hypothesis explores a 53-year-old male with T2DM diagnosed in 2014, who experienced progressive glycemic failure despite standard therapies, including metformin, glipizide, sitagliptin, and empagliflozin. Transition to dulaglutide 1.5 mg for 1.5 years followed by semaglutide (titrated from 0.25 to 1 mg weekly starting September 2024) resulted in weight loss from 84 kg to 70 kg by September 2025, accompanied by sarcopenic symptoms (muscle weakness, reduced mobility) and refractory hyperglycemia (fasting glucose 300 mg/dL, HbA1c 9%), persisting post-discontinuation on September 1, 2025, despite metformin and empagliflozin. We posit that semaglutide may precipitate acute sarcopenia via unexpected GLP-1R-mTOR-satellite cells axis crosstalk, disrupting AMPK-mTOR balance to suppress anabolic mTORC1/IGF-1 signaling (potentially by 25-35%) while enhancing catabolic FOXO/ubiquitin-proteasome and excessive autophagy pathways. This could extend to myokine reprogramming (elevated myostatin/GDF15, reduced irisin/IL-15), glucagon/α-cell compensation inducing hyperglucagonemia (15-25% rise), microbiome-bile acid shifts fostering low-grade inflammation (IL-6/TNF-α upregulation by 10-15%), mitochondrial mass reduction (20-25% via AMPK), and NMJ disassembly, collectively impairing muscle as the primary glucose sink (reducing GLUT4-mediated uptake by 35-45%) and initiating a «muscle-glucose feedback loop» with hepatic gluconeogenesis amplification, yielding treatment-resistant hyperglycemia.Supporting evidence from cohorts (e.g., 24-month study showing ASMI/grip strength declines in 432 patients), longitudinal analyses (NMJ degradation with CAF22/NfL elevations in 141 men), secondary trials (9.3% psoas volume loss in 51 MASLD cases), and case reports (fatigue in a 74-year-old, rhabdomyolysis in a 47-year-old) aligns with this framework, as does in vitro data linking GLP-1 excess to kinesin-1/GLUT4 inhibition and ATP depletion (20-30%). This novel hypothesis underscores sarcopenia's role in GLP-1RA-induced metabolic paradoxes, urging prospective studies on muscle-preserving interventions like resistance training or GLP-1R modulators to refine T2DM paradigms and inspire multidisciplinary research into endocrine-muscle interactions.
Skeletal muscle in teleost fish is traditionally regarded as a contractile tissue supporting locomotion; however, increasing evidence in vertebrates suggests that muscle also participates in immune regulation, stress adaptation, and tissue homeostasis. Despite this, the baseline spatial distribution of immune- and stress-associated proteins in teleost skeletal muscle remains insufficiently characterized. Here, we applied an integrated multiscale imaging approach combining histology, histochemistry, immunohistochemistry, semithin sectioning, and transmission electron microscopy to define the structural organization and molecular landscape of skeletal muscle in the molly fish (Poecilia sphenops). Light microscopy revealed highly organized W-shaped myomeres separated by connective myosepta, while ultrastructural analysis demonstrated well-defined sarcomeric architecture with abundant mitochondria, sarcoplasmic reticulum, and glycogen deposits, consistent with high metabolic activity. Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated constitutive localization of proteins associated with inflammatory signaling (IL-1β, NF-κB, iNOS), oxidative stress regulation (Nrf2), growth modulation (myostatin, TGF-β), calcium-binding and signaling (S100), and developmental regulation (SOX9) within skeletal muscle fibers. These findings establish the presence of a broad group of immune- and stress-related molecular components in teleost skeletal muscle under physiological conditions. Collectively, this study provides a comprehensive structural and molecular baseline map of P. sphenops skeletal muscle and introduces a reproducible multiscale imaging framework for comparative, environmental, and experimental investigations of muscle biology in teleosts.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Hepatic fibrosis (HF) serves as a critical pathological process underlying the progression of cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Despite its clinical relevance, effective anti‑fibrotic therapies remain scarce. Although total ginsenosides (GSS) can ameliorate hepatic oxidative damage and attenuate the development of HF, the molecular mechanism mediating their anti‑fibrotic effects remains incompletely elucidated. Notably, circadian clock gene dysregulation is associated with hepatic metabolic dyshomeostasis and the fibrotic process. As a core circadian gene in the liver, clock circadian regulator (CLOCK) serves a role in the progression of fibrosis. The present study hypothesized that GSS may exert anti‑fibrotic effects by restoring hepatic circadian rhythmicity through circadian clock‑dependent pathways. Using a well‑established carbon tetrachloride‑induced murine model of HF in C57BL/6 mice, GSS was administered intraperitoneally at graded doses of 50, 100 and 200 mg/kg. Subsequently, serum and liver tissues were collected from mice for histopathological examination. Furthermore, the expression levels of fibrotic markers (α‑smooth muscle actin and collagen type 1) and circadian rhythm genes [CLOCK, basic helix‑loop‑helix ARNT‑like 1, cryptochrome (CRY)1, CRY2, period circadian protein homolog (PER)1 and PER2 were assessed. At the cellular level, LX‑2 hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) were activated with TGF‑β1 and treated with GSS, after which, RNA sequencing was performed on GSS‑treated cells. In addition, the CLOCK inhibitor (CLK8) was used for in vitro experiments. The results of the present study revealed that GSS intervention effectively reversed the dysregulation of circadian gene expression and alleviated the progression of fibrosis. Molecular docking analysis further supported the interaction between GSS active components and the CLOCK protein. Thus, the current study focused on GSS and explored its role in ameliorating HF through regulation of the core circadian gene CLOCK. Collectively, the findings demonstrated that GSS may alleviate HF by rescuing circadian clock‑driven circadian homeostasis in hepatocytes and HSCs, thereby providing mechanistic insight into traditional Chinese medicine‑based interventions and identifying CLOCK as a druggable node for fibrosis therapy.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42528605 is a review article
Recent studies on cultured meat have shown that muscle satellite cells can be induced to form muscle-like tissues through proliferation and myogenic differentiation. Optimizing these processes is essential for reproducing the structure and texture of conventional meat; however, limited myogenic differentiation remains a major technical challenge. Stanozolol (STZ), a synthetic anabolic steroid derived from testosterone, is known to stimulate muscle protein synthesis and hypertrophy, but its effects on livestock-derived muscle cells for cultured meat production remain unclear. This study aimed to evaluate whether STZ enhances myogenic differentiation and myotube formation in primary porcine muscle satellite cells (PMSCs).PMSCs were treated with STZ at concentrations of 0.1, 0.5, and 1 μM. Cell viability and proliferation were assessed to determine the non-cytotoxic concentration range. Myogenic differentiation was evaluated by measuring the expression of myogenic differentiation 1 (MyoD), myogenin (MyoG), myosin heavy chain (MyHC), and myostatin (MSTN). Myotube formation was analysed by immunofluorescence staining, and the underlying mechanisms were investigated by examining PI3K/Akt/mTOR, Smad2/3, and forkhead box O3a (FoxO3a) signaling.STZ showed no cytotoxicity and did not significantly affect PMSC proliferation at 0.1-1 μM. In differentiation medium, STZ significantly increased the mRNA and protein expression of myogenic markers, including MyoD, MyoG, and MyHC, in a concentration-dependent manner. Notably, 1 μM STZ promoted the formation of larger multinucleated myotubes. In addition, STZ decreased MSTN expression, activated PI3K/Akt/mTOR hypertrophic signaling, and suppressed Smad2/3 phosphorylation and FoxO3a activity.STZ promoted myogenic differentiation and myotube formation in PMSCs by enhancing myogenic marker expression and modulating hypertrophy- and atrophy-associated signaling pathways. These findings suggest that STZ may serve as an effective culture medium supplement for improving PMSC differentiation in cultured meat production.
The somatotropic axis encompassing growth hormone (GH), insulin-like growth factor (IGF), myostatin (MSTN), and prolactin (PRL) signalling cascades is the master regulator of somatic growth, metabolism, and development in vertebrates. African catfish (Clarias gariepinus), a commercially pivotal aquaculture species, now possesses a chromosome-level reference genome (CGAR_prim_01v2); however, a systematic, genome-wide characterization spanning all five interconnected growth-related gene families has not previously been undertaken in this species. Here, we identified and characterized 15 growth-related genes spanning gh1, ghra, ghrb, Igf1, Igf2a, Igf2b, igf1ra, Igf1rb, Igf2r, Mstna, Mstnb, prl, prlra, prlrb, and smtlb distributed across 13 chromosomes. Complete one-to-one orthology with zebrafish confirmed strong dosage-balance conservation across >120 million years of teleost divergence. Physicochemical analysis resolved a clear biochemical dichotomy between compact, basic secreted ligands (19.88-45.81 kDa; pI up to 10.02) and large, acidic, heavily glycosylated membrane receptors (56.82-270.80 kDa; pI 4.85-5.97). Phylogenetic analysis confirmed 3R whole-genome duplication origins for all paralog pairs, while synteny analysis revealed a disruption of the ancestral gh1-prl chromosomal block in C. gariepinus, a finding that warrants further comparative and functional investigation. This genomic atlas provides the sequence and structural information including exon-intron boundaries, domain architecture, and chromosomal coordinates needed as a prerequisite for future marker-assisted selection and CRISPR-based myostatin-editing efforts in African catfish aquaculture, though translation into applied breeding outcomes will require subsequent functional and expression studies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The rapid development of genome editing technologies has enabled precise manipulation of livestock genomes for the improvement of production traits such as meat yield and milk quality. Myostatin (MSTN) and β-lactoglobulin (BLG) are key gene targets for enhancing muscle growth and reducing lactose intolerance, respectively.In this study, we employed an optimized CRISPR/EOCas12i system to simultaneously target MSTN and BLG in bovine fetal fibroblasts (BFFs) using a single plasmid.T7E1 and Sanger sequencing confirmed efficient editing at multiple target sites, with EOCas12i producing deletions ranging from tens to over 100 bp. Furthermore, no off-target (OT) effects were detected at predicted loci, supporting the high specificity of this system in large animals. Gene-edited single-cell clones (SCCs) were expanded in conditioned medium, and selected double-knockout (DKO) clones served as nuclear donors for somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT) to produce MSTN/BLG double gene-edited cattle embryos.Collectively, this study demonstrates the feasibility of generating MSTN/BLG double gene-edited cattle embryos using a single CRISPR/EOCas12i plasmid and SCNT, providing a robust platform for multiplex genome editing aimed at improving meat production and milk traits, with potential applications in both agricultural and biomedical research.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Chen, Ning, He, Wang, An, Tian and Xi.
Sodium bicarbonate (SB) and betaalanine (BA) can enhance high-intensity exercise performance. This study examined the effects of eight weeks of resistance training combined with these supplements on muscle cross-sectional area (CSA), serum myostatin and interleukin-15 concentration, and upper- and lower-body muscular strength and power. Twenty active males (age: 18-35) were divided into supplement (SUP) and placebo groups (PL; each group n=10). Participants undertook eight weeks of supervised resistance training, including 3 sessions × 3 sets × maximum repetitions at 70% of 1RM. Supplementations included 3-6 g/day BA and 4-6 g/day SB administered for 8 weeks. Exercise volume, calculated as the total number of repetitions completed in each session, increased to a greater extent following SUP (~29%) than PL (~13%) groups (P=0.014). Central segment of quadriceps CSA, measured using magnetic resonance imaging, demonstrated a greater increase following SUP compared to PL for both right ((~21%; pre to post: 452.47±55.98 to 548.21±73.92 mm3) vs. PL (~5%; 443.81±28.74 to 466.42±31.91 mm3)) and left ((~24%, 456.81±59.77 to 566.71±82.62 mm2) vs. PL (~9%; 438.12±41.54 and 479.06±49.91 mm3)) legs (all P<0.01). However, interleukin-15 concentrations decreased following both conditions (time effect: P<0.001). Also, no difference was observed between groups for the increased 1-RM squat, bench press, and countermovement jump (time effects: P<0.05). The results suggest that co-ingestion of BA and SB may enhance the central segment of the CSA in the quadriceps muscle, possibly by increasing exercise volume. This could be a potential approach in promoting muscle hypertrophy in athletic and clinical rehabilitation settings.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42509731 is a review article
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is associated with cognitive impairment. Serum biomarkers to detect subclinical brain injury or predict dementia in patients with anticoagulated AF are understudied.This study aimed to quantify neural injury biomarkers and assess their ability to predict incident dementia or moderate cognitive decline in patients with AF.Prospective longitudinal study of 120 patients with AF (mean age 71.1 ± 10.7 years; 62.5% male) without baseline dementia. Assessments at baseline and at 6, 12, and 24 months (60% completed all visits). Cognitive and functional measures included the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), the 11-item cognitive subscale of the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale (ADAS-cog11), the Disability Assessment for Dementia, and quality-of-life measures. Serum biomarkers measured were glial fibrillary acidic protein, neuron-specific enolase (NSE), tau, S100 calcium-binding protein B (S100B), and spectrin N-terminal fragment (SNT145). The primary endpoint was incident dementia (MMSE score <24 with memory-related quality-of-life impact). The secondary endpoint was moderate cognitive decline defined as >30% worsening in ADAS-cog11 or >30% decline in the Disability Assessment for Dementia.Comorbidities were common: hypertension 64.2%, heart failure 23%, diabetes 16%, and sleep apnea 30.8%; 2 had previous stroke. No participants met the criteria for incident dementia; 3 had an MMSE score of <24 without quality-of-life impact. At 24 months, 9 of 72 (12.5%) exhibited moderate cognitive decline by ADAS-cog11. Biomarkers indicated chronic subclinical stress rather than acute injury: S100B was persistently elevated (baseline 0.18 ± 0.23; 24 months 0.18 ± 0.19 pg/mL). SNT145 was elevated (baseline 2.85 ± 3.73; 24 months 2.36 ± 1.86 ng/mL). NSE and tau remained within normal ranges; inflammatory markers were persistently elevated. Changes in biomarker levels did not correlate with cognitive decline.Over 2 years, dementia incidence was low but 12.5% experienced moderate cognitive decline. Persistent elevations of S100B and SNT145 suggest ongoing subclinical brain injury in patients with anticoagulated AF without acute spikes in traditional stroke markers such as NSE.Copyright © 2026 Heart Rhythm Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Traumatic brain injury disrupts large-scale brain networks. Dynamic functional connectivity captures time-varying network interactions from functional MRI (fMRI) and provides insights into the brain's dynamic patterns of integration and segregation. Here, we investigate dynamic functional connectivity in subacute moderate-severe traumatic brain injury patients (10 days to 6 weeks post-injury) and explore the relationships with blood and imaging biomarkers of injury and propofol sedation. We hypothesized that traumatic brain injury patients would show less complex brain state dynamics that would be associated with greater injury severity measured by white matter integrity and blood biomarkers. Sixty-five subacute traumatic brain injury patients and 48 healthy controls underwent structural and resting-state fMRI. Patients were followed-up at 6 and 12 months post-injury. Plasma concentrations of neurofilament-light chain, microtubule-associated protein, glial fibrillary acidic protein, ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase L1, and serum S100 calcium-binding protein B were measured. Fractional anisotropy (FA), a measure of white matter integrity, was derived from diffusion-weighted imaging for a set of white matter tracts. Dynamic functional connectivity analysis was performed using a sliding-window approach. Correlations between time courses of 19 regions of interest representing the default mode network, bilateral frontaloparietal networks, and the salience network were calculated, and k-means clustering was applied to these connectivity matrices. Temporal characteristics of the resulting brain states, including fraction time, dwell time, number of transitions, and entropy of state transitions, were calculated. Four distinct brain states were identified. Brief periods of anticorrelation between key large-scale networks that support cognitive control were a dominant feature. Traumatic brain injury resulted in reduced temporal flexibility, less anticorrelated activity, and fewer transitions. Reduced entropy of state transitions was significantly associated with elevated blood-based biomarkers and reduced white matter integrity. Propofol sedation markedly reduced entropy. Dominance analysis identified glial fibrillary acidic protein, an astroglial plasma marker, as the strongest predictor of entropy. Preserved entropy during the subacute period was a significant predictor of 12-month functional outcomes. Entropy normalization at 6 months was associated with changes in glial fibrillary acidic protein, ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase L1, and microtubule-associated protein over the same time period. We show that dynamic functional connectivity is disrupted following moderate-to-severe traumatic brain injury and these effects are exacerbated by sedation. The observed reductions in brain state entropy indicate a loss of network segregation and a shift toward less complex and more predictable brain activity, with important implications for prognosis.
The development of hepatocellular carcinoma may be regulated by exosome-mediated cell-cell communication. GPC1-enriched exosomes have been associated with malignant phenotypes, while AQP1 has been related to tumor development and metastasis. The functional association of AQP1 and exosomal GPC1 in vivo remains to be clarified. Co-immunoprecipitation was applied to test the interaction of AQP1 with exosomal GPC1 in HCC cells. We generated a mouse xenograft model using control cells and AQP1 knockdown cells, with or without treatment with GPC1-high exosomes. Tumor growth was monitored by longitudinal caliper measurements and endpoint tumor weight. Histology and molecular characteristics were profiled using H&E staining, immunofluorescence, and immunohistochemistry. The proteins associated with ERK and MEK signaling pathways were detected through western blotting. Co-immunoprecipitation of AQP1 and GPC1 demonstrated a recovery of AQP1 and exosomal GPC1 in the same protein complex. AQP1 knockdown was accompanied by reduced xenograft tumor growth, and diminished tumor-promoting effect of GPC1-high exosomes. Tissue examinations revealed coordinated alterations in marker expression and proliferative state in all treatment groups. Total ERK and total MEK were largely similar across groups; phospho-ERK and phospho-MEK display condition-specific differences. Tumor AQP1 staining was markedly greater than that of peritumoral tissue. These data suggest that the AQP1 status may influence tumor sensitivity to GPC1 enriched exosomal stimulation in vivo, and suggest that further analysis of AQP1 as an effector in exosome related oncogenic activity in HCC is warranted.© 2026. The Author(s).
Postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) is common in the perioperative period among older adults and has been linked to inflammatory responses, neural injury-related biomarkers, and mood changes. Evidence for safe, feasible, and effective non-pharmacological interventions remains limited. This prospective, double-blind, randomized controlled trial evaluated the association between transcutaneous auricular vagus nerve stimulation (taVNS) and postoperative cognitive test performance, and examined concomitant changes in inflammatory and neural injury-related biomarkers and mood.A total of 103 older adults scheduled for elective laparoscopic gastrointestinal tumor resection were consecutively enrolled and randomly assigned to taVNS or sham stimulation; 99 participants completed follow-up and were included in the primary analysis. Cognitive function was assessed preoperatively and at postoperative day 1, day 7, month 1, and month 3 using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA). Serum interleukin-1β (IL-1β) and S100β were measured preoperatively and on postoperative day 7. Mood was assessed preoperatively and on postoperative day 7 using the 24-item Hamilton Depression Scale (HAMD-24).From postoperative day 7 onward, MoCA scores were higher in the taVNS group than in the sham group (p = 0.01), with differences maintained at postoperative months 1 and 3 (absolute between-group differences of 2.06 and 2.97 points, respectively; both p < 0.01). RM ANOVA and ANCOVA indicated significant main effects of time and a significant group × time interaction. On postoperative day 7, the taVNS group showed lower postoperative IL-1β and S100β levels than the control group (both p < 0.001) and a smaller worsening in HAMD-24 scores. ΔMoCA was negatively correlated with ΔIL-1β (r = -0.425), ΔS100β (r = -0.248), and ΔHAMD-24 (r = -0.234). Exploratory stratified analyses showed broadly consistent effect directions across subgroups. Adverse event rates were similar between groups (approximately 4.1% in each), and events were mild local reactions.In this exploratory randomized controlled trial, perioperative taVNS was associated with a more favorable MoCA trajectory after laparoscopic gastrointestinal tumor surgery in older adults, with between-group differences in IL-1β, S100β, and HAMD-24 on postoperative day 7. Clinical significance and generalizability require confirmation in larger studies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The multifaceted oncogenic role of teratocarcinoma-derived growth factor 1 (TDGF1) in colon cancer remains incompletely understood. Through integrative bioinformatic and functional analyses, we identified a novel competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) axis wherein the long non-coding RNA OLMALINC directly sponges hsa-miR-3614-5p, leading to the derepression of TDGF1. This OLMALINC/miR-3614-5p/TDGF1 axis promoted colon cancer cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and anti-apoptosis in vitro, whereas TDGF1 knockdown significantly suppressed tumor growth in vivo. Mechanistically, TDGF1 co-activated oncogenic signaling via the Thr88-dependent Nodal/Smad2 cascade and the Glypican-1-mediated MAPK/AKT pathway. Beyond cell-autonomous effects, transcriptomic and single-cell analyses revealed that elevated TDGF1 correlates with an immunosuppressive microenvironment, characterized by reduced immune infiltration and altered LGALS9-CD44 malignant-T cell communication. Clinically, high TDGF1 expression in a tissue microarray cohort was significantly associated with advanced T stage, reduced expression of specific mismatch repair proteins (MLH1/PMS2), and poor overall survival. Collectively, this study delineates the OLMALINC/miR-3614-5p/TDGF1 regulatory circuit and establishes TDGF1 as a multifaceted driver of tumor progression, highlighting its potential as a prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target in colon cancer.
Reliable biomarkers that capture central nervous system (CNS) processes during the earliest stages of psychosis are critically needed to improve early treatment and response monitoring. Brain-derived extracellular vesicles (BDEVs) that traverse the blood-brain barrier (BBB) can be isolated from peripheral blood, thereby offering a novel and minimally invasive approach to quantify CNS molecular biomarkers. We hypothesized that BDEV abundance and BDEV neuroinflammatory and neurotrophic protein cargo would differ between individuals with first-episode psychosis (FEP) and healthy controls (HCs), reflecting altered neuroinflammatory signalling and extracellular biology associated with psychosis and clinical outcomes. In a cohort of untreated individuals with FEP (n = 57) and HCs (n = 28), BDEVs were isolated from serum. Luminex assays quantified concentrations of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), S100 calcium-binding protein B (S100B), and C-reactive protein (CRP) in BDEVs and serum. A subset of FEP participants (n = 34) subsequently completed four weeks of antipsychotic treatment. Group differences in BDEV characteristics and protein measures, as well as their associations with case-control status, baseline symptom severtity, and four-week symptom change, were examined. FEP participants showed a trend toward higher BDEV concentration than HCs (median 14.0 × 108 versus 10.2 × 108 particles/mL, p = 0.052), and higher baseline BDEV concentrations were significantly associated with more severe pretreatment symptoms (β = 4.09 × 10-10, p = 0.003) and greater symptom improvement after four-week antipsychotic treatment (β = 3.29 × 10-10, p = 0.029). Within BDEVs, BDNF (β = -1.05; p = 0.0018) and CRP (β = -0.84; p = 0.002) were significantly reduced in FEP vs HC, with a trend toward lower S100B level (β = -0.57; p = 0.061). In contrast, serum protein levels showed no case-control differences and did not correlate with corresponding BDEV protein levels. Lower baseline BDEV BDNF, S100B, and CRP were associated with greater therapeutic response among males. BDEVs offer a minimally invasive window into CNS-enriched biology in early psychosis. BDEV abundance and neuroinflammatory and neurotrophic cargo concentrations show associations with illness severity and sex-specific treatment response not detectable in serum, supporting their potential as biomarkers for early pathophysiology and treatment response in FEP.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Pain in Parkinson's disease (PD) is common and significantly reduces quality of life, yet it is often poorly managed. As current treatments have limitations, acupuncture may offer a non-pharmacological option. This trial aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of acupuncture versus sham acupuncture for pain in PD.This prospective, double-blind, randomized controlled trial will enroll 66 patients with Parkinson's disease-related pain at the First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine between April 2026 and June 2027. Participants will be allocated via block randomization to either an acupuncture group or a sham acupuncture group. Rigorous blinding of patients, practitioners, outcome assessors, and statisticians will be implemented. Both groups will receive 12 sessions (3 sessions per week for 4 weeks) of their assigned intervention while maintaining stable anti-PD medication. The primary outcome is the change in the King's Parkinson's Disease Pain Scale (KPPS) score. Secondary outcomes include the painDETECT Questionnaire (PD-Q), Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS), 39-item Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire (PDQ-39), Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD), somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEPs), and serum levels of Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha (TNF-α), S100 calcium-binding protein B (S100B), and Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein (GFAP). All analyses will follow the intention-to-treat principle.Pain in PD is prevalent but undertreated due to limited evidence, invasiveness, or high cost of current therapies. This study aims to determine if acupuncture significantly reduces pain scores compared to sham acupuncture, potentially offering an effective, safe, and cost-effective complementary option. By assessing changes in serum biomarkers, it will also explore whether acupuncture's effects involve modulating neuroinflammation. With its rigorous design, this trial is expected to provide high-level evidence for integrating acupuncture into PD pain management.International Traditional Medicine Clinical Trial Registry (ITMCTR2026000325).© 2026 Wu et al.
Visual dysfunction due to optic neuritis (ON) is an early clinical manifestation of multiple sclerosis (MS). ON is characterized by inflammation of the optic nerve, demyelination, axonal damage, and retinal ganglion cell (RGC) loss. Previously, we showed that spermine oxidase (SMOX), a polyamine catabolizing enzyme, modulates visual function in an experimental model of ON. Using proteomic analysis, the present study aimed to identify SMOX-regulated molecular pathways involved in ON-associated visual dysfunction.Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) was induced in wild-type (WT) and SMOX-deficient (Smox KO) mice. Clinical scoring of mice was recorded daily. Optic nerves from WT and Smox KO EAE mice and their controls were collected and analyzed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Pathway enrichment and comparative analyses were performed to identify key processes and pathways regulated by SMOX. Immunofluorescence was performed to detect changes in the expression of key proteins.Smox KO EAE mice showed delayed and reduced clinical scores. Pathway enrichment analysis identified several key processes affected in EAE, including regulation of the actin cytoskeleton, tight junction integrity, and platelet activation/aggregation. The comparative analysis of the WT EAE and Smox KO EAE proteomes, together with false discovery rate (FDR)-corrected pathway enrichment analysis, indicated attenuation of neuroinflammatory pathways in the SMOX-deficient optic nerve. Furthermore, SMOX deficiency restored key cytoskeletal and cellular-adhesion proteins essential for neuronal integrity. Immunofluorescence studies confirmed dysregulation of receptor for activated C kinase 1 (RACK1), actinin alpha 4 (ACTN4), high mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), and S100 calcium-binding protein B (S100B), critical proteins involved in immune signaling, cytoskeletal stability, and inflammation.These findings indicate the impact of SMOX on inflammation and cytoskeletal stabilization in ON and its potential as a therapeutic target in preserving vision in MS.
To determine whether blood-based biomarkers in the first days of life could specifically predict cerebral palsy (CP) and/or cognitive/language delay in infants with moderate-severe hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE).A secondary analysis of the High-dose Erythropoietin for Asphyxia and Encephalopathy trial, which examined erythropoietin as an adjunct to therapeutic hypothermia for moderate-severe HIE. Recruitment took place in the United States from 2017-2019. Analysis focused on 180 infants with biomarker measurements performed at baseline, day 2, and day 4 of life. Outcomes assessed were: a diagnosis of CP at 2 years and Bayley III cognitive/language scores <85 and, separately, <70 at 2 years. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain was performed on day 4-6 of life.Mean gestational age was 39.0 weeks and 68 (44%) were female. After adjusting for multiple comparisons, 5 biomarkers: total tubulin-associated protein (Tau), glial fibrillary acidic protein, vascular endothelial growth factor, macrophage inflammatory protein 1b, and interleukin-13 were significantly altered in the CP group. On day 2 of life, Tau resulted in a receiver operating characteristic area under the curve (AUC) of 0.902 (95% CI: 0.812-0.992), specificity 91%, and sensitivity 88%, performing as well as detailed MRI scoring (AUC: 0.90 [95% CI: 0.80-1.0]). A different set of biomarkers showed altered expression in those with cognitive/language delay; Tau, ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase L1, S100 calcium-binding protein B, and neuron-specific enolase, with the best prediction seen with Tau on day 2 of life (AUC: 0.669 [95% CI: 0.564-0.774], sensitivity 40%, specificity 92%).Tau on day 2 of life demonstrated excellent prognostic value for CP in this cohort with moderate-severe HIE and gave similar prediction to detailed MRI score on day of life 4-6. Patterns of neurospecific biomarker perturbations were different for the prediction of cognitive/language delay, but Tau on day 2 remained the best performing biomarker.ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02811263.Copyright © 2026 University College Cork. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Current therapies for Alzheimer's disease (AD) offer only symptomatic relief, highlighting the urgent need for disease-modifying approaches capable of halting or reversing neurodegeneration. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) have attracted growing interest as therapeutic vehicles owing to their inherent capacity to bypass the blood-brain barrier and deliver complex biological cargo to the central nervous system.Here, we examined whether large EVs (LEVs) derived from microglia with stable Sirtuin-2 knockdown (SIRT2-KD) confer the neuroprotective effects associated with SIRT2 inhibition. LEVs harvested from SIRT2-KD microglia were administered intranasally to APP/PS1 mice. We assessed microglial uptake of LEVs, along with subsequent changes in cellular metabolism, migration toward amyloid-beta (Aβ) plaques, phagocytic activity, and downstream pathological and behavioral outcomes. Proteomic and acetylomic profiling were employed to characterize the molecular cargo of LEVs-SIRT2-KD.LEVs-SIRT2-KD were readily internalized by microglia in vivo following intranasal delivery. Uptake of these vesicles markedly enhanced microglial bioenergetics, driving coordinated upregulation of both oxidative phosphorylation and glycolysis. This metabolic shift was accompanied by improved microglial recruitment to Aβ plaques and increased phagocytic clearance. Consequently, treated mice showed reduced Aβ plaque deposition, restored synaptic integrity, and reversal of cognitive deficits. Proteomic and acetylomic analyses revealed that LEVs-SIRT2-KD are selectively enriched in proteins and acetylation modifications linked to energy metabolism and phagocytic function, offering a mechanistic basis for the observed metabolic reprogramming.Together, these results identify LEVs as a critical vesicle subtype mediating the effects of SIRT2 knockdown and support a cell-free therapeutic strategy for AD centered on EVs-driven metabolic reprogramming of microglia.© 2026. The Author(s).
Inflammation is a key driver of age-related disease and has been associated with social conditions. We examined how cumulative community-level social and structural disadvantage is associated with inflammatory proteomic profiles in older Black adults.We employed data from the Minority Aging Research Study and the Rush Clinical Core, including the Social Vulnerability Index (SVI; global score and four domains) and 92 plasma inflammatory proteins (Olink® Target-96 Inflammation). Cross-sectional associations between each SVI metric and inflammatory proteins (principal component (PC)-derived global proteomic profile and protein-specific) were assessed using multivariable linear models (demographic, behavioral, and individual-level socioeconomic factors adjusted), with additional sex-by-SVI interaction terms. In a secondary analysis, we replaced SVI with the Index of Concentration at the Extremes (ICE) for household income (ICEincome).A total of 580 participants (mean (SD) age of 74.9 (6.50) years; 79.7% women) had global SVI and proteomics assessed. Lower household composition (SVIHHC) was associated with the primary global proteomic profile, represented by the 1st proteomic PC (beta = -0.429, p-value = 0.019). A secondary exploratory analysis using the first five proteomic PCs showed that higher minority status/language (SVIMSL) and socioeconomic status (SVISES) were associated with an inflammatory proteomic profile (SVIMSL-PC3: beta=0.160, p-value = 0.048; SVISES-PC2: beta = 0.286, p-value = 0.012). In protein-specific analyses, no SVI-protein associations were found. We found an SVIHHC-by-sex interaction for interleukin-10 receptor alpha (IL-10RA; beta = -0.258, p-value = 5.01×10-4), and among men, SVIMSL was associated with Sirtuin 2 (beta = -0.397, p-value = 8.51×10-04) and STAM binding protein (beta = -0.304, p-value = 9.87×10-04). ICEincome was inversely associated with the global proteomic profile (beta = -0.233, p-value = 0.051), and an ICEincome-by-sex interaction was found for IL-10RA (beta=0.279, p-value = 4.66×10-04).By analyzing associations between community-level factors and inflammation-related proteins, our study provides new molecular insights into how social context may relate to biological risk, identifies proteomic patterns that could inform the development of community-level interventions, and underscores the utility of integrating multi-omics approaches to investigate biological pathways relevant to health disparities research.© 2026. The Author(s).
SIRT2 (Sirtuin 2) is an NAD+-dependent deacetylase that exerts crucial regulatory effects on immune homeostasis and macrophage activation. While chronic cold exposure is a known predisposing factor for pulmonary dysfunction, the precise mechanisms by which SIRT2 potentially modulates lung macrophage polarization under cold stress remains poorly understood. In this study, we evaluated the protective capacity of SIRT2 using both wild-type (WT) and Sirt2-knockout (Sirt2-/-) murine models subjected to chronic cold exposure (4 °C for 3 h daily over 21 days). Our results demonstrated that Sirt2 deficiency significantly exacerbated cold-induced pulmonary histopathological damage and increased the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6) (p < 0.05). Furthermore, chronic cold stress triggered a macrophage-centered inflammatory response, a process wherein SIRT2 was found to curtail M1 pro-inflammatory polarization. To further investigate these mechanisms, in vitro experiments were conducted using the mouse alveolar macrophage cell line MH-S. While LPS was utilized as a canonical inflammatory stimulus to mimic the injury environment, SIRT2 overexpression was found to reverse the LPS-induced increase in M1 markers and attenuate inflammatory cytokine secretion. These findings suggest that SIRT2 maintains intracellular homeostasis by modulating macrophage plasticity and plays a protective role in the development of chronic cold stimulus-induced lung injury. Consequently, SIRT2 activation may represent a potential therapeutic pathway for the treatment of environment-related respiratory diseases.
Lenvatinib, a first-line therapy for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), is frequently compromised by the development of acquired resistance. Although aberrant protein ubiquitination contributes to drug resistance, the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. In this study, we identify ubiquitin-specific protease 32 (USP32) as a clinically significant oncogene that is overexpressed in HCC and closely associated with aggressive tumor progression and lenvatinib resistance. USP32 knockdown markedly inhibits tumor growth, metastasis, and restores lenvatinib sensitivity both in vitro and in vivo, whereas USP32 overexpression aggravates malignant behaviors. Mechanistically, USP32 directly interacts with and deubiquitinates DEAD-box helicase 17 (DDX17) by cleaving K48-linked polyubiquitin chains, thereby stabilizing DDX17. Furthermore, DDX17 transcriptionally represses the tumor-suppressive microRNA miR-3163, leading to hyperactivation of the MAPK signaling pathway involved in lenvatinib resistance. Notably, combined treatment with the MAPK inhibitor selumetinib and lenvatinib synergistically overcomes drug resistance in lenvatinib-resistant xenograft models. Collectively, our findings identify USP32 as an important regulator of HCC malignancy and lenvatinib resistance via the DDX17/miR-3163/MAPK axis, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target in refractory HCC.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study explored the mechanism of matrine-induced apoptosis in human retinoblastoma (RB) cell. Network pharmacology and proteomics approaches were employed to screen the intersection between the pharmacodynamic targets of matrine and the pathogenic targets of RB, and to identify the key signaling pathways underlying the anti-RB effect of matrine. Cytological experiments were used to evaluate cell proliferation, apoptosis, and the expression of PI3K/AKT pathway and apoptosis-related proteins. Results showed matrine inhibited Y79 and WERI-Rb-1 cell growth time- and dose-dependently, suppressed migration, and induced apoptosis. Integrated omics analysis identified Nuclear Receptor Subfamily 1 Group D Member 2 (NR1D2) as a primary responsive target. Matrine markedly downregulated NR1D2 expression at both the mRNA and protein levels. Matrine treatment and NR1D2 interference significantly promoted apoptosis (P < 0.05), while NR1D2 overexpression antagonized the pro-apoptotic effect of matrine. Total PI3K and AKT levels were unchanged, but their phosphorylated forms were altered; matrine-induced apoptosis correlated with Bax, Cleaved Caspase-3 upregulation and Bcl-2 downregulation. Thus, matrine inhibits RB Y79 cell growth by downregulating NR1D2, inhibiting PI3K/AKT phosphorylation and inducing RB cell apoptosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Aversive memories formed during drug withdrawal can potentiate compulsive drug-seeking behavior. Dynamic rearrangement of the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic spines is crucial for aversive memory formation. We previously discovered that actin polymerization in the dorsal hippocampus plays a key role in this process, but the molecular mechanisms governing this reorganization remain unclear.Conditioned morphine withdrawal-induced conditioned place aversion behavior in male Sprague Dawley rats was developed to evaluate aversive memory associated with opioid withdrawal. Contextual fear conditioning and appetitive conditioning paradigms were used to assess the behavioral specificity of the identified mechanisms. Western blots and dendritic spine imaging detected actin rearrangement and spine density. Co-immunoprecipitation, genetic manipulation, and pharmacological approaches were used to investigate sirtuin 2 (Sirt 2) and its downstream signaling.We demonstrate that Sirt 2, an NAD+-dependent deacetylase, critically regulates dorsal hippocampal actin polymerization and opioid withdrawal-associated aversive memory through modification of microtubules (MTs). Sirt 2-induced tubulin deacetylation triggers EB3 dephosphorylation by promoting translocation of Ca2+-dependent phosphatase calcineurin to MTs. This enhances EB3-drebrin interaction, driving actin remodeling through the p140Cap/Src/cortactin/cofilin pathway. Furthermore, pharmacological inhibition of Sirt 2 also attenuated contextual fear conditioning and showed a trend toward reducing appetitive conditioning, indicating a shared role across multiple memory processes.The current study elucidates the molecular mechanisms by which Sirt 2 regulates dorsal hippocampal actin dynamics and drives opioid withdrawal memory and associative learning. Our findings reveal a broader role for Sirt 2 in multiple forms of associative memory, offering potential therapeutic insights for withdrawal-induced compulsive behaviors and other memory-related disorders.Copyright © 2026 Society of Biological Psychiatry. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Negative frequency-dependent selection (FDS) can increase both genetic diversity and population-level mean fitness. While the dual consequence of negative FDS has been theoretically recognized, its genomic basis remains unknown. To explore a genetic link between negative FDS and overyielding, I conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of neighbour genotypic effects on the growth of 98 Arabidopsis thaliana genotypes. By incorporating neighbour genotypic similarity, this GWAS analysis detected the most significant single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) on the fifth chromosome of A. thaliana, which was 6 kbp from a known locus responsible for indirect genetic effects. I found negative FDS on the most significant SNP, where individual plants increased their biomass in the presence of neighbours with a dissimilar allele. I also observed overyielding in which a biallelic mixture of the most significant SNP showed a 3% increase in biomass compared with monoallelic conditions. Furthermore, I focused on the genomic region near the most significant SNP and found a signature of balancing selection near a negative regulator of ethylene responses, SIRTUIN 2. The present analysis uncovered a quantitative trait locus linking balanced polymorphisms and overyielding in A. thaliana, providing a proof of principle to understand the maintenance of polymorphism and its positive impact on population productivity. This article is part of the theme issue 'Exploring negative frequency-dependent selection across levels: from genetics to ecology and back again'.© 2026 The Author(s).
In aquatic invertebrates, hemolymph is critical for host-environment interaction. Although maintaining microbial homeostasis in hemolymph is significant for disease pathogenesis, the key regulatory mechanisms remain elusive. This study investigates the essential role of the respiratory glycoprotein hemocyanin (HMC) in modulating hemolymph microbial composition in penaeid shrimp. Hemocyanin-depleted shrimp infected with Vibrio parahaemolyticus (Vp) exhibited disruptions in the niacinamide (NAM) salvage pathway, attenuated plasma niacinamide and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) levels, and reduced transcripts of key enzymes. These alterations correlated with an increased total bacterial load and a higher abundance of opportunistic pathogens like Vibrio and Shewanella. Hemocyanin likely modulates niacinamide metabolism through interactions with Litopenaeus vannamei nicotinamide riboside kinase 1 (LvNRK1), sirtuin 2 (LvSIRT2), and sirtuin 6 (LvSIRT6). Remarkably, niacinamide supplementation after hemocyanin knockdown restored hemolymph microbial balance, reduced Vibrio dominance, and improved shrimp survival against V. parahaemolyticus infection, but not Gram-positive Staphylococcus aureus (Sa). These findings provide novel insights into the pivotal role of niacinamide metabolism in regulating shrimp hemolymph microbial composition via hemocyanin.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the International Society for Microbial Ecology.
Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis (GIOP) is the most common secondary osteoporosis, which characterized by the decreased bone strength and increased fracture risk. But the pathogenic causes of GIOP remains not completely yet. In this study, we investigated the effect of Cyp26b1, a key enzyme for all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) degradation, on the osteogenic inhibitory effect of dexamethasone (DEX) in mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) and revealed the possible mechanism through which DEX regulates the expression of Cyp26b1.MSCs were induced with osteogenic induction medium in vitro to establish the osteogenic model, and high concentration (10- 6 M) of DEX was utilized to treat MSCs to exert its osteogenic inhibitory effect. ATRA content was detected with ELISA, real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), western blot, and immunofluorescence staining were employed to detect hall markers for osteogenic differentiation. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay was used to detect the binding of promoter region of target gene. The rat GIOP model was constructed by intraperitoneal injection of DEX, and the adeno-associated virus was injected via tail vein after the model was constructed. The bone samples were subjected with µ-CT scanning, H&E, and Masson trichrome staining, respectively.DEX (10- 6 M) decreased the levels of osteogenic markers induced by osteogenic induction medium (OIM) in MSCs, and it was almost reversed by ATRA. But this effect of ATRA was obviously eliminated by overexpression of Cyp26b1. The mRNA expression level of Cyp26b1 was significantly increased by DEX (10- 6 M), and the content of retinoic acid was decreased in cells. Osteogenic markers decreased by DEX (10- 6 M) were recovered by Cyp26b1 knockdown, whereas Cyp26b1 overexpression exerted the opposite effect. DEX (10- 6 M) increased the activation of NF-κB signaling, and the osteogenic inhibitory effects of DEX were ameliorated by NF-κB inhibitors which was almost abolished by Cyp26b1 overexpression. The mRNA level of Cyp26b1 was up-regulated by DEX (10- 8 M and 10- 6 M), but the degradation of Cyp26b1 was promoted by DEX (10- 8 M) only via the lysosomal pathway.The osteogenic inhibitory effect of high concentration of DEX may be resulted from the disturbance of retinoic acid signaling. The expression of Cyp26b1 can be up-regulated by either low or high concentration of DEX, but its degradation can only be inhibited by high concentration of DEX. The effect of DEX on Cyp26b1 expression was partially mediated by activating NF-κB signaling in MSCs.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lysosomal defects are closely linked to Parkinson's disease (PD). Mutations in the GBA1 gene, encoding the lysosomal enzyme glucocerebrosidase (GCase), are major genetic risk factors for PD. GBA1 deficiency causes lysosomal dysfunction, leading to α-synuclein (α-syn) accumulation and PD progression. However, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, we identified a novel GBA1-KAT8 regulatory pathway that controls lysosomal activity. GBA1 overexpression enhances lysosomal enzyme expression, regulates histone H4 acetylation at K16 via KAT8, and promotes lysosome-associated gene expression, highlighting an epigenetic mechanism in lysosomal biogenesis. Furthermore, GBA1 upregulated KAT8 expression, increased lysosomal enzyme levels, and decreased PFF-induced α-syn accumulation both in vitro and in vivo. The involvement of KAT8 as a critical acetyltransferase that modulates nuclear-lysosomal signaling pathways provides a mechanistic explanation for GBA1 deficiency-induced lysosomal dysfunction in association with PD pathology.© 2026. The Author(s).
Macrophages play central role in driving airway inflammation during asthma pathogenesis, though the molecular mechanism governing their function remains incompletely understood. Here, we demonstrate that lysine acetyltransferase 8 (KAT8) plays a critical role in papain-induced neutrophilic airway inflammation through post-translational modification of poly(C)-binding protein 1 (PCBP1). We show that papain exposure significantly upregulates KAT8 expression in lung macrophages both in vivo and in vitro. Myeloid-specific Kat8 deficiency conferred protection against papain-induced airway inflammation, reducing CXCL1 and CXCL2 production and consequent neutrophil recruitment. Mechanistically, KAT8 interacted with PCBP1 via its C2HC zinc finger domain and acetylated it at lysine 119 (K119), an essential modification for CXCL1 and CXCL2 secretion. Moreover, KAT8 enhanced M1 macrophage polarization in papain-exposed mice. Importantly, pharmacological inhibition of KAT8 significantly attenuated neutrophil infiltration and allergic airway inflammation in vivo. Our findings establish KAT8 as a pivotal regulator of neutrophilic airway inflammation through PCBP1 acetylation and highlight the KAT8-PCBP1 axis as a promising therapeutic target for severe asthma.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Thoracic Society. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Programmed cell death protein 1/its ligand 1 (PD-1/PD-L1) blockade has revolutionized cancer immunotherapy, yet its efficacy is limited by incomplete checkpoint inhibition and persistent PD-L1 transcription. In this work, lysine acetyltransferase 8 (KAT8) is identified as a nucleator of liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS)-mediated condensates that concentrate transcription factors to drive sustained PD-L1 transcription and promote immune resistance. Leveraging this mechanism, a PD-1-functionalized hybrid vesicle-liposome platform (PD-1-HVL-siKAT8) is developed to deliver small interfering RNA (siRNA) targeting KAT8 for LLPS modulation and enhanced cancer immunotherapy. In this platform, the PD-1-presenting vesicles enable tumor accumulation and PD-L1 blockade, while the fused liposomes provide efficient siRNA encapsulation and cytosolic release, leading to potent KAT8 silencing and condensate dissolution. This LLPS modulator platform markedly suppresses PD-L1 expression and reshapes the tumor immune microenvironment, augmenting type I interferon signaling, dendritic cell maturation, cytotoxic T-cell activation, and M1-like macrophage polarization. In subcutaneous and recurrent hepatocellular carcinoma models, PD-1-HVL-siKAT8 significantly inhibits tumor growth, prevents recurrence, and extends survival with negligible toxicity. Collectively, this approach integrates PD-L1 blockade with disruption of LLPS-dependent transcription for durable immunotherapy.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Effective alveolar repair after viral lung injury requires precise coordination of alveolar type 2 cell (AT2) proliferation and differentiation to restore lung function. To uncover causal regulators of this process in the native tissue environment, we developed SAGE (Stable Adeno-Associated Virus Genomic IntEgration), an engineered AAV system that enables high-throughput in vivo genetic interrogation. SAGE supports both bulk phenotypic screening (SAGE-Perturb) and single-cell transcriptomic profiling (SAGE-Perturb-seq). Using this approach, we identified lysine acetyltransferase 8 (Kat8) as essential for epithelial repair following viral infection through the Non-Specific-Lethal (NSL) complex, and generated a time-resolved, high-resolution functional map of transcription factor knockouts during alveolar repair, revealing transcription factor dependences for distinct alveolar epithelial repair trajectories. This map further defined two independent AT2-derived transitional states: a reparative state, and a pathological state that is transcriptionally similar to the basaloid population observed in human pulmonary fibrosis. Disruption of transcription factors in the NF-κB pathway prevented the emergence of the pathological transitional state, linking inflammation and maladaptive epithelial remodeling. SAGE represents a versatile platform for functional genomics in vivo, with applications extending across respiratory biology and disease.
Vascular senescence is a fundamental driver of age-related cardiovascular diseases, yet the epigenetic mechanisms controlling this process remain poorly understood. This study investigated the role and underlying mechanisms of lysine acetyltransferase 8 (KAT8), a key histone acetyltransferase, in maintaining endothelial cell homeostasis and preventing vascular senescence. We found that KAT8 expression is consistently downregulated in human aged vessels, senescent rats and mice, and cellular models of aging. Using CRISPR-Cas9-based loss-of-function and gain-of-function approaches in endothelial cells, C57BL/6J mice, and ApoE-/- mice models, we demonstrated that KAT8 deficiency exacerbates aging phenotypes, while its overexpression attenuates vascular senescence. Integrated multi-omics analysis, including miRNA-seq, ATAC-seq, and RNA-seq, revealed that hsa-miR-339-3p is responsible for the age-related downregulation of KAT8. Furthermore, we identified that KAT8 suppresses vascular senescence by regulating the inhibin beta (INHBA)/TGF-β/P15 signaling axis. Our findings establish KAT8 as a critical epigenetic guardian against vascular aging and propose targeting the KAT8/INHBA pathway as a novel therapeutic strategy for age-related vascular diseases.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1002/mco2.70205.].© 2025 The Author(s). MedComm published by Sichuan International Medical Exchange & Promotion Association (SCIMEA) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Osteoporosis (OP) is a systemic skeletal disorder marked by reduced bone density and deterioration of trabecular microstructure. Recent studies have established ferroptosis as a major contributor to osteoporotic bone loss; however, the specific molecular mechanisms underlying this process remain incompletely understood. In this study, RNA sequencing revealed decreased expression of protein tyrosine kinase 2 (PTK2) in OP, while bioinformatics analyses identified a significant association between PTK2 and the ferroptosis-related gene P53. Mechanistically, lysine acetyltransferase 8 (MOF) acts as a key acetyltransferase for P53 acetylation. We found that PTK2 negatively regulates ferroptosis by competitively binding with MOF, thereby inhibiting both the acetylation and succinylation of P53 at the K120 site. This inhibition restores the transcriptional expression of fibronectin 1 (FN1). Using computer-aided molecular docking, we identified vaccarin-a bioactive small-molecule compound from the Selleck.cn natural product library-as a PTK2-targeting agent. Vaccarin not only suppressed erastin-induced ferroptosis but also enhanced the osteogenic differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs). Finally, we demonstrated that adenoviral overexpression of PTK2 (ADV-PTK2) or treatment with Vaccarin attenuated ovariectomy (OVX)-induced ferroptosis and osteoporosis in mice. These findings highlight PTK2 as a promising therapeutic target for OP and suggest that targeting PTK2-mediated ferroptosis inhibition may offer a novel therapeutic approach for osteoporosis management.© 2025. The Author(s).
Psoriasis is a persistent inflammatory skin disease characterized by the adverse infiltration of inflammatory cells and epidermal hyperplasia. Self-RNA is the most abundant damage-associated molecular pattern (DAMP) in psoriasis tissues, which triggers and amplifies inflammatory responses through TLR7 pathway. However, the pathogenic effects of self-RNA on immune cell activation and chemotaxis during psoriasis and the underlying mechanisms remain largely unknown. Epigenetic modifications are widely acknowledged to link the environmental signals to gene expression in various immune cells, whose dysfunction tends to cause or worsen various inflammatory diseases. Through a comprehensive analysis of histone modifications in lesional skin from both psoriasis patients and mice, the significantly increased level of histone acetylation at H4 lysine 16 (H4K16ac) in macrophages was found, which was positively correlated with the accumulation of self-RNA in the dermis and psoriasis pathology. Further studies showed that lysine acetyltransferase 8 (KAT8) was responsible for self-RNA-driven H4K16ac modification and psoriasis-associated pathogenic chemokine expression in macrophages of lesional skin. Mechanistically, KAT8 was selectively recruited to the gene promoters of pathogenic chemokines including Cxcl2 and Ccl3 through interaction with AP-1 transcription complex. The auto-acetylation of KAT8 enhanced its acetyltransferase activity. KAT8-mediated H4K16ac modification at these chemokine promoters, coupling with increased chromatin accessibility, facilitated the production and secretion of pro-inflammatory chemokines CXCL2 and CCL3 for neutrophil chemotaxis, neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) formation and aggravated inflammatory damage in psoriasis. KAT8 deficiency in macrophages or pharmacological inhibition restricted the secretion of macrophage-derived pro-inflammatory chemokines and ameliorated TLR7-dependent tissue inflammatory injury in experimental psoriasis and arthritis model. Taken together, our finding provides new insight into the role of epigenetic modification in self-RNA/TLR7 pathway-dependent immune cell activation and chemotaxis during psoriasis, which proposes the promising therapeutic strategy to control the inflammatory damage and psoriatic skin dysfunction by targeting KAT8 and KAT8-mediated H4K16ac modification in dermis macrophages.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to ADMC Associazione Differenziamento e Morte Cellulare.
Human bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) are an attractive candidate for cell therapy in heart disease. Low survival and incomplete electromechanical integration between resident cardiomyocytes and transplanted hMSCs remain unsolved. In order for an infarcted heart to tolerate transplantation, differentiation capacity in stem cells must be reinforced. In this study, we found that compound 56, an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitor, promotes cardiogenic differentiation of hMSCs and the transplantation of hMSCs treated with compound 56 resulted in enhancement of heart functions. Furthermore, hMSCs transfected with microRNA-133a (miR-133a), which targets EGFR, were observed to express cardiac-specific markers. We also discovered that luciferase activity is exclusively decreased by targeting EGFR in hMSCs transfected with miR-133a mimic. These results suggest that EGFR plays a key role in the regulation of cardiogenic differentiation in hMSCs.Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
