Although nucleophosmin (NPM1) is a well-characterized oncogene in acute myeloid leukemia, much less is known about its role in solid tumor immunity. Here, we examined the function of NPM1 in regulating anti-tumor immunity within the tumor microenvironment.The proportion and functional changes of macrophages and T cells were detected by flow cytometry, the downstream regulatory genes of NPM1 were detected by RNA-seq, the binding ability of NPM1 and STAT3 was analyzed by Chip and luciferase assay.NPM1 inhibition or genetic deficiency promoted tumor growth in MC38 colon cancer and LLC lung cancer mice models. Npm1+/- mice exhibited enhanced infiltration and polarization of immunosuppressive M2-like tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) and impaired CD8+ T cell function. Mechanistically, NPM1 bound to p-TAT3/STAT3 and promoted transcription of CCRL2, a key regulator of macrophage polarization. Overexpression of Npm1 in mice suppressed tumor growth, reduced M2 TAMs polarization, and enhanced CD8+ T cell-mediated anti-tumor immunity.Our findings revealed that NPM1 protects against tumor progression by regulating TAMs polarization and T cell function via the STAT3-CCRL2 axis.Copyright © 2026 Hong, Yang, Han, Ouyang, Sun and Zhao.
Atherosclerotic lesions contain heterogeneous macrophage populations with divergent functional phenotypes that play opposing roles in disease progression, creating a major obstacle for the development of macrophage-targeted therapy. The identification of novel molecules that exhibit both preferential expression and functional activity in inflammatory plaque macrophages is crucial for the development of more specific anti-inflammatory therapies against atherosclerosis. Here, we report that the expression of C-C motif chemokine receptor-like 2 (CCRL2), a nonsignaling atypical chemokine receptor initially cloned from LPS-activated macrophages, progressively increased in atherosclerotic lesions during disease progression in both human and mouse models, with predominant expression in inflammatory macrophages characterized by high expression of NLRP3 inflammasome components. Moreover, specific deletion of hematopoietic CCRL2 attenuated atherosclerotic progression in Apoe-/- mice fed a high-cholesterol diet, as evidenced by significant decreases in plaque burden, macrophage accumulation, and NLRP3 inflammasome activation within the plaques, without affecting blood lipid levels. Mechanistically, ox-LDL or other danger signals induce macrophages to express CCRL2, which can be endocytosed and relocalized to early endosomes, where it interacts with NLRP3 to promote inflammasome assembly and activation. Importantly, macrophage-targeted nanoparticle delivery of Ccrl2-siRNA effectively attenuated atherosclerotic progression in vivo, concomitant with reduced levels of IL-1β, the key effector cytokine of the NLRP3 inflammasome, and diminished macrophage accumulation within plaques. Taken together, the results of our study establish CCRL2 as both a new marker for identifying inflammatory macrophages and a promising anti-inflammatory therapeutic target for atherosclerosis through the modulation of aberrant NLRP3 inflammasome activation in pathogenic inflammatory macrophages.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to CSI and USTC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42415929 is a review article
This study aimed to investigate the spatial cellular architecture and molecular interactions in healthy and inflamed dental pulp using spatial transcriptomics (Visium HD), to elucidate the pathological mechanisms of pulpitis and identify potential therapeutic targets for vital pulp therapy.Spatial transcriptomic sequencing was performed on dental pulp tissues from two healthy individuals and two pulpitis patients, with integrated analyses including Seurat clustering, cell trajectory inference, GO enrichment, CellphoneDB interaction network modelling and PROGENy pathway activity assessment to compare cellular heterogeneity and signalling regulation.Nine major cell types (fibroblasts, progenitor cells, endothelial cells, neural cells, plasma cells, B cells, T cells, monocytes and macrophages) were identified, and their spatial distribution was mapped. Subclustering and differential expression analysis revealed that fibroblast (e.g., APOL2+/CCN2+) and progenitor cell (e.g., CDK5R1+/CCRL2+) subclusters exacerbated fibrosis and immune activation, while TMPRSS4+/CST5+ fibroblasts were critical for homeostasis. Pro-inflammatory endothelial subclusters (IGHG1+/CXCL13+) expanded, while anti-inflammatory subclusters (SERPINA5+/SERPINA3+) diminished, may lead to vascular-immune imbalance. Upregulation of immunoglobulin genes and downregulation of MBP disrupted neural function, while inflamed pulp showed increased B cells and macrophages, decreased T cells and monocytes. Inflammatory pathways (PI3K, EGFR, TGFβ, MAPK, Oestrogen, NF-κB) were upregulated, with enhanced TGFβ signalling in endothelial cells. Intercellular interaction analysis showed altered APP-CD74 signalling in endothelial-macrophage interactions and disrupted CXCL14-mediated communication between immune and endothelial cells.For the first time, we have identified nine cell populations in dental pulp with their spatial localization and intercellular crosstalk using spatial transcriptomic sequencing technology, and mapped the inflammatory landscape of dental pulp. Cellular remodelling-driven by APP suppression, CXCL14 deficiency and TGFβ activation-is a central mechanism in pulpitis progression. These findings provide a preliminary spatial transcriptomic foundation that may inform the development of targeted strategies for vital pulp therapy.© 2026 British Endodontic Society. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
This study investigates the anti-tumor mechanisms of clitocine, a natural compound, in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), with a focus on its role in modulating the immune microenvironment via C-C motif chemokine receptor like 2 (CCRL2). The anti-cancer effects of clitocine were assessed in vitro using TNBC cell lines (MDA-MB-231 and MDA-MB-468) through functional assays, flow cytometry, and immunoblotting. RNA sequencing was performed to identified clitocine-induced transcriptional changes. The subcutaneous 4T1 xenograft models in BALB/c mice were used for in vivo validation. Additionally, mass cytometry (CyTOF) profiled tumor immune infiltration in tumor tissues, and the role of CCRL2 in modulating the tumor immune microenvironment and inflammatory pathways was investigated through database mining (TCGA) and gain/loss-of-function experiments.Clitocine potently inhibits TNBC cell proliferation, metastasis, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), while inducing mitochondrial apoptosis. It alters cancer-related gene expression (upregulating CCRL2), suppresses PI3K-AKT, NFκB, and ERK pathways, and exhibits potent antitumor activity in vivo without systemic toxicity. Mechanistically, clitocine remodels the tumor immune microenvironment by reducing neutrophil infiltration and suppressing neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) formation, effects mediated through the CCRL2/chemerin axis. Furthermore, CCRL2 is identified as a tumor suppressor, with low expression in TNBC patients correlating with poor survival. Credibly, CCRL2 knockdown in vitro and in vivo significantly abrogates the anti-tumor and immunomodulatory effects of clitocine.Our findings demonstrate that clitocine exerts potent anti-TNBC effects by upregulating CCRL2 expression, thereby activating the clitocine/CCRL2/chemerin axis. This axis disrupts critical oncogenic signaling pathways and reprograms the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment.© 2026. The Author(s).
To investigate the expression of C-C motif chemokine receptor-like 2 (CCRL2) on platelets in children with chronic primary immune thrombocytopenia(ITP), and its effect on platelet function.11 chronic ITP patients who were diagnosed at the Department of Hematology of Children's Hospital of Soochow University from April 2023 to September 2024, and 12 control cases were enrolled in this study. Both the expression of CCRL2 on platelets was measured, and the effects of Ccrl2 deletion on platelet production and function were evaluated.Deletion of Ccrl2 did not affect platelet counts and megakaryopoiesis, but significantly impaired the maximum aggregation rate, P-selectin expression, and adhesive ability to collagen I of platelets. In addition, the levels of CCRL2 and CD36 on platelets in children with chronic ITP were significantly decreased. However, the absolute number of neutrophils and the concentrations of Proprotein Convertase Subtilisin/Kexin Type 9 (PCSK9) and Defensin Alpha 1(DEFA1) were significantly increased.The weakened platelet function in children with chronic ITP may be related to the decreased CCRL2 expression.
Patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS)/acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with high-risk features including TP53 mutations have poor outcomes due to lack of effective therapies. The atypical chemokine surface receptor C-C motif chemokine receptor-like 2 (CCRL2) is overexpressed in MDS and secondary AML (sAML) compared to healthy hematopoietic cells and we recently found that TP53-mutated MDS/AML and AML with erythroid features express the highest levels of this receptor across MDS/AML subtypes. To illustrate the therapeutic potential of CCRL2 as a therapeutic target, we developed an anti-CCRL2 antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) by conjugating an anti-CCRL2 antibody with the cytotoxic drug pyrrolobenzodiazepine (PBD), which causes DNA double-strand breaks leading to cancer cell death. The anti-CCRL2 ADC demonstrated strong CCRL2-selective cytotoxicity against cell lines derived from MDS/AML patients with TP53 mutations and erythroid features, surpassing the cytotoxic effects observed with gemtuzumab and PBD-conjugated anti-CD33 and anti-CD123 ADCs. It also induced apoptosis and suppressed the clonogenicity of primary MDS/AML bone marrow samples without affecting the survival, differentiation and clonogenicity of healthy hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. This agent also suppressed the leukemic growth of TP53-mutated MDS/AML cell line xenografts, improving mice survival and decreasing the leukemic burden in patient-derived TP53-mutated MDS/AML xenografts. In conclusion, our study introduces CCRL2 as a potential new therapeutic target in high-risk MDS/AML including TP53-mutated subsets.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
This study aims to investigate the pathogenic hallmarks in various subtypes of idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (IIM) using single-cell transcriptomic approaches.Single-cell RNA sequencing analysis was conducted on affected skeletal muscle and peripheral blood mononuclear cells from healthy controls (n = 5) and patients with four different IIM subtypes (anti-Mi2/MDA5/NXP2 dermatomyositis [DM] and anti-HMGCR immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy [IMNM]; for each subtype, n = 3-5). Immunohistochemistry and cell cultures were performed to confirm key alterations revealed by the single-cell analysis.Among the 12 cell types, a reduction in type IIa/IIx myofiber cells was observed across more inflammatory IIM subtypes. Type I interferon (IFN-I) signaling was selectively hyperactivated in DM, whereas it is not obvious in IMNM. Expression of the transcription factor MEF2C appears to be reduced and associated with delayed myofiber genesis and altered muscle function. Developmental trajectory analysis suggested that two clusters of muscle stem and progenitor cells, MuSCs1 and Myoblasts1, were associated with disruptions in muscle regeneration in IIM, with IFN-I indicated in this aberrant differentiation process. Among immune cells, M1-like macrophages were suggested to interact with muscle cells via tumor necrosis factor signaling, leading to muscle inflammation. Furthermore, CXCL10+ fibroblasts are likely to recruit the M1-like macrophages through the CCL19-CCR7/CCRL2 axis. Moreover, we found that peripheral CD14+ monocytes exhibit high IFN activity and polarize into the M1-like phenotype after infiltration into skeletal muscle.The study provides valuable single-cell transcriptomic resources for describing pathologic cell atlas across IIM subtypes. We highlighted not only common changes in IIM (ie, expression of MEF2C and IFN-I) but also outlined distinct characteristics among the four subtypes of IIM.© 2026 American College of Rheumatology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41907444 is a review article
East Asians can be more susceptible to heavy alcohol consumption than others, due to genetic variations. In addition, alcohol drinking has been suspected as a cause of type 2 diabetes (T2D). To clarify the integrated toxic mechanisms of alcohol on T2D in East Asians, we performed epigenome-wide association studies using methylation profiling arrays among four groups of South Korean men (N = 80): drinking (DK), diabetic (DM), both drinking and diabetic (DK + DM), and non-drinking and non-diabetic controls (Con). We screened hypermethylated or hypomethylated sites in both DK and DM, compared to Con, and found 15 more and 10 fewer methylated sites in DK + DM than in DK or DM among the screened sites. Furthermore, we confirmed the involvement of SLC8A1, IGFBP7, ZBED3, etc., in alcohol-related diseases and T2D and observed that these epigenetic sites were related to the negative regulation of chemokines, response to hexose, transport, glucose, regulation of cell communication, response to insulin, sodium ion transmembrane transport, and sodium ion transport. MUL1, GPLD1, ZBED3, and SLC8A1 showed multiple associations with these pathways. Finally, we found that some of the 25 epigenetic sites, including CCRL2 for inflammation, ACTG1 for cell shape, and NDUFB9 for oxidoreduction, were hubs of the STRING network. In conclusion, our findings suggest that alcohol-induced T2D development involves two interconnected pathophysiological mechanisms, mitochondrial dysfunction and errors in cell communication and ion transport that contribute to pancreatic β-cell failure.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
A woman in her mid-50s presented with an uncomfortable pulling sensation in the right neck that worsened with movement. This was diagnosed as cervical dystonia and treated symptomatically for several years through trials of botulinum toxin. As the years progressed, her symptoms worsened and evolved with the patient eventually experiencing debilitating ataxia requiring use of a wheelchair for mobility, severe dysphagia requiring the use of a feeding tube for nutrition and dysarthria requiring the need of a family member for translation. Through genetic testing, the patient was diagnosed with spinocerebellar ataxia-CACNA1A (SCA-CACNA1A, previously SCA6). The patient had an unusual presentation of the syndrome with dystonia having been the initial symptom, resulting in the patient failing to receive diagnostic clarification of her symptoms until 10 years after the onset of symptoms. Clinicians should consider SCA-CACNA1A in their differential diagnoses if a patient presents with dystonia of unknown aetiology.© BMJ Publishing Group Limited 2026. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Prenatal alcohol exposure (PAE) can result in fetal alcohol spectrum disorder (FASD), a permanent, heterogeneous condition characterized by severe neurodevelopmental impairments with or without microcephaly, characteristic facial dysmorphology, and congenital anomalies. Clinical and pre-clinical studies suggest that genetic factors, in the mother or fetus, influence the phenotypic outcomes following PAE. The objectives of this study were to evaluate the prevalence and types of DNA copy number variants (CNVs) in children (0-18 years) diagnosed with FASD and to identify genes known to be associated with neurodevelopmental disorders.Chromosomal microarray (CMA) was performed in children diagnosed with FASD in the NSW CICADA FASD Service-a state-wide multidisciplinary diagnostic clinic in Australia. We performed a retrospective chart review of 175 patients diagnosed with FASD between 2015 and 2022 to obtain data on medical and family history, phenotype, and genotype. All CMA results were reviewed by a clinical geneticist.A rare CNV was identified in 38 of 157 (24.2%) patients who had CMA testing and 40 unique CNVs were identified. In four patients, a neurodevelopmental susceptibility syndrome was identified including Xq28 microduplication syndrome, 16p12.2 microdeletion syndrome, 17q11.2 microduplication syndrome, and an atypical variant of 22q11.2 deletion syndrome. Two children had incidental pathogenic variants. In 32 of 38 (84.2%) cases with a rare CNV, 34 variants of unknown significance (VOUS) were identified, of which 13 encoded a total of 14 genes associated with common neurodevelopmental disorders. Three variants of uncertain significance (VOUS) encoded different subunits of the voltage-dependent calcium channel complex protein (CACNB2, CACNA1A, CACNA2D3).These novel results suggest that approximately one in four children diagnosed with FASD may harbor a rare CNV, of which 85.0% are currently of uncertain clinical significance. Genetic testing can support the FASD diagnostic process and may reveal additional diagnoses or sources of genetic vulnerability to FASD.© 2026 The Author(s). Alcohol, Clinical and Experimental Research published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Research Society on Alcohol.
Childhood absence epilepsy (CAE) is a common genetic epilepsy with a frequently complex polygenic etiology, for which a genetically tractable animal model is lacking. Current anti-seizure medications fail to address the significant neurocognitive and social comorbidities of CAE, highlighting a critical unmet need for comprehensive therapies and a better understanding of the underlying mechanisms. To address this, we developed a digenic mouse model (Cacng2stargazer/+;Cacna1a+/-, hereafter DiGstg+Ca1A) that mimics human polygenicity. The double mutant mice exhibit both absence seizures and altered social novelty preference. We found that ethosuximide, a first-line anti-CAE medication targeting thalamic low-threshold T-type calcium currents, suppressed seizures in DiGstg+Ca1A mice but failed to rescue their social deficit. Similarly, deletion of Cacna1g, which encodes the T-type Ca2+ channel CaV3.1, prevented seizure generation but did not ameliorate the social deficit. These findings reveal a dissociation between the T-type current that mediates seizures and the mechanism underlying the social deficits. We further demonstrate that in Cacng2stargazer/+ mice, selective deletion of one copy of Cacna1a in stargazin-enriched parvalbumin (PV) interneurons induced absence seizures and impaired social behavior. Remarkably, chemogenetic activation of cortical and thalamic PV interneurons using DREADDs not only suppressed seizures but also rescued the impaired social behavior. Together, our results suggest that selective modulation of PV interneuron activity in polygenic absence epilepsy could serve as a promising therapeutic strategy to address both absence seizures, and the often treatment-resistant neurocognitive comorbidities observed in CAE.
Absence seizures, the most common childhood epilepsy, are characterized by brief involuntary lapses in consciousness and 3-Hz spike-wave EEG discharges (SWD). Despite extensive documentation of pathogenic thalamic remodeling, the cortical circuit abnormalities driving this highly stereotyped SWD remain elusive. Using two of the best characterized mouse models of absence epilepsy carrying point mutations in distinct genes altering pre and postsynaptic transmission, stargazer ( Cacng2 ) and tottering ( Cacna1a ), we show that a specific translaminar inhibitory circuit motif defined by layer 6 corticothalamic neurons (L6 CT) and a novel Tac1 +Pvalb interneuron subtype is selectively disrupted in both models. This early functional defect was accompanied by a secondary synaptic collapse of deep-layer somatostatin-expressing ( Sst ) interneurons that precisely coincides with the developmental onset of seizures. Crucially, we established the serial causality of these cascading defects by demonstrating that chemogenetic disruption of L6 CT-Tac1 +Pvalb circuit motif alone in wild-type mice is sufficient to induce both the secondary Sst interneuron collapse and contemporaneous emergence of SWDs. Together, these findings reveal a sequential translaminar synaptic failure or 'domino effect' wherein a primary defect triggers broader circuit adaptations permitting spike-wave hypersynchrony. Our results thus identify a convergent, causative cortical circuit pathology that is shared by genetically heterogeneous absence epilepsy models, highlighting a common functional target for therapeutic intervention.
Objectives To evaluate the causal association between sleep traits and epilepsy risk using Mendelian randomization, and to investigate the mechanism of a prioritized epilepsy-risk variant through gene-level enrichment analysis and functional validation. Methods Large-scale European GWAS datasets were analysed using multiple Mendelian randomization methods, including inverse variance weighted, MR-Egger and weighted median models, with heterogeneity and sensitivity analyses. Epilepsy-associated loci were mapped to protein-coding genes and flanking regions based on GRCh37 annotation, and primary and sensitivity-analysis gene sets were constructed from gene-level summary results for functional enrichment analysis. Guided by locus-level prioritization and the biological plausibility of CACNA1A, rs2228130 was selected for functional validation in CRISPR-ABE-edited human iPSC and knock-in mouse models to assess inhibitory synaptic transmission, sleep-related phenotypes and seizure susceptibility. Results Longer sleep duration was significantly associated with lower epilepsy risk (OR = 0.9937, p < 1 × 10⁻⁵), supporting a protective genetic causal association. The association between insomnia and epilepsy showed substantial heterogeneity (Q = 9352.91) and should be interpreted cautiously. Gene-level enrichment analysis indicated that epilepsy-associated candidate genes converged primarily on broad biological regulation, developmental processes and multicellular organismal processes, without stable dominant enrichment of GABAergic synapse or circadian rhythm pathways. Functional validation showed that rs2228130 did not affect neuronal differentiation but impaired inhibitory synaptic transmission, accompanied by abnormal network activity, altered sleep-related phenotypes and increased seizure susceptibility. Knock-in mice exhibited more frequent epileptiform discharges, reduced non-rapid eye movement sleep, decreased slow-wave activity and altered expression of rhythm-related genes. Pharmacological and sleep-related interventions partially ameliorated these abnormalities. Significance This study supports a protective genetic causal association between longer sleep duration and lower epilepsy risk, and suggests that epilepsy-related genetic risk converges primarily on broad functional networks. Within this framework, functional validation of CACNA1A rs2228130 identifies inhibitory synaptic dysfunction as a key mechanistic node linking genetic risk to sleep- and epilepsy-related phenotypes, providing a rationale for epilepsy prevention and treatment through sleep optimization and targeted modulation of critical downstream pathways. Plain Language Summary We used large-scale genetic data and experimental models to examine how sleep is related to epilepsy. Genetic evidence showed that longer sleep duration was associated with lower epilepsy risk. Although broad gene-level analyses did not identify a stable dominant signal for GABAergic synapse or circadian rhythm pathways, functional studies of the epilepsy-risk variant CACNA1A rs2228130 showed that it disrupted inhibitory synaptic transmission, altered sleep-related phenotypes and increased seizure susceptibility. In mouse models, drug treatment and sleep-related intervention partly improved these abnormalities, suggesting that sleep optimization and targeted downstream regulation may help reduce epilepsy risk.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Episodic ataxia type 2 (EA2) is characterized by episodes of vertigo and ataxia due to mutations in CACNA1A that encodes the α1A subunit of the P/Q-type voltage-gated calcium channel. This study aimed to identify neural correlates of cognitive dysfunction in EA2 by investigating brain atrophy in these patients and determining the relationships between regional brain volumes and intellectual dysfunction.We recruited 12 patients with EA2 (including 6 males; age=30.5±14.3 years, mean±standard deviation) in 3 university hospitals of South Korea from 2019 to 2023. Regional brain volumes were quantified using voxel-based morphometry and the brainstem-structures feature of FreeSurfer. The results were compared with those for healthy controls. The relationships between regional gray-matter volumes (GMVs) and cognitive function were assessed using voxel-wise multiple regression analyses within the general linear model framework.Brain volumetry revealed a significant decrease in cerebellar volumes, particularly in the vermis (lobules IV, V, and VIII), bilateral flocculi (lobule X), and brainstem. The Full-Scale Intelligence Quotient was positively correlated with the GMVs in the left parahippocampal gyrus, right caudate nucleus, and right cerebellar crus II; the Verbal Comprehension Index was correlated with the GMVs in the bilateral cerebellar crura I and II; and the Processing Speed Index was correlated with the GMV in the right parahippocampal gyrus.Volumetric analyses revealed brain atrophy in patients with EA2 that was correlated with the clinical features observed in this disorder. These findings may further expand the imaging spectrum of disorders associated with CACNA1A mutations, although the identified correlations need to be interpreted with caution.Copyright © 2026 Korean Neurological Association.
Expanded short tandem repeats contribute to a broad spectrum of neurodegenerative diseases, yet their roles in Parkinson's disease (PD) and parkinsonism remain incompletely characterized, especially across diverse ancestries. We analyzed short-read whole-genome (WGS) and clinical exome sequencing (CES) data from 38,365 individuals (28,861 WGS; 9,504 CES), encompassing 23,242 patients with PD, 4,729 patients with atypical parkinsonism and 10,394 healthy controls from 11 genetic ancestries. To determine carrier frequencies and characterize repeat structures across diverse ancestries, we genotyped 12 established pathogenic loci where normal, intermediate, and pathogenic alleles can be reliably differentiated using short-read sequencing data. Additionally, we conducted threshold-based associations to determine the minimum threshold associated with increased PD risk in 15,995 individuals (8,591 PD, 7,404 controls) of European ancestry. Pathogenic repeat expansions were detected in 62 patients (56 PD and 6 atypical parkinsonism) and 5 controls across seven loci (AR, ATXN1, ATXN2, ATXN3, CACNA1A, HTT and THAP11), spanning seven ancestries. Among these, ATXN2 expansions were the most frequently observed in PD and were present in African, East Asian, European and Middle Eastern ancestries. Additionally, intermediate ATXN2 repeat expansions exhibited a strong, length-dependent association with PD risk in the European population, with individuals with ≥32 repeats having a more than four-fold increased risk (odds ratio 4.25, 95% confidence interval 1.80-12.05). Overall, >92% of expanded alleles harbor CAA interruptions within the CAG tract. Pathogenic expansions at other loci, such as ATXN3 and THAP11, showed more ancestry-specific distributions. Clinically, individuals with pathogenic ATXN2 and ATXN3 expansions most often presented with typical PD features but frequently showed earlier disease onset and a strong family history of PD. This large-scale, multi-ancestry study comprehensively maps the genetic landscape of pathogenic and intermediate repeat expansions in PD. Our findings confirm a length- and structure-dependent risk association for ATXN2 with PD in the European population and highlight the pleiotropic effects of repeat expansions across the parkinsonian spectrum.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42377810 is a review article
Cervico-truncal dystonia has been described in association with infectious or post-infectious processes, including Mycoplasma pneumoniae. However, the contribution of underlying genetic susceptibility in such presentations remains poorly defined. We report the extended follow-up of a 32-year-old man who developed abrupt-onset cervico-truncal dystonia three weeks after a febrile upper respiratory tract infection associated with Mycoplasma pneumoniae. Given the atypical course and lack of sustained response to immunomodulatory therapies, whole-exome sequencing was performed, followed by application of a virtual multigene panel for movement disorders. Variant interpretation was conducted according to ACMG/AMP criteria, and segregation analysis was performed by Sanger sequencing. Despite initial improvement after intravenous immunoglobulins, the patient experienced recurrence and persistence of dystonic symptoms, with no evidence of ongoing inflammation. Genetic analysis identified a novel heterozygous frameshift variant in the CACNA1A gene, predicted to result in loss of function and classified as pathogenic. The variant was inherited from an asymptomatic mother, supporting incomplete penetrance. These findings suggest that the infectious event may have acted as a trigger, unmasking an underlying channelopathy. Dystonia is not a typical manifestation of CACNA1A-related disorders and has only rarely been reported; therefore, this case may support a possible expansion of the phenotypic spectrum rather than indicate a common CACNA1A-associated dystonia phenotype.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Integrated single-cell RNA sequencing, spectral flow cytometry, immune-receptor repertoire profiling, and plasma proteomics revealed coordinated peripheral immune remodeling during acute scrub typhus. Patients exhibited expansion of cytotoxic, clonally amplified CD8+ T cells with exhaustion-associated features, depletion and apoptosis of CD4+ T cells, B-cell contraction with enhanced plasmablast/plasma-cell differentiation, and inflammatory myeloid remodeling. CD14+CXCR6+ and CD14+GNLY+ myeloid-cell frequencies positively correlated with bacterial burden, defining prominent immune features of acute Orientia tsutsugamushi infection.© 2026 The Author(s). iMeta published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of iMeta Science.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42548611 is a review article
The precise mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of idiopathic inflammatory myopathy (IIM) remain undefined. However, there has been increasing recognition that tissue-resident memory cells (TRMs) play an important role in the pathogenesis of systemic autoimmune disease. In IIM, TRM-associated transcriptional signatures have been reported, but on a very limited basis. By using multimodal single-cell RNA sequencing analysis in our established murine model of histidyl-tRNA synthetase (HRS)-induced myositis, we identified a prominent population of CD4+ TRMs in inflamed skeletal muscle. Muscle CD4+ TRMs exhibited high expression of genes encoding Cd69, Cxcr6, Runx3, and Prdm1, alongside low expression of Klf2, Ccr7, Sell, S1pr1, and Tcf7 - a profile that is generally consistent with previous reports of TRM gene signature and that we validate through comparison to transcriptomic profiles of human muscle tissue. Detailed pathway analysis in our model indicates that muscle CD4+ TRMs contribute to innate immune regulatory pathways enriched for TNF and IFN-γ signaling. Furthermore, analysis of TCR clonotype distribution and CDR3 sequence similarity revealed pronounced clonal expansion of CD4+ TRMs relative to other T-cell subsets - a pattern that remained stable from 2 to 6 weeks post-immunization. Collectively, these results suggest a potential role for CD4+ TRMs in the pathogenesis of autoimmune myositis.
CD4 T cells are essential for protective immunity against Chlamydia in the female reproductive tract (FRT), yet the characteristics of protective mucosal effector CD4 T cells remain poorly defined. We previously identified the transcription factor BHLHE40 as a key regulator of polyfunctional effector CD4 T cell differentiation during Chlamydia infection. Here, we identify the chemokine receptor CXCR6 as a marker of these protective T cells. Following intravaginal Chlamydia muridarum infection, Bhlhe40-deficient mice exhibited reduced frequencies of CXCR6+ CD4 T cells that correlated with impaired bacterial control. CXCR6 expression on T cells was associated with loss of stem-like features and acquisition of an effector phenotype. Compared with CXCR6- cells, CXCR6+ CD4 T cells displayed enhanced proliferation and polyfunctionality by co-producing cytokines IFN-γ, IL-17A, and GM-CSF. Although CXCR6 was dispensable for CD4 T cell homing to the FRT, it promoted localization to the infected epithelium and the emerging memory lymphoid clusters. Importantly, depletion of CXCR6+ CD4 T cells reduced polyfunctional effectors and impaired bacterial clearance. Collectively, these findings identify CXCR6 as a marker of protective polyfunctional CD4 T cells and implicate CXCR6-dependent tissue positioning as a key component of effective mucosal immunity, highlighting CXCR6 as a potential biomarker for Chlamydia vaccine development.
Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is a dynamic process that contributes to breast cancer progression, metastasis, and therapy resistance. EMT also influences the tumor immune microenvironment, shaping immune cell infiltration and function. Although the immunological features of fully epithelial or fully mesenchymal tumor states have been characterized, the immune landscape associated with intermediate or partial EMT states remains poorly understood.To examine the relationship between EMT progression and immune cell composition and function, we established five single-cell-derived clonal populations from the triple-negative 4T1 mouse mammary tumor cell line, representing a spectrum of EMT phenotypes, and analyzed tumors derived from these clones using single-cell RNA sequencing.Tumors derived from these clones retained their relative EMT states in vivo, and EMT progression was associated with a graded reduction in tumor immunogenicity, accompanied by alterations in immune cell composition and function. Along the EMT spectrum, tumor cells exhibited progressive downregulation of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I and II gene expression, along with decreased infiltration of cytotoxic CD8+ T cells and reduced expression of key effector and trafficking genes (Gzmb, Ccr5, Cxcr6). B cell composition also shifted, with decreased frequencies of IgG1-producing plasma cells and an enrichment of regulatory-like B cells. Natural killer (NK) cells similarly demonstrated progressive functional suppression, marked by reduced expression of cytotoxic molecules and the downregulation of specific effector pathways.These findings reveal that EMT is associated with immune cell recruitment and function in a graded manner, providing a rationale for integrating EMT phenotyping into therapeutic strategies to overcome immune resistance in breast cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Type 1 regulatory (Tr1) T cells are a major source of IL-10-mediated immune regulation, yet their phenotypic definition and role in human disease remain incompletely understood. In this issue of the Journal of Clinical Investigation, Nideffer et al. provide insight into human Tr1 cells during pediatric Plasmodium falciparum (Pf) infection. The authors identified Tr1 cells as a major component of the malaria-specific CD4+ T cell response, producing both IL-10 and IFN-γ. They proposed that, in this context, Tr1 cells may be better identified by CD127 downregulation combined with CXCR6 expression than by other surface markers. Importantly, Tr1 cells exhibited suppressive function and were associated with reduced symptomatic disease but also with prolonged infection. Together, these findings refine current models of Tr1 cell identity and establish a more rigorous framework for marker validation using single-cell transcriptomics while highlighting the role of Tr1 cells in balancing immunity and immunopathology during infection.
BLIMP-1, a transcriptional repressor initially identified in plasma B-cell differentiation, also regulates CD8+ T cells and is differentially expressed between naïve and effector/memory CD4+ T cells. However, the functions of BLIMP-1 in human CD4+ regulatory T cells (Tregs) remain unclear. We found BLIMP-1 mRNA levels were low in naïve Tregs from thymus and cord blood, but high in effector/memory Tregs from adult peripheral blood. We confirmed the expression of BLIMP-1 mRNA by microarray of healthy T-cell populations and single-cell RNA-sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 spike-specific CD4+ T cells from convalescent COVID-19 patients. We found activated memory Tregs expressed the highest levels of BLIMP-1, FOXP3, and CD39 transcripts and protein. We show that CD39+ Tregs, regardless of in vitro or in vivo activation, had the highest levels of BLIMP-1 protein expression and significantly more IL-10 mRNA than CD39neg cells. The same result was found through reanalysis of public single cell RNA-sequencing data from lung (tissue and lymph node) SARS-CoV-2 spike-specific Tregs, where cells with high levels of BLIMP-1 mRNA had significantly more IL-10 mRNA than cells with low BLIMP-1 mRNA. Single-cell RNA-sequencing identified an extended transcriptomic profile of these CD39+ Tregs that includes the genes encoding HPGD, CTLA-4, HELIOS, TIGIT, CXCR6, CCR8, and GARP. Together, these data indicate that both circulating and lung resident effector memory Tregs maintain a conserved phenotype following stimulation by cognate antigen. Our data provide further insight into the functions and potential therapeutic targets of the large regulatory T-cell component of CD4+ T-cell responses to pathogens.© 2026 The Author(s). Immunology & Cell Biology published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of the Australian and New Zealand Society for Immunology, Inc.
Immunogenic cell death (ICD) is closely linked to thyroid cancer (THCA). We mined ICD-linked prognostic genes for survival predictors and unpacked their potential biology.Single-cell analysis was conducted to identify distinct cell types, and the scores of ICD-related genes (ICDRGs) were computed to identify key cell types. Furthermore, correlation, differential expression, and Kaplan-Meier survival studies were conducted to discover prognostic genes. By employing these genes alongside 101 combinations of 10 algorithms, we constructed a prognostic model and computed risk scores for THCA samples, analyzing their survival disparities. Control and THCA tissue samples were taken to assess the expression of prognostic genes via real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), resulting in the identification of a key gene. Subsequently, gene set enrichment analysis was executed on this key gene, and Western blot analysis was undertaken to evaluate the expression of relevant pathways.Single-cell and transcriptome analysis found CXCR6, ICOS, SLAMF7, CD80, and TNF as prognostic genes associated with ICD in THCA. Of the 101 combinations evaluated, the StepCox[both] + Random Survival Forest (RSF) model was selected as the prognostic model owing to its superior C-index. This model accurately forecasted survival outcomes for THCA samples. Expression study demonstrated a notable decrease of CXCR6 in THCA samples, consistent with bioinformatics analysis and it was designated as the key gene. Functional analysis revealed an enrichment of the inflammatory response, accompanied by reduced levels of its principal targets (Gαi) and downstream pathways (Src and PI3K-AKT) in THCA samples.This study found five prognostic genes, with CXCR6 associated with Gαi, Src, and PI3K-AKT pathways in the modulation of THCA, indicating the essential function of CXCR6 in THCA.© 2026. The Author(s).
The role of CD8+ T cells in Crohn's disease (CD) pathogenesis remains incompletely understood. This study aimed to characterize CD8+ T cells in CD and elucidate their potential contribution to intestinal inflammation. T cells from blood and intestinal tissues of 15 patients with CD were analyzed using single-cell RNA and T cell receptor sequencing. Spatial transcriptomics was conducted on inflamed intestinal tissues from two patients. Analysis of 41,699 CD8+ T cells identified distinct subsets characterized by differential granzyme expression: granzyme B (GZMB+) CD8+ T cells, predominantly in blood with high cytotoxic potential, and granzyme K (GZMK+) CD8+ T cells, enriched in intestinal tissue with lower cytotoxic potential. In the small intestine, GZMK+CD8+ T cells displayed enhanced tissue residency signatures (for example, CXCR6) and downregulated egress-related genes (S1PR1and S1PR5). GZMK+CD8+ T cells displayed robust interactions with myeloid cells via the CXCR3-CXCL9/10 axis, coupled with notable colocalization in the small intestine. Pharmacological inhibition of GZMK alleviated intestinal inflammation and tissue damage in a murine model of intestinal injury, supporting its role in modulating inflammatory responses. Together, these findings highlight GZMK as a potential modulator of intestinal inflammation and a candidate for further therapeutic investigation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Antiretroviral therapy (ART) reduces human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) replication to undetectable levels but does not eliminate HIV-1 reservoirs, which persist in memory CD4+ T-cells of various antigenic specificities. Hepatitis C virus (HCV) coinfection is associated with an increase in HIV-DNA burden, but whether HCV-specific CD4+ T-cells are susceptible to HIV-1 infection and harbour replication-competent HIV reservoirs upon HCV resolution is unknown.In this cross-sectional study, we examined the impact of HCV infection on CD4+ T-cell susceptibility to HIV-1 infection in vitro and reservoir persistence during ART in subjects with chronic HCV infection and uninfected controls (n = 20/group) and longitudinally in one ART-treated HCV+HIV+ individual who spontaneously resolved multiple episodes of HCV infection.Memory CD4+ T-cells from subjects with chronic HCV exhibited superior permissiveness to productive HIV-1 infection in vitro (p = 0.03) compared to uninfected. This was proportional to plasma HCV-RNA levels (p = 0.046; r = 0.491). HCV-specific CD4+ T-cells distinguished from other antigenic specificities (e.g., Cytomegalovirus) by a CCR5+ (HIV-1 co-receptor), CXCR6+ (liver-homing marker) and CCR6+ (Th17 marker) phenotype and supported productive HIV-1 infection in vitro. In the HCV+ HIV+ subject, HCV-specific CD4+ T-cells carried replication-competent reservoir during acute HCV reinfection, with integrated HIV-DNA persisting in these cells upon HCV clearance.We provide evidence that HCV-specific CD4+ T-cells are targets of integrative HIV-1 infection and carry proviruses that persist during ART despite HCV resolution.Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR) (PJT-173467, PJT-153052, PJT-178127, PJT-195736, HB2-164064, BR4-197730, MOP135260, FDN-143270, CTN222 and NHC142832), the National Institutes of Health (NIH) (U19AI159819), and Fonds de recherche du Québec-Santé (FRQS)-Réseau SIDA/maladies infectieuses.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Free fatty acid receptor (FFAR)-mediated signaling plays a critical role in cancer pathogenesis. Within the tumor microenvironment (TME), stromal cells support cancer cell functions under hypoxic conditions, thereby promoting malignant progression. This study investigated whether FFAR1 contributes to stromal cell-induced malignancy in cancer cells under hypoxic conditions (1% O2), using highly invasive A549-M8 cells derived from lung cancer A549 cells. A549-M8 cells exhibit approximately eightfold higher invasiveness than A549 cells. Under 1% O2, FFAR1 expression was upregulated in A549-M8 cells but downregulated in A549 cells. A549-M8 cell invasion was markedly promoted by culturing at 1% O2, whereas A549 cell invasion decreased. TUG-770 (FFAR1 agonist) stimulated A549-M8 cell invasion, whereas GW1100 (FFAR1 antagonist) suppressed it. In contrast, A549-M8 cell invasion was inhibited by TUG-891 (FFAR4 agonist). Co-culture with mouse-derived endothelial F2 cells, which lack Ffar1 expression, further stimulated A549-M8 cell movement and motility relative to A549 cells. Under hypoxic co-culture conditions, A549-M8 cells exhibited significantly increased invasion, which was associated with elevated FFAR1 expression. These results suggest that FFAR1-mediated signaling is a key driver of tumor progression in highly invasive lung cancer cells under hypoxic conditions, with stromal cell interactions promoting FFAR1 induction and enhancing malignancy, whereas FFAR4 activation exerts a suppressive effect on invasive activity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Free Fatty Acid Receptor-1 (FFAR1) agonists are promising candidates for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus due to their glucose-lowering ability. Previously, we have shown that a benzyloxyphenylpropanoic acid derivative QS-619 (5d) containing a (-)-borneol residue acts as an effective FFAR1 agonist and exerts a hypoglycemic effect in mice. To establish the initial structure-activity relationships (SAR) for this chemotype, with a particular focus on the critical role of the terpene fragment's stereochemistry, we synthesized a series of its structural analogues with variations in the configuration of stereocenters and the position of substituents in the aromatic rings. The effect of borneol stereochemistry on hypoglycemic activity was studied. The cytotoxicity of the synthesized compounds was evaluated on HepG2 and HEK293T cell lines. The hypoglycemic activity of these compounds was assessed in an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) in mice at doses of 15 mg/kg and 30 mg/kg. The most potent hypoglycemic agent identified was compound 5e which bears a (+)-bornyl moiety. It demonstrated a strong effect at both doses, showed no cytotoxicity (CC₅₀ >100 µM), but exhibited acute toxicity at a dose of 1000 mg/kg. Compounds 5f and 5g, containing (-)- and (+)-isobornyl moieties, respectively, showed a less pronounced hypoglycemic effect compared to the bornyl derivatives 5d and 5e. The cyclohexyl derivative 5h was active only at the 30 mg/kg dose. Furthermore, co-administration of an FFAR1 antagonist was found to suppress the hypoglycemic activity of the studied compounds in the OGTT, supporting an FFAR1-mediated mechanism of action.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Beyond their role in chemosensory perception, taste receptors function as metabolic regulators extra-orally. While decreased taste receptor expression in gustatory tissue is linked to obesity-associated inflammation, we tested the hypothesis that taste receptor-inflammation interactions extend to extra-oral contexts.Obesity-associated metabolic syndrome-like phenotype was induced in female C57BL/6 mice by administration of a cafeteria diet for 18 weeks. The controls consumed a standard diet. Gene-expression levels of Tas1r2, Tas1r3, CD36, Ffar1, GPR84 and Ffar4 were analyzed in circumvallate papillae, lower jejunum, stomach and spleen using RT-qPCR. The number and area of fungiform papillae were assessed on the anterior tongue. Correlation network connectivity for taste receptor expression and fungiform papillae markers with inflammatory and cardiometabolic risk markers was calculated tissue-specifically.The cafeteria diet induced obesity, metabolic dysfunction, and systemic inflammation. Additionally, number and area of fungiform papillae were reduced, and Tas1r2, CD36, Ffar1 and GPR84 were downregulated in circumvallate papillae, whereas in jejunum only CD36, Ffar1, and GPR84 were downregulated following cafeteria diet. Gustatory sweet and fatty acid receptor expression correlated with dietary intake patterns. Exploratory network analysis indicated tissue-specific correlation patterns, with taste receptor-inflammation crosstalk predominantly appearing orally. In contrast, extra-oral sweet and fatty acid receptor expression showed weaker or absent correlations with systemic inflammatory markers under the conditions tested.Copyright © 2026 Kimmeswenger, Feješ, Somoza, Šebeková and Lieder.
Metabolic disorders require therapeutic strategies targeting complementary pathways beyond current incretin-based therapies. Free fatty acid receptors GPR40 (FFAR1) and GPR120 (FFAR4) regulate insulin and incretin secretion as well as lipid metabolism, supporting the development of dual agonists. Here, we characterized three novel compounds (DFL23914, DFL23915 and DFL24102) derived from a previously validated scaffold, combining in vitro pharmacology with in vivo functional analyses. All compounds exhibited low-micromolar agonist activity at human GPR40 and GPR120, activating both Ca²⁺-dependent and β-arrestin signaling pathways, with DFL24102 showing the most balanced dual-agonist profile. In Drosophila models of diet-induced metabolic dysfunction, chronic administration significantly improved locomotor performance, reduced body weight gain, and normalized hyperglycemia and triglyceride accumulation in both adult and larval stages, without affecting survival. In vitro assays demonstrated the significant stimulation of glucagon-like peptide-1 secretion by DFL23914, DFL23915, and DFL24102 as well as the absence of hepatotoxicity, while cells permeability and mouse pharmacokinetics revealed minimal systemic exposure, supporting a gut-restricted mechanism of action. Consistently, oral administration in mice improved glucose tolerance in an oral glucose tolerance test, with significant reductions in glycemic excursions, particularly for DFL23915 and DFL24102. Overall, these findings indicate that dual GPR40/GPR120 agonists of this chemical series exert robust metabolic benefits through coordinated receptor activation and local intestinal activity. This study further supports dual FFAR targeting as a promising pharmacological approach and identifies leading candidates for the development of innovative therapies for metabolic disorders.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
G-protein coupled receptor 40 (GPR40), also termed free fatty acid receptor 1 (FFAR1) is a promising molecular target for treating chronic metabolic and inflammatory diseases. Despite the antiasthmatic benefit of GPR40 agonists such as omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids, it remains unclear whether GPR40 activation improves allergic asthmatic outcomes. The present study investigated the ameliorative effect of GPR40 activation on IL-13-induced allergic inflammation in human bronchial epithelial 16HBE14o-cells and in the ovalbumin-induced asthmatic murine model. The increasing concentration of GPR40 agonists GW9508 and TAK875, markedly mitigated IL-13-induced STAT6 phosphorylation and MUC5AC hypersecretion, suggesting mitigated type 2 inflammation in 16HBE14o-cells. The selective GPR40 antagonists DC260126 and GW1100 both strikingly abolished the anti-inflammatory effect of GW9508. In the asthmatic mouse model, intraperitoneal administration of GW9508 (10 mg/kg) alleviated ovalbumin-induced mucus hypersecretion and airway inflammation, with a reduction in STAT6 phosphorylation in lung tissue. Our findings suggest that GPR40 activation represents a novel therapeutic strategy for STAT6-mediated or type-2-inflammation mediated diseases such as allergic asthma.© 2026 The Authors.
Nickel nanoparticles (Nano-Ni) are widely utilized in industrial and biomedical applications due to their unique physicochemical properties. However, their expanded usage increases risks of occupational and environmental exposure. In this study, we established a mouse exposure model via single intratracheal instillation of Nano-Ni and analyzed the perturbation characteristics of lung tissue metabolic profiles using untargeted metabolomics. Subsequently, the biological function of the key metabolite 20-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (20-HETE) was explored in Nano-Ni-exposed lung epithelial cells to elucidate the underlying mechanisms of metabolic alterations in Nano-Ni-induced pulmonary fibrosis. Our results showed that exposure to Nano-Ni induced marked alveolar architecture destruction, interstitial thickening, and upregulated expression of fibrotic markers in mouse lung tissues. Metabolomics identified arachidonic acid metabolism as the most disrupted pathway, with 20-HETE exhibiting the most pronounced downregulation. In both BEAS-2B and A549 cell lines, exogenous 20-HETE supplementation significantly attenuated Nano-Ni-induced epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Furthermore, Nano-Ni exposure reduced mRNA and protein levels of free fatty acid receptor 1 (FFAR1) both in vivo and in vitro. Pretreatment with the FFAR1 agonist GW9508 mitigated Nano-Ni-induced EMT and the activation of NF-κB signaling pathway in both cell lines. Critically, FFAR1 inhibition largely abolished the suppressive effects of 20-HETE on EMT and NF-κB signaling. Altogether, our study suggests that 20-HETE may affect the EMT process in lung epithelial cells at least in part through regulating the FFAR1/NF-κB pathway, thereby potentially contributing to the process of Nano-Ni-induced lung fibrosis. These findings point to a possible role of specific metabolites in Nano-Ni-induced pulmonary fibrosis and may provide novel mechanistic insights into the inhalation toxicity of nanomaterials.
Over 800 million people globally suffer from chronic kidney disease (CKD). Maternal obesity has emerged as a risk factor for CKD in offspring, but the mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, we use mouse models of maternal obesity to investigate macrophage involvement in offspring kidneys. Multi-omics analyses revealed that maternal obesity accelerates kidney disease in male offspring through dysregulated crosstalk between proximal tubules (PT) and macrophages. PT-derived 20-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (20-HETE) promotes mitochondrial hyperactivity and macrophage to myofibroblast transition (MMT) via Ffar1 in macrophages. Targeting 20-HETE or depleting Ffar1 in offspring of obese mothers markedly reduces kidney pathology. Hormone screening identified 3,3,5-Triiodo-L-thyronine (T3) as a factor that enhances Ffar1 expression in macrophages. Mechanistically, the T3 receptor (TRβ) binds to an enhancer we identify upstream of the gene, promoting Ffar1 transcription via the TRβ-P300-BRD4 regulatory axis. These findings highlight T3 and 20-HETE co-activated MMT as a central mechanism to kidney disease in offspring of obese mothers, offering potential therapeutic targets.© 2026. The Author(s).
Free fatty acid receptors (FFAR) are molecular sensors involved in the regulation of energy metabolism. Free fatty acid receptors are expressed in the bovine liver, although their biological functions are not fully understood. Our objectives were to study the expression of hepatic FFAR in periparturient dairy cows supplemented or not with a mixture of essential fatty acids (EFA) and CLA, and to investigate potential associations between FFAR and metabolic adaptation during the transition period. Multiparous Holstein cows received abomasal infusions of either coconut oil (control; n = 8) or a mixture of EFA and CLA (EFACLA; n = 8) from -9 to 9 wk relative to parturition. Liver samples were collected at -3, 0, 4, and 9 wk relative to parturition. We quantified the liver expression of FFAR (FFAR1-4 and GPR84) and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor delta (PPARD) by real-time quantitative PCR. Repeated-measurement correlations and multilevel multiple factor analysis (MFA) were used to investigate the links between FFAR and other metabolic parameters (i.e., energy balance, blood metabolic indicators, liver proteomics, and liver gene expression). All targeted FFAR were expressed in the liver, except for FFAR4. We found no effects of EFACLA or interactions with time for the expressed FFAR. FFAR1, FFAR2, and GPR84 expression decreased from -3 to 9 wk relative to parturition, whereas FFAR3 remained constant from -3 to 4 wk, then decreased at 9 wk postpartum. We observed strong correlations between FFAR, and moderate correlations between FFAR and PPARD. Multivariate (MFA) and univariate (correlation) analyses revealed weak links between FFAR liver expression and other metabolic parameters (e.g., IGFBP3 liver expression and plasma IGFBP-2). Downregulation of FFAR in the liver from pre- to postpartum may prevent receptors hyperactivation during periods of high free fatty acid concentrations. Physiological relevance and individual contributions of FFAR to the hepatic metabolism require further investigation.© 2025.
Cold exposure induces beige adipogenesis in white adipose tissue, enhancing thermogenesis and energy expenditure. While gut microbiota-derived metabolites influence host metabolism, their role in thermogenic adaptation remains poorly defined. Here, we identify P. copri as a key microbial mediator of cold-induced adipose remodeling. Cold exposure expands P. copri in the colon, which produces 3-phenylpropionic acid (3-PPA), a metabolite that promotes beige adipocyte formation and increases energy expenditure. Mechanistically, 3-PPA signals through free fatty acid receptor 1 in M2-like macrophages, inducing chemokine C-X-C motif chemokine 13 (CXCL13) secretion, which recruits T follicular helper cells to facilitate beige adipogenesis. Lineage-tracing analyses show that adipocyte progenitor cells generate new beige adipocytes in response to 3-PPA. Moreover, 3-PPA supplementation counteracts high-fat diet-induced obesity in mice and promotes thermogenesis in mouse, pig, and human adipose progenitor cells. These findings define a microbiota-immune-adipose progenitor axis regulating cold adaptation and highlight microbial metabolites as potential metabolic therapies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Intestinal epithelial cell lines have been widely used in the field of biomedical and livestock research, and recently, the use of organoid systems has been attempted. However, they have several limitations as an in vitro platform in particularly in nutrition-related studies. Thus, this study aimed to compare the existing in vitro platform (IPEC-J2 cell line) with a three-dimension (3D) organoid model, and to understand the nutritional phenomena occurring in the intestinal lumen through the establishment and characterization of a two-dimension (2D) organoid model. By comparing the IPEC-J2 cell line and 3D intestinal organoids, we found differences in intestinal epithelial cell types, including nutrient-related enteroendocrine cells and enterocytes. 3D organoids have most of gut epithelial cell types, but IPEC-J2 did not. We further established a 2D organoid model with an exposed apical membrane and compared it with a 3D organoid model. The established 2D organoids had higher expression of enteroendocrine cells and enterocyte marker genes, and most genes were related to nutritional properties (nutrient transporters, hormones, and digestive enzymes). Fatty acids, one of the nutrients, were added to the two organoid models for comparison. Fluorescence image analysis confirmed that more fatty acids were absorbed by 2D organoids. Treatment with a long-chain fatty acid mixture increased the expression of fatty acid receptor (FFAR1 and FFAR4) and hormone (GCG, CCK, and PYY) genes in 2D organoids but not in 3D organoids, leading to the activation of metabolic responses. The more facilitated metabolic process was observed in 2D organoids by increased mitochondria activity and ATP production. Our findings emphasize that pig intestinal organoid systems, particularly 2D organoid model, is better in vitro platform, particularly in nutrition-related studies. Compared with other in vitro platforms, 2D organoids can be used for studying intestinal epithelial cell-nutrient interactions structurally and characteristically. Our study provides a basis for utilizing a pig 2D intestinal organoid model as a potentially advanced in vitro system for intestinal epithelial cell-based nutritional research in domestic animals.© Copyright 2026 Korean Society of Animal Science and Technology.
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and acute myeloid leukemias (AML) harboring TP53 mutations are defined by extreme genomic instability, complex karyotypes (CK), and poor prognosis. While large-scale chromosomal imbalances are common in CK-MDS/AML, the synergy between focal amplifications of signaling drivers and the disruption of transcriptional regulators remains poorly elucidated.We performed a comprehensive clinical, cytogenetic (GTG-banding, M-FISH, M-Band), and molecular (targeted FISH, NGS) analysis of seven patients with MDS and AML characterized by a recurrent and distinct genomic signature.All cases exhibited highly complex karyotypes on a TP53-mutated background. We identified high-level focal amplifications of EPOR (19p13.2) and JAK2 (9p24.1), predominantly manifesting as homogeneously staining regions (HSRs) or complex "sandwich-like" derivative chromosomes. Notably, these signaling alterations consistently co-occurred with monoallelic deletions of the TCF3 (E2A) tumor suppressor (19p13.3) and copy number gains of the ERG transcription factor (21q22). Detailed structural analysis indicates that TCF3 loss likely arises as a structural consequence of chromosome 19 rearrangements driving EPOR amplification. Based on this data, we propose a conceptual model of leukemogenesis where EPOR/JAK2 co-amplification potentially drives constitutive JAK2/STAT5 signaling, while concurrent ERG gain and TCF3 haploinsufficiency contribute to maturation delay. TP53 deficiency appears to be the primary permissive factor enabling the stabilization of these massive structural rearrangements.Our findings outline a recurrent and biologically coherent genomic pattern within the spectrum of TP53-mutated myeloid neoplasms, demonstrating significant phenotypic overlap with erythroid leukemia features in a subset of cases. Given the small cohort size, these findings are hypothesis-generating. However, this convergence of predicted JAK2/STAT5 pathway hyperactivation and transcriptional disinhibition points to a theoretical therapeutic vulnerability that warrants prospective validation in larger collaborative studies.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Vocal fold fibrosis (VFF), characterized by excessive extracellular matrix deposition, leads to permanent voice impairment, with current therapies often failing to restore vocal function. Current treatments are limited by suboptimal efficacy and high recurrence rates. Dysregulated energy metabolism is emerging as a critical driver of fibrosis. AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), a central cellular energy sensor, exerts broad antifibrotic effects in multiple organs, yet the therapeutic potential of novel AMPK activators, such as Aldometanib, in VFF remains to be fully characterized. This study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic potential and mechanisms of Aldometanib, a novel AMPK activator, in vocal fold fibrosis.A controlled animal study was conducted using an SD rat vocal fold injury model. Animals were randomly allocated into four groups: control, injury, and injury treated with low or high doses of Aldometanib. Primary vocal fold fibroblasts were isolated and cultured, then stimulated with TGF-β1 to induce fibroblast activation, followed by treatment with different concentrations of the AMPK activator Aldometanib. Key outcome measures included histopathological analysis of collagen deposition (Alcian blue and EVG staining), protein and gene expression levels of fibrotic markers (α-SMA, COL1A1, FN1), and components of the JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway (p-AMPK, p-JAK2, p-STAT3).In vivo, compared with the injury only group, Aldometanib treatment significantly improved the histological architecture of the vocal fold lamina propria. These changes were accompanied by increased p-AMPK levels and decreased expression of p-JAK2, p-STAT3, α-SMA, COL1A1, and FN1. In vitro, Aldometanib attenuated TGF-β1-induced fibroblast activation, and these effects were effectively reversed by co-treatment with the AMPK inhibitor DOX, confirming AMPK pathway dependency.Pharmacological activation of AMPK with Aldometanib effectively alleviates vocal fold fibrosis by inhibiting the JAK2/STAT3 signaling axis. This study identifies AMPK as a promising novel therapeutic target for vocal fold fibrosis, supporting future development of more potent or specific AMPK activators and localized delivery systems for clinical translation.Copyright © 2026 The Voice Foundation. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The Philadelphia chromosome-negative myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs) are a group of haematological malignancies triggered by a driver mutation, most commonly the JAK2 V617F mutation, which is acquired in a haematopoietic stem cell. The diseases are characterised by an overproduction of myeloid cells and may result in severe complications such as thrombosis, myelofibrotic transition, and potentially progression to acute myeloid leukaemia. Treatment with interferon-α (IFN-α) can potentially deplete the disease-driving malignant stem cell population, thereby leading to long-term remission. We extend a mechanistic compartmental differential equation model of MPN progression to account for the effects of IFN-α treatment. In agreement with experimental mouse studies, we assume that IFN-α acts through effects on malignant stem cell differentiation and malignant progenitor and precursor cell apoptosis. We use a hierarchical Bayesian inference procedure to infer the drug response parameters of the model based on measurements of the JAK2 V617F variant allele frequency (VAF) for N=56 patients from the Danish DALIAH study, both on the individual and the population level, with 14 patients left out for subsequent testing. The model estimates are found to agree with data. The drug response parameters are found to act synergistically on the reduction of JAK2 VAF, with the model being able to capture qualitatively different types of treatment responses. Using the inferred information about the population distribution of drug response parameters is found to improve predictions compared to predictions without prior knowledge on a testing cohort. Such predictions may aid clinical decision-making regarding IFN-α treatment in patients with MPNs.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Ropeginterferon alfa-2b, a novel monopegylated interferon with improved pharmacokinetics, has emerged as a promising cytoreductive agent for managing polycythemia vera (PV). Despite increasing adoption, evidence synthesis of its efficacy and safety compared to standard care remains limited. The manuscript aimed to evaluate the efficacy of ropeginterferon alfa-2b in comparison to standard treatment options, including hydroxyurea and phlebotomy, in achieving complete hematologic response, partial molecular response (PMR), and reducing JAK2V617F allele burden in patients with PV.A systematic search of 4 databases was conducted up to April 2025, following PRISMA 2020 guidelines. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing ropeginterferon alfa-2b with standard therapies in PV patients were included. Meta-analyses were performed using random-effects models to derive odds ratios for dichotomous outcomes and mean differences (MDs) for continuous outcomes. Sensitivity and subgroup analyses were conducted, and risk of bias was assessed using RoB 2.0.Three RCTs comprising 522 patients were analyzed. Ropeginterferon alfa-2b showed no statistically significant advantage overall or over hydroxyurea for complete hematological response (CHR), PMR, or JAK2 allele burden reduction. However, subgroup analyses revealed significant benefits over phlebotomy alone in all 3 outcomes: CHR (odds ratio [OR] 3.05; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.36-6.80; P = .007), PMR (OR 36.34; 95% CI: 2.11-625.93; P = .01), and allele burden reduction (MD -13.70; 95% CI: -19.24 to -8.16; P < .00001).Ropeginterferon alfa-2b demonstrates no statistically significant difference compared to hydroxyurea, but gives better outcomes over phlebotomy in short-term efficacy for PV management. Its favorable molecular and hematologic outcomes support its role as a disease-modifying therapy, particularly in low-risk patients. However, larger and longer-term trials are needed to confirm these benefits across broader populations.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Mitochondria activate immunity, but the role in cancer is unknown. Here, we report that transgenic expression of Parkin, a regulator of mitochondrial fitness, induces inflammation and interferon (IFN) gene signatures, suppresses prostate cancer formation and generates CD8+ and CD20+ intraprostatic immune aggregates. These had hallmarks of mature tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS), expressing markers of B cell maturation (CXCL13, CCL21), germinal center formation (BCL6, GL7), mature dendritic cells (MHC-II/CD208) and high endothelial venules (LYVE-1). Parkin TLS showed high Ig gene expression, recruitment of CXCR5+ follicular T helper cells and expansion of CD69+/KLRG1+ effector T cells. Conditioned medium from Parkin-positive cells expanded memory B and plasma cells, increased IgG1 production, and sustained B and T cell migration. Finally, conditional expression of Parkin induced TLS formation, upregulated Ig chains and inhibited prostate cancer growth, in vivo, whereas Parkin reconstitution in IFNAR1, CD8 or CD20 knockout mice had no effect. Therefore, mitochondrial immunity orchestrates antitumor responses, and TLS formation contributes to tumor suppression.
Polycythemia vera (PV) is a JAK2-associated clonal myeloproliferative neoplasm characterized by erythroid hyperplasia. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first reported case of acute hyper-viscosity encephalopathy as the initial manifestation of suspected PV in a resident of extreme high altitude-a diagnosis frequently mistaken for altitude-induced secondary polycythemia in this population.A 37-year-old Tibetan man, lifelong resident at 4,100 m, presented with acute encephalopathy characterized by altered consciousness, gait ataxia, and headache. Neurological examination confirmed higher cortical dysfunction. Laboratory studies showed marked erythrocytosis (hemoglobin 229 g/L, hematocrit 77.4%) with paradoxically suppressed serum erythropoietin (EPO, 1.2 mIU/mL). Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) revealed acute bilateral frontoparietal and centrum semiovale diffusion-restricted lesions. Neurological symptoms resolved rapidly after osmotic therapy for intracranial hypertension. These findings were consistent with suspected PV based on WHO diagnostic criteria.This case suggests that acute infection may trigger life-threatening hyper-viscosity syndrome in suspected PV at extreme altitudes. EPO assessment and JAK2 mutational analysis are recommended to be included in the diagnostic algorithm to distinguish malignant PV clones from compensatory polycythemia and to prevent catastrophic neurological outcomes in high-altitude residents.Copyright © 2026 Yao and Chen.
Obesity, a major health issue linked to metabolic disorders, is driven by multiple factors, including impaired leptin signaling, particularly in the Janus kinase 2 (JAK2)/Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) pathway. This study investigated the impact of aldehyde-containing food additives on leptin receptor activated signaling in cells. We examined the effects of 39 different aldehyde-containing compounds, commonly used in food additives, on leptin-induced STAT3 transcriptional activity through a reporter gene assay. Three aldehydes, i.e., 2-pyrrolecarboxaldehyde, o-anisaldehyde, and piperonal were found to reduce leptin-induced STAT3 transcriptional activity in a concentration-dependent manner without affecting cell viability. These additives did not alter conformational changes of the leptin receptor, STAT3 phosphorylation, or its nuclear translocation, nor did they induce endoplasmic reticulum stress. These additives likely affect a downstream step in leptin signaling, specifically transcriptional regulation by STAT3, without disrupting early receptor signaling events. These finding suggest that some aldehyde-based food additives may contribute to leptin resistance and potentially to the development of obesity.Copyright © 2026 Shibuya, Yoshida, Tsuge, Hamasaki, Kuriya, Nakagawa, Sugiyama, Miyamoto, Shimamoto, Jockers, Dam and Hosoi.
Shenqi Compound (SQC) is effective in treating type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Preliminary clinical observations suggest that it may also improve pancreatic fibrosis in T2DM patients with comorbid chronic pancreatitis (CP), which prompted this mechanistic study.This study aimed to reveal the multi-component, multi-target, and multi-pathway mechanism of SQC in pancreatic exocrine and endocrine diseases by integrating LC-MS/MS, network pharmacology, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulation, and in vivo validation.Active components and targets of SQC were screened using network pharmacology and LC-MS/MS. Molecular docking and dynamics simulation validated key component target binding. A mouse model of comorbid CP and T2DM was established by feeding a 60% high-fat diet for six weeks, combined with intraperitoneal injection of caerulein (50 μg/kg, six times daily, three days per week, for six weeks) followed by streptozotocin (50 mg/kg daily for five consecutive days). Pancreatic function, histopathology, and protein expression were assessed.Network pharmacology identified 145 active components acting on 242 targets, with IL-6, JAK2, and STAT3 as core targets. Quercetin, kaempferol, and luteolin showed good binding to these proteins. The luteolin JAK2 complex remained stable over 100 ns. In animal experiments, SQC improved body weight and food intake, lowered fasting blood glucose, and increased serum glucagon, insulin, lipase, amylase, and fecal elastase 1. SQC also reduced pancreatic IL-6 and TNF-α, alleviated pathological damage and fibrosis, downregulated gp130 and JAK2/STAT3 phosphorylation, and upregulated SOCS3.SQC treatment is associated with the suppression of the IL-6/JAK2/STAT3 pathway, accompanied by reduced inflammation, decreased fibrosis, and improvements in both exocrine and endocrine functions in model mice. These findings suggest that the formula potentially acts as a holistic regulator, though the direct causal relationship requires further verification through pathway blockade or genetic ablation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a global health challenge with limited efficacy of single-target therapies. Esculin and esculetin, the main coumarins of Cortex Fraxini, have been reported to exhibit anti-tumor activities in various cancer cell lines in preclinical studies. This study systematically elucidated the synergistic anti-CRC mechanisms of esculin and esculetin by integrating network pharmacology, bioinformatics, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and in vitro validation. Network pharmacology predicted 23 overlapping targets, with 10 core proteins significantly enriched in the PI3K-Akt and JAK2-STAT3 pathways, further supported by bioinformatics analysis. Molecular docking and 100-ns molecular dynamics simulations revealed that the esculin-esculetin complex exhibited stronger binding affinity and stable interaction with EGFR compared with each monomer. In vitro, the natural 5:1 combination synergistically inhibited HCT116 and HT29 cell proliferation, suppressed colony formation, migration, and invasion, downregulated the phosphorylation of PI3K, Akt, JAK2 and STAT3, reduced EGFR, TOP1 and CDK2 mRNA, decreased the Bcl-2/Bax ratio, and increased cleaved caspase-3 levels. Quantitative validation by EdU, TUNEL, and flow cytometry confirmed concentration-dependent inhibition of proliferation and induction of apoptosis. These findings demonstrate that esculin and esculetin co-target EGFR and simultaneously block downstream PI3K-Akt and JAK2-STAT3 dual pathways, providing a multi-component, multi-target, multi-pathway synergistic model for C. fraxini-based combination therapy against CRC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Understanding how the brain processes bodily signals requires mapping the circuits that transform interoceptive information into coordinated responses. Visceral signals converge in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), which coordinates appetite, breathing, cardiovascular reflexes, and digestion. The NTS contains many intermingled subpopulations of neurons, and deciphering their functions requires understanding their connections. Here, we used cell-type-specific tracing to test whether molecularly distinct NTS neurons exhibit unique connectivity patterns. First, we found that Lmx1b-expressing excitatory neurons provide output to a broad array of NTS target regions in both the brainstem and forebrain, while inhibitory neurons in this region project predominantly within the brainstem. Next, we found that several genetically defined excitatory subpopulations-catecholaminergic (Th), neuropeptidergic (Cck, Npff, or Pdyn), and aldosterone-sensitive (Hsd11b2)-exhibit unique output patterns across multiple targets. As examples, the ventrolateral medulla receives moderate Th, Cck, and Pdyn, light Npff, and no Hsd11b2 input. The outer rim of the external lateral parabrachial subnucleus receives concentrated Th, Cck, and Npff input, contrasting a more uniform Pdyn input and a lack of Hsd11b2 input. The subcommissural bed nucleus of the stria terminalis receives broad Th, light Cck, sparse Pdyn, and virtually no Npff input, contrasting the focal Hsd11b2 input to its fusiform subnucleus. These divergent patterns demonstrate that molecular identity predicts connectivity and define the organizational logic by which interoceptive signals are transformed into coordinated autonomic and behavioral responses.© 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Comparative Neurology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Distraction osteogenesis (DO) is a surgical technique used to repair skeletal defects by promoting bone and soft tissue regeneration. However, prolonged use of external fixators often causes complications such as infections and joint contractures. Neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) enhances osteoblast differentiation via bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) and Akt signaling and may also modulate the Wnt/β-catenin pathway. In this study, we investigated the role of NT-3 in bone regeneration during DO. A DO model was established in 9-week-old male ICR mice, in which tibiae were osteotomized and stabilized with external fixators under anesthesia. After a 5-day latency period, distraction was performed at 0.2 mm every 12 hours for 8 days. RNA was extracted at defined time points post-osteotomy for quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) analysis, and NT-3 was administered post-distraction. Bone regeneration was evaluated by radiographic, histological, and biomechanical analyses. The effects of NT-3 and Dickkopf-1 were further examined in ST2 bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells. NT-3 significantly enhanced bone formation, increased bone mineral density within the DO gap, and improved the mechanical stiffness of regenerated bone. Histological examination revealed earlier bone continuity and greater callus formation in the NT-3 group. Gene expression analysis demonstrated upregulation of Wnt/β-catenin pathway components, including Wnt10b, β-catenin, and low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 5 (LRP5). In ST2 cells, NT3 increased the expression of LRP5, LRP6, β-catenin, and Runx2, while cotreatment with Dickkopf1 abolished these effects. These findings suggest that NT-3 promotes bone regeneration during DO by activating the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway, highlighting its therapeutic potential to improve DO outcomes.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557142 is a review article
Diabetes mellitus (DM) is characterized by chronic metabolic stress that promotes oxidative damage, genomic instability, and premature cellular aging, with adipose tissue senescence being a pivotal contributor to metabolic dysfunction. Yet the impact on DNA damage repair (DDR) and telomere maintenance in adipose tissue remains poorly defined. This study investigated DDR capacity, telomere integrity, and the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) in adipose tissue and adipose-derived stromal cells (ADSCs) under diabetic conditions. Using an obese diabetic (ob/ob) mouse model, we confirmed whole-blood telomere shortening, significant adipose tissue hypertrophy, metabolic dysregulation, and elevated DNA damage, evidenced by increased γH2AX-positive staining. In vitro, ADSCs exposed to a diabetic microenvironment (AGEs and TNFα) exhibited increased reactive oxygen species and DNA damage without a corresponding activation of DDR pathways, as indicated by unchanged PARP1 levels and broad downregulation of key DNA repair genes, including sensors (ATM, ABL1, RAD17) and effectors across MMR, NER, HR, and NHEJ pathways. This impaired genomic surveillance was accompanied by premature cellular senescence and significant repression of genes involved in telomere protection (shelterin complex), telomerase activity, and telomere maintenance, together with marked telomere shortening following prolonged exposure. Furthermore, diabetic conditions increased the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines, chemokines, and growth factors. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that the diabetic microenvironment is associated with maladaptive DDR responses, telomere dysfunction, cellular senescence, and a pro-inflammatory secretory phenotype. This study highlights compromised genomic maintenance as a potential key mechanism underpinning adipose tissue dysfunction in DM and emphasizes the need for future investigations into the mechanisms underlying dysregulated DDR and telomere biology.© the author(s).
The rarer p190 (e1a2) transcript in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is associated with atypical presentations; yet, its biological basis remains poorly understood. Using a cohort of 60 patients including 42 chronic phase patients age-matched 1:1 with 42 e13a2/e14a2 patients in the chronic phase, we investigated the clinical, genomic, and clonal features of e1a2 BCR::ABL1 CML. We identified 60 e1a2 BCR::ABL1 CML patients showing distinctive hematologic features including lower leukocyte and platelet counts and higher monocytosis (12.3% vs. 2.0%, P < 0.001). Additional somatic mutations were detected in 37/42 (88%) e1a2 BCR::ABL1 cases compared with 7/42 (17%) e13a2/e14a2 BCR::ABL1 cases. The mutational spectrum was dominated by ASXL1 and TET2, and closely resembled CMML-like profiles. Genomic breakpoint sequences of 34 e1a2 BCR::ABL1 cases showed that BCR and ABL1 coordinates were similar to those observed in 394 B-ALL. Longitudinal mutational tracking revealed two distinct clonal architectures. In 71% of patients, mutations disappeared with molecular response, consistent with BCR::ABL1 as the founding event. In contrast, 29% of patients had mutations with stable VAFs, while BCR::ABL1 transcript levels decreased after treatment, indicating that the fusion had been acquired within a pre-existing mutated clone. Single-cell genotyping experiments confirmed these clonal architectures. These patients frequently developed cytopenias under tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy and half required red blood cell transfusions, reflecting persistence of the ancestral clone rather than BCR::ABL1-driven disease. These findings show that e1a2 BCR::ABL1 CML frequently arises within complex, premutated clonal backgrounds, providing a biological basis for its atypical presentation and heterogeneous treatment response.© 2026 The Author(s). HemaSphere published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of European Hematology Association.
Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is a rare hematologic malignancy in children, typically presenting with leukocytosis in the peripheral blood, and often accompanied by symptoms such as fever or splenomegaly. This report describes a rare pediatric case of CML that manifested solely as isolated thrombocytosis. Due to this atypical presentation, the patient was initially misdiagnosed with essential thrombocythemia (ET) and treated with hydroxyurea and aspirin, which yielded no clinical response. The diagnosis of CML was subsequently confirmed by detection of the BCR::ABL1 fusion gene. Upon confirmation, the patient was promptly initiated on imatinib therapy and achieved a complete cytogenetic response within 4 months. We also conducted a literature review of similar cases, discussing their prognosis and differential diagnosis with ET, and recommend early BCR::ABL1 fusion gene testing in all pediatric patients presenting with isolated thrombocytosis to ensure accurate diagnosis.© 2026 He and Fu.
Early achievement of deep remission improves patients' outcome in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) treatment, highlighting the need for predictive indicators before therapy initiation. This study aimed to investigate whether baseline hematologic profiles are associated with molecular response in CML. Using hierarchical clustering of complete blood count (CBC) data at diagnosis, patients were stratified into two clusters. Patients in Cluster 1 had higher BCR::ABL1IS mRNA levels at 3 and 6 months post-treatment and lower rates of major molecular response compared to cluster 2. Cluster 1 also showed increased granulocyte and immature white blood cell counts and decreased erythroid parameters. Flow cytometric analysis of bone marrow mononuclear cells revealed that cluster 1 had a significant increase in hematopoietic stem cell fractions and a higher ratio of granulocyte-macrophage progenitors to megakaryocyte-erythroid progenitors compared to cluster 2. These findings suggest that differences in bone marrow progenitor cell differentiation affect peripheral blood profiles. Artificial intelligence-driven ghost cytometry (GC) comprehensively captured these differences, distinguishing poor responders, with diagnostic GC scores correlating with BCR::ABL1IS mRNA levels. The study indicates that multivariate analysis of CBC and GC captures biological features associated with early molecular response in CML. TEASER ABSTRACT: Baseline complete blood count (CBC) profiles stratified patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) into biologically distinct groups with different early molecular responses. Poor responders had higher BCR::ABL1IS levels, lower major molecular response rates, expanded hematopoietic stem cell fractions, and granulocyte-macrophage progenitor-biased differentiation. Artificial intelligence-driven Ghost Cytometry (GC) comprehensively captured these response-associated features of CBC with scores correlating with BCR::ABL1IS levels. Together, CBC and GC capture biological features associated with early molecular response in CML.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42544750
Skipped: PubMed ID 42543639 is a review article
Tyrosine kinase inhibitors are recommended as maintenance therapy following allogeneic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) for Philadelphia chromosome-positive (Ph+) acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), but optimal medication, dose, and duration remain a subject of ongoing study. We provide the final analysis of a prospective randomized trial comparing prophylactic and minimal residual disease (MRD)-triggered imatinib maintenance. The two patient cohorts did not differ significantly in terms of cumulative incidence of relapse (CIR; 14% vs. 18%), non-relapse mortality (NRM; 12% vs. 11%), leukemia-free survival (LFS) 64% vs. 69%, and overall survival (OS) at 10 years (68% vs. 71%). Endpoints were assessed every 6 weeks within the trial from 4 weeks after SCT until EOS at week 55 and after that according to local standards. In summary, this provides a framework for MRD-based treatment of patients for maintenance after HSCT with excellent long-term outcome after 10 years in both groups.
We describe a unique case of SAMD9-associated myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) with monosomy 7 that evolved over 16 years into BCR::ABL1-positive acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and subsequently manifested as B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). Genomic analysis at AML diagnosis revealed a germline SAMD9 mutation together with somatic RUNX1 and PPM1D mutations, supporting stepwise clonal evolution, with BCR::ABL1 emerging as a late leukemogenic event. The dominant leukemic population at AML onset showed myeloid morphology and immunophenotype, whereas a minor CD19+CD10+ population was already detectable. Following venetoclax and azacitidine therapy, the dominant leukemic phenotype shifted to B-ALL while retaining BCR::ABL1 positivity. Detection of the Philadelphia chromosome in mature neutrophils at both AML onset and ALL relapse supported multilineage involvement of a multipotent BCR::ABL1-positive clone. Ponatinib achieved disease control. This case highlights late acquisition of BCR::ABL1 during SAMD9-associated clonal evolution and therapy-driven phenotypic shift within a shared Ph-positive leukemic stem-cell hierarchy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Establishing a differential diagnosis for polyuria and polydipsia during pregnancy can be challenging. We describe a pregnant woman with severe polyuria (urine output 9L/24h) and polydipsia without pre-existing symptoms. Gestational diabetes and electrolyte disturbances were excluded; HbA1c and daily glucose profiles were normal. Due to pregnancy, no water deprivation or arginine stimulation test was performed. Copeptin, a surrogate marker for AVP/ADH, was <2 pmol/L (reference: 0-9 pmol/L), ruling out AVP resistance. Because of disabling symptoms, a trial of oral desmopressin was initiated during admission, leading to complete normalization of diuresis without thirst. Weight, diuresis, plasma/urine sodium, and osmolality were closely monitored. After delivery of a healthy son, desmopressin was discontinued and symptoms resolved spontaneously, with copeptin remaining normal. These findings ruled out primary polydipsia. Conclusion: this was a case of pregnancy-induced AVP deficiency due to elevated placental vasopressinase activity, a rare condition (2-4 per 100,000 pregnancies).
Transcatheter closure of ventricular septal defect (VSD) is a promising alternative to surgery; however, outcomes in patients with coexisting aortic valve prolapse (AVP) remain limited.The authors aimed to evaluate outcomes and risk factors after VSD closure using the KONAR-MF Occluder (MFO) in a large Asian cohort with a high prevalence of AVP.Between 2021 and 2024, consecutive patients undergoing transcatheter VSD closure at our institution using only the MFO were enrolled. Right coronary cusp (RCC) prolapse was quantified using the RCC prolapse index on transesophageal echocardiography. Device position relative to the aortic cusp was classified as nontouching, clamping, or holding. Risk factors for procedural failure and progression of aortic regurgitation (AR) were analyzed.Among 109 cases (13.8%, 15 of 109 doubly committed [Dc] type), 61.5% (67 of 109) had AVP. The procedural success rate was 94.5% (103 of 109; 95% CI: 88.4%-98.0%). Younger age, Dc VSD, aortic rim deficiency, and larger defect size were univariate correlates of failure, whereas RCC prolapse index was the only independent predictor in multivariate analysis (OR: 2.48; 95% CI: 1.06-5.83 per 10% increase; P = 0.037). During a median (IQR) follow-up of 14.3 (8.4-22.8) months, AR progression occurred in 7 (6.8%) patients. Device clamping of the aortic cusp was associated with AR progression (OR: 6.67; 95% CI: 1.10-58.1; P = 0.048).VSD closure using the MFO is safe and effective, including in patients with outlet-type VSD and AVP. Significant RCC prolapse predicts procedural failure, and clamping of the aortic cusp may compromise long-term valve function.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Localization and communication of surgical margins remain a challenge in oncologic surgery, particularly in the setting of staged reconstruction where wound bed deformation alters native anatomical landmarks. This proof-of-concept case report evaluates the feasibility of augmented reality (AR) to reorient a specimen-derived 3D tumor model within the resection bed during staged chest wall reconstruction. One patient with a recurrent undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma of the chest wall underwent radical chest wall excision with staged reconstruction. Following resection, the specimen was scanned with a structured-light 3D scanner to create a digital twin. The 3D model was virtually annotated to mirror the standard grossing process using a custom computer-aided design software. The mapped model was uploaded into an Apple Vision Pro (AVP) AR headset. On the day of the staged reconstruction, the holographic specimen model was reoriented in situ using predefined anatomical landmarks for registration during the surgical setup period. First-time AR users were able to manipulate and correctly position the model after a brief onboarding. AR-guided placement was completed without altering routine care or delaying operative workflow (surgeon onboarding to AVP: 5 min; AR specimen placement and verification: 5 min). Alignment was qualitatively confirmed with inked specimen surfaces and resected rib orientation in the wound bed. No positive margin was identified in this index case, therefore performance for margin relocalization was not assessed. In this single-case study, AR-guided reorientation of a specimen-derived 3D model in reconstructive chest wall surgery was feasible and compatible with surgical workflows.© The Author(s) 2026.
Background: Hematopoietic stem/progenitor cell (HSPC) transplantation outcomes depend critically on the dose of functional stem cells delivered to patients, yet current ex vivo cell therapy manufacturing processes lack reliable methods to quantify therapeutic hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) after in vitro culture. This gap poses significant clinical risks, as culture-induced changes may alter the cellular composition of therapeutic products. The challenge stems from two key limitations: (i) biological-conventional HSC markers to phenotypically characterize subpopulations such as CD38 become unreliable during culture, and (ii) technical-existing assays cannot distinguish between HSCs and phenotypically similar progenitors in manipulated products.To solve this problem, we compared an ITGA3- and CD49f-based identification strategy that bypasses culture-sensitive markers.Through single-cell analysis of adult mobilized peripheral blood HSPCs cultured under clinical manufacturing conditions, we demonstrate that ITGA3+ cells better maintain stemness signatures (higher AVP/HLF expression) compared to CD49f+.Functional validation through xenotransplantation revealed superior engraftment and multilineage reconstitution with ITGA3+ HSCs.Our findings provide the first validated method to track functional HSCs during clinical manufacturing, addressing a fundamental quality control challenge in the field. This advance enables more accurate dosing for transplants and provides a critical tool for emerging gene-modified HSPC therapies where product characterization is paramount.Copyright © 2026 International Society for Cell & Gene Therapy. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists elicit diuresis and natriuresis in humans and rodents. However, little is known about their interactions with the bodies hormonal systems that control fluid homeostasis. We performed a single center, open-label, before-and-after study and discovered that liraglutide reduces plasma arginine vasopressin (AVP) levels in healthy humans. By quantitative proteomic and phosphoproteomic investigation of the rat pituitary gland, we detail time- and sex-dependent modifications to synaptic proteins mediated by liraglutide. We developed an in vitro AVP luciferase assay to assess the impact of synaptic protein phosphorylation on AVP secretion. We used this assay to identify synaptic protein phosphosites that influence AVP release and liraglutide-mediated sex differences in AVP release. Investigation of AVP downstream signaling pathways in the kidney revealed posttranslational changes to the crucial AVP-regulated water channel aquaporin 2. Thus, glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist modulation of AVP release may be responsible for cardiovascular and renal changes observed in patients.
Embolisation represents the primary therapeutic intervention for pulmonary arteriovenous malformations (PAVMs); however, post-procedural recanalisation remains a recognised complication. This study aimed to identify anatomical and morphological factors associated with PAVM recanalisation, while also describing embolisation modalities used.A retrospective, observational analysis was conducted on 40 patients with PAVMs embolised. Demographic variables, angiographic measurements (supplying artery, vein, sac diameters), embolisation modalities including coils, Amplatzer vascular plugs (AVPs), microvascular plugs (MVPs), or combinations, and the presence of recanalisation (defined as < 70% reduction in linear sac diameter on follow-up CT angiography) were collected. Logistic regression analysis was performed.A total of 109 pulmonary arteriovenous malformations (PAVMs) were embolised across 40 patients, with follow-up imaging available for 86 PAVMs. Larger feeding artery diameter (OR 1.410, p = 0.008) and complex PAVM morphology (OR 5.464, p = 0.002) were significantly associated with recanalisation on univariate analysis. Male sex and greater sac diameter were also associated on univariate analysis but did not remain significant in the multivariable model. On multivariable logistic regression, complex PAVM morphology (OR 4.00, 95% CI 1.27-12.66, p = 0.018) and larger feeding artery diameter (OR 1.29 per mm, 95% CI 1.01-1.65, p = 0.044) were independently associated with recanalisation. Although not reaching statistical significance, there was a trend toward higher recanalisation rates in lesions treated with coil embolisation (OR 1.926, p = 0.166). Embolisation with vascular plugs was associated with less risk of recanalisation but was insignificant (AVP [OR 0.782, p = 0.654], MVP [OR 0.342, p = 0.078]).Larger feeding artery diameter and complex PAVM morphology were independently associated with recanalisation on multivariable analysis. Male sex showed a univariable association that did not persist after adjustment and should be considered exploratory. Device type showed trends but was not a primary determinant. Larger, prospective studies are needed to validate these findings and optimise embolisation strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) are neuroendocrine-disrupting chemicals that produce adverse neurodevelopmental effects. PBDEs have been implicated as risk factors for autism spectrum disorder (ASD), which is characterized by abnormal psychosocial functioning and is commonly comorbid with cognitive deficits and sensory abnormalities. Here, we used a mouse model with translationally relevant exposure to establish direct causal evidence that maternal transfer of a commercial mixture of PBDEs, DE-71, produces ASD-relevant behavioral and neuroendocrine deficits in male offspring. C57Bl6/N mouse dams were exposed to a commercial PBDE mixture, DE-71, via oral administration of 0 (vehicle control, VEH/CON), 0.1 (L-DE-71), or 0.4 (H-DE-71) mg/kg b.w./day for 10 weeks, spanning from 3 weeks prior to gestation through the end of lactation at postnatal day (PND) 21. Mass spectrometric analysis indicated a dose-dependent transfer of PBDEs (in ppb) to brains of F1 male offspring at PND 30, with reduction in levels by PND 110. DE-71-exposed adult F1 male offspring displayed ASD-relevant abnormal neurobehavioral phenotypes, including impaired social novelty preference (SNP) despite intact general sociability and exaggerated repetitive behavior. There were also milder effects on long-term social recognition memory (SRM). DE-71-exposed mice also displayed altered olfactory discrimination of social odors without altered odor preference for non-social odors, impaired novel object recognition memory, and reduced open field habituation relative to VEH/CON. However, no changes were observed in sensorimotor, anxiety-, or depressive-like behaviors. At the molecular level, DE-71-exposed males displayed deregulated gene markers of prosocial neuropeptides, oxytocin, vasopressin, and PACAP systems in hypothalamic and forebrain regions. Oxt was upregulated in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN); Avp was upregulated in the PVN and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) but downregulated in the lateral septum (LS); Avp1ar and Adcyap1 were upregulated in the BNST; and Adcyap1r1 was upregulated in the PVN, supraoptic nucleus (SON), and BNST. Peripheral OXT was increased in L-DE-71 males, while no changes in plasma AVP were observed. These findings demonstrate that developmental PBDE exposure produces enduring behavioral and neuroendocrine phenotypes that resemble core domains of ASD, which may result from early neurodevelopmental reprogramming within central social and memory networks.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Neuroendocrinology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Society for Neuroendocrinology.
Lupus-associated hypophysitis is a rare but clinically important manifestation of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), characterised by heterogeneous pituitary dysfunction and inflammatory sellar changes that may mimic other pituitary disorders. Evidence is limited to isolated reports. We aimed to summarise clinical, radiological, endocrine features, management, and outcomes.A narrative systematic review of MEDLINE, Embase, Web of Science, and Google Scholar to 10 November 2025. Reports were included if accepted SLE criteria were met and hypophysitis or hypothalamic-pituitary inflammation was attributed to SLE after exclusion of alternative sellar pathology. Demographic, clinical, endocrine, imaging, treatment, and outcome data were synthesised descriptively.Eleven cases (63% female; median age 23 years) were identified, most presenting at or near SLE diagnosis. Common symptoms included polyuria/polydipsia, fatigue, amenorrhoea, and headache. Arginine vasopressin deficiency (AVP-D) frequently coexisted with multi-axis anterior hypopituitarism. MRI typically demonstrated pituitary stalk thickening, gland enlargement, and loss of the posterior pituitary bright spot. High-dose glucocorticoids, with or without additional immunosuppression, led to improvement in most cases, although persistent adrenal and gonadal deficits were common; one patient died from severe hyponatraemia.Lupus-associated hypophysitis is a rare manifestation of SLE with heterogeneous endocrine and radiological presentations that may create diagnostic challenges. Early endocrine evaluation and pituitary imaging are important in patients with suspected hypothalamic-pituitary involvement.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The use of mixed reality (MR) in endoscopic spine surgery has recently been introduced, promising to enhance visualization, improve workflow, and support intraoperative decision-making. The successful use of the Apple Vision Pro (AVP) MR headset has recently been documented during biportal endoscopic spine surgery. To our knowledge, this case represents the first use of MR technology as an adjunct to biportal endoscopic spine fusion. An 81-year-old male with a history of lumbar stenosis and Grade 1 spondylolisthesis at level 4-5 presented with progressively worsening radicular pain refractory to conservative measures. Based on the clinical findings, the patient underwent a transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (TLIF) via a biportal endoscopic approach. The procedure included endoscopic laminotomy, bilateral decompression, facetectomy, placement of an interbody cage with bone grafting, and posterior spinal instrumentation and fusion. Throughout the case, the operating surgeon wore the AVP MR Headset, which virtually displayed a live endoscopic view, over the real environment without obstructing the surgical field. The AVP consolidated the endoscopic feed directly into the surgeon's line of sight, eliminating the need to shift gaze between the operative field and external monitors and supporting a more ergonomic, streamlined operative workflow. The patient demonstrated complete resolution of radicular leg pain (VAS Leg 7 → 0) and marked functional recovery (ODI 14% → 2%) by two months postoperatively, with no intraoperative or postoperative complications, and these improvements were maintained through the seven-month follow-up. This case demonstrates the feasibility of using MR as an adjunct to biportal endoscopic lumbar fusion without observed complications. The AVP HMD provided an integrated, line-of-sight visualization platform that reduced reliance on external monitors and supported ergonomic surgical performance. Further investigation is needed to evaluate its effect on surgical efficiency and long-term patient outcomes.
We describe a rare case of arginine vasopressin deficiency (AVP-D) in a female in her 40s that developed two weeks following symptomatic COVID-19 infection. Symptoms included polydipsia, nocturia and polyuria of 9.1 L per day. A water deprivation test demonstrated an ongoing high urine output despite increasing plasma osmolality, confirming the diagnosis. Desmopressin was commenced with good effect and titrated to clinical response. This demonstrates the importance of awareness of potential pituitary complications following COVID-19 infection, including AVP-D.© the author(s).
Nearly half of patients with melanoma do not respond to immune checkpoint inhibitors (CPIs) and many develop immune-related adverse events (irAEs), often forcing treatment discontinuation, and underscoring the need to predict and monitor outcomes. Responses may depend on both B cell and T cell activity.We performed high-dimensional mass cytometry profiling of coexisting peripheral B cell and key T cell states in treatment-naïve patients and healthy individuals, and paired longitudinal samples from CPI-treated patients, with clinical annotations to define immune correlates of outcomes.CPI-naive patients exhibited reduced CD19+ B cells, reduced B cell (CD21, IL-2, CXCR5) and T cell (CD38, CD27) activation markers, alongside enriched naïve (CD21lo) and double-negative (DN2)-like B cells, CD95+IL-10+plasmablasts, consistent with extrafollicular responses. Concurrently, programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1)+ and proliferation marker protein-67 (Ki67)+ T cell expansion indicates ongoing activation with features of proliferative exhaustion. Active disease featured increased regulatory CD95 expression on B cells and expanded T follicular helper-like and activated DN (CD4-CD8-) T cells, indicating sustained antigen stimulation. Pretreatment, elevated PD-1+ T cells predicted irAEs, whereas VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor)+TGF-β (transforming growth factor-β)+ DN T cells were enriched in patients without subsequent toxicity. Pretreatment, plasmablasts, transitional B cells, Forkhead box protein P3 (FoxP3)+ and central memory-like CD8+ T cells correlated with worse overall survival; naïve CD21lo B cells, PD-1+CD8+ T cells and CD4+follicular helper-like T cells predicted shorter event-free survival; CD4+ memory T cells predicted better prognosis, implicating dysregulated differentiation and sustained activation in adverse outcomes. On-treatment, naïve CD21hi B cells, plasmablasts, activated CD8+ and central memory-like CD4+ T cells expanded, indicating de novo humoral responses and cytotoxic T cell invigoration. On-treatment, increased class-switched memory (IgG2+) B and activated T cells predicted improved survival, while persistent naïve and DN B cells were associated with poorer outcomes. Anti-PD-1 monotherapy expanded naïve (CD21hi) B cells and global T cells. Anti-PD-1/anti-LAG-3 (lymphocyte-activation gene 3) combination contracted memory B cells.Melanoma displays aberrant peripheral B and T cell activation, maturation and exhaustion, prominent in active disease. Treatment-induced class-switched B cells and T cell invigoration predict clinical benefit and naïve/DN B cells signify resistance. Coordinated B and T cell responses, especially recurrent extrafollicular B cell and exhausted/regulatory T cell states emerge as candidate indicators of outcome.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published by BMJ Group.
A single dose of the replication-competent rVSVΔG-ZEBOV-GP vaccine is recommended by the WHO Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization during Ebola virus disease outbreaks. We aimed to assess the immunogenicity, safety, and tolerability of this vaccine in adults and adolescents with HIV.In this phase 2, multicentre, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled trial, we enrolled participants aged 13-70 years who had laboratory-confirmed HIV infection, were on antiretroviral therapy (ART), had an undetectable viral load (<40 copies per mL), and had a CD4 count of 200 cells per μL or more at four ambulatory settings in Montreal and Ottawa (Canada), Dakar (Senegal), and Bobo-Dioulasso (Burkina Faso). Sequential enrolment of five study cohorts occurred over time at each study site according to CD4 counts: cohort 1 (adults [age 18-70 years] with a CD4 count ≥500 cells per μL), cohort 2 (adults with a CD4 count of >350 and <500 cells per μL), cohort 3 (adults with a CD4 count of 200-350 cells per μL), cohort 4 (adolescents [age 13-17 years] with a CD4 count ≥200 cells per μL), and cohort 5 (adults and adolescents with a CD4 count ≥200 cells per μL). Participants were randomly assigned 4:1 to receive one dose (cohorts 1-4) or two doses (56 days apart; cohort 5) of rVSVΔG-ZEBOV-GP or placebo, administered at day 0. An unmasked staff member at each site prepared the vaccine or placebo; all other study personnel and participants were masked to group assignments. Participants were followed up to day 365. The primary immunogenicity endpoints, assessed in the per-protocol population, were Ebola virus-specific antibody responses measured by glycoprotein ELISA (GP-ELISA; geometric mean titre ratio [GMTR]) and neutralisation (geometric mean fold increase [GMFI] of plaque reduction neutralisation test [PRNT]) on day 28 in cohorts 1-5 combined (combined cohort), and 28 days after the second dose of vaccine or placebo in cohort 5. The primary safety endpoints, assessed in the as-treated population, were: the occurrence of each solicited local and systemic adverse event during a 14-day follow-up period after each vaccination; fever, joint pain (arthralgia), joint swelling (arthritis), rash, and blisters or vesicular lesions during a 42-day follow-up period after vaccination; any haematological and biochemical laboratory abnormality at 0, 3, 7, 14, and 28 days after each vaccine; occurrence of any unsolicited adverse event during a 42-day follow-up period after each vaccination; and occurrence of vaccine-related serious adverse events up to day 365 of the study. The trial is registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT03031912) and is complete.Between Aug 1, 2017, and March 3, 2022, we assessed 647 individuals for eligibility, 251 of whom were enrolled. 120 (48%) participants were male, 130 (52%) were female, 225 (90%) were Black (Black African or African Canadian), and median age was 52·0 years (IQR 48·0-56·0). 51 participants were enrolled in cohort 1, 50 in cohort 2, 50 in cohort 3, 50 in cohort 4, and 50 in cohort 5. 202 (80%) participants were assigned to receive rVSVΔG-ZEBOV-GP and 49 (20%) were assigned to receive placebo. One dose of rVSVΔG-ZEBOV-GP elicited superior immune responses compared with placebo, with GP-ELISA antibodies in the combined cohort (per-protocol population) increasing over 40-fold (GMTR 42·90, 95% CI 31·49-58·43; p<0·0001). In cohort 5, the GP-ELISA geometric mean titre 28 days after the second dose was over 200-fold higher in the rVSV-ZEBOV-GP group than in the placebo group (GMTR 208·66, 95% CI 115·57-376·72; p<0·0001). GFMI of PRNT titres was 11·51 (95% CI 9·82-13·50) at day 28 for participants in the combined cohort who received one dose of rVSVΔG-ZEBOV-GP and 86·64 (95% CI 69·85-107·46) 28 days after a second dose in cohort 5. Solicited adverse events up to 42 days after vaccination were mild to moderate in severity and transient. In the 14 days after the first dose of vaccine, the most common adverse events were injection site pain (130 of 201 participants, 65%), headache (109 of 201, 54%), fatigue (91 of 201, 45%), and joint pain (50 of 201, 25%). Unsolicited adverse events to day 42 were not different between participants who received rVSVΔG-ZEBOV-GP (103 of 201, 51%) and those who received placebo (22 of 49, 45%; p=0·52). No clinically significant changes in CD4 cell counts, HIV viral load, or haematological and biochemical laboratory tests were observed.A single dose of rVSVΔG-ZEBOV-GP is highly immunogenic in people living with HIV on ART with an undetectable viral load, with a tolerable safety profile. A two-dose regimen in a subset of participating adolescents and adults showed a significant boosting at day 28, with no increase in reactogenicity compared with the first dose.International Development Research Centre, US Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response, Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness.For the French translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
Immune checkpoint blockade targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 axis has improved the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), yet its therapeutic efficacy remains limited by insufficient antitumor immune activation. Herein, we developed a biomimetic manganese-amplified STING nanoagonist to potentiate PD-L1 blockade immunotherapy. Hollow mesoporous manganese silicate nanoparticles were engineered as Mn2⁺-releasing nanocarriers for loading a STING agonist (Sa) diABZI, followed by coating with anti-PD-L1 antibody-functionalized NSCLC tumor cell membranes. The resulting Sa@HMMSN@PM exhibited pH-responsive Sa release, preserved PD-L1 blocking activity, and enhanced tumor-cell-selective uptake. Mechanistically, Mn2⁺ released from HMMSN promoted cGAMP production, while Sa further enhanced STING phosphorylation, leading to robust STING activation. Sa@HMMSN@PM showed enhanced tumor accumulation, superior tumor growth inhibition and prolonged survival in both subcutaneous and orthotopic NSCLC mouse models. Further mechanistic studies demonstrated increased IFN-β, CXCL10, TNF-α, IL-6, and IFN-γ levels, together with enhanced CD4⁺ and CD8⁺ T-cell infiltration. Importantly, Sa@HMMSN@PM exhibited favorable biosafety without obvious systemic toxicity. Overall, this biomimetic Mn2⁺-amplified STING nanoagonist provides a promising strategy for integrating innate immune activation with immune checkpoint blockade for enhanced NSCLC immunotherapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Chemoradiotherapy (CRT) is a standard treatment for rectal cancer, yet patients show marked variability in response. Identifying reliable biomarkers that predict CRT response remains an unmet clinical need.Pretreatment biopsy samples from patients who received neoadjuvant CRT were analyzed using RNA sequencing. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified between responders and nonresponders, followed by functional enrichment analysis using Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes databases. To complement DEG-based results, gene-set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was performed to assess pathway activity across the ranked transcriptome and to prioritize biologically relevant pathways. Pathway-derived gene signatures were evaluated using receiver operating characteristic curves and validated in three independent data sets.A total of 1,477 DEGs were detected, including 729 upregulated and 748 downregulated genes in responders. Functional enrichment analysis indicated immune activation and epithelial polarity in responders, whereas nonresponders showed enrichment of extracellular matrix organization, focal adhesion, and phosphoinositide 3-kinase-protein kinase B signaling. GSEA further identified four pathways associated with CRT response: antigen presentation, extracellular matrix-receptor interaction, focal adhesion, and drug metabolism. Among these, the antigen presentation pathway consistently predicted treatment response across data sets. Elastic net regression defined a six-gene signature (KLRC1, CTSS, HLA-DMA, HLA-DQB1, HLA-DQB2, and CIITA) with strong predictive performance, with area under the curve values ranging from 0.76 to 0.81.These genes participate in major histocompatibility complex class II antigen-processing and immune-regulatory pathways that enhance CD4 T-cell activation. Overall, the findings indicate that an immune-active, antigen presentation phenotype underlies radiosensitivity in rectal cancer and that the six-gene signature may serve as a biomarker to guide personalized treatment strategies.
Tuberculosis (TB) remains one of the leading causes of death from a single infectious agent worldwide, yet the host pathways that regulate antigen presentation and lung inflammation during Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection are incompletely defined. Sorting nexin 5 (SNX5) is a protein implicated in endosomal trafficking, antigen processing, and antiviral host defense, but its contribution to antibacterial immunity is unknown. Here, we show that SNX5-deficient mice exhibit increased mortality following low-dose aerosol Mtb infection despite unchanged pulmonary bacterial burden compared with wild-type mice. Snx5-/- mice developed exacerbated lung inflammation without major alterations in immune cell recruitment. In macrophages, Snx5 did not affect phagocytosis, vacuolar maturation, intracellular bacterial control, or global transcriptional responses to Mtb but was required for efficient major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II antigen presentation. Snx5 deficiency was associated with reduced endolysosomal proteolysis and impaired MHC class II antigen presentation in vitro, resulting in reduced activation of antigen-specific CD4+ T cells without altering surface MHC class II abundance or costimulatory molecule expression. Together, these findings identify SNX5 as a regulator of MHC class II antigen presentation that influences inflammatory outcomes during pulmonary Mtb infection.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
There is substantial interest in developing novel engineering strategies to promote the sustained metabolic fitness of therapeutic T cells. We previously showed that overexpression of RAS homologue enriched in brain (RHEB), a positive regulator of mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1), promotes aerobic glycolysis and increases the anti-tumor functions of effector CD8+ T cells. To address whether these effects are conserved in CD4+ T cells, we have now examined how enforced activation of mTORC1 activity affects CD4+ T cell differentiation and function. Rheb overexpression induced a more balanced metabolic shift in CD4+ T cells than in CD8+ T cells, with increases in both oxidative phosphorylation and aerobic glycolysis. Although Rheb overexpression initially increased CD4+ T cell activation and proliferation in vitro, the underlying population architecture was complex, involving a shift to both more proliferative, cytotoxic-like cell states as well as more quiescent cell clusters characterised by counter-regulation of mTORC1 activity. Following adoptive transfer, tumor antigen-specific Rheb-transduced CD4+ T cells showed greater persistence but were less efficient than controls in eliminating tumor. This functional deficiency could be explained by a greater propensity of persisting Rheb-transduced CD4+ T cells to develop features of immune exhaustion, as evidenced by expression of multiple co-inhibitory receptors and impaired proliferation upon tumor rechallenge. Together, these data demonstrate the dynamic population response to tuning of T cell mTORC1 and the need to separately appraise cellular outputs of therapeutic CD4+ versus CD8+ T cells when metabolic pathways are manipulated by the same method.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
Asthma is a heterogeneous inflammatory airway disease characterized by immune dysregulation, airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR), and excessive immune activation. Although NLRP3 (NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing 3) has been extensively studied in asthma, its role remains controversial, and the contribution of DNA sensor AIM2 (Absent in Melanoma 2) is less well defined. To assess AIM2's relevance in asthma, we analyzed public human datasets and found increased AIM2, but not NLRP3, expression in severe asthma and in neutrophilic compared with paucigranulocytic asthma. In allergic asthma models induced by ovalbumin (OVA)-lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or house dust mite (HDM), AIM2 expression was increased in lung homogenates and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid cells. Analysis of a published single-cell RNA-seq dataset from the HDM model further showed increased Aim2, but not Nlrp3, expression in T helper cells, with most Aim2-expressing cells coexpressing Gata3. In the OVA-LPS model, whole-body Aim2 deficiency reduced AHR, inflammatory cytokine production, airway smooth muscle actin, and γH2A.X, consistent with decreased airway remodeling and tissue stress. Unexpectedly, CD4-specific, but not Treg- or myeloid-specific, Aim2 deletion significantly attenuated disease, identifying AIM2 in CD4+ T cells as a major driver of pathogenesis. In the HDM model, Aim2 deficiency similarly reduced AHR. Cell-specific deletion showed that AIM2 in CD4+ T cells promotes AHR and cytokine production, whereas AIM2 in myeloid cells modulates IgG1, IL-13-producing CD4+ T cells, and alveolar macrophages. These findings identify AIM2 as a regulator of allergic asthma acting predominantly through T cells, with an additional context-dependent contribution from myeloid cells.
DNA methylation might influence the expression of genes that regulate coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) progression. This work explored the significance of DNA methylation of 7 genes (TAC1, CDO1, HOXA9, ZFP42, SOX17, RASSF1A, and SHOX2) in blood circulating free DNA (cfDNA) in differentiating COVID-19 infections and recoveries. The correlation with changes in the proportion of immune cell populations in the recovery period was analyzed.18 COVID-19-infected, 65 COVID-19-recovered, and 11 uninfected individuals were included. DNA methylation expression was determined by quantitative multiplex methylation-specific PCR (qMSP). The immune function of the recovered group versus uninfected group was evaluated by full-spectrum flow cytometry.The infected population showed a higher methylation positivity rate for 7 genes compared to the uninfected/recovered population. A model was constructed to distinguish the infected patients from uninfected/recovered individuals using the methylation status of 7 genes, with a sensitivity, specificity and area under curve (AUC) of 0.889, 0.842 and 0.931, respectively. The results of flow cytometry revealed that CD8+ T cells and CD38+ CD8+ T cells were significantly upregulated in recovered individuals compared to those in uninfected individuals. DNA methylation was correlated with immune cell changes, with a significant increase in the percentage of T cells, PD-1+ function CD4+ T cells, TCRγδ+ cells, and CD38+ NKT cells upon an increase in 7 gene methylation positivity.This work revealed the significance of 7 gene methylation in the diagnosis of COVID-19 recovery, and demonstrated that these genes were significant in evaluating the immune function during the recovery period.Copyright (c) 2026 Xiao Xiao, Ren Xu, Chaoxiang Du, Jun Yin, Beibei Xin, Zhonghe Ke, Xiyan Li, Hao Zhang, Xinyu Chen.
Oral carcinoma is the sixth most prevalent cancer type with a poor 5-year survival rate. mRNA-lipid nanoparticle-based immunotherapy can overcome the challenges associated with conventional treatment options. Here, we investigated the immunogenicity and antitumor efficacy of survivin antigen encoded mRNA lipid nanoparticles (LNPs) in combination with anti-CTLA-4 immune checkpoint inhibitor. Survivin mRNA was synthesized by in vitro transcription technique after cloning the antigenic target sequence into an expression vector. The mRNA-LNPs were prepared with lipids, ALC-0315, DOPE, and cholesterol using a droplet-based microfluidic device. The average particle size, polydispersity index and encapsulation efficiency of mRNA-LNPs was found to be 305 ± 68 nm, 0.11, and 65 ± 3.9%, respectively. Survivin mRNA-LNPs incubated with mouse-derived bone marrow dendritic cells showed activation of tumor-associated antigen specific T-cells. The co-culture of splenocytes, and cheek cells derived from C57BL/6 mouse administered with survivin mRNA-LNPs and CTLA-4 inhibitor with MOC-1 oral carcinoma cells showed significant (P < 0.05) reduction in the cancer cell viability compared with control group. The oral cancer cytotoxicity is attributed to the upregulation of MHCI and MHCII, CD8 + and CD4 + T-lymphocytes and reduction in the T-regulatory cells. Taken together, this study provides preliminary evidence for further development of survivin mRNA-LNPs and CTLA-4 inhibitor combination for oral cancer immunotherapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Tuberculosis (TB) remains one of the world's deadliest infectious diseases and is the leading infectious disease killer globally. Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) is currently the only licensed vaccine for TB prevention, but it has limitations in preventing latent infection and TB reactivation. To overcome these limitations, this study selected the secreted antigen Rv3904c (EsxE) to construct the recombinant prokaryotic expression plasmid pET21b-Rv3904c, and the recombinant protein rEsxE was expressed and purified. The antigen specificity of rEsxE was further confirmed by measuring cytokine levels released from peripheral blood cells of Mycobacterium tuberculosis-infected individuals upon rEsxE stimulation using a chemiluminescence assay. The results showed that rEsxE stimulated M. tuberculosis-infected individuals to produce high levels of Th1-type cytokines. Mice were immunized with rEsxE formulated in MnJ adjuvant, and serum specific antibodies, cytokine levels secreted by splenocytes, and the numbers of polyfunctional T cells in the spleen were assessed. The results demonstrated that the BCG prime-rEsxE/MnJ boost strategy induced the highest levels of specific IgG antibodies, with an IgG2c/IgG1 ratio greater than 1, indicating a Th1-skewed immune bias. Upon stimulation with rEsxE or BCG-PPD, splenocytes from this group secreted significantly higher levels of Th1-type cytokines (IFN-γ, TNF-α, and IL-2) than those from the BCG alone and rEsxE/MnJ groups. Flow cytometry analysis revealed that the BCG+rEsxE/MnJ group had the highest numbers of IFN-γ⁺/IL-2⁺ double-positive CD4⁺ and CD8⁺ T cells in the spleen. The in vitro mycobacterial growth inhibition assay provided additional evidence that the prime‑boost regimen augments the capacity of splenocytes to restrict mycobacterial growth. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that rEsxE is immunogenic and that the BCG prime‑rEsxE/MnJ boost strategy elicits robust Th1‑biased immune responses as well as ex vivo mycobacterial growth inhibitory function, thereby supporting the further development of this approach as a candidate tuberculosis subunit vaccine.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563454 is a review article
Fatty infiltration and fibrosis drive poor outcomes after chronic muscle injury. Here, we characterized fibroadipogenic progenitor cell (FAP) subpopulations from healthy and injured human rotator cuff muscle by single-cell RNA sequencing, full-spectrum flow cytometry, and functional assays and found distinct subpopulations, including a preadipogenic population that expresses delta-like noncanonical notch ligand 1 (DLK1+) and a prefibrogenic population that expresses decay-accelerating factor (CD55+). We used in vitro and flow cytometry experiments to show that human FAP lineages displayed unique surface marker expression across adipogenic and fibrogenic differentiation. In chronic human rotator cuff injury, expression of DLK1 RNA and DLK1 protein was decreased compared with that in healthy muscle. Overexpression of DLK1 in primary human FAPs suppressed differentiation into adipocytes in vitro, whereas DLK1 knockdown increased adipogenesis. In an immunodeficient murine model of glycerol-induced acute muscle injury, xenotransplantation of DLK1-overexpressing human FAPs into the injured murine muscle resulted in reduced fatty infiltration after 14 days by histological assessment, supporting a functional role for DLK1 in restraining adipogenesis. Together, we defined molecularly distinct, clinically relevant human FAP subpopulations, established DLK1 as a regulator of adipogenic potential in vivo, and provided a framework to identify pathogenic FAP states that may be used in the pursuit to prevent maladaptive muscle remodeling.
Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) signaling through the E-type prostanoid 4 (EP4) receptor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of colorectal cancer (CRC). We herein identified decay-accelerating factor, also known as CD55, as a novel CRC-associated downstream factor of the EP4 receptor. The integration of transcriptomic profiling of PGE2-stimulated HCA-7 human colon cancer cells with analyses of cancer genomic databases predicted CD55 as a potential EP4 receptor-regulated target. Inhibitor-based experiments showed the induction of CD55 after a PGE2 stimulation required the EP4 receptor and Gi protein in HCA-7 cells, whereas protein kinase A signaling was dispensable. In combination with a toxicogenomic database analysis, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) was identified as the predominant effector connecting the EP4 receptor to CD55 upregulation. A single-cell RNA-seq re-analysis of human CRC tissues revealed CD55 upregulation and p38 MAPK-related gene set enrichment in epithelial cells expressing the EP4 receptor, suggesting that this induction mechanism may operate in a subset of epithelial cells in clinical specimens. Collectively, these results delineate a PGE2/EP4 receptor/Gi protein/p38 MAPK signaling axis that induces CD55 expression in HCA-7 cells and epithelial tumor cells, provide new mechanistic clues for understanding the regulation of complement regulatory molecule CD55 expression by prostaglandin signaling.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Staphylococcus infection-associated glomerulonephritis (SAGN) has emerged as the leading cause of infection-related glomerulonephritis (IRGN) in the Western subcontinents, but pathogenesis remains poorly understood in the absence of animal models and detailed molecular mechanisms.To dissect the complex underlying immunopathology, we analyzed formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded kidney biopsy tissues from three patients with SAGN and one normal control kidney (NCK) using single-cell spatial transcriptomics (analyzing a total of 3,993 cell-specific transcriptomes). The SAGN biopsies showed diffuse endocapillary hypercellularity with focal crescents. Following annotation of various cell types, we constructed cell communication networks using CellChat to identify ligand-receptor interactions in normal and SAGN kidneys.Secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1/osteopontin) emerged as the most enriched signaling network in SAGN with markedly increased autocrine and paracrine SPP1-CD44 activity among tubular segments and parietal epithelial cells (PECs). In contrast, SPP1-integrin signaling was mainly observed in healthy control kidneys. Consistent with previous reports, complement pathway activation was detected exclusively in diseased kidneys, with PECs as principal signal receivers, suggesting the potential role in crescent formation. Transcripts for C2, C3, CD55, Factor B, and Factor D showed significant upregulation in SAGN. In contrast, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), angiopoietin-like proteins (ANG PTL), and progranulin/granulin networks exhibited decreased communication probabilities in SAGN versus NCK, suggesting the suppression of protective angiogenic and anti-inflammatory signaling. Immunofluorescence staining for SPP1 showed increased staining in renal tubular segments in SAGN biopsies, supporting our transcriptomic data.SPP1 and complement pathways appear to drive pro-inflammatory responses, while protective VEGF signaling is compromised, providing potential therapeutic targets for this disease.Copyright © 2026 Karaiskos, Santana-Quintero, Bott, Paul, Brodsky, Ayoub, Parikh, Rovin, Nadasdy, Nakhasi, Gannavaram and Satoskar.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42530477
Paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria (PNH) is a rare, acquired clonal haematopoietic stem cell disorder characterised by intravascular haemolysis, thrombosis and bone marrow failure. It results from an acquired somatic mutation in the X-linked phosphatidylinositol glycan Class A (PIGA) gene, leading to deficiency of glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored complement regulatory proteins, particularly CD55 and CD59, and uncontrolled complement-mediated haemolysis. Although sickle cell disease is the most prevalent haemolytic anaemia in Kenya, other aetiologies need to be considered. We describe a case series of seven patients with PNH confirmed by fluorescent aerolysin reagent (FLAER) flow cytometry. Patients were young, aged 17-38 years (median age of 23 years), with a predominance of males. All presented with recurrent symptomatic anaemia requiring multiple transfusions. One patient had pancytopenia due to very severe aplastic anaemia, while another presented with mesenteric vein thrombosis complicated by bowel ischaemia. All patients had large PNH clones on flow cytometry. Management was largely supportive due to a lack of access to complement inhibitor. These included blood transfusion, folate supplementation, cautious iron replacement and anticoagulation where indicated. One patient underwent successful matched sibling allogeneic stem cell transplant. This series highlights the presence of PNH in Kenya, diagnostic delay and the need for improved access to definitive testing and therapy in resource-limited environments.Copyright © 2026 Matilda Ong’ondi et al. Case Reports in Hematology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Fistulizing Crohn's disease represents a severe and disabling complication characterized by transmural inflammation and aberrant tissue remodeling. Although fissures are considered precursors of fistulas, the cellular and molecular mechanisms driving this transition remain poorly defined. We aimed to characterize the spatial immune-stromal interactions underlying fissure formation and progression toward fistula.Spatial transcriptomics was performed on intestinal surgical specimens from Crohn's disease patients with inflamed tissue, fissures of increasing depth, and entero-enteric fistulas. Spatial data were integrated with single-cell reference and ligand-receptor analysis to define cellular programs and signaling networks across tissue niches.Fissure-associated regions were enriched in inflammatory fibroblasts and inflammatory monocytes, identifying fissures as active immune-stromal niches rather than passive structural defects. Integration with independent single-cell datasets confirmed the association of these signatures with Crohn's disease fistulae, while comparison with non-Crohn's fistulas and ulcerative colitis supported disease specificity. Single-cell-informed pseudotime analysis identified coordinated stromal and myeloid remodeling programs associated with inflammatory fibroblast enrichment and macrophage/LAMP3 + dendritic cell states. Ligand-receptor analysis demonstrated a progressive shift from CXCL12-CXCR4-mediated immune recruitment toward Complement activation and adhesion-mediated retention circuits involving ADGRE5-CD55 and THY1-integrin pathways, defining a spatially organized fistula-associated immune-stromal niche.Fissures represent active immune-stromal niches in which coordinated remodeling programs support the development of the fistula microenvironment. These findings identify early fissure-associated remodeling as a potential therapeutic window and highlight CXCR4, complement, and immune-stromal adhesion pathways as candidate targets to intercept fistula progression in Crohn's disease.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Crohn’s and Colitis Organisation. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
To address critical challenges in clinical blood shortages and limited preservation periods, particularly affecting emergency transfusions, transgenic pig red blood cells (RBCs) emerge as a promising solution. We performed multi-gene editing on pig RBCs by knocking out three Xeno antigen genes (GGTA1, B4GALNT2, CMAH) and introducing high expression of human CD55 and CD47, generating 5-gene edited (5GE) RBCs. After co-incubating with human blood, we assessed their survival rate, along with physicochemical indicators related to hemolytic reactions and inflammatory responses. We further compared the physicochemical properties between transgenic pig blood and human blood. 5GE RBCs showed no significant agglutination, only mild hemolysis, and markedly reduced cytotoxicity. Binding by human antibodies and complement was significantly diminished. This study demonstrates the strong potential of genetically engineered porcine RBCs for emergency human transfusion, offering a viable alternative to alleviate blood shortages, especially when human RBCs are unavailable.© 2026 The Authors.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42496283 is a review article
The rapid identification and precise quantification of cancer biomarkers are essential for the purposes of diagnosis, classification, and therapeutic intervention. Traditional molecular diagnostic methodologies, such as polymerase chain reaction (PCR), provide considerable sensitivity; however, they depend on exponential amplification and advanced instrumentation, thereby constraining their applicability for point-of-care testing. In this study, we developed a Transcription-driven CRISPR Cascade Amplification (TCCA) for one-tube detection of mRNA at the concentration of 0.6 copies/μL within just 30 min. The target-induced assembly of a three-way junction (TWJ) facilitates the generation of a split T7 promoter, which initiates transcription and activates Cas13a collateral cleavage. The activated Cas13a subsequently cleaves cascade probes and releases new trigger strands, forming a transcription-driven cascade amplification circuit. The assay enables multiplex detection of breast cancer-associated mRNA biomarkers (HBB, KRT17, and CD55) in cell lysates, demonstrating robust performance in intricate biological matrices. Furthermore, incorporation of a multiplex OR-gated logic design enables parallel target recognition, thereby enhancing detection reliability for rapid and accurate clinical diagnostics.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
There is limited evidence evaluating the cost-effectiveness of adding subacromial decompression (SAD) to rotator cuff repair (RCR) in the treatment of full-thickness rotator cuff tears.The purpose of this study was to perform (1) a systematic review and (2) cost-utility analysis comparing isolated RCR versus RCR with SAD in patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears.This was an economic and decision-analysis study; Level II.A systematic review was conducted per Preferred Reporting Items for Systemactic reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) 2020 guidelines to identify Level I-II studies comparing RCR and RCR with SAD at ≥5-year follow-up. A decision tree model evaluated cost-effectiveness over a 5-year time horizon. Costs, revision rates, and utility values (EQ-5D-based) were derived from the literature. Health utility was expressed in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Cost-effectiveness was assessed using incremental cost-effectiveness ratios and net monetary benefit (NMB), with a $50,000/QALY willingness-to-pay threshold. Monte Carlo and one-way sensitivity analyses were done to account for parameter uncertainty.Over 5 years, RCR with SAD had a lower mean cost ($33,448) compared with isolated RCR ($34,593) and yielded slightly higher QALYs (1.465 vs 1.454). RCR + SAD demonstrated a positive incremental NMB ($1,695) and a negative incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, emerging as the dominant strategy. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis favored RCR + SAD in 99.28% of 1,000 simulations. On one-way analysis, RCR + SAD remained cost-effective with burr costs up to $1,721, additional surgical time up to 43.6 minutes, and revision probabilities up to 10%.Despite higher upfront costs, SAD during RCR remains cost-effective at mid-term follow-up. By reducing revision rates, SAD provides greater QALYs at a lower overall cost compared with isolated RCR.Copyright © 2026 by the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons.
Immunotherapy combined with anti-angiogenic agents and chemotherapy has emerged as a novel therapeutic option for non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (non-sqNSCLC) after resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). This study evaluated the efficacy, safety, and cost-effectiveness of these regimens in patients with TKI-resistant non-sqNSCLC in China.A network meta-analysis was performed to compare the efficacy and safety of ivonescimab plus chemotherapy (Ivon-Chem), sintilimab plus bevacizumab and chemotherapy (Sint-Beva-Chem), and atezolizumab plus bevacizumab and chemotherapy (Atez-Beva-Chem). A Markov model was constructed to assess the cost-effectiveness of Ivon-Chem, Sint-Beva-Chem, Atez-Beva-Chem, and chemotherapy until the survival probability fell below 1% in any regimen. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) and net monetary benefit (NMB) were estimated using a willingness-to-pay (WTP) threshold of $41,859. Sensitivity analyses and scenario simulations were also performed.Ivon-Chem, Sint-Beva-Chem, and Atez-Beva-Chem improved efficacy but were associated with poorer safety profiles than chemotherapy. Compared with chemotherapy, Ivon-Chem, Sint-Beva-Chem, and Atez-Beva-Chem were not cost-effective, with ICERs of $61,882.3/QALY, $68,657.0/QALY, and $188,820.5/QALY, respectively. Moreover, the NMBs of Ivon-Chem, Sint-Beva-Chem and Atez-Beva-Chem were all negative, indicating that none of these regimens was economically acceptable. Scenario analyses indicated that, compared with chemotherapy, Ivon-Chem would become cost-effective if the price of ivonescimab were reduced by at least 47.2%. Similarly, Sint-Beva-Chem and Atez-Beva-Chem would achieve cost-effectiveness following price reductions of 59.3% for both sintilimab and bevacizumab, and 84.4% for both atezolizumab and bevacizumab, respectively.These immunotherapy-based regimens provided significant survival benefits in patients with TKI-resistant non-sqNSCLC. However, from the perspective of the Chinese healthcare system, Ivon-Chem, Sint-Beva-Chem, and Atez-Beva-Chem were not cost-effective. Substantial price reductions would be required to improve their economic viability.Copyright © 2026 Teng, Yang, Zhang, Qin and Ji.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557463 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42543193 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42531856
Pediatric laparoscopic hernia repair (LHR) is a short, commonly performed ambulatory procedure that can be conducted under general anesthesia without neuromuscular blocker (NMB). This prospective randomized controlled trial evaluated whether a transversus abdominis plane (TAP) block facilitates the implementation of NMB-free anesthesia in this surgical setting.Eighty pediatric patients scheduled for LHR without NMB were stratified by age (≤ 3 or > 3 years) and randomized to receive either a bilateral TAP block after induction (TAPB group) or surgical-site local infiltration at closure (Control group). The primary outcome was the mean intraoperative Leiden Surgical Rating Scale (L-SRS) score.The TAPB group demonstrated significantly higher mean L-SRS scores compared with controls (mean difference, 0.9; 95% CI, 0.69-1.11; p < 0.001), consistent across age subgroups. Age-stratified analysis revealed a markedly increased risk of intraoperative hemodynamic stress responses in the Control group, with adjusted odds ratios of 10.09 (95% CI, 3.46-29.42; Cochran's p < 0.001) for mean arterial pressure elevation ≥ 15% and 4.78 for heart rate elevation ≥ 15%, as well as a higher need for remifentanil rescue (adjusted odds ratio, 10.09; 95% CI, 3.44-29.60; Cochran's p < 0.001). The TAPB group also exhibited improved postoperative recovery, with significantly lower rates of emergence delirium (10 vs. 37.5%), moderate-to-severe pain (37.5 vs. 80%), and postoperative fentanyl rescue (2.5 vs. 20%; all p < 0.05).The addition of a TAP block significantly improved surgical conditions during pediatric LHR under an NMB-free general anesthesia strategy, while attenuating stress responses and enhancing postoperative recovery quality.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Health Technology Assessment (HTA) is widely used for evidence-informed priority setting in Thailand and has been integrated into pharmaceutical reimbursement decision-making through the National List of Essential Medicines (NLEM). However, its broader contributions have not been systematically assessed.We retrospectively analyzed 68 completed economic evaluations conducted between 2010 and 2018 using an adapted Payback Framework across five dimensions of impact: informing policy, knowledge production, capacity building, health sector benefit, and an economic dimension assessed separately for approved and rejected items using Net Monetary Benefit (NMB).The principal finding concerns the economic dimension. Among 21 approved technologies, 12 (57.1%) had negative NMB at the national cost-effectiveness threshold, suggesting that adoption would not have been supported on cost-effectiveness grounds alone. Nevertheless, each of these approvals included a structured non-cost-effectiveness justification in committee deliberations, all of which mapped to recognized multi-criteria decision analysis domains, including severity, unmet clinical need, rarity, lack of alternatives, and standard-of-care positioning. This provides empirical evidence that deliberative multi-criteria reasoning operates in routine reimbursement practice in an institutionalized LMIC HTA-to-reimbursement pathway. Among 47 rejected items, 85.1% had positive modeled NMB under a non-adoption sign convention, indicating that non-adoption was consistent with efficient resource use at the threshold. The four categorical dimensions, on a 0-4 ordinal scale, characterized the cohort along complementary axes: informing policy (mean 3.34), health sector benefit (mean 2.54), capacity building (mean 1.97), and knowledge production (mean 1.87).These findings suggest that HTA in Thailand contributes to disciplined, transparent multi-criteria priority setting. Aggregate NMB was concentrated in a few large-population, lifetime-horizon studies (14 accounting for 93.6% of the lifetime-horizon total), best interpreted as a descriptive summary rather than a uniform signal. The analytic approach may other insights for other low- and middle-income countries institutionalizing HTA within structured reimbursement systems.Copyright © 2026 Thathong, Udomaksorn, Kessomboon, Nerapusee, Leelahavarong and Sakulbumrungsil.
Sugammadex has recently been approved globally for use in pediatric patients aged ≥ 2 years. This meta-analysis with trial sequential analysis (TSA) evaluated the efficacy and safety of sugammadex for reversal of neuromuscular blockade (NMB) in pediatric patients.PubMed, EMBASE, the Cochrane Library, Web of Science, Scopus, KoreaMed, and ClinicalTrials.gov were searched from inception to December 31, 2023. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating sugammadex in pediatric patients were included. Efficacy outcomes were time to recovery to a train-of-four (TOF) ratio ≥ 0.9 and extubation time. Safety outcomes included overall post-anesthetic adverse events, bradycardia, tachycardia, postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV), recurarization, and desaturation. Data were analyzed using RevMan, and TSA was performed using Copenhagen Trial Unit software.A total of 21 RCTs (n=1,394 pediatric patients) were included in the study. Time to TOF ratio ≥ 0.9 was significantly shorter with sugammadex than with control (neostigmine or placebo) for both 2 mg/kg (mean difference [95% confidence interval], -6.03 [-7.85 to -4.21] min) and 4 mg/kg (-30.06 [-37.58 to -22.55] min). The extubation time was shorter with sugammadex (-14.26 [-17.22 to -11.30] min). The TSA for both efficacy outcomes indicated that the required information size had been reached, suggesting that additional trials are unlikely to change the efficacy conclusions. PONV, tachycardia, and desaturation occurred less frequently with sugammadex, whereas the overall post-anesthetic adverse events, recurarization, and bradycardia were comparable.Sugammadex was associated with faster and more effective reversal of rocuronium-induced NMB in pediatric patients.
Although biportal endoscopic spine surgery (BESS) has shown clinical benefits for lumbar degenerative diseases, comprehensive cost-utility analyses comparing BESS with microscopic spine surgery (MSS) remain limited.We aimed to compare the cost-effectiveness of BESS and MSS for lumbar degenerative diseases from a healthcare provider's perspective using quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) as the effectiveness measure.This economic evaluation was conducted alongside two multicenter, prospective, blinded, randomized controlled trials (ENDO-BH for lumbar disc herniation and ENDO-BS for lumbar spinal stenosis) at six tertiary hospitals in South Korea.Overall, 220 patients aged 20-80 years requiring single-level lumbar surgery were randomized to the BESS or MSS groups, and 187 patients with complete 12-month follow-up data were included in the analysis (BESS, 96; MSS, 91).The primary outcome was the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio expressed as cost per QALY gained. Secondary outcomes included net monetary benefit (NMB) and probability of cost-effectiveness at the Korean willingness-to-pay (WTP) threshold. QALYs were calculated using the area under the curve of EQ-5D-5L utility values measured at baseline, 2 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months postoperatively.Costs were measured from the healthcare provider's perspective using institutional billing data adjusted to Korean won (KRW). Non-parametric bootstrapping (5,000 iterations) was performed to estimate uncertainty, and cost-effectiveness acceptability curves were constructed.The mean 1-year QALYs were 0.823 ± 0.079 for BESS and 0.801 ± 0.112 for MSS. The total costs were USD 3,028 for BESS and USD 3,080 for MSS. Confidence intervals for incremental costs and QALYs crossed zero. At the WTP threshold of USD 21,429 (30,000,000 KRW) per QALY, the probability that BESS would be cost-effective was 94.9%.BESS is a cost-effective alternative to MSS for treating lumbar degenerative diseases, with a cost-effectiveness probability of 94.9% at the WTP threshold during the 12-month follow-up. Neither technique showed a statistically significant advantage in terms of cost or QALYs, indicating that BESS can be adopted without increasing direct medical costs.I.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Organic aerosol (OA) in the atmosphere exists in liquid, semisolid, or solid states, controlled by molecular properties and environmental conditions. However, regional and global models typically assume that OA exists exclusively in the liquid phase. We develop a source-specific OA phase-state model that enables key heterogeneous processes, including gas-particle partitioning, reactive uptake, and ice particle nucleation, to be explicitly phase-state-dependent. Our simulations show that globally more than 70% of surface OA exists in a semisolid state, consistent with observations (r = 0.9, NMB = -15%). OA viscosity is higher over continental midlatitude regions and increases with altitude, with little to no liquid phase above 2.5 km due to generally lower temperatures and relative humidity, compared to the surface. The phase state substantially slows gas-particle partitioning and uptake while enhancing OA removal at higher altitudes, where solid-state OA can act as ice-nucleating particles. Consequently, global annual mean surface OA concentrations decrease by 28%, while concentrations at 7 km increase by 8%, leading to a 36% reduction in the vertical OA concentration gradient, with a modest decrease in the global OA burden (2.64 Tg to 2.32 Tg). Incorporating the OA phase state improves agreement with observed vertical OA profiles from both near-source (EMERGE-AS: r from 0.92 to 0.93 and NMB from 136% to 75%) and remote (ATom: r from 0.3 to 0.6 and NMB from 122% to 96%) aircraft campaigns.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42561665 is a review article
Diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-D) is characterized by diarrhea and is often accompanied by depression, abdominal symptoms, and emotional comorbidities. Preclinical and clinical studies have shown that dysfunction of the brain-gut axis is a key pathogenic factor in IBS-D, yet the specific mechanisms remain unclear. Saikosaponin D (SSD), a major bioactive component of Bupleurum chinense DC., exhibits anti-inflammatory, antidepressant, and antitumor activities, with multi-target and multi-pathway interactions.Acetic acid and restraint stress induced an IBS-D mouse model. SSD (purity ≥ 98%, Macklin Inc.) was administered orally at low, medium, and high doses (5, 10, 20 mg/kg). Visceral sensitivity, inflammatory status, intestinal barrier function, HPA axis activity, and gut microbiota composition were systematically evaluated using behavioral tests, Western blot, qRT-PCR, and 16S rRNA sequencing.SSD significantly alleviated visceral hypersensitivity and depression-like behavior, inhibited the peripheral HMGB1-TLR4/NF-κB inflammatory pathway, and restored intestinal barrier integrity. SSD also downregulated hypothalamic Nesfatin-1/CRH/p-CREB expression, suppressed hyperactivation of the stress-related HPA neuroendocrine axis, and reshaped the gut microbial community structure (β-diversity). Network pharmacology analysis suggested that SSD targets were significantly enriched in brain-gut axis-related pathways.The present results indicate that SSD could ameliorate IBS-D by synergistically regulating peripheral inflammation, central stress, and intestinal microbes via the brain-gut-microbiota axis, providing experimental evidence for its potential application in TCM-based treatment.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42557175
This study investigated whether gasdermin E (GSDME) deficiency attenuates caerulein/lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced severe acute pancreatitis (SAP) in mice. Wild-type (WT) and Gsdme-knockout (KO) mice were assigned to PBS or caerulein/LPS groups. SAP was induced by repeated intraperitoneal caerulein injections for 2 consecutive days followed by a single LPS injection. Pancreatic injury was assessed by body weight change, pancreas-to-body weight ratio, serum amylase and lipase, and histopathology. Inflammatory responses were evaluated by serum cytokines, serum and pancreatic IL-33, HMGB1 subcellular distribution, and MPO/F4/80 immunohistochemistry. Cell death and gasdermin pathway activation were assessed by TUNEL staining and Western blotting. Compared with WT mice subjected to caerulein/LPS challenge, Gsdme-deficient mice showed less body weight loss, lower histopathological scores, and attenuated systemic inflammatory responses. Serum and pancreatic IL-33 levels, HMGB1 nuclear-to-cytoplasmic translocation, and circulating HMGB1 were also reduced in KO mice. Consistently, pancreatic MPO- and F4/80-positive inflammatory cell infiltration, TUNEL positivity, and the cleaved caspase-3/total caspase-3 ratio were reduced in KO mice. Cleaved and full-length GSDME were absent in KO pancreatic tissues, whereas caerulein/LPS treatment increased cleaved GSDME levels in WT mice. The cleaved caspase-1/total caspase-1 ratio and cleaved GSDMD expression increased after caerulein/LPS challenge in both genotypes, but neither was further elevated in KO mice, indicating no detectable compensatory upregulation of the canonical caspase-1/GSDMD pathway at the examined time point. Collectively, Gsdme deficiency alleviated caerulein/LPS-induced pancreatic injury and systemic inflammation, indicating that the caspase-3/GSDME axis contributes importantly, but not exclusively, to experimental SAP.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42553204 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42549541 is a review article
Despite the established importance of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) in redox biology, strategies to modulate its endogenous levels remain largely unexplored. Here, we show that a keratin fraction (KF) obtained from natural sources modulates H2S homeostasis and protein redox state through sulfhydration. Chemoproteomic analysis identified keratin 2 (K2; UniProtKB P25691, keratin, type II microfibrillar, component 5) as the most hyperreactive keratin toward sulfhydration. Oral administration of K2 to mice alleviated lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammatory fever and led to the generation of K2-derived peptides (K2Ps) and their sulfhydrated form (K2P-SSH) in the intestine. Compared with K2Ps, K2P-SSH showed enhanced anti-inflammatory and antioxidant activities and promoted widespread protein sulfhydration. Mechanistically, K2P-SSH induced sulfhydration of high-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) at Cys23 and Cys106, which was associated with reduced disulfide bond formation and dimerization, impaired interaction with toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), and attenuation of downstream inflammatory signaling. Taken together, this study reveals a previously unrecognized role of K2 in converting H2S into protective sulfhydration signals and identifies K2P-SSH as a bioactive intermediate that alleviates oxidative-inflammatory stress via sulfhydration of HMGB1 at Cys23 and Cys106.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a malignancy closely linked to Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection, and its progression is intricately associated with remodeling of the tumor microenvironment (TME). However, the role of EBV-associated extracellular vesicles (EVs), particularly those containing high mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), in NPC development remains poorly understood.This study utilized multiomics approaches to investigate the role of HMGB1-containing EVs (HMGB1-EVs) derived from EBV-associated NPC cells. Serum EVs from NPC patients were analyzed for HMGB1 content, and their diagnostic performance was evaluated. Mechanistic studies were performed to elucidate the regulation of HMGB1-EV biogenesis and their functional effects on immune cells within the TME.HMGB1-EVs exhibited high sensitivity and specificity for NPC diagnosis (AUC = 0.83), with significantly elevated HMGB1 levels detected in serum EVs from NPC patients. These levels were strongly associated with tumor stage, EBV-DNA load, and metastasis risk (AUC = 0.9), suggesting their potential as liquid biopsy biomarkers. Mechanistically, EBV infection induced Rab26 expression, facilitating the release of EV-associated HMGB1. In the TME, HMGB1-EVs were associated with an immunosuppressive macrophage phenotype by upregulating PD-L1 expression on macrophages via PLGRKT.This study reveals the molecular mechanism by which EBV-associated HMGB1-EVs may contribute to NPC progression and potential immune evasion. HMGB1-EVs hold promise as both diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets, offering novel insights into the precision management of NPC.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
This study aimed to investigate the differences in the ameliorative effects and underlying mechanisms of Buyang Huanwu Decoction(BHD) and its different ethanol elution fractions on pulmonary fibrosis(PF). The content of amygdalin, formononetin, kaempferol, ferulic acid and paeoniflorin in the drug-containing sera of BHD and its different fractions were determined using ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem quadrupole mass spectrometry. A rat model of PF was established by intratracheal instillation of bleomycin(BLM). The rats were divided into seven groups: a control group, a BLM group, a prednisone acetate(PA) group, a BHD group, a 30% ethanol elution fraction(Fr30) group, a 50% ethanol elution fraction(Fr50) group, and a 90% ethanol elution fraction(Fr90) group. All treatments were administered continuously for 21 days. The degrees of lung inflammation and fibrosis were observed by HE and Masson staining. The hydroxyproline(HYP) levels in lung tissue were determined using a HYP assay kit. The levels of interleukin-1β(IL-1β), interleukin-6(IL-6), interleukin-10(IL-10), tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), and high mobility group box 1 protein(HMGB1) in lung tissue were determined using ELISA kits. The levels of total superoxide dismutase(T-SOD), malondialdehyde(MDA) and glutathione peroxidase(GSH-PX) in lung tissue were determined using corresponding commercial kits. Immunofluorescence staining and Western blot were used to detect the levels of epithelial-mesenchymal transition(EMT)-related proteins in lung tissue. RT-qPCR and Western blot were employed to determine the mRNA and protein levels of factors associated with the transforming growth factor-β1(TGF-β1)/Sma and Mad-related protein(Smad) pathway in lung tissue. The results showed that amygdalin was detected in the drug-containing sera of all groups, with the highest content in the Fr30 group and the lowest in the Fr90 group. Formononetin and kaempferol were detected in the BHD, Fr50, and Fr90 groups, with the highest content in the Fr50 group and the lowest in the Fr90 group. Ferulic acid was detected in all groups, with the highest content in the BHD group and the lowest in the Fr30 group. Paeoniflorin was only detected in the BHD and Fr30 groups, with similar content. Compared with the BLM group, the levels of HYP, TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β, HMGB1, and MDA decreased in all treatment groups, while the levels of IL-10, T-SOD, and GSH-PX increased. However, there was no statistical significance in the changes of T-SOD level in the Fr30 group and HYP and IL-10 levels in the Fr90 group compared with the BLM group. Immunofluorescence staining showed a marked decrease in the protein expression of α-smooth muscle actin(α-SMA) in the lung tissue of the BHD, Fr30, Fr50, and Fr90 groups. Western blot analysis showed that the expression of epithelial cadherin(E-cadherin) significantly increased, while α-SMA and vimentin protein expressions significantly decreased in the lung tissue of the BHD, Fr30, Fr50, and Fr90 groups. RT-qPCR and Western blot analysis revealed that the mRNA and protein levels of TGF-β1 in the BHD and Fr30 groups significantly decreased, the phosphorylation(p)-Smad3/Smad3 ratio in all treatment groups significantly decreased, and the mRNA and protein levels of Smad7 in the BHD, Fr30 and Fr50 groups significantly increased. In conclusion, BHD and its different ethanol elution fractions may ameliorate BLM-induced PF in rats by inhibiting the TGF-β1/Smad pathway, with the Fr30 and Fr50 fractions showing better ameliorative effects.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42542394
Histopathological growth patterns (HGPs) have emerged as prognostic and predictive biomarkers in colorectal liver metastases (CLM). The desmoplastic/encapsulating HGP (EHGP) is associated with improved survival after surgery, whereas the replacement HGP (RHGP) is associated with poorer outcomes. However, HGPs can only be reliably assessed postoperatively, limiting their use as preoperative biomarkers. A deeper molecular understanding of HGPs could inform biomarker development and therapeutic strategies, including approaches to promote EHGP.We applied in situ sequencing (ISS), an image-based spatial transcriptomics method, to map RNA expression in CLM tissue. Two custom gene panels (150 and 175 genes) were analysed in a chemonaïve cohort of resected CLM tissue from 19 patients with EHGP and RHGP.Distinct molecular programmes characterised the two patterns. RHGP was associated with damaged SAA1+ hepatocytes, KRT18+ neoplastic cells, and bifunctional hepatocyte-cholangiocyte cells. EHGP showed interferon-γ signalling, cytotoxic T-cell infiltration, and a fibrotic capsule with zonation-specific features: hepatic stellate cell activation, angiogenesis, and immune recruitment on the liver-facing side, and cancer-associated fibroblasts on the tumour-facing side.These differences imply that growth patterns emerge from tumour-host driven interactions. They reveal new molecular features of the metastatic niche. These insights may inform the search for novel treatment strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42489855 is a review article
Silent corticotroph adenomas (SCAs) represent a high-risk subtype of pituitary neuroendocrine tumors, characterized by significant clinical heterogeneity and unclear pathogenesis. The multimicrocystic sign is a typical radiological feature of SCAs; however, its biological significance remains unclear. Here, we show that the characteristics of cystic changes reflect tumor evolutionary stages and are correlated with invasiveness and proliferative activity. We performed multi-omics analysis to identify key molecular drivers and revealed that serum amyloid A1 (SAA1) is highly expressed in microcystic tumors corresponding to the bone invasion stage. Our results demonstrate that SAA1 activates the TLR4/NF-κB pathway in macrophages, promoting pro-inflammatory macrophage polarization, TNF-α and CSF-1 secretion, and osteoclast differentiation. Spatial transcriptomics confirmed a significant correlation between the proportion of SAA1+ tumor cells and that of TNF-α+ macrophages. Serum amyloid A (SAA) levels in serum exhibited strong diagnostic value for SCAs. These findings highlight the potential clinical and biological significance of cyst size in SCAs and uncover a novel mechanism by which SAA1 drives tumor bone invasiveness through macrophage-mediated osteoclast differentiation. Our findings highlight that serum SAA levels may serve as a promising biomarker for the preoperative identification of SCAs, advancing our understanding of SCA heterogeneity.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press and Science Press on behalf of the Beijing Institute of Genomics, Chinese Academy of Sciences / China National Center for Bioinformation and Genetics Society of China.
Depression is one of the most prevalent psychiatric disorders worldwide, yet its pathogenesis remains unclear. Here, we aimed to investigate the effects of formyl peptide receptor 2 (FPR2), a key regulator of innate immunity and inflammation, on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced depression-related behaviors in mice after intraperitoneal administration, and to elucidate its regulatory mechanisms in microglia. FPR2 knockout (Fpr2-/-) significantly attenuated LPS-induced depressive and anxiety-like behaviors in mice. LPS markedly increased FPR2 expression in microglia of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and hippocampus, while only a minimal increase was observed in neurons. FPR2 deficiency alleviated LPS-induced microglial activation and reduced neuronal synaptic alterations. RNA sequencing and validation experiments confirmed that FPR2 deletion substantially decreased LPS-induced microglial NLRP3 inflammasome activation and IL-1β levels in the brain. Mechanistically, FPR2 regulated downstream NLRP3 activation by modulating CSF1, and FPR2/CSF1 activation was governed by its upstream ligand, serum amyloid A (SAA). Analysis of public clinical datasets revealed that SAA1 levels were significantly upregulated in the orbital ventral PFC of patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) and in the plasma of patients with late-life depression. These findings demonstrate that the SAA/FPR2/CSF1/NLRP3 pathway mediates LPS-induced depressive-like behaviors by regulating microglial activation and neuroinflammation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Identifying serum biomarkers that accurately reflect the progression of coronary artery disease (CAD) remains a major challenge. Integrative proteomic and metabolomic profiling can provide novel insights into disease pathogenesis and improve clinical prediction. We conducted a four-phase study. In the discovery phase, serum from 40 patients (controls, stable CAD, and acute coronary syndrome (ACS)) was analyzed using data-independent acquisition (DIA) proteomics and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS)/gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) metabolomics to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and metabolites. In the verification phase, selected DEPs were validated by parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) in an independent 40-patient cohort. In the derivation phase, six validated proteins were measured by ELISA in 207 angina patients to assess their association with coronary obstruction (≥ 50% stenosis). In the validation phase, a support vector machine (SVM) model incorporating clinical risk factors and these biomarkers was developed in the derivation cohort and tested in an independent 97-patient cohort. Model performance was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves and decision curve analysis. Coronary obstruction is defined as ≥ 50% luminal diameter stenosis in at least one major coronary artery on angiography. Proteomic analysis identified 97 DEPs, and metabolomic profiling revealed 322 DEMs (including 289 from LC-MS and 33 from GC-MS analyses). Seven proteins showed consistent changes in both DIA and PRM validation. Among these, thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1) was significantly upregulated in stable CAD compared with controls, while serum amyloid A1 (SAA1) was markedly elevated in ACS compared with stable CAD. In an independent angina cohort (n = 207), serum levels of TSP-1 and SAA1 were significantly higher in patients with coronary obstruction. Multivariate logistic regression adjusted for conventional cardiovascular risk factors (including age, sex, homocysteine, and other clinical variables) demonstrated that TSP-1 remained independently associated with coronary artery occlusion (OR = 1.424, 95% CI 1.057-1.918, P = 0.020). A support vector machine (SVM) model incorporating conventional clinical risk factors was constructed, and the addition of TSP-1 and SAA1 significantly improved diagnostic performance for CAD severity (AUC = 0.919 in derivation, 0.992 in validation). In conclusion, our dual-omics approach identified novel biomarkers and pathways in CAD progression. The SVM-based prediction model offers a promising non-invasive tool for early CAD detection, potentially reducing unnecessary invasive procedures.© 2026. The Author(s).
Plasma proteomics may identify host-response signatures in sepsis, but it is unclear whether extracellular vesicle (EV)-enriched plasma provides distinct or redundant information compared with plasma. We compared paired plasma and EV-enriched plasma proteomes in critically ill patients with sepsis and critically ill non-sepsis controls (CINS).In this prospective observational study, paired plasma and EV-enriched plasma samples were analyzed from 56 critically ill adults, including 40 patients with sepsis and 16 CINS patients. Protein abundance was quantified using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Analyses compared proteomic depth, protein overlap, global concordance between compartments, and differential protein abundance between CINS and sepsis. Exploratory Gene Ontology enrichment was performed as a supplementary analysis.EV-enriched plasma expanded proteomic detection, identifying 2,476 filtered proteins compared with 506 in plasma. Only 386 proteins were detected in both compartments, while 2,090 were unique to EV-enriched plasma and 120 were unique to plasma. Among shared proteins, plasma and EV-enriched plasma showed modest global concordance across critically ill patients (Spearman ρ = 0.322, p = 9.19 x 10 -11 ), with similar findings in sepsis alone. Differential abundance analysis identified 11 sepsis-associated proteins in plasma and 22 in EV-enriched plasma. Only SAA1, SAA2, and IGFBP6 were significant in both compartments. Exploratory pathway analysis supported acute-phase and inflammatory enrichment in plasma sepsis-associated proteins, while EV-enriched signals were directionally plausible but did not meet prespecified FDR thresholds.Plasma and EV-enriched plasma proteomics capture related but nonredundant sepsis-associated host-response information in critically ill patients.
Colitis-associated liver injury rarely causes acute mortality, but whether alcohol and a high-fat diet (HFD) aggravate hepatic injury during colitis remains unclear. Here, dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitic mice were exposed to alcohol, HFD, or both. Compared with DSS alone, combined HFD and alcohol exposure (DSSHA) caused greater body-weight loss, poorer body condition, and reduced survival. These effects were linked mainly to liver rather than intestinal deterioration, as shown by an increased liver/body-weight ratio, elevated serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST), and severe hepatic steatosis, whereas colon length, colon weight, and intestinal histological injury were not further aggravated. Mechanistically, alcohol-HFD co-exposure impaired the gut-liver axis, reduced intestinal tight-junction proteins, increased gut permeability and circulating lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and promoted hepatic macrophage and neutrophil infiltration with increased interleukin-6 (IL-6). Transcriptomics identified serum amyloid A1 (SAA1) as a highly upregulated acute-phase gene and revealed Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) pathway enrichment. TLR4 inhibition TAK-242 significantly improved survival and attenuated liver injury. Multi-omics further showed increased hepatic cortisol and corticosterone, which cooperated with IL-6 to induce SAA1 expression in HepG2 cells. Thus, an IL-6/glucocorticoid-SAA1-TLR4 axis drives alcohol-HFD-aggravated liver injury in colitis and may represent a therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a highly aggressive cancer and was ranked among the top seven leading causes of cancer-related deaths in South Africa in 2020. Highlighting the urgent need for ongoing research to identify reliable biomarkers to improve clinical outcomes. This study compared the plasma proteomes of patients with PDAC, those with benign biliary pathologies (BBP), and healthy controls (HC). We used Mag-Net, a magnetic-bead-based method that enriches membrane-bound vesicles. Comparative analyses identified distinct and overlapping dysregulated proteins between PDAC, BBP, and HC. PDAC showed enrichment for epithelial-mesenchymal transition, complement activation, hypoxia, glycolysis, and extracellular matrix remodeling pathways, consistent with aggressive tumor biology. Proteins including SPP1, THBS2, PTX3, FBLN2, SDC1, CTSS, and VCAN were significantly increased in PDAC, with LRG1 showing the strongest association with disease severity. Proteins, namely GPNMB, H4C1, SAA1, and CCDC47, demonstrated progressive upregulation across disease comparisons, suggesting potential relevance to disease progression. These findings demonstrate that plasma proteomics provides discriminatory molecular insights and supports the development of population-relevant biomarker panels. While several candidate proteins show promise for inclusion in multianalyte panels, further validation in larger cohorts is necessary to establish their diagnostic and translational utility for early detection, risk stratification, and improved differential diagnosis of PDAC.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Evidence from randomised controlled trials shows that vitamin C (VC) supplementation may improve cardiometabolic health outcomes in people with type 2 diabetes (T2D). Plasma proteomics may help to further enhance our understanding of VC's therapeutic effects and biological mechanisms in T2D. Therefore, our aim was to explore the effects of VC supplementation on the plasma proteome in people with T2D.A double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial was undertaken in people with T2D, who were administered 1000 mg/day VC or placebo for 4 months. Plasma proteins in 26 participants (22 male, 4 female, age 62.6 ± 6.5 years, HbA1c 60 ± 11 mmol/mol [7.6 ± 0.7%]) were quantified by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry with data-independent acquisition. Differential protein expression was assessed for VC post-supplementation vs. control [pooling of all non-active conditions].Twelve proteins were significantly downregulated and three were upregulated following VC supplementation (|log2-fold change [FC]| ≥ 0.5; false discovery rate<0.05). These included proteins with functions in innate immunity, carbohydrate digestion, unfolded protein binding, and muscle contraction. Protein candidates that had the greatest magnitude decrease (|log2-FC| > 1) with VC supplementation were alpha-amylase 1 (AMY1), heat shock protein 75 kDa (TRAP1), myosin-1 (MYH1), and serum amyloid protein A1 (SAA1). Pathway enrichment revealed underrepresentation of unfolded protein binding, ATP binding, attenuation phase, and the innate immune system following VC supplementation. TRAP1, alpha-actin-1, Heat shock 70 kDa protein-1, and CD166 antigen were associated with previously reported improved blood-pressure outcomes following VC supplementation.VC supplementation significantly altered abundance of numerous proteins in plasma, with functions relating to the innate immune system, dietary carbohydrate digestion, and protein folding chaperone activity. We identified novel proteins responsive to VC supplementation and protein-clinical improvement correlations in people with T2D that require further exploration to understand their biological significance.© 2026. Crown.
Renal transplant patients (RTPs) receiving immunomodulatory therapy are at increased risk of severe complications from COVID-19 and other infections. This study aimed to identify immune and proteomic biomarkers associated with COVID-19 in RTPs to improve disease characterization and support future diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.Peripheral blood samples from RTPs with COVID-19 infection, uninfected RTPs, and healthy controls were analyzed using cytokine gene expression profiling and label-free global quantitative proteomics. Differential cytokine expression and proteomic alterations were evaluated across study groups and according to disease severity and recovery status.Cytokine levels differed significantly between healthy controls and COVID-19-affected RTPs (p = 0.04), whereas no significant difference was observed between healthy controls and uninfected RTPs (p = 0.92). Within the RTP-COVID group, cytokine expression varied according to disease severity (p = 0.04) but not between acute and recovery phases (p = 0.39). Proteomic profiling identified eighteen altered protein targets. Eight proteins (SERPINF2, SAA1, HP, PLG, SERPINA3, CFHR1, HRG, and C4A) were associated with RTP-COVID and may represent candidate biomarkers of COVID-19 risk in RTPs. Ten proteins (PLXNA2, CP, A2M, KNG1, CLU, SERPINA5, APOA4, ITIH2, ITIH1, and VTN) were uniquely differentially expressed between RTPs and healthy controls but not between RTP-COVID patients and controls.These findings provide preliminary insights into immune and proteomic dysregulation associated with COVID-19 in RTPs and identify potential biomarker candidates for disease risk and severity assessment. However, the small sample size and inclusion of only surviving patients limit the generalizability of the findings. Validation in larger and more diverse cohorts is warranted.Copyright © 2026 Alaiya, Al-Mozaini, Shinwari, Alzayed, Alsharif, Allam, Bakheet, Alharbi, Alotaibi, Idris, Obeid, Alshukairi, Márquez-Méndez, Cerda-Flores and Almojalli.
Migraine is one of the most disabling neurological diseases globally; however, a significant proportion of patients do not respond to current treatments, or treatment efficacy diminishes over time, highlighting the need to identify additional molecular candidates for further investigation. Recent studies have increasingly focused on the role of neuro-immune interactions in migraine. This study aimed to identify peripheral immune-related candidate genes associated with NAD+ metabolism-related transcriptional features in migraine through integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic analyses. Using the PRJEB40032 dataset, samples were stratified according to ssGSEA-derived NAD+ metabolism scores, followed by differential expression analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis and protein-protein interaction network construction. LASSO regression, SVM-RFE, and XGBoost were subsequently applied to prioritize candidate genes. CXCL8, CXCR4, CXCL1, and TNFAIP3 showed cross-algorithm consistency and were subsequently incorporated into an exploratory nomogram, which exhibited apparent discriminatory performance within the PRJEB40032 discovery cohort. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that these genes were associated with immune and inflammatory pathways, including IL-17, NF-κB, TNF, and Toll-like receptor signaling. Immune cell-composition analysis indicated significantly increased estimated abundances or activity scores for NK cells, mast cells, eosinophils, and neutrophils in migraine samples, with positive associations between the prioritized candidate genes and pro-inflammatory immune features. Single-cell RNA sequencing further showed that CXCL1 and CXCL8 were predominantly expressed in monocytes, while TNFAIP3 and CXCR4 were widely expressed across various immune cell types. qPCR assessment in a migraine mouse model showed group-dependent expression alterations in the functionally related murine CXCL1/CXCR2 axis. Overall, this study prioritized peripheral immune-related candidate genes associated with migraine and NAD⁺ metabolism-related transcriptional features, providing exploratory evidence for a potential link among systemic immune alterations, NAD⁺ metabolism-related processes, and migraine.© 2026. The Author(s).
Intervertebral disc (IVD) degeneration is associated with severe clinical symptoms including chronic back pain. Galectins are a family of carbohydrate-binding proteins, some of which can induce functional disease markers in IVD cells and other musculoskeletal tissues. Galectin-4 and -8 were shown to trigger disease-promoting activity in chondrocytes, but their effects on IVD cells have not been investigated yet.IVD specimens from 36 patients with spondylosis, spondylolisthesis, and scoliosis were assessed immunohistochemically for the presence of galectin-4 and -8. The degrees of radiological (Pfirrmann grade) and histopathological (Rutges score) degeneration of all specimens were correlated with histological galectin scores. To assess galectin functions, separate cell cultures of annulus fibrosus (AF) and nucleus pulposus (NP) (n = 21) were established. Cell cultures were treated with recombinant galectin-4, -8 (24 μg/mL), or Interleukin-1β (IL-1β) (10 ng/mL) and analyzed using RT-qPCR and In-Cell Western (ICW). Potential binding sites for galectins including sialylated N-glycans and LacdiNAc structures were determined in AF and NP cells using liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS).The immunohistochemical presence of galectin-4 in IVD specimens correlated with histopathological and clinical degeneration scores of patients, whereas galectin-8 did not show significant correlations. Both galectins were detected across IVD compartments except for the endplate. In vitro, both galectins activated the nuclear factor-kB pathway and induced functional disease markers (Interleukin-8 (CXCL8) and matrix metalloproteinase-3 (MMP3) mRNA). NP cells were more responsive to galectins and IL-1β than AF cells, indicating region-specific differences in galectin sensitivity.This study identifies galectin-4 as a novel molecular player in the pathogenesis of IVD degeneration.© 2026 The Author(s). JOR Spine published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Orthopaedic Research Society.
Helicobacter pylori (H.pylori) infection is a primary driver of chronic gastric inflammation and carcinogenesis, yet the molecular networks bridging bacterial infection and malignant transformation are not fully characterized. This study aimed to identify H.pylori-associated hub genes through integrated systems biology and to functionally validate their roles in gastric cancer progression.Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was applied to GEO datasets (GSE60427 and GSE60662) to identify phenotype-associated modules. Genomic alterations, promoter methylation, and immune infiltration patterns were analyzed using TCGA-STAD, cBioPortal, and UALCAN. Experimental validation was performed in AGS and MKN45 cells. Two independent 2 × 2 factorial designs were used to evaluate hub-gene knockdown and overexpression separately in the presence or absence of H. pylori infection. Mechanistic insights were gained through virulence factor mutants (Δ-cagA and Δ-vacA), pathway inhibitors, and dual-luciferase reporter assays for miRNA-targeting validation.WGCNA identified CXCL8, CXCL1, CCL20, and MMP1 as central hub genes, all of which exhibited significantly elevated mRNA expression in gastric cancer tissues and cell lines. These genes exhibited frequent copy number amplifications and significant promoter hypomethylation. Functional assays showed that hub-gene silencing attenuated H. pylori-associated proliferation, migration, and invasion, whereas hub-gene overexpression promoted these malignant phenotypes and further enhanced the effects associated with infection. Mechanistically, H.pylori infection upregulates these genes via a CagA-dependent activation of the NF-κB and MAPK signaling pathways. Furthermore, specific miRNAs (e.g., miR-302c-3p, miR-203a-3p) were identified as direct post-transcriptional regulators of this axis.CXCL8, CXCL1, CCL20, and MMP1 constitute a unified transcriptional axis driven by H.pylori infection that promotes malignant progression. This CagA-responsive gene set serves as a robust biomarker panel for gastric cancer prognosis and represents a promising therapeutic target for disrupting the infection-inflammation-cancer sequence.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Paraquat (PQ), a highly toxic herbicide that causes fatal pulmonary injury, has no specific clinical antidotes, mainly due to incomplete understanding of its pathogenic mechanisms. Inhalational exposure to PQ is the primary route of toxicity among agricultural workers. However, conventional experimental models fail to accurately replicate the physiological characteristics of the alveolar-capillary barrier and the air-liquid interface (ALI). In this study, we developed an Alveolar Microphysiological System (AMS) that co-cultures alveolar epithelial cells (EPCs) and pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells (EDCs) with ALI, effectively mimicking PQ-induced lung injury. This injury is characterized by increased permeability of the alveolar-capillary barrier, compromised intercellular junction integrity, and ultrastructural alterations. Bulk RNA sequencing, public single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), and functional validation assays revealed that PQ triggers divergent, cell-type-specific responses: activating the RAGE/NF-κB signaling pathway and pro-inflammatory programs in EPCs, while suppressing these pathways in EDCs. Furthermore, PQ treatment results in the aberrant expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (e.g., IL-1α/β, TNF-α), chemokines (e.g., CCL3/5, CXCL8/10), and growth factors (e.g., PDGF, TGF-α) in EPCs, a pattern that significantly differs from the expression profile observed in EDCs. Additionally, FPS-ZM1, a specific inhibitor of RAGE, mitigated PQ-induced barrier dysfunction by restoring normalized AMS permeability, enhancing E-cadherin expression in EPCs, and improving adherens junction integrity in EDCs. Collectively, these findings suggest that the AMS serves as a valuable translational platform for developing therapeutic strategies. Moreover, the RAGE/NF-κB signaling pathway exhibits a cell-type-specific function in pulmonary injury induced by PQ exposure under air-liquid interface conditions, indicating that modulation of the RAGE/NF-κB axis may offer a promising therapeutic avenue for managing paraquat poisoning.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Prostate cancer (PCa) is one of the most common cancers in males, and its treatment remains challenging due to the tumor microenvironment (TME) with immunosuppressive properties and limited response to anti-PD-1 therapy. Gut microbiota-derived metabolites have recently emerged as modulators of cancer immunometabolism, however, their role in PCa progression and immunotherapy is poorly understood. Here we found that indole-3-lactic acid (ILA), a metabolite produced by Lactobacillus plantarum, exerted dual anti-tumor effects on PCa cells and the TME. Mechanistically, ILA activates the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR), and the resulting AHR/ARNT heterodimer translocates into the nucleus and binds to the promoter of ASF1B. This heterodimer then recruits the HDAC1/2-NuRD complex to reduce H3K27ac levels and suppress ASF1B expression. ASF1B binds to specific residues of ENO1 via its N-terminal core domain and enhances ENO1 enzymatic activity. ILA-induced downregulation of ASF1B impairs this interaction, reduces ENO1 activity, and suppresses the PI3K/Akt pathway, thereby inhibiting the malignant phenotypes of PCa cells. Concurrently, ILA decreased CXCL8 secretion by inhibiting the PI3K/Akt/NF-κB pathway, enhancing CD8+ T cell infiltration and M1 macrophage polarization, thereby remodeling the TME. Additionally, ILA synergized with anti-PD-1 therapy to more effectively suppress tumor growth. These findings reveal a novel mechanism by which gut microbiota-derived metabolites regulate PCa progression and immunometabolism, positioning ILA as a potential therapeutic agent to improve PCa treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Advanced age and diabetes mellitus (DM) are major risk factors for severe COVID-19, associated with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), cytokine storm, and increased mortality. SARS-CoV-2 spike protein (SP) binding to angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) potentially disrupts the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), promoting angiotensin II (Ang II) accumulation and vascular dysfunction. In individuals with preexisting endothelial dysfunction (ED), such as older adults with type 2 DM (T2DM), COVID-19 may exacerbate inflammation, vascular permeability, and tissue damage. This study aimed to elucidate the mechanisms by which SP exacerbates diabetes-associated ED using an in vitro aortic endothelial-bronchial epithelial co-culture model. Serum from healthy adults and T2DM patients was used to stimulate human aortic endothelial cells (HAoECs), with or without SP. ED was assessed via reactive oxygen species (ROS), intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), and endothelial permeability. ACE2 expression and Ang II levels were measured in ACE2-transfected human bronchial epithelial cells (BEAS-2BACE2-eGFP). Combined effects on lung injury and cytokines (CXCL8, IL-1β, and IL-6) were evaluated using a co-culture system. T2DM serum significantly increased ROS (609.33 ± 108.23%; p = 0.0016), ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 expression (68.55 ± 5.47 copies/μL; p = 0.0011 and 84.77 ± 3.81 copies/μL; p < 0.0001, respectively), and permeability (3.86 × 107 ± 4.8 × 106 FU; p = 0.0119) in HAoECs. In BEAS-2BACE2-eGFP, T2DM serum significantly increased ACE2 expression (5.45 ± 1.99 copies/μL; p = 0.0089), whereas co-exposure to T2DM + SP markedly reduced ACE2 (0.97 ± 0.29 copies/μL; p = 0.0086) and elevated Ang II (111.60 ± 15.81 pg./mL; p = 0.1343). Co-treatment with T2DM + SP further exacerbated ED, driving heightened inflammation, lung epithelial injury, and cytokine release. Diabetes-associated ED synergizes with SP to aggravate vascular inflammation and lung injury, identifying adhesion molecules and pro-inflammatory cytokines as potential biomarkers, and RAS dysregulation and endothelial activation as therapeutic targets for severe COVID-19 in T2DM.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Human papillomavirus (HPV)-negative head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is known for high levels of disease recurrence and resistance to conventional fractionated radiation therapy. In an analysis of primary patient HPV-negative HNSCC biopsies from our institutional tumor bank, we observed circulating and tumor-resident monocytic myeloid-derived suppressor cells (M-MDSCs) were enriched in patient samples from recurrent HPV-negative HNSCCs relative to treatment-naïve samples. To determine if radiation exposure alters myeloid chemotaxis to the tumor site, we measured myeloid chemotactic factor transcript expression in eight cancer-associated fibroblast (CAF) and EpCAM-expressing patient-derived malignant cell lines. In malignant cell lines, radiation exposure increased transcriptional expression of CCL5 and C-X-C ligand receptor 2 (CXCR2) ligands CXCL2 and CXCL8 (IL-8). Based on this finding, we evaluated whether an antagonist of CXCR2 (SB225002) in combination with radiation blocked murine MDSC chemotaxis in vivo and in vitro. Antagonism of CXCR2 signaling with SB225002, in combination with radiation, suppressed tumor growth, improved survival, and reduced intra-tumoral macrophages in a murine MOC1 model. Additionally, radiation-induced MDSC chemotaxis was inhibited by SB225002 in a transwell assay. Together, these data suggest CXCR2 inhibition in combination with radiation has therapeutic potential for treatment of HPV-negative HNSCC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42545806 is a review article
Oral inflammatory diseases such as oral lichen planus are characterized by dysregulated chemokine production and persistent interferon-associated signaling, with JAK/STAT pathways playing a central role in epithelial-immune crosstalk. Here, we investigated whether Melissa officinalis extract (MOE), a widely used phytomedicine with incompletely defined mechanisms, modulates inflammatory signaling in oral epithelial cells. MOE composition was characterized by HPLC-HRMS, and transcriptomic, RT-qPCR, ELISA, immunofluorescence, and cell-free kinase analyses were employed to define its biological effects in HSC2 and non-transformed epithelial cells. MOE was cytocompatible and selectively attenuated interferon-associated signaling rather than broadly suppressing inflammation. It markedly reduced interferon-stimulated gene expression, including MX1/2, IFIT and OAS family members, STAT1/2, CXCL10, and GBP1, while NF-κB-dependent CXCL8 expression remained unaffected. Mechanistically, MOE reduced JAK2 activity in a cell-free assay and suppressed STAT1 phosphorylation-associated nuclear translocation, supporting modulation of canonical interferon signaling. Consistently, MOE reduced CXCL10 expression at both mRNA and protein levels, and these effects occurred independently of reactive oxygen species modulation. Chemical profiling identified several phenolic acids, among which caffeic acid showed activity in suppressing CXCL10 production. These findings identify MOE as a pathway-selective modulator of interferon-driven inflammatory responses in oral epithelial cells, provide mechanistic insight into its clinical use, and support further investigation of Melissa officinalis-derived preparations as topical strategies for targeted modulation of mucosal inflammation.Copyright © 2026 Rasheed, Panahipour, Glabonjat and Gruber.
Maternal immune adaptation during pregnancy is orchestrated by dynamic signals from the uterine microenvironment, including placental extracellular vesicles (pEVs) released into maternal circulation. EVs have emerged as key mediators of this crosstalk; however, their role in sex-specific immune modulation remains incompletely defined. Here, we investigated whether pEVs derived from term placentas induce sex-dependent changes in the phenotype, metabolism, and function of human monocytes.pEVs were isolated from 13 term uncomplicated placentas (six male-derived, M-pEVs, and seven female-derived, F-pEVs) and characterized by complementary approaches, revealing similar size distributions and concentrations, with differences in physicochemical properties and molecular cargo. Circulating monocytes from 17 non-pregnant female donors were exposed to M-pEVs or F-pEVs and analyzed for phenotypic, metabolic, and functional responses.pEVs induced distinct activation profiles depending on fetal sex. F-pEVs reduced CD11b and CD11c expression while increasing CD14, CD39 and IL-10 production. On the other hand, M-pEVs increased CD14 expression and enhanced IL-1β secretion. Both nanovesicles populations increased IL-10 and CXCL8 release and promoted a shift toward classical monocytes (CD14+CD16-) with a reduction in the intermediate subsets. Metabolic analyses revealed divergent immunometabolic programs: M-pEVs promoted lactate and reactive oxygen species production, whereas F-pEVs enhanced lactate production, fatty acid uptake, lipid droplet accumulation, and mitochondrial activity without increasing ROS. Functionally, both pEV populations increased efferocytosis, with a distinct sensitivity to metabolic inhibitors.These findings demonstrate that pEVs differentially modulate circulating monocytes according to fetal sex and support a role for fetal sex in shaping maternal immunometabolic responses.Copyright © 2026 Avalos, Sabbione, Rios, Grasso, Garcia, Aguilera, Merech, Aiello, Meller, Ramhorst, Hauk, Gori, Leirós, Vota and Paparini.
CCR2+ monocytes are recruited to sites of acute myocardial injury, where they play a critical role in clearing necrotic debris and replenishing the depleted resident macrophage population. Although this response is necessary for early tissue repair, prolonged activation of inflammatory pathways and persistent recruitment of CCR2+ monocytes have been associated with accelerated ventricular remodeling and adverse outcomes. Inhibition of CCR2 has shown promise in preclinical models of myocardial injury and represents a potential therapeutic target. Cardiosphere-derived cell extracellular vesicles (CDC-EVs) have demonstrated cardioprotective effects partly through modulation of the immune response. We investigated whether CDC-EVs regulate inflammatory monocyte trafficking through effects on CCR2 signaling. We found that CDC-EVs reduce the surface availability of CCR2 on human monocytes through an miR-146a-dependent mechanism, resulting in decreased monocyte migration toward CCL2. These findings identify a previously unrecognized mechanism by which CDC-EVs modulate CCR2-dependent monocyte trafficking and provide new insight into how EVs regulate innate immune responses after myocardial injury.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
Chronic fatty acid (FA) elevation drives metabolic dysfunction-associated liver disease (MASLD). Hepatocytes buffer transient lipid overload via coordinated adaptive mechanisms, but the temporal limits of this capacity remain undefined.We characterized early, intermediate, and prolonged hepatocellular responses to sustained lipid excess.HuH7 hepatocytes were exposed to an equimolar palmitic/oleic acid (PA/OA) mixture for 1, 14, or 28 days. Viability, lipid accumulation, stress-response pathways, insulin signaling, metabolic regulators, mitochondrial markers, [14C]-PA uptake, and exo-metabolomic profiles were assessed (n≥3/group). Data (mean ± SEM) were analyzed by two-way ANOVA with Bonferroni post hoc testing; cumulative cell death by linear regression. P<0.05 was significant.FA treatment increased lipid droplet accumulation 1.4- to 1.7-fold vs. time-matched BSA controls at all time points (p<0.001) and increased the rate of cumulative cell death ∼4.3-fold (1.556±0.083 vs. 0.365±0.054%/day, p<0.001). Exo-metabolomic PCA explained 88.5% of variance (Q2=0.758), with peak lactate release at Day 14 and progressively rising acetate through Day 28. [14C]-PA accumulation at Day 28 was ∼30% lower than Day 1 (∼800 vs. ∼500 cpm/mg protein), with a declining rather than plateauing profile between 20-60 s. By Day 28, FA-treated cells showed lower FASN (p<0.001), CD36 (p<0.05), FABP1 (p<0.001), SIRT1 (p<0.005), and CLOCK (p<0.01) protein levels, and higher CPT1A (p<0.001), pAMPK/AMPK (p<0.01), p53 (p<0.001), Bax/Bcl2 (p<0.005), and respiratory complex I-V abundance (p<0.05-p<0.001) vs. controls.Sustained PA/OA exposure induces a staged hepatocellular response, early lipid-buffering adaptation, intermediate metabolic compensation, and late decompensation, indicating that chronic lipotoxicity reflects progressive loss of regulatory coordination despite persistent metabolic adaptation.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The selection of appropriate in vitro inflammatory models is critical for mechanistic studies of neuroinflammation and the screening of anti-inflammatory therapeutics. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) combined with interferon-γ (IFN-γ) and LPS combined with adenosine triphosphate (ATP) are widely used to induce microglial inflammation; however, their distinct phenotypic characteristics and optimal applications have not been systematically compared. In this study, we combined transcriptomic profiling with functional assays to compare these two inflammatory paradigms in BV2 microglia. Our results showed that both models activated the chemokine-cytokine inflammatory network and induced the production of inflammatory mediators and chemokines, but exhibited distinct molecular and functional biases. LPS/IFN-γ stimulation preferentially upregulated genes such as Lcn2, Ccl2, Upp1, and Pim2, which are associated with innate immune activation, chemokine-mediated inflammatory responses, and cell survival signaling, and was accompanied by marked increases in NO and TNF-α production. In contrast, the LPS/ATP model preferentially upregulated genes associated with ECM/cell adhesion, inflammatory and cellular homeostatic regulation, oxidative stress, and calcium-dependent secretion, including Thbs1, Thbd, Srxn1, Syt7, and Procr. Functionally, this model exhibited more pronounced IL-1β maturation and release, relatively lower NO production, and greater mitochondrial dysfunction and cell injury. Pharmacological inhibition of NLRP3 with MCC950 significantly attenuated ATP-induced IL-1β maturation, supporting the involvement of the NLRP3 inflammasome in the LPS/ATP model. Overall, the LPS/IFN-γ model is more suitable for investigating the NO/iNOS-TNF-α axis, IFN-γ-mediated synergistic pro-inflammatory responses, and classical pro-inflammatory activation, as well as for screening anti-inflammatory agents. In contrast, the LPS/ATP model is more appropriate for studying IL-1β maturation and release, NLRP3 inflammasome activation, mitochondrial damage, and inflammation-related cell death, as well as for screening inflammasome inhibitors. Our findings provide an empirical framework for rational model selection in microglial inflammation research.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565567 is a review article
Repair of acutely injured skeletal muscle relies on an adequate inflammatory response predominated by monocyte/macrophage infiltration. The process requires injured muscles to produce C-C chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2). The present study identified fibro/adipogenic progenitors (FAPs) as the primary source of CCL2 in acutely injured muscle, where the pro-inflammatory subcluster of FAPs expanded rapidly and expressed the highest level of CCL2. FAP-specific deletion of Ccl2 largely abolished CCL2 production by acutely injured muscle, reducing monocyte/macrophage infiltration and impairing muscle regeneration. In vitro, the CCL2 expression by both mouse and human FAPs was induced by danger signal-containing muscle homogenates through Toll-like receptor signaling. The CCL2 expression by mouse FAPs was also induced by infiltrating neutrophils, partly through their secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Our findings suggest an important immune sentinel role for FAPs, as they sense muscle damage, produce CCL2 to recruit inflammatory monocytes, and promote injury repair.© 2026 The Author(s).
Down syndrome (DS) confers a developmentally rooted predisposition to both myeloid and lymphoid leukemias, particularly myeloid leukemia associated with DS (ML-DS) and acute lymphoblastic leukemia associated with DS (ALL-DS). While trisomy 21-driven gene dosage imbalance is central to this risk, DS leukemogenesis cannot be fully explained by recurrent mutations alone; it reflects a dynamic interplay between altered hematopoietic development, cell-intrinsic programs, and tissue microenvironmental cues. In this perspective, we argue that the field should move beyond cataloging cellular heterogeneity and adopt a topographic, multi-omic framework of DS leukemogenesis. We discuss how fetal niche biology shapes pre-leukemic evolution in ML-DS, including the developmental context of GATA1-mutant clones, and how therapy-driven bottlenecks may promote persistence of spatially protected residual disease in ALL-DS. We further highlight the translational potential of integrating spatially resolved transcriptomics with single-cell and protein-aware multi-omics to identify compartment-specific signaling programs and clinically actionable vulnerabilities. A spatially informed model of DS leukemia may improve biological stratification, clarify mechanisms of relapse and toxicity, and support the development of more effective and less toxic therapeutic strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Short-chain chlorinated paraffins (SCCPs), ubiquitous persistent organic pollutants, have been increasingly implicated in metabolic disorders; however, their developmental effects on hepatic lipid metabolism in offspring remain poorly understood. This study aimed to investigate whether gestational SCCPs exposure induces hepatic lipid accumulation in adult offspring and elucidate the underlying mechanisms. Pregnant C57BL/6J mice were orally administered SCCPs (0, 1, 10, or 100 mg/kg) from gestational day 0 (GD0) to GD18. At 12 weeks of age, male offspring exposed to the medium dose of SCCPs developed pronounced hepatic steatosis, as evidenced by increased hepatic and serum triglyceride levels and excessive lipid droplet accumulation, whereas female offspring exhibited no significant alterations, indicating a sex-specific and non-monotonic dose-response pattern. Mechanistically, gestational SCCPs exposure markedly upregulated key regulators involved in fatty acid uptake and triglyceride synthesis, including CD36, GPAT4, and DGAT2. In vitro, serum from medium-dose SCCPs-exposed adult male offspring induced lipid accumulation in AML12 hepatocytes, which was significantly attenuated by pharmacological inhibition of CD36. Furthermore, gestational SCCPs exposure was associated with increased PPAR-γ/CD36 pathway in vivo and in vitro, whereas pharmacological inhibition of PPAR-γ suppressed CD36 expression and alleviated lipid accumulation in hepatocytes. Collectively, these findings suggest that gestational SCCPs exposure promotes male-specific hepatic steatosis in adult offspring potentially through PPAR-γ-mediated enhancement of fatty acid uptake and triglyceride synthesis, providing new evidence that early-life SCCPs exposure can developmentally program long-term hepatic metabolic dysfunction.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
In the current study, we genetically engineered Salmonella Typhimurium to serve a dual purpose in cancer immunotherapy, simultaneously inducing apoptosis and activating anti-cancer immune responses. Tumor-residing tryptophan auxotrophic Salmonella, featuring trpA and trpE deletions, selectively inhabits the tumor microenvironment, promoting tumor-targeted delivery of therapeutic antigens such as apoptin (an apoptosis inducer) and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA; related to anti-cancer immunity), while minimizing off-target effects. The therapeutic strain had reduced endotoxic responses owing to a lack of pagL in its genome. Additionally, to enhance adaptation to the tumor microenvironment, the strain underwent consecutive passaging for over five generations, increasing its potency for tumor recognition and localization. A prokaryotic and eukaryotic dual-expression plasmid was developed by incorporating the complete apoptin open reading frame into the eukaryotic region and the CEA epitope collection associated with an MHC-II agonist peptide into the prokaryotic expression cassette. Each antigen was confirmed for successful expression at the intended sizes, with functional validation performed through in vitro cytotoxicity assessment. Mouse inoculation studies demonstrated that the Salmonella therapy significantly suppresses the progression of highly aggressive 4T1 breast cancer tumors as well as metastatic dispersion in lung, liver, and spleen tissues, fostering an anti-tumoral immune environment characterized by IFN-γ and CCL2 markers. This transformative approach to Salmonella-mediated cancer immunotherapy could pave the way for targeted treatments for immune-resistant cancers and hard-to-treat malignancies.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a major cause of heart failure and sudden cardiac death and has traditionally been regarded as a predominantly monogenic disorder. However, advances in next-generation sequencing have revealed a more complex genetic architecture with increasing recognition of oligogenic and polygenic contributions; particularly in patients presenting with extracardiac manifestations. In such cases, careful phenotypic characterization and integrative interpretation of genetic findings are essential for accurate diagnosis and management.We report the case of a 46-year-old man who presented with progressive exertional dyspnoea (the New York Heart Association class II-III). His medical history was notable for childhood-onset epilepsy, visual impairment, musculoskeletal abnormalities, and infertility. Transthoracic echocardiography demonstrated severe left ventricular dilatation with reduced ejection fraction (20%). Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging confirmed severe biventricular systolic dysfunction and revealed mid-to-basal myocardial fibrosis on late gadolinium enhancement imaging. Given the prominent multisystem involvement and exclusion of secondary causes, a syndromic cardiomyopathy was suspected. Comprehensive genetic testing identified likely pathogenic frameshift variants in the CD36 and TNXB genes, while additional variants of uncertain significance were detected in MT-TK and STXBP1. These findings suggested a potential oligogenic contribution involving pathways related to myocardial energy metabolism and extracellular matrix integrity. Guideline-directed medical therapy for heart failure with reduced ejection fraction was initiated, and the patient was enrolled in multidisciplinary follow-up with genetic counselling for first-degree relatives.This case highlights the limitations of a strictly monogenic framework in DCM and underscores the importance of considering oligogenic mechanisms in patients with syndromic features. Integrative evaluation combining detailed phenotyping, advanced cardiac imaging, and genetic analysis may provide valuable insights into complex cardiomyopathy phenotypes and support personalized clinical management.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559155 is a review article
Candida parapsilosis sensu stricto has emerged as a major cause of healthcare-associated candidemia, with increasing reports of fluconazole resistance worldwide. This resistance is most commonly associated with amino acid substitutions in Erg11p, particularly Y132F; however, regional variation in resistance mechanisms and clonal dissemination remains not fully understood. This study investigated the molecular epidemiology and genomic landscape of fluconazole-resistant C. parapsilosis in Paraná, Southern Brazil, over a 10-year period. A total of 54 resistant isolates identified between 2014 and 2024 were retrospectively analyzed; 51 viable isolates were confirmed by species identification, antifungal susceptibility testing, and microsatellite genotyping. A subset of 18 representative isolates underwent whole-genome sequencing for phylogenomic analysis. Variants in genes associated with azole resistance, including ERG11, MRR1, TAC1, CDR1, MDR1, ERG3, and ERG6, were characterized. Fluconazole resistance emerged in 2018 and increased thereafter. Phylogenomic analysis revealed two geographically structured lineages: a dominant clone circulating across multiple healthcare institutions in the Curitiba metropolitan area and a second lineage restricted to the northern region of the state. The dominant clone showed minimal genomic diversity (0-5 SNPs), consistent with long-term persistence. A conserved resistance profile was observed, with 17 of 18 sequenced isolates harboring the K143R substitution in Erg11p, while all retained the wild-type residue at position 132. The single isolate lacking ERG11 mutations carried a novel C849Y substitution in the Mrr1p regulator. These findings demonstrate the emergence and persistence of a highly clonal fluconazole-resistant C. parapsilosis lineage in Southern Brazil, characterized by a conserved K143R substitution independent of Y132F. The detection of closely related isolates across different hospitals underscores the need for regional genomic surveillance of hospital-adapted fungal pathogens.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chronic neuropathic pain is sustained by nerve injury-induced central sensitization and is characterized by both sensory and affective manifestations. However, its underlying neural circuit mechanisms remain to be fully elucidated. Here, we revealed that CaMKII-expressing neurons in the parasubthalamic nucleus (PSTN) were recruited and exhibited hyperactivity in a neuropathic pain mouse model, established via spared nerve injury of the sciatic nerve (SNI). Optogenetic and chemogenetic inhibition of PSTN CaMKII neurons alleviated hyperalgesia and induced conditioned place preference (CPP) in SNI mice, without altering pain thresholds in sham mice. Mechanistically, we demonstrated that PSTN neurons received monosynaptic glutamatergic inputs from tachykinin precursor 1 (Tac1)-expressing neurons in the lateral parabrachial nucleus (LPB), and were excited by glutamate and substance P (SP) co-released from this projection. Inhibition of the LPB-PSTN projection recapitulated the analgesic and CPP-inducing effects of direct inhibition of PSTN neurons in SNI mice. Notably, these therapeutic effects were mimicked by local administration of a neurokinin receptor 1 (NK1R) antagonist, but were reversed by intra-PSTN injection of SP. Together, this study not only establishes the involvement of the LPB-PSTN circuit and local NK1R in the pathophysiology of neuropathic pain but also demonstrates their promise as therapeutic targets.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.
Skeletal and synovial joint development involves distinct skeletal stem/progenitor populations. However, in neural crest-derived temporomandibular joint (TMJ), skeletal stem/progenitor lineage dynamics and ossification programs remain poorly defined. Here, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) on mouse mandibular cartilage at embryonic day 16.5 (E16.5), postnatal day 0 (P0), and 13 weeks to construct a high-resolution atlas of skeletal stem/progenitor populations. At embryonic and postnatal stages, the outer perichondrium contained Lgr5+Pthlh+ cells expressing Dlx5, consistent with an intramembranous ossification-associated program. In contrast, a previously uncharacterized Crabp1+ subpopulation within the inner perichondrium expressed Nrg1, Lsamp, Tac1, and Igfbp5, consistent with an early chondrogenic-associated transcriptional state. These results suggest spatially distinct ossification-associated programs and reveal the transcriptional regulation underlying TMJ development. Our findings provide a model for understanding neural crest-derived TMJ skeletal stem/progenitor cell regulation and may inform future studies of TMJ cartilage biology and regeneration strategies within this specialized tissue.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The kappa opioid receptor (KOR) has emerged as a promising, nonaddictive analgesic target, yet the neural mechanisms underlying KOR inhibition of pain are not entirely understood. Here, we provide converging evidence that KOR expressed on spinal neurons inhibits acute pain. We demonstrate that pharmacological inhibition of KOR-expressing neurons in the spinal cord blocks nocifensive behaviors. Conversely, chemogenetic activation of KOR-expressing spinal neurons elicits nocifensive behaviors. We then perform a series of molecular characterizations and show that excitatory KOR spinal neurons are recruited by noxious stimuli and coexpress pain-promoting neuropeptides such as Tac1 in both mouse and human. Together, these data suggest that kappa opioids inhibit pain by reducing the release of pain-promoting neuropeptides from a translationally relevant population of spinal neurons.
Candida albicans is an opportunistic fungal pathogen, considered the second most frequent agent of fungal infections worldwide, responsible for high mortality in immunocompromised patients. While epidemiology and genetic diversity of this fungus have been extensively studied globally, genomic profiling in Colombia remains limited. In this study, we analyzed the genomic characteristics of 13 Colombian clinical isolates, focusing on ploidy, gene changes, structural variations, single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), and their phylogenetic relationships with major clades identified by Multi Locus Sequence Typing (MLST). These isolations were selected due to their antifungal susceptibility profiles. Our findings showed no changes in the karyotype, a low number of genes with copy number variations, and a high number of SNPs. The SNP analysis revealed known and new mutations causing amino acid changes in key resistance-associated genes in both susceptible and resistant isolates. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the C. albicans isolates were distributed across various global clades, with 46% belonging to clade 9. Interestingly, one isolate, known for its resistance to fluconazole and intermediate sensitivity to caspofungin, clustered within a distinct and understudied clade. Although no well-characterized mutations explaining resistance were found, these results suggest that other mechanisms or new mutations in untested genes may be involved. Additionally, our findings indicate that C. albicans may only require minor changes to adapt to the host environment. In this study, we present the first complete genome sequence of Colombian C. albicans isolates.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
This study evaluated the effects of live and heat-killed Lacticaseibacillus paracasei HP7 on intestinal motility, host physiological responses, and gut microbiota in a mouse model of delayed intestinal transit. BALB/c mice were treated with live HP7 (HP7L), heat-killed HP7 (HP7K), or bisacodyl following loperamide administration. HP7L and HP7K improved intestinal motility-related parameters, including fecal output, stool consistency, fecal moisture content, and charcoal meal transit. HP7 treatment also modulated circulating gastrointestinal hormones and inflammatory cytokines, with changes in serotonin, ghrelin, peptide YY, IL-6, and IL-17A. In intestinal tissues, HP7 regulated the expression of genes related to neuroendocrine signaling, water transport, mucus production, and tight junction integrity, including Ghrl, Tac1, Slc6a4, Aqp3, Muc2, Tjp1, Tjp2, and Ocln. Histological analysis further showed reduced colonic tissue alterations and improved structural parameters. Microbiota analysis revealed that HP7L exerted broader effects on microbial community structure, whereas HP7K induced more selective taxonomic changes. Predicted functional profiling suggested that both HP7L and HP7K were associated with shifts in carbohydrate metabolism-related pathways, with HP7K showing additional predicted enrichment of pathways related to redox-associated metabolism, lipid metabolism, and microbial substrate utilization. These findings suggest that heat-killed HP7 retains biological activity and has potential as a postbiotic candidate for regulating intestinal motility.
Neuronal activity-driven increases in cerebral blood flow (CBF), known as neurovascular coupling (NVC), are crucial for sustaining the metabolic demands of the brain. Our group has found that Tacr1 neurons, a subset of somatostatin neurons expressing the substance P (SP) receptor and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), exert a disproportionately large regulation of CBF. Here, we use two-photon imaging to show that Tacr1 neurons regulate CBF through nitric oxide (NO) release and SP-receptor signaling . We identify astrocytic calcium (Ca2+) transients as a secondary response to vasodilation. To identify potential sources of SP in somatosensory cortex, viral mapping revealed Tac1-positive neurons locally, predominantly among parvalbumin (PV) neurons, as well as Tac1-positive long-range projections from perirhinal cortex. Functional analyses indicate that PV neurons regulate CBF through a Tacr1 neuron dependent pathway. These findings suggest a sequential mechanism whereby Tacr1 neurons respond to SP to release NO, inducing vasodilation and driving astrocytic Ca2+ signaling.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42311882 is a review article
People with Acute Pancreatitis (AP) who also have Metabolic Dysfunctionassociated Fatty Liver Disease (MAFLD) are more likely to experience worse consequences. However, the mechanisms that link MAFLD and AP are not fully understood. Our study identified shared biomarkers utilizing bioinformatics and machine learning techniques.We selected datasets for AP and MAFLD from the GEO database. Differentially Expressed Genes (DEGs) were identified from the AP dataset. Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) was conducted on the MAFLD dataset to identify the module highly correlated with the disease. Subsequently, we obtained shared genes by taking the intersection of the DEGs and the module genes. The shared genes were analyzed for GO and KEGG enrichment. A Protein-Protein Interaction (PPI) network and machine learning techniques were used to identify diagnostic genes, which were evaluated for diagnostic efficacy using ROC curves.The AP dataset yielded 454 upregulated and 380 downregulated DEGs. WGCNA identified 715 module genes in MAFLD, producing 42 shared genes. Enrichment analyses implicated inflammatory responses, calcium signaling, and lipopolysaccharide-related immune pathways. FPR1 and S100A9 emerged as the final diagnostic candidates, with AUC values exceeding 0.7 across all datasets.FPR1 and S100A9 are involved in immune activation, inflammatory signaling, and oxidative stress, suggesting roles in the pathogenesis of both AP and MAFLD. MAFLD may indirectly worsen AP severity through inflammatory and lipid pathways.FPR1 and S100A9 are promising common biomarkers for AP and MAFLD, and may provide important insights into common mechanisms and therapeutic opportunities.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Metastatic disease remains the primary cause of cancer mortality, yet the identification of robust therapeutic targets is hampered by tumor heterogeneity and microenvironmental complexity. A key challenge lies in identifying epigenetic regulators that can simultaneously inhibit tumor progression and harness immunity. Here, we leverage single-cell transcriptomics from 120 liver cancer patients to identify E1A-like inhibitor of differentiation 1 (EID1) as the sole histone acetylation regulator upregulated in both tumor cells and effector lymphocytes within metastatic sites. Systemic Eid1 deletion markedly suppresses lung metastasis in melanoma, liver cancer, and breast cancer models. This protection is mediated dominantly by natural killer (NK) cells and type I/II interferons (IFNs), as evidenced by antibody-based cell depletion and cytokine neutralization. Eid1-deficient NK cells exhibit a hyperactivated state with robust proliferation, and their adoptive transfer confers superior metastatic suppression. Notably, Eid1 deficiency augments the accumulation of NK cells and dendritic cells (DCs) in lung metastases and induces a close spatial and transcriptional DC-NK interplay for metastatic defense. Mechanistically, loss of Eid1 upregulates formyl peptide receptor 1 (FPR1) and its ligand annexin A1 (ANXA1) on DCs and NK cells, enabling a FPR1-dependent DC-NK crosstalk that strengthens type I and II IFN responses against tumor dissemination. Conditional knockout demonstrated that intratumoral accumulation of NK cells and DCs is determined by cell-intrinsic Eid1. Critically, targeted Eid1 silencing delivered by nanoparticles significantly enhanced Fpr1 expression and NK activation, eventually suppressing tumor dissemination. Collectively, our study uncovers a previously unrecognized role of EID1 in promoting cancer metastasis by dampening the DC-NK joint immunosurveillance and establishes the therapeutic potential of EID1 inhibition in NK cell transfer and siRNA-based strategies.© 2026. Science China Press.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a common pediatric skin disorder with early onset and complex pathophysiology. Tape-strip sampling has enabled minimally invasive molecular profiling of skin lesions in children, yet approaches that verify and standardize stratum corneum (SC) sampling depth have remained limited.To evaluate the utility of imaging-guided tape stripping of SC, combined with transcriptomic and cytokine profiling, for characterizing molecular changes associated with disease severity and treatment response in pediatric AD.By coupling real-time imaging-guided tape stripping with RNA sequencing and cytokine profiling, we examined SC molecular signatures in healthy children (n = 15) and lesional and non-lesional skin of pediatric AD patients (n = 39) with heterogeneous disease severity, both at baseline and following 2 weeks of topical corticosteroid treatment.Using imaging-verified SC sampling, we identified robust molecular signatures, including > 1100 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between healthy and AD skin, and 144 DEGs between lesional and non-lesional AD skin (fold-change ≥2, FDR <0.1). Lesional skin showed enrichment of type 17- and type 2-associated immune pathways, tissue remodeling, and cell cycle control. Thirteen transcripts were significantly associated with clinical severity or itch, including CXCL8/IL8, CD300A, and FPR1. Most of these transcripts decreased after corticosteroid treatment, whereas CD300A and FCGR2B/CD32 remained elevated in a subset of children.These findings support the use of real-time imaging-guided tape stripping as a standardized, minimally invasive approach for verifying SC sampling depth and monitoring molecular changes associated with disease activity and treatment response in pediatric AD.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Endometriosis is a chronic, estrogen-dependent inflammatory disorder characterized by the ectopic implantation of endometrial-like tissue. Although retrograde menstruation is highly prevalent, only a subset of women develops the disease. This epidemiologic paradox suggests that intrinsic molecular alterations in the eutopic endometrium may precondition refluxed cells to survive under inflammatory and oxidative stress.Eutopic endometrial transcriptomes from the GSE6364 dataset (21 endometriosis patients and 16 controls) were analyzed across menstrual phases. Differential expression analysis, Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment, and hallmark inflammatory gene set profiling were performed. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks and three machine-learning algorithms maximal clique centrality (MCC), random forest (RF), and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) were applied to identify robust feature genes. Immune cell infiltration was estimated using CIBERSORT . Excision repair cross-complementation group 1 (ERCC1) was further evaluated via cross-species evolutionary conservation and in silico structural modeling of high-risk variants. Additionally, an exploratory stemness-related single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA) was conducted, and correlations between the stemness score and the feature genes were examined.A total of 443 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, which were significantly enriched in inflammatory cascades, including the NF-κB, Toll-like receptor, and cytokine signaling pathways. Four convergent feature genes ERCC1, SOX3, P75NTR (encoded by NGFR), and FPR1 were prioritized. Immune deconvolution revealed selective immune remodeling in the eutopic endometrium, characterized by elevated activated natural killer (NK) cells and reduced CD8+ T cells, which correlated significantly with the expression of the feature genes. ERCC1 exhibited high evolutionary conservation, and structural modeling of missense variants predicted the disruption of protein function within conserved DNA repair domains. Exploratory stemness analysis revealed no significant overall case-control difference after adjusting for menstrual phase, though the early secretory subset exhibited a marginally higher score in endometriosis.These findings highlight a stress-adaptive transcriptomic state in the eutopic endometrium driven by inflammatory signaling, selective immune remodeling, and altered DNA repair capacity. Specifically, ERCC1 may serve as a critical mechanistic link between inflammatory pressure and impaired genomic maintenance, thereby facilitating cellular persistence and lesion establishment. Furthermore, our data indicate that this four-gene signature primarily reflects a DNA-repair-adaptive program rather than a global bulk-tissue stemness shift.Copyright © 2026 Juan Wang et al. Stem Cells International published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Intervertebral disc degeneration (IDD) is a major cause of low back pain, driven by nucleus pulposus (NP) cell dysfunction, excessive reactive oxygen species (ROS), and chronic inflammation. Current biomaterial-based strategies often fail to simultaneously address oxidative stress and inflammatory signaling in a sustained and synergistic manner. Here, we develop a thermosensitive Pluronic F127-based composite hydrogel co-delivering a tannic acid‑cerium nanozyme and the FPR1 antagonist HCH6-1. The hydrogel undergoes sol-gel transition at body temperature, enabling minimally invasive injection and sustained local release in the intervertebral disc. The cerium nanozyme exerts potent ROS-scavenging activity, effectively reducing intracellular ROS levels and upregulating the antioxidant protein TXNRD1. Meanwhile, HCH6-1 specifically antagonizes FPR1, thereby suppressing cGAS-STING pathway activation and suppressing downstream inflammatory cascades. Beyond direct anti-inflammatory effects, this system significantly enhances mitophagy activity in NP cells, facilitating the clearance of dysfunctional mitochondria and restoring autophagic flux. Collectively, in vitro and in vivo evidence confirms that this dual-functional hydrogel attenuates NP cell inflammation and significantly retards the progression of IDD. Thus, this injectable and biocompatible platform offers a synergistic strategy that couples nanozyme-mediated antioxidant therapy with targeted FPR1 blockade, holding substantial promise for intervertebral disc repair.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Objective: This study was aimed at systematically characterizing cell-type-specific cholesterol metabolism in human blood samples, and investigating the impact of hypercholesterolemia on the composition and gene expression of immune and stromal populations. Method: Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data from 31 human blood samples, encompassing 472,204 high-quality circulating cells, were analyzed. Pathway activities were assessed via gene set variation analysis (GSVA), and cell-type-specific markers were identified using differential expression analysis. Clinical cholesterol levels were used to stratify samples for comparative analysis of cell abundance and transcriptional changes. Results: Monocytes and macrophages were found to exhibit heightened activity in cholesterol transport and dynamic response pathways. Five monocyte-enriched cholesterol metabolism genes (CSF3R, FPR1, MNDA, MPEG1, and VCAN) were identified. Hypercholesterolemia was associated with increased abundance of macrophages, T cells, and NK cells, as well as decreased B cells and monocytes. Significant upregulation of pro-inflammatory genes such as VCAM1 in high-cholesterol conditions was revealed by differential gene expression analysis. Conclusion: Our study provided a comprehensive cell-type-specific atlas of cholesterol metabolism in human blood cells, highlighting metabolic heterogeneity and hypercholesterolemia-induced immune remodeling in the circulation. This resource offered novel insights into cholesterol-mediated immunomodulation.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a leading cause of blindness characterized by early neurovascular damage driven by hyperglycemia-induced mechanisms, including inflammation. The system composed of the urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) and its receptor (uPAR) has previously emerged as a potential regulator of the pro-inflammatory events in DR, possibly through the interaction of uPAR with its lateral partners, such as formyl peptide receptors (FPRs). This study explored whether the inhibition of uPAR/FPR1 crosstalk may reduce early neurovascular alterations in DR by targeting inflammation. To this aim, the new FPR1 antagonist N-19004 was tested in a rat model of streptozotocin-induced diabetes. N-19004 was administered subcutaneously for 7 days at 1 month from diabetes onset. Immunofluorescence, RT-qPCR, Western blot and Evans blue perfusion were performed to evaluate the effects of N-19004 on inflammation, reactive gliosis, blood-retinal barrier (BRB) integrity and apoptosis. In addition, electroretinogram (ERG) was used to assess N-19004 efficacy on retinal function. N-19004 inhibited the activation of inflammation-related transcription factors, including nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3, leading to reduced interleukin-1β and tumor necrosis factor-α expression. The attenuation of inflammatory processes resulted in reduced glial activation, as indicated by lower glial fibrillary acidic protein expression and Müller cell gliosis. The anti-inflammatory activity of N-19004 was accompanied by decreased BRB breakdown, as demonstrated by N-19004-mediated reduction of vascular endothelial growth factor, increased levels of tight junction components and diminished vessel leakage. The amelioration of BRB integrity was associated with reduced activation of caspase 3 and partial preservation of scotopic ERG a- and b-wave amplitudes, thereby improving retinal viability and function in N-19004-treated STZ rats. These results support the possible involvement of uPAR/FPR1 interactions in the regulation of DR-related inflammation and suggest a novel therapeutic target for the management of the early phases of disease.Copyright © 2026 Canovai, Amato, Melecchi, De Fenza, Pavone, D’Alonzo, Cammalleri and Dal Monte.
Metabolic syndrome (MeS) is a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease and is characterized by chronic low-grade inflammation, immune dysregulation, and metabolic abnormalities. However, the molecular mechanisms linking MeS to diabetic coronary artery disease (DMCAD) remain incompletely understood. Publicly available peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) transcriptomic datasets of MeS and DMCAD were analyzed using an integrative bioinformatics approach. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified using the limma package, followed by functional enrichment, protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction, weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), and miRNA regulatory network analysis. Candidate genes were further evaluated using an independent type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) dataset for external transcriptomic validation. Integrated analyses identified immune-inflammatory and immuno-metabolic pathways as central features of both MeS and DMCAD. Enrichment analyses highlighted cytokine signaling, leukocyte activation, chemotaxis, complement activation, oxidative stress, and vascular inflammatory responses. Network analyses identified CD86, CD33, CCR1, C5AR1, FPR1, CXCL16, and LILRA5 as key hub genes associated with immune regulation and cardiometabolic dysfunction. External transcriptomic validation supported the relevance of CD33, CD86, and LILRA5. miRNA network analysis identified members of the miR-17/92 family and miR-146a-5p as potential upstream regulators. TAM 2.0 enrichment analysis further linked these miRNAs to metabolic syndrome, diabetes mellitus, atherosclerosis, coronary heart disease, immune response, inflammation, and angiogenesis. Our findings suggest that coordinated immune-inflammatory and metabolic signaling networks contribute to the progression from MeS to DMCAD. The identified hub genes and miRNAs may serve as potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets for inflammation-driven cardiometabolic disease.
Ulcerative colitis (UC) is an inflammatory bowel disease involving complex interactions between genetics, gut microbiota, metabolism, and immunity. This study aimed to systematically evaluate multi-omics factors potentially associated with UC susceptibility and identify reliable diagnostic biomarkers. A two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) framework assessed potential causal associations between gut microbiome, circulating metabolites, immune cell phenotypes, and UC susceptibility. Significant MR findings were integrated with multiple transcriptomic datasets to identify differentially expressed candidate genes. Immune infiltration analysis, machine learning modeling, and external validation were subsequently performed. Single-cell and spatial transcriptomics were used to localize key genes and to explore their potential cell type-specific functions within the tissue microenvironment, followed by qRT-PCR validation in independent clinical tissues and siRNA-mediated IFITM2 knockdown in THP-1-derived macrophages. MR analyses identified potential causal associations for specific microbiota, sphingomyelin-related metabolites, and immune cell phenotypes with UC susceptibility. Integrative analysis prioritized four core signature genes: SAG, WDR48, IFITM2, and SIRPA. A random forest model achieved an AUC of 0.964 and identified a four-gene signature with strong diagnostic performance. Single-cell and spatial transcriptomics localized IFITM2 upregulation mainly to myeloid cells, particularly Neutrophil_IFITM2. CellChat suggested a potential CD4_Tem_IL7R-ANXA1-FPR1-Neutrophil_IFITM2 axis. qRT-PCR supported the expression directions of the four genes, and IFITM2 knockdown in THP-1-derived macrophages reduced TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-1β mRNA expression. This multi-omics framework supports the potential roles of specific microbiota, sphingolipid metabolism, and immune phenotypes in UC pathogenesis. The four-gene signature and characterization of Neutrophil_IFITM2, supported by independent qRT-PCR validation and preliminary IFITM2 knockdown experiments, may provide a framework for precision diagnosis and future mechanistic studies in UC.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Early-life exposure to fine particulate matter (PM₂.₅) is increasingly implicated in the developmental origins of chronic respiratory diseases; however, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly defined. This study employed Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) to investigate transcriptomic alterations associated with intrauterine and early neonatal PM₂.₅ exposure in the developing murine lung. Microarray data (GSE104656) spanning embryonic (E14.5, E18.5) and postnatal (P40) stages were processed using robust normalization and variance filtering to construct a scale-free co-expression network. Principal component analysis revealed that developmental maturation was the primary driver of global transcriptional variation, with no distinct separation attributable to PM₂.₅ exposure. WGCNA identified biologically relevant gene modules involved in immune and metabolic processes as well as cell cycle regulation, that exhibited strong correlations with developmental progression. Functional enrichment analysis confirmed significant involvement in immune activation, leukocyte adhesion, DNA replication, and chromosomal organisation. Although differential expression analysis under stringent thresholds did not detect significant PM₂.₅-responsive genes, integrative network analysis identified eleven exposure-associated genes embedded within key modules. These genes, including Vnn1, Gprc6a, Mfap1a, Rgs16, and Fpr1, represent highly connected hub nodes implicated in oxidative stress regulation, extracellular matrix remodelling, metabolic signalling, and immune modulation. It was concluded that early-life PM₂.₅ exposure did not globally disrupt lung transcriptomic architecture but selectively perturbs critical hub genes within developmental networks. This targeted sub-network vulnerability provided a mechanistic basis for the developmental programming of COPD susceptibility, linking early environmental insults to long-term respiratory dysfunction.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Macrophages are the primary host cells for Leishmania, and their polarization into either M1 (pro-inflammatory) or M2 (anti-inflammatory) phenotypes determines the course of the infection. This study aimed to investigate the effects of Leishmania tropica, the main agent of cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) in Türkiye, on the polarization of primary human macrophages. Primary monocytes were isolated from human peripheral blood and differentiated into macrophages using GM-CSF. The cells were infected with L. tropica promastigotes, analyzed after 48 hours. Polarization was evaluated through morphological changes, flow cytometry for surface markers (CD80, CD163, CD206, CD209), and qPCR for gene expression of M1 (NOS2, IDO1, IRF4) and M2 (ARG1, CCL22, CCL1) markers. An infection rate of 56.5% was achieved, with infected macrophages shifting from a spindle-like morphology to a rounded and granular appearance. Flow cytometry revealed a significant decrease in the expression of M1 marker CD80 and M2 markers CD206 and CD209 (p<0.01), while CD163 expression showed a non-significant increase. qPCR analyses demonstrated a significant down regulation of M1-related genes and a significant upregulation of the M2-related gene ARG1 (p<0.05). The findings suggest that L. tropica infection induces a shift in macrophage polarization from an M1-like phenotype toward an M2-like phenotype, with partial resemblance to an M2c-like profile, though the concurrent decrease in CD206 and CD209 underscores the complexity of the phenotype and indicates that the activated state does not conform neatly to any single M2 subtype. This shift likely serves as an immune escape strategy, promoting parasite persistence and influencing the chronicity of CL. Further studies incorporating additional M2c subtype markers, multiple time points, and functional assays are needed.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) establishes latent infection in humans, but under conditions of immune suppression, it may reactivate and contribute to severe diseases, including Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) and B-cell malignancies. The KSHV genome encodes a single G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), open reading frame 74 (ORF74), which shows homology to human chemokine receptors. Since its identification in 1996, ORF74 has subsequently been shown to interact with a broad range of human CXC chemokines, as well as CCL1 and the viral chemokine vCCL2. Compared with many human chemokine receptors, ORF74 displays high basal activity. These properties allow ORF74 to deregulate host cellular pathways through constitutive and chemokine-modulated signaling. In this study, we evaluated several human chemokines that, to our knowledge, had not previously been tested in ORF74-dependent cellular assays. Whereas CXCL9, CXCL14, CXCL16 and CXCL17 did not interact with ORF74, CXCL13 was identified as an additional ORF74 agonist and CXCL11 as an inverse agonist. CXCL13 dose-dependently induced ORF74-mediated Ca2+ release, β-arrestin1/2 recruitment and chemotaxis, and enhanced basal nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) activity in ORF74-expressing cells. In contrast, CXCL11 showed no detectable ORF74 agonist activity in the calcium mobilization or chemotaxis assay, but antagonized CXCL1-induced responses in both readouts. CXCL11 also elicited inverse agonist-like responses in β-arrestin1/2 recruitment assays and reduced basal NF-κB signaling. Our study thus reveals CXCL13 and CXCL11 as two additional chemokine ligands for ORF74, further expanding the pharmacological profile of this viral GPCR.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Platelet-rich plasma (PRP) is widely utilized for skin rejuvenation and tissue regeneration; however, its biological effects vary according to leukocyte content and molecular composition. We investigated the mechanism by which leukocyte-rich PRP (L-PRP) enhances extracellular matrix (ECM) regeneration in aged skin, focusing on the CCL1-CCR8/pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) signaling axis. First, we demonstrated that L-PRP contains significantly higher levels of CCL1 than platelet-poor plasma (PPP). In senescent human dermal fibroblasts, L-PRP increased CCL1-CCR8 interactions in a manner linked to enhanced formation and nuclear translocation of PKM2 dimers. This enhancement was accompanied by Janus kinase (JAK)/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) pathway activation and the upregulation of STAT3-dependent anti-apoptotic proteins (Bcl-2, Bcl-xL) and proliferative markers (Cyclin D1), resulting in increased fibroblast proliferation. Furthermore, L-PRP increased PKM2 tetramer levels, promoted PKM2-SMAD7 binding, and reduced SMAD7-mediated inhibition of transforming growth factor (TGF)-β signaling, leading to enhanced SMAD2/3 activation. These molecular events augmented the synthesis of collagen types I and III in senescent fibroblasts. In aged mice, intradermal L-PRP injections elicited dose-dependent increases in fibroblast proliferation, collagen fiber deposition, and skin elasticity. Nuclear PKM2 dimer/STAT3 signaling and PKM2 tetramer/TGF-β signaling were both more strongly activated in the L-PRP group. Our findings identify PKM2 as a central metabolic and signaling integrator linking immune-derived chemokines to fibroblast rejuvenation. This study provides mechanistic insights concerning how L-PRP promotes ECM regeneration in aged skin via coordinated regulation of fibroblast survival, proliferation, and collagen synthesis.
The incidence of melanoma, which is among the most common skin cancers, has significantly increased at an alarming rate over the past decade. Serum amyloid P component (SAP), a member of the pentraxin (PTX) family, is a major acute-phase protein in mice. The effects of SAP on melanoma and the mechanisms underlying these effects remain unclear. In the current study, we established xenograft and metastatic melanoma models in SAP-overexpressing (SAP-Tg) mice to determine the effect of SAP on the progression of melanoma. Compared with wild-type (WT) mice, SAP-Tg mice developed tumors with smaller volumes and fewer metastatic foci, and the degree of cell proliferation within the transplanted tumors was significantly decreased by SAP. Further study indicated that SAP inhibited melanoma growth and metastasis by suppressing CC-chemokine 1 (CCL1) secretion from activated macrophages, while CCL1 promoted the migration and invasion of B16F10 melanoma cells. Furthermore, SAP-induced CCL1 downregulation suppressed Ras/p-ERK pathway activation. These findings indicate a new effect of SAP mediated via a novel mechanism and provide direct evidence that SAP may have therapeutic value for melanoma.AJCR Copyright © 2026.
With the introduction of Navarixin in clinical trials, the role of squaric acid derivatives as bioisosteres gained popularity. Because of their distinctive electronic properties and hydrogen-bonding capacity, these compounds hold considerable promise for medicinal chemistry applications. In this study, a series of novel furan- and thiophene-containing squaric acid derivatives was synthesized via base-catalyzed nucleophilic substitution and characterized by spectroscopic techniques. The structures of three compounds were additionally confirmed by X-ray crystallography. Density functional theory calculations showed good agreement with the experimental vibrational spectra. In silico evaluation predicted favorable drug-like characteristics, including compliance with Lipinski's rule of five and high gastrointestinal absorption. The cytotoxic activity of the synthesized compounds was assessed against HeLa, HT-29, HL-60, A-549, and MCF-7 cancer cell lines, as well as the non-cancerous CCL-1 cell line. Several derivatives displayed moderate to strong antiproliferative activity with selectivity toward malignant cells. Compound 3d exhibited the most pronounced improvement (five-fold) over Navarixin in HL-60 cells 5.81 µM, while compounds 3a and 3c demonstrated superior potency and selectivity in A-549 cells (10.33 µM and 9.65 µM). These findings identify squaric acid derivatives as promising candidates for further anticancer drug development and structure-activity relationship studies.
Severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome virus (SFTSV) and severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) can cause severe, often fatal, disease characterized by hyperinflammation and features of a cytokine storm. Hyperproduction of both IL-10 and IL-6 and low TGF-β production can generate a cytokine storm, with IL-10 playing a particularly important role. To investigate the role of IL-10 in patients with SFTS, we analyzed the phenotypes of macrophages, cytokines, and signaling pathways in patients with mild to fatal SFTS and found that the population of HLA-DR+CD86+ macrophages was increased, the population of CD163+CD206+ macrophages was decreased, the levels of IL-10 (p < 0.0001), IL-6 (p < 0.0001), TNF-α (p=0.1056), and CCL1 (p=0.1533) were increased, TGF-β (p=0.0104) was increased, and Smad3 and P-Smad3 were highly expressed in patients with fatal SFTS. We also investigated the role of IL-10 in THP-1-derived macrophages infected with SFTSV or SARS-CoV-2, treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), or treated with serum from patients with fatal SFTS. We found that blocking IL-10 signaling can decrease the population of HLA-DR+CD86+ cells, increase the population of CD163+CD206+ cells, reduce IL-6 and TNF-α production, increase TGF-β production and induce the expression of Smad3 and P-Smad3 in SFTSV- and SARS-CoV-2-infected and LPS-induced THP-1 cells. Additionally, IL-10 receptor blockade can reduce IL-10 and IL-6 production in THP-1 cells treated with serum from patients with fatal SFTS. Therefore, we suggest that HLA-DRhiCD86hi macrophages may contribute to pathological activity and that CD163hiCD206hi macrophages may play a critical role in the protection of effector functions against SFTSV and SARS-CoV-2 infection. IL-10 could serve as a prognostic target, and antibodies against the IL-10 receptor could represent a potential immune-based intervention against a cytokine storm in patients with fatal SFTS and severe/critical COVID-19.Copyright At least a portion of this work is authored by Andrew G. Letizia, Huy C. Nguyen, and Hoai J. Hallam on behalf of the U.S. Government and as regards Dr. Letizia, Dr. Nguyen, and Dr. Hallam and the U.S. Government, is not subject to copyright protection in the United States. Foreign and other copyrights may apply.
Autoimmune diseases like multiple sclerosis (MS) and type 1 diabetes (T1D) lack therapies that induce durable, antigen-specific immune tolerance. We investigated whether mRNA lipid nanoparticles (LNPs) encoding disease-relevant autoantigens could re-establish immune homeostasis in preclinical models. While mRNA-LNP microbial vaccines evoke strong effector immune responses, we show that both systemic and intramuscular delivery of MOG27-63 mRNA-loaded LNPs attenuated disease severity in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Antigen-specific protection was similarly observed in a T1D adoptive transfer model. Therapeutic efficacy achieved using immunostimulatory LNPs challenges the current assumption that tolerogenic mRNA vaccines require immune-silent LNPs. Furthermore, divergent outcomes between autoantigens and irrelevant antigens suggest that antigen identity determines whether mRNA-LNPs promote immune tolerance or activation. Mechanistically, optimized LNPs efficiently targeted antigen-presenting cells (APCs) in the liver and spleen. This promoted a homeostatic APC phenotype and a hyporesponsive CD4+ T cell phenotype without inducing regulatory T cells (Tregs). Therefore, autoantigen mRNA was co-delivered with "immunoregulatory" mRNAs encoding cytokines (IL-2 mutein) or chemokines (CCL1) known to enhance Treg expansion and recruitment. This co-delivery further improved clinical outcomes in EAE. Together, these findings demonstrate that systemic and intramuscular treatment with mRNA-LNPs encoding autoantigens alongside immunoregulatory molecules represents a promising strategy for antigen-specific immunotherapy in autoimmune diseases.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
The mechanisms of EV-A71 immune evasion and neuroinvasion are poorly understood. Inactivated vaccines provide protective immunity without the dysregulated inflammation and viral persistence caused by active infection. In this bioinformatics-driven study, our objective was to utilize computational transcriptomics to investigate this dichotomy and determine the specific neural cell populations susceptible to enteroviral infection.We compared bulk RNA-seq data from THP-1 macrophages infected with active versus inactivated EV-A71 to identify viral hijacking programs. We then applied these systemic findings to the neural environment via an iterative Area Under the Curve (AUC)-based optimization strategy. This process refined the broad bulk-derived candidates into a 10-gene consensus signature, which was projected onto a human spinal cord organoid single-cell RNA-seq atlas to map viral susceptibility across distinct developmental lineages.While active infection with EV-A71 is associated with a wound-healing program defined by the expression of PMEPA1, ALOX5, CCL1, and SPRED3, the administration of an inactivated virus elicits an anti-inflammatory response without activating a similar transcriptional program. In fact, decreased expression of inflammatory factors (ADORA2A, CCR1, CXCL1) marks this wound-healing stage and leads to the development of an immunosuppressive M2 phenotype. By projecting the highly robust 10-gene consensus (comprising ALDH2, SERPINE2, and L1CAM) against the organoid atlas, we have predicted that the cycling neural progenitors could be the most likely reservoir for EV-A71 replication. Using a Wilcoxon rank sum test with Benjamini-Hochberg correction, we observed the only statistically enriched signature in progenitor cells Discussion: Transcriptomic data indicate that EV-A71 might hijack TGF-β/PMEPA1 and ALOX5 signaling pathways to establish EMT-like behavior. The local acquisition of an M2-like immunosuppressive state might help promote early systemic dissemination, immunologic escape, followed by colonization of the proliferative neural niche prior to the development of neurological symptoms.Computational identification of a macrophage gene signature provides robust discrimination of EV-A71 infection from vaccine-based protection in vivo. Mapping the signature to the context of human spinal cord organoids indicates that EV-A71 specifically targets proliferative and regenerative programs of neural stem cells.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42377632 is a review article
We previously reported that mirogabalin, a selective voltage-gated calcium channel α2δ1/α2δ2 ligand, increases the proliferative potential of pancreatic cancer. However, the risk of pregabalin, a non-selective α2δ ligand, is unknown in pancreatic cancer. Therefore, the proliferation of murine pancreatic cancer cell lines was studied following treatment with pregabalin.Six-week-old pancreatic cancer mouse model KPPC (LSL-KrasG12D/+; Trp53flox/flox; Pdx-1cre/+) was orally administrated pregabalin 30 mg · kg-1 · day-1 (n = 10), or vehicle water (n = 14) until the humane endpoint (no activity, food intake of <1 g · day-1 or more than 20% body weight loss within several days). Cancer-related pain was assessed using the scores of the hunching and mouse grimace scale. Tumor status and plasma cytokine levels were determined using histopathological analysis and cytokine antibody arrays, respectively. Proliferative effect of pregabalin was investigated using mouse pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma cell lines.The number of pancreatic cancer cells were increased by 100 and 300 μM pregabalin in vitro. The pain scores in KPPC mice were decreased by pregabalin, but there was no significant difference in the survival rate or tumor size. Interestingly, pregabalin increased the local infiltration of CD8+ and CD4+ lymphocytes, natural killer cells and CD8+ and CD4+ dendritic cells. In contrast, M2-like tumor-associated macrophages and cancer-associated fibroblasts were reduced. Similar to the results of immuno-inflammatory alterations, plasma cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin (IL)-6, IL-10, IL-13, CC chemokine ligand (CCL)1, CCL2, CCL3, CCL5 and CCL17 decreased, while IL-2, IL-15, CCL19, CCL21, C-X-C motif ligand (CXCL)10, CXCL16 and XCL1 increased by pregabalin.These findings suggest that pregabalin increases the proliferative ability of pancreatic cancer cells in vitro without promoting tumor growth in vivo. Additionally, it induces an alteration with an increase in tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes and dendritic cells, along with a decrease in M2-like tumor-associated macrophages and cancer-associated fibroblasts in vivo.© 2026. The Author(s).
Rearrangements involving MECOM at chromosome 3q26.2 are recurrent in myeloid neoplasms, classically represented by inv(3)(q21q26.2) and t(3;3)(q21;q26.2), which reposition the GATA2-distal haematopoietic enhancer and drive aberrant EVI1 overexpression. However, the full structural and mechanistic diversity of MECOM rearrangements (MECOM-r) is yet to be explored. We retrospectively analysed 97 cases with cytogenetically defined MECOM-r and identified 12 with complex rearrangements using GTG-banded karyotyping and tri-colour interphase/metaphase fluorescence in situ hybridisation analyses. These 12 cases demonstrated remarkable structural heterogeneity. The abnormalities encompassed translocations, inversions, insertions, duplications, and deletions, which often coexisted within the same specimen as multiple rearranged subclones. Insertional events emerged as a distinct mechanism of MECOM activation. These encompassed insertions of MYNN and/or MECOM into chromosomes 1 and 6, insertion of chromosome 8 segment into MECOM, and inverted insertions between homologous chromosome 3 segments. Recurrent breakpoints at 3q21 across multiple cases, together with localised copy number imbalances frequently involving the MYNN and GOLIM4 loci at 3q26.2, underscore the architectural fragility of these two regions. Co-occurring abnormalities such as -5/del(5q), -7/del(7q), and TP53 loss were common, reflecting a permissive genomic background for chromosomal reassembly. Our findings expand the mechanistic landscape of MECOM-r beyond canonical inv(3)/t(3;3), establishing 3q21 and 3q26.2 as structural 'hotspots' and genomic instability hubs. Distinct from fusion-driven oncogenes such as KMT2A, MECOM activation results from enhancer hijacking and regional structural remodelling, leading to EVI1 overexpression and clonal evolution in myeloid malignancies.Copyright © 2026 Royal College of Pathologists of Australasia. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Germline GATA2 deficiency is a pleiotropic condition 1-8 characterized by numerous phenotypes, including monocytopenia, immunodeficiency, microbial susceptibilities, and high rates of myeloid malignancies 1,8. Accurate curation of germline GATA2 variants is critical for patient care and requires well-defined phenotypes associated with GATA2 deficiency. The many phenotypes attributed to the condition render a simple description of GATA2 deficiency difficult, complicating the development of GATA2 variant curation rules. Therefore, the Myeloid Malignancy Variant Curation Expert Panel (MM-VCEP) sought to define GATA2 deficiency based on a statistical comparison of phenotype data. To do so, the MM-VCEP systematically analyzed phenotype data and applied statistical comparisons to define the phenotypic features of GATA2 deficiency to inform germline variant curation. The MM-VCEP assembled an international cohort of 339 people with clinically diagnosed GATA2 deficiency from 16 centers in seven countries. The 73 phenotypes of these individuals were compared statistically to those of control participants from the UK Biobank (UKBB). We compared single phenotypes as well as combinations of two, three, and four phenotypes in people with clinically diagnosed GATA2 deficiency to UKBB controls. We defined GATA2 deficiency as any of the 2,903 combinations of two or three phenotypes with log10Odds Ratio ≥3 (OR ≥ 1000). This definition of GATA2 deficiency will inform gene-specific phenotypic criteria used in GATA2 variant curation guidelines that will facilitate standardized variant curation by clinical laboratories worldwide.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558596 is a review article
MECOM rearrangements (MECOM-r) are high-risk events in myeloid neoplasms often cryptic or incompletely characterized by conventional karyotype analysis. We used optical genome mapping (OGM) to define the frequency and spectrum of MECOM-r in an unselected, consecutively collected cohort of individuals with high-grade myeloid neoplasms (HGMNs) and compared these findings with standard cytogenetic approaches.A total of 252 HGMN specimens, including 224 with definitive diagnoses of acute myeloid leukemia, were processed over a 2-year period using OGM, G-banded karyotyping and, in some cases, reflex fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) for the MECOM locus. Cases were retrospectively reviewed to determine whether the identification of MECOM-r by OGM refined diagnosis and/or prognosis.Our diagnostic workflow identified MECOM-r in 12 cases (4.7%), only 6 of which were identified by combined karyotype and FISH analyses, the latter for suspected chromosome 3 abnormalities. The remaining 6 cases were cryptic due to normal karyotypes, highly complex karyotypes lacking apparent chromosome 3 involvement, or culture failure and thus were identified by OGM and reflex FISH. Furthermore, OGM clarified complex architectures, resolved genetic alterations, and identified diverse partner loci, including GATA2, THADA, MYC, PHACTR1, MB21D2, XR_001744423.2, IL12A-AS1, TRIM59, CDK6, and MSI2. Detection of these structural alterations prompted diagnostic and/or risk reclassification in 5 cases.Optical genome mapping doubled the detection rate and improved the structural resolution of MECOM-r by identifying rearrangements incompletely resolved or missed by conventional cytogenetics. Implementation of OGM showed that MECOM-r can be cryptic and frequently overlooked, highlighting the value of high-resolution testing in HGMNs.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society for Clinical Pathology.
Severe asthma affects 3%-5% of children and may remain uncontrolled despite high-dose inhaled corticosteroids and other controller therapies. Omalizumab, an anti-IgE monoclonal antibody, is approved for children ≥6 years with severe asthma, however treatment response shows substantial interindividual variability.This study aimed to investigate whether selected single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in genes involved in IgE signaling and immune regulation are associated with clinical response to omalizumab in pediatric severe asthma.In this retrospective cohort study, 30 children with severe asthma treated with omalizumab for 12 months were genotyped for selected SNPs in FCER1B, FCGR2A, FCGR3A, C3, and GATA2 genes. Clinical response was defined as: (i) ≥10% improvement in FEV1%, (ii) ≥50% reduction or absence of asthma exacerbations, and (iii) ≥50% reduction or discontinuation of oral corticosteroids (OCS). A combined response was defined as meeting at least two of these outcomes. Changes in GINA step were also assessed separately.FEV1% improvement showed a nominal association with the variant allele of GATA2 rs4857855 (p = 0.044). Reduction in exacerbation was nominally associated to variant alleles of FCER1B rs573790 (p = 0.003), and GATA2 rs4857855 (p = 0.032). OCS reduction was nominally associated with variant alleles of FCER1B rs573790 (p = 0.037) and FCGR3A rs396991 (p = 0.014). A combined response was nominally associated with FCER1B rs573790 and GATA2 rs4857855 variant alleles (p = 0.012). No SNP was associated with all three outcomes or GINA step reduction.Genetic variability in IgE- and Fc receptor-related pathways may contribute to differential response to omalizumab in children with severe asthma. These findings are exploratory and require validation in larger prospective studies.Copyright © 2026 Rottura, Pirrotta, Cullotta, Marino, Sacco, Gianguzzo, Irrera, Arcoraci, Alibrandi, Galletta, Corso, Leonardi, Manti and Pallio.
Chemokine and chemokine receptors (CKRs) regulate cell growth, tumor immunity, migration, angiogenesis, and metastasis. We evaluated associations of inherited chemokine/CKR variants with subsequent primary melanomas among patients with a previous melanoma. Our population-based cohort included 2458 incident single primary and 1205 multiple primary melanoma (MPM) cases. We examined 215 a priori candidate polymorphisms selected based on prior evidence and predicted functional relevance, along with nine haplotype blocks. Logistic regression estimated odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals, adjusting for age at diagnosis, sex, age-by-sex interaction, and study center. Thirty variants across 14 genes were nominally associated with MPM (P < 0.05), with effect sizes ranging from 16 to 80%. Five haplotypes in CXCL12, CCL18, CXCR2, and CCR9 were significantly associated with MPM (Pglobal < 0.03) with stronger effects than individual-effect alleles. Functional annotation identified 160 associated index variants and linkage disequilibrium proxies acting as skin expression quantitative trait loci for CXCR2, XCR1, BCL9L, FYCO1, PNKD, RUFY4, and RP11-378A13.1 (P < 1.06E-05 to 4.3E-34). These variants were classified functionally as candidate causal variants based on convergent regulatory annotation and skin‑specific expression quantitative trait locus evidence, linking chemokine/CKR variants and haplotypes to downstream genes involved in epithelial-mesenchymal-like transition, matrix remodeling, and other tumorigenic processes, thereby implicating immune regulatory mechanisms in melanoma development. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to demonstrate an association of a priori chemokine/CKR variants with subsequent melanoma risk. Validation and evaluation of associations with tumor characteristics and survival are warranted.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42548795 is a review article
The SARS-CoV-2 virus significantly evolved with several new strains identified. Transmissibility has increased with each strain, corresponding with a decrease in mortality. We previously demonstrated novel dysfunctional neutrophil responses in alpha COVID-19 patients compared to community acquired pneumonia controls. We investigated if strain variation altered our previously observed neutrophil dysfunction. Patients with COVID-19 not requiring intensive care were recruited between January 2021 and May 2022 from the Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham; 41 patients with alpha, 32 delta and 14 omicron. Neutrophils isolated from whole blood were investigated for phagocytosis of labelled Streptococcus pneumoniae, transwell migration towards interleukin-8, neutrophil extracellular (NET) formation and surface phenotype. Neutrophil phagocytosis was significantly increased in delta variant (vs alpha p=0.0012, vs omicron p=0.0209). Transwell migration was also significantly reduced in omicron patients (vs alpha p=0.0002, vs delta p=0.0129). There was a significant reduction in NET formation from omicron patients (vs alpha p=0.0031, vs delta p=0.0231). Compared to alpha patients, neutrophils from omicron patients had reduced expression of CD10 (p=0.0004), CD54 (p=0.0015), CD62L (p=0.0013) and CD11c (p<0.0001). CXCR2 expression was higher in neutrophils from omicron compared to alpha patients (p=0.0001). Neutrophil function and phenotype differ between the variants of COVID-19 infection in hospitalised patients. Neutrophil changes suggest more accurate migration in omicron patients, leading to decreased neutrophil host-mediated tissue damage. This may contribute to the overall milder clinical omicron phenotype. Ongoing research and review of therapies remains important alongside viral evolution.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society for Leukocyte Biology.
This study investigates the molecular mechanisms of renal clear cell carcinoma (RCC) induced by Aristolochic acid A (AAA) using machine learning, deep learning, and molecular docking approaches.To identify AAA target genes associated with RCC, differential expression analysis was performed on multiple datasets. Network toxicology, machine learning, deep learning, and molecular docking were used to explore the binding interactions between AAA and target proteins. The top candidate gene was validated using molecular dynamics simulation and in vitro Western blot assays.A total of 74 genes were identified as potential targets in AAA-induced RCC. Subsequent machine learning analysis identified seven core genes as key regulators of RCC. Deep learning classification further highlighted five of these seven genes, including PYGL, ADH1B, PTGS1, EDNRA, and AURKA. Additionally, molecular docking simulations revealed strong binding affinities between AAA and these target proteins. Molecular dynamics simulation demonstrated the binding stability of the AAA-PYGL complex, and in vitro studies highlighted PYGL as a potential target of AAA. Elevated expression of PYGL was observed in both 786-O and AAA-induced HK-2 cells. Moreover, treatment with CP-91149 (a PYGL inhibitor) or PYGL knockdown restored the expression of E-cadherin, an epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) marker, in HK-2 cells.By combining advanced computational methods with in vitro studies, this work elucidates a key toxicity mechanism of AAA in RCC. Our approach provides a feasible and efficient framework for toxicological studies, offering significant value for toxicologists with limited access to clinical specimens.Copyright © 2026 Li, Liao, Chen, Lin, Gong, Huang, Bi, Wang, Chia, Chen, Xu, Liu, Hao and Qi.
Ambient particulate matter (PM2.5) exposure is a major environmental risk factor for cardiopulmonary disease, but its effects on erythroid homeostasis remain incompletely understood. Although prior in vitro work indicates that PM2.5 can damage circulating red blood cells (RBCs), whether exposure alters erythropoiesis and the coordinated clearance of senescent RBCs has not been fully explored. Using a mouse model of whole-body exposure to concentrated ambient PM2.5 (CAP), we investigated associations between inhaled PM on erythroid output, splenic macrophage function, and lipid mediator signaling. CAP exposure was associated with suppressed erythropoietin levels, reduced circulating reticulocytes, and decreased erythroid precursor populations in the bone marrow, consistent with impaired erythropoiesis. Despite preserved splenic architecture, CAP-exposed mice exhibited reduced splenic iron and heme content, consistent with diminished erythrocyte turnover and processing. Targeted lipidomic profiling revealed broad suppression of proresolving lipid mediators in the spleen, with lipoxin A4 (LXA4) among the most consistently reduced species. Expression of the LXA4 receptor, ALX/FPR2, was also downregulated with prolonged exposure. Importantly, removal of CAP and return to filtered air resulted in normalization of splenic lipid mediator profiles, restoration of LXA4 levels, and recovery of erythroid parameters, including reticulocyte abundance and RBC stress markers. Together, these findings suggest that altered resolution signaling contributes to PM2.5-induced disruption of erythroid homeostasis and implicate macrophage-lipid mediator pathways in the hematologic response to environmental stress.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society of Toxicology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
The parabrachial nucleus (PBN) is a critical hub for pain processing that acts as a switchboard for nociceptive signals, relaying sensory information to forebrain regions that integrate the sensory and affective dimensions of pain. Although the PBN is well established as a key regulator of pain, the remarkable heterogeneity of its neuronal populations has hindered efforts to identify specific cell types responsible for distinct aspects of pain processing. Here, we identify bombesin receptor subtype 3 ( Brs3 )-expressing neurons as a distinct glutamatergic PBN subpopulation involved in heat hypersensitivity associated with persistent pain. Using Fos expression analysis and in vivo calcium imaging, we demonstrate that Brs3 neurons exhibit heightened activity in response to heat stimulation following an inflammatory insult or neuropathic injury. Inhibition of Brs3 neurons effectively reduces heat, but not mechanical, hypersensitivity induced by both inflammatory and neuropathic pain, suggesting a specific role in processing heat hypersensitivity. Ablation of parabrachial Brs3 neurons prior to induction of pain also selectively prevents the development of heat hypersensitivity induced by persistent inflammation in mice. Brs3 -expressing neurons encompass multiple previously identified pain-related PBN subpopulations, including those expressing the mu opioid receptor ( Oprm1 ), tachykinin 1 receptor ( Tacr1 ), and neuropeptide Y Y1 receptor ( Npy1r ), positioning Brs3 as a potential unifying marker of heat hypersensitivity circuits. These findings provide new insight into the organization of pain-processing networks in the PBN and highlight Brs3 neurons as a crucial population for heat pain.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42534550 is a review article
Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) remains a severe inflammatory lung disorder with limited disease-modifying therapies. Lipoxin A4 (LXA4) is an endogenous specialized pro-resolving mediator that can modulate macrophage responses; however, its role in bacterial ARDS-like injury and the underlying ALX/FPR2-associated mechanism remain incompletely defined. To determine whether post-injury LXA4 attenuates Escherichia coli (E. coli)-induced ARDS-like lung injury in mice and whether these effects are associated with ALX/FPR2-dependent macrophage reprogramming.Male C57BL/6J mice were randomized to PBS, ARDS, LXA4, or LXA4 + WRW4 groups (n=6 per group per time point). Mice were challenged intratracheally with E. coli (2 × 10^6 CFU in 50 μL) and treated 4 h later with intravenous LXA4 (7 μg /kg), with or without intraperitoneal WRW4 (1.8 mg/kg) administered at the time of LXA4 dosing. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), plasma, and lung tissue samples were collected at 24 h and 72 h for histology, injury scoring, BALF protein, bacterial burden, cytokine and lipid mediator ELISA, ROS, and HO-1 analyses. In vitro, MH-S alveolar macrophages were stimulated with LPS (1 μg/mL) and treated with LXA4 (200 nM), with or without WRW4 (10 μM), to assess cytokine secretion, STAT1/STAT3 expression, iNOS/CD206 markers, and cell-associated GFP-E. coli uptake.LXA4 reduced macroscopic and histological lung injury, the lung wet weight-to-body weight ratio, BALF IL-6, IL-1β and TNF-α levels, BALF protein leakage, and BALF bacterial burden after E. coli challenge. LXA4 also increased circulating LXA4 while decreasing LTB4, LTC4, and PGE2, reduced lung ROS, and enhanced HO-1 expression. In MH-S cells, LXA4 decreased pro-inflammatory cytokine release, increased IL-10, promoted an M2-like marker profile, and enhanced cell-associated GFP-E. coli uptake. WRW4 attenuated these effects, supporting pharmacological involvement of ALX/FPR2 signaling.LXA4 alleviates bacterial ARDS-like lung injury in mice and promotes pro-resolving macrophage features, with effects attenuated by ALX/FPR2 antagonism. These findings support LXA4/ALX-FPR2 signaling as a preclinical pro-resolving strategy that warrants validation in cell-specific and clinically representative ARDS models.© 2026 Zhang et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42517695 is a review article
This study presents an in-depth analysis of an interactome comprising approximately 1033 nodes, focusing on its topology, reliability, and functional implications, with particular attention to the small mitochondrial proteins of the Humanin family and their nuclear-encoded MTRNR2Lx paralogs. The analysis, conducted through stringent high-reliability filters and experimentally supported interaction data, produced a curated network model in which approximately 70% of the retained interactions were supported by experimental evidence, providing a solid basis for network-based functional interpretation. The topology of the interactome showed scale-free and modular network characteristics, with hub and bottleneck nodes defining highly connected stress-response and regulatory modules. Humanin-related proteins, positioned at the periphery of the interactome, emerged as candidate modulatory nodes linking peripheral signaling interfaces to broader functional modules. Mitochondrial Humanin may contribute to early cytoprotective responses, including pathways associated with BAX-dependent apoptosis regulation, whereas nuclear MTRNR2Lx proteins appear to be connected to more sustained regulatory networks involving neuroprotection- and apoptosis-associated modules under chronic stress conditions. In particular, the MTRNR2Lx-FPR2/G-protein module, including GNB1, emerged as a candidate signaling interface that may contribute to the downstream organization of Humanin-related responses. This network-based distinction supports the view that Humanin-family peptides may operate as modulators of stress-response networks rather than as isolated effectors of intrinsic mitochondrial functions. Overall, the methodological approach, results, and proposed model provide new insights into the systems-level organization of Humanin biology and identify prioritized molecular candidates for future in vitro and in vivo validation in the context of neurodegeneration, apoptosis, and cellular stress.
Sustained Hippo/Yes-associated protein (YAP) activation drives triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), but druggable upstream regulators remain unclear. We investigated G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) as membrane inputs for YAP activation. TCGA-based Hippo/YAP signature analysis, marketed-drug GPCR annotation, and siRNA screening using connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) identified endothelin receptor type A (EDNRA). EDNRA function was tested by knockdown, overexpression, endothelin-1 (ET-1) stimulation, and atrasentan blockade in TNBC cells and xenografts. YAP regulation was examined by immunoblotting, RT-qPCR, TEAD reporter assays, subcellular localization, docking, co-immunoprecipitation, mutagenesis, ChIP-qPCR, and CRISPRi. EDNRA correlated with Hippo/YAP signatures, adverse clinical features, and poor outcome. EDNRA depletion or atrasentan suppressed proliferation, migration, stem-like populations, and xenograft growth, whereas EDNRA overexpression or ET-1 had opposite effects. Mechanistically, EDNRA reduced YAP Ser127 phosphorylation, promoted nuclear YAP accumulation, and enhanced TEAD transcription through Gαq/11-Rho/ROCK-LATS signaling. Mutating predicted EDNRA-Gαq/11 interface residues impaired YAP activation and tumor-promoting activity. Reciprocally, YAP/TEAD4 enhanced EDNRA transcription through an enhancer-associated region. Atrasentan also sensitized TNBC cells to paclitaxel and produced positive zero interaction potency (ZIP) synergy scores. EDNRA establishes a druggable positive feedback loop with Hippo/YAP signaling and represents a potential therapeutic vulnerability in YAP-driven TNBC.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
FGFR2b is an emerging therapeutic target in HER2-negative advanced gastric cancer (AGC). However, diagnostic concordance between FGFR2b immunohistochemistry (IHC) and genomic assays has been inconsistent due to tumor heterogeneity. The clinical relevance of FGFR2 fusion also remains unclear given its low prevalence. This study assessed the diagnostic concordance and clinical significance of FGFR2b overexpression and FGFR2 genomic alterations using whole-slide surgical specimens. A total of 113 AGC gastrectomy specimens underwent FGFR2b IHC (FPR2-D antibody) and tissue-based next-generation sequencing (NGS) with the TruSight Oncology 500 assay. FGFR2b positivity followed FORTITUDE criteria (≥ 10% moderate-to-strong membranous staining). FGFR2b IHC positivity was 10.6%, and FGFR2 amplification was detected in 13.3% of cases. Surgical specimens demonstrated substantial concordance between IHC and NGS (κ = 0.62), which further improved when FGFR2 fusion was incorporated (κ = 0.67). FGFR2 fusion was relatively rare (5.3%) but associated with both amplification and FGFR2b overexpression (83% and 67%, respectively). Fusion-positive patients showed significantly worse overall survival (p = 0.02). In conclusion, adequate surgical tissue enables strong concordance between FGFR2b IHC and NGS. FGFR2b IHC is an effective frontline screen, while NGS is essential for detecting rare FGFR2 fusions that define an aggressive, poor‑prognosis subtype.© 2026. The Author(s).
Candida keratitis (CK) is a vision-threatening corneal infection. Although host immune responses are essential for eliminating fungal pathogens, they can also contribute to corneal tissue damage. The Annexin A1 (AnxA1)-Fpr2/ALX signaling pathway has been widely studied in infectious disease models for its protective role in regulating immune cell recruitment and inflammatory responses; however, its precise involvement in CK remains insufficiently understood. This study aimed to investigate the contribution of the AnxA1-Fpr2/ALX signaling pathway to the pathogenesis of CK.Transcriptomic analysis was performed to characterize the dynamic immune landscape in a Candida parapsilosis-induced CK mouse model. Bioinformatic analyses were conducted to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs), perform functional enrichment analysis, and evaluate immune cell infiltration, with particular emphasis on the activation and immunoregulatory role of the AnxA1-Fpr2/ALX signaling pathway. Changes in the expression of relevant pathway components were further assessed using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), immunohistochemistry (IHC), Western blotting (WB), and flow cytometry (FACS). To evaluate the functional role of this pathway, CK mice were treated with the Fpr2 agonist Ac2-26 (an AnxA1 mimetic peptide) and compared with PBS-treated controls through slit-lamp examination, immunofluorescence staining, and WB analysis. In addition, Fpr2 knockout (KO) mice were used to disrupt AnxA1-Fpr2/ALX signaling, and disease progression was assessed using slit-lamp examination, WB, and IHC. Furthermore, co-culture experiments of immune cells with C. parapsilosis were performed to identify the principal immune effector cells involved in the AnxA1-Fpr2/ALX signaling pathway.CK mice exhibited dynamic immune responses consistent with clinical findings, transcriptional changes, and immune cell infiltration, with peak activity at 1-day post-infection (dpi). As the disease progressed, marked alterations in metabolic pathways, immune responses, and corneal repair processes were observed. Innate immune cell infiltration showed distinct temporal patterns: macrophages and dendritic cells gradually increased, whereas neutrophils peaked early and declined during inflammation resolution. Infected corneas displayed elevated expression of AnxA1-Fpr2/ALX signaling components. Treatment with Ac2-26 significantly reduced corneal inflammatory infiltration and inflammatory mediator expression. In contrast, Fpr2 deficiency aggravated CK progression, resulting in more severe clinical manifestations and enhanced inflammation. Furthermore, total Fpr2 expression and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production were markedly upregulated in neutrophils following co-culture with C. parapsilosis.This study characterizes the dynamic immune responses in CK and highlights the critical role of AnxA1-Fpr2/ALX signaling in the pathogenesis of fungal keratitis. These findings provide new insights into host immune regulation and suggest that targeting the AnxA1-Fpr2/ALX pathway may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for CK.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is characterized by profound immunosuppression and limited responsiveness to conventional T cell-based therapies and immune checkpoint blockade. Here, we establish a human microglial cell line to explore the concept of a brain-adapted platform for chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) expression targeting GBM. We engineered human microglial cells with anti‑carbonic anhydrase IX (CAIX) CARs incorporating either CD28 or 4-1BB costimulatory domains, alone or co-expressing anti-programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) monoclonal antibodies (mAbs). Our results demonstrate that CAIX-targeted CAR-engineered microglia-like cells (CAR-MG) mediate potent, antigen-dependent tumor killing in vitro, with CD28-based constructs exhibiting superior antitumor efficacy and a robust pro-inflammatory cytokine profile. Furthermore, local secretion of anti-PD-L1 synergized with CAIX-targeting to significantly reduce tumor burden in vivo - an effect closely associated with the successful reprogramming of infiltrating myeloid cells toward an M1-like anti-tumoral state, evidenced by an increase in the frequency of cells expressing CD38, CD86, and HLA-DR. Notably, the anti-PD-L1 secretory platform downregulated tumor-derived PD-L1, effectively remodeling the immunosuppressive glioblastoma microenvironment. These findings suggest that this engineered microglial cell line platform has the potential to heat the immunologically "cold" GBM microenvironment. Together, these results identify CAIX-targeted engineered CAR-MG as an effective immunotherapeutic approach and support further development of CNS-targeted immune cells to overcome key barriers to cellular immunotherapy in GBM.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Psychedelic drugs, such as lysergic acid diethylamide and psilocybin, have emerged as potentially transformative therapeutics for various neuropsychiatric conditions, including depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, migraine and cluster headaches. Classical psychedelics exert their effects through activation of 5-hydroxytryptamine 2A receptors (HTR2As). Here we provide a suite of engineered mice that will be useful for clarifying the role of HTR2A in psychedelic drug actions. We generated Htr2aEGFP-CreERT2 mice to identify both HTR2A-EGFP-CT receptors and HTR2A-containing cells, thereby revealing HTR2A distribution in the brain. We also generated humanized Htr2aA242S-EGFP-Cre and constitutive Htr2aCre mice. Psychedelic-induced behavioral changes in these mice validated their utility for these studies. Electrophysiological investigations on brain sections from these mice revealed that 2,5,-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine induced robust increases in firing of genetically identified pyramidal neurons. These mouse lines are valuable tools for investigating the molecular, cellular, pharmacological, physiological, behavioral and other mechanisms of psychedelic actions in vivo.© 2026. The Author(s).
Clear cell renal cell carcinoma exhibits striking intra-tumoral heterogeneity at morphological and genetic levels, complicating treatment and contributing to disease progression. CcRCCs with rhabdoid differentiation are highly aggressive tumors characterized by distinct histopathologies. However, the relationship between morphology, underlying molecular alterations, and tumor behavior remains largely unclear. Here, we present Deep Visual Multi-Omics, an approach integrating digital pathology, morphology-guided single-cell isolation, and ultra-sensitive multi-omics profiling to link cell morphologies to their molecular underpinnings. Across five tumors, we profiled ~40,000 AI-classified and expert-curated cells. We identified progressive molecular dysregulation across cells with increasing histopathological grade coexisting within heterogeneous tumors as well as distinct molecular alterations associated with aggressive rhabdoid ccRCC cells, including signatures consistent with enhanced FOXM1-driven proliferation, altered cell-matrix interactions, and a putative immunomodulatory phenotype. Notably, rhabdoid cells exhibited elevated expression of IFN-beta, PD-L1, CD38, ITGB2, and integrin signaling, suggesting that they themselves may act as a source of signals influencing the local immune microenvironment. Besides providing new insights into the biology of ccRCC and highlighting avenues for future translational studies, this illustrates the potential of Deep Visual Multi-omics to dissect cancer heterogeneity and characterize high-risk cell populations.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42555232 is a review article
Antibody-mediated rejection (ABMR) is a major cause of chronic allograft dysfunction and graft loss after kidney transplantation (KTx). Daratumumab, antibody targeting the transmembrane glycoprotein CD38 (cluster of differentiation) on immune cells, has shown promise in the treatment of refractory ABMR in adult solid organ transplantation; however, pediatric data are scarce.We report two pediatric cases of refractory ABMR after KTx treated with daratumumab with followed-up protocol biopsies over 10-12 months. Treatment consisted of an induction phase with five weekly doses followed by maintenance dosing every two to four weeks. Donor-specific antibodies (DSAs), kidney function, albuminuria, and histologic response were assessed.The first case, a 10-year-old girl with recurrent ABMR after KTx showed histologic improvement from active ABMR with C4d positivity, glomerulitis, and severe microvascular inflammation to predominantly chronic changes without signs of active rejection. Microvascular inflammation became mild and C4d staining turned negative. The second case, a 9-year-old boy with active and chronic antiglomerular basement membrane disease and severe transplant ABMR glomerulopathy initially showed progression of chronic injury, followed by complete histologic resolution of active disease, disappearance of C4d staining, minimal fibrosis (<1%), and marked reduction of albuminuria after 10 months. Both patients demonstrated reduced DSA levels, stabilization of graft function, and no serious adverse events.Daratumumab was associated with histologic improvement, reduction of microvascular inflammation, and stabilization of graft function in two children with refractory ABMR after KTx. Controlled studies to determine the safety, efficacy, and optimal dosage of daratumumab in children with ABMR are needed.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the ERA.
Diabetic steatohepatitis, now clinically framed within metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH), features progressive disruption of hepatic microarchitecture alongside sterile inflammatory microdomains. Farnesoid X receptor (FXR) activity is restrained by acetylation and p300 recruitment. CD38-driven NAD+ depletion also limits SIRT1 activity, suggesting a linked regulatory axis. We tested whether combined CD38 inhibition and FXR activation reprogram acetylation-dependent FXR complexes, restore hepatic tissue organization, and suppress NLRP3 inflammasome signaling. Male rats with diabetic steatohepatitis received vehicle, CD38 inhibition, FXR activation, or the combination. Outcomes included steatohepatitis activity score, fibrosis burden, lipid and glucose homeostasis, insulin resistance indices, and NLRP3 pathway activity, including caspase-1, IL-1β, and IL-18. Diabetic steatohepatitis induced hepatic architectural disorganization, dyslipidemia, insulin resistance, and activation of the NLRP3-caspase-1-IL-1β/IL-18 axis. Single-pathway modulation improved these abnormalities, whereas combined CD38 inhibition and FXR activation produced the greatest reductions in steatohepatitis activity score and the most consistent normalization of metabolic indices with no evidence of overt toxicity. Diabetic steatohepatitis tissue exhibited FXR hyperacetylation and increased FXR association with p300 and NLRP3; combination therapy reduced FXR acetylation and weakened both interactions. Pharmacologic disruption of SIRT1 or FXR partially reversed metabolic, inflammatory, and molecular effects, while selective inflammasome inhibition lowered inflammasome outputs without altering the CD38-NAD+-SIRT1 node. Together, coordinated restoration of NAD+/SIRT1 activity and FXR signaling reprograms FXR acetylation, disengages inflammasome signaling, and improves hepatic tissue organization in diabetic steatohepatitis.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Castleman disease (CD) is a group of rare and heterogeneous lymphoproliferative disorders. Accurate diagnosis and subtyping remain challenging. This report describes a rare case of idiopathic multicentric Castleman disease, not otherwise specified (iMCD-NOS), highlighting the causes of misdiagnosis, diagnostic strategy, and critical features of clinical subtyping.A 53-year-old male presented with a 4-month history of persistent right submandibular lymphadenopathy. During this period, he experienced two febrile episodes (max temp 39.0 °C), each lasting 2 days, without associated respiratory symptoms. The fever resolved following intravenous antibiotic therapy at a local hospital, however, the lymphadenopathy did not improve and progressively enlarged. Core needle biopsy of the right submandibular lymph node at another municipal hospital revealed acute and chronic inflammation with fibrosis. He also reported occasional low-grade fever and night sweats, prompting admission to our hospital for further evaluation. On admission, physical examination revealed the largest lymph node measuring approximately 2.5 × 2.0 cm and purplish-red papules on the bilateral lower extremities. Laboratory findings revealed leukocytosis, eosinophilia, platelet (PLT) count: 296 × 109/L (Normal), elevated C-reactive protein (66.31 mg/L), and increased interleukin-6 (13.78 pg./mL). PET-CT demonstrated metabolically active lymphadenopathy involving the bilateral cervical, submandibular, supraclavicular, retroperitoneal, and pelvic regions, suggestive of a neoplastic process. Under general anesthesia, an excisional biopsy of a right cervical lymph node was performed. Histopathological examination revealed disrupted lymph node architecture, with the presence of both atrophic and hyperplastic follicles. A subset of follicles showed an "onion-skin" appearance, accompanied by hyaline degeneration of small vessel walls in the paracortical region. The borders between the paracortex and lymphatic sinuses were indistinct, and proliferation of lymphocytes and plasma cells was observed in the sinus areas. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated CD38 positivity in the cortex and medullary sinuses, CD138 positivity in the cortex and paracortex, as well as positive staining for IgG4 and IgG. The pathological diagnosis was mixed-type Castleman disease. In the light of the patient's multicentric lymph node involvement, systemic inflammatory symptoms, elevated inflammatory markers, and the exclusion of HHV-8 infection as well as features suggestive of TAFRO or IPL, a final diagnosis of iMCD-NOS was made. Given the rarity of the disease and the limited experience with its management in our department, the patient was referred to the Department of Hematology at Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine. Following treatment with siltuximab plus prednisone, the patient's symptoms improved markedly, with resolution of fever and no recurrence of submandibular or cervical lymphadenopathy.This case illustrates the diagnostic challenges of idiopathic multicentric Castleman disease-not otherwise specified (iMCD-NOS) and underscores the importance of excisional biopsy over core needle biopsy, systematic exclusion of differential diagnoses, and multidisciplinary collaboration. The patient's journey through three hospitals before diagnosis offers three key lessons for clinicians: (1) The possibility of Castleman disease should be considered when a triad of unexplained lymphadenopathy, systemic symptoms, and elevated inflammatory markers is present. (2) When multicentric lymphadenopathy coexists with systemic inflammation, excisional biopsy-rather than core needle biopsy-is essential for an accurate diagnosis. (3) Systematic exclusion of HHV-8 infection, TAFRO/IPL features, and other mimickers is mandatory for proper iMCD-NOS subtyping. Enhanced awareness of this disease, as provided by this report, may facilitate early recognition and reduce diagnostic delays.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Wang, Wang, Peng, Bao, Shi, Xiao, Zhang, Wang, Liao, Pan and Teng.
Alemtuzumab, a monoclonal antibody targeting CD52, is associated with a high incidence of secondary autoimmune disease, most commonly thyroid dysfunction. Alemtuzumab-induced Graves' disease (AIGD) typically follows a relapsing course and may exhibit atypical or severe phenotypes during immune reconstitution (IR).We report a case of severe thyrotoxicosis following alemtuzumab therapy for multiple sclerosis, complicated by the development of thyroid eye disease (TED) and pretibial myxoedema (PTM). Despite escalation of antithyroid therapy, biochemical and clinical control remained suboptimal. Radioiodine therapy was not pursued due to the presence of established orbitopathy. Given persistent severe disease and extrathyroidal manifestations, definitive management with total thyroidectomy was undertaken.Thyroidectomy resulted in rapid biochemical control of thyrotoxicosis. thyroid-stimulating hormone-receptor antibody (TRAb) remained markedly elevated after thyroidectomy, indicating persistent autoimmune activity despite removal of the thyroid gland.This case highlights an aggressive and uncommon presentation of AIGD characterised by severe thyrotoxicosis, orbitopathy and PTM. Clinicians should recognise the potential for atypical and refractory disease following alemtuzumab therapy. In selected cases, early consideration of definitive therapy is warranted, particularly when radioiodine is considered unsuitable.Copyright © 2026 Aongus O’Brolchain and Elham Reda. Case Reports in Endocrinology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Synthetic oxytocin (Pitocin) is the most commonly used pharmacologic agent for induction and augmentation of labor. Beyond its uterotonic effects, oxytocin plays a critical role in neurodevelopment and social behavior. Dysregulated oxytocin signaling has been implicated in autism spectrum disorder (ASD), raising concern that perinatal exposure to exogenous oxytocin may have lasting neurodevelopmental consequences. This study aimed to determine whether offspring harboring a genetic predisposition for ASD are differentially impacted by perinatal oxytocin exposures, with a focus on long-term oxytocin signaling and autism-like behavior. Pregnant mice carrying offspring with heterozygous mutations in phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome ten (Pten), a well-established monogenic risk factor for ASD, received continuous oxytocin versus phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) control via micro-osmotic pumps during late gestation. Wild-type (WT) offspring exposed to each treatment served as a secondary control. Adult offspring were assessed for oxytocin receptor (Oxtr) methylation in the frontal cortex and hippocampus, oxytocin expression in the hypothalamus, serum oxytocin levels, and were subject to a battery of social and anxiety-related behavior tests. Perinatal oxytocin exposure produced genotype-dependent effects in offspring. Epigenetic analyses revealed bidirectional remodeling of Oxtr methylation in the frontal cortex and hippocampus, with increased exon 1 methylation in WT mice and decreased methylation in Pten-mutant mice, resulting in significant genotype-treatment interactions. Hypothalamic oxytocin expression increased following treatment regardless of genotype, though baseline levels were higher in Pten-mutant mice. Neither oxytocin treatment nor genotype impacted long-term serum oxytocin levels. Behavioral outcomes were modest but context-specific: repetitive behaviors and cognition performance were unchanged, but oxytocin-treated Pten-mutant mice exhibited increased anxiety-like behavior alongside improved social memory. In contrast, oxytocin-treated WT mice showed reduced social novelty preference. Exploratory analyses suggested potential sex-dependent trends. Our findings support a model in which genetic susceptibility shapes the epigenetic encoding of early-life hormonal signals, thereby recalibrating oxytocin system function and downstream behavioral outcomes. Together, these data highlight the context-dependent effects of perinatal oxytocin exposure and argue against uniformly beneficial or detrimental effects, emphasizing the importance of gene-environment interactions in neurodevelopmental trajectories.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Background: Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI) is a rare disorder characterized by renal resistance to arginine vasopressin, most commonly caused by pathogenic variants in the AVPR2 gene. While X-linked NDI classically affects males, heterozygous females may exhibit variable clinical expression. Certain AVPR2 variants are associated with partial NDI and milder phenotypes. Methods: We conducted a retrospective family study of a multigenerational Greek pedigree with suspected hereditary NDI. Clinical, biochemical, and pedigree data were collected through chart review and family interviews. Genetic analysis was performed using whole-exome sequencing, and variant interpretation followed ACMG/AMP guidelines. Results: Fourteen individuals across four generations were evaluated. Molecular analysis identified a familial AVPR2 (NM_000054.7):c.964C>T (p.Pro322Ser) missense variant in three males and three females, with obligate carrier status inferred in two deceased females, segregating in an X-linked pattern. Hemizygous males exhibited a broad phenotypic spectrum, ranging from partial NDI with later onset to severe early-onset disease with urinary tract complications. Heterozygous females showed variable expression, from asymptomatic carriers to mildly symptomatic individuals. The variant co-segregated with disease and, based on ACMG criteria, it was classified as pathogenic. Conclusions: In our family, the AVPR2 c.964C>T (p.Pro322Ser) variant was associated with a remarkably broad clinical spectrum, ranging from asymptomatic heterozygous females to severe early-onset disease with urinary tract complications in affected males. These observations emphasize the need for early molecular diagnosis, systematic evaluation of female carriers, and long-term surveillance to prevent disease-related complications and optimize genetic counselling.
Maternal and paternal attachment may relate differently to adolescent depressive symptoms, but the potential contribution of oxytocin receptor (OXTR) gene single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) to these associations remains unclear. This six-month longitudinal study included 746 seventh- and tenth-grade students (50.7% female) from Guangzhou, China. Parent-child attachment and saliva samples for genotyping were collected at baseline, and depressive symptoms were assessed at follow-up using the CES-D-10. Overall, 48.8% of adolescents screened positive for depressive symptoms. Compared with adolescents below the cutoff, those who screened positive reported lower parental trust/communication and higher alienation (all p < 0.01). In adjusted linear regression models, father-child trust/communication was negatively associated with subsequent depressive symptoms (β = -0.26, p < 0.01), whereas mother-child alienation was positively associated with subsequent depressive symptoms (β = 0.15, p = 0.02). Exploratory moderation analyses showed a nominal rs2254295 × mother-child alienation interaction before correction (β = -0.07, p = 0.046), but this effect did not survive FDR correction. Father-child trust/communication and mother-child alienation showed distinct associations with adolescent depressive symptoms. The possible moderating role of OXTR rs2254295 should be regarded as preliminary and requires replication in larger independent samples.
Natural products are a valuable source of antihypertensive agents; however, most studies have focused on multitarget effects or extract-level activity, limiting mechanism-specific interpretation and drug development. Here, a structure-driven screening strategy was applied to identify phytochemicals targeting CACNA1C, ADRB1, and AGTR1, key pharmacological targets of antihypertensive therapy. Quantitative structure-activity relationship models were developed using ChEMBL datasets (11,452 for CACNA1C, 612 for ADRB1, and 291 for AGTR1) and demonstrated robust predictive performance (AUC = 0.973), which was maintained under scaffold split and cross-validation. The SHAP-based interpretation revealed target-specific structural features, followed by pharmacophore profiling, chemical space analysis, and network-based prioritization. Overall, 10,586 natural compounds were screened and the top 5% per target (530 compound-target edges) were selected, revealing that 83.5% of the compounds were target-specific. Chemical space analysis revealed the predicted compounds occupied diverse and partially orthogonal regions compared with approved drugs, indicating scaffold diversification. Representative compounds selected based on docking, ADMET, and structural criteria predicted to form stable binding interactions in 100 ns molecular dynamics simulations, with consistent RMSD stabilization and favorable MM-PBSA binding free energies (-29.17 to -36.59 kJ/mol). Although source plants have reported antihypertensive effects, direct evidence in the literature linking individual compounds to specific pharmacological targets remains limited. Overall, this study presents a multilayer validation framework for the computational prioritization of antihypertensive phytochemicals, facilitating their potential integration of natural products into established pharmacological paradigms. This approach provides a strategy for prioritizing structurally diverse and computationally target-aligned candidates and may facilitate the translation of traditional herbal knowledge into modern target-based drug discovery.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Chronic social isolation and loneliness are associated with several neuropsychiatric disorders including depression and anxiety. Given its ability to modulate a wide range of processes linked to social interactions, the therapeutic potential of the neuropeptide oxytocin has gathered interest. However, its effects are highly context-dependent, highlighting the need for preclinical models that better capture the breadth of human social interactions and the consequences of their loss. The socially monogamous prairie vole carries a high translational value due to its ability to form enduring social attachments. Here, we aimed at characterizing the role of the oxytocin neurotransmission in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) in the negative consequences of social isolation in prairie voles. Following six weeks of isolation, females exhibited an avoidance of the open arms of an elevated plus maze EPM), lower NAc oxytocin receptor (OXTR) expression, and reduced activation of oxytocin neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) that project to the NAc. Using a combination of site- and projection-specific pharmacological and chemogenetic approaches, we show that the activation of oxytocin neurotransmission in the NAc originating from the PVN reverses the avoidance-related behaviors in the EPM induced by isolation in an OXTR-dependent manner, whereas its blockade promotes avoidance-related behaviors in group-housed control females. Altogether, our findings delineate a model in which the promotion of avoidance-related behaviors following social isolation in female prairie voles is mediated by a dampened response of PVN-to-NAc oxytocin projections, providing additional insights into the negative consequences of social isolation associated with anxiety disorders.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Resistance to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and oxaliplatin (OXT) remains a major cause of treatment failure in colorectal cancer (CRC). Luteolin, a dietary flavonoid with anticancer properties, has shown therapeutic potential in various malignancies, but its effects on chemotherapy-resistant CRC remain poorly understood. In this study, we investigated whether luteolin restores chemosensitivity in 5-FU-resistant (SNUC5/5-FUR) and OXT-resistant (SNUC5/OXTR) CRC cells and explored the underlying molecular mechanisms. Luteolin reduced cell viability and induced apoptosis in both resistant cell lines. Mechanistically, luteolin suppressed β-catenin expression by downregulating ten-eleven translocation (TET) proteins, increasing DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) expression, enhancing CpG methylation, and reducing TET1 occupancy at the β-catenin promoter. Luteolin also decreased thymine DNA glycosylase (TDG) expression, disrupted the TET1/TDG interaction, and reduced TDG recruitment to the β-catenin promoter. Consistently, knockdown of either TET1 or TDG decreased β-catenin expression, while luteolin further enhanced apoptosis in siTET1-or siTDG-transfected resistant cells. Additionally, luteolin attenuated intracellular reactive oxygen species accumulation and potentiated the cytotoxic effects of 5-FU and OXT in resistant CRC cells. These findings demonstrate that luteolin reverses chemoresistance by suppressing the TET1/TDG-β-catenin axis through epigenetic regulation and modulation of intracellular redox homeostasis, supporting its potential as an adjuvant for CRC chemotherapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301317
Skipped: PubMed ID 42494863 is a review article
Osteosarcoma (OSA) is the most common primary malignant bone tumor and is characterized by high mortality, early metastatic dissemination, and extensive vascularization. Although overexpression of Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A (VEGF-A) is associated with poor prognosis, clinical responses to the anti-VEGF-A monoclonal antibody Bevacizumab (BEVA) have been limited. Desmopressin (dDAVP), a hemostatic agent that acts as a selective arginine vasopressin receptor 2 (AVPR2) agonist, has demonstrated antitumor and angiostatic properties in other malignancies, however, its role in OSA remains incompletely characterized. This study evaluated the therapeutic potential of dDAVP as a coadjuvant strategy to enhance BEVA efficacy in OSA.Bioinformatic analyses of AVPR2 expression and its associations with tumor aggressiveness, immune and stromal infiltration markers, and clinical outcomes were performed using TCGA-SARC and TARGET-OS datasets. Endothelial proliferation, migration, and morphogenesis were assessed in HmVEC-L and HMEC-1 microvascular cells. Antitumor activity was evaluated in human (MG-63) and murine (K7M3) OSA models. In vivo activity was assessed using xenogeneic and syngeneic models of tumor growth, metastasis, and tumor-associated angiogenesis. Combined dDAVP + BEVA therapy was evaluated in vitro and in vivo. Histopathological endpoints included mitotic index, desmoplasia, vimentin expression, and tumor necrosis.Exploratory transcriptomic analyses revealed that AVPR2 expression was inversely associated with proangiogenic, prosurvival, and prometastatic gene signatures, while positively correlating with immune and stromal infiltration markers. Elevated AVPR2 expression was also associated with improved survival in both the pan-sarcoma cohort and a pediatric OSA subset. dDAVP significantly reduced pulmonary metastasis and OSA-driven vascularization in vivo and inhibited endothelial proliferation, migration, and morphogenesis in vitro. Under tumor-conditioned conditions, dDAVP enhanced the antivascular activity of BEVA. Combined treatment with clinically relevant doses of dDAVP and BEVA significantly inhibited OSA xenograft progression without overt toxicity and favorably modulated histopathological markers of tumor aggressiveness.These findings support further translational evaluation of dDAVP as a potential adjuvant therapy in OSA, particularly in combination with BEVA. By targeting complementary angiogenesis-related mechanisms, this dual antiangiogenic strategy may improve therapeutic efficacy in OSA.Copyright © 2026 Solernó, Llavona, Saud, Onassis, Gottardo, Ledesma, Alonso and Garona.
Alcohol use disorder (AUD) remains a significant global health challenge, necessitating the exploration of novel pharmacotherapeutics. Our recent study observed that intranasal (IN) administration of arginine vasopressin (AVP) decreases voluntary consumption of sweetened ethanol (EtOH) in mice, a promising development, given that IN AVP does not affect the blood pressure or stress responses associated with systemic AVP administration. To characterize AVP's potential to regulate alcohol drinking, here we investigated the effects of IN AVP on voluntary intake of unsweetened ethanol (EtOH) in single- and group-housed mice, the involvement of AVP and Oxytocin (Oxt) receptors, and the potential neural substrates of these effects.Experiment 1 examined the effects of treatments on two-bottle choice (2 BC) drinking in single-housed C57BL/6J mice. Experiment 2 examined the effects of treatments on 2 BC drinking in group-housed C57BL/6J mice. Experiment 3 examined the effects of IN AVP on c-Fos expression in brain regions containing AVP and Oxt receptors in group-housed C57BL/6J mice.IN AVP (1.0 mg/kg) decreased EtOH intake in single-housed mice, an effect attenuated by pretreatment with Avpr1a, Avpr1b, or Oxtr antagonists. A higher dose of AVP (3.0 mg/kg) also inhibited EtOH intake in single-housed mice, and this effect was blocked by the Avpr1a antagonist SR-49059. In group-housed mice, IN AVP (3.0 mg/kg) decreased EtOH intake, an effect blocked by the Avpr1a antagonist or Avpr1b antagonist. IN AVP (3.0 mg/kg) induced c-Fos expression in the central nucleus of amygdala (CeA).IN AVP decreases voluntary EtOH intake in both single- and group-housed mice. The suppressive effects of IN AVP involve Avpr1a in single-housed mice. In group-housed mice, this effect involves Avpr1a and Avpr1b and engages the CeA. These findings suggest IN AVP may be a potential therapeutic target for AUD, warranting its further investigation.© 2026 Research Society on Alcohol.
Primary cutaneous T-lymphomas (CTCL), particularly in their early stages, frequently present with clinical and histopathologic features that overlap with atopic dermatitis (AD) and psoriasis, contributing to diagnostic delay and ineffective, or even deleterious, treatment approaches. Thus, minimally invasive molecular tests capable of distinguishing CTCL from benign inflammatory dermatoses are urgently needed.To determine whether tape strip transcriptomics can detect disease-specific signatures distinguishing early-stage CTCL from AD, psoriasis, and healthy control (HC) skin.Bulk RNA sequencing was performed on lesional and non-lesional tape strips from patients with mycosis fungoides (MF) (n=18), AD (n=36), psoriasis (n=32), and HC skin (n=30).Principal component analysis revealed distinct clustering of MF, AD, and psoriasis lesional skin relative to HC. MF displayed a mixed immune profile, contrasting with the strong Th2 and Th17/Th22 immune polarization of AD and psoriasis, respectively. Upregulated MF genes were involved in immune checkpoint regulation (CTLA4, ICOS), lymphoid trafficking (CCR7, CCR8), antigen presentation (HLA-DRA, LAMP3), T-cell survival (TNFSF13B, BIRC3), metabolism (BCAT1, ENPP4, LIPA), as well as cell structure and homeostasis (CLIC2, DOCK10, EPB41L3, MCOLN2, MS4A14, S100B). We identified a 5-marker gene classifier (including IL36A) that accurately distinguished MF from both AD and psoriasis, which was validated in an independent dataset.By capturing MF-specific signatures that are distinct from AD and psoriasis, tape stripping has the potential to serve as a diagnostic tool to help differentiate MF from its non-malignant mimickers.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
To investigate the effect of post-operative ganciclovir therapy on transplant-free liver survival in children with biliary atresia (BA) complicated by cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection, and to propose an intervention mechanism hypothesis based on the 'CMV-hepatic stellate cell-fibrosis-long-term prognosis' pathogenic axis.This retrospective study included children diagnosed with BA complicated by CMV infection at a tertiary children's hospital between January 2017 and October 2023. Patients were divided into a treatment group and a non-treatment group based on whether ganciclovir was administered for ≥ 1 week within 3 months after Kasai portoenterostomy (KPE). All patients had follow-up of at least 2 years by 1 October 2025. Baseline characteristics and clinical outcomes (transplant-free liver survival time and 3-month post-operative jaundice clearance rate) were compared between groups. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to generate survival curves, and differences were assessed using the Log-Rank test. Evidence from basic and clinical research was integrated to construct a mechanistic hypothesis diagram for CMV-driven hepatic fibrosis and antiviral intervention.A total of 17 children with BA were included, with 6 in the treatment group and 11 in the non-treatment group. Baseline characteristics indicated no significant differences between the two groups in terms of sex, hepatic fibrosis stage, age at surgery, preoperative DBIL and other clinical indicators, demonstrating balanced comparability (p > 0.05). Comparison of clinical outcomes and Kaplan-Meier survival curves showed that transplant-free liver survival time was significantly longer in the treatment group than in the non-treatment group: 1518 (217, 2825) versus 190 (83, 265) days, p = 0.035; the survival curve showed an improving trend (Log-Rank p = 0.087). The 3-month post-operative jaundice clearance rate did not differ significantly between groups (p > 0.05). The mechanistic hypothesis diagram suggested that CMV may activate hepatic stellate cells via multiple pathways, including CCL19/CCR7 and TGF-β, accelerating fibrosis progression, while ganciclovir may block this process.Ganciclovir antiviral therapy may be associated with improved transplant-free liver survival in CMV-positive children with BA, exerting a specific effect on long-term fibrosis progression rather than short-term bile drainage. This clinical observation aligns with the 'CMV-fibrosis-long-term prognosis' pathogenic axis hypothesis and provides preliminary evidence for clinical antiviral treatment.© 2026 Paediatrics and Child Health Division (The Royal Australasian College of Physicians).
X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH) is a rare genetic disorder caused by PHEX mutations, leading to hypophosphatemia and impaired bone mineralization. Burosumab, a monoclonal antibody targeting FGF23, improves phosphate levels and bone health. Although burosumab improves musculoskeletal pain, it remains unclear whether this benefit results solely from restoration of phosphate homeostasis or also involves immunomodulatory mechanisms. Given the role of FGF23 in modulating macrophage function and the involvement of TRPV1 - expressed by macrophages - in pain transmission, we investigated the effects of burosumab on macrophage polarisation and TRPV1 expression in children with XLH.Macrophages were isolated from untreated XLH patients (n=4), burosumab-treated XLH patients (n=8), and healthy donors (n=5). Western blot was used to assess M1 (CCR7, CD86, iNOS) and M2 (CD206, p-STAT6) markers, as well as TRPV1 expression. To evaluate burosumab's direct effects, macrophages from healthy donors were stimulated with LPS and treated with 1.5 or 3 μg/mL burosumab, followed by the same analyses.Untreated XLH macrophages predominantly exhibited an M1 phenotype with higher TRPV1 protein levels compared to healthy controls. In contrast, macrophages from burosumab-treated patients showed a tendency to acquire an M2-like phenotype and reduced TRPV1 expression. Similar effects were observed in vitro, with LPS-stimulated healthy macrophages shifting toward the M2 phenotype and showing decreased TRPV1 after burosumab exposure.In untreated XLH patients, macrophages exhibit a pro-inflammatory M1 phenotype with upregulated TRPV1 expression. Burosumab reverses this profile, driving M2 polarization and reducing TRPV1 levels, thereby suggesting that it exerts therapeutic effects beyond phosphate homeostasis through immunomodulation.X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH) causes rickets and chronic pain. We found that immune cells from untreated patients show a pro-inflammatory profile. Treatment with burosumab shifted these immune cells toward an anti-inflammatory state and reduced the expression of TRPV1, a molecule involved in neuroimmune signaling, suggesting that burosumab may exert biological effects beyond bone health.© the author(s).
Adipose tissue remodelling, encompassing white adipose tissue (WAT) browning alongside brown adipose tissue (BAT) activation, holds promise for combating obesity, yet the endogenous chemokine receptors that restrain this plasticity remain ill-defined. Here, we uncover that C‒C chemokine receptor 1 (CCR1) restrains adipocyte remodelling and energy expenditure.A high-fat diet (HFD) was provided to systemic and adipocyte-specific Ccr1 knockout mice. The CCR1-selective antagonist BX471 was administered to HFD-fed wild-type (WT) mice as a preventive regimen. Energy expenditure was assessed via indirect calorimetry; BAT thermogenic activity and WAT beiging were quantified through histology and gene expressin analyses. Adipose tissue macrophage homeostasis was analysed via flow cytometry. Peritoneal macrophages were differentiated into either the M1 or M2 state, and conditioned media were applied to the adipocytes.In HFD-fed mice, Ccr1 ablation conferred resistance to obesity and insulin resistance, coupled with enhanced WAT browning, augmented BAT thermogenesis and elevated energy expenditure. These metabolic benefits were associated with a shift towards M2 macrophage polarisation and reduced adipose tissue inflammation. Adipocyte-specific Ccr1 knockout recapitulated these phenotypes. BX471 administration in WT mice phenocopied the metabolic effects of Ccr1 deficiency under HFD conditions. Mechanistically, in vitro experiments suggested that Ccr1 loss suppressed Gαi-dependent signalling, leading to increased intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and subsequent protein kinase A/cAMP-response element-binding protein 1 (PKA/CREB) activation, thereby promoting thermogenic gene expression in adipocytes. In addition, conditioned media from M2-polarised macrophages enhanced thermogenic gene expression in adipocytes, and this effect was further potentiated in Ccr1-deficient adipocytes.CCR1 regulates adipose tissue remodelling and systemic energy expenditure, at least in part, through cAMP/PKA/CREB signalling and macrophage homeostasis. Pharmacological inhibition of CCR1 attenuates obesity development, suggesting a potential preventive strategy.CCR1 expression is significantly elevated in adipose tissue of obese individuals. Systemic and adipocyte-specific Ccr1 deletion promotes fat browning via cAMP/PKA/CREB activation and M2 macrophage polarisation, protecting against obesity. Pharmacological blockade of CCR1 suppresses obesity progression, highlighting its potential as a novel target for metabolic disorders.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical and Translational Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Shanghai Institute of Clinical Bioinformatics.
CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ dendritic cells (DCs) are pivotal players in orchestrating anti-tumor immune responses, particularly within tumor tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS). However, their heterogeneity, differentiation trajectories, and clinical relevance in bladder cancer remain incompletely defined. This study integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data (16 bladder cancer patients, 113,905 post-quality-control cells) and spatial transcriptomics to characterize CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets, their differentiation pathways (via Velocyto trajectory analysis), and intercellular crosstalk (via receptor-ligand mapping). A risk model (DTscore) was constructed using marker genes of these cells and validated in the IMvigor210 (atezolizumab-treated bladder cancer) and TCGA-BLCA cohorts. scRNA-seq clustering identified 10 immune and 3 nonimmune cell types, with T cells stratified into 8 subpopulations (including CD4+CXCL13+ T cells and CD8+CXCL13+ T cells) and DCs into 9 subgroups (including LAMP3+ DCs). Receptor-ligand mapping and spatial transcriptomics confirmed functional crosstalk between CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ DCs via key pairs (e.g., CCR7-CCL19, CXCR5-CXCL13, PDCD1-CD274) within TLS. The DTscore was developed using 8 marker genes (TSHZ2, ALOX5AP, GADD45G, TXN, CHN1, CCL19, CXCL13, ICA1) and exhibited robust prognostic and predictive performance: In the IMvigor210 cohort, high DTscore correlated with significantly poorer overall survival (OS) and a 3.27-fold lower immunotherapy response rate (11% vs. 36%, p = 4.23e-07); multivariate Cox regression confirmed DTscore as an independent OS predictor (hazard ratio = 1.97, p < 0.001). DTscore retained prognostic value in TCGA-BLCA (OS: p = 0.003; disease-specific survival: p < 0.001) and effectively predicted atezolizumab response even in the "immune desert" phenotype (p = 0.04). Combining DTscore with tumor mutational burden/tumor neoantigen burden yielded an AUC of 0.8122 for response prediction. Additionally, high DTscore was associated with higher OS hazard ratios in patients with wild-type TTN, RB1, EP300, or FGFR3 (all p < 0.01), while FGFR3 mutations correlated with lower immune checkpoint/CXCL13 expression. This study delineates the heterogeneity and interactions of CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets in bladder cancer TLS and validates DTscore as a robust tool for predicting OS and immunotherapy response, offering a potential guide for personalized bladder cancer treatment.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Single-cell transcriptomics identifies a convergent activation state of conventional dendritic cells (cDCs) shared by type 1 and type 2 cDCs (cDC1s and cDC2s). These activated DCs (actDCs) are characterized by co-expression of T cell-stimulating and inhibitory molecules. Here, we examined the functional contribution of actDCs to anti-tumor immunity by developing mouse models that leverage CCR7 expression to conditionally label or ablate actDCs. The capacity of cDCs to stimulate tumor-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) was restricted to the actDC state. cDC1- and cDC2-derived actDCs supported CTL priming through cross-presentation and cross-dressing, respectively, with the latter occurring in a cancer type-dependent manner. actDCs were required for the activation of naive CTLs in tumor-draining lymph nodes and for sustaining effector CTL function within tumors. Consequently, ablation of actDCs impaired spontaneous tumor control and responses to immune checkpoint blockade or adoptive T cell therapy. Thus, the actDC state emerges as a critical determinant of cDC-mediated anti-tumor immunity.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
C-C chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7) directs immune cell homing to secondary lymphoid organs and has been implicated in cancer metastasis through its ligands CCL19 and CCL21. Human CCR7 pre-mRNA undergoes alternative splicing to generate five transcripts that encode three protein isoforms with distinct N-termini, termed CCR7A, CCR7B, and CCR7C, but their comparative properties and cross-regulation are not well defined. Here, we cloned these three isoforms and systematically characterized their expression, localization, signaling, and mutual interactions in mammalian cells under both strong (CMV) and weaker (ubiquitin C, UbiC) promoter control to reduce overexpression-related artifacts. Variant-specific RT-PCR revealed that transcripts encoding CCR7A (V1) and CCR7B (V2) predominate in diverse human cell lines, whereas CCR7C-encoding variants (V3-V5) are weakly expressed. EGFP imaging and HiBiT-based assays showed efficient plasma-membrane targeting of CCR7A, partial membrane localization and prominent perinuclear accumulation of CCR7C, and largely cytosolic retention of CCR7B. Under UbiC-driven expression, CCR7A mediated robust CCL19- and CCL21-induced Gi/o and Gq-like activation, intracellular Ca² ⁺ mobilization, ERK phosphorylation, GRK3-dependent Gβ1 recruitment, and β-arrestin1 binding, whereas CCR7C displayed weaker and mainly CCL19-biased signaling. CCR7B did not respond to either chemokine in any signaling readout and thus behaved as a non-signaling isoform. NanoBiT-based assays and co-immunoprecipitation demonstrated that all three isoforms form homo- and heterodimers, with particularly strong association between CCR7A and CCR7B. Co-expression of CCR7B reduced CCR7A surface expression and markedly attenuated chemokine-induced Ca² ⁺ responses, mini-Gi interaction, and β-arrestin1 recruitment, while confocal microscopy revealed redistribution of CCR7A-EGFP from the plasma membrane to intracellular compartments. Moreover, MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells, which express CCR7A and CCR7B transcripts, did not migrate toward CCL19 or CCL21 despite preserved motility toward low-serum medium. These findings identify CCR7A as the dominant functional isoform, CCR7C as a weak CCL19-biased receptor with inefficient membrane targeting, and CCR7B as a non-signaling dominant-negative isoform that dampens CCR7A-mediated responses, suggesting that CCR7 splicing fine-tunes chemokine responsiveness in immune and cancer cells.Copyright: © 2026 Cho et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Allergic rhinitis (AR) is a prevalent condition characterized by an immunoglobulin E (IgE)-mediated immune response. T follicular helper (TFH) cells regulate B-cell differentiation and antibody production, and circulating TFH2 cells are closely associated with type 2 humoral immunity and IgE-related responses in AR. However, whether AR is marked by isolated TFH2 expansion or broader remodeling of circulating TFH (cTFH) subsets, including TFH1-related heterogeneity, remains unclear.A total of 56 participants were enrolled, including 39 patients with AR and 17 healthy controls (HC). Flow cytometry was performed in 36 patients with AR and 14 HC to quantify cTFH subsets and activation states. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was conducted in an independent exploratory cohort comprising 3 patients with AR and 3 HC to characterize TFH transcriptional heterogeneity, based on canonical transcriptional programs.Flow cytometry demonstrated that cTFH2 cell frequencies were significantly increased in patients with AR and positively correlated with disease severity. Activated CCR7^low PD-1^high cTFH cells were also elevated, indicating enhanced TFH activation. Further scRNA-seq analysis identified six transcriptionally distinct TFH clusters, with TFH2-like transcriptional signatures enriched in patients with AR, consistent with flow cytometric findings. Notably, a GZMK+ TFH1 subset, enriched in cytotoxic genes, including GZMK, CCL5, and GZMA, was more abundant in patients with AR, a result corroborated by flow cytometry.This study demonstrates the expansion of cTFH2 and GZMK+ TFH1 subsets in patients with AR and highlights the phenotypic and transcriptional heterogeneity of cTFH cells. These findings suggest that peripheral TFH profiling may aid in characterizing systemic immune alterations in allergic inflammation. The scRNA-seq results should be interpreted as exploratory due to the limited sample size.© 2026 He et al.
Exposure to aristolochic acid (AA) has been strongly linked to the development of upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC), but the precise molecular mechanisms driving AA-associated carcinogenesis remain unclear, limiting effective prevention and treatment strategies. This study aimed to identify core target genes and explore the associated toxic mechanisms by integrating network toxicology, microarray analysis, machine learning, and experimental validation.Potential AA targets were identified from multiple databases. Differential expression and weighted gene co-expression network analyses were performed on microarray data from AA-related UTUC samples and matched normal urothelium samples to identify hub genes. Overlapping genes between AA-related targets and UTUC hub genes were considered potential pathogenic targets of AA-induced UTUC toxicity. To enhance the accuracy and predictive power, various machine learning algorithms were employed for gene selection. Molecular docking was performed to assess the binding affinity of AA to the core targets. Functional analysis was performed to elucidate potential toxic mechanisms. Gene expression was validated using quantitative real-time PCR in clinical samples from patients with AA-related UTUC and controls.In total, 379 AA target genes and 793 hub genes of UTUC were identified, leading to the identification of 20 shared genes that were considered potential pathogenic targets of AA-induced UTUC toxicity. Machine learning algorithms extracted five core target genes: AVPR1A, CFD, F10, SCN3A, and NPY1R. Molecular docking confirmed the stable binding of AA to these core targets. Functional analysis suggested that AA-induced UTUC may involve disruption of vascular homeostasis, calcium signaling, and immune modulation. The expression of core genes was successfully validated in clinical samples.This study integrated network toxicology, microarray analysis, machine learning, and experimental validation to comprehensively elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying AA-induced UTUC. The combined approach used in this study extends beyond the exploration of individual targets or pathways. Instead, it provides a comprehensive view of the toxic effects of AA through multiple targets and pathways, thereby offering a robust framework for understanding the complex toxicological processes of various harmful compounds. The findings of this study provide crucial insights into the toxicological mechanisms of AA with implications for therapeutic development and regulatory strategies. These insights offer guidance for improving the clinical applications and safety regulations of traditional medicines.We identified and validated five novel core target genes associated with AA-induced UTUC: AVPR1A, CFD, F10, SCN3A, and NPY1R. Functional investigations revealed that AA-induced UTUC may involve the disruption of vascular homeostasis, calcium signaling, and immune system modulation. Thes.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Comparing prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster), a species that forms lasting pair bonds and exhibits biparental care, with meadow voles (Microtus pennsylvanicus), a non-monogamous species showing maternal care only, provides a framework to examine the genomic basis of behavioral divergence over short evolutionary time. Here, we develop a simplified assembly approach combining PacBio HiFi and CiFi sequencing in a single library and run, producing high-quality contiguous chromosome-scale diploid prairie and meadow vole genomes (2.3 Gbp). Comparative analysis reveals substantial differences, including near-complete Y chromosome divergence and a prairie-vole-specific duplication of Avpr1a, a vasopressin receptor gene implicated in social bonding and autism in humans. These extensive genomic changes suggest rapid chromosome evolution as a driver of the dramatic Microtus radiation, generating ∼60 vole species in >2 million years. This single-library approach facilitates a simplified and more affordable assembly workflow, producing near-complete genomes of diverse species using one sequencing platform.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The α 1A-adrenergic receptor, encoded by ADRA1A, couples to heterotrimeric Gq/11 proteins, promoting intracellular calcium mobilization and PKC activation. In human hepatocytes, it regulates acute metabolic responses and impacts gene expression. Although fundamental hepatic functions of ADRA1A have been described, its role in hepatocellular carcinoma remains elusive. We hypothesized that ADRA1A expressed in liver cancer tissue is part of a signaling repertoire potentially linked to patient outcomes. We analyzed The Cancer Genome Atlas liver cancer datasets and found ADRA1A gene deletion in 6% of patients and more prolonged survival of patients with high ADRA1A expression. Thus, we aimed to identify ADRA1A-signaling partners equally linked to more prolonged patient survival. Through a rational data mining strategy, based on the identification of the signaling repertoire linked to ADRA1A expression and statistical correlation with patient survival, we identified a transcriptional signature integrated by the adrenoceptor and five candidate signaling companions including two RhoGEFs: FGD4 and FARP2, a phospholipid phosphatase: PLPP6, a RabGAP: TBC1D2B, and an RTK adaptor: BAIAP2. Additionally, highly co-expressed GPCRs such as ACKR2, DRD1, ADRA1B, GPR17, S1PR1, and GPR182, and RTKs like KDR and TEK similarly integrated transcriptional signatures with ADRA1A that correlated with more prolonged survival. Most ADRA1A candidate signaling partners were well-co-expressed with hepatocyte markers, suggesting that integrating ADRA1A-associated signaling networks could improve liver cancer patients' prognosis.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s40203-026-00706-4.© The Author(s) 2026.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42531559
CD244, expressed in the tumor microenvironment (TME), is associated with impaired function of natural killer (NK) and T cells; however, its role in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) remains poorly understood. This study aimed to elucidate the immunological significance and regulatory mechanisms of CD244 in DLBCL.Using single-cell and bulk RNA sequencing, we analyzed CD244 expression patterns, its major intracellular adaptor molecules, and correlations with immune checkpoints, metabolic alterations, and immune activity. The clinical and biological implications of CD244 expression, including associations with clinicopathological characteristics, TME composition, prognosis, and response to immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapy, were investigated by integrating single-cell and bulk RNA sequencing, immunohistochemistry, and reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Intercellular communication networks, key transcription factors, and somatic mutations were further evaluated to uncover regulatory mechanisms.NK cells were the primary CD244-expressing population in DLBCL, co-overexpressing PDCD1, CTLA4, LAG3, TIGIT, PTGER4, and CD160. EAT2 was identified as CD244's predominant intracellular adaptor, suggesting that CD244-associated inhibitory signaling may contribute to metabolic dysregulation and immune dysfunction in NK cells. Elevated CD244 expression correlated with an immunosuppressive TME, worse clinicopathological features, poorer outcomes, and increased potential responsiveness to ICB. Furthermore, CD244 expression may be regulated by STAT3 activation in NK cells and ASXL3 mutations in tumor cells via the BTLA-TNFRSF14 pathway.This study highlights the critical role of CD244 in NK cell dysfunction and DLBCL progression, providing a promising target for optimizing immunotherapy.Copyright © 2026 Yang, Zeng, Yang, Liu, Li, Mai, Jian and Zhu.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42481317
To elucidate the therapeutic potential and mechanisms of Fuzi (Aconiti Lateralis Radix Praeparata) against intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC).Fuzi-related targets were obtained from TCMSP, HERB, and ETCM databases, and ICC-related differentially expressed genes were retrieved from Gene Expression Omnibus. Common hub targets were identified using network pharmacology and machine learning, followed by functional enrichment and immune infiltration analyses. Effects of aconitine, a major alkaloid of Fuzi, were validated in RBE cells using qPCR, Western blot, Transwell assays, and flow cytometry.Thirty-six common genes were identified, mainly enriched in metabolic and cancer-related pathways. Topoisomerase II alpha (TOP2A) and alpha1A-adrenergic receptor (ADRA1A) were identified as hub genes with high diagnostic value (area under curve>0.98). High TOP2A expression was linked to poor disease-free survival. Several immune cells, including regulatory T cells, showed altered infiltration in ICC and correlated with hub gene expression. Aconitine inhibited the proliferation, migration, and invasion of RBE cells in a dose- and time-dependent manner (P<0.05 or P<0.01). It also induced G1 phase arrest and apoptosis, accompanied by modulation of Bcl-2 and Bax expression, and downregulation of TOP2A. TOP2A knockdown similarly reduced migration and invasion and altered Bcl-2/Bax expression, but had limited effects on apoptosis rate or cell cycle distribution.TOP2A was identified as Fuzi's potential therapeutic target in ICC, where its compound aconitine exerts antitumor effects by downregulating TOP2A, providing novel mechanistic insights and targeted therapy potential.© 2026. The Chinese Journal of Integrated Traditional and Western Medicine Press and Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
The preBötzinger Complex is among the few neural circuits where selective elimination of defined neuronal subpopulation is sufficient to destabilize a core autonomic function and can fatally impair breathing. Within this circuitry, neurons expressing the neurokinin-1 receptor (Tacr1/NK1R) and somatostatin (Sst) are critical subpopulations; Tacr1 + neurons respond to the neuropeptide substance P and are necessary for maintaining inspiratory rhythms, and ablation of Sst + neurons results in apneas. To further dissect and analyze the specific roles for Tacr1 + and Sst + cell types, we conducted a comprehensive transcriptomic analysis using single-nucleus RNA sequencing of enriched preBötC from neonatal C57BL/6J mice. Because respiratory rhythmogenesis is an inherently electrophysiological process, we focused on the ion channel transcriptomes of Tacr1 + and Sst+ populations to resolve the molecular underpinnings of their distinct contributions to breathing. A balanced Random Forest classifier distinguished Tacr1+ from Sst+ neurons with higher accuracy, indicating a distinct and relatively homogeneous ion channel identity in Tacr1+ neurons. Differential expression analyses identified coordinated upregulation of Trpc5, Kcnc2 and Cacna2d2 genes in Tacr1+ neurons. Tacr1+ neurons further exhibited elevated expression of the NALCN channelosome subunits and selective enrichment genes of Htr2c and Adra1a neuromodulatory receptor genes. Together, these findings define a molecularly distinct ion channel composition of Tacr1+ neurons and imply convergent substance P linked mechanisms: TRPC5-mediated ICAN and NALCN-mediated sodium leak conductance supporting rhythmic inspiratory activity, providing a molecular framework for targeted interrogation of respiratory circuit function.
Neuroticism is an established risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD), yet the molecular mechanisms linking this personality trait to neurodegeneration remain poorly understood.We leveraged single-nucleus RNA-sequencing data from longitudinal cohort studies of cognitive aging (n = 655) to investigate the mechanisms mediating the association between neuroticism and AD.We identified two genes associated with neuroticism, both of which are downregulated in excitatory neurons: ADRA1B and LY6E-DT. In addition, we found that neuroticism is associated with enrichment of a specific excitatory neuron subpopulation: Exc.12. Further analysis revealed that Exc.12 partially mediates the relationship between neuroticism and AD, accounting for 12.2% of the total effect.The dysregulation of excitatory neurons may represent a key cellular change that links neuroticism to AD.
The complex nonlinear dynamics of tumor-immune interactions drive tumor heterogeneity and complicate treatment strategies. While bifurcation and multistability analyses of mathematical models can uncover critical system dynamics, few studies have explored bifurcation-particularly cusp bifurcation-in high-dimensional tumor-immune systems, as most existing analyses are limited to simplified two-dimensional models. In this study, we extend the tumor-immune model proposed by Anderson et al. (2024a) to incorporate combination therapy with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) and C-C chemokine receptor type 2 (CCR2) antagonists. By combining linear algebra methods, Sotomayor's theorem, projection singularity analysis, numerical simulation, and continuation techniques, we explicitly identify transcritical and saddle-node bifurcations, conduct a systematic cusp bifurcation analysis as a classical two-parameter problem, and derive explicit quantitative conditions. Calibration against four independent murine datasets demonstrates the model's ability to reproduce tumor growth dynamics across multiple tumor datasets. Bifurcation analysis characterizes the multiplicity of tumorous equilibria, and reveals the emergence of monostable and bistable regimes. In particular, the saddle-node bifurcation curve partitions the two-parameter space under combination therapy into monostable and bistable regions. Notably, a dose-dependent inverse correlation between ICIs and CCR2 antagonists emerges along this bifurcation boundary. Our results demonstrate that effective tumor control depends not only on treatment intensity but also on the patient's initial tumor burden. The corresponding critical thresholds are determined by bifurcation structure and the stable manifold (or characteristic space) of the saddle point, respectively. These findings provide theoretical guidance for treatment design under different tumor states. Importantly, the identification of a stable low-tumor state-being clinically acceptable and controllable-highlights the potential for sustained tumor control as an alternative therapeutic objective to complete tumor eradication.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a potent chemotherapeutic agent whose antitumor benefits are limited by a well-recognized, dose-dependent cardiotoxicity. While previous studies have implicated inflammatory pathways in DOX-induced cardiomyopathy (DIC), the role of CCR2 in this process remains incompletely defined. This study aims to investigate whether CCR2 deficiency confers cardioprotection against DIC and to uncover the molecular mechanisms involved.CCR2 knockout (CCR2⁻/⁻ ) mouse was subjected to both acute and chronic DIC models. Bone marrow transplantation was used to establish the functional contribution of CCR2-deficient macrophages. Autophagic flux was evaluated using complementary approaches, including a tandem mRFP-GFP-LC3 reporter, western blotting, immunofluorescence, and transmission electron microscopy. The mediator linking CCR2-deficient macrophages to cardiomyocytes was identified by proteomics and validated using recombinant IL12B protein and a neutralizing antibody.CCR2 deficiency substantially improved cardiac function, as evidenced by preserved left ventricular ejection fraction, fractional shortening and reduced serum cardiac injury markers. Mechanistic studies revealed that CCR2⁻/⁻ hearts exhibited enhanced autophagic flux, with increased LC3B lipidation, autophagosome formation, and clearance of damaged cellular components. Proteomic profiling of cardiac macrophages identified interleukin-12B (IL12B) significantly upregulated in CCR2⁻/⁻ mouse. Recombinant IL12B protein administration activated cardiomyocyte autophagy through PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway inhibition and reproduced the cardioprotective effects in WT mouse. Conversely, IL12B neutralization completely abolished CCR2 deficiency-mediated protection.Our findings identify a novel CCR2-IL12B-autophagy axis that critically regulates DOX-induced cardiotoxicity. CCR2 deficiency promotes IL12B secretion from cardiac macrophages, which directly activates protective autophagy in cardiomyocytes. These results establish CCR2 inhibition and IL12B supplementation as two promising therapeutic strategies to prevent chemotherapy-induced cardiomyopathy, providing a transformative approach to cardio-oncology.© The author(s).
This study investigated influence of cysteine-cysteine chemokines (CCR5, CCR5-59029A/G, CCR2), and stoma cell derived factor 1 (SDF1); as AIDS restriction genes (ARGs), on treatment outcomes among people with HIV (PWH) on long term antiretroviral therapy (ART) in Ghana.This cross-sectional study was conducted among 167 PWH and receiving ART in Accra, Ghana. Genomic DNA from PBMCs was used to genotype CCR5-Δ32, CCR2-V64I, CCR5 A59029G, and SDF1-3'A variants using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism, CCR5 expression was estimated by RT-qPCR.All participants carried the wild-type CCR5 genotype. No AIDS Restriction Genes was associated with virologic or immunological outcomes (p>0.05). However, individuals with the CCR5 A59029G GG genotype exhibited significantly higher proviral DNA levels than those with the AA genotype (p < 0.05), and the GG genotype independently predicted higher proviral DNA burden in multivariable analysis (β = 0.840, p = 0.011).No ARG variant was significantly associated with virologic or immunological outcomes. However, CCR5 A59029G was associated with differences in proviral DNA burden and CCR5 mRNA expression, suggesting a potential role in HIV reservoir dynamics during suppressive ART.Copyright © 2026 Appiah, Bonney, Obirikorang, Aboagye, Hanson, Agomuo, Effah, Annani-Akollor and Kyei.
Brain metastases (BrM) are a frequent and life-threatening complication of solid tumours, with lung cancer representing their most common source. While cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are well-established contributors to tumour progression in many extracranial malignancies, their presence and function within the brain tumour microenvironment, where fibroblasts have long been considered scarce or absent, remain poorly understood. Here, we isolated and characterised fibroblast-like cells from 13 human BrMs of diverse origins. These BrM-associated CAFs (BrM-CAFs) expressed canonical CAF markers and showed reduced proliferation and increased senescence compared to normal fibroblasts. Their transcriptome was enriched for extracellular matrix (ECM)-related genes, including multiple collagens, fibronectin, and matrix-remodelling enzymes. In vitro, BrM-CAFs produced a fibrillar ECM, and in BrM tissues, their abundance was associated with collagen I and fibronectin deposition. Transcriptomic, proteomic, and secretome analyses further revealed that BrM-CAFs produce multiple cytokines, chemokines, and growth factors that promote cell motility. BrM-CAF conditioned medium promoted both monocyte migration and the migration of cancer cells, including established cell lines and patient-derived lung cancer BrM cells; monocyte migration was partially reduced by inhibition of CCL2/CCR2 signalling, whereas blocking CXCL12, CXCL16, or CX3CL1 attenuated BrM-CAF-induced cancer cell migration. Beyond these effects on migration, exposure to BrM-CAFs increased cancer cell invasion in transwell and heterotypic 3D spheroid assays. In contrast, their effects on cancer cell proliferation were limited and did not indicate a growth-promoting role. Exposure to BrM-CAFs was also associated with increased expression of interferon-stimulated genes in cancer cells. Together, our findings support a role for BrM-CAFs in shaping the brain metastatic microenvironment through ECM remodelling and the secretion of pro-migratory mediators, promoting monocyte and cancer cell migration and enhancing cancer cell invasion. These data identify BrM-CAFs as active stromal participants in BrM biology and support further investigation of their biological, diagnostic, and therapeutic relevance.© 2026 The Author(s). Brain Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of International Society of Neuropathology.
Targeted kinase inhibitors induce marked tumor regressions but are limited by the emergence of drug-tolerant residual disease and resistance. Although tumor-intrinsic and adaptive immune mechanisms have been extensively studied, a better understanding of the contribution of innate immunity to targeted therapy durability is needed to devise optimal treatment strategies. Here, we showed that natural killer (NK) cells constrain targeted therapy resistance and identified a regression-associated macrophage program that promotes NK cell recruitment. In immunocompetent melanoma models that recapitulate patient treatment trajectories, tumor regression was characterized by robust NK infiltration, which transitioned to an NK-excluded residual state preceding resistance. A regression-associated macrophage subset (F4/80hiCCL5⁺MHCII⁺CD63⁺) contributed to NK cell recruitment via CCR2/5 signaling. Genetic depletion of macrophages using LysM-cre;iDTR mice impaired NK cell infiltration. Pharmacologic inhibition of PTPN22, a negative regulator of immune activation, reprogrammed the residual tumor microenvironment, restored NK cell recruitment, and delayed resistance onset. Analysis of patient tumor datasets from melanoma and lung cancer revealed concordant NK dynamics during therapy, linking this innate immune program to clinical outcomes. These findings identify innate immune remodeling as a key contributor to targeted therapy durability and identify NK cell recruitment, promoted in part by regression-associated macrophages, as a therapeutically actionable node for extending durability of response across oncogene-driven cancers.
Allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) and atopic dermatitis (AD) are driven by distinct T cell programs, and safe long-term topical therapies remain limited. Dermal fibroblasts (dFBs) have emerged as active immunomodulators, but whether they can be therapeutically targeted remains unexplored.Here we developed MDI1228, a novel topical pan‑JAK inhibitor with nanomolar potency against JAK1/2/3/TYK2 (IC₅₀ 0.11-0.85 nM) and high selectivity. MDI1228 was evaluated in DNFB‑induced ACD and MC903‑induced AD mouse models, as well as in primary mouse and human cell‑based assays.Topical MDI1228 ameliorated both ACD and AD in mice, reducing T cell infiltration and cytokine production. Mechanistically, MDI1228 not only directly inhibited T cell activation and cytokine production but also disrupted fibroblast‑T cell crosstalk by reducing dFB‑derived chemokine expression. Single‑cell transcriptomics identified dFBs as the primary source of CXCL9/10 in ACD and CCL2 in AD. Conditioned medium and neutralization experiments demonstrated that CXCL9/10‑CXCR3 and CCL2‑CCR2 signaling axes contribute to T cell polarization in a context‑dependent manner. Compared with glucocorticoids, prolonged topical application of MDI1228 showed minimal systemic toxicity and preserved tissue homeostasis.These findings identify dFBs as a central therapeutic node and demonstrate that MDI1228, by directly targeting T cells and disrupting dFB‑derived chemokine axes via JAK inhibition, offers a potent and safe topical treatment for both ACD and AD.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Yin, Yang, Heng, Zhang, Song, Feng, Yang, Liu and Zhang.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42547913
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a chronic disease, causing irreversible lung scarring and respiratory failure. CD206+ M2 macrophages play a key role in its progression. In this study, we utilize the pro-inflammatory properties of plant viruses to develop a mannose-modified tobacco mosaic virus nanoparticle (TMV-OEG8-Man), which targets and reprograms profibrotic macrophages to inhibit IPF. TMV-OEG8-Man alters the CD206+ M2 macrophage phenotype in vitro, suppressing profibrotic genes (Mrc1, Spp1, Ccr2) and signaling pathways (MAPK, TGF-beta, PI3K-Akt, mTOR, Wnt), thereby reducing the transition of fibroblasts to myofibroblasts. When administered via aerosol, TMV-OEG8-Man achieves prolonged lung retention with minimal systemic exposure. In mice with bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis, a single dose during fibroproliferation attenuated fibrosis progression, increasing survival rate from 50% to 100%, and preserving lung architecture. This study establishes plant viral nanoparticles as a macrophage reprogramming strategy with therapeutic potential for organ fibrosis.
Hepatosteatosis is a common metabolic disorder. Bile acids influence hepatosteatosis, immune function, and incretin secretion. However, whether bile acids mediate hepatosteatosis through these immune or endocrine pathways remain unknown. Here, we identify supplementation with hyodeoxycholic acid (HDCA) in high-fat diet-fed mice increases hepatic iNKT cells and elevates circulating GLP-1, both upregulating fatty acid oxidation genes in a PPARα-dependent manner. Mechanistically, HDCA increases iNKT cells and IFN-γ production that promotes hepatic lipid catabolism, thereby attenuating triglyceride accumulation in wild-type (WT) mice, but not in iNKT cell-deficient (Ja18-/-) and PPARα knockout (Ppara-/-) mice. By contrast, the GLP-1 receptor agonist suppresses high-fat diet-induced steatosis in WT and Ja18-/- mice, but not in Ppara-/- and GLP-1 receptor knockout (Glp1r-/-) mice. Furthermore, anti-steatotic effect of HDCA is nullified in Glp1r-/- mice. Consequently, HDCA alleviates hepatosteatosis through dual mechanisms; an iNKT cell/IFN-γ immunometabolic- and GLP-1-dependent pathways. These findings highlight HDCA as a promising multi-target therapeutic strategy for hepatosteatosis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Impaired regulation of islet microvascular blood flow has been implicated in beta cell dysfunction in diabetes; this dysregulation is linked to endothelial dysfunction with reduced nitric oxide bioavailability. However, dynamic regulation of islet microvascular flow has not been directly examined in vivo. We hypothesised that acute pharmacological activation of the glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R) rapidly enhances islet microvascular flow through NO-dependent mechanisms under diabetic conditions.Islet microvascular dynamics were visualised in vivo using intravital two-photon microscopy in mice with hyperglycaemia induced by multiple low doses of streptozocin (STZ), which represents a model of beta cell dysfunction, and in normoglycaemic controls. Acute vascular responses to the GLP-1R agonist liraglutide were quantified by measuring peri-islet vascular volume fraction and erythrocyte velocity, with or without inhibition of nitric oxide synthase using Nω-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME). To assess the physiological relevance of the results, a subset of diabetic mice received chronic liraglutide treatment, followed by analyses of islet hypoxia and beta cell function.Acute liraglutide administration in the diabetic mice rapidly increased peri-islet vascular volume fraction (p=0.010) and erythrocyte velocity (p=0.003). These vascular responses were completely abolished by treatment with L-NAME, and were absent in normoglycaemic mice, indicating a diabetes-specific, NO-dependent microvascular response. Chronic liraglutide treatment was associated with reduced islet hypoxia and improved glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (p=0.042), supporting the physiological relevance of acute microvascular enhancement.Acute pharmacological activation of the GLP-1R rapidly enhances NO-dependent islet microvascular flow specifically under diabetic conditions. This previously unrecognised in vivo vascular response indicates dynamic regulation of the islet microenvironment by GLP-1R signalling, and suggests that rapid microvascular adaptation may contribute to preservation of beta cell function during metabolic stress.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Genetic variation in the glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor (GLP1R) has been implicated in type 2 diabetes (T2D) risk and treatment response. We investigated whether GLP1R R131Q, which was previously reported as a T2D-protective variant in genome-wide association studies, alters receptor signaling, β-cell function, and response to glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs).Trajectory of β-cell function was evaluated in a 20-year community-based prospective cohort in Korea (n = 6,373), where participants underwent biennial 2-h 75-g oral glucose tolerance tests, and disposition index was used as surrogate marker. Pharmacogenetic response to GLP-1RAs was assessed in a hospital-based T2D cohort in Korea (n = 177). Hyperglycemic clamp studies (n = 17), human islet experiments (n = 21), and in vitro assays were conducted to characterize GLP1R R131Q effects on receptor signaling and islet function.GLP1R R131Q was associated with slower decline in disposition index in individuals without T2D, with reductions from baseline of 30% in homozygous carriers, 35% in heterozygotes, and 37% in wild-type individuals. In people with T2D, each allele conferred an additional 0.53% or 5.8 mmol/mol reduction in HbA1c after 6 months of GLP-1RA treatment (P = 5.8 × 10-4). Hyperglycemic clamp and human islet experiments demonstrated allele-dependent enhancement of GLP-1RA-stimulated insulin secretion (P = 0.050 and P = 0.037, respectively). In vitro, GLP1R R131Q increased GLP-1RA-stimulated cAMP production with directional observations consistent with pathway bias.GLP1R R131Q is a gain-of-function variant associated with preservation of β-cell function and enhanced glycemic response to GLP-1RA treatment, supporting further investigation as a candidate pharmacogenetic marker for precision diabetes care.© 2026 by the American Diabetes Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556958 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556625 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42551415 is a review article
Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs) like semaglutide have transformed type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) management, yet emerging concerns highlight potential risks of accelerated sarcopenia and subsequent metabolic disruptions. This case-driven hypothesis explores a 53-year-old male with T2DM diagnosed in 2014, who experienced progressive glycemic failure despite standard therapies, including metformin, glipizide, sitagliptin, and empagliflozin. Transition to dulaglutide 1.5 mg for 1.5 years followed by semaglutide (titrated from 0.25 to 1 mg weekly starting September 2024) resulted in weight loss from 84 kg to 70 kg by September 2025, accompanied by sarcopenic symptoms (muscle weakness, reduced mobility) and refractory hyperglycemia (fasting glucose 300 mg/dL, HbA1c 9%), persisting post-discontinuation on September 1, 2025, despite metformin and empagliflozin. We posit that semaglutide may precipitate acute sarcopenia via unexpected GLP-1R-mTOR-satellite cells axis crosstalk, disrupting AMPK-mTOR balance to suppress anabolic mTORC1/IGF-1 signaling (potentially by 25-35%) while enhancing catabolic FOXO/ubiquitin-proteasome and excessive autophagy pathways. This could extend to myokine reprogramming (elevated myostatin/GDF15, reduced irisin/IL-15), glucagon/α-cell compensation inducing hyperglucagonemia (15-25% rise), microbiome-bile acid shifts fostering low-grade inflammation (IL-6/TNF-α upregulation by 10-15%), mitochondrial mass reduction (20-25% via AMPK), and NMJ disassembly, collectively impairing muscle as the primary glucose sink (reducing GLUT4-mediated uptake by 35-45%) and initiating a «muscle-glucose feedback loop» with hepatic gluconeogenesis amplification, yielding treatment-resistant hyperglycemia.Supporting evidence from cohorts (e.g., 24-month study showing ASMI/grip strength declines in 432 patients), longitudinal analyses (NMJ degradation with CAF22/NfL elevations in 141 men), secondary trials (9.3% psoas volume loss in 51 MASLD cases), and case reports (fatigue in a 74-year-old, rhabdomyolysis in a 47-year-old) aligns with this framework, as does in vitro data linking GLP-1 excess to kinesin-1/GLUT4 inhibition and ATP depletion (20-30%). This novel hypothesis underscores sarcopenia's role in GLP-1RA-induced metabolic paradoxes, urging prospective studies on muscle-preserving interventions like resistance training or GLP-1R modulators to refine T2DM paradigms and inspire multidisciplinary research into endocrine-muscle interactions.
This study aimed to investigate the anti-inflammatory effects of the aqueous extract of Pogostemon cablin and map the network of its main active ingredients, key targets, and signaling pathways. The chemical components of the extract were analyzed via ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled with quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UPLC-Q/TOF-MS), and its anti-inflammatory activity was verified using a zebrafish model. The target sites and signaling pathways of these chemical components were identified through bioinformatics analysis, while molecular interactions were simulated via molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. A total of 41 compounds were identified from the Pogostemon cablin aqueous extract, all of which exhibited significant anti-inflammatory effects in zebrafish. The key targets were confirmed as the ESR1, PTGER2, MMP3, MMP9, and PTGS2 proteins, which are involved in biological functions such as zinc ion binding, enzyme binding, and steroid binding. These key targets also regulate the lipid and atherosclerosis pathway and the estrogen signaling pathway, both of which are closely associated with the anti-inflammatory process. Network pharmacology effectively elucidated the potential molecular mechanism underlying the anti-inflammatory activity of the Pogostemon cablin aqueous extract, as well as the regulatory network between its key targets and active ingredients. These findings provide scientific evidence for the anti-inflammatory activity of Pogostemon cablin aqueous extract and support its potential application in anti-inflammatory and soothing cosmetics.© 2026 Wiley‐VHCA AG.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs) have been in use for twenty years. There have been concerns about their safety in patients with neuroendocrine neoplasms (NENs). The reports of GLP-1 receptor (GLP-1R)-driven proliferation of C-cell neoplasms in rodent studies had led to the black-box warning against their use in patients with medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) or multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 (MEN2). In this review, we have attempted to evaluate the physiological and pathological expression of GLP-1 receptors (GLP-1R) in various endocrine organs and summarise the preclinical and clinical evidence regarding the effect of GLP-1RA exposure and risk of NENs. GLP-1R expression has not only been found in nonneoplastic tissues such as neurohypophysis, duodenal glands and pancreatic islets but also in neuroendocrine tumours (NETs). Preclinical studies have demonstrated the proliferative effects of GLP-1RA in cell lines representing pancreatic NETs (panNETs) and small intestinal NETs. The available data from retrospective studies, randomized trials and cancer registries provide conflicting data and does not support a generalized increase in NENs with the use of GLP-1RA. Some epidemiological studies have even shown survival benefits associated with GLP-1RA use. In addition, significant gaps in evidence remain, such as lack of data regarding certain tumour subtypes, long-term prospective studies with NENs as the clinical endpoint and uncertainty regarding patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1). Hence, the initiation of GLP-1RA therapy in patient with predisposition to NEN where a contraindication does not exist, should be approached cautiously with careful monitoring for long-term adverse effects.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Endocrinology.
CYP4V2 is involved in lipid metabolism, but its contribution to asthma is poorly understood. This study aimed to investigate genetic polymorphisms and regulatory features of CYP4V2 in asthma development.We performed an integrative multi-omics analysis combining transcriptomic, genetic, and epigenetic data from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of individuals in the Singapore/Malaysia Cross-Sectional Genetics and Epidemiological Study (SMCSGES) cohort. The influence of CYP4V2 expression on asthma risk and expression of genes involved in arachidonic acid (AA) pathway were evaluated, followed by expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) analysis to identify regulatory variants. DNA methylation analyses were conducted to assess epigenetic regulation of CYP4V2, and promoter reporter assays were used to functionally validate candidate regulatory CpG sites.The upregulation of CYP4V2 in PBMCs was associated with an increased risk of asthma and inversely associated with PTGER2 and ALOX5AP in the AA pathway. The SNP rs2276921 was identified as the only expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) associated with both increased CYP4V2 expression and asthma risk (FDR-adjusted p < 0.05; OR = 1.24, 95% CI = 1.10-1.40). The minor allele G of rs2276921 was associated with low methylation at cg23232844 (p = 3.94 × 10-3) and cg11969330 (p = 4.25 × 10-2), located in the promoters of the protein-coding and non-coding CYP4V2 isoforms respectively. Promoter assays indicated that these two CpG sites inhibited CYP4V2 expression, supporting the regulatory effect of rs2276921 on CYP4V2 expression may be mediated through methylation.This study identified rs2276921 and CpG sites cg23232844 and cg11969330 that regulate CYP4V2 expression. CYP4V2 potentially modulates the AA metabolism and contributes to asthma susceptibility. These findings suggest CYP4V2 as a potential biomarker and therapeutic target in asthma.© 2026 Chen et al.
CCL28 functions as a key chemoattractant for IgA antibody-secreting cells (IgA+ ASCs) and is crucial for maintaining mucosal immune defense. Recent research has revealed IgA+ ASCs with immunosuppressive activity in non-mucosal tissues under inflammatory conditions. Here, we explored the contribution of CCL28 to chronic liver damage caused by carbon tetrachloride (CCl4).We administered CCl4 to wild-type and CCL28 knockout (CCL28 KO) mice to induce chronic liver damage. Liver damage, inflammation, fibrosis, and the expression of chemokines and immunosuppressive molecules were evaluated by histology, real-time PCR, ELISA, and flow cytometry.Chronic CCl4 treatment increased CCL28 expression in endothelial cells and macrophages of injured liver tissues. CCL28 KO mice exhibited higher serum ALT levels and more severe liver fibrosis than wild-type mice. They also showed diminished numbers of IgA+ ASCs in the livers. Liver-infiltrating IgA+ ASCs highly expressed the immunosuppressive molecules IL-10 and FasL, together with the CCL28 receptor CCR10. Furthermore, activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), which primarily produce extracellular matrix proteins, were increased in the livers of CCL28 KO mice, while apoptotic HSCs were decreased. In vitro, B220+ cells containing immunosuppressive IgA+ ASCs enhanced HSC cytotoxicity, and this effect was attenuated by anti-FasL antibody. Consistent with these findings, anti-IL-10 receptor and anti-FasL antibody treatment exacerbated chronic liver damage and fibrosis in vivo.These results demonstrate that CCL28 contributes to liver protection against chronic damage in association with the selective infiltration of immunosuppressive IgA+ ASCs.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Children with heart disease face competing risks of thrombosis and bleeding. Antiplatelet agents are widely used, but clinical effectiveness and safety may vary with pharmacogenomic variants. We evaluated bleeding and thromboembolic outcomes and explored pharmacogenomic associations in a pediatric cardiac cohort.Single-center, retrospective study of patients prescribed aspirin or clopidogrel during admissions (2011-2020). We abstracted clinical characteristics, pharmacodynamic testing, and adverse events while prescribed the antiplatelet agent through July 2021. Pharmacogenomic variants relevant to aspirin and clopidogrel metabolism/function (including CYP2C19 haplotypes and selected aspirin response loci) were called from existing genomic data. Outcomes included major bleeding and thromboembolism (TE) as well as pharmacodynamic aspirin "resistance." Analyses were exploratory.We included 105 patients treated with aspirin with VerifyNow pharmacodynamic and pharmacogenomic variant data and 49 clopidogrel-treated patients with genetic data. Major bleeding occurred in 5% (aspirin) and 16% (clopidogrel); TE occurred in 12% and 8% of patients, respectively. On aspirin, bleeding was more frequent with renal (40% vs. 2%, p = 0.011) or hepatic dysfunction (20% vs. 0%, p = 0.048); TE was associated with younger age, lower weight, and single-ventricle physiology. On clopidogrel, bleeding was associated with older age/greater weight and renal dysfunction. No association was observed across CYP2C19 phenotypes and clopidogrel outcomes. No poor metabolizers were identified in this small cohort. Pharmacodynamic aspirin "resistance" was seen in 23% and was more common in females, with no association identified with TE. A P2RY1 variant (rs1065776-CT) was associated with the composite aspirin outcome of pharmacodynamic resistance and/or TE.Clinically important bleeding and TE events were common in pediatric cardiac patients on antiplatelets, with organ dysfunction, age, and physiology emerging as key associations. Pharmacogenomic variants were frequent; a candidate P2RY1 signal warrants validation. Pediatric antiplatelet management and relationships with outcomes are complex, supporting the need for prospective studies integrating pharmacogenomic variant analyses with standardized pharmacodynamic testing.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Despite the incorporation of atezolizumab, an anti-programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) antibody, into first-line chemotherapy regimen, survival in patients with extensive-stage small cell lung cancer (ES-SCLC) remains poor. Given the role of dendritic cells (DCs) in modulating responses to anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) antibodies, a promising avenue is the development of vaccines based on DCs, together with the evaluation of how DC phenotypic modifications shape treatment efficacy.This is a single-arm, phase Ib/II, open-label clinical trial investigating the safety and activity of combining autologous tumor lysate pulsed DCs administered intradermally with intravenous atezolizumab as maintenance therapy for patients with ES-SCLC. Following leukapheresis, monocytes were differentiated ex vivo into mature DCs and loaded with irradiated autologous tumor lysate. After standard induction therapy (four cycles of carboplatin, etoposide, and atezolizumab), patients received up to six doses of mature DCs intradermally, along with intravenous atezolizumab 1,200 mg every 3 weeks, until disease progression.20 patients were enrolled, including six patients with brain metastases. 18 patients received DC vaccination, with a median of three doses (range 1-6). Most grade 3-4 treatment-related adverse events were hematological and related to chemotherapy. DC vaccination was well tolerated, with only grade 1-2 transient skin irritation at the injection site. Among 18 evaluable patients, 17 (94.4%) achieved an objective response. After a median follow-up of 31.4 months, progression-free survival at 2 years (PFS2y) was 20% (95% CI 6.4% to 39.1%), median overall survival (OS) 11.2 months (95% CI 6.3 to 26.0) and OS3y 22.5% (95% CI 6.8% to 43.6%). Six patients achieved long survival (median 30.5 months, range 23.4-36.2). Expansion of conventional type DC1 (cDC1s) XCR1+ and stem-like progenitor-exhausted (CXCR5+PD-1+) CD8+ T cells following chemotherapy plus atezolizumab was associated with improved PFS (HR 0.94, 95% CI 0.90 to 0.99 and HR 0.59, 95% CI 0.39 to 0.89).DC immunization combined with atezolizumab maintenance following standard chemotherapy plus atezolizumab treatment is well tolerated. Its clinical activity cannot be definitively determined in this study, as it was administered as maintenance therapy; however, the observed rate of long-term survivors suggests a potential benefit. Our findings suggest a pivotal role for cDC1s in mediating the antitumor activity in long-term survivors.NCT04487756.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
The current non-invasive screening methods for endometrial cancer (EC), such as transvaginal ultrasound (TVUS), lack sufficient specificity, leading to unnecessary invasive diagnostic procedures. The detection of cancer-specific deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation alterations in cervical cytology samples presents a promising, minimally invasive alternative. This study aimed to evaluate the diagnostic potential of novel DNA methylation biomarkers (CUGBP Elav-like family member 4 methylation [CELF4m ], Galanin receptor 1 methylation [GALR1m ], Zinc finger protein 486 methylation [ZNF486m ]) in cervical exfoliated cells for EC screening.This case-control study enrolled patients scheduled for diagnostic or surgical curettage at the hospital from September 2024 to June 2025. A total of 104 women underwent endometrial evaluation (32 type I EC, 3 type II EC, 61 benign lesions [BL], 8 atypical hyperplasia). Quantitative methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction assessed biomarker performance against histopathological diagnosis.All three markers (CELF4m, GALR1m, ZNF486m ) showed significant differential ΔCp values between BL and EC groups (all P < 0.01), with moderate diagnostic accuracy (area under the ROC curve [AUCs]: 0.654-0.704). The single-marker GALR1m outperformed endometrial thickness (ET) measured by TVUS in specificity (60.9% vs. 27.5%, P < 0.001) while maintaining comparable sensitivity (80.0% vs. 74.3%, P = 0.527). A two-marker panel (GALR1m /ZNF486m , Model 1) achieved sensitivity (97.1% [95% confidence interval [CI]: 91.6-100%]) with modest specificity (49.3% [95% CI: 37.5-61.1%]). Among three-gene models, Model 3 demonstrated the highest overall performance (AUC: 0.733 [95% CI: 0.657-0.808]; sensitivity: 91.4% [95% CI: 82.1-100%]), whereas Model 4 balanced sensitivity (80.0% [95% CI: 66.7-93.3%]) and improved specificity (63.8% [95% CI: 52.4-75.1%]).DNA methylation signatures in cervical cells show superior diagnostic accuracy to conventional ET measured by TVUS, particularly through multi-marker panels. This non-invasive approach represents a promising EC screening strategy.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Scientific Scholar.
The development of unconventional αβ T cells, including invariant natural killer T (iNKT) and mucosal-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells, in the thymus is distinct from conventional T cells. Unconventional αβ T cells adopt a memory phenotype, acquire effector functions, and can reside in the thymus long-term. It is well-established that positive selection of these unconventional T cells from CD4+CD8+ double-positive (DP) precursors depends on interaction with other DP cells. However, postselection, the regulation of their maturation and effector differentiation is less well understood. Professional antigen-presenting cells (APCs) are thought to have a role, but their roles have only been partially investigated previously. In this study, we investigate the impact of perturbing thymic dendritic cell (DC) and macrophage populations on intrathymic iNKT and MAIT effector subsets in C57BL/6 mice. We show that conventional type 1 DCs (cDC1s) support iNKT1 cells, while CX3CR1- and Mgl2-expressing cDC2s and macrophages support MAIT17 cells. Lastly, we show that disrupting the XCR1-XCL1 axis, which was previously shown to control cDC1 localization to the thymic cortex, alters the balance between iNKT and MAIT cells in the thymus, where there is augmentation of the iNKT cell compartment at the expense of MAIT cells. These findings further highlight the roles of hematopoietic APCs in supporting intrathymic unconventional αβ T cells.© 2026 The Author(s). European Journal of Immunology published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Stable angina pectoris (SAP) is a common risk factor for myocardial infarction and death. The genomic, transcriptomic, and phenomic heterogeneities of SAP require combination therapies. Multi-target drugs with fixed doses are emerging as scalable and promising prevention and therapeutic strategies for SAP. However, the identification of targets and underlying mechanisms of multi-target drugs for optimal clinical efficacy remains insurmountable. Here, we report a modular phenome-wide association study (MoPheWAS) of Danhong Injection (DHI), a clinically proven effective anti-SAP drug. The interrelated multitargets of DHI were divided into 32 On-modules. Eleven clinical SAP phenotypes defined by the Seattle Angina Questionnaire and serum lipids were interactively associated with 14 DHI efficacy-related Phe-modules. The intrinsic polymorphic associations between SAP phenotypes and Phe-modules manifested systematic positive/negative regulation of specific one-to-one as well as complex many-to-many relationships. These Phe-modules were conserved, transformed, or newly emerged modules involving G-protein-coupled receptor signaling and kinase binding. In vitro RNAi analysis confirmed the hub genes GALR1/BCMO1 in Mod-29 as multiple targets for the anti-ischemic effect of DHI. The landscape of modular regulators and polymorphic phenomic associations revealed the multi-target mechanisms underlying the therapeutic heterogeneity of SAP. Therefore, MoPheWAS may provides a novel systematic paradigm for identifying multiple phenomic targets of complex polygenic diseases.© 2026. The Author(s).
Detailed classification of equine dendritic cells (DC) is necessary to address various research questions, such as the role of DC subsets in immune-mediated diseases of horses.We applied single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) on DC enriched from the blood of two horses.All main DC subsets were detected by key gene expression, including conventional DC type 1 (cDC1; XCR1) and type 2 (cDC2; FCER1A, CD1E), as well as plasmacytoid DC (pDC; TCF4). In addition, we detected a small cluster of hematopoietic progenitors, as well as transitional DC (tDC; FCER1A, TCF4) and putative DC type 3 (DC3; FLT3, CD163). Our data confirms the previously reported phenotype of equine pDC (Flt3+MHC-IIlowCADM1lowCD172aint), cDC1 (Flt3+MHC-IIhighCADM1highCD172alow-int), and cDC2 (Flt3+MHC-IIhighCADM1intCD172ahigh), while also highlighting considerable CD14 expression for cDC2. Two subclusters of equine cDC2 were found to be enriched in FCER1A or CX3CR1 transcripts (cDC2.1 and cDC2.2, respectively), with suggested enhanced extravasation and T-cell stimulatory capacities of the latter. Conservation of DC subsets across species (horse, pig, human, mouse) was illustrated by enrichment analyses with subset-specific gene signatures and by cross-species data integration with publicly available scRNA-seq datasets.Our atlas of equine blood DC is a valuable resource for comparative analyses, and it forms the foundation for understanding the involvement of distinct DC subsets in infections and immune-mediated pathologies.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British Society of Immunology.
Cerebral malaria (CM) from Plasmodium falciparum is a major cause of death in African children. Since bradykinin (BK) is a mediator of vasogenic edema, we hypothesized that it contributes to the pathogenesis of CM in Kenyan children and Plasmodium berghei ANKA (PbA) infected C57BL/6J mice in experimental cerebral malaria (ECM). Cleaved plasma high molecular weight kininogen (cHK) is a marker for BK release. 40% of children with central nervous system malaria had plasma cHK versus 18% of children with uncomplicated malaria. Wild-type PbA-infected mice with ECM had circulating cHK, elevated BK levels, and reduced HK and prekallikrein activity/antigen levels. HK null (Kng1-/-), combined BK B1 and B2 receptor null (Bdkrb1-/-/Bdkrb2-/-), BK B2 (Bdkrb2-/-) or BK B1 (Bdkrb1-/-) receptor null mice were protected significantly from neurologic deterioration and brain edema compared to wild-type mice. F12-/- mice were not protected from neurological deterioration. Prekallikrein null (Klkb1-/-), prolylcarboxypeptidase hypomorphs (Prcpgt/gt), and brain endothelial cell conditional knockout of PRCP (Prcpfl/fl Cre) mice with ECM had reduced neurologic deterioration and brain edema. Adjuvant plasma kallikrein inhibition combined with artesunate treatment in PbA-infected mice reversed neurologic deterioration and brain edema and significantly prolonged survival over artesunate alone. BK-induced vasogenic edema contributes to human and murine CM.
Bulky tumors remain challenging to treat, and immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs), alone or combined with conventional radiotherapy (RT), yield limited efficacy. We present EclipseRT (ERT), an RT technique that delivers low-dose RT (LDRT) to the gross tumor volume (GTV) and stereotactic body RT (SBRT) to selected subvolume(s) within the GTV. Combined with ICIs (iERT), this approach achieves marked control of bulky tumors through the coordinated activity of NK and CD8⁺ T cells. Single-cell RNA sequencing and validation experiments show that the SBRT component robustly induces type I interferon (IFN-I), which activates NK cells to secrete XCL1, thereby recruiting cross-presenting XCR1⁺ dendritic cells (DCs). SBRT also promotes the release of extracellular vesicles carrying neoantigens, enhancing DC cross-presentation and CD8⁺ T-cell responses. The LDRT component further promotes NK and CD8⁺ T-cell recruitment. iERT also induces precursor exhausted CD8⁺ T cells in tumors and tumor-draining lymph nodes. Collectively, iERT activates the IFN-I/NK/DC/CD8⁺ T-cell axis, driving potent antitumor immunity against bulky tumors.© 2026. The Author(s).
The low response rate to immunotherapy in patients with lung adenocarcinoma is primarily due to tumor immune evasion. The tumor immunosuppressive microenvironment orchestrates this evasion, yet the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Here we identify non-specific cytotoxic cell receptor protein 1 (NCCRP1) as a critical and previously uncharacterized regulator of this process.We first analyzed publicly accessible patient-derived single-cell RNA sequencing and RNA sequencing data to investigate the expression of NCCRP1 in lung adenocarcinoma and its impact on the tumor immune microenvironment. Subsequently, the Nccrp1 gene was knocked out in mouse lung adenocarcinoma cells using CRISPR-Cas9. The effect of NCCRP1 deletion on tumor growth was then evaluated using subcutaneous transplantation models in both NSG and C57BL/6 mice. Single-cell RNA sequencing, flow cytometry and multiple targeted in vivo interventions were employed to assess the influence of NCCRP1 on the tumor immune microenvironment. To explore the underlying mechanisms by which NCCRP1 regulates the tumor immune microenvironment, we conducted co-immunoprecipitation, RNA pull-down, ubiquitination assay, mass spectrometry, isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation proteomics, dual-luciferase reporter gene assay, and ELISA.Loss of NCCRP1 inhibits lung tumor growth and prolongs survival in immunocompetent C57BL/6 mouse models. NCCRP1 deficiency upregulates CX3CL1 to recruit CX3CR1+ antitumoral macrophages. These macrophages subsequently secrete CXCL9 and CXCL10, enhancing the infiltration of CD8+ T cells and NK cells into the tumor microenvironment. Mechanistically, NCCRP1 and STAU1 competitively bind to NEDD4. NCCRP1 deficiency enhances the STAU1-NEDD4 interaction, promoting ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of STAU1, thereby increasing CX3CL1 messenger RNA stability. Remarkably, ablating NCCRP1 synergized with anti-programmed cell death protein 1 or interferon-γ therapy, leading to complete tumor eradication.Our findings highlight NCCRP1 targeting as a promising therapeutic strategy to reprogram the immunosuppressive microenvironment and overcome the "cold tumor" phenotype in lung adenocarcinoma.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Degenerative cervical myelopathy (DCM) encompasses several conditions that cause compression of the cervical spinal cord. While the pathobiology underlying compression-induced neural degeneration remains incompletely understood, microglial synaptic pruning, driven by CX3CR1, is thought to be a main contributor. The current study builds on previous work demonstrating that Cx3cr1-/- mice exhibit improved gait following DCM and seeks to determine if CX3CR1-mediated synaptic pruning underlies this improvement. We compared C57BL/6 (WT, wild-type) and Cx3cr1-/- mice across 12-weeks of DCM. Locomotor and pain function were assessed using CatWalk and Von Frey outcome measures, respectively. Synaptic and electrophysiological changes were characterized at baseline and after 4-weeks of DCM using pre- and post-synaptic markers, motor evoked potentials (MEPs), and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings. Cx3cr1-/- and WT mice showed differences in locomotion at baseline. Normalization of all groups revealed that Cx3cr1-/- mice exhibited improved locomotion across 12-weeks and greater mechanical sensitivity on Von Frey. 4-weeks post-DCM induction, the microglia of Cx3cr1-/- mice displayed reduced engulfment of excitatory and inhibitory synapses in the dorsal and ventral horns. This was accompanied by a disruption to the dorsal horn excitation-to-inhibition (E/I) balance, driven primarily by a loss of inhibitory transmission as confirmed by whole-cell patch clamp recording, and altered corticospinal-neuromuscular excitability, as confirmed by motor evoked potentials. Together, our findings reveal CX3CR1-mediated microglial synaptic pruning as a potential novel contributor to early DCM pathobiology. Specifically, our results suggest that an absence of pruning shifts the synaptic E/I balance in the dorsal horn, which may underlie the gait benefits observed in Cx3cr1-/- mice.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Vascular endothelial dysfunction drives major ischemic diseases, yet current nanovesicle therapies lack precise targeting and fail to counteract severe oxidative stress. Here, we engineer a universal, dual-targeting therapeutic platform by functionalizing nanovesicles from induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived endothelial cells with antioxidant ceria nanozymes (CeO2-NMUiECs). These nanovesicles home to ischemic tissues via the CXCR4/SDF-1 axis and preferentially enter local endothelial cells through homotypic affinity. At the target site, CeO2-NMUiECs act synergistically: the nanozymes catalytically neutralize reactive oxygen species, while the vesicles deliver endogenous pro-angiogenic proteins to rescue endothelial function. Systemic administration successfully promoted angiogenesis, mitigated tissue damage, and restored organ function across diverse rodent models of ischemia, including osteonecrosis, skin flap injury, myocardial infarction, and stroke. This nanozyme-arming strategy provides a broadly applicable platform, advancing cell-derived nanovesicles from passive carriers into active microenvironment-modulating therapeutics.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2026.1755657.].Copyright © 2026 Li, Tamai, Shinzawa, Fujisawa, Tanabe, Utsunomiya, Nakagawa, Kurachi, Koura, Mizukoshi and Kurachi.
Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) is rapidly induced after ischemic stroke, but its proposed cell-specific and sex-dependent functions during post-stroke inflammation remain insufficiently understood. Here, we investigated the role of microglia-derived TNF in the acute and subacute response to permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO). Tnf expression was transiently upregulated after stroke, becoming significant at 4 h, peaking at 12-24 h, and returning to baseline by 5 days. In situ hybridization confirmed strong Tnf expression in the infarct and peri-infarct regions. Whole-brain transcriptomic profiling showed that global TNF deficiency reshaped the early post-ischemic response, shifting it from microglia-associated phagocytic and wound-healing pathways toward an interferon-related inflammatory signature. To define the specific contribution of microglial TNF, we used inducible Cx3cr1CreER:Tnffl/fl mice. Microglial TNF deletion had no effect on infarct volume in males at 24 h or 5 days after pMCAO, but significantly increased infarct size in females at both time points. In both sexes, brain TNF levels peaked at 24 h and were significantly reduced in Cx3cr1CreER:Tnffl/fl mice, confirming microglia as a major source of early post-ischemic TNF. However, downstream consequences diverged by sex. At 5 days, male Cx3cr1CreER:Tnffl/fl mice showed reduced microglial reactivity and 18 kDa translocator protein (TSPO) signal, with no change in T-cell infiltration, and exhibited increased density of mature oligodendrocytes. In contrast, female Cx3cr1CreER:Tnffl/fl mice displayed enhanced microglial reactivity, increased TSPO binding, higher peri-infarct T-cell infiltration, and reduced oligodendrocyte density and myelin integrity. Together, these findings identify microglial TNF as a sex-dependent regulator of post-stroke inflammation and myelin injury.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Kidney transplantation remains the most effective treatment for end-stage renal disease. However, acute rejection after transplantation is a major contributor to mortality and morbidity. This study investigates the role of CXCL10 and its receptor CXCR3 as early, non-invasive predictors of rejection by quantifying their mRNA and protein levels in both blood and urine during the first week post-transplant, addressing the limitations of serum creatinine and biopsy.The study included 65 adult kidney transplant recipients, divided into a rejected group (n = 27) and a non-rejected group (n = 38). Blood and urine samples were collected during the first week after transplantation. mRNA and protein levels of CXCL10 and its receptor CXCR3 were quantified using SYBR Green real-time PCR and ELISA, respectively. Urinary CXCL10 transcript (AUC = 0.8, P = 0.0002), CXCL10 protein (AUC = 0.79, P = 0.007) and CXCR3 transcript (AUC = 0.83, P = 0.0001) showed relatively high accuracy for detecting inflammation in KTRs. When comparing rejected versus non-rejected groups, urinary CXCL10 transcript demonstrated reliable diagnostic accuracy (AUC = 0.74, P = 0.02). By contrast, urinary CXCL10 protein had lower diagnostic performance (AUC = 0.58, P = 0.53). CXCR3 transcript and protein levels were higher in rejected compared with non-rejected KTRs in both blood and urine, but these markers did not reliably distinguish between rejected and non-rejected recipients.Urinary CXCL10 and CXCR3 markers showed rising transcript and protein levels in kidney transplant recipients, correlating with inflammation and suggesting their potential as noninvasive, early biomarkers to predict rejection within the first week post-transplant. While findings support integrating these markers into graft monitoring, standard thresholds require validation before clinical adoption.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Pain is a common neurological manifestation of COVID-19, yet the mechanisms by which SARS-CoV-2 spike protein fragments contribute to nociceptive processing remain poorly understood. We investigated whether spike-derived peptides directly activate spinal neuroimmune pathways involved in pain signalling.Male C57BL/6 mice received intrathecal administration of three synthetic SARS-CoV-2 spike-derived peptides (PSPD2001, PSPD2002 or PSPD2003) or saline. Mechanical nociception was assessed using the von Frey test. The involvement of spinal Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), microglia and p38 MAPK/NF-κB signalling was investigated using pharmacological antagonists, TLR4 knockout mice, RT-qPCR, ELISA, immunofluorescence, CX3CR1GFP/+ mice, human C20 microglial cells and molecular dynamics simulations.All spike-derived peptides induced mechanical nociception, with PSPD2003 producing the most pronounced response. PSPD2003 increased spinal TLR4 expression, elevated TNF-α and IL-6 levels and promoted activation of dorsal horn microglia, demonstrated by increased TMEM119- and CX3CR1-positive cells. These nociceptive and neuroinflammatory effects were abolished by pharmacological inhibition of TLR4, microglia, p38 MAPK and NF-κB signalling, as well as in TLR4-/- mice, demonstrating that TLR4 signalling is essential for PSPD2003-induced pain. PSPD2003 also induced a hypertrophic phenotype in human microglial cells, while molecular dynamics simulations supported a stable interaction with the TLR4/MD-2 complex.These findings identify a previously unrecognized neuroimmune mechanism whereby a SARS-CoV-2 spike-derived peptide triggers spinal nociception through TLR4-dependent microglial activation and downstream p38 MAPK/NF-κB signalling, highlighting the spinal TLR4-microglia axis as a potential therapeutic target for COVID-19-associated and post-viral pain.This study provides the first evidence that SARS-CoV-2 spike-derived peptides directly activate a spinal TLR4-dependent neuroimmune pathway to induce nociception. By integrating behavioural, pharmacological, genetic, cellular and computational approaches, it identifies microglial activation and p38 MAPK/NF-κB signalling as key mechanisms linking viral peptides to pain, providing a mechanistic framework for COVID-19- and post-viral pain and supporting TLR4 as a potential therapeutic target.© 2026 The Author(s). European Journal of Pain published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of European Pain Federation ‐ EFIC ®.
Immune evasion remains a major barrier to effective immunotherapy in cancer. Coordinated activation of different immune cell types shapes immune responses within the tumor microenvironment (TME). In this study, we uncovered a spatiotemporal synergy between cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) and natural killer (NK) cells in tumors with low T-cell infiltration. An integrative multiomics approach combining spatial transcriptomics, single-cell RNA sequencing, and high-dimensional flow cytometry demonstrated that vaccination, capable of activating both innate and adaptive immunity, rapidly reshapes the TME. Early infiltration of IRF8+KLRG1+ NK cells established a chemokine-rich niche together with myeloid cells that promoted the recruitment of antigen-primed CXCR3+ CTLs. The accompanying inflammatory monocyte recruitment and dendritic cell activation led to the coordinated structural and chemotactic remodeling of the TME. Functionally, NK-CTL clustering at the tumor margin was associated with enhanced cytotoxic activity and sustained immune engagement. These spatially organized immune interactions involved CCR5-CCL5 and CXCR3-CXCL9 signaling pathways that coordinate communication between innate and adaptive immune compartments. Together, these findings reveal a previously unrecognized NK-CTL cooperative program that promotes the transition of poorly infiltrated tumors toward an inflamed, immune-responsive state. More broadly, this study illustrates how spatially resolved multiomics approaches can uncover immune interactions and provides a conceptual framework for designing next-generation immunotherapies that mobilize coordinated innate and adaptive immunity.Early infiltration of NK cells followed by T cell accumulation reshapes the tumor microenvironment to promote antitumor immunity following vaccination, providing a mechanistic rationale for the development of effective vaccine-based immunotherapy strategies.©2026 American Association for Cancer Research.
Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a chronic inflammatory bowel disorder with limited therapeutic options, particularly those capable of selectively reinforcing intestinal epithelial barrier integrity while preserving immune homeostasis. Here, Rhoifolin (3, 10 mg/kg) dose-dependently alleviates DSS and TNBS-induced colitis in mice. Mechanistically, Rhoifolin selectively potentiates ILC3s effector function without affecting their proliferation, apoptosis, intestinal homing, developmental differentiation, or the distribution of CCR6+, NKp46+, and double-negative ILC3s subsets. This functional enhancement promotes IL-22 production, thereby reinforcing epithelial barrier integrity in colonic epithelial cells and organoids. Integrated transcriptomics and untargeted metabolomics identified nicotinamide salvage as a central metabolic program driving ILC3s functional enhancement. NMNAT1 was identified as a direct molecular target of Rhoifolin. Molecular docking and dynamic simulations pinpointed Leu155 as a critical residue mediating Rhoifolin-NMNAT1 interaction, and mutation of Leu155 antagonized metabolic activation and IL-22 induction. Consistently, Rhoifolin-induced NAD+ elevation enhanced SIRT1 activity, leading to FOXO1 deacetylation and nuclear translocation. Further CUT&Tag-qPCR demonstrated FOXO1 enrichment at Il22 promoter, driving IL-22 transcription in ILC3s. Collectively, our findings identify Rhoifolin as a potent ILC3s effector function enhancer and uncover a previously unrecognized NMNAT1-NAD+-SIRT1-FOXO1 axis linking immunometabolic and epigenetic regulation to intestinal barrier protection, highlighting ILC3s empowerment as a promising therapeutic strategy for UC.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Programmable large-fragment genome integration using prime-editing-coupled serine integrases, such as PASTE and PASSIGE, remains constrained by the limited activity of wild-type Bxb1 (WT Bxb1) in mammalian cells. Recently, the AI-guided protein engineering framework EVOLVEpro enabled efficient identification of functional protein variants from limited experimental sampling and nominated epBxb1(T166R) as a highly active Bxb1 variant in episomal plasmid-to-plasmid recombination screens. Here, we systematically benchmarked epBxb1 (T166R) against WT Bxb1 and the previously validated high-activity eeBxb1 (V74A/E229K/V375I) variant in genome-integrated reporter and endogenous-locus PASSIGE assays at three well-characterized benchmarking loci (AAVS1, CCR5, and ACTB). epBxb1 showed reduced and variable transferability, with no detectable advantage over WT Bxb1 in the genome-integrated reporter system or at the AAVS1 safe-harbor locus, but produced modest, locus-dependent improvements at CCR5 and ACTB, with 1.89-fold and 1.58-fold increases, respectively. By contrast, eeBxb1 consistently showed superior activity, achieving up to ∼12-fold improvement over WT Bxb1. Four additional rounds of EVOLVEpro-guided optimization on the eeBxb1-BPNLS scaffold identified no reproducibly improved variant among 40 tested single-amino-acid substitutions. These results indicate reduced and genomic context-dependent transferability of EVOLVEpro-nominated Bxb1 variants and highlight the importance of application-matched genomic benchmarking when implementing AI-guided protein optimization for therapeutic genome writing.
Therapeutic protein overexpression can overwhelm endoplasmic reticulum (ER) folding capacity, trigger unfolded protein response (UPR) signaling, and compromise the safety of gene and mRNA therapies. Here, we engineer stress-responsive RNA rheostats that couple transgene expression to endogenous ER stress sensing. Short RNA elements derived from X-box-binding protein 1 (XBP1) mRNA undergo inositol-requiring enzyme 1α (IRE1α)-dependent splicing under ER stress, inducing a frameshift that attenuates downstream protein expression. XBP1 switches function across DNA and mRNA delivery platforms and regulate the expression of fluorescent reporters, coagulation factor VIII, and Leronlimab, a therapeutic anti-CCR5 monoclonal antibody. Switch activation reduces ER stress markers while preserving expression under homeostatic conditions. We further demonstrate the regulation of Leronlimab expression in vivo using recombinant adeno-associated virus vectors. Together, these findings establish programmable RNA feedback control as a strategy for linking cellular proteostasis to therapeutic protein expression and improving the safety of gene and mRNA therapies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
For most people living with Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), virus control and sufficient immune function can be achieved with polypharmacotherapy. A minority is intolerant to thereto, and drug-resistant mutants are emerging. Additionally, people living with HIV (PLWH) have significantly higher risk of cardiovascular morbidity and malignant diseases. HIV is in principle immunogenic. If T-cell depletion could be avoided immunological HIV eradication should be achievable. The "Berlin patient" in whom allogeneic stem cell transplantation from a CCR5Δ32/Δ32 donor induced long-term remission without antiviral therapy raised the hope that stem cell gene therapy with CCR5-deleted autologous stem cells could provide a cure, but the strategy did not live up to expectations. We propose to test an alternative strategy, namely expression of a designer recombinase which specifically excises HIV provirus from the genome under a Tat-inducible promoter so that expression is restricted to infected cells. A cGMP-compliant manufacturing protocol and quality control strategy for this investigational medicinal product was developed, validated, and a manufacturing authorization obtained. A First-in-Human-clinical trial, testing engraftment, repopulation of peripheral specific immunity, and ability to control HIV infection without antiviral medication is in preparation. Protocols can be adapted to other stem cell gene therapies by transferring alternative lentviral cargo.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cirrhosis is the end-stage of chronic liver disease characterized by progressive hepatic fibrosis and persistent immune dysregulation, yet the mechanisms by which immune cell crosstalk drives disease progression remain poorly understood.In the present study, we integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic analyses with immunofluorescence validation to investigate the role of the CCL20-CCR6 axis in MAIT cells-macrophages interactions during cirrhosis progression.We identified eight core cirrhosis-associated immune genes (OGN, IL32, CCL19, PDGFA, CCL20, NTS, SEMA3C, HSPA2), among which CCL20 was selectively enriched in mucosal-associated invariant T cells (MAIT) and closely associated with their activation- and exhaustion-related transcriptional profiles. Cell-cell communication analysis revealed that the CCL20-CCR6 axis may specifically mediate bidirectional interactions between MAIT cells and M2 macrophages, forming a disease-specific positive feedback loop within the cirrhotic microenvironment. Immunofluorescence staining further confirmed the enrichment and colocalization of CCL20, MAIT cells, and M2 macrophages in cirrhotic tissues.Collectively, these findings support the CCL20-CCR6 axis as a key regulator of hepatic immune dysregulation and fibrotic progression in liver cirrhosis, highlighting its potential as both a biomarker of disease activity and a therapeutic target for cirrhosis intervention.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Li, Zhang, Lou, Zhang, Lou, Zhang, Xu, Jiang and Lv.
Secondary brain injury (SBI) following spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a critical determinant of neurological outcome. It is closely associated with neuronal death, and inflammatory responses. However, current research on SBI after ICH remains limited, and effective therapeutic targets are still lacking.In this study, a collagenase-induced intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) model was employed, and experiments were conducted 24 h after hemorrhage induction. For in vitro experiments, differentiated PC12 cells were stimulated with hemin and the CKLF1 agonist peptide C27 to evaluate the potential of CKLF1 to induce neuronal ferroptosis. Mechanistically, the CKLF1 antagonist peptide C19, the CCR5 inhibitor Maraviroc (MVC), and a p38 MAPK inhibitor were applied, in combination with immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) assays and overexpression of p53 site mutation, to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying CKLF1-induced ferroptosis in PC12 cells. In vivo, the effects of CKLF1 knockdown on secondary brain injury after ICH were assessed using quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR), Western blotting (WB), immunohistochemistry (IHC), and immunofluorescence (IF) analyses.Mechanistic studies revealed that CKLF1 binds to its receptor CCR5 to activate p38 MAPK, which promotes ferroptosis by regulating p53 phosphorylation and nuclear translocation, while the mutation of p53 partially reversed the effect. This signaling cascade leads to the downregulation of ferroptosis-suppressing proteins (SLC7A11 and GPX4) and the upregulation of pro-ferroptotic proteins (COX2 and ACSL4), thereby exacerbating lipid peroxidation and oxidative stress. Conversely, AAV-mediated knockdown of CKLF1 significantly suppressed this ferroptotic signaling pathway in vivo/vitro, reduced iron deposition and neuronal ferroptosis in perihematomal tissue, improved blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity, inhibited microglial activation, and enhanced both neurological function scores and 7-day survival rates in ICH rats.The present study identifies CKLF1 as a previously unrecognized regulator of neuronal ferroptosis following ICH through the CCR5/p38/p53 signaling pathway. These findings provide new mechanistic insights into ICH pathogenesis and highlight CKLF1 as a promising therapeutic target for precision treatment of hemorrhagic stroke.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The Mizoram state of Northeast India has one of the highest HIV prevalence rates in Asia, yet the host genetic factors influencing HIV susceptibility in this Tibeto-Burman population remain uncharacterised.We performed whole-exome sequencing using Illumina NovaSeq 6000, mean coverage 100X on 76 HIV-negative Mizo individuals. Variants were called using GATK HaplotypeCaller v4.3 against GRCh38p14, annotated with ANNOVAR, and filtered using hard-quality thresholds (QD ≥ 2, SOR ≤ 3, MQ ≥ 40, DP ≥ 10, GQ ≥ 20). The allele frequencies were compared against gnomAD v2.1.1 population databases. Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium was assessed using the Wigginton exact test with Bonferroni correction.Post-quality filtering resulted in 12,011 sample-variants across 2,821 unique positions from 36 HIV-associated loci (33 protein-coding genes, 2 chemokine ligands, and 3 lncRNA targets). Of these, 784 observations (51 unique positions) were high-impact nonsynonymous or loss-of-function variants. ADAR rs2229857 (p.K384R, NM_015840) was the most frequently observed variant (Mizo carrier frequency = 0.895; 95% CI: 0.806-0.946). CXCR1 rs16858808 (p.R335C) showed the greatest population enrichment (Mizo carrier frequency = 0.197; 95% CI: 0.123-0.300; 7.65-fold carrier-frequency enrichment versus gnomAD South Asian; CADD = 15.60). Sixteen of 20 tested variants deviated from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium after Bonferroni correction (p < 0.0025), predominantly showing excess homozygosity consistent with the endogamous Mizo population. The protective variant CCR5-Δ32 was absent in all the 76 individuals tested.This first whole-exome characterization of HIV host genes in the Mizo population identifies CXCR1 rs16858808 as the most population-enriched functional variant and reveals a pervasive endogamy signature. These findings provide a population-specific genetic framework for future HIV susceptibility studies and ART pharmacogenomics research.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Human norovirus (HuNoV) is a major cause of acute viral gastroenteritis. Although it can be replicated in vitro using human intestinal enteroids (HIEs), generating high-titer viral laboratory stocks remains challenging due to low infection and passage efficiencies. Interferon response and chemokine signaling may be key host pathways that restrict efficient HuNoV replication. Here, we evaluated the effect of their inhibitors, ruxolitinib-a Janus kinase (JAK) 1/JAK2 inhibitor-and TAK-779-a C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 3 (CXCR3)/C-C motif chemokine receptor (CCR) 5/CCR2 antagonist-on HuNoV replication in wild-type jejunal HIEs. TAK-779 increased GII.17 HuNoV replication by 2.3- and 6.0-fold at 48 and 96 h postinfection (hpi), respectively, compared with the DMSO-treated control. In contrast, ruxolitinib alone did not affect viral replication. Notably, simultaneous treatment with these compounds further enhanced GII.17 replication by 6.0- and 10.7-fold at 48 and 96 hpi, respectively, which enabled serial passaging. These findings imply that the simultaneous suppression of these pathways potentially benefits GII.17 HuNoV replication.© 2026 The Author(s). Genes to Cells published by Molecular Biology Society of Japan and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
The utilization of plant protein in aquafeeds to reduce dependence on fishmeal has become an important strategy for improving the sustainability of marine aquaculture. This study investigated the effects of low-fishmeal plant protein diets on growth performance and gut-liver molecular responses in large yellow croaker. A total of 2,048 fish were fed two diets for 206 days: a commercial-like control diet containing 280 g/kg fishmeal (C group) and a low-fishmeal diet containing 100 g/kg fishmeal with increased inclusion of plant protein sources (P group). Growth trials indicated that fish in the C group had significantly higher weight gain rate and specific growth rate than those in the P group (p < 0.001). Transcriptomic analysis identified 546 and 724 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the hindgut and liver, respectively. Hindgut DEGs were mainly enriched in pathways associated with lipid metabolism, immune responses, and signal transduction, whereas liver DEGs were primarily involved in lipid metabolism, immune regulation, and apoptosis. Several pathways, including fat digestion and absorption, complement and coagulation cascades, taurine and hypotaurine metabolism, antigen processing and presentation, and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, were enriched in both tissues, suggesting coordinated gut-liver regulation. Representative genes involved in lipid metabolism and immune regulation, including apob, scarb1, c3, b2m, and ccr9, exhibited tissue-specific and coordinated expression changes. PPI network analysis further identified c3, scarb1, vwf, and apob as key regulatory nodes potentially involved in coordinated metabolic and immune adaptation. Collectively, these findings provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying gut-liver adaptation to plant-based diets in marine fish.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
CCL25, a mucosal chemokine mainly produced in the gut, is known for its role in intestinal immunity through CCR9. In this study, we tested whether CCL25 also contributes to ocular immunity within the gut-eye axis during herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) infection. Using CCL25-deficient (CCL25(-/-) deficient) mice and wild-type C57BL/6J controls, which were infected ocularly with HSV-1 (McKrae strain), we found that CCL25 deficiency led to more severe corneal disease, increased viral replication, and reduced survival. CCL25(-/-) deficient mice also had fewer antiviral effector memory CD44+CD4+ and CD44+CD8+ T cells in the cornea, gastrointestinal tract, and draining lymph nodes, as well as reduced numbers of activated tissue-resident CD69+CD103+CD4+ and CD69+CD103+CD8+ TRM cells that produced interferon-γ. Immunohistochemistry showed strong CCL25 expression in the gut of wild-type mice but not in the cornea or conjunctiva. In addition, the mucosal chemokines CXCL14, CXCL17, and CCL28 were upregulated in infected ocular tissues of wild-type mice but remained low in CCL25(-/-) deficient mice, suggesting that CCL25 influences the expression of major mucosal chemokines. Collectively, these findings indicate that CCL25 supports recruitment of antiviral corneal tissue-resident effector memory TRM cells during ocular HSV-1 infection and supports the concept of a gut-eye axis in herpes immunity. The CCL25/CCR9 pathway may represent a promising therapeutic target to protect from herpetic eye disease.Copyright © 2026 Rahman, Prakash, Karan, Ng, Park, Maurya, Garcia, Intharachalit, Hwang, Tang, Chow, Suoth, Liao and BenMohamed.
Thymic central tolerance is crucial for preventing autoimmunity, but its contribution to tumor immune evasion remains poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) in the thymus have two distinct subsets, accumulating in the thymus of tumor-bearing mice, contributing to immune tolerance through clonal deletion of tumor-specific T cells and reducing newly generated T cells. Mechanistically, common dendritic cell progenitor-derived pDCs (CDP-pDCs) capture tumor antigens and migrate to the thymus in a CCR9-dependent manner, where they present these antigens to induce clonal deletion of tumor-specific T cells. Concurrently, tumor progression inhibits T cell generation by promoting the accumulation of common lymphoid progenitor-derived pDCs (CLP-pDCs) within the thymus, which further produce type I interferon to alter thymic function. CCR9 deficiency prevents thymic accumulation of both pDCs, enhancing antitumor immunity and reducing tumor growth. Our findings reveal a previously unrecognized mechanism by which tumors hijack the physiological system to establish central tolerance against peripheral antigens, thereby promoting tolerance against themselves.
Pre-eclampsia is a significant obstetric complication. Immune cells within the maternal circulatory system hold substantial promises for the diagnosis and treatment of pre-eclampsia. However, research focusing on the maternal circulatory system remains inadequate.We conducted differential analysis and weighted correlation network analysis on a dataset to identify blood biomarkers for early-onset pre-eclampsia. These biomarkers were subsequently validated through ELISA. Multiple bioinformatic analyses were subsequently performed to predict the biological functions associated with the selected genes and potential protein‒miRNA regulatory relationships. Additionally, by analysing single-cell transcriptomic data from blood samples, we predicted the genetic profiles of the selected genes, investigated changes in the proportion of blood immune cells and abnormalities in intercellular communication in the pathogenesis of pre-eclampsia, and predicted potential protein-compound interactions.We identified and validated the expression levels of F2R-like trypsin receptor 1 (F2RL1) and granzyme H (GZMH) in maternal blood samples obtained from women with and without pre-eclampsia. Gene set enrichment analysis revealed that F2RL1 participates in the regulation of classic signaling pathways, including the Toll-like receptor signaling pathway, pattern recognition receptor signaling pathway, oxidative stress-induced endogenous apoptosis signaling pathway, and vesicle targeting process. GZMH primarily contributes to immune processes associated with natural killer cells. Analysis of single-cell sequencing datasets revealed significant alterations in T cells and haematopoietic stem cell growth factor (HSC-G-CSF) within the maternal blood system during the onset of pre-eclampsia. Furthermore, receptor-ligand interaction analysis and protein-compound interaction analysis highlighted the critical role of aspirin in alleviating pre-eclampsia pathology, while also revealing the potential therapeutic value of tyrosine kinase inhibitors.This study identified the pre-eclampsia biomarkers F2RL1 and GZMH, which showed good diagnostic value. This research provides new insights for the prediction of pre-eclampsia and deepens our understanding of changes in the maternal blood immune system during pre-eclampsia.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42462280 is a review article
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is imperceptible and with a complex pathogenesis involving oxidative stress and inflammatory responses. The phosphatidylinositol 3 kinases/protein kinase B (PI3K/AKT) signaling pathway plays a crucial role in this process. Previous studies indicated that chemokine ligand 25 (CCL25) and its receptor CCR9 participate in regulating the PI3K/AKT pathway. However, it remains unclear whether CCL25/CCR9 influences CKD by modulating oxidative stress and inflammation via the PI3K/AKT pathway. We aimed to clarify the roles of CCL25/CCR9 in CKD progression through PI3K/AKT activation and its upstream regulatory factors. In this study, an adenine-induced CKD rat model and an indoxyl sulfate-induced CKD cell model were constructed. Bioinformatics method based on two online websites (JASPAR and Cistrome DB) was conducted to predict the upstream of CCL25/CCR9. Anti-CCL25 and PI3K/AKT activator 740Y-P were added, and sh-IRF1 was transfected into the HK-2 cells for the mechanism exploration. Renal function markers (blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, urine protein/creatinine ratio), renal pathology, oxidative stress markers (reactive oxygen species, malondialdehyde, superoxide dismutase), inflammatory cytokines (Interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF)-α), and the expression of CCL25, CCR9, PI3K/AKT pathway-related proteins, and the transcription factor interferon regulatory factor 1 (IRF1) were measured. Chromatin immunoprecipitation PCR (ChIP-PCR) was used to confirm IRF1 binding to the CCL25 promoter. The results indicated that CCL25 and CCR9 were upregulated in CKD rat and in vitro cell model. Enhanced oxidative stress and inflammatory response, followed by renal fibrosis and renal dysfunction, were observed in CKD rats. Anti-CCL25 addition decreased the PI3K/AKT markers, oxidative stress markers, and inflammatory responses, whereas 740Y-P addition reversed the above alteration. IRF1 was confirmed to be an important transcription factor for CCL25 in bioinformatics analysis. IRF1 was increased in CKD models and binding with CCL25 in ChIP-PCR detection. sh-IRF1 transfection decreased the CCL25 and CCR9 expression. In conclusion, IRF1-regulated CCL25/CCR9 was demonstrated to promote CKD progression through PI3K/AKT-mediated oxidative stress and inflammatory response.
The gut microbiome is increasingly recognized as a key modulator of cancer immunotherapy efficacy. Given that diet is one of the most important determinants of the gut microbiome composition and function, nutritional strategies have emerged as promising tools to modulate anti-tumor immune responses. Here, we demonstrate that dietary supplementation with inulin reduces tumor growth and enhances αPD-1 efficacy in mice. These effects were associated with increased frequencies of intra-tumoral CD8⁺ and CD4⁺ T cells, particularly CCR9⁺CXCR3⁺ subsets, and enrichment of beneficial taxa such as Akkermansia and Lachnospiraceae, alongside elevated short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) levels. Among the SCFA, butyrate alone recapitulated the anti-tumor effect of inulin and had an additive effect when combined with αPD-1 therapy in a CD8⁺ T cell-dependent manner. Butyrate exerted its anti-tumor effects by transcriptional changes in CD8⁺ T cells involving activation of proliferation, trafficking, and metabolic pathways. In a cohort of 117 non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients amenable to immunotherapy, the median dietary fiber intake was lower than previously published studies but correlated with enrichment of Faecalibacterium praunitzii and metabolic pathways related to sucrose degradation and tryptophan biosynthesis. Collectively, our findings highlight the therapeutic potential of targeting diet-microbiome-immune system interactions to improve cancer immunotherapy outcomes.
Biaoxu Ganmao Granules (BXGG) is used clinically for wind-cold syndrome; however, its effects on cyclophosphamide (CTX)-induced immunosuppression and the associated pharmacological basis remain incompletely characterized.Two mouse cohorts were used to evaluate BXGG and paeoniflorin in a CTX-induced immunosuppression model. Body weight, thymus and spleen indices, splenic histopathology, serum cytokines, and peripheral blood cell counts were assessed. Ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole time-of-flight tandem mass spectrometry (UHPLC-QTOF-MS/MS), network pharmacology, and molecular docking were used to characterize BXGG constituents, blood-absorbed constituents, and putative targets. Paeoniflorin was selected as a representative blood-absorbed constituent for preliminary in vivo validation, and proteins related to the toll-like receptor 4/nuclear factor kappa B (TLR4/NF-κB) pathway were examined by Western blotting.BXGG partially reversed CTX-associated reductions in body weight, thymus and spleen indices. It also partially restored serum interleukin-2 (IL-2), interleukin-4 (IL-4), and interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) levels, and white blood cell (WBC), lymphocyte (LYMPH), platelet (PLT), and reticulocyte (RET) counts. Network analysis and docking prioritized paeoniflorin as a candidate immune-regulatory constituent. Paeoniflorin improved several CTX-impaired immune-related outcomes and decreased TLR4 expression and the phosphorylated inhibitor of κB alpha/inhibitor of κB alpha (p-IκBα/IκBα) and phosphorylated NF-κB p65/NF-κB p65 (p-p65/p65) ratios in spleen tissue.BXGG ameliorated several CTX-induced immunosuppressive changes in mice. Paeoniflorin, selected as a representative absorbed constituent, partially reproduced the immunoprotective phenotype and was associated with attenuation of TLR4/NF-κB activation. The contributions and potential synergy of other absorbed compounds require further investigation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Lymph node tuberculosis (LNTB) is the most common form of extrapulmonary tuberculosis (TB). The symptoms of LNTB lack specificity, making diagnosis difficult and increasing the likelihood of missed or incorrect diagnoses. Along with IFN-γ Release Assay (IGRA), the detection method using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) can simultaneously detect IFN-γ and interleukin-2 (IL-2). However, the diagnostic value and expression levels of IFN-γ and IL-2 in patients with LNTB remain unclear.A total of 95 patients with enlarged lymph nodes were enrolled. Baseline data were collected, including age, gender, history of TB, histopathology, microbiology test results, and blood levels of IFN-γ and IL-2. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was used to investigate the diagnostic effect of the IFN-γ and IL-2. A double antibody sandwich ELISA was used to detect the concentrations of IFN-γ and IL-2 in culture supernatants.Based on ROC curves, the cut-off values for IFN-γ/IL-2 for differentiating LNTB from non-TB-lymphadenopathy (LAP) were determined to be 58.267 and 12.207 pg/mL, respectively. In patients with LNTB and non-TB-LAP, the sensitivity of IFN-γ/IL-2 in parallel was 83.33% (95% CI: 71.71-90.99), significantly higher (p < 0.05) than that for IFN-γ alone. The highest specificity (93.10%) (95% CI: 75.78-98.8) was observed when IFN-γ and IL-2 were applied in tandem.The combined detection of IFN-γ and IL-2 showed good diagnostic efficacy in LNTB. In addition, in patients diagnosed with LNTB, the expression level of IL-2 may be related to the burden of MTB and the severity of TB infection.Copyright (c) 2026 Chun Zhang, Yu Chen, Jun Huang, Ying Liu, Hao Zhang, Tianxing Hang, Lili Huang, Jianqi Gao, Chunmei Hu.
CXCL12 is a critical chemokine involved in immune cell trafficking and tumor metastasis through its interaction with CXCR4 and CXCR7. The C55Y mutation in CXCL12 is hypothesized to disrupt its structure and function. Unlike previously reported CXCL12 mutations that affect transcriptional regulation or single-receptor binding, C55Y targets a conserved cysteine residue essential for a structural disulfide bridge, potentially inducing unique global destabilization. This study investigates the molecular consequences of the C55Y mutation using computational tools.This study aimed to evaluate the structural and functional impact of the C55Y mutation in CXCL12, particularly its interactions with CXCR4 and CXCR7, and its relevance to prostate cancer pathogenesis.Molecular dynamics simulations (MDS), evolutionary conservation analysis, and molecular docking with CXCR4 and CXCR7 receptors were performed to assess the impact of the C55Y mutation. Tools such as I-TASSER, Meta-SNP, and PolyPhen-2 were used to analyze structural stability, while HDOCK and Schrödinger simulations assessed receptor binding. RMSD and RMSF calculations were used to evaluate protein dynamics.The C55Y mutation induces significant structural instability in CXCL12, with increased RMSD and altered secondary structure. Molecular dynamics simulation further demonstrated the stability of the complexes through RMSD, RMSF, hydrogen bond, and Radius of Gyration (RoG) analyses, where the normal complexes exhibited comparatively stable structural compactness during the simulation period. Docking studies showed reduced binding affinity to CXCR4 and CXCR7, indicating disrupted receptor interactions. Notably, this dual-receptor binding loss distinguishes C55Y from other mutations that typically impair only CXCR4 signaling. These findings suggest that the mutation impairs CXCL12's function in prostate cancer, metastasis of prostate cancer, and immune response.The C55Y mutation in CXCL12 disrupts its structural integrity and receptor binding, uniquely compromising both the CXCR4 and CXCR7 pathways. This highlights its potential role in prostate cancer progression through mechanisms distinct from previously characterized CXCL12 variants. This study provides insights into the molecular mechanisms of CXCL12-mediated signaling and its implications for future therapeutic strategies targeting chemokine signaling to inhibit prostate cancer.© The Author(s) 2026.
The tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and TNF receptor (TNFR) superfamilies comprise 47 proteins that regulate immune signaling and T cell costimulation. While TNF inhibitors are established therapies for immune-mediated inflammatory diseases (IMIDs), their efficacy is limited by primary non-response and secondary loss of efficacy. Preclinical data suggest that the TNF/TNFR members exhibit redundant and synergistic signaling, motivating combination targeting strategies.We have systematically evaluated TNF/TNFR combinations as potential immunotolerance targets using integrated computational and experimental approaches. We applied a gene prioritization framework incorporating transcriptomics, genetics, druggability, and pathway regulation data to derive disease association scores for the TNF/TNFR genes in rheumatoid arthritis and inflammatory bowel disease. Based on these scores and T cell expression profiling, ten targets were prioritized for a combinatorial screen using clinical-stage and preclinical pharmacological inhibitors in a mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR) assay. The effects of the most promising combinations were further characterized by RNA sequencing.The combinatorial screen identified four drug combinations that significantly suppressed T cell production of IL-2 and IFN-γ: TNF+CD40L, TNF+OX40L, CD40L+OX40L, and CD40L+LTβ/LIGHT. Transcriptional profiling revealed that these combinations broadly downregulated genes associated with T cell activation, proliferation, differentiation, and cytokine production that were induced during the allogeneic response. Notably, the co-inhibition of TNF and CD40L (Adalimumab+Dapirolizumab) produced the most robust suppression, uniquely downregulating 337 genes enriched for key T cell activation pathways, including NF-κB and ERK1/2.These findings demonstrate that the combinatorial antagonism of TNF/TNFR superfamily members can potently suppress allogeneic T cell responses, with the TNF+CD40L combination showing particularly strong and broad effects. The results support the continued preclinical evaluation of combinatorial TNF/TNFR inhibition as a potential tolerance-inducing therapeutic strategy for patients with refractory IMIDs.Copyright © 2026 Veerasubramanian, Zang, Amancha, Wynn, Quan and Karlsson.
To establish a plaque immune microenvironment classification system and explore whether multimodal ultrasound may aid in the non-invasive identification of high-risk subtypes.This exploratory study investigated the association between PCA-derived immune subtypes and multimodal ultrasound features.This prospective study included 50 patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy (CEA). Seven immunohistochemistry (IHC) markers: interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interferon-γ (IFN-γ), IL-2, cluster of differentiation 11b (CD11b), myeloperoxidase (MPO), and microvessel density (MVD) were assessed. Principal component analysis (PCA) and hierarchical clustering defined immune subtypes. Preoperative conventional ultrasound and contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) evaluated vulnerability score, plaque thickness, and intraplaque neovascularization (IPN) grade.Hierarchical clustering revealed three functional modules: core pro-inflammatory (TNF-α, IL-6, IL-2, IFN-γ), angiogenesis-macrophage (CD11b, MVD), and MPO-alone. PCA classified 50 plaques into four subtypes: Type I (inflammation-dominated, n=8), Type II (angiogenesis-dominated, n=14), Type III (high inflammation and high angiogenesis, n=11), and Type IV (stable, n=17). Type III plaques had highest inflammatory factors and MVD, with 45.5% experiencing recent ischemic events. Ultrasound vulnerability score correlated with IL-6 (r=0.54) and MVD (r=0.52); IPN grade correlated strongly with MVD (r=0.69). Type III showed a "high-risk triad": high vulnerability score (median 5.0), increased thickness (0.45 cm), and high IPN grade (45.5% grade 3). Type II had isolated high IPN grade (71.4% ≥ grade 2).PCA-based immune subtyping of carotid plaques appears feasible. Multimodal ultrasound, particularly vulnerability score and IPN grade, may aid in the non-invasive identification of high-risk subtypes, suggesting a potential imaging strategy for plaque risk stratification.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Restoring durable allergen tolerance remains a challenge in the treatment of allergic asthma. Regulatory T cells (Tregs) represent attractive therapeutic targets since they can potently restrain allergen-specific type 2 effector T cell (Th2) responses. Agents that expand Tregs and enhance their function, such as interleukin-2 (IL-2)-based therapies, have been explored, but limited specificity has constrained their efficacy. IL-2 muteins have been engineered to preferentially target Tregs but have not been studied in the context of allergic inflammation.We explored the effects of the IL-2 mutein Fc.mut24 on allergen-induced type 2 airway inflammation.C57BL/6 mice were injected subcutaneously with Fc.mut24 in a house dust mite model of allergic airway inflammation, and clinical, cellular, and molecular biomarkers of the disease were assessed.In naïve mice, Fc.mut24 induced a rapid and transient expansion of activated Tregs in the lung. Fc.mut24 treatment prior to allergen sensitization abrogated the emergence of allergen-specific Th2 cells in the lung and prevented allergic airway inflammation and airway hyperreactivity. Further, Fc.mut24-pretreated mice failed to mount a Th2 recall response and did not develop lung inflammation upon allergen rechallenge during the memory phase, suggesting long-term protection. Maintenance of this protection required Tregs, as deletion of Tregs abolished the protective effect of Fc.mut24. In contrast, Fc.mut24 administered during the memory phase did not suppress the Th2 recall response and did not prevent allergic airway inflammation following rechallenge.Fc.mut24 therapy prevented allergic airway inflammation when delivered before Th2 cell priming but was insufficient to overcome established allergen-specific type 2 responses, defining a time-dependent window for effective Treg-directed intervention.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Hepatitis-hydropericardium syndrome (HHS) caused by fowl adenovirus serotype 4 (FAdV-4) has led to substantial economic losses in the poultry industry. Subunit vaccines based on the knob domains of Fiber1 and Fiber2 (F1F2K) are safe but exhibit limited immunogenicity. To address this, we sought to enhance the immune response by presenting F1F2K on self-assembling Mi3 nanoparticles (F1F2K:Mi3) and to compare its efficacy with the F1F2K monomer. F1F2K was conjugated to Mi3 via the SpyTag/SpyCatcher system. Chickens were immunized twice with F1F2K:Mi3 nanoparticles, F1F2K monomer, Mi3, or PBS, and then challenged with a lethal dose of FAdV-4. Humoral and cellular immune responses were evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), virus neutralization tests, and cytokine assays. Compared with the F1F2K monomer, F1F2K:Mi3 nanoparticles induced significantly higher antigen-specific IgG titers at 28 days post-vaccination (dpv) and a 2.5-log₂ increase in neutralizing antibody titers. Nanoparticle immunization also elicited stronger T helper 1/T helper 2 (Th1/Th2) cytokine responses (IFN-γ, IL-4, and IL-2). Following challenge, all chickens in both the nanoparticle and monomer groups survived. However, compared with the F1F2K monomer group, the F1F2K:Mi3 group exhibited less weight loss, lower tissue viral loads, reduced viral shedding, and markedly less liver damage, thereby more effectively blocking FAdV-4 pathogenicity in target organs. Our study demonstrates that displaying the F1F2K antigen on Mi3 nanoparticles synergistically enhances both humoral and cellular immune responses against FAdV-4, providing a promising next-generation nanoparticle vaccine strategy for HHS control.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
SHINE syndrome is a rare neurodevelopmental disorder caused by mutations in DLG4, which encodes the postsynaptic scaffolding protein PSD-95. Key symptoms include sleep problems, hypotonia, intellectual disability, neurological disorders, and epilepsy, hence the name 'SHINE.' Here, we developed and characterized a mouse model of SHINE syndrome carrying the patient-derived DLG4V692Wfs*12/+ variant associated with a severe form of the disorder. The mutant transcript escapes nonsense-mediated decay but results in reduced PSD-95 protein expression, faithfully reproducing the molecular phenotype observed in the patient. Behavioral analyses revealed that Dlg4V692Wfs*12/+ mice recapitulate several hallmark features of SHINE syndrome, often in a sex-specific manner. Male mutants showed deficits in learning and cognitive flexibility. Dlg4V692Wfs*12/+ mice also demonstrate trends toward altered sensory processing and socialization. Male mutants exhibited an increased proportion of short sleep bouts and compensatory longer average sleep bout length, suggesting sporadic sleep reminiscent of the patient. While spontaneous seizures were not observed, future studies will test susceptibility to provoked seizures. Together, these findings establish Dlg4V692Wfs*12/+ mice as a robust and translationally relevant model that reproduces key molecular and behavioral features of SHINE syndrome. This model provides a valuable resource for elucidating the mechanisms underlying synaptic neurodevelopmental disorders and for identifying potential therapeutic strategies.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Recent studies have revealed heterogeneity among ribosomes. Pathological cardiac hypertrophy is characterized by profound alterations in translation. However, how ribosome heterogeneity contributes to this process remains largely unclear.We used translating ribosome affinity purification coupled with mass spectrometry to profile ribosome-interacting proteins. Cardiomyocyte-specific gene manipulation was achieved through either genetic knockout or adeno-associated virus-mediated overexpression. Pathological cardiac hypertrophy was induced by transverse aortic constriction surgery in vivo and by phenylephrine stimulation in vitro.The cardiomyocyte-specific ribosome proteomics indicated dynamic alterations in ribosome-interacting proteins during pathological hypertrophy. Notably, multiple proteins associated with ribosome stalling were detected in the ribosome-interactome of hypertrophic hearts. Among these, we verified that CDK5RAP3 (CDK5 regulatory subunit-associated protein 3) exhibited the most specific ribosome binding in hypertrophic hearts. CDK5RAP3 was upregulated and recruited to ribosomes during pathological hypertrophy. It promoted RPL26 (ribosomal protein L26) UFMylation and ribosome-associated quality control on the mitochondrial surface. In vitro, CDK5RAP3 knockdown exacerbated cardiomyocyte hypertrophy induced by phenylephrine, whereas its overexpression attenuated it. In vivo, cardiomyocyte-specific CDK5RAP3 knockout promoted, while adeno-associated virus-mediated overexpression suppressed pathological cardiac hypertrophy induced by transverse aortic constriction. Mechanistically, ribosome stalling on the mitochondrial surface was exacerbated in hypertrophic hearts of both humans and mice, which was associated with impaired mitochondrial protein import. CDK5RAP3 enhanced ribosome-associated quality control, alleviated ribosome stalling, and restored mitochondrial protein import, thereby improving mitochondrial function. Notably, mitochondrial import of PDP1 was maintained by CDK5RAP3-mediated ribosome-associated quality control. Knockdown of PDK (pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase) 1/2, functional antagonists of PDP1, reversed cardiomyocyte hypertrophy caused by CDK5RAP3 deficiency.This study identifies CDK5RAP3-mediated ribosome-associated quality control on the mitochondrial surface as a critical protective mechanism that preserves protein import and mitochondrial function during pathological cardiac hypertrophy.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563243 is a review article
This study aimed to investigate the involvement of the Wnt signalling pathway in the pathogenesis of non-obstructive azoospermia (NOA) and to identify potential diagnostic and therapeutic targets. We obtained the gene expression profiles of NOA patients from the GEO database, screened for differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and NOA-associated co-expressing gene modules, then intersected the DEGs with related genes in the Wnt signalling pathway and identified key genes. LASSO regression analysis was used to find hub genes, and qRT-PCR and WB methods were used to verify the expression of key genes in NOA patients. The immune infiltration and GSEA were conducted in order to investigate the relationship between hub genes and immune cells infiltration and NOA-associated pathways; furthermore, we built the miRNA-mRNA-TF regulatory network and predicted possible small molecules drug targets of the hub gene. Four candidate genes were related to NOA: CSNK1G2, GNG3, H2AFB1 and PARD6A. The key hub gene was CSNK1G2 based on the results of the LASSO regression analysis, and its expression level was significantly down-regulated in NOA patients. The immune infiltration analysis and GSEA results showed that the expression level of CSNK1G2 had a close relationship with immune cells infiltration and NOA-related pathways. Furthermore, we built a miRNA-mRNA-TF regulatory network and predicted the possible small molecule drugs of CSNK1G2. Our findings suggest that the Wnt signalling pathway, particularly CSNK1G2, plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of NOA. CSNK1G2 may be a novel target for the diagnosis and treatment of NOA.
We report a 34-year-old male with childhood developmental delay, severe intellectual disability in adulthood, episodes of agitation with a previous diagnosis of schizoaffective disorder and adult-onset cognitive regression who developed progressive generalised dystonia due to a de novo DLG4 pathogenic loss-of-function variant. This case expands the phenotypic spectrum of recognised movement disorder manifestations associated with DLG4-related synaptopathy.Crown Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
It is well established that the early stage of mechanical unloading in both humans and animals is characterized by a decline in the activity of the key cellular energy sensor, AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). This decline triggers signaling pathways that drive myosin phenotype remodeling and muscle atrophy. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the reduction in AMPK activity under these conditions remain poorly understood. We hypothesized that elevated activity of protein kinase D1 (PKD1) could contribute to the decline in AMPK activity during the initial stage of rat hindlimb unloading. The present study demonstrates that the suppression of upregulated PKD1 activity via a specific inhibitor (CRT0066101) during 24-hour unloading results in the restoration of AMPK activity in the rat soleus muscle. Thus, we have shown for the first time the contribution of PKD1 to the regulation of AMPK activity in the mammalian postural muscle during the initial stage of hindlimb unloading.© 2026. Pleiades Publishing, Ltd.
Endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EndMT) drives the vascular remodeling in pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), yet the regulators that commit endothelial cells to this fate and whether they are pharmacologically addressable remain poorly defined. We report TK22, a small molecule that selectively erases the EndMT-competent endothelial state and reverses experimental pulmonary hypertension. TK22 was developed by structure-based design as an ATP-competitive CDK5 inhibitor (IC50 181 nM). Unbiased profiling across 394 kinases, however, revealed that TK22 inhibits the interphase cell-cycle kinases CDK2/3/4/6 node as well as a pro-mesenchymal node of AMPK-related kinases (NUAK1 and SIK1/2/3) together with PDGFRβ and MLK3, placing its activity at the intersection of proliferative and EndMT control rather than at a single node. Owing to this dual-node action, TK22 produced a strikingly clean cellular phenotype. In primary murine lung endothelial cells, TK22 reversed TGF-β1-induced EndMT across morphological, proteomic, and functional readouts, normalizing α-SMA, SM22, and Calponin, restoring angiogenic tube formation, abolishing acquired smooth-muscle-like contractility, and returning TGF-β1-driven hyperproliferation to baseline without suppressing normal endothelial growth. Single-cell RNA sequencing resolved the basis of this precision: TGF-β1 redirected a cycling Mki67+ endothelial subpopulation into an EndMT-committed state (Tnnt2, Ptgs2, Serpine1) and induced an associated metabolic-stress program (Egln3, Pfkfb3, Pdk1, Bnip3). Cross-validated PHATE and Monocle3 trajectory inference defined a directional proliferative-to-mesenchymal fate transition, and kernel density estimation revealed a stable EndMT cell-state attractor. TK22 selectively eliminated the EndMT-competent and metabolic-stress subpopulations while leaving the remaining endothelial landscape intact. This population-level precision of TK22 is consistent with its dual engagement of the anti-cell-cycle and anti-mesenchymal kinase nodes. In the Su5416/hypoxia rat PH model, TK22 normalized right ventricular systolic pressure, Fulton index, and cardiac function. Together, these findings reframe pharmacologic EndMT control: inhibition at the proliferative-to-mesenchymal fate branch point, through coordinated suppression of cell-cycle and mesenchymal kinases, achieves high selectivity for erasing a pathological endothelial fate state. These findings propose TK22 as a mechanistically precise agent for EndMT-driven vascular disease and establish single-cell trajectory analysis as an essential readout of cellular target engagement and cell-state precision.
Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is the most common genetic kidney disease worldwide, characterized by progressive cyst growth and inflammation, yet effective targeted therapies remain limited. Here we show that TMEM16A and MCP-1, key mediators of cyst-lining epithelial expansion and inflammatory macrophage recruitment respectively, are consistently upregulated in cyst-lining collecting duct (CD) epithelia across murine, porcine, and human ADPKD models. In human ADPKD patient cells, although individual silencing of TMEM16A or MCP-1 transcripts reduced cyst growth, combined silencing produced superior therapeutic efficacy, establishing the rationale for evaluating dual-target delivery. To achieve dual gene silencing in the kidneys, we delivered Tmem16a and Mcp -1 siRNA using peptide amphiphile micelles (PAMs), an ultrasmall nanoparticle platform that enables efficient renal targeting. To redirect siRNA-loaded PAMs to CD epithelia, we functionalized their surface with a CD-targeting peptide (CDM), which enabled preferential accumulation in cyst-lining CD epithelia. In an inducible Pkd1 -deficient mouse model, co-delivery of CDMs loaded with Tmem16a and Mcp-1 siRNA reduced kidney enlargement, cystic burden, tubular injury, and macrophage infiltration, with efficacy exceeding non-targeted siRNA delivery at equivalent doses. CDM demonstrated enhanced uptake in primary human ADPKD patient-derived CD cells and dual gene silencing reduced target gene expression and cyst expansion, establishing translational relevance. These findings establish CD peptide-functionalized micelles as a route to cell-type-selective RNAi in the kidney, delivering siRNA to cyst-lining CD cells. Furthermore, because both targets, TMEM16A and MCP-1 , are transcribed within CD cells, our siRNA-loaded CD-targeting micelles silence two drivers of cyst expansion, and their simultaneous suppression represents an effective therapeutic strategy for ADPKD.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder leading to dementia, disability, and premature death. Beta-amyloid (Aβ) and tau pathology are considered key components of its pathogenesis; however, the role of peripheral amyloid load in modulating pre-existing tau pathology remains understudied. We hypothesized that peripheral amyloid load could exacerbate tau pathology through mechanisms potentially linked to the disruption of the Akt/glycogen synthase kinase-3β-associated signaling pathway, which could lead to increased behavioral deficits and progression of neurodegenerative changes.To evaluate the effect of double peripheral (retro-orbital) administration of the Aβ isoform D7 on the behavioral phenotype, morphological signs of tau pathology, and the expression of genes related to Akt/GSK-3β-associated signaling, neuroinflammation, and apoptosis in the brains of P301S transgenic mice.The study included 12-week-old male P301S transgenic mice (Tg(Thy1-MAPT*P301S)2541Godt) (n = 20, biological duplication) and wild-type C57Black6/J mice (n = 10). P301S mice received two retro-orbital injections of isoD7-Aβ into the venous sinus at a dose of 100 µg (n = 10) with a 1-month interval; control P301S mice received an equivalent volume of water for injection (n = 10). Behavioral testing ("open field", "novel object recognition", "vertical pole", "inverted screen") was performed at 16 and 20 weeks of age. Tau pathology was assessed immunohistochemically using AT-8 (pSer202/pThr205) antibodies in the frontal cortex and brainstem, and amyloid deposits were assessed histologically using Congo red staining in the entorhinal cortex and hippocampus. The expression of Akt1, Gfap, Mapt, Cdk5, Casp3, Bax, and Bcl2 genes in brain tissue was analyzed by quantitative real-time PCR.Two peripheral administrations of isoD7-Aβ were not associated with further deterioration of performance in the "open field" and "novel object recognition" tests compared to the control P301S group, which likely reflects the already established deficit characteristic of this transgenic line. In contrast, in motor coordination tests ("vertical pole", "inverted screen"), motor impairments in the P301S+Aβ group emerged by week 16, whereas in P301S mice without amyloid load, they appeared only by week 20. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed an increase in AT-8-positive staining in the brainstem, whereas no statistically significant differences were found between groups in the frontal cortex. Histological analysis did not reveal amyloid plaques in the entorhinal cortex and hippocampus of P301S+Aβ mice and control P301S mice. At the molecular level, the P301S+Aβ group showed decreased Akt1 expression, increased Gfap and Bax expression, and decreased Bcl2 expression, with no significant changes in Mapt, Casp3, and Cdk5. This pattern is consistent with dysregulation of Akt/GSK-3β-associated signaling, enhanced glial activation, and a pro-apoptotic shift.Two peripheral administrations of isoD7-Aβ to P301S mice were associated with earlier development of motor impairments, increased tau protein phosphorylation, and changes in gene expression consistent with a disrupted Akt/GSK-3β-associated signaling pathway. These findings support the hypothesis that peripheral amyloid load can exacerbate tauopathy manifestations, and the observed transcriptional changes are consistent with the possible involvement of the Akt/GSK-3β-associated signaling pathway, which may represent a potential therapeutic target in AD.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) accounts for 5-10% of prevalent end-stage kidney failure (ESKD). ADPKD cysts result from a loss of sufficient functional expression of PKD1/Polycystin-1 (PC1) in approximately 80% of families. Kidney disease severity correlates with the extent to which PC1 dosage is reduced below a critical level, and evidence suggests therapeutic benefit from increasing PC1 expression in these conditions. Upstream open reading frame (uORF) translation can reduce translation of a protein's coding sequence. Ribosome profiling data and bioinformatic predictions suggested the presence of conserved PKD1 uORFs, so we sought to explore their biological role. We generated luciferase reporters and two humanized PKD1 5'UTR mouse models with or without single nucleotide edits removing uORF start codons ("delta-uORF") to define active uORFs and test their impact on PC1 translation. PKD1 uORF start codons can robustly initiate translation and delta-uORF conveys a 2-4-fold increase in PC1 protein expression and resultant prevention of kidney cysts in Dnajb11 as well as in Pkd1 missense models. PKD1 uORF1-blocking steric antisense oligonucleotides (ASOs) substantially increase PC1 expression in vitro. PKD1 uORFs play an important role in the low basal expression of wild-type PKD1, and their inhibition represents an opportunity to therapeutically increase PC1 translation in polycystic kidney and liver disease resulting from reduced dosage of PC1.
Influenza A virus (IAV) remains a major global health threat due to its high mutation rate and the emergence of antiviral resistance. Targeting host factors provides an alternative therapeutic strategy to overcome these challenges. Previous studies have shown that the L-type calcium channel Cav1.2 was implicated in viral infections. In this study, we aimed to clarify the mechanism by which Cav1.2 acts as a critical host factor mediating IAV infection, using the dihydropyridine-type calcium channel blocker nisoldipine. Nisoldipine showed notable antiviral activity in both in vitro and in vivo models. Mechanistically, nisoldipine inhibited IAV internalization by targeting Cav1.2, thereby suppressing calcium-dependent activation of the Ras-PI3K-AKT, RhoA-ROCK, and JNK pathways associated with viral internalization. Moreover, nisoldipine modulated the unfolded protein response (UPR) in host cells by promoting adaptive XBP1 splicing and contributed to the maintenance of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) homeostasis during IAV infection. Collectively, these observations support a sequential cascade model: Cav1.2 inhibition restrains viral entry and indirectly mitigates virus-triggered ER stress. Furthermore, nisoldipine exhibits broad-spectrum in vitro antiviral activity against multiple enveloped RNA and DNA viruses, including human coronavirus OC43 (HCoV-OC43), respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), Zika virus (ZIKV), Dengue virus Type 2 (DENV2), and Herpes Simplex Virus Type 1/2 (HSV-1/2). This study clarifies the mechanistic involvement of Cav1.2 in IAV infection and further identifies it as a promising broad-spectrum antiviral target with potential applications in preventing and treating influenza, human coronavirus infections, and other emerging viral diseases.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The purpose of this study was to investigate cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD) and polypoidal choroidal vasculopathy (PCV) via single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), then focusing on caveolae-resident proteins based on identified negatively enriched caveolae via Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA).Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from patients with nAMD/PCV (n = 10) and healthy controls (n = 9) were collected. A total of 22,593 high-quality monocytes were analyzed for differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and GSEA. The key finding of negatively enriched caveola was recapitulated by in vitro mRNA transfections in THP-1 monocytes and human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), followed by validation using qPCR. Functional assays and cytokine profiling were also performed.A total of 122 significant pathways was identified from WikiPathways, Reactome, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and Gene Ontology. GSEA revealed significant negative enrichment of caveola in classical monocytes of PCV (NES = -1.769, P = 0.001, q = 0.026). Cytokine/chemokine profiling revealed that Caveolin (CAV)1/2-overexpressing monocytes secreted markedly higher levels of several proinflammatory mediators, including IL-1β, IL-2, IL-8, IL-17, TNF-α, PDGF-BB, and MIP-1α/β. CAV1 or CAV2 overexpression in THP-1 cells increased monocyte adhesion but inhibited transendothelial migration. In HUVECs, their overexpression induced moderate cytokine profiles, including downregulation of RANTES (CCL5), IL-10, and VEGF, and upregulation of IL-6 and MIP-1α. CAV1/2 overexpression also significantly inhibited tube formation, whereas knockdown of CAV1 or CAV2 enhanced tube formation.Caveolins appear to contribute to the pathogenesis of nAMD and PCV as modulators of inflammation and vascular function. Enhanced CAV1/2 expression in endothelial cells attenuates angiogenic activity, indicating a potential therapeutic strategy.
Ischemic stroke is a leading cause of mortality and disability worldwide, and disruption of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) plays a critical role in its pathogenesis. Nitric oxide has been reported to exert neuroprotective effects, but its therapeutic application remains limited. This study aimed to evaluate the neuroprotective effects of a nitric oxide-releasing butylphthalide derivative and to elucidate its underlying mechanisms, particularly in relation to BBB preservation. We investigated compound 10 exhibited potent neuroprotective activity with favorable safety and BBB permeability. In a rat middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) model, compound 10 significantly reduced infarct volume and alleviated histopathological damage. Mechanistically, compound 10 suppressed neuroinflammation and oxidative stress, as evidenced by reduced pro-inflammatory cytokine levels, inhibition of microglial activation, and restoration of antioxidant capacity. Notably, compound 10 effectively preserved BBB integrity, as demonstrated by decreased Evans blue extravasation and upregulation of tight junction proteins. Further investigation revealed that these protective effects were mediated through activation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) signaling, leading to increased Cav-1 expression and suppression of MMP-9-dependent BBB disruption. Pharmacological inhibition of eNOS abolished these effects, confirming the critical role of the eNOS/Cav-1/MMP-9 axis. This study identifies compound 10 as a promising multifunctional neuroprotective agent and highlights NO-mediated BBB protection as a viable therapeutic strategy for ischemic stroke.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
Voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs) regulate differentiation, function, and survival of excitable cells, and pathogenic variants cause diverse disorders. Most known disease-associated VGCC mutations affect well-characterized regions controlling voltage-dependent gating and channel kinetics, while many residues remain functionally unannotated. We developed an evolutionary model to predict the pathogenic potential of residues in the pore-forming Cav1.3 subunit, previously validated with de novo gain-of-function variants linked to neurodevelopmental diseases. Here we show that the model recapitulates established functional regions and prospectively identifies functional sites at single-amino acid resolution. Electrophysiological analyses of five predicted variants across multiple channel domains confirmed functional alterations. The approach also captures loss-of-function variants typically pathogenic only in the homozygous state, establishing a predictive framework for identifying and functionally characterizing pathogenic variants in Cav1.3 and related ion channels.
Synaptic dysfunction and neurite remodeling are early features of many inherited retinal diseases, but whether synaptic function can be restored after circuit remodeling remains unclear. We evaluated the therapeutic potential of adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated α2δ4 gene supplementation in a mouse model of CACNA2D4-associated retinal synaptopathy.AAV8-GRK1-α2δ4 was delivered by subretinal injection to α2δ4 knockout mice at neonatal, young adult, or middle-aged adult stages. Retinal function was assessed by electroretinography. Synaptic organization and circuit remodeling were evaluated by immunohistochemistry.AAV-mediated α2δ4 expression restored synaptic localization of Cav1.4, ELFN proteins, and mGluR6 at all treatment ages. However, circuit structure and functional rescue were age- and circuit-dependent. Neonatal treatment restored rod and cone transmission and prevented photoreceptor terminal retraction and bipolar cell dendritic sprouting. Rescue in young adults improved rod and cone circuit function but did not reverse neurite remodeling. Rescue in middle-aged mice restored cone but not rod transmission. Notably, neonatal treatment produced the highest proportion of synapses within synaptic layer, whereas adult treatment generated increasing ectopic synapses in nuclear layer.Photoreceptor synaptic assembly remains plastic in remodeled retinas and can be restored by α2δ4 supplementation. However, rescue efficacy is influenced by age and circuits with rod circuits exhibiting a narrower therapeutic window. Synaptic molecular reassembly can occur without neurite restoration. These findings establish α2δ4 gene therapy as a promising treatment for CACNA2D4-associated retinal synaptopathy and reveal distinct intervention windows for synaptic assembly, neurite remodeling, and rod versus cone circuit recovery.
The Cavβ4 subunit of voltage-gated Cav1.2 channels regulates gene expression in neurons and cardiac cells. It increases the expression of interferon-β-related genes in H9c2 cardiomyocytes derived from rat ventricular tissue, but the possibility that it also regulates the expression of microRNAs (miRs) remains unexplored. Furthermore, its role in cardiac hypertrophy is unknown. Although the mechanisms underlying cardiac hypertrophy have been studied extensively, the antihypertrophic response is poorly understood. We conducted quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, western blot, and immunofluorescence experiments with H9c2 cardiomyocytes to examine the effects of Cavβ4 overexpression on isoproterenol-induced hypertrophy; the protein abundance of the transcription factors nuclear receptor 4A2 (NR4A2) and forkhead box O1 (FOXO1), which counter agonist-induced hypertrophic growth; and the expression of miR-183-5p, which targets NR4A2 and FOXO1 mRNAs. We found that the Cavβ4 subunit prevented the development of H9c2 cardiomyocyte hypertrophy, down-regulating miR-183-5p expression and increasing the protein abundance of NR4A2 and FOXO1. We also observed a transient decrease in Cavβ4 mRNA expression in rat ventricles at 6 h after isoproterenol injection. These results suggest that the Cavβ4 subunit plays a channel-independent role in the antihypertrophic response in cardiac muscle cells.© 2026 The Author(s). Physiological Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Physiological Society and the American Physiological Society.
Chronic inflammation in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) disrupts the gut-brain axis, thereby inducing abnormal immune responses in the brain that are increasingly recognized as a source of neurological comorbidities. In the present work, we investigated the structural integrity and electrophysiological function of hippocampal cornu ammonis 1 (CA1) pyramidal neurons in a rat model of ulcerative colitis induced by dextran sulfate sodium administration. Moreover, given the known neuroprotective properties of the nutraceutical creatine, we aimed to determine whether its oral supplementation prevents or mitigates hippocampal alterations caused by chronic colitis. In both, we also examined the sex differences. Our findings reveal that male rats exhibited a greater colitis-induced hippocampal neuroinflammation, while microglial activation does not differ between sexes. Males developed a markedly altered hippocampal phenotype characterized by significant CA1 neuronal damage, reduced intrinsic excitability reflected by increased rheobase, remodeled inward and outward membrane current profiles and upregulation of a key ion channel such as Kv2.1. In contrast, females displayed a substantially milder phenotype, showing conserved neuronal integrity and electrophysiological properties despite molecular changes including increased Cav1.2. This indicates that the magnitude of hippocampal damage correlates with the severity of colitis-induced neuroinflammation, which differs between sexes. Significantly, creatine supplementation was highly effective in both sexes and prevented colitis-induced hippocampal neuroinflammation, microglial activation, neuronal damage, and electrophysiological dysfunction. The supplementation restored hippocampal creatine levels, preserved neuronal integrity, and normalized impaired excitability. This protective action is exerted only on those parameters altered by colitis, suggesting that the seemingly smaller effect of creatine in females is due to their lower initial pathological burden. Our results indicate a pronounced hippocampal vulnerability of males to chronic colitis and establish creatine as a promising, potent neuromodulator to prevent inflammation-driven brain dysfunction.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Mesenchymal stem cell (MSC)-based therapies present substantial opportunities for regenerative medicine, yet the absence of lineage-specific tools for precise cell recruitment constitutes a primary limitation. In this study, we developed a novel ssDNA aptamer, designated as Pt-1, specifically evolved against human dental pulp stem cells (hDPSCs) using Cell-SELEX technology. Pt-1 exhibited high target specificity, strong binding affinity, and favorable physiological stability. Notably, Pt-1 identified a distinct subpopulation within heterogeneous DPSCs; the Pt-1high subset displayed significantly enhanced proliferative capacity and osteo/odontogenic potential compared to the Pt-1Low group. Through proteomic analysis and molecular docking, we elucidated that Pt-1 recognizes Cav1-associated target as its membrane target. To translate this molecular recognition into a regenerative strategy, we engineered a Pt-1-functionalized ChSMA hydrogel. This bio-instructive scaffold demonstrated superior efficacy in orchestrating the homing of endogenous MSCs in vitro and in vivo compared to the established Apt19S aptamer. In rat models of dental pulp and femoral bone defects, the Pt-1-modified hydrogel significantly accelerated tissue restoration, promoting more mature trabecular bone formation and pulp tissue regeneration. In summary, we developed a novel ssDNA aptamer targeting MSCs and established an aptamer-based strategy for precise endogenous cell recruitment, opening new therapeutic avenues for regenerative medicine.© 2026 The Authors.
Endothelial cells play a crucial role in tumor invasion and metastasis. This study explored endothelial cell-targeted therapies for ovarian cancer (OC).The scRNA-seq data were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database for cell clustering analysis. Key genes were identified through integrated analysis of bulk RNA-seq data from the GTEx and TCGA databases. Receptor-ligand interactions were inferred using the "CellChat" R package. Hub genes in endothelial cells were screened by hdWGCNA and intersected with protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis (cytoHubba) to obtain candidate genes. Biomarker genes were further selected using SVM-RFE and LASSO regression analysis. Drug prediction and immune infiltration analyses were subsequently performed. The role of COL1A1 was further investigated through in vitro cellular assays.Eight major cell subpopulations, including T cells and endothelial cells, were identified, with intercellular communication mediated by ligand-receptor pairs such as HLA-C-KIR2DL3 and CD99-CD99 pairs. hdWGCNA classified 5 modules and obtained 50 hub genes, from which cytoHubba screened 10 key intersecting genes. LASSO regression and SVM-RFE jointly identified 5 signature genes (CAV1, COL1A1, COL3A1, PDGFRB, and TIMP3). The expression of these genes was correlated positively with StromalScore, ImmuneScore, and ESTIMATEScore. Predicting cytarabine, genistein, and sorafenib were predicted as potential drugs for OC. COL1A1 knockdown inhibited the viability, migration, and invasion of OC cells in vitro.This study identified endothelial cells as an OC subpopulation and discovered 5 potential biomarker genes related to angiogenesis, immune infiltration, and prognosis in OC. Potential drugs for the treatment of OC were predicted, but further validations are also required.Our research revealed new clusters of endothelial cells in OC and identified potential biomarkers, contributing to the OC treatment that targets endothelial cells.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Single-molecule localization microscopy (SMLM) achieves nanoscale imaging of complex protein structures in the cell. However, the ability to capture structural variability across cell conditions (cell lines, gene expression, treatment) from 3D point cloud SMLM data remains limited. We present siMILe, a weakly supervised multiple instance learning machine learning method to close this gap in interpretable subcellular discovery. siMILe identifies condition-specific changes in protein assemblies by leveraging their shape and network features, without requiring structure-level supervision. siMILe improves structure classification by extending embedded instance selection through adversarial erasing and a symmetric classifier. We validated siMILe by detecting caveolae from caveolin-1 (Cav1) labeled PC3 prostate cancer cells differentially expressing cavin-1. In PC3-CAVIN1 cells, cavin-1 closely associates with siMILe-identified caveolae, to a lesser extent with higher-order noncaveolar Cav1 scaffolds, but not small Cav1 oligomers corresponding to 8S complexes, supporting a role for progressive cavin-1 interaction in 8S complex oligomerization. We also validated siMILe on simulated SMLM data and in detecting inhibitor-induced structural variations within clathrin-coated pit data. These results highlight siMILe's potential to identify differential molecular structures in distinct cell conditions. siMILe extends the SuperResNET SMLM software platform with the ability to detect interpretable structural differences across conditions.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Intelligent Systems published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Hippocampal place cell activity represents an animal's location in space; yet, how hippocampal neuronal population dynamics change with spatial learning and the mechanisms underlying these activity changes, which drive allocentric navigation to a learned goal, are poorly understood. To address these questions, we performed calcium imaging with a novel wire-free waterproof miniaturized microscope to image the activity of large populations of hippocampal CA1 neurons during spatial learning of a two-dimensional navigational task, the Morris water maze. We followed the same cells during learning and were able to directly examine how each neuron in the ensemble, and the ensemble as a whole, changes its response properties. We found that neuronal spatial selectivity increased and population decoding of spatial location improved as mice learned to navigate to the goal. Viral CRISPR knock out of Grin1 (encoding the essential GluN1 NMDA receptor subunit) in dorsal hippocampal neurons, dramatically reduced long-term potentiation in CA1. This manipulation also prevented the increase in spatial selectivity and improvement of population decoding with spatial learning and resulted in learning deficits in the Morris water maze. Together, our results show that dorsal hippocampus NMDAR-dependent synaptic plasticity is essential for the learning-dependent refinement of CA1 place selectivity and improvement in population decoding of space.
Amyloid-β accumulation, aberrant tau protein, neuroinflammation, and oxidative stress are some of the main pathogenic characteristics of Alzheimer's disease (AD), a degenerative illness characterized by cognitive deterioration. The majority of current AD therapies provide symptomatic alleviation with significant adverse effects, highlighting the urgent need for novel therapeutic approaches.This study examines nefopam, a centrally acting analgesic with NMDA antagonist and monoaminergic properties, as a potential treatment for AD using in silico methods like Network Pharmacology, Docking, and Molecular Dynamics Simulation studies.Using network pharmacology, 90 molecular targets shared by the AD and nefopam pathways were identified. Following the selection of important hub proteins for further analysis, eight proteins with accessible 3D structures were put through molecular docking and MMGBSA computations. Nefopam demonstrated significant binding affinities, especially to 5HTR2A, GRIN1, 5HTR2C, SLC6A4, SLC6A3, and MAOB, whereas OPRM1 displayed weaker interactions, consistent with its lower MM-GBSA value (-37.04 kcal/mol) and docking score (-2.963). Molecular dynamics simulations of particular complexes over 100 ns revealed stable contacts and minimal structural changes for SLC6A3, SLC6A4, and 5HTR2A, suggesting strong and long-lasting binding.The findings suggest that nefopam exhibits significant multi-target interactions with several proteins involved in AD pathogenesis, particularly those associated with neurotransmission, neuroprotection, and neuroinflammatory pathways. Its stable binding behavior and favorable interaction profiles support its potential role in modulating disease progression beyond symptomatic management.Overall, this computational analysis confirms that nefopam can target multiple proteins linked to AD. These results show that more experimental research is necessary to validate nefopam's therapeutic potential and provide positive support for its repositioning in AD treatment.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Background Cognitive symptoms after SARS-CoV-2 infection, often described as "brain fog," remain difficult to measure objectively and are biologically heterogeneous. DNA methylation may provide a stable, blood-accessible layer of information linking post-COVID immune remodeling, biological aging, and neuropsychiatric vulnerability. We re-analyzed GSE247869, a whole-blood Illumina MethylationEPIC dataset from individuals sampled six months after COVID-19 infection, to identify age-associated methylation signals with translational relevance. The present analysis was designed to characterize age-associated methylation within this post-COVID cohort, not to establish a COVID-19-specific signature or biological age acceleration. Methodology This was a cross-sectional analysis of a single post-COVID cohort, with 94 samples included in the age models and no COVID-19-negative comparator included in the analyzed model. Processed beta values were aligned to metadata, converted to M-values, and modeled at each cytosine-phosphate-guanine (CpG) using ordinary least squares with age and sex as predictors. Differentially methylated positions were corrected by Benjamini-Hochberg false discovery rate (FDR). CpGs were mapped to genes using robust annotation and Illumina manifest fallback. Gene-level signals were integrated using a multi-evidence prioritization score that incorporated statistical strength, effect size, multi-CpG support, direction consistency, known epigenetic-clock membership, and curated pathway membership. Results Within this cohort, the analysis identified 3,467 age-associated CpGs at FDR < 0.05, with an overall hypomethylation bias but focal hypermethylation at canonical aging loci. In total, 11 of 12 reference clock CpGs were recovered, including ELOVL2, FHL2, TRIM59, EDARADD, ASPA, and PDE4C. The strongest exploratory signal was enrichment of glutamatergic/N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) genes, including GRIN1, GRIN2C, GRIN2D, GRM1, GRM5, and SLC17A7. GRIN1 and GRIN2C had high integrated evidence scores and showed age-associated hypermethylation. The prioritized genes mapped interpretively to glutamatergic synapse, calcium signaling, and cAMP signaling pathways, although these complete KEGG pathways were not tested as formal enrichment categories. Conclusions This re-analysis recovered established age-associated CpGs and identified age-associated methylation enrichment near glutamatergic/NMDA genes within this post-COVID cohort. It cannot determine whether these signals are specific to COVID-19 infection, reflect accelerated biological aging, or relate to cognitive symptoms because no COVID-19-negative comparator or symptom-level cognitive phenotyping was included in the present analysis. The glutamatergic finding is hypothesis-generating, particularly because the curated set was small and no independent replication cohort was analyzed. Future longitudinal and case-control studies integrating GRIN1/GRIN2C methylation with cognitive and inflammatory phenotyping are needed. Glutamatergic and calcium-signaling pathways may be evaluated in appropriately designed mechanistic and intervention studies, including but not limited to hypotheses related to the Cheung Glutamatergic Regimen, only after independent validation and careful safety evaluation.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) initiates with subtle neuroimmune alterations that precede overt synaptic loss and neuronal death, yet the early sequence linking Aβ exposure to glial activation remains incompletely understood. To capture early neuroimmune dynamics with greater physiological relevance, we employed primary mixed neuron-glia cultures derived from the hippocampi of postnatal day 1 (P1) mice. Unlike conventional coculture systems, these hippocampal mixed cultures preserve intrinsic neuron-astrocyte-microglia communication and recapitulate key features of the in vivo hippocampal microenvironment. Using this model, we investigated whether cannabidiol (CBD) modulates the initial pathogenic events triggered by Aβ25-35 during a 24h simultaneous cotreatment in cell culture. Aβ exposure induced robust hippocampal glial activation, oxidative stress, and elevated levels of proinflammatory mediators, particularly IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α. Notably, hippocampal synaptic and neurogenic markers (5HT1A, Gria1, GRIN1, DCX, PSD-95) remained largely unaltered at this early stage, revealing a temporal dissociation in which glial-driven inflammation precedes synaptic dysfunction. CBD significantly attenuated inflammatory and oxidative responses and prevented Aβ-induced cellular damage, indicating engagement of endocannabinoid-related mechanisms that constrain early hippocampal glial reactivity. Although CBD did not fully normalize all glial alterations, it preserved hippocampal synaptic integrity and halted progression toward neuronal dysfunction. Together, these findings identify early hippocampal glial inflammation as a primary target of CBD and provide mechanistic insight into the temporal sequence linking Aβ exposure to neuroimmune activation. These results highlight early glial responses as a critical window for therapeutic intervention and support cannabinoid-based strategies to modulate the initial stages of Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis.© 2026 Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The optimal timing and therapeutic role of dexamethasone for neuroprotection in neonatal hypoxic-ischemic (HI) brain injury remain unclear. We investigated whether dexamethasone-mediated neuroprotection is time-dependent and explored its underlying molecular mechanisms in a neonatal HI mouse model. The Rice-Vannucci model (unilateral carotid artery ligation followed by 8% O2 for 90 min) was constructed utilizing postnatal day 7 mice who received vehicle (n = 5), dexamethasone pre-treatment (0.5 mg/kg, 6 h before HI; n = 6), or dexamethasone post-treatment (0.5 mg/kg, 6 h after HI; n = 6). Brain injury severity was evaluated by two blinded investigators 72 h after HI, who measured the whitish discoloration in the ipsilateral hemisphere. Transcriptomic analysis was performed using five representative brain samples from each group. Dexamethasone pre-treatment significantly reduced the area of whitish discoloration compared with the vehicle (p < 0.001); dexamethasone post-treatment exerted no significant protective effect. Transcriptomic profiling identified 962 (407 upregulated and 555 downregulated) differentially expressed genes. Genes with upregulated expressions were enriched in pathways related to central nervous system development, synaptic signaling, and calcium homeostasis; those with downregulated expressions were associated with cellular metabolic processes. Protein-protein interaction network analysis identified Dlg4, Calm1, and Grin1 as hub genes. qRT-PCR validation confirmed significant upregulation of Grin1 and Calm1, whereas Dlg4 showed a concordant but non-significant trend. These findings suggest that dexamethasone pre-treatment may be associated with time-dependent changes in synaptic- and calcium-related gene expression following neonatal HI injury, providing insight into the optimal therapeutic window for neonatal HI brain injury.
Aldehyde dehydrogenase 1A1-positive (ALDH1A1+) dopaminergic neurons (DANs) are preferentially vulnerable in Parkinson's disease (PD), yet how their activity is modulated by presynaptic inputs remains poorly defined. Here we investigated the role of glutamatergic input by conditionally deleting Grin1, which encodes a critical NMDA receptor (NMDAR) subunit, in ALDH1A1+ DANs. Grin1 conditional knockout (cKO) mice displayed normal locomotion and motor learning; however, females exhibited enhanced operant reward acquisition and excessive feeding with transient weight gain following food restriction. To determine regional contributions, Grin1 was selectively knocked down in ALDH1A1+ DANs of either the ventral tegmental area (VTA) or substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc). VTA-specific knockdown in females was sufficient to reproduce the post-restriction feeding and weight gain phenotype. Bulk whole-brain mRNA sequencing revealed pronounced sex-dependent transcriptional changes, primarily in female Grin1 cKO mice after food restriction. Many differentially expressed genes were associated with mitochondrial function, energy metabolism, and synaptic signaling. Together, these findings reveal a sex-specific role for NMDAR-mediated glutamatergic input to ALDH1A1+ VTA DANs in regulating feeding behavior, providing mechanistic insight into how dysfunction of this vulnerable subpopulation may contribute to PD-associated compulsive eating disorders.
Neurodegenerative diseases constitute a major public health burden, with neurotoxicity representing a critical pathogenic mechanism underlying Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Current therapeutic approaches are primarily symptomatic and fail to prevent disease progression, highlighting the urgent need for neuroprotective agents that can modulate pathological pathways at their source. Natural fungal metabolites have emerged as promising sources of bioactive compounds with potential neuroprotective properties. This study investigates the neuroprotective potential of bioactive compounds derived from the Arctic fungus Pseudogymnoascus australis (P. australis) using an integrated in silico method. From 120 identified compounds, nine were selected based on favorable blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability and pharmacokinetic profiles using ADMET 3.0 predictions. These included 2-aminohexadecanoic acid (AHA), 11-aminoundecanoic acid (AUA), and seven others, all exhibiting optimal drug-likeness (>0.83) and suitable CNS-targeting properties. Network pharmacology analysis identified 226 overlapping targets between the fungal compounds and neurotoxicity-associated genes. Nine hub genes (Gria1, Gria2, Gria4, Grik1, Grik2, Grin1, Grin2a, Grin2b, and Grin2c) were identified as critical nodes. Enrichment analyses revealed significant involvement in the neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction pathway, suggesting these compounds modulate ionotropic glutamate receptors. Molecular docking analysis showed strong binding affinities, with 78% of ligand-receptor complexes displaying RMSD values below 2.0 Å. AHA and Grik1 emerged as the most promising pair, with a docking score of -7.90 kcal/mol and excellent pharmacokinetic properties (drug-likeness: 0.462, BBB penetration: 0.985). Molecular dynamics simulations over 100 nanoseconds confirmed complex stability, with a mean RMSD of 2.45 Å and binding energies averaging -169.02 kcal/mol, demonstrating sustained ligand-protein interactions. These computational findings provide evidence that P. australis contains bioactive compounds capable of attenuating neurotoxicity through sustained modulation of glutamate receptors, with molecular dynamics validation supporting the thermodynamic stability and potential therapeutic relevance of these interactions.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Certain events that occur in early life, such as changes in nutrition, can induce structural and functional modifications in brain development, leading to behavioral programing in the offspring. These effects depend on the timing, intensity, and duration of exposure, and may contribute to chronic disorders in adulthood. Artificial non-nutritive sweeteners (NNS), such as saccharin, have recently been proposed as potential developmental disruptors. Saccharin consumption during pregnancy is discouraged, as it can cross the placenta and accumulate in the fetus.In this study, pregnant rats were administered 0.1% saccharin in drinking water throughout gestation. On postnatal day 21, offspring were assessed for behavioral outcomes using the open field and elevated plus maze tests. During sacrifice, the prefrontal cortex of the animals was collected.Gestational saccharin exposure induced sex-specific behavioral changes: offspring of saccharin-consuming mothers spent more time in the center of the arena, while only females showed increased open-arm entries. These alterations were coupled with changes in prefrontal endocannabinoid, glutamatergic, and GABAergic gene expression. Only saccharin-exposed male pups showed significant alterations in Dagla, Daglb and Gpr55 along with increased expression of glutamatergic receptors (Grin1, Grin2a, Grin2c, Gria1, Grm3). Females exhibited reduced expression of GABAergic receptor genes (Gabrg2, Gabbr2), and significant changes in the phosphorylated expression of proteins involved in the insulin pathway (IRS-1, PI3K, AKT, GSK3b).These findings suggest that developmental NNS exposure produces long-lasting behavioral outcomes in offspring, which are linked to alterations in multiple signaling pathways within the prefrontal cortex.Copyright © 2026 Pacheco-Sánchez, López-Merchán, Rubio, García-Martos, Suárez, Sanjuan, Rubio, Martín-de-Las-Heras, Rodríguez de Fonseca, Alén, de Ceglia and Rivera.
Anxiety is one of the most common mental health disorders today, often leading to panic, restlessness, and tension. Conventional treatments can cause adverse effects, prompting interest in plant-based alternatives. Glycowithanolides from Withania somnifera (WSGs) have demonstrated neuroprotective effects, but their role in anxiety management remains underexplored. This study evaluates the anxiolytic potential of WSGs using an integrated computational approach combining pharmacokinetic profiling, network pharmacology, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. Eleven WSGs exhibited favorable blood-brain barrier permeability and drug-likeness, complying with Lipinski's Rule of Five. Network pharmacology revealed key interactions between WSGs and anxiolytic pathways such as cAMP, Ras, and calcium signaling, as well as addiction-related pathways. Genes like GRIN1, CHRM1, NFKB1, and HDAC2 emerged as potential targets, with GRIN1 identified as the central hub. Molecular docking of the WSGs with GRIN1 (PDB ID: 5EWM) indicated strong binding affinities, and the best-scoring ligand-receptor complex was further evaluated through MD simulations to assess stability and interactions. Results suggest strong binding of WSGs to GRIN1 and indicate a potential modulatory role; however, the proposed mechanism remains hypothesis-generating and requires experimental validation. Overall, this study highlights the therapeutic promise of glycowithanolides in managing anxiety disorders and offers a mechanistic basis for future experimental validation.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s40203-026-00640-5.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Prostate cancer resistance to androgen deprivation therapy often involves neuroendocrine transformation. Using single-cell RNA sequencing of transgenic adenocarcinoma of the mouse prostate (TRAMP) mice across pathological stages (early adenocarcinoma to late neuroendocrine prostate cancer [NEPC]), we find an early neuroendocrine-initiating cluster marked by elevated HOXD11, conserved in human NEPC. Genetic suppression of HOXD11 blocks neuroendocrine differentiation and restores androgen receptor (AR) signaling. Mechanistically, HOXD11 directly activates FOXA2 and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) subunits (GRIN1/GRIN3A), pathways upregulated in NEPC and linked to poor prognosis. Pharmacological NMDAR inhibition with memantine suppresses NEPC progression preclinically. Notably, a preliminary clinical observation in one evaluable patient with chemotherapy-failed NEPC shows radiographic regression of primary and metastatic lesions after memantine treatment. These findings establish HOXD11 as a driver of neuroendocrine transformation and support further investigation of memantine as a candidate therapeutic strategy for NEPC.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is a major cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide. Understanding the mechanism of LUAD progression will aid in the development of therapeutic approaches targeting this malignancy. Hypoxia is characteristic of solid tumors and contributes significantly to LUAD progression, although the molecular mechanisms involved have not been fully elucidated. Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are key regulators of cancer progression. Here, we identify SLC9A3-AS1 as a previously unrecognized hypoxia-induced lncRNA that is aberrantly upregulated in LUAD tissues. Functional analyses demonstrated that SLC9A3-AS1 promotes LUAD cell proliferation, migration, and invasion in vitro, as well as tumor growth in vivo. Mechanistically, SLC9A3-AS1 acts as a competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) by binding to miR-506-5p, alleviating the post-transcriptional repression of aspartate β-hydroxylase (ASPH) and activating NOTCH1 signaling. ASPH overexpression or miR-506-5p inhibition counteracts the effects of SLC9A3-AS1 knockdown, restoring LUAD cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) capacity. Furthermore, we report that SLC9A3-AS1 is a hypoxia-responsive gene that is transcriptionally activated by hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) in LUAD cells. Collectively, these results identify SLC9A3-AS1 as a key hypoxia-induced regulator of LUAD progression and reveal a miR-506-5p/ASPH/NOTCH1 signaling pathway that drives oncogenic activity. These findings provide new insights for the diagnosis and treatment of LUAD.© 2026. The Author(s).
To report a rare case of Shawaf-Traboulsi presenting with optic disc edema in the United States.A 23-year-old male with a history of bilateral microspherophakia requiring lens extraction at age 15. Facial dysmorphisms were noted, including malar hypoplasia and downward slanting palpebral fissures. Best corrected visual acuity was 20/30-1 OD and 20/70-1 OS and Goldmann applanation tonometry showed 6 mmHg OD and 11 mmHg OS. Slit-lamp exam demonstrated bilateral nasal subconjunctival filtering blebs and a superonasal staphyloma. Gonioscopy revealed peripheral anterior synechiae and a nasal angle discontinuity cleft OD. Diagnostic modalities included B-scan ultrasonography (demonstrating optic nerve head edema bilaterally) and anterior segment optical coherence tomography (AS-OCT), which revealed nasal filtration with formation of a scleral lake. Next-generation sequencing identified a homozygous variant in exon 25 of the ASPH gene, confirming Shawaf-Traboulsi syndrome.This represents one of the first documented cases of this syndrome in the United States and the first describing optic disc edema secondary to spontaneous filtering blebs. Early genetic testing is essential for appropriate diagnosis, counseling, systemic evaluation for cardiac anomalies, and preventing vision-threatening sequelae of Shawaf-Traboulsi syndrome.
Early liver metastasis is a major factor contributing to the poor prognosis of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) can analyze the heterogeneity between the primary tumor and metastatic lesions, but its wide clinical application is limited by costs, tissue requirements, and analytical complexity. In contrast, H&E-stained sections are more commonly available. However, it is not clear whether the risk signals derived from images can truly reflect the biological characteristics related to metastasis. We integrated the single-cell RNA sequencing data (GSE154778) of primary and metastatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) with TCGA transcriptome, clinical pathological, and H&E image data. The copy number pattern based on InferCNV was used to distinguish malignant ductal cells with high copy numbers from ductal cells with low copy numbers. Differential expression and LASSO screening identified a transfer-related feature consisting of four genes (ARHGAP18, ASPH, EIF4EBP1, LY6D), and this feature was subsequently associated with image-derived features extracted through a dual-stream pathomics pipeline. The reproducibility of transcriptional levels in prognosis was evaluated in six independent GEO PDAC subgroups, and the locked pathological model was further tested on an external CPTAC subset using frozen cutoff values from TCGA. Pseudotime analysis suggested that a subset of metastatic malignant ductal cells occupied a progenitor-like transcriptional state. Cell-cell communication analysis indicated reduced antigen-presentation/prostaglandin-related signaling and relative enrichment of MIF- and laminin-associated pathways in metastases. The pathology model retained prognostic stratification in the internal TCGA validation split, although discrimination was lower than in training. Across six external GEO cohorts analyzed with cohort-specific optimal cutoffs, LY6D showed significant adverse survival associations in four cohorts, ARHGAP18 and ASPH in three cohorts each, and EIF4EBP1 in one cohort. In the external CPTAC cohort, the locked pathomics score also remained prognostic (HR 1.60, 95% CI 1.11-2.30; log-rank P = 0.011), with 12-, 24-, and 36-month time-dependent AUCs of 0.635, 0.617, and 0.639. This study presents an integrative genotype-to-phenotype workflow linking scRNA-seq-derived metastatic features to routine pathology images. External transcript-level validation and supportive CPTAC pathomics evaluation strengthen the findings, but larger independent validation studies and mechanistic experiments remain necessary before any clinical translation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Cancer development is shaped by host-microbe interactions, including viral infections. While several viruses are established oncogenic drivers, their potential protective roles in cancer remain unclear. Here we identify a dominant antibody response to CE1, a consensus epitope of enterovirus and rhinovirus, that is associated with reduced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) incidence and mortality. Anti-CE1 antibodies selectively recognize HCC cells and mediate anti-tumor activity through NK cell-mediated antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC). Mechanistically, anti-CE1 antibodies cross-react with aspartate β-hydroxylase (ASPH), with CE1-ASPH sequence homology underpinning tumor recognition and cytotoxicity. Clinically, ASPH is aberrantly upregulated in HCC and correlates with inferred NK cell-associated ADCC activity and improved survival in CE1-seropositive patients. Collectively, these findings reveal a mechanism by which antiviral humoral immunity confers cancer protection through molecular mimicry and highlight anti-CE1 immunity as a potential therapeutic strategy in HCC.
To describe the clinical features, genetic variants, and management outcomes in ASPH-related ectopia lentis.Seven unrelated individuals (14 eyes) with ASPH-related ectopia lentis underwent detailed ocular, systemic evaluation and genetic analysis by whole-exome sequencing.The mean age at presentation was 22 years. Parental consanguinity was present in three individuals. All patients (100%) had progressive high myopia, ectopia lentis and characteristic facial dysmorphism. Lens subluxation was superior or superonasal in eleven eyes (78%) and posteriorly dislocated in three eyes (22%). Scleral thinning was noted in six eyes (43%), and one eye (7%) had spontaneous filtering bleb. Glaucoma was diagnosed in seven eyes (50%). Lensectomy was performed in eight eyes (57%): five by clear corneal approach and three via pars plana lensectomy (PPL). Postoperative filtering blebs with hypotony developed in two of three eyes that underwent PPL but in none following clear corneal approach. Cardiac abnormalities were detected in five individuals (71%). All individuals had biallelic pathogenic ASPH variants and two were novel.Scleral thinning and filtering blebs frequently occur at the site of lens subluxation and worsened by scleral surgery. Early lensectomy through a clear corneal approach minimizes scleral complications. Progressive cardiovascular involvement necessitates regular systemic monitoring.
ObjectiveGiven the close link between abnormal coagulation function and lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) progression, this study aims to identify coagulation-related biomarkers that influence LUAD prognosis and to validate the biological functions of key genes through in vitro experiments.MethodsWe obtained coagulation-related genes (CRGs) from the TCGA-LUAD and Genecards databases. To identify key CRGs, Cox and lasso analyses were conducted, leading to the establishment of a predictive model for the coagulation risk score (CRRS). The model's predictive accuracy was examined using Kaplan-Meier and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve, followed by external validation to ensure robustness. A nomogram was then created by integrating risk scores with clinical factors, enabling the quantification of survival probabilities for individual patients. Additional analyses examined the relationships between risk scores and functional pathways, tumor immune features, and chemotherapy drug sensitivity. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was performed to validate ASPH expression. Finally, ASPH expression was silenced in A549 and NCI-H1975 cell lines, and the impact on tumor cell behavior was evaluated.ResultsThe model constructed in this article can effectively predict the prognosis of LUAD patients. CRRS is an independent prognostic factor for LUAD, and CRRS was significantly correlated with multiple clinical indicators. Additionally, immune checkpoint expression was meaningfully higher in high-risk patients compared to low-risk patients. IHC analysis revealed an increase in ASPH expression in LUAD specimens. Downregulation of ASPH impairs the malignant biological behavior of LUAD cells.ConclusionThe CRRS model provides reliable prognostic value for LUAD patients. ASPH could function as both a molecular marker and a potential treatment target for patients.
Protein-hydroxylation catalysed by Fe(II) and 2-oxoglutarate (2OG) dependent oxygenases is an important regulatory mechanism in human biology. Such oxygenases typically coordinate their Fe(II) cofactor via a conserved triad of an aspartate- or glutamate- and two histidine-residues. By contrast, aspartate/asparagine β-hydroxylase (AspH), which catalyses asparagine/aspartate-residue oxidation in epidermal growth factor-like domains (EGFDs), has only two histidine-residues (H679, H725), with a water occupying the site normally occupied by an aspartate- or glutamate-residue. We describe mechanistic studies with catalytically active AspH crystals. Turnover studies with single crystals under cryogenic conditions give (3 R)-hydroxylated EGFDs with the product alcohol coordinating Fe(II) trans to H725. Time-resolved serial crystallography of microcrystals using an acoustic droplet ejection system, coupled to X-ray emission analyses, demonstrate turnover within 1.5 s, giving a product complex in which Fe(II) is regenerated. Solution and crystallographic studies with the O2 surrogate nitric oxide imply O2 binds to Fe(II) trans to H725. The additional Fe-chelating water is maintained throughout AspH catalysis and is not directly involved in substrate hydroxylation, because O2 is the sole oxygen source in alcohol products, as shown by 18O labelling studies. The results reveal how AspH accommodates both aspartate- and asparagine-substrates and will assist in efforts targeting AspH for cancer treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41626148 is a review article
BACKGROUND: Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide. Although established biomarkers guide targeted therapy, their utility in prognostic stratification remains limited. In this study, we. METHODS: ASPH mRNA expression across pan-cancers and in LUAD was analyzed using the TIMER and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) databases. Immunohistochemical (IHC) staining was performed on 120 clinical LUAD specimens to validate ASPH protein expression. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis was used to assess the association between ASPH expression and overall survival (OS) as well as progression-free survival (PFS). Univariate and multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression models were applied to evaluate the prognostic value of ASPH. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) and Pearson co-expression analysis were conducted to explore potential molecular mechanisms. RESULTS: ASPH was significantly upregulated in LUAD tissues at both mRNA and protein levels compared with corresponding normal lung tissues (all p < 0.001). High ASPH expression was closely correlated with aggressive clinicopathological features, including larger tumor size, T-stage parameters, lymph node/distant metastasis, and advanced clinical stage (all p < 0.05). Kaplan-Meier analysis showed that high ASPH expression was associated with poorer OS and PFS (both p < 0.001). Multivariate Cox regression confirmed ASPH as an independent prognostic factor for OS (TCGA cohort: HR = 1.01, 95% CI = 1.00–1.01, p = 0.003; clinical cohort: HR = 1.85, 95% CI = 1.03–3.30, p = 0.04) and PFS (clinical cohort: HR = 1.84, 95% CI = 1.08–3.14, p = 0.03). Co-expression analysis revealed ASPH was positively correlated with oncogenes RGS20 (r = 0.547) and MET (r = 0.516). GSEA indicated ASPH-coexpressed genes were enriched in pathways related to cell proliferation (ribosome, DNA replication, cell cycle), immune regulation (granulocyte activation, neutrophil-mediated immunity), and cell adhesion. CONCLUSION: Overexpression of ASPH is significantly associated with poor prognosis and disease progression in LUAD patients, supporting its utility as a complementary prognostic tool and candidate therapeutic target for LUAD.
Background/Objectives: White matter degeneration is a significant and early mediator of cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease (AD), yet the critical pathologic features remain poorly understood, under-detected, and therapeutically untargeted. Herein, we characterize molecular features of white matter glial cells in AD brains and assess the utility of non-invasive approaches for detecting related abnormalities in extracellular vesicles (EVs) isolated from serum (SEV). In addition, results from unfractionated (SEV-T) and O4 sulfatide-selected SEVs were compared to determine whether white matter abnormalities were detected with greater sensitivity in oligodendrocyte-specific SEVs (SEV-O4). Methods: Oligodendrocyte glycoprotein and astrocyte mRNA levels were measured in postmortem human AD and control frontal lobe white matter by RT-PCR. Immunoreactivity to oligodendrocyte glycoproteins, astrocyte structural proteins, neurofilament light chain (NfL), and aspartyl-asparaginyl-β-hydroxylase (ASPH) was measured by ELISA in SEV-T and SEV-O4 from patients with moderate AD or normal aging. Results: AD brain pathology was associated with significantly reduced mRNA expression of multiple oligodendrocyte glycoproteins and increased mRNA expression of astrocytic structural genes. SEV analyses demonstrated significantly increased immunoreactivity to 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3' phosphodiesterase (CNPase), myelin-associated glycoprotein 1 (MAG1), astrocyte proteins, and ASPH, a potent activator of Notch and myelin-regulated homeostatic functions. There were no significant benefits of measuring SEV-O4 compared with SEV-T immunoreactivity. Conclusions: AD is associated with significant molecular abnormalities in oligodendrocyte and astrocyte function in brain tissue. The abnormalities detected in SEVs likely reflect oligodendrocyte injury and degeneration, as well as astrocytic activation. The findings suggest that low-invasive SEV approaches, including the novel analysis of ASPH upregulation, can be used to detect and monitor AD white matter degeneration.
Sensory neurons innervating the heart transmit chemical and mechanical cues to the central nervous system via the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and nodose ganglion (NG). Despite their importance in cardiac pain and cardiovascular reflexes, the molecular and functional properties of heart-specific sensory (HS) neurons remain elusive. Here, DRGHS and NGHS neurons innervating the heart were FACS purified using a retrograde labeling strategy with Di-8-ANEPPQ, then characterized molecularly by bulk RNA sequencing or evaluated functionally in cocultures with neonatal cardiomyocytes. DRGHS and NGHS neurons formed functional connections with neonatal cardiomyocytes as demonstrated by immunolabeling, electron microscopy, and optogenetic manipulation. Functionally coupled DRGHS neurons exhibited enhanced spontaneous and evoked Ca2+ activity in response to optogenetic and chemical stimulation, indicating dynamic neuro-cardiac communication. Global RNA sequencing analysis revealed that DRGHS and NGHS neurons exhibited distinct transcriptomic profiles, including enrichment of transcripts encoding ion channels and G protein-coupled receptors, compared with their respective total populations. In DRGHS tissue, these included Scn10a, P2xr2, and Mrgprd, whereas NGHS neurons preferentially expressed P2xr2, Ptgdr, and Cckar, collectively supporting a combination of molecular signatures including nociceptors. Collectively, these findings define molecularly distinct sensory pathways connecting the heart and the sensory nervous system, providing mechanistic insights and highlighting potential targets for modulation of cardiovascular reflexes and hemostasis.© 2026 The Author(s). Comprehensive Physiology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Physiological Society.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains one of the most lethal malignancies worldwide, and immune evasion is a major determinant of tumor progression and therapeutic resistance. The tumor microenvironment (TME) contains multiple dysfunctional and suppressive immune states, among which regulatory T cells (Tregs) and exhausted T-cell populations are particularly important. Despite recent advances in HCC biology, the intercellular signaling programs associated with these immune states remain incompletely characterized at single-cell resolution. Therefore, this study aimed to reanalyze public single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data to identify candidate interaction networks and immunoregulatory signaling axes associated with T-cell dysfunction in HCC.Publicly available single-cell RNA sequencing data were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database and analyzed in a reanalysis framework focused on immune-cell heterogeneity. Quality control, normalization, dimensionality reduction, and clustering were performed using Seurat-based workflows. Cell-type annotation was conducted primarily through canonical marker gene expression patterns. Differential expression, cell-cell communication analysis, trajectory inference, gene co-expression analysis, and pathway enrichment analysis were used to characterize signaling programs associated with dysfunctional T-cell states, with particular attention to macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) and prostaglandin D2 receptor (PTGDR) signaling.Reanalysis of the single-cell dataset identified major cellular populations including CD8 + T cells, regulatory T cells (Tregs), macrophages, and proliferating cells, highlighting marked heterogeneity within the HCC microenvironment. Three Treg-associated subclusters, designated Treg-C1, Treg-C2, and Treg-C3, showed distinct transcriptional characteristics. Cell-cell communication analysis suggested that MIF signaling through CD74, CXCR4, and CD44 may represent a prominent immunoregulatory communication program linking tumor-associated cell populations with T-cell compartments. PTGDR was enriched in selected immune-cell populations and was associated with gene programs related to cytokine signaling, cell adhesion, and T-cell activation. Trajectory and co-expression analyses further supported the presence of dynamic immune-state transitions and heterogeneous regulatory programs within the analyzed dataset.In conclusion, this single-cell reanalysis delineated interaction patterns among immune-associated cell populations in HCC and highlighted the MIF-CD74/CXCR4/CD44 and PTGDR signaling axes as candidate immunoregulatory programs. These findings refine the interpretation of T-cell dysfunction in the HCC microenvironment and provide a rationale for further mechanistic and translational validation, rather than direct confirmation of therapeutic targets. Clinical Trial Registration This study is not a clinical trial.© 2026. The Author(s).
The prostaglandin D2 receptor (PTGDR) -441 C/T polymorphism has been previously associated with inflammatory diseases such as asthma. The goal of this study was to explore the association of this polymorphism with idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (IIM) and their clinical features. Seventy-two healthy subjects (HS) and forty-eight patients with IIM from Guadalajara and Mexico were recruited over three years. Clinical features and enzymes used for diagnostics and follow-up, such as creatine phosphokinase (CPK), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), aspartate transaminase (AST), and alanine aminotransferase (ALT), were collected at the recruitment point and from the chart at the diagnostic point. PCR-ARMS was used to define genotypes. The Chi-square test was used to compare genotype and allele frequencies and clinical features between IIM patients and healthy subjects. A one-way ANOVA on ranks was performed to compare enzymatic levels. The allele distribution was not in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium in the controls. There was no difference in age or gender distribution between the groups. The polymorphic (T) allele was more common in the IIM group than in the HS group. At the same time, the wild-type (CC) genotype presented more clinical features, such as heliotrope rash, fever, dyspnea, and weight loss, than the TT genotype. No significant differences were found regarding the enzyme levels. To further understand the role of this polymorphism in IIM, a bigger sample size is required along with mechanistical studies. Nevertheless, the polymorphic allele of the PTGDR -441 C/T polymorphism suggests susceptibility to IIM, whereas the wild-type CC genotype is associated with more clinical features.
BACKGROUND: This study aimed to identify prognostic biomarkers for gastric cancer (GC) by analyzing the methylation status of multiple tumor suppressor genes. METHODS: Using the Epi-TOP™ methylation detection system, we analyzed 51 genes in 169 matched tumor and adjacent normal tissue samples. Methylation levels were quantified as Percent Methylated Reference (PMR) in tumor (PMR-T) and normal (PMR-N) tissues; the differential methylation (PMR-D) was also calculated. RESULT: Tumor tissues exhibited significantly higher DNA methylation levels than matched normal tissues across 51 tumor suppressor genes (all p < 0.001). Clustering analysis based on PMR-T identified four epigenetic subtypes associated with known molecular classifications (epithelial–mesenchymal transition (EMT) and microsatellite instability–high (MSI-H)) and overall survival (p = 0.030). In contrast, clustering based on PMR-N showed no significant association with molecular subtypes or survival outcomes, suggesting limited prognostic relevance. Two prognostic gene panels were constructed: one PMR-T–based panel (ALX, BMP3, CDKN2A, MINT25, PTGDR) and another PMR-D-based panel (ADCYAP1, SOCS1, SEPTIN9, CDKN2B). Both panels independently predicted overall survival in multivariate Cox regression. The PMR-D panel demonstrated stronger prognostic performance (hazard ratio (HR) = 0.329, p = 0.002), while the PMR-T panel also demonstrated significant prognostic value (HR = 0.512, p = 0.012), highlighting that tumor methylation profiles alone may provide meaningful survival predictions for patients with GC. CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that tumor-specific DNA methylation changes, particularly when evaluated using multi-gene panels can enhance prognostic stratification in GC. These findings support the potential use of methylation-based biomarkers for personalized management of GC.
Autoinflammatory diseases involve recurrent systemic inflammation caused by dysregulated innate immunity, arising from genetic or multifactorial mechanisms, as seen in periodic fever, aphthous stomatitis, pharyngitis, and adenitis (PFAPA) syndrome. About 10% of PFAPA patients show autosomal dominant inheritance. We describe a three-generation family with a PFAPA-like recurrent fever syndrome displaying clear autosomal dominant transmission. All affected individuals tested negative on a diagnostic panel of 13 known autoinflammatory genes. Whole-exome sequencing was performed in two distantly related affected members, followed by variant filtering, segregation analysis, and phenotype-based prioritization. A single heterozygous missense variant in RXFP1, c.154G>A p.(Asp52Asn), co-segregated with disease in all affected relatives. This variant is extremely rare in population databases, absent from ClinVar, present in COSMIC, and predicted as damaging by REVEL and CADD. RXFP1, not previously implicated in autoinflammatory or innate immune disorders, encodes the relaxin family peptide receptor 1, a G protein-coupled receptor involved in extracellular matrix regulation, anti-fibrotic pathways, and modulation of inflammatory cytokine production. Protein network analysis showed interactions with RLXN1-3, inflammatory mediators, PTGDR, ADORA2B, and C1QTNF8, supporting an immunomodulatory function. This is the first report linking RXFP1 variation to a hereditary recurrent fever syndrome, identifying relaxin signalling as a potential immune regulatory pathway.
Runs of homozygosity (ROH) are continuous stretches of homozygous loci generated from identical haplotypes inherited from a common ancestor. ROH hotspots could be an indicator of footprints from artificial and/or natural selection processes. Here, genomic information of 937 individuals from commercial Saanen herds selected in Brazilian tropical environments was used to characterize the population genetic diversity through a genome-wide assessment of autozygosity and effective population size (Ne), in addition to investigate ROH hotspots for pinpointing genomic regions subjected to selective pressures in Saanen in the tropics. Inbreeding levels are relatively under control in this population, but the Ne estimate above but close to 50 animals would be considered critical for this population to be long-term viable in terms of genetic diversity, demanding extra attention on Ne monitoring by the breeders. Nine ROH hotspots were identified on chromosomes 7, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 18, and 24, harboring genes directly related to production and adaptive traits. This includes genes associated with milk and protein yield and somatic cell count (CSNK1G1, PCLAF, TRIP4, ZNF609, OAZ2, PIF1, PLEKHO2, and PTGDR); reproduction (ZNF609, OAZ2, PTGDR, GJA3, GJB2, and GJB6); adaptation to heat stress (HSPA9, SIL1, CTNNA1, RNF17, ZMYM2, PARP4, and XPO4); immune system response to mastitis and other infections (HCK, BPIFA1, and BPIFB1), among others. The various loci directly related to the genetic control of productive and adaptive traits in goats identified in this study suggest possible footprints from artificial and/or natural selection processes related to adaptability of Saanen to tropical production systems.
The risk of developing melanoma increases with age. Although immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapy has shown considerable success, a significant portion of melanoma patients either fail to respond to ICB or eventually develop resistance. This leads to the urgent need for exploring novel treatments. Phospholipase A2 group IID (PLA2G2D) is an inducible enzyme found in myeloid cells, especially in aging dendritic cells (DCs), that exert an immunosuppressive effect by producing anti- or proinflammatory small lipid molecules, including prostaglandin D2 (PGD2). An aging-related increase of PLA2G2D-PGD2 expression makes this signaling a promising target for treating aging-associated diseases. The overexpression of hematopoietic PGD2 synthase identified in both human and mouse melanoma tissue further highlights the potential of PLA2G2D-PGD2-targeting therapy. In this study, we show that the absence of PLA2G2D or the PGD2 receptor, PTGDR, restricts primary tumor growth and lung metastasis of subcutaneously implanted melanoma, as demonstrated using middle-aged Pla2g2d-/- and Ptgdr-/- mice. These therapeutic benefits are linked to increased tumor infiltration of activated γδ T cells, which can be amplified in B16F10-bearing wild-type mice through the adoptive transfer of Ptgdr-/- DCs. These tumor-restraining effects were also confirmed in DC-specific PTGDR-deficient (zDCcrePtgdrfloxp) mice. Mechanistically, the enhanced production of IL-1β by Ptgdr-/- DCs contributes to the activation and accumulation of γδ T cells in tumor tissue. In summary, our findings highlight the effectiveness of targeting the PLA2G2D-PGD2/PTGDR axis to reprogram aging dendritic cells, thereby inhibiting melanoma progression and presenting a promising therapeutic target, particularly for elderly patients.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Necroptosis plays a critical role in the onset and progression of numerous malignancies, with colorectal cancer (CRC) ranking among the leading causes of cancer-related mortality worldwide. However, the relationship between necroptosis-related genes (NRGs) and CRC remains contentious. Hence, this study aims to develop a novel NRG-based signature to predict the prognosis of CRC patients and explore its potential role.Transcriptome data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases and the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) were employed to identify cancer hallmarks associated with outcomes in CRC. A novel NRG signature was formulated and validated using least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression analysis and COX regression analysis. Subsequently, univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses, Kaplan-Meier (K-M) survival analysis, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves, and nomograms were utilized to assess the predictive capability of our signature. Furthermore, a variety of bioinformatics analysis algorithms were leveraged to uncover potential mechanisms, tumor immune status, and differences in drug sensitivity between the two-risk groups. The expression of signature NRGs in CRC was evaluated through quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR).A novel signature consisting of eighteen NRGs (CTSB, PAEP, ARL4C, TAP2, WFS1, BATF2, DUSP27, CXCL9, EPHB2, IRF8, CXCL13, GZMB, APOL6, NLRC5, CXCL10, IRF1, HES6, and PTGDR) was successfully established. This signature displayed consistent predictive performance and general applicability for CRC, as validated across three independent cohorts. Moreover, stromal and immune cells within the tumor microenvironment (TME) were found to be correlated with necroptosis. Additionally, notable differences in the sensitivity to anti-tumor agents were observed between the two groups. The qRT-PCR results indicated aberrant expression of these signature NRGs in CRC.NRG was proved to be an accurate predictor of CRC prognosis. Furthermore, the novel signature exhibited consistent value and translational potential for predicting prognosis, tumor immunogenicity, and therapeutic response in CRC.Copyright © 2025 Tan, Wang, Chang, Zhang, Deng, Yan, Zhu, Wang, Cai, Liu, Tan and Cui.
Objective: To investigate the transcriptomic signature of refractory nasal polyps (NP) after endoscopic sinus surgery. Methods: Tissue samples were collected from 36 patients with NP who underwent endoscopic sinus surgery at the Seventh Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University and the First Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University from January 2020 to December 2021. Raw sequencing data of normal nasal mucosa samples were downloaded from publicly available GEO database (Accession Number: GSE136825). Differential expression genes (DEGs) and Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis were conducted to analyze the differences between refractory NP and normal controls, as well as among refractory, controlled, and partially controlled NP. Hierarchical clustering method was employed to analyze the inflammatory endotypes of NP. Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) and STRING database were used in combination with Cytoscape software to identify the characteristic transcriptional expression profiles of refractory NP. R software (version 4.3.1) was used for statistical analysis. Results: Refractory NP patients had significantly higher asthma comorbidity rates than controlled/partially controlled groups (P<0.05). The numbers and percentages of peripheral blood and tissue eosinophilic granulocytes were significantly higher in the refractory subgroup than in the other two subgroups (P<0.05). Compared to normal mucosa, controlled and partially controlled NP groups, 27 genes were consistently upregulated in refractory NP. Hierarchical cluster analysis showed that the refractory NP exhibited a mixed endotype dominated by type 2 inflammation with co-existing type 1 features. Differential genes were enriched in extracellular matrix organization, leukocyte activation, cytokine receptor activation, cystatin-mediated protease inhibition, granule exocytosis, and olfactory nerve development regulation. Further WGCNA analysis and protein-protein interaction network identified 33 hub genes represented by ITGAM, NCF1, NCF2, CD1C, PTAFR, CLEC10A, SIRPA, TREM2, ALOX5AP, PTGDR2 (officially PTGDR), F13A1, DUOX2, NOS2, CTSG, and SALL1. Conclusion: This study reveals the distinctive transcriptional signature of refractory NP through transcriptomic methods, providing novel research avenues and therapeutic targets for the treatment of refractory NP after surgery.
Sepsis-induced liver injury (SILI) significantly contributes to mortality, yet its underlying immune mechanisms remain poorly understood. This study aimed to identify key immune-related genes (IRGs) driving T cell-mediated responses in SILI and evaluate their diagnostic potential.Cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) was performed to establish a murine sepsis model (n=7/group), with sham-operated controls. Serum IL-1β and lactate levels were quantified via ELISA. Public transcriptomic datasets (GSE26440, GSE26378, GSE25504, GSE28750; 180 sepsis vs 53 controls) were analyzed to identify differentially expressed IRGs (DEIRGs). Functional enrichment (GO/KEGG), protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks, and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) were integrated to prioritize T cell-associated genes. Flow cytometry assessed immune cell subsets (CD3+ T cells, CD19+ B cells, NK1.1+ NK cells, F4/80+ macrophages) in murine blood. Liver histopathology (HE staining) and cytokine expression (IL-1β/TNF-α; IHC) were evaluated.CLP mice exhibited elevated IL-1β (P<0.01) and lactate (P<0.01), confirming metabolic dysfunction and inflammation. Bioinformatics analysis identified 19 DEIRGs, with PPI networks implicating immune regulation (PPI enrichment p=3.35×10-6). Flow cytometry confirmed T cell dominance (65.87% vs 63.85% in controls). scRNA-seq revealed four T cell-linked hub genes (FCER1G, IL2RB, PTGDR, XCL1). Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis demonstrated that these genes form a synergistic regulatory network involving NF-κB, JAK-STAT, and other key pathways, with notable features including the IL2RB-XCL1 positive feedback loop and the opposing effects of PTGDR isoforms (DP1/DP2). Histopathology showed hepatic necrosis and inflammatory infiltration, correlating with upregulated IL-1β/TNF-α (IHC, P<0.05).FCER1G, IL2RB, PTGDR, and XCL1 are novel T cell-related biomarkers of SILI, offering potential therapeutic targets. The study bridges bioinformatics predictions with experimental validation, advancing understanding of immune dysregulation in sepsis.© 2025 Hong et al.
A positive effect of sleeve gastrectomy on the structural and functional characteristics of the left ventricular myocardium in rats with normal body weight and post-infarction CHF was demonstrated. Sleeve gastrectomy attenuated the upregulated myocardial expression of the Trpc6 and Tgfb1 genes involved in the pathogenesis of myocardial infarction. These findings attest to a reduction of the negative effects of post-infarction cardiac remodeling.© 2026. Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
The transient receptor potential (TRP) channels are a group of nonselective cation channels, which play critical roles in a variety of physiological processes and are also involved in the development of various carcinomas. However, the presence of TRP channels and their role in human benign salivary gland tumors has not been investigated yet.We assessed the mRNA expression of the TRP channels TRPA1, TRPC3, TRPC6, TRPM4, TRPM8 as well as the channel associated factors TCAF1 and TCAF2 in human specimens of pleomorphic adenoma (PA, n = 10) and Warthin tumors (WT, n = 10) of the parotid gland. The control group consisted of 5 healthy human parotid gland (PG) specimens. The analysis has been performed using qRT-PCR.The mRNAs of TRPM4, TRPC6, TCAF1 and TCAF2 were found in normal parotid gland tissue and even more pronounced in PA and WT. However, no mRNA of TRPA1, TRPC3 and TRPM8 could be detected in normal parotid tissue nor in WT. In contrast, TPRC3 and TRPM8 mRNA were detected in PA. In 4 out of 10 PA high mRNA expression levels were found for these two genes.Our current pilot study suggests that TRPM4, TRPC6, TCAF1 and TCAF2 are expressed in normal parotid gland tissue and partially elevated in PA as well as WT of the parotid gland. TRPC3 and TRPM8 seem to be restricted to PA and may be highly expressed in a subgroup of parotid gland PA. These findings are important for a better understanding of PA biology.© 2026 The Authors.
Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a lethal stroke subtype characterized by secondary injury resulting from pathological intracellular Ca2+ signaling. Bioactive molecules such as ATP and thrombin activate multiple receptor subtypes. Thus, targeting a common downstream molecular mechanism may be more effective than inhibiting individual receptors. One potential candidate is transient receptor potential canonical 3 (TRPC3), a Ca2+-permeable nonselective cation channel activated via Gq/phospholipase C signaling. However, its role in ICH remains unclear. Thus, this study aimed to investigate the role of TRPC3 in neurological dysfunction after ICH by using TRPC3 knockout (KO) mice and astrocyte-specific knockdown approaches. The TRPC3-KO mice exhibited significantly lower neurological deficit scores and performed better on the rotarod test than the wild-type mice at 1 and 3 d after ICH, suggesting that TRPC3 plays a critical role in functional impairment. However, the astrocyte-specific knockdown of TRPC3 using an adeno-associated virus vector did not significantly improve neurological dysfunction. These results indicate that TRPC3 contributes to neurological dysfunction after ICH, but that its pathological role cannot be explained by astrocytic TRPC3 alone, indicating the involvement of multiple cell types. In conclusion, TRPC3 is a key channel involved in neurological dysfunction after ICH, suggesting that targeting TRPC3 may provide a new therapeutic strategy for attenuation of neurological dysfunction after ICH.
Calcium dysregulation is increasingly recognized as a convergent mechanism underlying neuronal vulnerability and glial overactivation in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Transient Receptor Potential Canonical (TRPC) channels are potential key modulators of Ca2+ signaling in multiple cell types in central nervous system (CNS), mediating different pathophysiological roles. However, their cell type-specific remodeling and cellular origins of these changes in human AD tissue remain poorly defined. This study investigated their expression patterns with main focus on the two closely related members of TRPC3 and TRPC6 across human AD brains and two relevant mouse models. Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded cortical and hippocampal tissues from AD patients and age-matched controls were examined using immunohistochemistry. Spatial relationships between TRPC3/TRPC6 and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive astrocytes were assessed in adjacent serial sections. TRPC3 expression was markedly increased in AD cortex and hippocampus whereas TRPC6 was significantly reduced primarily in pyramidal neurons. TRPC3-positive regions showed close spatial correspondence with reactive astrocytes, particularly in the hippocampal and subcortical white matter regions, suggesting a partial astrocytic origin. TRPC6 exhibited negligible overlap with GFAP. These observations were reproduced in brain sections of both 5xFAD and PS19 transgenic (Tg) mice compared to their littermate controls. Our findings reveal a conserved pattern of divergent TRPC remodeling across human and mouse models with AD pathology. In addition, TRPC1 expression was significantly reduced in AD samples while TRPC4 and TRPC5 had no significant change in expression. Taken together, selected TRPC family members may undergo differential remodeling during AD pathogenesis, with TRPC3 and TRPC6 showing the most prominent and consistent alterations.© 2026 The Author(s). Brain Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of International Society of Neuropathology.
Obesity drives atrial fibrillation and ventricular arrhythmias, yet whether direct fat-heart communication mediates this risk is unknown. The authors demonstrate that human atrial myocytes from obese individuals exhibit prolonged action potential duration, a pro-arrhythmic phenotype reproduced by treating induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes with visceral adipose tissue-derived extracellular vesicles (VAT EVs) from obese donors. VAT EVs also impaired calcium handling, activated cardiac fibroblasts, and shifted macrophages toward a pro-inflammatory activation state-collectively promoting an arrhythmogenic substrate. Using a transgenic adipose-specific EV-tracking mouse model, the authors confirmed preferential adipose-to-myocardial EV trafficking in obese vs lean mice in vivo. Transcriptome-wide association studies anchored on VAT EV-induced gene expression changes identified causal links to QT interval and atrial fibrillation in large genome-wide association studies. Pharmacologic inhibition of TRPC3, an ion channel upregulated by VAT EVs, restored action potential duration toward normal, identifying a novel therapeutic target in obesity-associated arrhythmia.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Transient receptor potential canonical 3 (TRPC3) is a paradigm of primary lipid-gated ion channels. TRPC3 activity is controlled via regulatory lipid-channel interactions involving multiple lipid coordination sites. Sterols are coordinated as non-annular lipids within TRPC3 channels, while their functional impact is still elusive. Here we utilized a new photoswitchable cholesterol derivative (OptoChol-1) and computational analysis to explore the regulatory impact of sterols on TRPC3. Molecular modeling of OptoChol-1 binding to the L1 lipid coordination site identified a cysteine (C350) as pivotal for sterol coordination and a methionine (M586) as critical for control of TRPC3 activity by photoisomerization of OptoChol-1. The predicted roles of these residues were confirmed by site-directed mutagenesis and electrophysiology. Importantly, our experiments demonstrate that OptoChol-1-induced modulation of channel function is dependent on the structure of activating diacylglycerols (DAGs) bound to the L2 regulatory site. Bond-to-bond propensity analysis supported the concept of allosteric communication between the sterol-occupied L1 site and the DAG-sensing L2 domain. In aggregate, we introduce a photochromic sterol (OptoChol-1) as a valuable molecular probe for ion channel-sterol interactions. We suggest OptoChol-1 governs TRPC3 function by operating within a critical hub of multimodal lipid sensing.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
The carotid body is important in cardiovascular (patho)physiology as well as Canonical Transient Receptor Potential channel 3 and 6 (TRPC3, TRPC6). However, TRPC3 and TRPC6 were found in the rodent carotid body, whereas their distribution in the human carotid body has yet to be described. Thus, the present exploratory study aims to describe the protein distribution of TRPC3 and TRPC6 in the elderly.The carotid body of six body donors (median age 86.5 years; 1 male, 5 female) was assessed. Hematoxylin-eosin and Movat-Pentachrome staining were applied. TRPC3 and TRPC6 were immunohistochemically labelled. If further serial sections were available, a group of differentiation 34, neurofilament, and tyrosine hydroxylase were immunohistochemically labelled to allow further morphological assessment. The immunoreactivity of TRPC3 and TRPC6 was semiquantitatively described and measured using a densitometric approach. A histomorphological assessment describing the degeneration of the carotid body and a histomorphometrical assessment that approximates the dimension of this organ served as a morphological background for the immunohistochemical analysis.In all samples, immunoreactivity was observed primarily in the chief cells and endothelial cells. The sustentacular cells showed a less intense signal. Two body donors exhibited severe atherosclerotic degeneration and fibrosis.The findings could be a hint that TRPC3 and TRPC6 are part of a response to carotid body hypoperfusion and fibrosis. Due to the small sample size and the utilisation of elderly and multimorbid body donors, more studies are needed to differentiate between age-associated and disease-related alterations in the expression and distribution of TRPC3 and TRPC6 in the carotid body.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Intervertebral disc degeneration (IDD) is the primary cause of lower back pain. Transient receptor potential canonical 3 (TRPC3) is a nonselective cation channel permeable to Ca2+.This study explores the mechanisms by which the TRPC3-mediated Ca2+/nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) pathway regulates autophagy in IDD.An IDD rat model was established using the annulus fibrosus puncture method and was treated with local intraspinal injection of adeno-associated virus (AAV)-shRNA targeting TRPC3. Primary human nucleus pulposus cells (NPCs) were transfected with TRPC3 siRNA and subsequently treated with pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC; an NF-κB inhibitor), rapamycin (RAPA), or 3-methyladenine (3-MA), respectively. Micro-computed tomography (micro-CT), hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining, immunohistochemistry, western blotting, transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and flow cytometry were performed.TRPC3 expression was significantly increased in IDD rats (p < 0.05). TRPC3 shRNA ameliorated histopathological damage in IDD rats and promoted the expression of autophagy-related protein 5 (ATG5), Beclin-1, and LC3-II (all p < 0.05). In vitro, interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β) increased Ca2+ levels, siRNA TRPC3 reduced them, and PDTC further decreased them (p < 0.05). In addition, siRNA TRPC3 increased the expression of ATG5, Beclin-1, and the LC3-II/LC3-I ratio and inhibited phosphorylation of p-NF-κB p65 in NPCs (p < 0.05). Transmission electron microscopy and flow cytometry showed that siRNA TRPC3-induced autophagy promoted apoptosis in NPCs (p < 0.05). Furthermore, siRNA TRPC3 increased the levels of aggrecan and collagen II and decreased matrix metalloproteinase-13 (MMP-13) expression (p < 0.05).TRPC3 exacerbates IDD by inhibiting protective autophagy via activation of the Ca2+/NF-κB signaling pathway. Knockdown of TRPC3 promotes autophagy, which in turn influences NPC apoptosis and extracellular matrix (ECM) metabolism. This study offers potential novel strategies for IDD prevention and treatment.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42068376 is a review article
The hypothalamus regulates anterior pituitary (AP) hormone release via the hypophyseal portal system by secreting specific releasing and inhibiting peptide hormones. Growth hormone (GH) secretion from pituitary somatotrophs (PS) is regulated by a cholinergic mechanism that induces calcium (Ca2+) signaling, which in turn triggers vesicular exocytosis and GH release. Given that the transient receptor potential canonical channel 3 (TRPC3) regulates vesicle exocytosis in endocrine and neuroendocrine cells, we investigated its role in GH release from somatotrophs and whether GH release could support neuronal growth in the hypothalamus. Activation of TRPC3 by the diacylglycerol analog, 1-oleoyl-2-acetyl-sn-glycerol (OAG), resulted in a rapid increase in intracellular Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) in wild type (WT) PS, attenuated by the TRPC3 inhibitor Pyr10, or by the knockout of TRPC3. ELISA assay confirmed that OAG exposure triggered GH release in WT PS. Conditioned media from OAG-stimulated PS promoted significant neurite outgrowth in hypothalamic neuronal cultures, suggesting a role for released GH in this process. Exposure of PS to H2O2-induced oxidative damage enhanced store-operated Ca2+ entry (SOCE) compared to control cells. Electrophysiological characterization revealed that somatotrophs under increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) conditions exhibited elevated SOCE, whereas cells under more native conditions exhibited receptor-operated Ca2+ entry. Furthermore, media from oxidative-stressed PS cultures, followed by the OAG exposure, induced neurite outgrowth, suggesting TRPC3 activation may provide an alternative pathway after ROS-induced damage in GH release. These findings indicate that Ca2+ signaling activation may promote GH secretion from control and ROS-induced AP cells, potentially leading to neurite outgrowth in hypothalamic cells. This study may provide insights into restoring neuronal connectivity following brain injury.
CACNA1C variants have been identified in cardiac arrhythmias and developmental disorders (DD). Here, we aimed to explore the association between CACNA1C and epilepsy and the mechanism underlying phenotypic heterogeneity.Trio-based whole-exome sequencing was performed in patients with focal epilepsy. Genes with recurrently identified variants were selected for further studies.Three de novo CACNA1C variants were identified in three patients with focal epilepsy. All variants presented no minor allele frequency in the Genome Aggregation Database, which was significantly lower than that of benign variants in the ClinVar database. The three de novo variants were evaluated as pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants according to the updated American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) classification. Two patients experienced infrequent seizures and became seizure free. The other patient had refractory epilepsy with DD and arrhythmia. Previously, 138 CACNA1C variants were reported to be associated with arrhythmias, of which 39 were classified as pathogenic or likely pathogenic; 30 variants were associated with DD, 19 of which were classified as pathogenic or likely pathogenic according to the updated ACMG classification. Further analysis indicated that null variants were more common in DD than in epilepsy (p=1.39×10-3) and arrhythmias (p=6.31×10-7). The epilepsy-associated variants were predominantly located in the voltage sensor region (p=9.03×10-3), whereas the arrhythmia-associated variants were mostly located in the linker region (p=2.13×10-4). There was a greater percentage of de novo variants in patients with epilepsy and DD than in those with arrhythmias (p=6.02×10-3; p=2.47×10-2).CACNA1C is potentially a candidate causative gene of focal epilepsy. The genotype-phenotype correlation of CACNA1C helps explain phenotypic heterogeneity.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Vasculogenic mimicry (VM) predicts poor prognosis in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Hypoxia is a critical tumor microenvironmental regulator, yet its detailed mechanism linking to VM formation remains poorly defined. This study aimed to elucidate the role of hypoxic endothelial cells in promoting NSCLC aggressiveness and VM formation. We integrated clinical data analysis, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), transcriptomic profiling, and multiple in vitro and in vivo functional validations to consolidate our findings. Clinical NSCLC data revealed a positive correlation between endothelial expression of the hypoxia marker carbonic anhydrase IX (CA9) and VM activity. Conditioned medium from hypoxic HUVECs promoted NSCLC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, stemness, and VM network formation in vitro. Endothelial HIF-1α overexpression accelerated tumor growth and VM in vivo. Transcriptomics screening pinpointed the calcium channel gene Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 3 (ITPR3) as the core downstream effector in this hypoxic endothelial paracrine signaling. Follow-up mechanistic assays revealed that hypoxic endothelial supernatant and the ITPR3 inhibitor 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate (2-APB) activated calcium/endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress signaling to promote malignant phenotypes in NSCLC, and these effects were further validated by ITPR3 knockdown. In conclusion, hypoxia-activated endothelial cells drive NSCLC aggressiveness and VM through a paracrine axis involving ITPR3-mediated ER calcium activation. This HIF-1α/ITPR3 axis represents a potential therapeutic target for disrupting the tumor-vascular niche in NSCLC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Calcium channel blockers (CCBs) show notable interindividual variability in antihypertensive response. This study evaluated the association of a pharmacogenomics (PGx)-guided antihypertensive strategy incorporating CACNA1C rs2238032 and CYP3A5 rs776746 with short-term blood pressure (BP) outcomes among Chinese patients with hypertension receiving CCB-containing regimens.This secondary exploratory analysis included patients receiving CCB-containing regimens from two previously completed multicenter randomized cohorts conducted in Hunan and Fujian provinces, China. The Hunan cohort assessed a 4-week PGx-guided strategy combined with structured management, while the Fujian cohort evaluated genotype-guided treatment during 4-8 weeks after an initial standardized management phase. The primary endpoint was BP control at the last follow-up; secondary endpoints included changes in systolic BP (SBP) and diastolic BP (DBP), medication use, and short-term safety outcomes. Multivariable regression models were used to adjust for prespecified clinical covariates.A total of 4608 patients in Hunan and 418 patients in Fujian were included. In the Hunan cohort, the genotype-guided group had higher 4‑week BP control (81.83% vs 25.07%; adjusted OR = 14.56, P < 0.001) and greater SBP/DBP decreases. In the Fujian cohort, genotype-guided therapy was associated with higher 8‑week BP control (81.74% vs 77.39%; adjusted OR = 2.43, P = 0.003) and greater DBP decrease. Associations were stronger among patients whose BP remained uncontrolled after standardized management. No short-term safety concerns were identified.A genotype-guided antihypertensive strategy incorporating CCB-related PGx information, including CACNA1C rs2238032 and CYP3A5 rs776746, was associated with improved short-term BP control among Chinese patients with hypertension receiving CCB-containing regimens, without an apparent short-term safety disadvantage. However, these findings should be interpreted as exploratory associations rather than proof of causal benefit. Further prospective randomized studies are needed to confirm these findings.© 2026 Deng et al.
CACNA1C-related disorder (CRD), a severe multisystem disorder caused by variants of CACNA1C gene, presents significant diagnostic and management challenges due to its rarity and variable expressivity. This study leverages a detailed longitudinal case report and comprehensive literature review to expand the phenotypic spectrum of CRD with Timothy syndrome (TS) features associated with the CACNA1C NM_001129830.1: c.3061 T > C (p.Cys1021Arg) variant. We describe an individual with CRD exhibiting a severe multisystem phenotype including classic features like syndactyly, profound neurological symptoms, and cardiac arrhythmias. Critically, our detailed clinical and genetic analysis identified previously undocumented features for this specific variant: cerebral infarction, as well as a combined T-cell and B-cell immunodeficiency characterized by specific lymphocyte dysregulation. These novel findings necessitate refined diagnostic protocols and tailored management strategies. By redefining CRD with TS features as a profoundly multisystem disorder, this expanded understanding facilitates improved prognostication, genetic counseling, and targeted therapeutic interventions, aiming to transform management from unpredictable complications into predictable, preventable components, ultimately enhancing quality of life and survival.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42516635 is a review article
Mood and psychotic disorders are associated with disrupted circadian rhythms in sleep and activity. While mood and psychosis risk-associated genes (MPRGs) have been linked with sleep and circadian phenotypes, their contributions to molecular clock pathways and cellular circadian rhythms remain unknown.To understand how MPRGs affect temporal dynamics and contribute to circadian rhythms in transcription across the genome, we knocked down expression of ARNTL, ANK3, CACNA1C, or TCF4 in human iPSC-derived neuronal precursor cells (NPCs) from healthy donors. Gene expression was examined serially over 24 h using whole-transcriptome RNA sequencing. Rhythm and pathway analyses were performed to identify rhythmic genes, and gene sets impacted by MPRG knockdown using small interfering RNA (siRNA).Each siRNA distinctly altered phase and/or amplitude of rhythmic genes. Knockdown of ARNTL resulted in widespread loss of rhythms in core clock and other genes but also caused unexpected gains in rhythm. CACNA1C knockdown increased the number of rhythmic genes. ANK3 and TCF4 knockdown had modest effects on gain/loss of rhythm, but caused significant phase shifts. Functional analyses revealed widespread changes in rhythmic genes previously implicated in mood and psychotic disorders, including synaptic transmission, cellular stress response, and gated ion channels.Our findings are the first to indicate MPRGs contribute widely to neuronal circadian rhythms across the transcriptome. Altered rhythms may disrupt biological pathways implicated across a range of psychiatric disorders.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Genotype-first screening compares patient genomes to a standard reference. The GRCh38 linear assembly contains reference minor alleles (RMAs), posing a critical structural vulnerability for automated clinical variant classification. To determine whether RMAs systematically generate false-positive annotations, we conducted an observational case series of 20 healthy adults undergoing preventive genome sequencing. Automated bioinformatic processing was performed using the GRCh38 linear reference to identify "high-impact" variant annotations generated at loci where GRCh38 differs from the population consensus major allele. Among all 20 participants (100%), linear alignment to GRCh38 systematically misclassified functional major alleles as false-positive "high-impact" annotations at three distinct loci (SLC37A4, CIMIP2A, and GPR33). These artifacts occurred solely because analysis software mathematically defined the healthy wild-type state as a deviation from the rare RMA. Cross-referencing with gnomAD confirmed these as population-dominant benign alleles. Furthermore, this inherent reference bias introduces a theoretical risk of false-negative classifications if RMAs mathematically mask true pathogenic variants. Automated pipelines using linear references systematically misclassify healthy alleles as high-impact functional annotations. While downstream population-frequency filters manage false-positive artifacts, this retrospective patching creates an unsustainable bottleneck for population-scale screening. Transitioning to graph-based pangenome references represents a highly promising approach to directly resolve these diagnostic vulnerabilities at the alignment level, though computational and standardization challenges must first be addressed to ensure the accuracy of large-scale aging research.© 2026. The Author(s).
Membranous nephropathy (MN), a leading cause of nephrotic syndrome, is associated with hypercoagulability and an increased risk of thromboembolic events; however, the relationship between coagulation-related alterations and the immune microenvironment remains incompletely understood. In this study, microarray datasets (GSE73953 and GSE140713) and single-cell RNA sequencing data (GSE233275) were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO), and a broad set of coagulation-related genes was retrieved from GeneCards. Differentially expressed coagulation-related genes (DECGs) between peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from MN patients and healthy controls were identified. Functional enrichment and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analyses were performed, and candidate hub genes were prioritized using multiple topological algorithms. Single-cell RNA sequencing data were analyzed exploratorily to evaluate the cellular distribution and disease-associated expression patterns of hub genes across immune cell populations. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were used to assess the apparent discriminatory performance of hub genes between MN and healthy control PBMC samples in an exploratory manner. Immune cell infiltration was estimated using CIBERSORTx, and correlations between hub genes, immune cell subsets, and coagulation-related genes were evaluated. In addition, glomerular proteomics data from PXD054062 were independently analyzed to explore potential links between systemic PBMC alterations and the local renal microenvironment. A total of 413 DECGs were identified, and five hub genes (CCL5, CYBB, C3AR1, JUN, and TIMP1) were prioritized. Among them, C3AR1 was closely associated with monocyte-related signatures and was positively correlated with the coagulation-related gene F2R. Glomerular proteomics analysis indicated enrichment of complement- and coagulation cascade-related proteins in MN samples, suggesting that local complement-related alterations may coexist with procoagulant or thrombo-inflammatory features in the kidney. Taken together, this study proposes a hypothesis-driven model in which C3a/C3AR1-related monocyte activation and F2R/PAR-1 expression may be interrelated with procoagulant and inflammatory features in MN. This model remains exploratory and requires direct validation in patient samples and mechanistic experiments. These findings may help generate testable hypotheses for future studies on MN-associated hypercoagulability.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565580 is a review article
Mucosal chemokines (eg, CCL25, CCL28, CXCL14, and CXCL17) play key roles in protecting mucosal surfaces against invading infectious pathogens. However, their specific contributions to protection against genital herpes remain to be fully elucidated. Here, we investigated the role of CXCL14 as a mediator of mucosal immunity against genital HSV-2 infection and disease.CXCL14 expression was analyzed in HSV-specific CD8+ T cells from HSV-2-infected asymptomatic and symptomatic women, in primary human vaginal epithelial cells, and in a murine genital HSV-2 infection model. CXCL14(-/-) deficient mice and wild-type (WT) mice were compared for genital disease severity, vaginal viral loads, survival, immune cell recruitment, and T-cell effector function following intravaginal HSV-2 infection. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays were performed to identify transcription factors binding to the CXCL14 promoter after HSV-2 infection.CXCL14 was homeostatically expressed at the genital tract mucosal surface, and HSV-specific CD8+ T cells from HSV-2-infected asymptomatic women expressed significantly higher levels of CXCL14 than those from symptomatic women. HSV-2 infection rapidly induced CXCL14 transcription and production in primary human vaginal epithelial cells and in murine vaginal mucocutaneous tissue. CXCL14(-/-) mice developed more severe genital lesions, higher vaginal viral loads, and lower survival compared to WT mice. In addition, CXCL14 deficiency impaired the recruitment of natural killer (NK) cells, neutrophils, and CD44+CD62L- effector memory CD4+ and CD8+ T cells to the infected vaginal mucosa. It reduced T cell effector functions, including production of IFN-γ, TNF-α, and Granzyme B. Mechanistically, NF-κB and OCT-1 transcription factors bound to the CXCL14 promoter within hours of HSV-2 infection.Our findings demonstrate that NF-κB- and OCT-1-driven CXCL14 expression is crucial for orchestrating early innate and T-cell responses that protect against genital HSV-2 infection and disease. These results suggest that CXCL14 is an important immunoregulatory chemokine triggered early after epithelial viral infection, facilitating the induction of effective mucosal protective immunity against genital herpes.© Pathogens and Immunity 2026.
Fertilization and early-cleavage failure are the major causes of assisted reproductive technology failure, but genotype-guided care is underused. We conducted whole-exome sequencing with Sanger confirmation in 20 men from couples with unexplained fertilization and cleavage failure after in vitro fertilization or intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). Then, further sperm transmission electron microscopy, immunofluorescence, and, where appropriate, embryo quantitative parental contamination test (qPCT) and kinship analysis were integrated in selected cases. Six novel variants were found in four families: two each in dynein axonemal heavy chain 10 ( DNAH10 ) and dynein axonemal heavy chain 12 ( DNAH12 ) and one in cilia and flagella associated protein 47 ( CFAP47 ) and phospholipase C zeta 1 ( PLCZ1 ), respectively. DNAH10/DNAH12 variants segregated with multiple morphological abnormalities of the sperm flagella and showed "9+2" axonemal disruption and reduced dynein signals. Hemizygous CFAP47 c.8006C>T is associated with cleavage failure and altered PLCZ1 localization. Homozygous PLCZ1 c.589C>T in a consanguineous pedigree coincided with multinuclear (≥3 pronuclei) zygotes, and qPCT/kinship indicated excess paternal contribution, consistent with suspected polyspermy in multinuclear zygotes. Management-matched genotype: ICSI restored fertilization in DNAH10/DNAH12 deficiency, whereas ICSI plus assisted oocyte activation (AOA) improved cleavage and yielded ongoing pregnancies in CFAP47/PLCZ1 deficiency. These findings outline potentially actionable clinical strategies-ICSI for axonemal dynein defects and ICSI plus AOA for activation pathway defects-and support targeted genetic testing plus embryo qPCT/kinship in selected cases.Copyright ©The Author(s)(2026).
Actin-like protein 7A (ACTL7A) has been suggested to participate in sperm head formation and oocyte activation. This study investigates the expression and localization of ACTL7A in men with globozoospermia and explores its association with sperm chromatin integrity. Semen samples were collected from 10 infertile men diagnosed with 100% globozoospermia and carrying a DPY19L2 deletion, alongside samples from 10 fertile controls. Sperm analysis was conducted according to WHO-2021 guidelines. Sperm DNA fragmentation was assessed using flow cytometry (SCSA), histone retention via aniline blue staining, and chromatin structure through toluidine blue staining. Compared to fertile controls, globozoospermic men showed significantly reduced sperm motility and increased morphological abnormalities. Chromatin analysis revealed elevated DNA fragmentation and impaired chromatin packaging. Additionally, ACTL7A protein expression was markedly reduced in globozoospermic individuals. Localization studies indicated decreased ACTL7A presence in the equatorial segment and aberrant overexpression in the neck region. These findings suggest that altered ACTL7A expression and localization may be associated with abnormalities in sperm structure and function. Its reduced expression and mislocalization may be associated with globozoospermia and male infertility. Given the success of intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) combined with artificial oocyte activation (ICSI-AOA) in treating PLCZ1-deficient infertility, this approach may also be considered in similar clinical contexts, although further studies are required.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society for Reproductive Investigation.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a genetically complex neurodevelopmental condition with a high heritability. However, genomic studies of ASD have been underrepresented in East Asian populations, and the molecular yield in ASD cohorts remains modest. Here, we present a whole-genome sequencing analysis of 3109 samples across 1033 Chinese ASD families. By examining a wide spectrum of genetic variation, we identified rare ASD-associated variants in 19.2% of affected individuals, providing a population-specific view of the genetic architecture of ASD. We identify significant enrichment of de novo variants in probands, nominate or strengthen candidate risk genes (e.g., NCL, SPPL3, ADGRB1, SLC9A3, KIF1B) through mutational burden, evolutionary constraint, recurrent missense site, and functional assays, and implicate convergent pathways including protein palmitoylation. By integrating over 40,000 ASD cases across unpublished and published global cohorts, we identify 245 ASD risk genes, including 45 with limited prior evidence and 32 with no prior association. Single-cell transcriptomic profiling of the developing human cortex reveals that ASD risk genes exhibit widespread yet heterogeneous expression across all major cell types, with peak expression in excitatory neurons, particularly intratelencephalic neurons, and enriched expression in microglia (e.g., C1QC, CARD11, SNX13, MEF2C, FOXP2, TCF12, MED13L), suggesting convergent involvement of both synaptic and neuroimmune mechanisms. Together, our findings expand the ASD genetic landscape and suggest convergent pathogenic axes involving transcriptional regulation, synaptic signaling and plasticity, and neuroimmune interactions. This work supports the development of inclusive diagnostic strategies and provides a foundation for mechanistic and intervention exploration in ASD.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42446416
Skipped: PubMed ID 42442769 is a review article
Thermal adaptation in animals can manifest in multiple dimensions, yet few studies have integrated behavioral, physiological, and molecular perspectives to gain a comprehensive understanding. In this study, we examined the thermal adaptation of the widely distributed Asiatic toad (Bufo gargarizans) across different climatic regions by comparing populations from northern and southern China. Our behavioral experiments demonstrate that southern populations prefer warmer conditions, while northern populations prefer cooler conditions. At the same ambient temperature, southern populations exhibit relatively higher metabolic rates. Transcriptomic and gene sequencing analyses revealed that among several temperature-sensitive receptor genes, TRPM4 shows the most pronounced genetic differentiation between northern and southern populations. Electrophysiological assays of TRPM4 function further indicated that the southern population exhibits marked sensitivity to moderately high temperatures (23°C and 35°C), whereas the northern population appears to have lost sensitivity to these temperatures. Furthermore, our correlation analyses revealed that the evolutionary divergence in behavior, physiology, and molecular characteristics between the northern and southern populations is closely linked to their local climatic temperatures. Ancestral sequence reconstruction showed that the temperature sensitivity of the gene TRPM4 in the ancestral B. gargarizans is most similar to that of the Chengdu population, suggesting a possible southwestern origin of B. gargarizans, followed by northward range expansion. Together, our integrative findings reveal a clear evolutionary divergence in thermal adaptation between northern and southern populations. Additionally, our study proposes a molecular phyloecological method for reconstructing ancestral geographic distributions using temperature receptor genes as valuable molecular markers.© 2026 The Author(s). Integrative Zoology published by International Society of Zoological Sciences, Institute of Zoology/Chinese Academy of Sciences and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Methimazole (MZL) is a widely prescribed antithyroid medication that has additionally been associated with unintended toxic effects involving organs outside its primary therapeutic site. The current work was conducted to investigate the progressive cardiac pathological alterations elicited by escalating dose levels of MZL. A total of 36 healthy (adult male albino rats) of comparable age and body weight were selected for the study after veterinary examination confirmed their suitability for experimental use. Selected animals were randomly distributed among the four experimental groups with each group having nine rats. Group I was designated as control group. Group II, III and IV were gavaged with MZL at a dose level of 60, 100 and 250 mg/kg/day body weight, respectively, continuously for 28 days. MZL treatment significantly and dose-dependently altered the expressions of MST1, LATS1, YAP1 and TEAD1. The genes for calcium-handling proteins were highly affected with a reduction in SERCA2a and RyR2 and an increase in PLN and NCX1 throughout the dose-escalation regimen of MZL. MZL intoxication significantly augmented ROS and MDA levels whereas suppressed SOD, CAT, GPx, GST, GSR, HO-1 and GSH. Echocardiographic evaluation showed cardiac remodeling, ventricular dilation, myocardial hypertrophy, and poor cardiac performance. There were significantly high level of cardiac biomarkers such as CK-MB, troponin-I, CPK, LDH, BNP, troponin-T, and NT-proBNP, signifying myocardial injury and ventricular dysfunction. Besides, MZL significantly worsened cardiac inflammation by elevating the expression of TNF-α, NF-κB, IL-6, IL-1β, and COX-2 and cardiac apoptosis by increasing caspase-3, Bax, & caspase-9, but diminishing Bcl-2. Histopathological examination showed myocardial degeneration, necrosis, edema, and inflammatory infiltration and structural disorganization in direct proportion to the administered dose. These findings showed severe myocardial toxicity following MZL intoxication throughout the investigated dose range thereby demonstrating its cardiotoxic manifestations.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42550283 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42547671 is a review article
This study aimed to investigate the effects of Zhenwu Decoction(ZWT) on cardiac fibrosis in mice with heart-kidney Yang deficiency-induced chronic heart failure(CHF). The research further explored the therapeutic mechanisms of ZWT in CHF treatment in the hope of providing novel insights for TCM approaches to managing heart-kidney Yang deficiency-induced heart failure. Sixty C57BL/6 mice were randomly divided into the following groups: the control group(normal untreated mice),the DOX group(doxorubicin-induced CHF model),the low-dose ZWT group(ZWT-L,4.7 g·kg~(-1)),the medium-dose ZWT group(ZWT-M,9.3 g·kg~(-1)),the high-dose ZWT group(ZWT-H,18.6 g·kg~(-1)),and the dopamine group(DA,positive control). The CHF mouse model was established over a 4-week period, which was followed by an additional 4-week treatment regimen. After 8 weeks, the spontaneous locomotor activity of mice was assessed, and TCM syndrome scoring was performed. Mouse serum samples were collected and analyzed to measure the levels of cardiac-specific biomarkers including cardiac troponin Ⅰ(cTn-Ⅰ),brain natriuretic peptide(BNP), creatine kinase-MB isoenzyme(CK-MB), creatine kinase(CK),lactate dehydrogenase(LDH),triiodothyronine(T3),succinate dehydrogenase(SDH) and myocardial cyclic adenosine monophosphate(cAMP). Cardiac tissue was collected for pathological examination. Western blot and real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction(RT-PCR) were used to detect the expression of myocardial cAMP-dependent protein kinase catalytic subunit(PKA C),protein kinase A(PKA),ryanodine receptor 2(RyR2),phospholamban(PLB),B-cell lymphoma-2(Bcl-2),caspase-3,cleaved caspase-3 and Bcl-2-associated X protein(Bax). The experimental results indicated that, compared with the control group, the DOX group exhibited significantly elevated TCM syndrome scores accompanied by decreased heart rate, reduced body weight, and increased cardiac index(P&lt;0.05); serum levels of CK, CK-MB, BNP, cTn-Ⅰ, LDH and myocardial cAMP were significantly increased(P&lt;0.05), while SDH and T3 levels were decreased(P&lt;0.05); meanwhile, myocardial interstitial fibrosis was aggravated and myocardial hypertrophy appeared; the expression of PKA C, PKA, caspase-3, cleaved caspase-3, Bax and phosphorylation of RyR2 were increased(P&lt;0.05), the expression of Bcl-2 and phosphorylation of PLB were decreased compared with the DOX group, the ZWT treated groups demonstrated reduced TCM syndrome scores, increased heart rate, improved body weight, and decreased cardiac index. Additionally, serum levels of CK, CK-MB, BNP, cTn-Ⅰ, LDH and myocardial cAMP were decreased(P&lt;0.05), while SDH and T3 levels were increased(P&lt;0.05); myocardial hypertrophy and fibrosis were also improved; the expression of PKA C, PKA, Bax, caspase-3, cleaved caspase-3 and phosphorylation of RyR2 was reduced(P&lt;0.05), and the expression of Bcl-2 and phosphorylation of PLB were increased(P&lt;0.05). These findings suggested that ZWT may exert therapeutic effects on CHF by regulating sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium-related proteins, reducing apoptosis, and improving cardiac function.
In heart failure, β-adrenergic receptor (β-AR)-Gsα-cAMP-protein kinase A (PKA) signalling predisposes to delayed-afterdepolarisation-mediated arrhythmias. Phosphodiesterases (PDEs) hydrolyse cAMP, and PDE3 restrains β1-AR, β2-AR-mediated inotropic responses in failing hearts from β-blocker-treated patients. Whether these receptors provoke arrhythmias through ryanodine receptor (RyR2) dysregulation, and how PDE activity and prior β-blockade treatment modify this, is undefined. We sought to define how β1-AR and β2-AR activation provokes arrhythmias through RyR2 mechanisms in explanted human failing hearts, and how PDE activity and prior β-blocker therapy modulate this response. A diastolic model of ventricular arrhythmia using human right ventricular trabeculae with pacing stopped was used. Trabeculae were exposed to (-)-noradrenaline/(-)-adrenaline to activate β1-AR/β2-AR respectively with or without PDE inhibitors and monitored for spontaneous contractions. In parallel, sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles from trabeculae were used to assess RyR2 channel function, phosphorylation and oxidation. Activation of β1-AR or β2-AR increased the frequency of spontaneous contractions, concomitant increases in diastolic RyR2 channel opening, phosphorylation and oxidation. Trabeculae from carvedilol-treated patients showed fewer β2-AR-mediated spontaneous contractions than those treated with β1-AR blockers. The PDE3 inhibitor cilostamide augmented β2-AR-mediated spontaneous contractions, RyR2 channel opening and Ser2808 phosphorylation. In human failing heart, β1-AR or β2-AR activation increased arrhythmic contractions associated with greater diastolic RyR2 channel opening, phosphorylation and oxidation. PDE3 attenuated β2-AR-mediated arrhythmic contractions, RyR2 channel opening and Ser2808 hyperphosphorylation. These findings suggest that combining β1- and β2-AR blockade with strategies that reduce RyR2 Ca2+ leak and preserve RyR2-associated PDE3 activity may improve arrhythmia control in heart failure.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42538417 is a review article
Uncaria laevigata exhibits potential cardiovascular protective effects, and its active constituents against myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury (MI-RI) is rarely explored. Herein, eighteen compounds were firstly isolated from hooked stems and branches of Uncaria laevigata, including alkaloids, flavonoids, lignans, triterpenoids, and fatty acids. MI-RI measurement demonstrated that compound 1 (procyanidin C1) and compound 13 (cadambine) exerted good anti-MI-RI activity, not previously reported. At 20 mg/kg, compound 1 reduced the ischaemic area to 11.40%, equivalent to metoprolol, whereas compound 13 achieved 14.36% with a clear dose-dependent improvement. Network pharmacology and molecular docking predicted that compound 1 and 13 were correlated with several signalling pathways, and showed favourable binding affinity with metalloproteinases-1 (TIMP1) (-9.5 kcal·mol-1) and ryanodine receptor 2 (RyR2) (-8.6 kcal·mol-1) respectively. This work provides lead compounds against MI-RI and further exploitation of Uncaria laevigata.
The diagnosis of major depressive disorder (MDD) currently relies on subjective clinical assessments, highlighting a critical need for objective biological markers. The sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) signaling pathway, a pivotal regulator of neuro-immune interactions, has emerged as a potential contributor to MDD pathophysiology, yet its role remains incompletely understood. This study aimed to investigate plasma levels of S1P and its key receptors, S1PR1 and S1PR3, as potential diagnostic and predictive biomarkers for MDD, with a specific focus on sex differences and treatment effects.Patients with MDD (n = 56) underwent an 8-week treatment protocol were enrolled, alongside 42 healthy controls (HCs). Depression severity was evaluated using the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD-24) and Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) at baseline and 8-week visit. The plasma levels of S1P, S1PR1 and S1PR3 were measured at baseline and week 8.At baseline, plasma concentrations of S1P, S1PR1, and S1PR3 were significantly elevated in patients with MDD compared to HCs. All three markers significantly decreased and trended toward normal levels after 8 weeks of antidepressant treatment. Notably, a significant sex-specific difference was observed for the receptors, baseline elevations of S1PR1 and S1PR3 were more obvious in female patients than in male patients. Furthermore, baseline S1P levels significantly predicted symptom improvement-as measured by changes in both HAMD-24 and PHQ-9 scores-whereas baseline S1PR levels alone did not. In addition, a combined panel of S1P, S1PR1, and S1PR3 yielded high diagnostic accuracy, with an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) of 0.9575.Our data demonstrate a significant, sex-dependent dysregulation of the peripheral S1P signaling pathway in MDD, which is responsive to antidepressant treatment. The ability of baseline S1P to predict clinical outcomes and the encouraging diagnostic precision of the S1P-S1PR1-S1PR3 panel strongly support their potential as clinically applicable biomarkers. These results imply that the S1P pathway plays a crucial role in the pathophysiology of depression, offering new possibilities for diagnosis and personalized treatment strategies in psychiatry.© 2026. The Author(s).
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a highly effective anthracycline, whose clinical application for cancer is limited by cardiotoxicity. The mechanisms underlying doxorubicin-induced toxic cardiomyopathy (DICM) involve electrophysiological remodelling with intracellular Na+ overload because of increased late INa and hyperactivation of CaMKIIδ. Increased [Na+]i contributes to CaMKIIδ activation through Na-dependent Ca2+ overload, and CaMKIIδ can further amplify late INa.We tested whether pharmacological inhibition of the late INa by either ranolazine (RAN, 10 μmol·L-1) or empagliflozin (EMPA, 1 μmol·L-1) is sufficient to attenuate DOX-mediated hyperactivation of CaMKIIδ in isolated wildtype (WT) ventricular cardiomyocytes. The contribution of reciprocal CaMKII-dependent stimulation of late INa was tested in transgenic S571A cardiomyocytes lacking the CaMKII-specific phosphorylation site S571A on NaV1.5. Functional readouts were obtained using patch-clamp technique, as well as confocal and epifluorescence microscopy.DOX acutely increased late INa in WT cardiomyocytes by twofold, which was associated with redox- and phospho-dependent activation of CaMKIIδ. Hyperactivated CaMKIIδ led to acutely impaired Ca2+ handling because of diastolic Ca2+ loss from the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) mediated by phosphorylation of the RyR2 at the CaMKII-specific phosphorylation site serine-2814. Pharmacological inhibition of late INa by EMPA or RAN, and genetic deletion of the CaMKII-specific phosphorylation-site serine-571 at NaV1.5 prevented DOX-related stimulation of the late INa and subsequent CaMKIIδ hyperactivation, which functionally preserved intracellular Ca handling.Inhibition of late INa protects cardiomyocytes from pathologic CaMKIIδ hyperactivation and impaired Ca2+ handling in the setting of acute DOX cardiotoxicity.© 2026 The Author(s). British Journal of Pharmacology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Pharmacological Society.
Heart Failure with Preserved Ejection Fraction (HFpEF) is increasingly recognized as a metabolic disorder. This review investigates the role of ceramidemediated lipotoxicity in its pathogenesis, focusing on how aberrant ceramide accumulation drives myocardial dysfunction.We synthesized and critically evaluated current preclinical and clinical literature from major electronic databases (PubMed/MEDLINE, Embase, Web of Science) up to March 2026. Using a hierarchical evidence classification framework (Level 1: human HFpEF myocardium; Level 2: HFpEF-specific animal models; Level 3: related disease models; Level 4: in vitro studies), we analyzed evidence across calcium handling, apoptosis, autophagy, inflammation, and fibrosis pathways.Ceramide lipotoxicity represents an important pathological nexus. It directly impairs cardiomyocyte function by disrupting calcium homeostasis and ion channels (SERCA2a, RyR2, Kv4.3). Concurrently, it triggers mitochondrial and death receptor-mediated apoptosis, inhibits autophagic flux via AMPK/mTORC1 dysregulation, and activates pro-inflammatory (NF-κB, IL-6, TNF-α) and pro-fibrotic (TGF-β/Smad3) signaling pathways. These mechanisms collectively lead to diastolic dysfunction and disease progression. Interventions targeting ceramide synthesis (SPT inhibitors) or downstream effects show therapeutic promise in experimental models.The available evidence is derived predominantly from Level 3 models (diabetic cardiomyopathy, obesity-induced dysfunction) and Level 4 in vitro studies. Direct validation in human HFpEF myocardium (Level 1) and HFpEF-specific animal models (Level 2) remains a critical unmet need. The ceramide-centered hypothesis is most directly applicable to the metabolic/obesity-related phenotype of HFpEF, given the phenotypic heterogeneity of the syndrome. Therapeutic translation faces hurdles, including a lack of tissue selectivity, ceramide species complexity, and unknown long-term safety of inhibiting essential sphingolipid functions.Ceramide-mediated lipotoxicity constitutes a significant pathogenic mechanism in the metabolic phenotype of HFpEF. However, this conclusion is largely inferred from preclinical models recapitulating metabolic stress. Direct validation in human HFpEF myocardium is urgently needed. Future research must prioritize human tissue lipidomics, development of multifactorial animal models, and targeted clinical trials to translate these findings into effective therapies.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
It has been hypothesized that age‑related declines in skeletal muscle and vascular function in females may be partly estrogen‑dependent. This study investigated skeletal muscle protein expression of estrogen receptor α (ERα), estrogen receptor β (ERβ), and G protein-coupled estrogen receptor 1 (GPER1), and their association with proteins involved in redox regulation and vascular function, in relation to age, menopausal status, and lifelong physical activity. Skeletal muscle biopsies were obtained from 107 healthy females aged 19-70 years, including 26 postmenopausal females who were lifelong exercise trained. Protein expression of ERα, ERβ, GPER1, and downstream redox‑ and vascular‑related proteins was quantified. Age‑ and menopause‑related differences, associations between protein targets, and effects of lifelong exercise were examined. ERα protein expression was lower in older females with a 48% lower expression in the ≥ 55 years age group compared with the < 30-year group. GPER1 protein expression was 22% lower across all older age groups compared with the < 30-year group. ERβ expression was reduced in mid‑life (45-59 years) but not in the oldest age group. Both ERα and ERβ were positively correlated with endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) expression, whereas GPER1 showed no association with eNOS. ERβ expression was associated with pro‑oxidative NOX2 expression. Aging in females is associated with a lower ERα and GPER1 protein expression in skeletal muscle. Furthermore, lower ER expression by aging is associated with a lower eNOS expression, indicating associations with proteins involved in nitric oxide-related redox regulation in skeletal muscle in aged females.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a major global health issue. Cardiovascular events and infections drive mortality in end-stage renal disease via immune dysregulation. The role of T-cell purinergic signaling and its modulation by indoxyl sulfate (IS) in CKD remains unclear.Male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent 5/6 nephrectomy. The CKD + IS group received daily IS (100 μg/kg, intraperitoneally) for 24 weeks; control group received saline. Samples were collected 2-6 h post-injection. Sepsis was induced via cecal ligation and puncture. Splenic T-cell mRNA cluster of differentiation (CD) 73, CD39, A2A receptor (A2AR), P2X purinergic receptor (P2RX7), nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) was quantified by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Plasma cytokines, vascular injury markers (asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA), intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1)), and myocardial markers (cardiac troponin T (cTnT), B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP)) were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Peripheral purine metabolites (adenosine triphosphate, adenosine diphosphate, adenosine monophosphate, adenosine (ADO)) were analyzed via ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Survival was monitored for 72 h.IS exacerbated baseline microinflammation, elevating plasma cytokines (interleukin 2 (IL-2), IL-6, IL-10, IL-17, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α)) and T-cell NF-κB. This coincided with disrupted anti-inflammatory purinergic signaling, characterized by downregulated CD73/A2AR and reduced ADO. Post-infection, the CKD + IS group showed profound CD73 suppression and ADO depletion. Despite blunted cytokine surges, this group exhibited aggravated vascular and myocardial injury (elevated ADMA, ICAM-1, cTnT, BNP) and significantly higher 72-hour mortality.Indoxyl sulfate disrupts the T-cell CD73/ADO axis, promoting basal microinflammation while impairing anti-infective immunity and exacerbating organ damage during sepsis. Targeting the IS-CD73-ADO pathway offers a therapeutic strategy for restoring immune homeostasis in uremia.
This study investigated the effects of BPAF on the indicators related to inflammatory response and explored the roles of G protein estrogen membrane receptor 1 (GPER1) in this process. The results found that BPAF promoted the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1β, IL-8 and TNF-α, increased the protein expression of IL-1β and IL-6, and upregulated the relative mRNA levels of inflammatory related genes in Jurkat cells. In vivo SD rat experiments also found that BPAF exposure significantly upregulated the levels of serum inflammatory cytokines, elevated the relative mRNA expression of inflammatory related genes in immune organs, and induced the damage of immune organs. In addition, BPAF upregulated the protein expression of GPER1 and elevated the relative mRNA levels of PI3K, AKT and MAPKs genes in Jurkat cells. GPER1 inhibitor G15 suppressed the upregulation of MAPK3, PI3K and AKT genes and concurrently inhibited the relative mRNA levels of inflammatory response genes, indicating that GPER1 activates the PI3K/AKT and MAPK signaling pathways and that this activation contributes to BPAF-induced inflammatory response at the transcriptional level. Molecular docking further confirmed that BPAF directly binds to GPER1. These results suggest that BPAF induces immunotoxicity by activating GPER1-mediated PI3K/AKT and MAPK signaling pathways.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This study aimed to investigate the effects of retinoic acid receptor responder 2 (RARRES2) on osteoclast differentiation in postmenopausal osteoporosis (PMOP) and to elucidate the underlying mechanisms.A rat model of PMOP was induced by bilateral ovariectomy (OVX) method, and an in vitro osteoclast differentiation model was induced by treating RAW264.7 cells with nuclear factor kappa-B ligand (RANKL) and macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF). Femoral bone structure, biomechanical properties, histology, osteoclast activity, co‑localization of RARRES2/CMKLR1 with TRAP+ osteoclasts and Perilipin‑1+ bone marrow adipocytes, gene expression, Fe2+ levels, reactive oxygen species (ROS) level, and lipid peroxidation level were detected.OVX model rats exhibited significant trabecular bone loss, compromised bone biomechanical properties, increased osteoclast numbers, elevated osteoclast differentiation markers, and upregulated RARRES2 expression compared with Sham controls. Co‑localization immunofluorescence revealed that RARRES2 was predominantly co‑localized with TRAP+ osteoclasts and Perilipin‑1+ bone marrow adipocytes. In vitro, RARRES2 knockdown markedly suppressed osteoclast differentiation, as evidenced by decreased osteoclast-related markers (NFATc1, CTSK, c-Fos, and F-actin) and reduced TRAP activity. Mechanistically, RARRES2 knockdown increased ferroptosis in osteoclasts, manifesting by decreased Nrf2, GPX4, HO-1, NQO1, and FTH1, along with increased ACSL4, Fe2+ accumulation , ROS production, and lipid peroxidation. These findings were also confirmed in vivo. Activation of Nrf2 with DMF partially reversed the ferroptotic alterations and osteoclast‑inhibiting effects induced by RARRES2 knockdown both in vitro and in vivo.RARRES2 knockdown inhibits osteoclast differentiation and alleviates PMOP progression by suppressing the activation of Nrf2/GPX4 and promoting osteoclast ferroptosis.
In metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH), abnormalities in post-translational modification (PTM) are both a consequence of the pathological process and a driving force for disease progression. Therefore, this study intends to characterize the PTM features (acetylation, lactylation, and phosphorylation) of MASH, which will provide a crucial theoretical basis for the diagnosis and development of new targets for MASH. In this study, protein/modification profiles of clinical liver tissues from Normal and MASH were analyzed by LC-MS to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and differentially modified proteins (DMPs) with acetylation, lactylation, and phosphorylation. This study found that acetylation and lactylation occurred mainly in K, whose upstream and downstream amino acids consisted of A, G, K, R, and V. Phosphorylation occurred mainly in S and T, whose upstream and downstream ones consisted of D, E, P, R, and S. Proteomics with ordinary, acetylation, lactylation, and phosphorylation identified 468, 433, 434, and 1,471 DEPs/DMPs, respectively, which mainly regulate cytoskeleton, immunity, proliferation, oxidative stress, inflammatory cascades, various metabolisms (sugars, amino acids, lipids, and carbon). CMKLR1, CYP2E1, GLRX, and XRCC1 were identified as key regulators in the shared DEPs of ordinary proteomics and modification proteomics. Notably, the differences in expression of the four proteins in clinical liver tissues from Normal and MASH were consistent with the proteomics results. In conclusion, this study systematically reveals the global dysregulation of PTM, emphasizing CMKLR1, CYP2E1, GLRX, and XRCC1 as the key proteins/modification sites, and provides new perspectives for targeted intervention in MASH.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42498814 is a review article
Regulatory T cells play a pivotal role in shaping immune interactions, limiting antitumor immunity, and impairing the activity of engineered effector cells. Overcoming regulatory T (Treg) cell-mediated immunosuppression is critical to unlock the full therapeutic potential of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-cell therapies. Here, we develop "armored" anti-CD19 CAR-NK cells coexpressing GITR ligand (GITRL) (CAR19-GITRL-NK) to both target malignant B cells and locally counteract Treg-mediated suppression. GITR is highly expressed on Tregs, and engagement by its ligand GITRL can modulate their function, providing a rational strategy to reprogram the tumor microenvironment.We generated anti-CD19 NK-92 and primary peripheral blood NK (PB-NK) cells with or without GITRL coexpression using lentiviral vectors, and evaluated their functionality and therapeutic potential. CAR19-GITRL-NK-92 cells were analyzed regarding their expansion, metabolism, cytotoxicity, cytokine secretion, degranulation, and in vivo antitumor potential. The cytotoxic activity of CAR19-GITRL PB-NK cells was examined, and their growth was measured in the presence of T CD4⁺ cells transduced with FoxP3 expression vector (iTreg-FoxP3) used as a model for Treg cells.CAR19-GITRL-NK-92 cells displayed superior expansion and enhanced metabolic fitness. Functionally, both CAR constructs increased the cytotoxicity of NK-92 and cytokine secretion against CD19⁺ Nalm-6 and Namalwa cells in vitro. RNA-Seq revealed 54 upregulated and 34 downregulated genes in CAR19-GITRL-NK-92 versus CAR19-NK-92 cells, with enrichment of pathways linked to immune activation, proliferation, chemotaxis, and cytotoxicity, including increased expression of NCR2, CD2, CMKLR1, IRF5, KIT, and PTPN3. In vivo, CAR19-GITRL-NK-92 cells achieved superior tumor control and the longest overall survival. In primary NK cells, CAR19-GITRL enhanced killing of CD19⁺ targets, and GITRL expression attenuated iTreg-FoxP3 mediated inhibition in CAR-NK cells, indicating a resistance mechanism to Treg suppression.Collectively, these data position CAR19-GITRL-NK cells as a potent and innovative strategy that couples direct tumor targeting with active undermining of Treg-driven immunosuppression for the treatment of B-cell leukemias and lymphomas.Copyright © 2026 Schmidt, Ebrahimabadi, Tirapelle, Garcia Ferreira, dos Santos, Biggi, da Silva Januário, Calado and Picanço-Castro.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42487440
Purinergic P2X receptors (P2RX) play key roles in neuroinflammatory processes through ATP-gated ion channel signaling. Dysregulation of P2RX receptor activity has been implicated in maternal immune activation, mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and synaptic abnormalities associated with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Despite increasing mechanistic evidence, the contribution of P2RX gene variants to ASD remains poorly understood.We retrospectively evaluated whole-exome sequencing (WES) data from individuals diagnosed with ASD according to DSM-5 criteria. Variants in the P2RX1-P2RX7 genes were identified. Clinical, genetic, and in silico data were reviewed, and variants were classified according to ACMG/AMP guidelines.Eleven individuals were identified with heterozygous P2RX variants, most frequently in P2RX7 (54.5%), followed by P2RX5 (27.3%) and P2RX4 (18.2%). Core clinical features across all genes included ASD, intellectual disability (ID), and epilepsy. P2RX4 variants included an in-frame deletion (p.Ile322del) and a truncating variant (p.Tyr366LeufsTer7), both observed in individuals with ASD and ID. P2RX5 variants comprised rare missense substitutions with variable in silico pathogenicity. Several P2RX7 variants, most notably the canonical splice-site variant c.614 + 1G > A fulfilling ACMG/AMP PVS1 and PM2 criteria, were predicted to alter receptor function. Overall, in silico analyses indicated moderate to high predicted functional impact; however, most variants lacked segregation and functional validation data.Our findings provide preliminary, exploratory observations suggesting that rare P2RX variants may represent biologically plausible candidates relevant to ASD-related pathways; however, no conclusions regarding disease association or causality can be drawn. These findings should be considered hypothesis-generating and require validation through larger controlled genetic studies and functional investigations.Copyright © 2026 Gül Ünsel-Bolat and Hilmi Bolat. Human Mutation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Persistent upregulation of the purinergic receptor P2X4R is strongly associated with microglial activation in neuropathic pain, yet the epigenetic mechanisms linking chromatin remodeling to its dysregulation remain unclear. Here, we delineate a hierarchical epigenetic cascade that promotes transcriptional activation of P2X4R in spinal microglia following nerve injury. In a mouse spared nerve injury (SNI) model, microglial activation was accompanied by increased expression of P2X4R and the histone acetyltransferase p300, together with enhanced histone acetylation (H3K9ac, H3K27ac, H4K5ac, and H4K8ac) and increased chromatin accessibility at the P2rx4 promoter. Microglia-specific deletion of p300 blunted injury-induced histone acetylation and suppressed P2X4R upregulation. We further demonstrate that the acetylation reader BRD4 is recruited to these regions and cooperates with the transcription factor SP1 to drive P2rx4 transcription, supported by chromatin analyses revealing inducible assembly of a BRD4-p300-SP1 axis. Disruption of this cascade via p300 inhibition (C646) or BRD4 blockade (JQ1) attenuated spinal neuroinflammation and alleviated nociceptive hypersensitivity. Notably, reactivation of P2X4R by BzATP largely reversed the analgesic effects of BRD4 inhibition, establishing P2X4R as a critical downstream effector. Collectively, these findings support a p300-BRD4-SP1 epigenetic cascade linking chromatin remodeling to microglia-mediated neuropathic pain, highlighting this pathway as a potential therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42371450 is a review article
Ventricular remodeling occurring in heart failure (HF) involves structural disarray of the sarcolemma T-tubule (TT)-sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) dyad junctions, thereby disrupting the close apposition of L-type Ca2+ channels (CaV1.2) with ryanodine receptors (RyR2) that trigger SR Ca2+ release and myofilament contraction. In a rat ischemic heart failure model expressing low thyroid hormone (TH) function, we used 3D stochastic optical reconstruction microscopy (STORM) to image RyR2 clusters with CaV1.2 channels, and the associated protein junctophilin-2 (Jph2). We tested whether treatment with T3, the biologically active form of TH, throughout progression of the disease would preserve T-tubule structure and dyadic ion channel organization. Confocal microscopy of isolated cardiomyocytes (CMs) stained with ANEPPS membrane dye showed significantly decreased TT density in diseased CMs while T3 treatment attenuated TT disorganization. 3D STORM images of dyadic ion channels labeled with fluorescent-tagged antibodies to RyR-Dylight550, Jph-CF647 and CaV1.2/IgG-Dylight488 were captured. A density-based algorithm defined RyR2 clusters, and a 400 nm spherical 3D volume of interest around each RyR2 cluster's centroid determined the number of CaV1.2 and Jph2 localizations associated with each RyR2 cluster. Analysis revealed significant reduction in RyR2 cluster size and number with reduced co-localized Jph2 in failing CMs. T3 treatment increased RyR2 cluster numbers and cluster volumes albeit non-significantly, with increased co-clustering of Jph2. The number of CaV1.2 co-localized with RyR2 clusters trended lower in the failing CMs. These results support maintaining TH homeostasis in optimizing the nanoscale organization of Ca2+ ion channels in triggering Ca2+ release and myofibrillar contraction in patients with heart disease.
Clinical and experimental studies have suggested that sodium-glucose cotransporter type-2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) may exert a preventive effect against doxorubicin (Dox)-induced heart failure; however, the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to investigate whether empagliflozin (Emp) protects against Dox-induced cardiotoxicity by preserving transverse tubule (t-tubule) structure and improving Ca2+ handling.Adult male C57BL/6 mice were randomly assigned to four groups: Control, Emp-only, Dox-only, and Dox+ Emp. Emp was administered to the Emp-only and Dox+ Emp groups at 10 mg/kg/day, and Dox was administered to the Dox-only and Dox+ Emp groups at a cumulative dose of 15 mg/kg. Cardiac function was assessed by echocardiography. T-tubule ultrastructure and Ca2+ handling were evaluated using confocal microscopy and IonOptix imaging. Protein expression was analyzed by western blotting.Dox-treated mice exhibited increased left ventricular dilatation and impaired cardiac function, both of which were attenuated in the Dox + Emp group. Dox induced blunted and dyssynchronous sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ release, characterized by reduced amplitude and delayed Ca2+ transients, as well as increased Ca2+ spark frequency. These abnormalities were significantly ameliorated by Emp treatment. In addition, Emp effectively prevented Dox-induced t-tubule loss and disorganization. Emp also ameliorated Dox-induced alterations in JPH2, BIN1, Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII), and CaMKII-dependent phosphorylation of RyR2, leading to improved synchronous Ca2+ release, enhanced Ca2+ transient amplitude, and reduced Ca2+ sparks frequency.Dox-induced cardiotoxicity is associated with severe t-tubule remodeling and impaired Ca2+-handling. Emp prevents Dox-induced structural and functional remodeling of t-tubule and improves Ca2+-handling, thereby exerting cardioprotective effects in mice. These findings provide structural-level mechanistic insight into Emp-mediated cardioprotection and support the potential of Emp as a preventive strategy against Dox-induced cardiotoxicity.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Brugada phenocopy is a reversible Brugada pattern on an electrocardiogram (ECG) caused by identifiable clinical conditions (such as fever, electrolyte abnormalities, or drug exposure) in patients without true congenital Brugada syndrome, which is an inherited arrhythmogenic disorder often associated with SCN5A mutations.A 53-year-old man with metastatic myeloid sarcoma presented with high-grade fever and chest pain. He was previously treated with imatinib, discontinued because of severe skin rash, followed by dasatinib, and most recently avapritinib, initiated 3 weeks before presentation. The initial 12-lead ECG demonstrated a spontaneous type 1 Brugada pattern in leads V1 and V2. Avapritinib was withheld, and Brugada ECG pattern resolved with defervescence. Genetic testing identified a heterozygous missense variant in the JPH2 gene.We report a case of type 1 Brugada ECG pattern unmasked by febrile illness after avapritinib initiation, with an incidental finding of heterozygous missense variant in the JPH2 gene.This case introduces a previously unrecognized association between avapritinib and Brugada pattern and suggests avapritinib as a potential pharmacologic trigger in susceptible individuals.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In patients, extraintestinal manifestations of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) are attenuated ventricular contractile function and arrhythmia. To determine the mechanism of IBD-induced changes in ventricular function, we used a mouse model of dextran sodium sulfate (3.5% weight/volume; 7 days)-induced colitis. Changes in cardiac function were quantified in isolated ventricular myocytes (VM) by cell shortening, imaging of [Ca2+]i, reactive oxygen species (ROS), and t-tubular density. During colitis, VMs exhibited attenuated cell-shortening and altered Ca2+-handling properties. A prolonged Ca2+ transient (CaT) rise time correlated with an increased coefficient of variation in the subcellular Ca2+ release and an attenuated t-tubular density. T-tubular loss was accompanied by increased ROS production, calpain-2 (CAPN2) expression, junctophilin-2 (JPH-2) cleavage, and autophagy. Inhibition of Angiotensin-converting enzyme during colitis (Perindopril: 3 mg/kg/day) prevented the increase in CAPN2, ROS production, autophagy, and t-tubular remodeling. It failed, however, to restore full length JPH-2. We conclude that, during IBD, the angiotensin II (AngII)-induced loss of t-tubular integrity and altered cellular Ca2+ handling can be prevented by suppression of the AngII-dependent increase in CAPN2 and autophagy and thus suppression of AngII signaling might benefit IBD patients with cardiac manifestations of the disease.
T-tubules are structural components of the cardiomyocyte plasma membrane that are imperative for efficient excitation-contraction coupling and cardiac contraction. Junctophilin-2 (JPH2) has been postulated in multiple preclinical models to play a key role in T-tubule structure development, maintenance, and organisation by anchoring the sarcoplasmic reticulum to the sarcolemma and maintaining the spatial distance between excitation contraction coupling proteins. Animal studies have shown that JPH2 downregulation leads to T-tubule dysfunction and impaired cardiac contractility, and upregulation of JPH2 has been shown to rescue heart failure in animals, holding therapeutic promise. However, human-level data on JPH2's role in heart failure remain sparse, particularly regarding its protein abundance and functional relevance in human disease, which is imperative for validating therapeutic target selection. In this study, we examined JPH2 protein levels in 152 human samples, including healthy hearts, hearts with cardiovascular risk factors, and failing hearts of various etiologies. We found that JPH2 abundance remains unchanged in human heart failure, despite significant disruption in T-tubule structure and cardiac dysfunction in these patients. Our findings suggest that JPH2 abundance alone is insufficient to preserve T-tubule integrity in failing human hearts and challenge the role of JPH2 in human disease. This work underscores the critical need for human tissue-based models in cardiovascular research, highlighting their potential in bridging preclinical findings to clinical applications.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Vandetanib is a novel multi-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) that has demonstrated clinical efficacy in the long-term treatment of medullary thyroid carcinoma. However, its use is frequently associated with cardiovascular side effects, some of which may be life-threatening. Notably, multi-targeted TKIs have been increasingly implicated in the risk of cardiotoxicity. Among these, cardiac contractile dysfunction has emerged as a critical concern, yet the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely elucidated-particularly the phenomenon of excitation-contraction uncoupling. This study aims to investigate how vandetanib affects cardiac contractility, with a specific focus on sarcomeric protein degradation, and to identify potential molecular targets for reversing myofilament degradation. Chronic treatment with vandetanib led to a significant reduction in myocardial contractile function, the disruption of cardiac troponin T (cTnT), cardiac troponin I (cTnI) organization and downregulation of essential myofilament proteins, including cTnT (42.3% ± 5.6% protein loss)and MYOM1 (32.7% ± 4.9% protein loss), without notable suppression of calcium-handling proteins such as JPH2, p-PLN, and p-CaMKII. Calcium imaging revealed preserved sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) calcium release, suggesting contractile dysfunction was not primarily calcium-driven. Instead, reduced myofilament calcium sensitivity and partial sarcomere disassembly were observed. Mechanistically, we identified upregulation of calpain expression and enzymatic overactivation as key mediators of sarcomeric protein degradation. Inhibition of calpain activity partially rescued vandetanib-induced loss of contractile proteins and preserved myofilament structure. Calpain1 overexpression aggravated, while calpain1 knockdown partially rescued, vandetanib-induced cTnT degradation. Our findings uncover a novel mechanism underlying TKI-induced cardiotoxicity, involving calpain-dependent degradation of cardiac myofilament proteins and independent of calcium dysregulation. This study highlights the critical role of sarcomere stability in maintaining cardiac function during TKI therapy and identifies calpain as a promising therapeutic target for cardioprotection, with calpain activation rather than calcium dysregulation being the key driver of vandetanib-induced cardiac dysfunction.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Doxorubicin (DOX) induces dose-dependent cardiotoxicity (DIC), which can lead to progressive heart failure and life-threatening arrhythmias. Guizhi Gancao Decoction (GGD), composed of dried twig of Cinnamomum aromaticum Nees (dry weight 12g) and dried roots and rhizomes of Glycyrrhiza uralensis Fisch. ex DC. (dry weight 6g), is a classical formula first recorded by Zhang Zhong-jing in the Shang Han Lun. It has been used for centuries in traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) to treat cardiovascular ailments associated with "heart-yang deficiency". However, its potential efficacy against DIC remains unexplored.This study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic potential of GGD against DIC and to elucidate the underlying mechanisms, with a focus on microtubule-dependent pathways.DIC models were established in vivo in mice and in vitro in cardiomyocytes using DOX. Interventions included GGD, dexrazoxane (DEX), and paclitaxel (TAX, a microtubule stabilizer). Cardiac structure and function were assessed by serial echocardiography. Cardiomyocyte viability, α-tubulin acetylation, T-tubule integrity, and key proteins (HDAC6, SIRT2, ATAT1, JPH-2, RyR2) expression and localization were evaluated. Cytosolic Ca2+ handling and sarcomere contractility were monitored. Mechanistic validation was performed using the HDAC6 inhibitor Tubastatin A (Tub A) and the ATAT1 inhibitor CPTH2.GGD significantly ameliorated DOX-induced cardiac dysfunction and cardiomyocyte atrophy both in vivo and in vitro. It prevented DOX-induced HDAC6 upregulation, thereby restoring α-tubulin acetylation and microtubule stability. Moreover, GGD, TAX, and Tub A similarly preserved T-tubule integrity, maintained proper JPH-2/RyR2 distribution, and prevented Ca2+ handling abnormalities and contractile deficits. The cardioprotective effects of GGD were completely abolished by CPTH2.Our findings suggest that GGD protects against DIC potentially through inhibition of HDAC6-mediated α-tubulin deacetylation, which stabilizes microtubules, ensures T-tubule integrity and calcium-handling protein distribution, and ultimately preserves cardiomyocyte Ca2+ handling and contractile function. We acknowledge several limitations: the findings are derived from a single batch, the definitive causal role of HDAC6 requires validation in genetic models, and the specific bioactive components responsible for the observed effects remain to be identified. Validation across multiple batches and further mechanistic studies are warranted to confirm and extend these findings.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is the most common inherited cardiac disease and a leading cause of sudden cardiac death (SCD) in young adults and athletes. It exhibits marked clinical variability, which may be influenced by genetic background and environmental factors. Although MYBPC3 is the most frequently implicated gene, data from Latin American and admixed populations remain scarce. In this study, we describe three unrelated Ecuadorian patients with clinically diagnosed HCM who harbored MYBPC3 variants. Two patients carried likely pathogenic mutations (p.Glu258Lys and p.His875Profs*8), while novel missense variants (p.Ala536Pro and p.Thr274Met) were identified as variants of uncertain significance (VUS). Additional variants were detected in TTN, MYLK2, RYR1, SDHA, APOB, and JPH2, but given their classification as VUS or a lack of association with HCM, they are described only as incidental findings. An ancestry analysis revealed heterogeneous contributions of Native American, European, and African backgrounds, reflecting the admixed composition of the Ecuadorian population. This case series underscores the phenotypic heterogeneity of HCM, even among patients with MYBPC3 variants, and highlights the importance of genomic testing in underrepresented populations to improve diagnosis, family screening, and SCD risk stratification.© 2026 Paz-Cruz, Guevara-Ramírez, Tamayo-Trujillo, Ruiz-Pozo, Cadena-Ullauri, Ibarra-Castillo, Laso-Bayas, Meza-Chico, Cabrera-Andrade and Zambrano.
BACKGROUND: Patients receiving doxorubicin (DOX) chemotherapy are susceptible to cardiac and brain tissue damage, with oxidative stress (OS) as the primary mechanism of injury. The purpose of this research is to identify effective agents to reduce the level of DOX-induced OS in the heart and brain through bioinformatics and in vitro. METHODS: Cardiac transcriptome data (GSE59672) and hippocampal transcriptome data (GSE178812) were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus database. Meanwhile, OS-related genes were retrieved in the GeneCards database. The intersection of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and OS-related genes in cardiac and brain tissues was identified to screen for differentially expressed OS-related genes (DEOGs). Subsequently, we performed Kyoto Gene and Genome Encyclopedia enrichment, Gene Ontology annotation, and protein-protein interaction network analysis. Using the Connectivity Map (Cmap) database, we predicted the potential drug to reduce the expression of DOX-induced OS in cardiac and brain injury by key genes and validated the therapeutic effect of the drug in vitro. RESULTS: A total of 20 DEOGs were identified. The network’s most important modules and central genes (Col1a1, Lox, Col1a2, Ogn, Myoc, Jph2, Casp1, Aldh1a2, Cfh) were screened by the MCODE plugin of Cytoscape software. Using the Cmap database, Canadine was predicted by key genes to reduce DOX-induced OS levels in cardiac and brain tissues. Canadine elevated superoxide dismutase 1 and catalase and reduced Malondialdehyde and reactive oxygen species levels in DOX-treated H9C2 and PC12 cells. CONCLUSIONS: Our results show that Canadine ameliorates DOX-induced cardiac and brain tissue damage by inhibiting OS.
Histamine receptors (HRH1-HRH4) are G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) that mediate essential physiological functions, including neurotransmission, gastric acid secretion, immune regulation, and presynaptic autoregulation. Despite their importance, systematic comparative analyses across mammalian histamine receptor sequences remain scarce. In this study, we performed a comprehensive evaluation of HRH1-HRH4 across multiple mammalian species, integrating sequence homology, invariant residue mapping, amino acid substitutions, compositional frequencies, Shannon entropy, polystring distributions, intrinsic disorder profiling, and phylogenetic clustering. HRH2 and HRH1 were highly conserved among primates, HRH3 showed strong cohesion within rodents, while HRH4 exhibited pronounced divergence consistent with immune-related specialization. Invariant residues localized to transmembrane helices and activation motifs (D107, W428/Y431, NPxxY), underscoring strict evolutionary constraints on ligand binding, receptor stability, and G-protein coupling. Substitutions were confined to non-essential lipid-facing and loop regions, predominantly conservative in nature, enabling diversification without disrupting the GPCR fold. Amino acid frequency and entropy analyses revealed hydrophobic dominance with subtype-specific enrichment of polar residues, while disorder profiling identified HRH1 as the most dynamic and HRH2 as the most structurally constrained. Polystring analysis highlighted conserved motifs (WWW, PP) alongside subtype- and species-specific repeats, reflecting evolutionary strategies balancing receptor stability with adaptive flexibility. Phylogenetic clustering confirmed subtype-specific cohesion, with HRH3 and HRH4 forming compact clades, HRH1 showing moderate dispersion, and HRH2 forming the most isolated cluster. The central focus of this study lies in the characterization of both structural features and evolutionary trajectories of histamine receptors, providing a unified perspective on their conservation and diversification. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that mammalian histamine receptor evolution is governed by conserved biophysical cores and selective variability, offering insights into structural conservation, functional diversification, and translational relevance for drug design and model selection.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Mounting evidence suggests an association between air pollution and the pathogenesis of osteoarthritis (OA), yet the underlying molecular mechanisms remain largely unexplored. This study aims to systematically decipher the mechanistic link between common air pollutants and OA using an integrated computational approach. We employed a novel strategy combining network toxicology, machine learning, and molecular docking. Potential target genes of seven air pollutants (benzene, SO2, NO, CO, NO2, toluene, O3) were retrieved from predictive databases. OA-related genes were identified from synovial tissue gene expression datasets from the GEO database. Machine learning algorithms were applied to construct diagnostic models and identify hub genes. Immune infiltration analysis was performed using CIBERSORTx. Molecular docking simulations were conducted to validate the interactions between pollutants and hub gene proteins.We identified eight hub genes (S1PR4, HRH4, NR2E3, FOLH1, PIM1, CA2, MMP9, and HTR2A) that are central to the pollutant-OA interaction. Enrichment analysis indicated their involvement in neuroactive ligand-receptor interactions and immune-related pathways. Immune infiltration revealed a remodeled OA microenvironment characterized by altered macrophage polarization and T-cell subsets. The Naïve Bayes model, built upon these genes, demonstrated robust diagnostic performance. Crucially, molecular docking confirmed spontaneous binding (binding energy < 0 kcal/mol) between all seven pollutants and the eight hub proteins, with toluene exhibiting the strongest overall affinity in silico. Collectively, our integrative analysis generates novel hypotheses regarding molecular and immune mechanisms that may link air pollution exposure to OA pathogenesis, providing a framework for future experimental validation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Pain in endometriosis involves not only nociceptive but also neuropathic and neurogenic components, reflecting its complex nature. Histamine, a biogenic amine, has emerged as a critical mediator connecting inflammation and nerve sensitization. This study aimed to characterize histamine receptor (HRH1-HRH4) expression, localization, and related inflammatory mediators in peritoneal, deep infiltrating, and ovarian endometriosis. Gene expression datasets were analyzed, and immunofluorescence staining of endometriotic lesions was performed using immune and neuronal markers. Histamine and its metabolite methylhistamine were quantified in serum, peritoneal fluid, and urine samples. HDC expression was significantly elevated in all endometriotic lesions compared with controls (all p < 0.01), paralleling increased IL-6, COX-2, NGF, and NGFR levels (p < 0.0001). In contrast, HRH1-HRH4 transcript levels showed no significant differences between groups. Immunofluorescence demonstrated robust HRH1-HRH4 protein expression in epithelial, immune, and nerve fibers, with subtype-specific colocalization patterns. Serum histamine concentrations were significantly higher in endometriosis patients than controls (0.484 vs. 0.153 ng/mg protein; p = 0.0014), whereas peritoneal histamine and urinary methylhistamine showed no group differences. Overall, these findings highlight histamine signaling as a potentially important component of endometriosis pathophysiology and point toward new directions for mechanistic studies and therapeutic exploration.
Air pollution disproportionately affects individuals with asthma, triggering asthma exacerbations and morbidity. We hypothesized that children with and without asthma have distinct airway transcriptome networks associated with ozone and particulate matter ≤ 2.5 µm (PM2.5) exposure.We recruited children from the New York metropolitan area, mapped their air pollutant exposures, and collected nasal and bronchial samples for transcriptome and cellular profiling. We used causal network construction and key driver analyses to build airway transcriptome networks for ozone and PM2.5 exposure.The cohort included 307 children, including 167 (54.4%) with asthma and 140 (45.6%) without asthma. The mean age was 13.4 years (SD 4.4 years). Among children with asthma, the airway causal network and its key drivers represented pro-inflammatory adaptive immune processes. Six key driver transcripts for ozone (CLC, CPA3, FGL2, LGALS12, IL7R, HRH4) and three key driver transcripts for PM2.5 (TNFRSF10C, FGL2, EVI2B) were identified. Nasal expression of CLC and CPA3 positively correlated with respective bronchial expression and bronchial eosinophil abundance. Bronchial expression of TNFRSF10C positively correlated with bronchial neutrophil abundance. In striking contrast, among healthy children, key drivers for the ozone network were enriched for DNA repair and immune regulation.Children with and without asthma have very distinct causal networks and key drivers for ozone and PM2.5 exposure. The identified key drivers represent high-yield targets for intervention and treatment of pollutant-exacerbated asthma.© 2025. The Author(s).
Inflammation is a key driver of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and may connect all known AD risk factors. Recently, AD resilience outcomes have been developed which have helped to uncover mechanisms that enable some individuals to withstand significant AD pathology or genetic risk, while retaining cognitive function. We conducted a series of transcriptome-wide association studies (TWAS) focusing on monocytes, key innate immune cells that respond to pathogens and invade the CNS. Monocyte expression data under various immune stimulation states (naive, LPS 2 h, LPS 24 h, IFN 24 h) and corresponding genotype data from 432 individuals (Fairfax et al. [1]) were analyzed. We developed cis-genetic expression models using both elastic-net, and MASH combined with LD-pruning; capturing polygenic structures and independent inflammatory eQTLs across conditions, respectively. These models were applied to GWAS summary statistics of three AD resilience phenotypes: cognitive and global AD-resilience, and Amish cognitive preservation. We identified 180 TWAS results surpassing a suggestive significance threshold of PFDR < 0.20, including 92 unique genes. APP, a well-known AD gene, showed the strongest overall association, which may inform ongoing efforts targeting its action in the brain. Whole-blood RNA-seq data from a separate AD cohort confirmed differential expression between AD cases and controls in 35 putative targets, including: SURF1, ACKR3, LILRA5, FBXO2, ITPR1, and HRH4. We also demonstrate that the regulation of these genes is specific to monocytes. Finally, in-silico cell sorting (CIBERSORTx) revealed differential monocyte abundance by AD status, supporting monocyte-driven inflammation as a distinct, complementary pathway of myeloid cell involvement in AD. Together, these findings highlight monocytes as a critical and understudied cellular component for AD resilience mechanisms, with potential implications for novel immunotherapeutic strategies and precision medicine approaches in AD.© 2025. The Author(s).
Amyloid-beta (Aβ) and hyperphosphorylated tau (p-tau) aggregation are hallmark pathogenic events in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Microglial clearance of these toxic aggregates is essential, yet the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. This study demonstrates that low-dose ionizing radiation (LDIR) provides protection against Aβ toxicity in vitro and rescues cognitive deficits in sporadic, young, and aged familial AD mouse models, including reductions in Aβ plaque, tauopathy, and microgliosis, while promoting microglial phagocytosis in aged 3xTg-AD mice. Transcriptomic analysis identifies VUF6002, a histamine H4 receptor (H4R) antagonist, which mimics the beneficial effects of LDIR by promoting microglial activity. VUF6002 treatment restores cognitive function in aged 3xTg-AD and APPswe/PSEN1dE9 mice and significantly increases Aβ and p-tau clearance by resident microglia. Mechanistically, deletion of Hrh4 in microglia, but not in neurons, reverses cognitive deficits and mitigates key AD pathogenesis by activating the cAMP/TGF-β1/Smad3 pathway. These beneficial effects are completely abolished by inhibition of TGF-β receptor 1 signaling, which is also downregulated in AD patients. Collectively, these findings reveal a H4R/cAMP/TGF-β1/Smad3 signaling axis involved in microglial phagocytosis and cognitive function, serving as a novel therapeutic target for AD.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Diabetic cognitive impairment (DCI) is closely associated with brain energy metabolism disorders. Lactate, acting as both a metabolic intermediate and an epigenetic regulatory molecule in this context, has a crucial impact on neural function through its dynamic balance. This study aimed to explore whether Naofucong (NFC) improves DCI in diabetic rats by regulating hippocampal energy metabolism and histone lactylation modification. Sixty male Sprague - Dawley (SD) rats were used to establish diabetic rat models, which were then divided into control group, diabetic model group, NFC group, and oxamate group, with interventions lasting for 12 weeks. Behavioral tests were conducted to evaluate cognitive function, spatial metabolomics was employed to detect the metabolic function in the hippocampal region, and molecular biological techniques such as CUT&Tag sequencing and Western blotting were used for mechanism exploration. The results showed that NFC significantly improved the cognitive function of diabetic rats. This might be achieved by improving energy metabolism, increasing glutathione content, and regulating the expression of histamine receptor H4 (Hrh4) through altering the lactylation level of histones. This study reveals a novel mechanism by which NFC improves DCI, providing a potential intervention target and theoretical basis for the treatment of DCI.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 40911221
Biogenic amines (BAs) are known to influence tumorigenesis, yet their precise role in breast cancer remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the expression patterns of BA-related genes, proteins, and their regulatory miRNAs across different breast cancer subtypes to identify potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets.A cohort of 501 breast cancer patients was classified into luminal A (n = 130), luminal B HER2- (n = 100), luminal B HER2+ (n = 96), non-luminal HER2+ (n = 36), and triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC; n = 43). Gene expression was assessed via microarray analysis and validated using RT-qPCR. Protein levels were quantified using ELISA, while miRNA profiling was conducted to identify post-transcriptional regulatory interactions. Statistical significance was determined using ANOVA and Tukey's post-hoc test (p < 0.05).Histamine-related genes (HRH1-HRH4) were upregulated across all subtypes, with HRH2 and HRH4 most elevated in TNBC (FC = 7.18, p < 0.01). DRD2 showed widespread upregulation (FC = 15.98, p < 0.001), whereas DRD5 was markedly downregulated, especially in non-luminal HER2+ tumors (FC = - 13.01, p < 0.01). miRNA analysis revealed downregulation of hsa-miR-30b-3p and hsa-miR-372-5p in TNBC and HER2+ subtypes, correlating with HRH2 and HRH4 overexpression (p < 0.05). EGR1 and ICAM1 exhibited strong subtype-specific expression, with ICAM1 significantly upregulated in TNBC (FC = 25.76, p < 0.001).Subtype-specific dysregulation of BA-related genes and miRNAs suggests their involvement in tumor progression, immune modulation, and metabolic regulation. The findings highlight potential therapeutic targets, particularly in TNBC and HER2+ subtypes.© 2025. The Author(s).
This study investigates the expression and clinical significance of the histamine receptor family (HRs) in the bone marrow of children with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML).RNA sequencing was performed to assess the expression levels of HR family members (HRH1, HRH2, HRH3, and HRH4) in the bone marrow of 140 pediatric AML patients prior to chemotherapy. We compared the expression levels across various risk categories and assessed their relationship with prognosis using ROC curve analysis to evaluate predictive capabilities for outcomes.Among the 140 AML patients in our center, those with different FAB subtypes showed varying overall survival (OS), event-free survival (EFS), and relapse-free survival (RFS). Specifically, the M2 and M4 subtypes showed better OS, EFS, and RFS, whereas the M5 subtype had poorer outcomes. Among patients with different fusion genes, those with AML1/ETO had superior OS, EFS, and RFS compared to other subtypes. Additionally, patients with CEBPA mutations demonstrated relatively favorable outcomes, whereas those with FLT3 mutations had poorer survival metrics. HRH1 expression was significantly higher in AML patients than in normal controls (P < 0.05). Patients in the high HRH1 expression group had significantly better EFS and RFS than those in the low expression group (P < 0.05). Furthermore, HRH1 expression was significantly higher in the low-risk (LR) group than in the intermediate and high-risk (IR & HR) groups (P < 0.05). This finding suggests that HRH1 may serve as an early predictor of risk, EFS, and RFS.The clinical significance of HR family members varies in pediatric AML, with HRH1 identified as a valuable predictor of relapse in children with AML.
Cisplatin is a widely used chemotherapeutic agent whose nephrotoxicity limits its clinical utility. Here, we investigated whether thermal therapy alleviates cisplatin-induced injury in renal proximal tubular epithelial cells (NRK52E) and explored the underlying molecular mechanisms. While simultaneous thermal stimulation with cisplatin showed no protective effect, thermal preconditioning (TP) performed 6 hours prior exerted significant cytoprotection. This effect was mediated by early TRPV4 activation, which triggered enhanced Ca²⁺ influx and subsequent upregulation of HSP27, a cytoprotective chaperone. Inhibition or knockdown of TRPV4 or HSP27 abolished the protective effects, confirming their essential roles. These findings suggest that TP induces a preemptive protective response in renal tubular cells, highlighting TRPV4-mediated HSP27 expression as a key mechanism for reducing cisplatin nephrotoxicity.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558134 is a review article
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic inflammatory skin disorder characterized by immune imbalance and excessive cytokine production, in which dysregulation of transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4) contributes to skin inflammation and itching. In this study, we screened a natural product library and identified sclareol as a preferential TRPV4 inhibitor. Molecular docking and calcium imaging in HaCaT cells confirmed that sclareol effectively blocks TRPV4 channel activation. With an MC903‑induced AD mouse model, we found that sclareol treatment significantly alleviated skin lesions, reduced epidermal thickening, decreased infiltration of CD4+ T cells, and lowered serum levels of immunoglobulin E (IgE), interleukin (IL)-1β, and IL-13. In an inflammatory cell model established by stimulating HaCaT cells with tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α and interferon (IFN)-γ, sclareol attenuated the production of key inflammatory mediators, blocked activation of both NF‑κB and MAPK signaling pathways, and mitigated oxidative stress by reducing reactive oxygen species (ROS). To confirm target specificity, we used TRPV4‑knockout cells; notably, observed anti‑inflammatory and antioxidant effects were substantially attenuated in the absence of TRPV4. Collectively, this study establishes sclareol as a novel TRPV4 inhibitor that ameliorates AD pathology through a TRPV4‑dependent mechanism involving suppression of inflammatory signaling and oxidative stress.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The aim of this study is to elucidate the role of the arteriogenesis mechanism and its impact on the remodeling of choke vessels within the delayed multiterritory perforator flap (MPF) from the perspective of protein molecular mechanisms.Integument radiography and HE staining were used to conduct qualitative and quantitative evaluations of the microvascular morphology within the choke zones. A laser Doppler blood flow imager was used to assess blood perfusion. Immunohistochemistry was used to perform qualitative, semiquantitative, and localized analyses of the spatiotemporal dynamic expression of protein molecules involved in collateral artery growth within the choke zone at 1, 3, 5, and 7 days following delayed surgery and flap elevation.Radiographs of the perfused integuments revealed that true anastomoses emerged in choke zones 1 and 2 three days after the delayed surgery. HE staining findings showed that after flap delay surgery, both choke zones 1 and 2 underwent remodeling, characterized by increased arteriolar diameters and decreased microvessel density. The blood perfusion units in choke zones 1 and 2 were significantly higher on 1 day than at 4 hours after the delayed surgery (P<0.05). In choke zones 1 and 2, protein molecules associated with collateral artery remodeling-including TRPV4, VE-cadherin, eNOS, iNOS, ICAM-1, FAK, Ephrin B2, PLGF, CD163, MMP-9, MMP-2, and CX-37-exhibited significant increases after delayed surgery and/or flap elevation, compared with their preoperative expression levels (P<0.05).The spatiotemporal dynamic changes of protein molecules related to the remodeling of collateral arteries are closely related to the remodeling of choke vessels in choke zones 1 and 2 of delayed MPF with ligated perforators in the dynamic region, and the arteriogenesis mechanism may play an important role in the remodeling of these choke vessels.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Previous studies have shown that the endothelial Ca2+ permeable channel TRPV4 (transient receptor potential channel family V isoform 4) acts as a vasodilator defense against endothelial dysfunction in obesity-induced hypertension. However, the role of endothelial TRPV4 in metabolic homeostasis related to obesity is unclear.We identify endothelial TRPV4 as a previously unknown regulator of obesity-induced metabolic alteration.Endothelial-specific TRPV4-deficient and overexpressing mice were generated. Endothelial TRPV4 knockout exacerbated glucose intolerance, insulin resistance, and impaired lipid metabolism. Conversely, endothelial TRPV4 overexpression restored glucose and lipid homeostasis impaired by a high-fat diet. In white adipose tissue, endothelial TRPV4 not only regulated UCP1 expression but also suppressed multiple proinflammatory genes associated with metabolic dysfunction. Mechanistically, we demonstrated that loss of endothelial TRPV4 decreased flow-induced intracellular Ca2+ influx and the subsequent phosphorylation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (p-eNOS), leading to diminished nitric oxide (NO) production. In contrast, overexpression of endothelial TRPV4 rescued Ca2+-dependent eNOS phosphorylation and NO bioavailability. Furthermore, we identified that TRPV4 activation triggers an AMPK-eNOS signaling axis in endothelial cells, which subsequently activates the sGC/cGMP/PKG pathway in adipocytes via paracrine signaling to promote UCP1 expression. Consistently, direct global knockout of eNOS caused metabolic disorders which were similar to those observed in TRPV4-deficient mice. Importantly, a four-week in vivo rescue experiment with the NO donor DETA-NONOate effectively reversed the metabolic dysfunction and adipose tissue inflammation induced by endothelial TRPV4 deficiency.Endothelial TRPV4 preserves metabolic homeostasis by promoting AMPK/eNOS-derived NO production, which subsequently activates the adipocyte cGMP/PKG signaling axis to mitigate adipose tissue inflammation and metabolic dysfunction of obesity.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Sepsis-induced acute lung injury (ALI) is characterized by edema resulting from increased vascular permeability. Transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4) interacts with inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 1 (IP3R-1) through calmodulin-binding domains and regulates vascular permeability. However, the specific mechanisms underlying the roles of TRPV4 and IP3R-1 in endothelial pyroptosis and vascular permeability remain unclear.EMPs were measured in septic patients and controls, and co-cultured with human pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells (HPMECs). LPS-induced ALI was assessed in wild-type or Gsdmd-/- mice with pharmacological modulation of TRPV4, as well as in Trpv4-/- mice. Pyroptosis was detected in IP3R-1-silenced HPMECs treated with LPS and TRPV4 agonist. IP3R-1/GSDMD interaction was confirmed by structural prediction, Co-IP, and immunofluorescence. Intracellular Ca2+ was detected by flow cytometry, and tissue Ca2+ was visualized by in vivo imaging.Elevated EMPs in septic patients enhanced endothelial permeability, upregulated TRPV4 and GSDMD-NT generation in HPMECs. TRPV4 promotes HPMECs permeability and pyroptosis in an IP3R-1-dependent manner. TRPV4 inhibition attenuated lung injury and ameliorated pulmonary dysfunction, while Trpv4 knockdown improved survival. Knockdown of IP3R-1 reduced intracellular Ca2+ and mtDNA levels in HPMECs. In vivo imaging revealed attenuated Ca2+ accumulation in Trpv4-/- mice. The interaction between TRPV4/IP3R-1 and GSDMD was Ca2+-dependent.TRPV4 disrupts HPMEC integrity via IP3R-1 and triggers GSDMD-mediated pyroptosis through a Ca2+-dependent mechanism, exacerbating LPS-induced ALI.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4) channels are mechanosensitive ion channels implicated in Ca2+ signalling across various tissues, yet their functional role in human lens epithelial cells remains poorly understood. We aimed to investigate the contribution of TRPV4 to mechanically induced Ca2+ signalling in human anterior lens epithelium.Human anterior lens epithelial preparations were obtained from postoperative lens capsules, including both cataractous and non-cataractous samples. Using multicellular Ca2+ imaging, we analysed the spatiotemporal properties of intercellular Ca2+ waves following localised mechanical stimulation under control conditions and after pharmacological inhibition of TRPV4 with HC-067047.Mechanical stimulation triggered radially propagating Ca2+ waves characterised by distance-dependent attenuation of amplitude and kinetics. TRPV4 inhibition significantly reduced wave propagation velocity and enhanced spatial signal decay, indicating a key role in maintaining efficient intercellular Ca2+ signal propagation. These effects were most pronounced in non-cataractous epithelium, while in cataractous lenses, they exhibited stage-dependent differences, suggesting remodelling of Ca2+ signalling pathways during disease progression. The observed intercellular Ca2+ wave propagation is consistent with gap junctional and paracrine signalling, while TRPV4 activity modulates its efficiency by shaping the initiating Ca2+ response.TRPV4 channels contribute to both the efficiency and spatial extent of Ca2+ signalling in the lens epithelium. These findings identify TRPV4 as an important regulator of mechanically induced intercellular communication and a potential target for modulating lens function in health and disease.© 2026 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The purpose of this study was to determine if changing the tension applied to the rat lens via the zonules increases intracellular Ca²⁺ levels via the activation of mechanosensitive Transient Receptor Potential Vanilloid (TRPV)1 and TRPV4 channels.Rat lenses were mounted in a recording chamber with zonular attachments intact and imaged using confocal laser-scanning microscopy. Epithelial cells were loaded with Cal520 AM, whereas fiber cells were microinjected with Fluo-8 pentapotassium salt. Changes in intracellular Ca²⁺ were monitored following pharmacological modulation of ciliary muscle contractility using Tropicamide to increase zonular tension and pilocarpine to decrease zonular tension. The contribution of TRPV1 and TRPV4 channels was assessed using selective inhibitors.Increasing zonular tension with Tropicamide induced a transient Ca²⁺ increase in epithelial cells and a robust, sustained Ca²⁺ influx in differentiating fiber cells. Decreasing zonular tension with pilocarpine produced minimal epithelial responses but evoked distinct Ca²⁺ elevations in fiber cells. Isolation of the lens from the ciliary muscle abolished these responses, indicating that this influx depends on mechanical coupling through the zonular fibers. Furthermore, pre-incubation of lenses in the presence of TRPV1/4 inhibitors revealed that Tropicamide-induced Ca²⁺ responses in fiber cells are largely transduced by TRPV4, whereas activation of TRPV1 mediates the increase in Ca²⁺ induced by Pilocarpine.In this study, we have shown that extrinsic modulation of ciliary muscle contractility, through alterations in zonular tension, generates regionally specific influxes of Ca²⁺ mediated by mechanosensitive TRPV1/4 channels which in other studies have been shown to regulate lens water transport and lens power. These findings suggest that lens power may be influenced by extrinsic feedback regulation from other tissues in the eye.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42523608 is a review article
Hydrocephalus is characterized by abnormal accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) due to disrupted secretion, circulation, or reabsorption. CSF homeostasis is regulated by ion and water channels on choroid plexus epithelial (CPe) cells, including the mechanosensitive cation channel, transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4). Although TRPV4 antagonism prevents hydrocephalus progression in rats, how TRPV4 activity modulates CSF production remains unclear.Because TRPV4 function is phosphorylation-dependent, we examined its activation (GSK1016790A) and inhibition (RN1734) and the downstream signaling alterations in human choroid plexus papilloma cells (HIBCPP) using phosphoproteomic mass spectrometry.Our phosphoproteomic analysis revealed significant changes in kinases and tight junction (TJ) proteins regulating epithelial barrier integrity. TRPV4 activation altered TJ proteins such as Zonula Occludens-1 (ZO-1), and Claudin-7 (CLDN7) and AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), phosphorylation, with a notable foldchange increase of AMPK inhibitory phospho form (Ser496). Further our electrophysiological and biochemical analyses demonstrated that AMPK activation followed by TRPV4 stimulation increased AMPK Ser496 phosphorylation, and epithelial permeability was subsequently elevated, although it was statistically not significant. In contrast, AMPK inhibition prior to TRPV4 activation resulted in the opposite effect with substantial epithelial barrier tightness which was evident from the ZO-1 expression. Moreover, a pharmacologically available anti-diabetic drug, metformin exhibited a similar trend like Compound C in reducing the barrier epithelial permeability after TRPV4 agonist treatment, highlighting that metformin promotes barrier tightness via an AMPK-dependent pathway coupled to TRPV4 signaling.Overall, these findings identify an AMPK-TRPV4 signaling axis that modulates epithelial permeability and may influence CSF regulation, highlighting a potential therapeutic target for hydrocephalus.
Immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapy is frequently limited by severe gastrointestinal toxicity. While the immune mechanisms driving late-stage, overt mucosal inflammation are increasingly recognized, the early microbiota-metabolic events that prime epithelial barrier dysfunction remain poorly defined.We employed an integrated multi-omics approach in a murine model of early ICI-induced injury, with validation in a clinical cohort of patients with ICI-colitis. Mechanisms were investigated using in vitro receptor screening, genetically engineered mice with altered MLCK1 activity, and pharmacological intervention with repurposed low-dose tacrolimus. Subcutaneous melanoma models were utilized to evaluate the relationship between barrier modulation and anti-tumor outcomes.Early ICI treatment induced a distinct dysbiotic state characterized by Pseudomonadota expansion, which was associated with the accumulation of bioactive lysophosphatidic acid (LPA)-a metabolic signature also observed in human patients. Mechanistically, we identified LPAR2 as the key epithelial sensor that transduces this metabolic signal into pathological MLCK1 activation, driving the priming phase of barrier dysfunction. Genetic ablation of MLCK1 prevented this early barrier loss and was associated with improved tumor control and favorable regional immune alterations. Conversely, constitutive activation of MLCK1 exacerbated barrier disruption, which correlated with accelerated tumor progression and a systemic immunosuppressive shift. Furthermore, repurposing low-dose tacrolimus as a selective modulator to disrupt FKBP8-dependent MLCK1 recruitment effectively mitigated barrier injury without dampening anti-tumor responses.The dysbiosis-associated LPA-LPAR2-MLCK axis acts as an early metabolic trigger for the priming phase of ICI-induced barrier dysfunction. Modulating this upstream initiation step provides a temporal and mechanism-based strategy to uncouple intestinal toxicity from anti-tumor efficacy.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Delayed puberty in males requires differentiation between self-limited delay and congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (CHH), including Kallmann syndrome (KS).We report an adolescent male presenting with delayed puberty and anosmia, consistent with KS. Hormonal evaluation confirmed CHH, and MRI demonstrated olfactory bulb agenesis. Targeted next-generation sequencing identified two heterozygous variants in functionally related genes: a pathogenic nonsense variant in PROK2 and a missense variant in PROKR2 classified as a variant of uncertain significance. Given their ligand-receptor relationship, oligogenic analysis was performed. The variant combination was prioritized as highly likely disease-causing by ORVAL/VarCoPP and further supported by OLIDA-based interpretation, providing objective evidence for digenic inheritance. Parental segregation confirmed trans inheritance.To our knowledge, this is the first report with objective support for the high likelihood of the existence of a digenic etiology in a patient with CHH, based on the use of OLIDA, which provides a standardized framework for the interpretation of oligogenic combinations. These findings highlight the contribution of multilocus variation to CHH and underscore the need for standardized approaches to interpret oligogenic mechanisms in clinical practice.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by S. Karger AG.
G protein-coupled receptor 35 (GPR35) has been implicated in cancer, but the functional roles of its isoforms remain unresolved. Here, we characterize GPR35-long, an N-terminally extended epithelial isoform selectively enriched in colorectal cancer and cholangiocarcinoma. Mass spectrometry and immunohistochemistry confirmed GPR35-long protein expression in tumor cells. Functional analyses revealed that GPR35-long supports tumor-associated transcriptional programs, enhances cellular ATP production, and exhibits increased constitutive and ligand-induced beta-arrestin signaling. These phenotypes were selectively suppressed by the inverse agonist CID-2745687, identifying GPR35-long as a functionally distinct isoform with selective pharmacological sensitivity in tumor cells.© 2026 The Author(s). FEBS Letters published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the central circadian clock in mammals, generates robust yet adaptable circadian rhythms through electrically mediated coordination among heterogeneous peptidergic neuronal populations with presumed cell type-specific roles. Previous studies have proposed that circadian changes in membrane excitability of individual SCN neurons arise from time-of-day-dependent shifts in the relative balance of subthreshold Na⁺ and K⁺ conductances. Although multiple channels have been implicated in these processes, how nocturnally dominant K⁺ conductances are implemented in a cell type-specific manner remains poorly understood. Prokineticin 2 (Prok2) has been identified as a SCN signaling peptide essential for behavioral circadian regulation; however, the electrophysiological properties of Prok2-expressing neurons and the mechanisms underlying their diurnal rhythmicity remain largely unexplored. Here, using electrophysiological approaches in mice of either sex, we show that Prok2 neurons exhibit diurnal variations in electrical properties, with higher excitability during the day and reduced excitability at night, and that G protein-coupled inwardly rectifying potassium (GIRK) channel-mediated basal current contributes to nighttime hyperpolarization. Immunofluorescence and single-cell RT-PCR analyses revealed that GIRK1 and GIRK3 are the predominant GIRK subunits expressed in Prok2 neurons. Moreover, Prok2 neuron-specific deletion of GIRK3 using in vivo genome editing resulted in significant nocturnal depolarization and induced abnormalities in behavioral rhythms, including delayed activity onset and circadian period lengthening, with altered SCN network activity. Together, these findings suggest that tonic, G protein-dependent regulation of GIRK channels provides a night-specific inhibitory mechanism that contributes to intrinsic diurnal neuronal excitability in Prok2 neurons and supports the regulation of behavioral circadian rhythms.Significance Statement In the mammalian suprachiasmatic nucleus, neuronal populations expressing distinct peptides interact through coordinated electrical activity to generate circadian rhythms. However, the ion channel mechanisms underlying diurnal rhythmicity of electrical activity in functionally distinct cell types remain incompletely understood. Here, using a comprehensive approach, we identify G protein-coupled inwardly rectifying potassium (GIRK) channels as a key determinant of nocturnal hyperpolarization in prokineticin 2 (Prok2)-expressing neurons, regulatory nodes involved in behavioral circadian rhythms. We further demonstrate that Prok2 neuron-specific loss of the GIRK3 subunit alters behavioral rhythms. These findings suggest that G protein-dependent regulation of GIRK channels is a key mechanism underlying diurnally patterned intrinsic electrical activity in Prok2 neurons and contributes to behavioral circadian rhythms.Copyright © 2026 the authors.
Isolated hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (IHH) is a rare endocrine disorder caused by genes such as ANOSI (OMIM*300836), FGFR1 (OMIM*136350), PROK2 (OMIM*607002) and PROKR2 (OMIM*607123) (etc.), leading to downstream dysfunction of pituitary gonadotropin secretion and subsequent impairment of gonadal function. Clinical manifestations include incomplete or partial puberty and infertility.In this study, whole-genome sequencing of a female patient with HH identified a novel 5' splice site variant c.285 + 772 T>G in the deep intron of PROK2 (NM_001126128.2). In vitro minigene validation revealed abnormal splicing of this variant, with 69 base pairs retained in intron 3, ultimately leading to changes in protein length, which may lead to changes in protein structure. According to the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) pathogenicity classification, this variant is rated as likely pathogenic variant (LP).PROK2 variants can lead to HH and we report a case with a novel splice site variant that has been confirmed to lead to the retention of 69 base pairs in intron 3 during RNA splicing.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Genetics & Genomic Medicine published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The G-protein-coupled receptor 35 (GPR35) plays a key role in various physiological and pathological processes and has emerged as a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of pain, inflammation, and metabolic diseases. Herein, we report the discovery and characterization of dantrolene analogues as GPR35 ligands. Pharmacological profiling with label-free dynamic mass redistribution and Tango arrestin assays showed that the 2,4-imidazolidinedione-containing analogues of dantrolene act as partial agonists of the GPR35, while its urea, thiourea, or amido derivatives display probe and assay dependent antagonism against the receptor.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
G protein-coupled receptor 35 (GPR35) has emerged as a potential therapeutic target for metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) and metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH). However, the sequence identity between human and mouse GPR35 is only 72%, which severely limits the development of species-independent active ligands for GPR35 and consequently hinders pharmacological studies targeting GPR35 in MAFLD/MASH. In this work, a series of novel GPR35 agonists based on the coumarin scaffold were developed, exhibiting low species differences between hGPR35 and mGPR35. Some of these agonists demonstrated low nanomolar potency, such as compound 6l (hEC50 = 30 nM, mEC50 = 21 nM) and compound 9f (hEC50 = 12 nM, mEC50 = 2 nM). The key binding sites of 6l and 9f with the h/mGPR35 receptor were further identified, respectively. Both compounds exhibited excellent lipid-lowering effects in in vitro and in vivo models. In a high-fat diet-induced mouse model of MASH, 6l and 9f significantly alleviated key pathological drivers of disease progression, including hepatic steatosis, lipid metabolism disorders, liver inflammation and fibrosis. Collectively, this study provides a class of novel agonists with high potency and low species differences for h/mGPR35, laying a foundation for further exploration of the pharmacological relationship between GPR35 and MAFLD/MASH.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42413736 is a review article
Allergic asthma is a chronic inflammatory airway disease with complex pathogenesis and limited therapeutic options. G protein-coupled receptor 35 (GPR35) is increasingly recognized as an important regulator of immune and inflammatory responses and represents a potential therapeutic target for asthma. Herbacetin (HBN), a natural flavonoid with anti-inflammatory activity, has shown potential anti-asthmatic effects; however, its direct molecular targets and underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study investigated whether the anti-allergic effects of HBN are mediated through GPR35 activation and explored the associated downstream signaling pathways. Agonist activity was evaluated using dynamic mass redistribution assays in CHO-K1-hGPR35 and CHO-K1-mGPR35 cells. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations were employed to analyze HBN-GPR35 binding. GPR35 internalization was assessed in HT-29 cells by immunofluorescence. Changes in PI3K/Akt/mTOR and MAPK pathway phosphorylation were examined by Western blotting, with the GPR35 antagonist ML145 used for validation. The results showed that HBN acted as a potent GPR35 agonist, with EC₅₀ values of 7.45 μM for hGPR35 and 1.39 μM for mGPR35, and induced receptor internalization, which was blocked by ML145. Molecular docking revealed a strong binding affinity between HBN and GPR35 (-8.249 kcal/mol), and molecular dynamics simulations confirmed the stability of the complex. Mechanistically, HBN inhibited PI3K/Akt/mTOR phosphorylation while promoting activation of MAPK signaling pathways, including ERK, p38, and JNK; these effects were reversed by ML145. In conclusion, herbacetin functions as a GPR35 agonist and exerts anti-allergic effects in asthma through GPR35-dependent modulation of PI3K/Akt/mTOR and MAPK signaling pathways, supporting GPR35 as a promising therapeutic target for allergic asthma.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Leukocyte migration is a fundamental process in both innate and adaptive immune responses. This process is tightly regulated by chemokines and their cognate receptors. The bioavailability of chemokines is further modulated by atypical chemokine receptors (ACKRs), a subset of chemokine receptor-like molecules that lack coupling to canonical G protein-mediated signaling pathways. Among these, ACKR4 regulates dendritic cell migration through ligand scavenging and has been implicated in tumor progression in murine models. We previously established anti-mouse ACKR4 (mACKR4) mAbs, A4Mab-1, A4Mab-2, and A4Mab-3, by N-terminal peptide immunization. This study examined the binding epitopes of A4Mabs. Alanine (or glycine) scanning within the N-terminal region (amino acids 2-19) was performed using flow cytometry and Western blotting. Results showed that Tyr12 is required for recognition by A4Mab-1 in flow cytometry, whereas Tyr11, Tyr12, Glu14, Glu15, and Glu17 are required in Western blotting. For A4Mab-2, Tyr12, Glu15, and Asn16 are required in flow cytometry, whereas Tyr11, Tyr12, Tyr13, Glu15, and Asn16 are required in Western blotting. Additionally, Glu14, Asn16, and Glu17 are required for recognition by A4Mab-3 in flow cytometry. These findings contribute to the understanding of mACKR4 recognition by A4Mabs.
This study aims to investigate the influence of age and gender on the efficacy of metabolic surgery in patients with obesity with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).This is a prospective cohort study. A total of 95 patients with obesity and T2DM who underwent metabolic surgery between June 2022 and October 2024 were enrolled. Patients were divided into four groups based on their age and gender as follows: young (<35 years) men, young women, middle-aged (35-55 years) men and middle-aged women. Body mass index (BMI) data, glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) levels and gastrointestinal peptide hormone (e.g. glucagon- like peptide-1 (GLP-1), peptide YY (PYY) and ghrelin (GHRL)) levels, as well as Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale and Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D) scores, were collected preoperatively and at 1, 3 and 6 months postoperatively. Gastrointestinal peptide hormone levels were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and anxiety and depression statuses were assessed using online questionnaires. Data were analysed using repeated measures analysis of variance, paired t-tests, analysis of covariance and multiple linear regression, with adjustments for baseline BMI, diabetes duration and surgical type (laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy vs Roux-en-Y gastric bypass) where appropriate.Both BMI and HbA1c levels decreased significantly in all groups postoperatively, with a greater reduction observed in the younger groups compared with the middle-aged groups at the 6- month timepoint (adjusted p < 0.01). The percentage of total weight loss was lower in women than in men (mean difference: 2.8%, 95% confidence interval: 1.1-4.5, p = 0.03). Among gastrointestinal peptide hormones, GLP-1, PYY and cholecystokinin (CCK) significantly increased, whereas GHRL, insulin (INS) and leptin significantly decreased postoperatively. The increase in GLP-1 was more pronounced in the younger groups than in the middle-aged groups (r = -0.312, p < 0.05). Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale scores were negatively correlated with INS (r = -0.297, p < 0.05) and positively correlated with GHRL (r = 0.286, p < 0.05), whereas HAM-D scores were negatively correlated with CCK (r = -0.258, p < 0.05). Multivariate analysis revealed that younger age (β = -0.251, p = 0.004), female gender (β = 0.178, p = 0.041), and higher HAM-A scores (β = 0.327, p = 0.002) were independent factors influencing the significant changes observed in gastrointestinal hormone levels.Individualised treatment plans based on patient age, gender and psychological status should be developed in clinical practice, and lifestyle and psychological interventions should be developed further to improve surgical outcomes and maintain the long-term efficacy of metabolic surgery.Metabolic surgery is effective in patients with obesity with T2DM, with younger patients experiencing greater metabolic improvement.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42507268 is a review article
Temporomandibular disorders (TMD) pain is the most common orofacial pain with limited effective treatments. Here, we observed elevated lysophosphatidic acid (LPA), a bioactive lipid, in blood, trigeminal ganglion (TG), and peri-temporomandibular joint (TMJ) tissues in mouse models of TMD-like pain induced by TMJ inflammation or masseter muscle injury. Notably, LPA levels were also elevated in TMD patients' blood and positively correlated with their pain intensity. LPA receptors (LPAR) 1 and 3 were expressed in mouse and human TG neurons and upregulated in TMD-like pain models. Inhibition or knockout of LPAR1 or LPAR3 attenuated TMD-like pain, while LPA injection into the TMJ or masseter muscle evoked pain. Furthermore, we demonstrated that LPA/LPAR signaling upregulates and sensitizes PIEZO2, a mechanosensitive ion channel, in TG neurons via extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). Specific deletion or inhibition of PIEZO2 and suppression of ERK activation in TG neurons mitigated TMD-like pain. These findings suggest that LPA/LPAR signaling drives TMD-like pain via PIEZO2, offering potential therapeutic targets.
The Karan Fries (KF), a newly developed dairy cattle (Holstein Friesian × Tharparkar), after nine generations of inter se mating (mating among crossbreds) by maintaining a stable, composite breed structure, is expected to preserve some heterosis or hybrid vigour through the retention of heterozygosity and selective pressure for performance traits. Although a decline in productivity is generally seen from F1 to later inter se generations, the rate of loss of heterosis slows down, allowing the population to reach a new equilibrium. This seems to be an interesting proposition. Therefore, to assess the retained heterosis and to evaluate the current status of the KF population, the present study was conducted, which included a sizeable phenotyped and genotyped animals (n = 355). The analysis identified a stabilized genomic architecture with a mean exotic inheritance of 64.34 ± 0.74% (predominantly Holstein Friesian) and an indigenous contribution of 35.66 ± 0.95% (primarily Tharparkar). Genomic indicators of heterosis revealed a mean Genomic Retained Heterosis (RHg) of 59% which accounts for 15.82% of the total observed KF average yield (4153.14 ± 167.32 kg). Genomic Retained Heterozygosity (RHETg) of 0.44%. Notably, a near-perfect correlation (r = 0.98) was observed between these two metrics, indicating that RHETg can be used interchangeably with RHg to assess heterosis and its effects in instances where parental genotypic records were absent. Linear regression analysis demonstrated that RHg was a primary driver of productivity, with Total Milk Yield (TMY) increasing by 1113.81 ± 301.91 kg per unit increase in RHg (p < 0.001). The impact on TMY was significantly larger than on 305-day milk yield (339.08 ± 282.92 kg), suggesting that genomic heterosis specifically enhances lactation persistence and environmental robustness. A joint-model GWAS identified 182 SNPs with significant additive effects and 117 SNPs with significant dominance effects for TMY. Functional annotation revels candidate genes for milk synthesis (SLC25A1, PIP4K2A, LATS2), heat stress resilience (DNAJB5, DNAJC1), and immunological defence (ARHGAP15, LPAR3). Protein network analysis identified the Mitochondrial Ribosomal Protein (MRP) family, specifically hub gene MRPL22, as the central driving gene for both additive and dominance components. These findings confirm that KF cattle effectively leverage retained heterosis to integrate high production potential with robust tropical climatic adaptability.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
C5a, the most potent anaphylatoxin in the complement system, exerts its effects through the canonical G protein-coupled receptor C5aR1 and the arrestin-coupled receptor C5aR2. Despite the critical role of C5aR2 in immunomodulation, the molecular mechanisms underlying its biased signaling, ligand recognition, and associated pathophysiology remain poorly understood. Here, we report cryo-electron microscopy structures of β-arrestin 1-bound C5aR2 and C5aR1 stimulated by C5a or its metabolite C5adesArg. By combining structural analysis with functional assays, we identified the key structural determinants that prevent G protein coupling and confer intrinsic bias toward β-arrestins. Comparative analysis elucidated the distinct ligand recognition mechanism of C5aR2 and explained the retained affinity of C5adesArg for C5aR2. These findings guided the rational design of ZQ105, a highly selective C5aR2 agonist. Leveraging ZQ105 as a chemical probe, functional studies revealed that selective C5aR2 activation induces distinct pro-inflammatory responses and receptor internalization in neutrophils. This study provides novel structural insights into transducer engagement and ligand recognition by C5aR2, yielding a valuable pharmacological tool for exploring C5aR2-related pathophysiological processes.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Center for Excellence in Molecular Cell Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences.
Chronic exposure to ultraviolet B (UVB) radiation induces excessive reactive oxygen species (ROS) production in dermal fibroblasts, leading to cellular senescence and skin photoaging. Ageing skin is characterised by disruption of the immune microenvironment, including impaired macrophage polarisation and reduced M2 macrophage activity. However, the contribution of M2 macrophages to fibroblast photoaging remains incompletely understood. Here, we investigated whether M2 macrophages attenuate UVB-induced fibroblast senescence through ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase 2 (ENPP2)-dependent lysophosphatidic acid (LPA)signalling. UVB-induced L929 fibroblasts were treated with conditioned media derived from polarised RAW264.7 macrophages, with or without ENPP2 silencing. UVB exposure induced marked senescence, oxidative stress, and mitophagy impairment, whereas conditioned medium from M2 macrophages significantly alleviated these effects compared with M1-derived conditioned medium. Notably, ENPP2 depletion in M2 macrophages substantially reduced these protective effects. M2 macrophage-derived conditioned medium contained elevated LPA levels and restored UVB-suppressed LPAR1 and LPAR3 expression in fibroblasts. Pharmacological inhibition of LPAR1/3 attenuated the protective effects of M2 macrophages, while exogenous LPA supplementation restored these effects under ENPP2-deficient conditions. These changes were associated with enhanced PINK1/Parkin-related mitophagy signalling and reduced oxidative stress. Collectively, these findings identify M2 macrophage-derived ENPP2/LPA signalling as a critical paracrine mechanism that mitigates UVB-induced fibroblast photoaging.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) and non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) are among the most prevalent cancer types globally by incidence and mortality. Both types are influenced differentially by chronic inflammation. Central to this inflammation are inflammatory genes that are meticulously regulated by nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α). NF-κB is negatively regulated by IκBα (encoded by NFKBIA), while TNF-α's actions can be modulated by ghrelin (encoded by GHRL). We investigated four single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in NFKB1 (rs4648068), NFKBIA (rs2233406), TNF-α (rs1800629), and GHRL (rs1629816) as biomarkers for CRC and NHL risk in a cohort of Kuwaiti individuals. DNA samples from patients and controls were collected and genotyped for all SNPs, and their association with CRC or NHL risk was assessed. While rs4648068 showed a modest association with increased CRC risk, it had no significant impact on NHL risk. Conversely, rs2233406 increased NHL risk without affecting CRC risk. Interestingly, while rs1800629 showed a protective effect against NHL, it showed an increased risk for CRC. Finally, rs1629816 was associated with greater NHL but not CRC risk. Our findings suggests that variations of these inflammatory genes may be useful indicators for predicting cancer risk but might have unpredictable effects on cancer susceptibility, depending on the cancer type.
Transient receptor potential vanilloid 5 (TRPV5) is a calcium- and pH-sensitive ion channel. It plays a role in tumor biology and cellular calcium homeostasis. Due to the inverse pH gradient in solid tumors (extracellular acidosis and increased intracellular pH), TRPV5 is interesting as a signaling molecule in tumors, as the altered pH in the tumor microenvironment (TME) impacts tumor growth and metastasis. This is the first study to analyze the expression of TRPV5 in common skin cancers, i.e., basal cell carcinomas (BCC), squamous cell carcinomas (SCC), malignant melanomas (MM) and melanocytic nevi (MCN). The results showed a significantly lower expression of TRPV5 in BCC than in all other tumor entities analyzed. While less than half of the BCC were positive for TRPV5, SCC, MM, and MCN exhibited a high level of positive staining results. These results suggest that TRPV5 may especially help as a novel marker in the differentiation of SCC from BCC. The low expression of TRPV5 in BCC, a rarely metastatic tumor, may also point to a role of TRPV5 in the progression of epithelial skin tumors. Further functional studies, however, are needed to clarify the exact role of TRPV5 in skin tumors.
Endotoxemia represents a life-threatening clinical disorder driven by an aberrant host immune response to pathogenic infection, often resulting in severe multiple organ dysfunction. Among its most devastating complications are acute lung injury (ALI) and endotoxemia-associated encephalopathy (EAE), both of which are associated with elevated mortality and currently lack effective targeted interventions. This study evaluated the therapeutic efficacy and underlying molecular mechanisms of recombinant human thymosin β4 (rhTβ4) in a murine model of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced endotoxemia. Our results showed that treatment with rhTβ4 markedly enhanced survival rates and diminished the systemic overproduction of diverse proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines in endotoxemic mice. These systemic protective actions were achieved through the inhibition of the TLR4/NF-κB signaling cascade, the reduction in M1 macrophage polarization, and the simultaneous alleviation of mitochondrial impairment and oxidative stress. Moreover, rhTβ4 treatment significantly rescued EAE-related cognitive deficits and attenuated neuronal damage, primarily through the suppression of neuroinflammation and microglial overactivation. Integrative transcriptomic profiling and functional assays identified lysophosphatidic acid receptor 3 (LPAR3) as an important contributor, suggesting that rhTβ4 suppresses microglial-mediated neurotoxicity at least in part through LPAR3 downregulation. In conclusion, rhTβ4 confers robust multi-organ protection against endotoxemic injury by orchestrating the inhibition of systemic and central neuroinflammatory cascades, positioning it as a promising candidate for the treatment of endotoxemia-induced ALI and EAE.
Mutations in transmembrane channel-like protein 1 (TMC1), the pore-forming component of the mechano-electrical transducer (MET) channel in auditory hair cells, cause cell death and deafness in 3-wk old mice. We studied mice with mutations Tmc1 p.T416K, p.M412K, p.D528N, and p.D569N, which possessed functional MET channels at postnatal day (P)6 but became deaf before P21. These Tmc1 mutants had channels with reduced Ca2+ permeability and lower expression of the PMCA2 calcium pump in outer hair cell (OHC) stereocilia. The reduction in PMCA2 density was directly correlated with reduced Ca2+ entry via the MET channel. Over the first postnatal week, PMCA2 expression decreased in cochlear cultures containing lowered extracellular Ca2+, but after P11, PMCA2 density was insensitive to Ca2+ changes. The lower PMCA2 density in mutants was maintained into adulthood and may contribute to hair cell death. Before the onset of hearing, PMCA2 continuously turns over, and its insertion into stereocilia from an identified vesicular compartment is regulated by cytoplasmic [Ca2+]. PMCA2 turnover was strongly inhibited by the endocytosis blocker, Pitstop2, and by PtdIns(4,5)P2 blockers like phenylarsine oxide (PAO), which was shown to elevate stereociliary [Ca2+]. We argue the effects of PAO on mechanotransduction may be partly due to this Ca2+ increase. OHC bundles also expressed Neuroplastin (NPTN), a PMCA2 accessory protein, whose development paralleled PMCA2, and we propose it stabilizes the pump complex in stereocilia. NPTN expression was delayed about 2 d relative to PMCA2 and was less Ca2+ sensitive, implying it originates from a different internal pool of vesicles.
Cutaneous melanoma remains the most lethal skin cancer due to profound tumor heterogeneity and the frequent development of resistance to current therapies. Here, we identify the cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1 (CysLT1R) as a previously unrecognized driver of melanoma progression. Analysis of bulk RNA-sequencing datasets from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) revealed significantly elevated CysLT1R transcript in metastatic tumors compared to primary tumors. Functional studies in murine and human melanoma cells demonstrated that leukotriene D4 (LTD4)-mediated activation of CysLT1R promotes melanoma cell proliferation and invasion through the parallel engagement of YAP and ERK signaling pathways. Notably, melanoma cells express LTC4 synthase and secrete cysteinyl leukotrienes, establishing a constitutive autocrine signaling loop that sustains CysLT1R activity independently of the host niche. Genetic ablation or pharmacological inhibition of CysLT1R with MK571 significantly attenuated tumor growth in vivo and was associated with inhibition of the YAP-LOXL-2 signaling axis. In addition, studies using Cysltr1-/- mice reveal that host-derived CysLT1R signaling within the tumor microenvironment also contributes to melanoma progression. Together, these findings uncover a previously unrecognized pro-tumorigenic CysLT1R-ERK/YAP,LOXL-2 signaling circuit that promotes cutaneous melanoma progression and highlight CysLT1R as a potential therapeutic target for melanoma.© 2026. The Author(s).
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder with diverse molecular signatures that extend beyond the central nervous system. Peripheral blood serves as a minimally invasive source of transcriptomic biomarkers reflecting systemic inflammation, mitochondrial dysfunction, lysosomal impairment, and disrupted RNA processing-key pathways involved in PD. Long-read RNA sequencing with Oxford Nanopore Technologies (ONT) offers unprecedented detail of full-length transcripts, alternative isoforms, and RNA modifications, enabling more accurate detection of disease-related transcriptional changes. We conducted high-throughput ONT long-read RNA sequencing on blood samples from 145 individuals, including PD patients and age-matched healthy controls. RNA libraries were prepared using a cDNA-based protocol optimised for high-accuracy PromethION sequencing. Transcriptomes were quantified with ONT-specific pipelines, and analyses of differential gene expression (DGE), differential transcript expression (DEX), differential transcript usage (DTU), and alternative splicing were performed using ONT-aware tools such as DRIMSeq, DEXSeq, and stageR. Pathway enrichment linked disease-related changes to mitochondrial, lysosomal, and vesicle-trafficking pathways. Our analysis identified highly significant PD-associated transcriptional signatures in peripheral blood (SNCA, VPS13C, LRRK2, GRN, STAU1, NPTN, PARK7). Long-read sequencing uncovered extensive isoform-level dysregulation, including novel transcript variants (e.g., BCL2L2-PABPN1, SQSTM1) in pathways relevant to PD, such as autophagy and endolysosomal trafficking. DTU analyses revealed shifts in isoforms of LRRK2 and GBA1, indicating widespread disturbances in RNA processing. Enrichment analysis showed activation of molecular pathways linked to neurodegeneration. This study provides the largest long-read blood transcriptomic dataset in PD to date, demonstrating that ONT sequencing can resolve isoform-level changes and reveal systemic molecular signatures of PD. Our findings support the development of blood-based RNA biomarkers and the establishment of long-read transcriptomics as a transformative approach for genomic pathology in PD.Copyright © 2026 Koks, Muldmaa, Price, Whiley, Jakobson, Singleton, Howting, Pfaff, Chopra, Watson, Sikk and Taba.
Myeloid-driven inflammation contributes to resistance to immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) in solid tumors, partly through neutrophil-mediated immunosuppressive mechanisms. Experimental evidence suggests cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1 (CysLTR1) signaling promotes tumor-supportive myelopoiesis. We evaluated whether pharmacologic CysLTR1 blockade with montelukast could mitigate myeloid-mediated resistance to anti-PD-1 immunotherapy.A triangulated translational framework was applied using 3 independent data sets. First, CYSLTR1 and ELANE transcript expression were analyzed in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA; n=9907). Second, a propensity-matched emulated clinical trial was conducted in the Mount Sinai TriNetX network, comparing pembrolizumab plus montelukast versus pembrolizumab alone in advanced solid malignancies (n=70 per arm). Third, a negative-control analysis was performed in UK Biobank cancer patients (n=19,443) using multivariable Cox proportional hazards models.High concurrent CYSLTR1 and ELANE expression was associated with significantly poorer long-term survival in TCGA (P<0.0001). In TriNetX, concurrent montelukast exposure was associated with improved overall survival during pembrolizumab treatment (HR=0.505; 95% CI: 0.256-0.995; P=0.0441). In the UK Biobank, baseline neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio independently predicted mortality, but montelukast showed no survival interaction (P=0.957), supporting immunotherapy-specific rather than generalized oncologic benefit.CysLTR1 blockade with montelukast may represent a low-cost companion strategy to overcome myeloid-mediated ICI resistance. These findings support prospective validation of combined anti-PD-1 and anti-CysLTR1 therapy in advanced solid tumors.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
The cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1 (CysLTR1) is known as a potent lipid mediator with a well-established role in inflammatory regulation and lung disease. While its involvement in immune cell recruitment has been previously reported, its broader impact on pulmonary metabolism remains poorly understood.The study aims to investigate the metabolic consequences of a CysLTR1 deletion in mice to elucidate its role in pulmonary metabolic homeostasis.Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) was collected from CysLTR1 knockout (KO) and wild-type (WT) mice (n = 4 per group), and analysed using standardized untargeted gas chromatography-time-of-flight mass spectrometry (GC-TOFMS) metabolomics.Metabolomics analyses of the BALF collected from the CysLTR1 KO mice presented significantly reduced levels of glucose, glucosamine, and glyceric acid, indicating the role of the CysLTR in lung glucose uptake and consequently lung glycolysis and gluconeogenesis. This is further supported by reductions in myo-inositol and D-chiro-inositol, also supporting previous findings that this occurs due to insulin resistance. Consequential disruption of various glucose-dependent pathways, including the pentose phosphate pathway (reduced gluconic acid, sedoheptulose and xylose) and purine metabolism (reduced 1-methylinosine) indicates a consequential altered nucleotide turnover, and the significantly reduced concentrations of butanoic acid, decan-2-ol, and 1-hexadecanol, indicate changes to fatty acid metabolism in the lung, as a compensatory response to the initial glucose deficiency induced by the CysLTR1 KO. Lastly, the changes to mandelic acid, glutaric acid, tricarballylic acid, and decan-2-ol, furthermore, indicate the role of CysLTR1 in the composition/metabolism of the microbiome.This study expands our knowledge on the role of CysLTR1 beyond its role in immune regulation, which may contribute to a better understanding of CysLTR1 associated lung diseases and in the development of improved therapeutic strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Sevoflurane is a commonly applied inhalational general anesthetic, but its related neural injury is unavoidable. This study aimed to investigate the effects of transient receptor potential channel 5 (TRPC5) knockdown on sevoflurane-induced neural injury and its interaction with oxidative stress.HT-22 cells were transfected with siRNA to knockdown TRPC5 and then treated with sevoflurane. Afterward, H2O2 treatment was supplemented to induce oxidative stress. After treatment, cell viability, apoptosis rate, reactive oxygen species (ROS), malondialdehyde (MDA), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), superoxide dismutase (SOD), and p-ERK expression were detected.After sevoflurane treatment, apoptosis, ROS, MDA, and LDH increased, whereas cell viability and SOD activity decreased, suggesting that sevoflurane induced neural injury and oxidative stress; moreover, the expressions of TRPC5 and p-ERK increased after sevoflurane treatment. TRPC5 knockdown increased cell viability and the levels of ROS, MDA, and LDH, suggesting that it relieved sevoflurane-induced neural injury and oxidative stress. Afterward, H2O2 intervention decreased cell viability and SOD activity, but exacerbated apoptosis as well as levels of ROS, MDA, and LDH in cells under sevoflurane treatment; importantly, H2O2 intervention attenuated the effects of TRPC5 knockdown on the above six indices, indicating that oxidative stress might mediate the effects of TRPC5 knockdown on sevoflurane-induced neural injury. Moreover, TRPC5 knockdown downregulated the p-ERK expression, while H2O2 intervention upregulated it, in cells under sevoflurane treatment.TRPC5 knockdown may relieve sevoflurane-induced neural injury by suppressing oxidative stress, supporting its potential as a target for sevoflurane-induced neural injury, but further validation is still needed.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Royal Academy of Medicine in Ireland.
NPTN encodes human neuroplastin (hNp), a transmembrane immunoglobulin (Ig)-superfamily glycoprotein and a subunit of the plasma membrane calcium (Ca2+)-ATPases (PMCA). The critical importance of hNp and its associations with PMCA in the human brain remains unknown.Here, we describe de novo NPTN variants in individuals with autism and mild-to-severe DD/ID and evaluate their effects using animal models and in silico, molecular, and cellular approaches.Four individuals present variants affecting the two hNp isoforms, hNp55 and hNp65. Other four variants affect only the hNp65 isoform. Two individuals independently carry the same loss-of-function nonsense variant, predicted to cause haploinsufficient production of all hNp isoforms. Haploinsufficient Nptn+/- mice displayed reduced levels of Np and PMCA and exhibited altered social behavior. Insufficient Np55/65 production in neurons resulted in reduced PMCA expression and function. Two missense variants caused particular structural and thermodynamic abnormalities and lower expression of hNps in human embryonic kidney (HEK) cells. In primary neurons, these hNp variants failed to regulate cytosolic Ca2⁺ transients. In Drosophila, a missense mutation affecting the PMCA interaction failed to prevent the lethal phenotype caused by hNp ortholog elimination.We show that a novel neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by intellectual disability and autism originates from haploinsufficient NPTN gene dosage or insufficient functionality of mutant hNp related to PMCA hypofunction.© 2026. The Author(s).
Neuropathic pain is a major health problem and occurs after lesions and damage of the somatosensory nervous system. Clinically it remains poorly treatable despite extensive research efforts. Members of the transient receptor potential (TRP) superfamily, including TRPC5 and TRPV1, are key regulators of sensory perception and neuronal excitability. While TRPV1 is well known for its role in physiological and pathophysiological nociception, TRPC5 has been recently identified as a potential target in different pathological pain conditions. Here, we investigated the interaction between TRPC5 and TRPV1 in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) peripheral neurons from mice and in heterologous expression systems. Performing qPCR, we observed significantly upregulated TRPC5 mRNA expression in dorsal root ganglia following induction of oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathic pain (OIPN), but not in inflammatory or diabetic neuropathic pain models. Calcium imaging experiments showed that that Lysophosphatidylcholines (LPCs) and Hydroxyeicosatetraenoicacids (HETEs) act as endogenous TRPC5 modulators. Pharmacological inhibition of TRPC5 by HC070 reduced TRPV1 mediated calcium responses in transfected HEK293 cells and primary sensory neurons from DRGs without effecting TRPM8-or TRPA1-induced calcium responses. Moreover, HC070 prevented protein kinase C (PKC)- and A (PKA)-dependent sensitization of TRPV1 induced by bradykinin and 8-Bromo-cAMP. Finally, FLIM-FRET experiments confirmed a close physical interaction between TRPC5 and TRPV1. Overall, our findings suggest TRPC5 as a modulatory partner of TRPV1 and highlight its role in nociceptive signalling under pathological circumstances. Because of this TRPC5 inhibition may be an indirect and promising strategy for reducing TRPV1 exacerbated activity in pathological pain states.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Transcranial focused ultrasound (tFUS) enables non-invasive neuromodulation, yet its underlying molecular mechanisms remain largely elusive. Here, we show that transient receptor potential canonical 4 (TRPC4) and transient receptor potential canonical 5 (TRPC5) channels are critical mediators of tFUS-induced neuronal modulation in the mouse brain. Applying tFUS to the retrosplenial cortex (RSC) in male mice desensitizes mechanical and thermal sensitivity while robustly elicits early growth response 1 (Egr1) expression. Inhibiting these tFUS-induced Egr1 ensembles blocks the somatic sensory effects. Transcriptomic analysis identifies Trpc4 enrichment in tFUS-activated Egr1-positive cells. Both pharmacological inhibition and genetic knockdown of TRPC4 abolish tFUS-mediated sensory modulation. Targeted knockdown further demonstrates that the highly homologous TRPC5 plays a comparable role. In situ proximity ligation assay, co-immunoprecipitation, and live-cell calcium imaging confirm that TRPC4 and TRPC5 form a protein complex in the RSC that facilitates the tFUS response. These findings establish TRPC4/TRPC5 as essential molecular components for tFUS neuromodulation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hereditary hearing loss is highly genetically heterogeneous, with emerging overlap between genes implicated in early-onset and age-related hearing loss. We report a consanguineous family with autosomal recessive, non-syndromic hearing loss in which the proband harbors a homozygous splice-site variant in PALM3 NM_001145028.2:c.314+1G>A and a homozygous missense variant in OTOA NM_144672.4:c.1939G>C p.(Gly647Arg). A minigene assay for the PALM3 variant demonstrated aberrant splicing with exon skipping, resulting in either a frameshift or a large in-frame deletion, both consistent with loss of function and impacting all known transcripts. While the organ of Corti from 12-month-old heterozygous Palm3 mice showed preserved overall architecture, a study describing Palm3 knockout mice exhibit auditory dysfunction, supporting a possible auditory phenotype with loss of function. Although a dual molecular diagnosis cannot be excluded, the combined genetic, functional, and comparative data support PALM3 as a candidate gene potentially contributing to autosomal recessive hearing loss.© 2026. The Author(s).
Mugwort (Artemisia vulgaris) is a predominant aeroallergen for allergic rhinitis (AR) in northern China. However, the molecular changes linking local nasal mucosal inflammation with systemic alterations remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to explore the cross-level regulatory network in a mouse model of mugwort-induced AR by combining nasal mucosal transcriptomics and serum metabolomics.BALB/c mice were sensitized with mugwort extract and then challenged intranasally to establish an AR model. Nasal mucosal tissues were collected for RNA sequencing, and serum samples from the same cohort were subjected to non-targeted metabolomic analysis. Transcription factor (TF)-associated analysis, pathway enrichment analysis, and integrative multi-omics analysis were used to identify candidate regulatory factors and pathways involved in mugwort-induced allergic inflammation. Targeted validation of arginine-related changes was performed by measuring serum Arg1 and L-arginine levels, followed by ARG2 knockdown analysis in BEAS-2B epithelial cells after mugwort extract stimulation.Transcriptomic analysis revealed a clear Th2-type immune response in the model group, with significant upregulation of Il13, Arg1, Ccl24 and Il6. In addition, many downregulated genes were enriched in pathways related to ciliary function and epithelial differentiation, accompanied by suppression of structural genes such as Krt25 and Krt71. Gene set enrichment and TF-associated analyses further highlighted cytokine-mediated signaling and potential upstream regulators, including Fos, Batf, and Mafb. Serum metabolomics showed increased 1-methylhistamine and enrichment of arachidonic acid metabolism in mugwort-treated mice. Integrated analysis of the two omics datasets further pointed to arginine-related metabolism as a shared altered pathway. Consistently, targeted assays showed increased serum Arg1 levels and decreased serum L-arginine concentrations in the mugwort group. In BEAS-2B cells, ARG2 knockdown attenuated the induction of IL6 and CCL26 after mugwort extract stimulation.Together, our findings indicate that mugwort-induced AR is accompanied by coordinated local and systemic changes, including immune activation, epithelial/ciliary dysfunction, and serum metabolic remodeling. The arginine-related alterations supported by both omics analysis and targeted validation provide a potential link between nasal mucosal inflammation and systemic metabolic changes in mugwort allergy.© 2026 Chi, Chen, Jin, Sun and Xu.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42403151 is a review article
Hyperthermia is a well-documented adjunct to cancer therapy. Recently, it has begun to gain traction in the treatment of human papillomavirus (HPV)-driven pathologies. Microwaves offer a precise and targeted approach to deliver hyperthermia and are already in use in the clinic for the treatment of plantar and common warts: non-oncogenic HPV-driven cutaneous lesions.To determine if microwave-delivered hyperthermia may be applicable for the treatment of oncogenic HPV-positive anogenital mucosal lesions and to better understand the molecular mechanisms underlying microwave-delivered hyperthermia.Three-dimensional in vitro grown HPV16-infected epithelial tissues were subject to hyperthermia using microwave treatment. RNA sequencing was used to examine changes to the transcriptome following microwave treatment.Microwave treatment rapidly altered the transcriptome, with 59 genes differentially expressed at 4 h post-treatment. Of these genes, three were downregulated and 56 upregulated. At later time points post-treatment, 150 genes were differentially expressed, and all of these were upregulated. Microwave treatment triggered a heat shock response, with many chaperones and co-chaperones upregulated, which are important in preventing proteolysis following temperature rises. Significant upregulation of many of these genes has previously been reported in transcriptomic studies that used other methods of delivering hyperthermia. Microwave hyperthermia increased expression of genes involved in immune pathways, including interleukins (IL8, IL20, IL24), interferons (IFNĸ) and chemokines (CCL24, CCL26).The data have important implications for the recurrence of HPV-driven pathology following microwave treatment.
Prolonged stress in cancer patients is associated with an increased risk of metastasis and decreased survival, largely through its effects on the tumor microenvironment. Previous studies have indicated that SETD5 plays an important role in the aggressiveness of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), but its specific function in NSCLC under chronic stress remains largely unexplored. Here, we investigated whether SETD5 contributes to chronic stress-associated NSCLC stemness and M2-like macrophage polarization in association with ferroptosis-related phenotypes. The effects of SETD5 on NSCLC stemness and tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) were evaluated using Western blotting, qRT-PCR, sphere formation assays, immunohistochemistry, transmission electron microscopy, and lipid-ROS immunofluorescence staining. We employed both cell line-based in vitro models and in vivo xenograft mouse models to assess the involvement of SETD5 in stress-adaptive NSCLC progression and immune modulation. Chronic stress promoted NSCLC cell proliferation, migration, stemness, and a ferroptosis-resistant phenotype. SETD5 silencing significantly reduced colony formation, migration, cancer stemness marker expression, and sphere formation. In addition, SETD5 knockdown attenuated chronic stress-associated ferroptosis resistance, whereas ferroptosis inhibition partially restored stemness-related markers. In xenograft models, SETD5 silencing reduced subcutaneous tumor growth and lung metastasis under chronic stress conditions. Moreover, SETD5 downregulation reduced secretion of CC motif chemokine ligand 24 (CCL24) and attenuated an M2-like macrophage marker profile. Recombinant human CCL24 partially restored the impaired proliferation and migration of SETD5-knockdown lung cancer cells, attenuated ferroptosis-associated ultrastructural alterations in macrophages exposed to tumor-conditioned media, and reduced lipid-ROS accumulation under SETD5-silenced conditions during chronic stress. Clinically, analysis of NSCLC tissue microarrays revealed significant positive correlations among SETD5, ADRB2, CD206, and CCL24 expression. Elevated SETD5 expression was also significantly associated with advanced tumor stage, lymph node metastasis, and poorer overall survival in NSCLC patients. These findings identify SETD5 as a stress-adaptive factor associated with a ferroptosis-resistant, stem-like state in lung cancer cells and CCL24-related M2-like macrophage polarization under chronic stress.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Diabetes mellitus severely impairs wound healing, in part due to persistent inflammation, impaired angiogenesis, and dysregulated cellular responses. Sirtuin-1 (Sirt1), an NAD+-dependent deacetylase, has emerged as a promising therapeutic target for restoring regenerative capacity in diabetic wounds. However, effective and localized gene delivery remains a major challenge. Here, we report an injectable thermoresponsive poly(polyethylene glycol citrate-co-N-isopropylacrylamide) (PPCN) hydrogel as a localized delivery platform for lentiviruses encoding Sirt1 (LV-Sirt1) to promote sustained gene expression and tissue regeneration in diabetic full-thickness dermal wounds. Encapsulation of LV-Sirt1 within PPCN enabled in situ gelation and significantly accelerated wound closure compared with hydrogel or virus alone. Histological analyses revealed enhanced re-epithelialization, increased granulation tissue formation, and improved epidermal barrier restoration. Immunofluorescence staining demonstrated elevated fibroblast activity, reduced inflammatory response, and a facilitated polarization of macrophage from a pro-inflammatory M1 phenotype toward a regenerative M2 phenotype. Transcriptomic analysis further revealed that Sirt1 modulates key genes associated with immune regulation (Spp1, Ccl24, Ggt1), epithelial migration (Krt8), vascular stabilization (Aspn, Plscr4), and nerve regeneration (Nefm). Collectively, these results demonstrate that thermoresponsive PPCN hydrogels enable effective localized lentiviral gene delivery, and that sustained Sirt1 expression promotes angiogenesis, immune modulation, and tissue regeneration in diabetic wounds. This platform provides a promising strategy for controlled gene therapy in chronic wound management and other regenerative applications.© 2026 The Authors.
Asthma is a Th2-skewed inflammatory disorder characterized by eosinophilic infiltration, cytokine dysregulation, and airway remodeling. Emerging evidence highlights the role of immunometabolic pathways and the gut-lung axis in asthma pathogenesis.We investigate the therapeutic effects of Niudali (Millettia speciosa), a traditional Chinese medicinal herb, in an ovalbumin-induced mouse model of allergic asthma using high-resolution data-independent acquisition (DIA) lung proteomics integrated with cytokine profiling.Niudali treatment significantly alleviated airway inflammation and eosinophilic infiltration. Proteomic analysis revealed 179 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), with a notable finding that CCL24, a key eosinophil-recruiting chemokine, was completely suppressed in Niudali-treated mice but highly expressed in the asthma model. This highlights the central role of CCL24 inhibition in the mechanism through which Niudali mitigates eosinophil-mediated inflammation.Functional enrichment analyses revealed that Niudali modulates pathways involved in complement and coagulation cascades, lipid transport, antioxidant defense, and PPAR signaling, reflecting a shift toward immune resolution and metabolic homeostasis. Network analysis identified key hub proteins, including Alb, Apoe, Apoa1, Proc, and Serpina7, which orchestrate lipid metabolism, antioxidant functions, and immune regulation. The modulation of serpins, apolipoproteins, and extracellular space-related proteins suggests a broad immunometabolic reprogramming effect. Notably, this molecular signature aligns with the gut-lung axis paradigm, potentially reflecting microbiota-mediated modulation via short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs). Consistent with proteomic findings, bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) analyses showed significant reductions in IgE, IL-4, IL-5, and IL-6, further confirming suppression of Th2-mediated inflammation.study provides proteomic evidence that Niudali treats asthma by disrupting the CCL24-eosinophil axis and rebalancing immunometabolic networks. These findings support Niudali as a promising candidate for gut-lung axis-targeted interventions in asthma and provide a systems-level framework for future microbiome metabolome integrated studies. While our findings suggest a potential link between these molecular changes and the gut-lung axis, this mechanism was not directly investigated in the present study and should therefore be considered hypothetical. Future studies incorporating microbiome and metabolomic analyses will be essential to clarify the role of gut-derived metabolites, including SCFAs, in mediating these effects.© 2026 Yang, Wu, Liang, Zan, Chen, Yuan, Chen and Huang.
Uveal melanoma (UVM) is a highly malignant ocular tumor with a poor prognosis. Macrophages and monocytes in the tumor microenvironment promote immune escape, angiogenesis, and metastasis. Thus, exploring their roles may provide insights into UVM progression.The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) was accessed to obtain the data of mRNA expression and follow-up data of UVM, and UVM single-cell profiles were downloaded to cluster cells by annotation of single-cell marker genes. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in macrophage/monocyte cells compared to other cell types were revealed. ssGSEA was applied to compute the score of DEGs and to reveal the genes for WGCNA in UVM. A prognostic risk model for UVM was constructed by uni/multivariate Cox and LASSO regression analyses to reveal the differential overall survival status. Further cellular validations were conducted to examine the effects of core genes in UVM. TIMER tool was applied for the analysis of immune cell infiltration levels in UVM. Chemotherapeutic drug sensitivity in UVM was assessed with the pRRophetic package.Six cell subpopulations were identified in the UVM samples, among which macrophage/monocyte cells were more predominant. Kaplan-Meier curves showed that UVM patients in the group of high RiskScore (consisting of the genes BTBD6, C2CD4B, CCL24, and S100A4) presented a poorer prognosis, higher infiltration of monocytic lineage, T cells, CD8 T cells, cytotoxic lymphocytes, and higher expression of immune checkpoint-related genes. A significant negative correlation between RiskScore and the IC50 of XMD8-85, lapatinib, roscovitine, salubrinal, bexarotene, LFM-A13, FTI-277, and TGX221 chemotherapeutic agents was further noticed.In this study, we computationally identified genes associated with both disease progression and macrophage/monocyte-related characteristics in UVM and constructed a prognostic risk model with predicted immune infiltration patterns. These findings generate testable hypotheses that may inform future experimental studies on the immune mechanisms underlying UVM.Copyright © 2026 Yuhui Yu et al. Human Mutation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
In the tumor microenvironment, immune, stromal and cancer cells interact. They communicate in paracrine and autocrine manners via secreted cytokines, altering anti-tumor immunity. The pattern consisting of the relative secretions of these proteins is referred-to as the "immune secretome". To date, the immune secretome of human cancers remains largely unexplored. Herein, we describe the dominant cytokines released by human tumors.We analyzed multiple prospectively collected samples of tumoral and peritumoral tissues. After surgical resection, we promptly titered 40 cytokines released by the samples.Macrophage migration Inhibitory Factor (MIF), Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 21 (CCL21) and Interleukin 16 (IL-16) were the most strongly detected cytokines in the human tumor secretome. Surprisingly, GM-CSF, IL-10 and IL-2 were undetectable or measured at low levels. Moreover, we observed significant differences in cytokine secretions across different tumor histotypes: while liver metastases, head and neck carcinomas and thyroid tumors secreted large amounts of cytokines (103-105 pg/ gram of tissue across most analytes), the other histotypes secreted at least 10-100 times less of each cytokine per gram of tissue. The liver metastases secreted particularly high amounts of CCL21, IL-16, CXCL10, CCL24 and CCL15, but had low CD45 + cell infiltrates compared to primary tumors. We also found that tumor tissues secreted significantly higher quantities of CXCL1 and CXCL9 than surrounding healthy tissues.Tumor histology is not associated with a specific secretome, but subgroups of patients share similar secretome profiles independently from their cancer type. This finding supports the development of biology-oriented tumor-agnostic immunotherapy strategies. As the secretome interacts with tumor-infiltrating T-cells, the cytokines identified within it become potential therapeutic targets for personalized cancer immunotherapy.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Sarcoidosis is a chronic granulomatous disease marked by persistent inflammation and immune cell aggregation, yet its molecular underpinnings remain incompletely understood, hindering the development of effective targeted therapies. Here, we report that deletion of Tsc1 or Tsc2 in mice using a Fsp1-Cre leads to spontaneous formation of sarcoid-like granulomas, driven by hyperactivation of the mTORC1 pathway in fibroblasts and interstitial macrophages. Through inflammatory cytokine/chemokine array, we identified CCL24, a chemokine ligand for CCR3, as a key immunoregulatory molecule downregulated in both our murine model and sarcoid cohort plasma. Mechanistically, mTORC1 suppresses CCL24 expression via aberrant STAT3 signaling in fibroblasts and promotes CCR3 expression in interstitial macrophages, uncovering a novel regulatory axis in granuloma formation and maintenance. Pharmacological inhibition using rapamycin and azithromycin markedly attenuated granuloma burden and normalized CCL24-CCR3 signaling, underscoring the therapeutic relevance of this axis. Together, our study establishes a mechanistic link between mTORC1 activation, CCL24-CCR3 dysregulation, and granuloma persistence, offering not only a new insight into molecular mechanisms in sarcoidosis, but also identifying promising targets for clinical intervention.
To establish a doxorubicin (DOX)-resistant acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cell line and explore the mechanisms of its drug resistance.A DOX-resistant THP1 cell line (THP1-Rdox) was established using a low-dose, concentration-gradient intermittent induction method. The resistance effect was evaluated by calculating the resistance index (RI). The expression levels of resistance-related proteins ［P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and lung resistance-related protein (LRP)］ and cell cycle-related proteins (Cyclin A2, Cyclin B1 and Cyclin D1) were examined by Western blot. Intracellular DOX accumulation was observed using confocal laser scanning microscopy. Apoptosis rate and cell cycle distribution were analyzed by flow cytometry. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) was performed to compare the differential gene expression profiles between DOX-sensitive parental THP1 cells and DOX-resistant THP1-Rdox cells.The DOX-resistant cell line THP1-Rdox was successfully established. The THP1-Rdox cells could stably proliferate at a DOX concentration of 500 ng/ml with a resistance index as high as 198.7. The THP1-Rdox cells exhibited cross-resistance to homoharringtonine (HHT) and paclitaxel (PTX) but no significant resistance to cytarabine (Ara-C). Compared with parental THP1 cells, the expression levels of drug resistance-related proteins P-gp and LRP in THP1-Rdox cells were significantly upregulated. Additionally, THP1-Rdox cells showed decreased uptake and increased efflux of DOX. Notably, after treatment with verapamil (Ver), a specific inhibitor of P-gp, intracellular DOX accumulation was significantly increased in THP1-Rdox cells. Compared with parental THP1 cells, the THP1-Rdox cells exhibited a significantly decreased apoptosis rate, a reduced proportion of cells in the S phase, an increased proportion of cells in the G1 phase, and a marked upregulation in the expression level of the cell cycle regulatory protein Cyclin D1. RNA-seq analysis showed that among the differentially expressed genes between THP1-Rdox and parental THP1 cells, the top 10 most significantly upregulated genes in THP1-Rdox cells were ABCB1, HNRNPA1P9, SEMA3E, MICB, JAML, FGL2, VSIG1, CLEC1B, DLGAP1-AS3, and HOOK1; the top 10 most significantly downregulated genes were MAGEB2, NPTX2, CGREF1, CDO1, GBP5, ZNF595, ZNF630, DTX3, KLHL4 and ZBED6CL.Low-dose, concentration-gradient intermittent induction method can successfully establish a DOX-resistant AML cell line, THP1-Rdox. The drug resistance of this cell line is likely attributed to enhanced drug efflux mediated by the elevated expression of P-gp and LRP, as well as cell cycle dysregulation resulting from the upregulation of Cyclin D1 protein.
Macrophage-associated responses at sites of nerve injury are involved in the initiation and persistence of neuropathic pain (NP). Immune semaphorins (SEMAs), including SEMA3A, SEMA3E, SEMA4A, SEMA4D, and SEMA7A, regulate macrophage migration and activation, but their roles in NP remain unclear. This study aimed to identify immune SEMAs associated with NP by analyzing their serum levels and expression in sensory nerve tissues of patients with NP, and to evaluate the potential effects of SEMA-targeted intervention in a mouse model.Serum SEMA levels were measured in 45 patients with NP and 17 age- and sex-matched healthy controls (HCs) using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Using immunohistochemistry, SEMA expression was examined in the peripheral nerves (PNs) and dorsal root ganglia (DRG) from seven autopsied/biopsied patients (four with and three without NP), and in male ICR mice with partial sciatic nerve ligation (PSNL). Additionally, we intraperitoneally injected SEMA-blocking immunoglobulin G (IgG) or control IgG into PSNL-operated mice for 5 consecutive days, either immediately after PSNL (preventive protocol) or from day 14 (therapeutic protocol). Mechanical hypersensitivity was assessed using von Frey filaments. In vitro, mouse DRG neurons treated with or without SEMA3E were analyzed for neurite outgrowth and gene expression.Serum SEMA3E levels tended to be higher in patients with NP than in HCs, although this difference did not remain significant after correction for multiple comparisons. SEMA3E immunoreactivity appeared to be increased in macrophages in both PNs and the DRG, and was also observed in satellite glial cells in the DRG of patients with NP. Similarly, SEMA3E upregulation was observed in macrophages in the injured PNs of PSNL-operated mice. Administration of SEMA3E-blocking IgG was associated with reduced macrophage-associated signals in PNs and attenuated hypersensitivity in PSNL-operated mice under both treatment protocols. In vitro, SEMA3E was associated with reduced neurite outgrowth in mouse DRG neurons.SEMA3E expression appears to be increased at sites of nerve injury in both patients with NP and a mouse model of NP. Experimental findings from the mouse model suggest that SEMA3E may be associated with pain-related hypersensitivity. SEMA3E blockade might represent a potential therapeutic approach for NP.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) diet reduces blood pressure and cholesterol. However, the mechanisms underlying these effects are unclear, and no randomized studies have evaluated the long-term benefits on health outcomes such as coronary artery disease (CAD) or type 2 diabetes (T2D). We performed a series of Mendelian randomization analyses of 71 serum proteins perturbed by the DASH diet in previous randomized controlled feeding studies to understand their potential mechanistic role on health outcomes. Four proteins (ANGPTL3, INHBC, PCOLCE, PLXNB2) had causal evidence of beneficial effects on risk factors that aligned with diet-induced changes in protein levels. Missense variants in INHBC and PLXNB were associated with lower risks of CAD and T2D respectively, and these effects are directionally concordant with DASH diet-induced changes in protein levels, providing causal evidence that these proteins influence disease risk. Combining molecular phenotyping in randomized interventional studies with human genetics evidence identified molecular regulators of the long-term cardioprotective effects of the DASH diet.
Sepsis is a life-threatening systemic inflammation marked by an initial hyperinflammatory phase. Tregs are pivotal in tempering this early immune response. Semaphorins, originally neuronal guidance cues, have emerged as immune modulators. Notably, Sema3E influences dendritic cell and T cell responses, but its role in Treg-mediated regulation during endotoxemia is unclear. WT and Sema3e-/- mice were subjected to LPS-induced endotoxemia. Treg frequencies, proliferation and migration were assessed by flow cytometry and Transwell assays, respectively. Serum cytokines (eg IL-10) were quantified using ELISA. A TNFRSF25 agonist was administered to expand Tregs in vivo, and adoptive transfers of WT or Sema3e-/- Tregs were performed. Clinical scores and survival were recorded. Sema3e-/- mice exhibited significantly impaired Treg expansion and proliferation, altered migratory patterns with reduced Treg accumulation in spleen and lymph nodes, and consequently lower serum cytokine levels (eg IFN-γ) compared to WT, correlating with exacerbated disease severity. DR3-mediated Treg expansion in Sema3e-/- mice did not improve their clinical outcomes. Furthermore, adoptively transferred Sema3e-/- Tregs failed to confer protection in endotoxemic recipients, unlike WT Tregs. Sema3E is essential for optimal Treg responses and immune regulation during severe LPS-induced inflammation. Its absence compromises Treg expansion, localization, and function, worsening sepsis outcomes. These findings highlight Sema3E as a critical component of Treg-mediated immunosuppression and a potential therapeutic target for improving immune homeostasis in sepsis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0350102.].Copyright: © 2026 Chen et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Airway epithelial cells (AEC) are the primary sources of Semaphorin3E (Sema3E) in human airways and its expression is downregulated in severe asthmatics, underscoring the AEC-derived Sema3E critical role in lung homeostasis. Here, we investigated the effects of AEC-derived Sema3E on immune responses in an acute house dust mite (HDM) asthma model. Transgenic Sema3E overexpression in AECs, using tamoxifen-inducible Scgb1a1Cre, did not alter lung neutrophils, eosinophils, macrophages, dendritic cells, B cells, and CD4 T-cell number and BALF cytokine levels. However, it significantly increased lung Foxp3+ Treg cell number and proliferation. To assess the role of Sema3E-plexinD1 signaling in Foxp-3 cells, cell-specific Foxp3-PLXND1 knockout (KO) mice were subjected to HDM exposure. These mice exhibited reduced Foxp3+ Treg cell numbers in the lungs, spleen, and mediastinal lymph nodes, accompanied by increased lung eosinophil infiltration, elevated IFN-γ+ CD4+ T cells in the spleen, and higher BALF levels of IL-17, IL-5, and CXCL8. Foxp3 PLXND1 deficiency also enhanced the number of T follicular helper cells, germinal center B cells, and IgG1/IgE antibodies in sera. Additionally, Muc5AC gene expression and goblet cell hyperplasia were elevated in Foxp3PLXND1 KO mice. These findings highlight the Sema3E-plexinD1 axis as a key regulator of Treg cell-mediated immune homeostasis, suggesting its therapeutic potential in asthma.© 2026 The Author(s). The FASEB Journal published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
A role for the trafficking receptor SORLA (Sortilin-related receptor containing LDLR class A repeats) in reducing Aβ levels has been well established; however, relatively little is known with respect to whether and how SORLA can potentially affect tau pathology in vivo. Here, we show that transgenic SORLA up-regulation (SORLA TG) can attenuate pathological effects in aged PS19 (P301S tau) mouse brain, including tau phosphorylation and seeding, ventricle dilation, synapse loss, long-term potentiation (LTP) impairment, and glial hyperactivation. Proteomic analysis indicates attenuation of PS19 profiles in PS19/SORLA TG hippocampus, including pathological changes in synapse-related proteins and key drivers of synaptic dysfunction such as ApoE and C1q. Single-nucleus RNA sequencing analysis reveals suppression of PS19 signatures with SORLA up-regulation and identifies a previously unrecognized involvement of Sema4D-PlexinB1/B2 signaling in glial pathology. In contrast, SORLA deletion exacerbates tau seeding and aggregation, glial hyperactivation, and PlxnB1/B2 induction in PS19 hippocampus. These results indicate that SORLA confers neuroprotection against tau toxicity in the PS19 mouse brain.
Telomeres play a crucial role in chromosomal stability and cancer development. However, the prognostic significance of telomere-related genes (TRGs) in colon adenocarcinoma (COAD) remains unexplored. In this study, we aimed to establish a TRG-based prognostic model for COAD, explore its association with the tumor immune microenvironment and drug sensitivity, and offer new therapeutic targets.RNA sequencing (RNA‑Seq) data of COAD with corresponding patient survival data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), and TRGs from TelNet were used. A prognostic model was created by univariate/multivariate Cox regression analyses. Meanwhile, a nomogram was created for overall survival (OS) prediction. In addition, immune microenvironment [Cell‑type Identification By Estimating Relative Subsets Of RNA Transcripts (CIBERSORT), Tumor Immune Dysfunction and Exclusion (TIDE), single‑sample Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (ssGSEA), and immune checkpoint gene analysis] and drug sensitivity [half‑maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50)] analyses were performed.This identified six key TRGs (USP2, TRIM7, EPHA6, IP6K3, CALML6, and COCH) significantly associated with patient outcome. A nomogram incorporating these genes demonstrated robust predictive ability for OS, with areas under the curve (AUCs) of 0.746, 0.750, and 0.726 for 1-, 2-, and 3-year OS, respectively. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) functional enrichment analyses revealed that these genes were involved in cancer‑related pathways. Furthermore, distinct immune infiltration patterns, characterized by significant negative correlations between risk scores and activated CD8+ T cells as well as Memory B cells, were observed between high- and low-risk patient groups. Dasatinib, docetaxel, erlotinib, and gefitinib were identified as potential therapeutic candidates for high-risk patients. Finally, the differential expression of EPHA6 between COAD and normal tissues was validated by immunohistochemical (IHC) staining and Western blotting.Our findings establish TRGs as critical genetic determinants and powerful predictors of COAD prognosis, offering insights into potential therapeutic targets.© AME Publishing Company.
Ovarian cancer is characterized by an immunosuppressive "cold" tumor microenvironment, which poses a major challenge to effective therapy. Inducing immunogenic cell death through PANoptosis represents a promising strategy for remodeling the tumor microenvironment. Z-DNA binding protein 1 (ZBP1), an interferon (IFN)-stimulated gene, is a key sensor of Z-conformation nucleic acids (Z-NA) driving PANoptosis. While ZBP1 upregulation is traditionally attributed to transcriptional induction, its early non-transcriptional regulatory mechanisms remain elusive.ZBP1 expression and its prognostic value were analyzed using public databases and clinical cohorts. APEX2 proximity labeling, PLA and Co-IP identified the E3 ubiquitin ligase regulating ZBP1. The IFN-mediated ZBP1 post-translational modification pathway was delineated utilizing PLA, Co-IP, in vitro phosphorylation, mutagenesis assays, an intestine-specific conditional knockout model. DCAF1-/- ovarian cancer cells and immunocompetent ID8 peritoneal models were generated to evaluate tumor growth and cell death. The therapeutic efficacy of combining the DCAF1 inhibitor (B32B3) with the Z-NA inducer (CBL0137) was assessed in an immunocompetent ID8 murine peritoneal tumor model and two chemoresistant patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models.ZBP1 is significantly downregulated in ovarian cancer, whereas its elevated expression predicts a favorable prognosis and correlates with high IFN responsiveness. Type I IFN triggers a rapid accumulation of ZBP1 protein prior to its transcriptional upregulation. Mechanistically, we identified the E3 ligase substrate receptor DCAF1 as a negative regulator that targets ZBP1 for proteasomal degradation. Interferon signaling activates the kinase DAPK3, which phosphorylates DCAF1 at S1328. This phosphorylation event compromises the assembly of the CRL4DCAF1 complex, thereby abrogating DCAF1-mediated degradation of ZBP1. In ovarian cancer models, genetic ablation of DCAF1 restored ZBP1 levels and significantly restrained tumor progression. Therapeutically, combining B32B3 with CBL0137 elevated intracellular Z-NA and stabilized ZBP1, driving PANoptosis and suppressing ovarian tumor growth across.Our study identifies the IFN-DAPK3-DCAF1 pathway as a critical post-translational mechanism that ensures rapid ZBP1 stabilization. This highlights a fundamental strategy to bypass transcriptional latency for the rapid activation of immune responses, offering a strong clinical rationale to harness this pathway to induce ZBP1-dependent PANoptosis for the treatment of refractory tumors.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42346074 is a review article
Early-life maternal high-saturated fat (HSF) exposure increases offspring susceptibility to type 2 diabetes, but mechanisms linking it to β-cell dysfunction remain poorly defined. This study aimed to identify key miRNAs mediating this programming and evaluate their therapeutic potential. Female mice were fed control, high-lard, or high-palm oil diets during gestation and lactation. Islets from adult male offspring were isolated for miRNA sequencing to identify candidates. β-cell-specific overexpression of miR-1a-3p was achieved via AAV8-Ins1 vector. Proteomics analysis was performed to screen its downstream targets. miR-1a-3p was the only miRNA showing interactive effects between maternal and offspring diets. It was upregulated in male offspring islets, further exacerbated by late-adulthood HFD re-exposure. Functionally, miR-1a-3p overexpression increased fasting glucose, impaired glucose and insulin tolerance, reduced ATP production and mitochondrial membrane potential, without affecting apoptosis. NBR1 was confirmed as a direct target of miR-1a-3p. NBR1 silencing mimicked miR-1a-3p's detrimental effects on β-cell mitochondria and function. Inhibition of miR-1a-3p alleviated HFD-induced β-cell dysfunction. miR-1a-3p mediates β-cell dysfunction programmed by early-life maternal HSF exposure through targeting NBR1 and disrupting mitochondrial function, representing a potential therapeutic strategy for preventing type 2 diabetes transmission.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study examined the influence of controlled temperature-time conditions on early biochemical deterioration of palm oil extracted from intact fruits. A broad thermal matrix (25-95 °C; 1-48 h) was applied to quantify changes in extractable oil recovery, free fatty acids, iodine value, carotenoids, conjugated dienes, conjugated trienes, fatty acid composition, and FTIR spectral characteristics. Increasing temperature and duration significantly reduced measured free fatty acid levels and decreased the calculated iodine value, while inducing predictable oxidation and relative changes in fatty acid composition. FTIR spectra indicated preservation of the triacylglycerol backbone, with gradual intensity changes consistent with mild thermoxidative modification. FTIR-PLSR models demonstrated analyte-dependent predictive performance, with the strongest prediction observed for extractable oil recovery (Q2 = 0.727; RPD = 1.94) and moderate predictive capability for free fatty acids (Q2 = 0.577; RPD = 1.56), while iodine value, carotenoids, conjugated dienes, and conjugated trienes showed limited predictive performance. These findings provide insight into thermal degradation pathways and suggest the potential of FTIR-PLSR as a rapid screening approach for evaluating the quality of extracted palm oil during post-harvest handling.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Oil palm (Elaeis guineensis Jacq.) is the world's leading vegetable oil crop in terms of oil production, with about 23 million ha of plantations. Maintenance of such a considerable surface area requires replanting of millions oil palm seedlings each year. Yet, producing oil palm germinated seeds remains slow and difficult, due to morphological and physical dormancies. Different techniques are being used to improve germination rates, amongst which the dry heat treatment is the most popular. However, the germination rate remains variable and depends on palm crosses, environmental conditions and most importantly, seed storage duration. To better understand biochemical events in germination and how seed ageing affects them, we conducted a metabolomics analysis of oil palm seeds during germination, using NMR and GC-MS techniques. We characterized metabolic changes in different tissues (embryo, endosperm, and haustorium) at several germination stages (from day 0 to 116), using seeds stored for either 4 or 16 months. As expected, germination was associated with early protein remobilization, sugar interconversions, stored lipid remobilization and biosyntheses to support early heterotrophic growth. Multivariate analyses show that metabolic trajectories were strongly influenced by both time (development stage) and storage duration. Storage duration affected lipid and protein metabolism differentially in embryo and endosperm. Furthermore, seeds that did not germinate also had tissue-specific metabolic patterns depending on whether they were stored for 4 or 16 months, suggesting that metabolic bottlenecks responsible for the developmental arrest changed with storage duration.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
This study evaluated the effects of pelleting and β-mannanase supplementation on nutrient digestibility and metabolizable energy of four alternative feed ingredients distillers dried grains with solubles (DDGS), copra meal, palm kernel meal (PKM), and jatropha meal (JM) using precision-fed Single Comb White Leghorn roosters. Two independent precision-fed rooster assays were conducted. In Experiment 1, each ingredient was offered in mash form or as pellets produced under controlled conditions (<65 °C) to minimize heat-induced nutrient damage. In Experiment 2, mash samples were supplemented with β-mannanase (0.25% as-fed basis). Apparent dry matter digestibility, nitrogen retention, and metabolizable energy values, including apparent metabolizable energy (AME), nitrogen-corrected AME (AMEn), true metabolizable energy (TME), and nitrogen-corrected TME (TMEn), were determined. Pelleting improved dry matter digestibility, nitrogen retention, and all metabolizable energy parameters across ingredients (p < 0.05), with more pronounced responses observed in DDGS and jatropha meal. β-mannanase supplementation also enhanced nutrient utilization and energy utilization, particularly in copra meal and palm kernel meal, which are rich in β-mannan-containing non-starch polysaccharides. Overall, the results demonstrate that both pelleting and β-mannanase supplementation can improve the nutritional value of fibrous alternative feed ingredients, thereby supporting their more efficient use in poultry diets.Copyright: © 2026 Keohavong et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565029 is a review article
The study aimed to develop polymeric films incorporating açaí oil for potential applications in food packaging, analyzing physicochemical, mechanical, and antifungal properties. The açaí palm tree, native to the Amazon region, is recognized for its oil rich in bioactive compounds, with beneficial health properties, including antimicrobial and antifungal activity. The preparation process involved dissolving sodium alginate in distilled water, mixing with açaí oil, adding glycerol and dihydrate calcium chloride, followed by solution deposition onto Petri dishes and drying in an oven. The films were evaluated for continuity, homogeneity, transparency, flexibility, moisture content, solubility, thickness, and water vapor permeability. Results indicated that the formulated films were suitable, with good continuity, homogeneity, and flexibility. Moisture content varied between 10.59% and 44.01%, correlating with glycerol concentration. Water solubility ranged from 4.89% to 52.94%, with positive quadratic effects of alginate concentration and linear effects of glycerol and açaí oil concentration. Higher glycerol concentrations increased moisture content, while higher açaí oil concentrations resulted in lower moisture content. Four formulations exhibited good antifungal parameters against the Curvularia fungus. In summary, polymeric films incorporated with açaí oil showed promise for applications in food packaging, with suitable physicochemical properties and antifungal action influenced by component concentration.
Integrating multiple waste streams into high-value energy carriers represents an important strategy for advancing circular economy principles. This study investigates the synergistic co-hydrothermal carbonization (co-HTC) of oil palm empty fruit bunches (EFB) using two chemically distinct waste-derived reactive media: OH-active bilimbi juice and N-functionalizing tofu wastewater. HTC was conducted at 180 and 210 °C to elucidate how the chemistry of these liquid wastes governs hydrochar evolution and energy recovery. Physicochemical characterization (SEM-EDX, BET, FTIR), thermogravimetric combustion analysis, and molecular modeling (HyperChem) were employed to reveal the underlying transformation mechanisms. The results demonstrated that the OH-active medium, rich in organic acids, promoted catalytic dehydration, decarboxylation, and carbon densification, resulting in hydrochars with enhanced thermal stability and combustion characteristics approaching those of sub-bituminous coal. In contrast, the amino acid-rich tofu wastewater facilitated in situ nitrogen incorporation and secondary char formation, yielding hydrochars with superior combustion reactivity and the highest higher heating value of 24.18 MJ kg-1. The highest energy densification ratio (1.43) and energy yield (103.01%) obtained for TR180 further indicate a synergistic transfer of energy-rich compounds from the liquid phase to the hydrochar matrix during co-HTC. Molecular analysis revealed that nitrogen functionalization reduced the HOMO-LUMO energy gap, thereby enhancing electronic reactivity and combustion performance, whereas acidic media favored the formation of more condensed aromatic structures with improved thermal resistance. These findings demonstrate that waste-derived reactive media can serve not only as process water substitutes but also as active chemical agents for selectively engineering hydrochar properties toward either stability or reactivity-oriented solid fuels. The proposed approach offers a sustainable pathway for the simultaneous valorization of agricultural residues and food-processing effluents.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
This study reports the optimization of a heterogeneous green catalyst derived from banana pseudostem ash (BPSA) of Musa paradisiaca var. Awak for biodiesel synthesis from crude palm oil (CPO). The catalyst was prepared by calcination at 600, 700, and 800 °C, characterized using standard analytical techniques, and applied in transesterification. Process optimization examined methanol to oil molar ratio (1:4-1:12), catalyst loading, and reaction time. Excess molar ratio (>1:6) reduced yield due to phase separation and limited catalyst-reactant contact. Optimal conditions 2 wt% catalyst, 1:6 oil to methanol ratio, and 120 min gave a maximum FAME yield of 99.84 wt%. GC MS identified major components as methyl oleate (59.48%), methyl palmitate (29.65%), methyl stearate (6.90%), methyl linoleate (2.27%), and methyl myristate (1.70%). The biodiesel showed density 866 kg m⁻³, kinematic viscosity 3.26 cSt, and cetane number 63.6, meeting SNI 7182:2015 and ASTM D6751 standards. BPSA from Musa paradisiaca var. Awak proves a promising, sustainable, and cost effective heterogeneous catalyst for green biodiesel production from CPO. • Musa paradisiaca var. Awak • Method for preparation and characterizing of Green Catalysts •Optimization and sustainability.© 2026 The Authors.
With the globalization of human activities, invasions of non-native organisms into new habitats have increased. The masked palm civet (Paguma larvata) is an invasive alien species in Japan, with previous mitochondrial DNA studies indicating that Taiwan might be the source of the Japanese population. In addition, nuclear microsatellite data have shown a large genetic difference between the populations on Honshu and Shikoku islands. To further clarify the migration and expansion histories of this species, we analyzed the population genetics of P. larvata in Japan and Taiwan by using genome-wide SNP (single nucleotide polymorphism) data generated through ddRAD-seq. We found the previously unstudied population in western Honshu to be genetically closely related to that in central Honshu, with low genetic diversity due to a recent range expansion. The populations in Japan were genetically differentiated among Shikoku, western and central Honshu, and eastern Honshu. By admixture analysis, the Honshu and Shikoku populations showed affinity with one or two of them. Overall, the genetic diversity in Japan was lower than that in Taiwan, suggesting a founder effect during introduction from Taiwan. Within Japan, relatively higher variation in the eastern Honshu (especially Gunma Prefecture) populations indicated multiple introductions and/or different genetic lineages from those in Taiwan. Our study provides insights into the introduction history and migration routes of this alien species that can enhance management plans.
Rho related BTB domain containing 1 (RhoBTB1) is highly expressed in placenta and functions to deliver protein targets to the Cullin-3 (CUL3) E3 ubiquitin ligase where they are targeted for ubiquitination and degradation. The targets of RhoBTB1 in placenta have not been identified. Using RNAscope, we show that RhoBTB1 is mainly expressed in syncytiotrophoblasts (SCT) in the human and mouse placenta. We employed ascorbate peroxidase 2-mediated targeted proteomics to identify RhoBTB1 binding proteins in immortalized human extravillous trophoblast (HTR8/SVneo) cells. We selected 9 RhoBTB1-interacting proteins to examine functionally. Two of these, S-Phase Kinase Associated Protein 2 (SKP2) and Rho GTPase-Activating Protein 29 (ArhGAP29), increased in abundance when Cullin activity was blocked by the neddylation inhibitor MLN4924 and co-immunoprecipitated with RhoBTB1. SKP2 increased in abundance in CRISPR-Cas9 HEK293 cells that lack CUL3, and in HTR8/SVneo cells after siRNA-mediated inhibition of RhoBTB1. SKP2 was ubiquitinated by a RhoBTB1- and CUL3-dependent mechanism providing evidence that its stability is regulated by RhoBTB1/CUL3. Like RhoBTB1, SKP2 is highly expressed in the placenta. Reanalysis of single cell RNA sequencing data sets revealed that SKP2 exhibits co-expression with RhoBTB1 in SCT precursor cells, SCTs, and cytotrophoblasts. These findings identify SKP2 as a RhoBTB1/CUL3 target in the placenta.© 2026 The Author(s). Physiological Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Physiological Society and the American Physiological Society.
2-phenylbenzimidazole-5-sulfonic acid (PBSA), a widely used organic UV filter, is frequently detected in aquatic environments, yet its developmental neurotoxicity (DNT) remains poorly understood. Here, we exposed zebrafish embryos to 0.1-1000 μg/L PBSA and identified 10 μg/L as the effective concentration and 6-48 hours post-fertilization (hpf) as the sensitive developmental window for PBSA-induced DNT. Exposure to 10 μg/L PBSA during the critical window led to a significant increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels and inflammatory response, accompanied by astrocyte activation in specific brain region (elevated GFAP, S100B, and glutamine synthetase), while neurogenesis was inhibited independent of apoptosis. Moreover, PBSA exposure upregulated retinoid X receptor gamma (rxrga) expression and downregulated thrombospondin-1 (tsp-1) expression, with rxrga positively correlated with astrocyte activation markers and negatively correlated with tsp-1 levels. Knockdown of rxrga using morpholino rescued PBSA-induced tsp-1 suppression, neurogenesis impairments, and behavioral abnormalities at 120 hpf, while leaving astrocyte activation unaffected, suggesting that astrocyte activation may operate upstream of rxrga. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that PBSA exposure during a sensitive developmental window induces DNT through oxidative stress, inflammation, and astrocyte activation, with the rxrga/tsp-1 axis mediating neurogenesis inhibition. This study provides mechanistic insights into PBSA-induced neurotoxicity and emphasizes the importance of incorporating DNT assessment in UV filter safety evaluation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Approximately 90% of patients with pancreatic cancer harbor KRAS mutations, predominantly the KRASG12D subtype. HRS-4642, a non-covalent inhibitor targeting KRASG12D, demonstrates potent antitumor efficacy but may ultimately lead to resistance. This study investigates the mechanisms underlying KRASG12D inhibitor resistance and evaluates strategies to enhance treatment sensitivity. Our findings indicate that a glutamine-restricted diet not only reverses KRASG12D inhibitor resistance in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) but also achieves remission with prolonging survival. Mechanistically, KRASG12D inhibitor resistance markedly upregulates ANXA1 expression, which, in turn, promotes its binding to the glutamine-related enzyme GOT1 and stabilizes its expression. Additionally, we find that ANXA1 upregulation facilitates mitochondrial localization of GLS1, thereby altering glutamine metabolism. These findings highlight ANXA1-mediated glutamine metabolism as a key driver of KRASG12D inhibitor resistance and support glutamine-restricted diets as a potential therapeutic strategy for KRASG12D mutant PDAC.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
S100B protein is a biomarker associated with central nervous system (CNS) injury following hypoxic-ischemic events. Measurement of S100B levels in umbilical cord blood may provide a noninvasive means of identifying newborns exposed to perinatal hypoxia related to fetal growth restriction (FGR) immediately after birth. Early detection of infants at increased risk of hypoxia-related CNS injury could facilitate closer surveillance, prompt diagnostic evaluation, and timely implementation of appropriate interventions, potentially improving long-term neurodevelopmental outcomes.This study investigates two groups of full-term pregnancies: a study group with prenatally diagnosed late FGR, and a control group with normal fetal growth. Following delivery, cord blood samples from both groups will be analyzed for S100B protein concentrations, pH, base excess (BE), and lactate levels. Additionally, fetal blood flow parameters in the umbilical artery (UA), uterine arteries (UtA), ductus venosus (DV), and middle cerebral artery (MCA) will be assessed via ultrasound within 48 hours before delivery. This study aims to compare S100B protein concentrations in umbilical cord blood between the two groups and evaluate its correlations with fetal Doppler parameters, pH, BE, and lactate levels in cord blood gas analysis. Additionally, it will evaluate the potential utility of S100B protein concentration as a biomarker associated with perinatal hypoxic stress in FGR-affected neonates.The study received approval from the Bioethics Committee of the Institute of Mother and Child in Warsaw (Decision No. 13/2024, dated 21 March 2024). The findings will be submitted for publication in peer-reviewed journals specializing in neonatology, pediatrics, obstetrics, and perinatology. Additionally, abstracts will be submitted to relevant national and international conferences.The study is registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (Identifier: NCT06893926).Copyright: © 2026 Drozdowska-Szymczak et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Annexin A1 (AnxA1) regulates inflammation and neovascularization in ocular diseases, influencing growth factor signaling and cytoskeletal dynamics. Accordingly, this study aimed to investigate the role of the AnxA1 protein in diabetic retinopathy (DR) and to understand how its absence affects inflammation and vascular dysfunction in DR.DR model was induced 12 weeks after streptozotocin injection in wild-type (AnxA1+/+) and AnxA1 knockout (AnxA1-/-) mice. We evaluated the consequences of AnxA1 deficiency on retinal morphology, Müller cell activation, inflammation, and angiogenesis associated with DR. We also performed an in silico analysis in wild-type animals with DR induced for 6 weeks and in a dataset of patients with DR. Furthermore, a choroidal neovascularization model was used to evaluate the role of AnxA1 in angiogenesis signaling.AnxA1 deficiency exacerbated selective systemic inflammatory alterations and promoted retinal neurodegeneration associated with DR. AnxA1-/- diabetic animals exhibited increased circulating IL-6, IL-17, chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 1, and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 levels, retinal monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 and IL-4 upregulation, dysregulated MAPK/STAT3 signaling, and altered gliosis responses. In addition, AnxA1 deficiency was associated with a proangiogenic signaling profile characterized by increased retinal levels of EGF, VEGF-A, and endothelin-1 in DR, whereas the upregulation of VEGF-C was predominantly observed in the choroidal neovascularization model.Endogenous AnxA1 modulates inflammatory-glial and proangiogenic signaling pathways in the diabetic retina. Its deficiency is associated with selective inflammatory dysregulation and enhanced angiogenesis-related signaling during DR progression.
Dietary cholesterol and de novo cholesterol synthesis in the liver use reciprocal coordination to maintain cholesterol homeostasis. However, high level of dietary cholesterol still promotes excessive cholesterol accumulation in the liver, leading to metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH), yet the mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here we show that hepatic S100A11, a member of the S100 family of calcium-binding proteins, positively responds to the dietary cholesterol level and is involved in hepatic cholesterol metabolism. S100A11 localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and can bind to cholesterol. In vivo and in vitro, hepatic overexpression of S100A11 led to SREBP2 activation to promote cholesterol synthesis, uptake, and accumulation, consequently exacerbating steatohepatitis. In contrast, inactivation of S100A11 had opposite effects and improved steatohepatitis. Mechanistically, S100A11 triggers the non-canonical entry of SREBP2 into the nucleus through a S100A11-ANXA1-KPNB axis, distinct from the well-known INSIG-SCAP pathway or Caspase2 pathways. Therefore, our work identifies S100A11 as a regulator of liver cholesterol metabolism, providing a promising target to treat MASH and hypercholesterolemia.
Epithelial-immune cell interactions are crucial in the regulation of pulmonary immune responses. Emerging evidence suggests that cell populations lining the airways may play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), a disease characterised by progressive scarring of the lung parenchyma. We profiled the cellular landscape of the airway mucosal niche in incident cases of IPF to understand early-stage events contributing to disease development.Single-cell RNA-sequencing was used to explore cellular heterogeneity in proximal airway brushings from seven healthy controls and nine patients with newly diagnosed IPF. In-depth bioinformatics analysis was used to interrogate changes in cell populations and cell-cell communication in IPF patients compared to controls.We show a relative increase in the abundance of airway macrophage subsets in IPF compared to healthy controls, and disease-specific changes in their transcriptional profile. Increased frequency of airway macrophages and proliferating macrophages was associated with more extensive disease at baseline quantified by the composite physiological index and radiological severity of traction bronchiectasis. Monocyte-derived macrophages were significantly enriched at baseline in IPF patients who had disease progression at 12 months. Using CellChat we exposed differences in cell-cell communication between airway epithelial cells, airway macrophages and T-cells in IPF. We identified dysregulation in signalling pathways such as SEMA3, ANXA1 and DESMOSOME, which modulate airway epithelial-macrophage interactions, potentially driving disease pathology.Airway epithelial cells and macrophages may play a key role in orchestrating the early immunopathology of IPF, and these data support further exploration of novel, airway-focused therapeutic targets in IPF.Copyright ©The authors 2026.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42545797 is a review article
Efficient energy storage is vital for self-sustaining Martian exploration. Li-CO2 batteries are promising by utilizing the Martian atmosphere (∼95% CO2) as active materials. Fe-S minerals, abundant on Mars, offer a viable candidate for cathode catalysts, yet their structural diversity necessitates a rational selection criterion. Here, we propose crystal void fraction as a governing descriptor correlating with affinity toward critical oxygen-containing species, Li2CO3 and singlet oxygen (1O2). Higher void fraction with decreased Fe-S6 octahedra packing density upshifts the d-band center and brings the z-containing orbitals closer to the Fermi level. Given the pronounced O-2pz character of Li2CO3 band-edge states and the π* orbital of 1O2 frontier orbital, symmetry matching along surface orbitals with z-directional components strengthens orbital coupling, correlating higher crystal void fractions with increased affinity for oxygen-containing species. Crucially, this affinity exhibits a dual role. High void fraction promotes Li2CO3 decomposition but 1O2-induced catalyst degradation, while low void fraction exhibits the opposite tendency. Marcasite with moderate void fraction achieves an optimal balance, achieving 88% energy efficiency and 1000 h cycle life. This work establishes crystal void fraction as a predictive metric for screening suitable catalysts for achieving activity-stability trade-off, and provides a promising landscape for in-situ resource utilization on Mars.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Stroke is a leading cause of severe long-term disability, and foot drop is a common post-stroke gait impairment that may reduce toe clearance, increasing the risk of toe contacts and, in turn, trip-related falls. This case series evaluated the novel combination of transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), functional electrical stimulation (FES) to the tibialis anterior, and physical therapy training to improve minimum toe clearance (MTC) in individuals with chronic stroke. The rationale for this combined approach was that tDCS may prime the motor cortex and enhance neuroplastic responsiveness, while FES provides task-specific peripheral stimulation to the dorsiflexors during gait-related training, potentially increasing MTC and minimizing toe drag. Four individuals with chronic stroke participated in an 8-week treatment program with sessions twice a week. Assessments were conducted at baseline, 4 weeks, and 8 weeks. Participant 1 started with tDCS alone for 4 weeks, then added FES for the remaining 4 weeks. Participant 2 began with FES for the first 4 weeks, and tDCS was added for the remaining 4 weeks. Participants 3 and 4 received both tDCS and FES throughout the entire 8-week program. Participants 1 (58-year-old female) and 4 (42-year-old male) showed no active ankle dorsiflexion at baseline, while participants 2 (66-year-old male) and 3 (36-year-old male) had a grade of 2 out of 5 for ankle dorsiflexion strength at baseline. Toe clearance and functional outcomes were collected at each assessment. Participants 1 and 4 demonstrated no meaningful change in MTC, whereas participants 2 and 3 both showed modest improvements. Among these responders, MTC increased by an average of 0.63 cm. These findings suggest that combining cortical neuromodulation with localized FES and physical therapy may improve toe clearance in select individuals with chronic stroke. However, because tibialis anterior activation was not directly measured, it remains unclear whether the observed changes were due to improved dorsiflexor activation or other compensatory gait strategies.Copyright 2026 Authors.
Iron-sulfur (Fe-S) clusters are essential cofactors required for the activity of numerous proteins involved in fundamental cellular processes, including DNA replication, metabolism and mitochondrial respiration. In eukaryotes, Fe-S cluster biogenesis is initiated in mitochondria by the ISC machinery, which assembles iron and sulfur, delivered by a cysteine desulfurase, onto the scaffold protein ISCU. Frataxin (FXN), a key regulator of this pathway, enhances Fe-S production by accelerating persulfide transfer to ISCU. FXN is essential in eukaryotes, and its loss results in a "petite" phenotype in yeast, senescence in dividing mammalian cells and embryonic lethality in mice. Interestingly, in yeast, a methionine to isoleucine substitution at position 141 of the scaffold protein Isu1 can bypass the requirement of FXN. To test whether this bypass mechanism is conserved in mammals, we introduced the equivalent M141I substitution into the endogenous Iscu gene in murine fibroblasts carrying a conditional Fxn allele using CRISPR-Cas9. We show that the ISCU M141I variant enables cell survival in the absence of FXN, preventing cell cycle arrest and decreasing baseline DNA damage. However, these FXN-null survivor clones exhibit slower proliferation, persistent mitochondrial dysfunction and defective mitochondrial Fe-S cluster proteins. In contrast, nuclear and cytosolic Fe-S proteins are preserved, as is cellular iron homeostasis. Importantly, the ISCU M141I variant delays, but does not fully rescue, embryonic lethality in Fxn-deficient mice. Altogether, our results reveal a previously unrecognized compartment-specific rescue of Fe-S cluster dependent processes by the ISCU M141I variant in mammalian cells, raising for the first time the possibility of compartmental regulation of Fe-S cluster biogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to ADMC Associazione Differenziamento e Morte Cellulare.
Anaerobic carbon monoxide dehydrogenase (CODH) enzymes interconvert CO2 and CO under mild conditions and with near perfect selectivity. The CODH active site, termed the C-cluster, is a [NiFe3S4]-Feu cluster that can reside in several different oxidation states. Despite decades of research, the electronic structure of the C-cluster remains unresolved, and the metal oxidation states are ambiguous. In this study, we interrogate a series of synthetic clusters with [NiFe3S4]3+/2+/1+ cores in multiple oxidation states as models of the C-cluster cubane core. Each cluster is characterized using crystallography, spectroscopy, magnetism, and computations. The most oxidized cluster, [NiFe3S4]3+, is best described as having Ni2+ and three Fe3+ sites. Remarkably, X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) data show that reduction to the [NiFe3S4]2+ state results in reduction of nickel to Ni1+, even though nearby Fe3+ sites are present. The fully oxidized Fe3+3 subsite can be reduced only after nickel has reached the Ni1+ state. These results demonstrate that Ni1+ is a readily accessible oxidation state in FeS clusters that are topologically relevant to the CODH C-cluster.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Altermagnets are a newly recognized class of magnetic materials characterized by compensated spin configurations while still breaking time-reversal symmetry and exhibiting unconventional transport phenomena. Hexagonal FeS (h-FeS) is a recently identified altermagnet candidate that shows a spontaneous anomalous Hall effect (AHE) accompanied by a tiny net magnetization. Here, we show that both the spontaneous AHE and magnetization can be effectively suppressed by an in-plane compressive strain. Since neutron diffraction measurements show that the applied uniaxial strain only modifies the in-plane domain population but does not affect the in-plane magnetic structure, the major effect of the applied strain is to tune the small c -axis ferromagnetic moment. Our results demonstrate a strong correlation between the tiny net magnetization and the spontaneous AHE in h-FeS, and show that uniaxial strain provides an effective knob to tune both properties in this altermagnet candidate for spintronic applications.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Coagulation and inflammation play crucial roles in the initiation and progression of cancer, and they exhibit a synergistic effect. However, a hematological biomarker and risk model based on coagulation and inflammatory have not yet been established in breast cancer.This study retrospectively analyzed 749 breast cancer patients at our institution. We established a coagulation-inflammation-related genes (CIRGs) risk model using the TCGA-BRCA dataset as the training set and GEO datasets (GSE20685, GSE21653) as the testing sets. Immunohistochemical staining was performed on tumor tissues to validate protein-level expression of key genes. Additionally, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was applied to investigate the expression of the CIRGs and explore intercellular communication differences.All enrolled cases were stratified by median systemic coagulation-inflammation index (SCI) into high- and low-SCI groups. The low-SCI group had longer disease-free survival and overall survival than the high-SCI group, with higher SCI levels noted in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). SCI exhibited a linear correlation with survival outcomes and superior survival predictive performance compared to the platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio. LASSO regression selected 21 prognosis-related CIRGs to construct a prognostic model, which showed robust predictive efficacy across three datasets. Tumor microenvironment analysis indicated that the high-risk group was associated with immune suppression. Drug sensitivity analysis identified 6 potential candidate drugs for low- and high-risk groups. Four hub genes (ABCA1, IL1R1, SERPINE1, and HPN) were identified among CIRGs, showing strong correlations with tumor stage and prognosis. scRNA-seq analysis revealed high expression of the CIRGs in myeloid, endothelial, and epithelial cells, with higher AUCell scores of the CIRGs in TNBC. Significant intercellular communication differences were observed between the two risk groups, especially in fibroblast/endothelial cell-to-T/B cell signaling pathways.This study deeply explores the roles and clinical significance of coagulation and inflammation in breast cancer. The hematological indicator SCI and the CIRGs risk model can serve as reliable biomarkers for breast cancer personalized treatment.Copyright © 2026 Li, Gao, Xia, Wang, Su, Chen, Ba, Jia, Li, Wang and Xiao.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558461 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557827 is a review article
Fragile X syndrome (FXS), the most common inherited form of intellectual disability and the leading monogenic cause of autism, results from the loss of the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). Dysregulated translation of FMRP target mRNAs is believed to underlie the aberrant synaptic plasticity observed in FXS. Identification of these targets is critical for elucidating disease mechanisms and developing therapeutic strategies.We confirmed the interaction between FMRP and FYN mRNA by RNA immunoprecipitation in HEK293 and SH-SY5Y cells and assessed FYN translational regulation via polyribosome profiling in FXS and control lymphoblastoid cells. The role of FYN in ERK hyperactivation was examined in FXS lymphoblastoid cells, FMR1-knockdown SH-SY5Y cells, and dfmr1 mutant flies. Additionally, we tested whether reducing or inhibiting Src64B, a Drosophila Src family kinase with homology to human FYN, could rescue neural and behavioral defects in dfmr1 mutants.FMRP bound to FYN mRNA and suppressed its translation without affecting mRNA stability. Phosphorylated ERK1/2 levels were markedly elevated in FXS lymphoblastoid cells, and this hyperactivation was largely reversed by either the Src family kinase inhibitor PP2 or siRNA-mediated FYN knockdown, supporting an important role for FYN in ERK1/2 dysregulation. Similar changes were observed in FMR1-knockdown SH-SY5Y cells, with increased FYN expression and ERK1/2 phosphorylation, and PP2 treatment attenuated the abnormal ERK1/2 phosphorylation. Furthermore, genetic or pharmacological suppression of Src64B restored ERK signaling and rescued mushroom body defects and memory deficits in dfmr1 mutants.This study identifies FYN as a novel translational target of FMRP and suggests that its upregulation may contribute to hyperactivation of ERK1/2 signaling in FXS.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557144 is a review article
Current UK guidelines recommend measurement of symphyseal fundal height and measurement of maternal blood pressure and urinalysis, with the aim of detecting women at increased risk of fetal growth restriction (FGR) and pre-eclampsia. Between 2008 and 2013, we conducted a prospective cohort study recruiting 4512 nulliparous women at the Rosie Hospital, Cambridge, where we performed serial ultrasonic imaging and serial blood sampling and generated a novel screening test for pre-eclampsia and FGR. The method involved measuring the ratio of two placental biomarkers (soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase receptor-1 and placenta growth factor) at ~36 weeks of gestational age (wkGA) and combining the result with maternal characteristics and ultrasonic imaging. Women who screened positive had a ~50% risk of a composite outcome, consisting of pre-eclampsia±delivery of a baby with a birth weight <3rd percentile for sex and gestational age±perinatal morbidity or death. It is plausible that screening and intervention using this method might improve pregnancy outcome.Nulliparous women with an apparently normal singleton pregnancy will be recruited at their dating ultrasound scan. Blood will be obtained at this visit, at their anomaly scan (20 wkGA), and at two research appointments (28 wkGA and 36 wkGA) when research ultrasound scans will be performed. Blood for DNA will be obtained from the father of the baby where possible and the placenta will be sampled following birth. At 36 wkGA, women will be consented for participation in the randomised controlled trial (RCT) element of the study and their risk of term pre-eclampsia and FGR will be assessed using the novel approach. Women who screen high-risk will then be randomly allocated to either having the result revealed or masked. Women randomised to having the result revealed will be offered early delivery and/or enhanced monitoring. Where the result is masked, there will be no communication between the research team and the participant, and she will continue to receive routine care at the Rosie Hospital. The primary outcome is a composite of pre-eclampsia, FGR and perinatal morbidity and mortality. The study will also generate data and biological samples to support future research in novel screening methods and disease mechanisms.The study received ethical approval from the East of England Research Ethics Committee. All women provide written informed consent to participate in the cohort. Women provide a second written informed consent to participate in the RCT. The study results will be disseminated by presentation at international conferences and publication in peer reviewed journals.ISRCTN1218142.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published by BMJ Group.
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) is a heterogeneous inflammatory disease with variable outcomes following functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS). Predictive biomarkers for post-FESS CRSwNP recurrence remain poorly defined.Identify tissue-based predictors of CRSwNP recurrence after FESS and assess dupilumab-induced modifications.From a cohort of patients with CRSwNP (including NSAID-exacerbated respiratory disease [NSAID-ERD]) who underwent FESS, we retrospectively identified 91 who could be dichotomized by clinical outcome as post-FESS "rapid recurrence" (<1 year) or "slow/no recurrence" (>2 years without recurrence). Nasal polyp tissue was analyzed for 69 inflammatory mediators using proteomics and ELISA. Logistic regression with LASSO feature selection identified candidate predictors. In an independent, second prospective cohort of 17 CRSwNP patients initiating dupilumab, nasal fluid was collected at baseline and after two months of dupilumab and profiled for the same mediators.Twenty-three tissue mediators strongly predicted rapid CRSwNP recurrence (AUC >0.70), including markers of type (T) 2 inflammation (IL-4, IL-13, IL-5Rα, ECP, IgE) and innate inflammation and/or myeloid involvement (CCL3/4/7/8/13, CSF2, IL-1β, IL-6, OSM, MMP12, HIF-1α, TNF-α, TNFSF14). Of these, dupilumab significantly reduced IL-5Rα and several chemokines (CCL3, CCL4, CCL13) but had no effect on key myeloid mediators (CCL8, CSF2, IL-1β, MMP12, HIF-1α).Both T2 and non-T2 mediators play a role in rapid post-FESS recurrence in CRSwNP. T2 blockade with dupilumab reduces T2-associated mediators but does not suppress a parallel innate/myeloid inflammatory axis. The persistence of this axis during treatment suggests that innate and myeloid mediators may underlie severe CRSwNP and could influence disease recurrence once T2 signaling is no longer inhibited, representing potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets to improve long-term disease control.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Maternal obesity compromises placental development and fetal growth, yet the mechanisms remain unknown. Here, we investigated the impact of high-fat diet (HFD) on placental energy homeostasis in mice. Female C57BL/6 mice were fed a control diet or an HFD, with a subset receiving FerroTerminator-1 (FOT1) to modulate metabolic dysfunction. At embryonic day 18.5, maternal metabolic status, fetal growth, placental morphology, energy metabolism, and oxidative stress were assessed. HFD-fed dams developed dyslipidemia and insulin resistance, and exhibited placental lipid accumulation and impaired labyrinth zone development, resulting in reduced fetal weight and altered fetal liver lipid and glycogen contents. The placenta showed mitochondrial damage, accompanied by reduced ATP content, mitochondrial membrane potential, mitochondrial DNA copy number, and suppressed respiratory chain complex activities. Placental metabolomic profiling showed that HFD was associated with altered levels of metabolites in glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation pathways. These alterations coincided with placental iron-associated oxidative stress, evidenced by elevated non-heme iron, lipid peroxidation products, upregulation of transferrin receptor (TFRC) and lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 3 (LPCAT3), downregulation of ferritin heavy chain 1 (FTH1) and solute carrier family 40 member 1 (SLC40A1), a reduced glutathione to oxidized glutathione ratio, and impaired glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) expression and activity. Meanwhile, FOT1 administration attenuated placental oxidative stress, partially restored ATP production and mitochondrial function, and improved fetal growth in HFD-fed mice. Collectively, maternal obesity was associated with placental iron-associated oxidative stress and bioenergetic impairment, which may contribute to reduced placental efficiency and FGR.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Grassland productivity stability underpins the sustained functioning of arid and semi-arid ecosystems yet identifying how regional stability emerges across local communities remains challenging because stability is multidimensional, scale- dependent, and is shaped by seasonal growth processes.Here, we use satellite-derived gross primary productivity (GPP) data from 2000 to 2018 to investigate how local stability, spatial synchrony, drought resistance, recovery, and fast-growing phase characteristics jointly regulate regional stability across meadow, typical, and desert steppes in Inner Mongolia and across three observational grains (0.1°, 0.5°, and 1.0°).We found that regional stability was governed primarily by local stability rather than spatial synchrony, suggesting that the stabilizing role of spatial insurance was limited under broad-scale climatic constraints. At the local scale, temporal stability was more closely aligned with resistance than with recovery, while resistance and recovery showed a persistent trade-off. Mechanistically, growth rate during the fast-growing phase (FGR) linked environmental variation to stability by reflecting how efficiently vegetation converted favorable hydrothermal conditions into mean GPP. Higher FGR strengthened local temporal stability mainly through higher mean GPP, while its relationships with resistance and recovery depended on productivity variability and post-drought resource conditions. Observational grain further modified the expression of stability and the detectability of relationships among stability dimensions.These findings identify fast seasonal growth as a key pathway through which favorable hydrothermal windows are translated into local stability, with consequences for regional stability across observational grains. They also suggest that grassland monitoring and management should consider the spatial grain at which stability is assessed.Copyright © 2026 Nie, Yuan, Zhang, Shi, Zhang and Wang.
Placental dysfunction and immune dysregulation are central to disorders such as fetal growth restriction (FGR) and preeclampsia (PE). Although aberrant placental glycosylation has been implicated in various pregnancy complications, the specific expression patterns of glycosylation-related genes (GRGs) associated with placental pathology and their potential role in driving immune imbalance at the maternal-fetal interface remain poorly understood.First, differentially expressed gene (DEG) identification and gene set enrichment analysis based on two GEO datasets (GSE114691 and GSE203507) revealed disease-associated pathways. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) further identified glycosylation-related gene modules significantly associated with disease status. Three machine learning algorithms (LASSO, random forest, and support vector machine) were employed to screen diagnostic key genes, and a predictive nomogram was constructed. The efficacy of the diagnostic model was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic curves, calibration curves, and decision curve analysis. CIBERSORT was used to assess immune cell infiltration characteristics in the placenta and decidua of FGR, PE, and PE+FGR. Furthermore, single-cell RNA sequencing validated the expression patterns of key diagnostic genes across different trophoblast subsets, and cell-cell communication networks were analyzed using CellChat. In addition, this study validated the diagnostic efficacy of key genes in real-world samples.Following batch correction and integration of two datasets, 104 samples were analyzed, including controls (n=26), PE (n=28), FGR (n=23), and PE+FGR (n=27). Glycosylation-related pathways were enriched in disease groups. Intersection of WGCNA modules with glycosylation genes yielded 97 overlapping genes, from which five core genes were identified using three machine learning algorithms. A diagnostic model based on these genes showed good predictive performance across disease groups. Immune infiltration analysis implicated multiple immune cell types in disease pathogenesis. Real-world validation of expression of B3GNT2 and ST6GAL1 differed significantly between normal and PE/FGR groups.Five candidate hub genes (B3GNT2, ST6GAL1, GALNT11, GCNT4, and LARGE2) were identified and a nomogram was constructed for FGR, PE, and PE+FGR diagnosis. Protein-level validation confirmed significant downregulation of B3GNT2 and ST6GAL1 in placental tissues from FGR and PE patients; mRNA-level validation of GALNT11, GCNT4, and LARGE2 is provided in independent clinical samples. These hub genes were associated with key immune cell types at both the placenta and decidua.Copyright © 2026 Yin, Hu, Yu, Zhang, Yu, Huang, Xu, Tang, Liu and Du.
The skeletal dysplasias pose a particular diagnostic challenge due to their rarity, phenotypic overlap, and the dynamic evolution of sonographic features across gestation.To evaluate the relative prevalence of skeletal dysplasia (SD) and delineate antenatal ultrasound markers aiding diagnosis of SD in cases with short femur.The records of targeted ultrasound of fetuses with suspected SD from 2021 to 2025 were reviewed. Femur length was expressed as standard deviations below mean and associated visceral and skeletal abnormalities were recorded among diagnosed and undiagnosed cases.A total of 76 cases were fully followed; the mean gestational age was 28.2 ± 6.6 weeks. Majority of the cases were detected in the late second or early third trimester. More than two-third of them were suspected to have SD, whereas the rest were either FGR or constitutionally small fetus. The ultrasound findings guided us to distinguish FGR and constitutionally small fetuses from SD cases. It was a valuable tool in determining lethality. The molecular testing could be done in only one third of the suspected SD cases. Apart from ultrasound findings such as severely short femur, polydactyly, poor mineralization and fractures, the bending of femur, narrow thorax, micrognathia, and visceral anomalies helped in pinning the clinical diagnosis of SD in many cases. The FL/AC and TC/AC ratio individually had less sensitivity and high specificity for the prediction of lethality, but had 100% sensitivity for lethality prediction if both were abnormal. Fetal growth restriction was diagnosed in 17/76 (22.4%), familial short stature in 4/76 (5.3%). SD was suspected in 55/76 (72.3%). Among them, the genetically diagnosed, clinically suspected, and undiagnosed cases were 19/55 (34.5%), 24/55 (43.6%), and 12/55 (21.8%). Bent femur was most common anomaly (29/55, 52.7%), followed by narrow thorax (20/55, 36.4%). Renal anomaly was the commonest visceral anomaly (5/55, 9.1%). The diagnosis of SD was made in 40/76 (52.6%). Ciliopathies were the largest group (12/40, 40%), followed by osteogenesis imperfecta (11/40, 27.5%).The study highlights the importance of structured ultrasound assessment and pattern recognition in skeletal dysplasia along with genetic testing for improved clinical decision-making and parental counseling.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
DPSCs, known for their robust multipotent differentiation, are top candidates for engineering dental pulp tissues. OTUB1 is a critical deubiquitinating enzyme that regulates multiple biological processes and disease contexts. In our study, the function of OTUB1 in regulating the odontogenesis of DPSCs was investigated.The verification of phenotypes involved experiments with gain and loss of function, along with a rat tooth pulp model. Proteomic analysis combined with LC-MS/MS analysis was conducted to identify the target in the process of OTUB1 mediated-deubiqutination in DPSCs.Odontogenic differentiation capacities were influenced by the increase or decrease of OTUB1. Increased levels of OTUB1 promote dentin formation in a rat tooth pulp model. Moreover, OTUB1 directly interacts with TPM1. By deubiquitinating TPM1, OTUB1 prevents its proteasomal degradation, thereby upregulating TPM1 protein levels and increasing autophagy in DPSCs. Consequently, the beneficial impact on odontogenic differentiation due to OTUB1 overexpression was nullified by the targeted removal of TPM1 or the inhibition of autophagy in DPSCs.The OTUB1-mediated deubiquitination/TPM1/autophagy pathway promotes odontogenic differentiation in DPSCs, thereby presenting novel strategies for enhancing dentin regeneration.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Designing graphene-based metal-free electrocatalysts is crucial due to their reduced costs, tunable molecular structures, superior electronic conductivity and substantial tolerance under fluctuating pH conditions. In this report, we have covalently functionalized fluoride graphite with n-octyl amine (OA), n-dodecyl amine (DDA), and n-octadecyl amine (ODA) via a facile nucleophilic substitution reaction to prepare three different N-alkylated fluorographene materials, OA-FGr, DDA-FGr, and ODA-FGr, respectively. Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy, X-ray diffraction (XRD), Raman spectroscopy, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) analysis, and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) have collectively confirmed their successful formation by providing information about their functionality, stacking, chemical interactions, morphology and textural properties. Moreover, electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy has been used to verify not only the functionalization but also the electrocatalytic properties. The synthesized materials have been utilized to prepare working electrodes to record linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves under acidic conditions (0.5 M H2SO4) and in an inert atmosphere at a scan rate of 5 mV s-1. ODA-FGr has demonstrated superior performance to its counterparts (OA-FGr and DDA-FGr), with an overpotential (η) of 530 mV at 10 mA cm-2 and a Tafel slope of 80 mV dec-1. Moreover, ODA-FGr has shown excellent durability, stability under accelerated test conditions (a scan rate of 100 mV s-1 and 2000 cycles) and reproducibility. Notably, the positive role of the alkyl chain length of amine molecules and their covalent functionalization is observed in improving HER performance and is found to be related to their amphiphilic nature and fluorine-to-nitrogen (F/N) ratio.This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Pulmonary hypertension is a malignant cardiovascular disease characterized by pulmonary vascular remodeling, with core pathological features including pulmonary arterial wall thickening and elevated pulmonary vascular remodeling due to aberrant proliferation of pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells (PASMCs). The molecular regulatory mechanisms underlying pulmonary vascular remodeling remain incompletely understood.Transcriptome sequencing was employed to screen for differentially expressed genes in lung artery tissues of control and Sugen5416 combined hypoxia-induced rat models. A series of in vitro and in vivo experiments, including scratch assays, EdU staining, Cell Counting Kit-8cell proliferation assays, immunofluorescence, immunoblotting, and overexpression/knockdown techniques, were performed to investigate the molecular mechanism by which KRT17 (keratin 17) induces PASMCs proliferation and promotes pulmonary hypertension vascular remodeling.KRT17 was found to be highly expressed in lung tissues of patients with pulmonary hypertension, as well as in pulmonary arterial tissue and hypoxic PASMCs models. Both in vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated that KRT17 was a critical regulator of PASMCs proliferation. METTL14 (methyltransferasean14, an m6A methyltransferase complex subunit) was identified as a potential modulator of KRT17 RNA methylation, enhancing its RNA stability and protein expression. Furthermore, KRT17 promoted PASMCs proliferation through upregulation of LCN2 (lipocalin-2).Our study reveals a novel molecular mechanism by which KRT17 expression is regulated via METTL14-mediated m6A methylation, and further elucidates the role of KRT17 in inducing PASMCs proliferation through the LCN2 signaling pathway. These findings provide significant theoretical insights for the development of innovative therapeutic targets for pulmonary hypertension.
Out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) is a global health issue with low survival rates, for which bystander cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) is crucial. In China, bystander CPR rates and public proficiency remain low. Children-an important future first-responder group-also lack adequate training. Gamification and virtual reality (VR) technologies show potential in enhancing training effectiveness, but research on the needs, acceptability, and functional requirements of gamified CPR training kits from children's and parents' dual perspectives is insufficient, providing a realistic basis for this study.This study aimed to investigate children's and parents' needs, acceptability, and functional requirements for the development of gamified CPR training kits.A cross-sectional qualitative design was adopted. Inclusion criteria were children aged 6 to 12 years, their parents, adequate communication skills, and voluntary informed consent, with purposive sampling to recruit 13 parent-child dyads from a primary school in Changsha, Hunan Province. The participants included children aged 6 to 12 years (average age 9.50, SD 1.50 y, 6 boys and 7 girls) and their parents (average age 38.50, SD 2.50 y, 6 female and 7 male individuals). Semistructured interviews were conducted separately for children and parents, with audio recording and verbatim transcription. The NVivo 12.0 (QSR International Pty Ltd) software was used for thematic coding and analysis, and dual independent coding (by 2 researchers) was performed to ensure rigor, with discrepancies resolved through team discussion. Thematic saturation, defined as codebook stabilization and no new themes across 3 consecutive interviews, was achieved after 13 dyads. The study followed the COREQ (Consolidated Criteria for Reporting Qualitative Research) guidelines, and all procedures were approved by the ethics committee.Four main themes and 9 subthemes emerged from the data: (1) children's approaches to acquiring CPR-related knowledge and skills (through school-organized first aid activities, family members, or social media platforms), (2) attitudes toward gamified training kits (children's receptiveness and parental preferences regarding such tools), (3) expectations for gamified CPR training kits (child-friendly design, effective skill training, personalized feedback, and scientifically grounded content), and (4) challenges in gamified science education (ensuring product safety and professionalism and contextualizing game scenarios to everyday life).As children are an important reserve force for future first responders, cultivating their first aid awareness is crucial for improving public emergency response capabilities. Effective gamified CPR training kit development requires integrating children's and parents' perceptions to balance entertainment, education, and practicality. This study innovatively explores dual user needs, differing from prior research focused on training outcomes rather than predevelopment requirements. It addresses gaps in pediatric first aid tool design and provides evidence-based references for the development of child-friendly, professional, gamified training resources-laying a foundation for gradually enhancing CPR literacy and emergency response awareness among children in China.© Pan Wang, Zeya Shi, Furong Xu, Ying Huang, Yu Tian. Originally published in JMIR Serious Games (https://games.jmir.org).
Allergen immunotherapy (AIT) remains the only disease-modifying treatment for respiratory allergic diseases and the only intervention capable of preventing systemic sting reactions in patients with venom allergy (VA)﻿. This review summarizes recent real-world evidence on the safety of AIT.Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have consistently established the safety of licensed AIT products; however, real-world data are needed to comprehensively evaluate the frequency and severity of adverse events (AEs)﻿ and identify risk factors in routine practice. Safety data collection through registries and prospective or retrospective cohorts has confirmed that AIT is generally well tolerated across larger and heterogeneous populations, healthcare settings, and AIT practices. However, rare systemic reactions (SRs)﻿ and exceptionally fatal reactions (FRs)﻿ continue to occur. Careful pretreatment evaluation and close monitoring remain crucial, particularly during subcutaneous immunotherapy due to the higher risk of systemic reactions. Data on sublingual immunotherapy support a more favourable safety profile, with infrequent systemic reactions and no fatal reactions reported to date. In venom allergy, new evidence on clonal mast cell disorders, hereditary α-tryptasemia and detection of KIT p. D816V in peripheral blood is refining risk stratification.Systemic and severe adverse events associated with AIT are infrequent. Careful risk stratification and evaluation before initiating immunotherapy can help identify high-risk patients and optimize the benefit-risk balance.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Tumor immune barriers (TIBs) are spatially organized stromal-immune niches that restrict lymphocyte entry. To explain persistent immune-checkpoint blockade (ICB) resistance in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC), we mapped TIBs and defined a peritumoral variant built from POSTN+ cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) interlaced with APOE+ tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs). This niche excluded CD8+ T cells from tumor cores, and was enriched in poor-prognosis, ICB-refractory patients. Spatial transcriptomics and single-cell profiling showed TIB regions enriched for extracellular-matrix remodeling, immunosuppressive ligand-receptor circuits, and metabolic reprogramming. Mechanistically, tumor-derived TGF-β1 activated CAFs via SMAD signaling, inducing POSTN and recruiting APOE+TAMs through integrin and chemokine axes. TAMs secreted TGF-β1 and VEGFA, amplifying stromal programs and sustaining exclusion. Blocking POSTN reprogrammed macrophages, reduced matrix-mediated suppression, and restored CD8+ infiltration. In vivo, POSTN inhibition combined with ICB boosted antitumor immunity, reduced tumor burden, and reversed immunosuppressive infiltration, nominating POSTN-directed strategies to potentiate ICB.
Angiogenesis plays a significant role in the progression of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). The RNA-binding protein IGF2BP3 is associated with fibrosis and angiogenesis, but its role in IPF angiogenesis remain unclear. Additionally, Tianlongjie (TL) has been confirmed to inhibit IPF progression, but the role of IGF2BP3 in this process also needs to be elucidated. A bleomycin (BLM)-induced pulmonary fibrosis rat model was established via intratracheal instillation of BLM, and an angiogenesis cell model was constructed by treating HPMVECs with VEGF165. HE staining was used to detect lung tissue injury. Masson staining, HYP content measurement, Western blot, and Immunohistochemistry assessed to evaluate fibrosis and angiogenesis progression. EdU staining was employed to detect cell proliferation. RIP-qPCR and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed to examine the interaction between IGF2BP3 and HIF-1α. IGF2BP3 was abnormally highly expressed in pulmonary fibrosis. IGF2BP3 knockdown reduced the expression of HYP, COL-I, COL-III, α-SMA, CD31, CD34, and VEGFA in pulmonary fibrosis rat lung tissues, increased E-cadherin expression, and inhibited pulmonary fibrosis progression and microvascular formation in rats. In vitro, IGF2BP3 knockdown suppressed cell proliferation, migration and vascular endothelial cell angiogenesis. Mechanistically, IGF2BP3 may promote HIF-1α stability through m6A modification, and HIF-1α overexpression attenuated the inhibitory effect of IGF2BP3 knockdown on angiogenesis. Furthermore, TL treatment was associated with reduced fibrosis and lower IGF2BP3/HIF-1α expression. In conclusion, IGF2BP3 can promote pulmonary fibrosis-related angiogenesis by stabilizing HIF-1α expression, and TL inhibits IGF2BP3 and HIF-1α expression, angiogenesis and fibrosis progression in pulmonary fibrosis rats.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Osteosarcoma (OS) is a malignant bone tumor that predominantly affects adolescents. Due to its early metastatic tendency and chemoresistance, long-term survival rates in patients have not shown significant improvement over time, highlighting the urgent need for novel molecular targets and therapeutic strategies. Ferroptosis, a form of programmed cell death driven by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation, offers a promising avenue for overcoming drug-resistant tumors. ATP-binding cassette subfamily B member 6 (ABCB6) belongs to the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter superfamily and is mainly localised to the outer mitochondrial membrane, where it participates in haem synthesis and intracellular iron transport. Recent studies have indicated that ABCB6 is aberrantly expressed in various malignancies and regulates tumor progression, yet its role and mechanism in OS remain unexplored. The present study aims to systematically characterise the expression pattern, clinical prognostic significance, and biological functions of ABCB6 in OS, and to dissect the molecular mechanism by which ABCB6 governs ferroptosis in OS cells, thereby providing a theoretical foundation for ABCB6-targeted therapy.Human OS cell lines (HOS and 143B) and human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) were used as research subjects. Stable ABCB6-knockdown OS cell lines were established via lentivirus-mediated RNA interference, and rescue experiments were performed using lentiviral overexpression of hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF1A). Cell proliferation was assessed by cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) and colony formation assays; migration was evaluated by Transwell and scratch wound-healing assays; apoptosis was detected by flow cytometry. Ferroptosis-related phenotypic assays were employed to determine the impact of ABCB6 expression on ferroptosis. Transcriptome sequencing was conducted to analyse differentially expressed genes and enriched pathways; chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and dual-luciferase reporter assays were applied to verify the direct binding of HIF1A to the promoter of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) and its transcriptional regulation. Iron chelator and proteasome inhibitor interventions were used to validate the regulation of HIF1A protein stability by Fe2+. In vivo, ABCB6-knockdown and control 143B cells were injected subcutaneously into nude mice to establish a xenograft tumor model, and tumor growth was monitored.Both messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein levels of ABCB6 were significantly higher in OS cell lines than in BMSCs (both P<0.05), and analysis of the Therapeutically Applicable Research to Generate Effective Treatments (TARGET)-OS cohort revealed that patients with high ABCB6 expression had markedly worse overall survival than those with low expression [hazard ratio (HR)=2.94, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.36 to 6.36, P<0.05]. ABCB6 knockdown significantly suppressed OS cell proliferation and colony formation, reduced migratory capacity, and increased the apoptosis rate, accompanied by downregulation of N-cadherin and upregulation of E-cadherin and cleaved caspase-3 (all P<0.05). ABCB6 silencing markedly elevated the proportion of Liperfluo-positive cells and dihydroethidium (DHE) oxidation levels, increased intracellular Fe2+ concentration, decreased the glutathione (GSH)/oxidized glutathione (GSSG) ratio, reduced mitochondrial membrane potential, and induced typical ferroptotic mitochondrial morphological changes (shrinkage and cristae reduction) as observed by transmission electron microscope (all P<0.05); these oxidative alterations were reversed by the ferroptosis inhibitors. ABCB6 knockdown downregulated GPX4 at both protein and mRNA levels, whereas solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11) expression remained unchanged (P>0.05). Transcriptome sequencing and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis showed significant enrichment of the HIF-1 signalling pathway in the control group (P<0.001); ABCB6 knockdown decreased HIF1A protein expression, and treatment with an iron chelator or a proteasome inhibitor reversed this degradation through Fe2+ chelation or inhibition of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway, respectively (all P<0.05). Chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (ChIP-qPCR) and dual-luciferase reporter assays confirmed that HIF1A directly binds to the GPX4 promoter and activates its transcription. Overexpression of HIF1A in ABCB6-knockdown cells restored GPX4 expression and significantly rescued the proliferation inhibition, migration impairment, and apoptosis increase caused by ABCB6 silencing, while also restoring mitochondrial membrane potential (all P<0.05). In the xenograft model, tumors from the ABCB6-knockdown group exhibited significantly reduced volume and weight compared with the control group (all P<0.05); immunohistochemistry confirmed downregulation of HIF1A and GPX4, reduced Ki-67 and N-cadherin positivity, and increased cleaved caspase-3 and E-cadherin positivity in the knockdown group (all P<0.05).This study systematically uncovers, for the first time, the oncogenic role and prognostic value of ABCB6 in OS, and delineates the complete "ABCB6/Fe2+/HIF1A/GPX4" axis that governs ferroptosis in OS cells. These findings not only provide a novel biomarker for molecular subtyping and prognostic evaluation of OS, but also establish a theoretical basis for therapeutic strategies that target the ABCB6/HIF1A/GPX4 axis to induce ferroptosis. Future investigations may explore the upstream regulators of ABCB6 and its potential utility in reversing chemoresistance in OS.
Research has found that paraoxonase 1 (PON1) is closely related to cardiovascular disease, but the relationship between circulating PON1 levels and coronary artery stenosis (CAS) in patients with diabetes remains unclear.This study is a single-center, retrospective cross-sectional study that includes 34 patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) and 118 patients with DM and CAS (DM+CAS). All study participants were from Beijing Luhe Hospital, affiliated with Capital Medical University. In this study, data regarding demographic characteristics, medication history, and key laboratory parameters were collected. The concentration of plasma PON1 was quantified using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) kit. Multiple logistic regression models were employed to evaluate the connection between PON1 levels and the presence of CAS among patients with diabetes. Additionally, the diagnostic performance of PON1 levels for diabetes combined with CAS was evaluated utilizing the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve and the area under the curve (AUC).Compared with patients in the diabetes group, plasma PON1 levels were significantly lower in diabetic patients with CAS. To evaluate the correlation between PON1 levels and CAS among individuals with diabetes, three logistic regression models were developed. As a continuous variable, higher PON1 levels were found to be inversely related to CAS risk in all models. In tertile-stratified analyses, compared with T1, all other tertiles exhibited significantly reduced risk of CAS. The ROC curve demonstrated that the unadjusted AUC of PON1 levels was 0.662 (95% CI 0.561-0.762, p = 0.004), while the fully adjusted model yielded an AUC of 0.833 (95% CI: 0.758-0.908, p < 0.001).Plasma PON1 levels were significantly decreased and independently associated with CAS in diabetic patients. Circulating PON1 alone showed moderate diagnostic efficiency, whereas its predictive accuracy was greatly improved when combined with clinical covariates. The findings are limited by single-center enrollment, a small sample size, and a lack of subgroup analysis for stenosis severity. Moreover, only PON1 protein levels were examined, with no detection of PON1 enzymatic activity. Further large-scale multicenter prospective studies are needed to validate these results and clarify the clinical utility of PON1.Circulating PON1 levels are negatively correlated with CAS in diabetic patients. While PON1 alone has limited diagnostic value, its combination with clinical covariates significantly improves risk discrimination.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
To assess the association between different tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) and the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE).PubMed, the Cochrane Library, Embase, WanFang Data, and CNKI were searched for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) from inception to June 2026.A total of 25 RCTs met the inclusion criteria, encompassing 9,068 patients. The risk of MACE was significantly higher in the TKI-treated group than in the control group (odds ratio [OR] = 2.13; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.11-4.07; P = 0.02). The ORs for QT prolongation, hypertension, and arrhythmias were 6.05 (95% CI, 3.70-9.89; P < 0.00001), 4.18 (95% CI, 2.19-7.95; P < 0.0001), and 5.40 (95% CI, 3.43-8.50; P < 0.00001), respectively. Subgroup analysis indicated that epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) were associated with the highest risk of cardiovascular adverse events, followed by vascular endothelial growth factor receptor inhibitors (VEGFR-TKIs), platelet-derived growth factor receptor inhibitors (PDGFR-TKIs), and stem cell factor receptor inhibitors (c-Kit TKIs).TKI therapy significantly prolongs progression-free survival. However, the incidence of cardiovascular adverse events, including QT prolongation, hypertension, and arrhythmias, is notably higher with TKI use. EGFR-TKIs show the highest cardiovascular risk, followed by VEGFR-TKIs, PDGFR-TKIs, and c-Kit TKIs. Clinicians should be aware of these risks and ensure regular cardiovascular monitoring during treatment.https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/view/CRD420251084805, identifier CRD420251084805.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Cheng, Zheng, Liu, Zhang, Gao and Li.
Clinical laboratories face increasing demand for testing while operating within constrained budgets, necessitating efficient resource utilisation. Test kit efficiency, a key parameter in automated laboratories, refers to the appropriate use of reagent kits in a manner that minimises non-billable tests per kit.Manufacturer-supplied monthly test kit efficiency data for 96 chemistry analytes, collected between 01 April and 30 September 2023, were assessed retrospectively and compared with their respective benchmark efficiencies. The findings were further compared to those from a previous audit to assess for an improvement or decline in efficiency. Under-performing analytes identified included total protein in cerebrospinal fluid, alkaline phosphatase, glucose, ferritin, direct bilirubin and vancomycin. Root cause analysis and targeted interventions led to improvements in test kit efficiency of 12.6% - 37.7% for each analyte.Auditing test kit efficiency data revealed inefficiencies, allowing targeted interventions to optimise kit use and reduce costs without compromising quality. Efficiency was influenced by analytical performance, test kit size and batching practices, underscoring the importance of data-driven decision-making for workflow optimisation and resource management. The audit revealed challenges with inherently inefficient tests, highlighting the need for tailored solutions based on the population served, reagent stability and sample stability.We recommend regular test kit efficiency audits to reduce wastage, optimise workflow and drive quality improvement. Efficiency data can support identification of problematic assays and guide kit size adjustment and batching strategies, while ensuring initiatives remain patient-centred. However, the lack of standardised regulatory guidelines on test kit utilisation remains a key limitation that requires attention.There is limited published evidence on the use of test kit efficiency data to drive quality improvement in clinical chemistry laboratories. This study demonstrates how systematic auditing can identify modifiable inefficiencies and support evidence-based resource optimisation.© 2026. The Authors.
Hypoxia is a defining feature of the tumor microenvironment and a key driver of malignant progression through transcriptional reprogramming of metabolic, angiogenic, and survival pathways. In this study, hypoxia-induced molecular responses were investigated in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HepG2) and breast adenocarcinoma (MCF-7) cells using cobalt(II) chloride (CoCl2) as a hypoxia mimetic. Cell viability profiling was performed to determine the optimal experimental concentration, followed by quantitative PCR analysis of hypoxia-related genes and miRNA-gene interaction network analysis. Cell viability profiling identified 100 µM CoCl2 as the optimal condition for downstream analyses. Quantitative PCR revealed robust induction of HIF-1α in both cell lines, indicating activation of hypoxic signaling. However, downstream responses differed markedly between cell types. MCF-7 cells exhibited significant upregulation of SLC2A1 and increased VEGFA and NFKB1 expression, consistent with activation of glycolytic and pro-angiogenic pathways. In contrast, HepG2 cells showed limited downstream transcriptional engagement despite elevated HIF1A expression. Furthermore, miRNA-gene interaction analysis revealed a dense regulatory network in MCF-7 cells, whereas HepG2 cells displayed a more restricted, VEGFA-centered miRNA profile. These findings demonstrate that chemical hypoxia induces cell-type-specific transcriptional and post-transcriptional responses in breast and liver cancer cells. The results suggest that miRNA-mediated regulation may contribute to differential tumor adaptation to hypoxic stress and highlight the importance of cellular context in hypoxia-associated signaling pathways.
Sweeping proinflammatory factors has shown critical potential for curing inflammatory diseases. Hence, it is promising to explore a synergistic strategy combining colon-targeting drug delivery and proinflammatory factor scavenging for better management of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Herein, we constructed a colon-targeting nanoplatform by hybridizing an inorganic carrier, mesoporous silica nanoparticle (MSN) with an organic cationic functional polymer polyethyleneimine (PEI), and an anionic coating, Eudragit. The resultant nanoplatform exhibits uniform size, improved drug loading, on-demand drug release, and effective colon-targeting and retention capabilities via surface charge flip. Importantly, it can selectively release the loaded aminosalicylate prodrug olsalazine sodium (OLZ) in simulated colonic fluid while regulating macrophage polarization by binding and scavenging proinflammatory anionic cfDNA through electrostatic interaction with the exposed cationic PEI. Meanwhile, it alleviates the mucosal barrier damage of intestinal epithelial cells. Benefiting from its satisfactory attributes, this nanoplatform has been successfully applied in the treatment of colitis in a mouse model, demonstrating a significant protective effect on the intestinal mucosa. These results confirmed that it is promising for better IBD management to employ the synergistic intervention strategy integrating colon-targeting drug therapy and proinflammatory cfDNA scavenging.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Traditional histological classification of meningiomas has low prognostic accuracy and necessitates integration of molecular biomarkers. However, current data are fragmented and require rigorous synthesis.To develop a meta-analysis protocol for quantitative assessment of the influence of molecular profile of meningiomas on long-term outcomes (overall survival and recurrence-free period) after surgical or combined treatment.The article provides historical analysis of transformation of evidence-based medicine standards from narrative reviews to algorithmic guidelines (QUOROM, MOOSE, PRISMA). The choice of the PRISMA-P 2020 protocol and Cochrane methodology as the standard for this study is justified.A meta-analysis design was developed to assess the impact of genetic profile (TERT, CDKN2A/B, NF2 status, DNA methylation) on the risk of recurrence. Inclusion criteria (PICOTS) cover all types of meningiomas. The protocol regulates searching strategy, independent screening (Rayyan) and risk of bias assessment using the QUIPS tool. Statistical synthesis of data is planned to identify the hierarchy of risk factors.Implementation of this protocol will ensure creation of a valid evidence base for stratification of risk of meningioma recurrence based on molecular genetic profile.
Cervical dumbbell schwannomas are rare and heterogeneous tumors with complex surgical management. This single-center retrospective study aimed at evaluating the results of a standardized surgical approach and included patients who underwent surgery for a cervical dumbbell schwannoma between 2013 and 2026. All patients underwent initial posterior extradural intra-radicular surgery without instrumentation. The mean postoperative follow-up was 23.6 months (range: 2-90 months). Among the 26 patients included in the study, 12 had Schwannomatosis. The mean age at surgery was 61 years for sporadic and 37 years for Schwannomatosis patients (p = 0.02, unpaired t-test). The mean tumor volume was 11.9 cm³ (range: 1.5 - 80 cm³). The main indication for surgery was spinal cord compression (19 cases, 73%). Resection via exclusive intraradicular approach was possible in 94% of sporadic and 33% of Schwannomatosis patients (p = 0.03, Fisher's exact test), including 4 cases in which intradural resection was necessary due to a concomitant intradural tumor. Most patients reported an improvement in pain, sensory, and spinal cord compression symptoms, with two cases of worsening symptoms (8.3%). The complete resection rate was 84.6%. Of the four cases with incomplete resection, only one, in a Schwannomatosis patient, required early reoperation. Two cases (8%) of postoperative spinal instability were identified in the series, both in Schwannomatosis patients. Uninstrumented intraradicular resection of dumbbell schwannomas yields satisfactory functional and oncological outcomes in most cases, except for Schwannomatosis patients, diagnosed at a younger age and potentially requiring additional intradural approach for concomitant intracanalar tumors.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
The foreign body response (FBR) limits continuous glucose monitor longevity to 10 - 15 d because of chronic inflammation and collagen capsule formation surrounding the implant site. Nitric oxide (NO), a multifunctional bioactive molecule, has previously demonstrated potent FBR mitigation abilities. Here we evaluated the impact of polyurethane sensor membranes doped with a range of NO-release profiles achieved by primary and tertiary S-nitrosothiol-functionalized mesoporous silica nanoparticles (1° and 3°RSNO MSNs) using an in vitro approach. Experiments were performed using NO concentrations correlating to those known to be released at 1, 2, 4, and 6 weeks for each NO-releasing RSNO-MSN system. The NO-release kinetics and durations achieved by 1°/3°RSNO-MSN-doped sensor membranes proved effective at regulating pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokine secretion, inhibiting foreign body giant cell formation, preserving fibroblast migration, and reducing collagen production when evaluated using NO concentrations known to be present at 6 weeks. Such results suggested 1°/3°RSNO-MSN-doped sensor membranes have the potential to extend glucose sensor lifetime beyond the previously achieved 4 weeks. Indeed, both 1°/3°RSNO- and 3°RSNO-MSN-coated glucose sensors maintained stable mean absolute relative difference values over 6 weeks, with 1°/3°RSNO-MSN coated sensors trending lower, demonstrating the promise of extended NO-release for maintained sensor function over time.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42556742
Opioid use disorder is characterized by compulsive drug seeking and heightened relapse vulnerability following abstinence, a phenomenon known as incubation of craving. Although preclinical data suggest similar behavioral expression of opioid use between sexes, conclusive evidence on sex differences in craving and relapse across abstinence periods remains lacking. Here, we investigated the effects of abstinence from oxycodone self-administration on neurotransmission in the paraventricular thalamus (PVT) to nucleus accumbens shell (NAcSh) pathway in male and female rats. Using optogenetics and ex vivo electrophysiology, we assessed synaptic strength, glutamate release probability, and intrinsic excitability of NAcSh medium spiny neurons (MSNs) following 1 (acute) or 14 (prolonged) days of forced abstinence. No sex differences were observed in oxycodone self-administration or somatic withdrawal. However, females exhibited greater cue-induced relapse after prolonged but not acute abstinence. Prolonged abstinence produced comparable increases in PVT-NAcSh synaptic strength and presynaptic glutamate release probability in both sexes, while inhibitory transmission and MSN excitability were largely unaltered. The dissociation between comparable circuit-level plasticity and sex-specific relapse vulnerability suggests that PVT-NAcSh strengthening represents a shared neuroadaptation to oxycodone abstinence, while mechanisms driving heightened relapse in females likely involve additional circuit elements that remain to be identified.© 2025, Alonso Caraballo et al.
Pleural mesothelioma (PM) is an aggressive cancer with limited therapeutic options and poor prognosis, necessitating comprehensive model systems for mechanistic studies and drug discovery.Tumor cells were isolated from malignant pleural effusion of PM patients and subjected to primary culture and continuous passaging. Cell lines were successfully established after more than 40 continuous passages in vitro. Cell identification included morphological analysis, species identification, short tandem repeat (STR) profiling, mycoplasma detection, in vitro proliferation assays, in vivo tumorigenicity testing in NOD/SCID mice, and immunohistochemical characterization. Genomic landscapes and transcriptomic profiling were defined by whole-exome, whole-genome sequencing, and RNA-sequencing.Three Chinese-derived pleural mesothelioma cell lines (PUMC-MESO1, PUMC-MESO3, and PUMC-MESO4) were successfully established. All three cell lines exhibited epithelioid morphology with adherent growth patterns. Upon subcutaneous transplantation into NOD/SCID mice, PUMC-MESO1 and PUMC-MESO4 demonstrated tumorigenicity, while PUMC-MESO3 remained non-tumorigenic after 3 months of observation. Histopathological examination confirmed their mesothelioma origin through positive staining for mesothelial markers including calretinin, WT-1, and D2-40. Genomic analysis revealed characteristic PM genomic alterations including mutations in BAP1, NF2, and TP53, along with CDKN2A deletions. Transcriptomic analyses revealed heterogeneous molecular features among the three cell lines. Although the PUMC-MESO cell lines displayed distinct clustering patterns relative to the CCLE mesothelioma cohort, each retained transcriptomic similarities to specific established mesothelioma models. Drug sensitivity assays further demonstrated heterogeneous responses to standard therapeutic agents.This study reports the establishment and characterization of three novel PM cell lines. These models recapitulate key aspects of PM biology, exhibit diverse therapeutic responses, and provide a valuable new resource for investigating disease mechanisms and advancing precision oncology research.© 2026 The Author(s). Thoracic Cancer published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Vestibular schwannomas (VSs) are common benign tumors of the cerebellopontine angle, often treated with surgery or stereotactic radiosurgery to preserve nerve function. Malignant transformation of VS (MTVS) is exceedingly rare and has been primarily associated with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1), neurofibromatosis type 2-related schwannomatosis (NF2-SWN), or prior radiation exposure. However, cases of MTVS occurring without these risk factors are rare and remain poorly understood.A 58-year-old woman without neurofibromatosis underwent subtotal VS resection in 2019, with stable residual tumor and no adjuvant treatment. In 2023, she developed acute neurological decline, and imaging suggested malignant transformation or a new tumor. Surgery confirmed a high-grade neoplasm, likely leiomyosarcoma or malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor, with genetic analysis revealing no NF1 or NF2-SWN mutations. She received adjuvant stereotactic radiation therapy, and at the 3-month follow-up, imaging showed stable residual disease. However, she continued to experience persistent neurological deficits, including facial weakness, ataxia, and intention tremor, with a Karnofsky Performance Scale score of 60%.MTVS is extremely rare without neurofibromatosis or prior radiation therapy, potentially driven by surgical inflammation or unidentified genetic alterations. While increased surveillance after subtotal resection may be considered, more research is needed to identify predictive markers and guide clinical management. https://thejns.org/doi/10.3171/CASE251003.
Nitrogen-rich covalent organic frameworks (COFs) show strong potential in catalysis, sensing, and energetic materials, however achieving both ultrahigh nitrogen content and high crystallinity remains challenging. Here, we develop a stepwise oxidation strategy to obtain three triazole-triazine-tetrazine co-constructed COFs (TTTsT-H, TTTsT, and TTTsT-O): First, a highly crystalline COF TTTsT-H with an ultrahigh nitrogen content was obtained under optimized experimental conditions; Subsequently, TTTsT and its N-oxide derivative TTTsT-O were synthesized using a stepwise oxidation strategy. The results demonstrate that these frameworks possess significant potential for photocatalysis and energetic materials. Notably, TTTsT is an efficient photocatalyst for H2O2 (hydrogen peroxide) production, achieving a yield of 2798.4 µmol g-1 h-1. The theoretically predicted detonation performance of TTTsT-O is comparable to that of currently used high explosives RDX (Hexogen) and HMX (Octogen), and is far superior to that of TNT (Trinitrotoluene), highlighting its potential as a low‑sensitivity, thermally stable energetic material.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Implant-associated infections remain a major challenge due to biofilm formation and uncontrolled antibiotic release from conventional coatings. This study presents an enzyme-responsive nanoparticle-based coating designed to enable localized and on-demand antibiotic delivery on titanium implant surfaces. Hyaluronidase-sensitive ciprofloxacin-loaded mesoporous silica nanoparticles (MSNs) coated with hyaluronic acid (MSN-CIP-HA) were synthesized and deposited onto titanium substrates via electrophoretic deposition (EPD). The nanoparticles and coated surfaces were characterized in terms of morphology, surface properties, and wettability. Drug release behavior was evaluated under physiological (pH 7.4) and infection-mimicking acidic (pH 5) conditions in the presence and absence of hyaluronidase. After 72 h, ciprofloxacin release from coated titanium reached 0.51 μg at pH 7.4 without enzyme and increased to 2.63 μg in the presence of hyaluronidase. Similarly, release at pH 5 increased from 0.93 to 3.31 μg following enzyme addition, indicating effective enzyme-triggered degradation of the HA coating layer. Antibacterial performance against Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus aureus demonstrated reduced bacterial adhesion on coated surfaces and enhanced antibacterial efficacy under enzyme-responsive conditions. The developed coating therefore combines anti-adhesive surface properties with controlled, infection-triggered antibiotic release, limiting unnecessary drug exposure while improving localized antibacterial activity. These findings highlight the potential of HA-coated MSN coatings as smart implant surface modifications for reducing implant-associated infections and biofilm formation.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Biomedical Materials Research Part A published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The grain aphid, Sitobion avenae Fabricius (Hemiptera: Aphididae), is a vector of yellow dwarf viruses and an important pest of cereals. In a European context, it is the only cereal aphid known to have developed knockdown resistance (kdr). In this study, we genetically screened key regions of the voltage-gated sodium channel (VGSC) known to harbour resistance-conferring mutations. Specimens were sampled across multiple locations and years in Ireland, enabling detection of individuals carrying the L1014F mutation and screening for additional mutations, including those associated with super-kdr.The frequency of the L1014F substitution in samples from Irish suction towers is consistent with frequencies reported in other studies from Ireland and the UK, and we found no strong evidence of an increase in kdr frequency despite the greater reliance on pyrethroids. Importantly, the analysis identified two additional VGSC substitutions corresponding to M918L and L932F, which have been implicated in reduced pyrethroid sensitivity in other insect species. This is the first report globally of these mutations in S. avenae.We identified a super-kdr variant (M918L) and an L932F variant in the grain aphid S. avenae. Because these were detected in archived samples, their impact on in-field resistance in this species is currently unknown; however, based on observations in other aphid species, including cereal aphids, they likely influence resistance phenotypes. Regular monitoring of the incidence and spread of known and emerging insecticide-resistant clonal lineages is essential to preserve the effectiveness of our limited insecticide arsenal and to determine when field efficacy may be insufficient for pest control. © 2026 The Author(s). Pest Management Science published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Society of Chemical Industry.© 2026 The Author(s). Pest Management Science published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Society of Chemical Industry.
Resistance to pyrethroid insecticides has become more frequent in triatomines, associated with point mutations in their target site, the voltage-gated sodium channel (VGSC). These mutations have been reported in Argentina, Bolivia and Mexico, by means of nested PCR. In Chile, the repeated intradomiciliary presence of the vector Triatoma infestans after spraying may be related to resistance; however, target-site mutations have yet to be evaluated. Using a partial sequence of the VGSC as a search query for the T. infestans genome, the complete VGSC gene sequence was obtained. Ten primer pairs were generated with Primer-BLAST and tested in silico by BLAST against the T. infestans genome and against the NCBI nucleotide database (nr) to discard those with low specificity. Conventional PCRs were performed with T. infestans' DNA and the remaining primers, selecting one pair based on sensitivity and the absence of nonspecific bands. The 993 bp sequenced product allows for the evaluation of the three point mutations reported in the VGSC of triatomines. Primer validation was performed with L925I mutation-positive samples from Argentina. Chilean samples from five localities were also amplified and Sanger sequenced in search of mutations. The L925I mutation was detected only in the Argentinean controls. None of the variants evaluated were found in the Chilean samples. These primers will allow rapid evaluation of point mutations in the VGSC, which may be associated with reduced affinity of pyrethroids for their target site; thereby facilitating insecticide resistance surveillance.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Gastric cancer (GC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, especially in advanced stages with limited treatment efficacy. Rhizoma Paridis (RPS), a traditional Chinese medicinal herb, has shown promising antitumor activity, yet its potential anti-GC mechanisms have not been systematically investigated.An integrated computational and experimental framework was established to explore the anti-GC activity and potential mechanisms of RPS. First, the active compounds of RPS and their corresponding targets were identified using UPLC, LC-MS analysis and machine learning (Ml)-driven data mining. Then, the key target genes were determined by the gradient boosting algorithms and their associations with GC were investigated by the deconvolution algorithms, unsupervised clustering and dimensionality reduction methods. Further, the potential compound-target interactions and the mechanism of RPS for treating GC were supported by the molecular docking, Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, in vivo and in vitro experiments.A total of 118 phytochemicals were identified from RPS, from which 40 candidate bioactive compounds and six hub genes, i.e., BAX, BCL2, VEGFA, KDR, CASP3 and CTNNB1 were prioritized. Functional enrichment analyses suggested that these targets were mainly associated with apoptosis, angiogenesis and Wnt/β-catenin-related signaling pathways. Transcriptomic, prognostic, immune infiltration and single-cell analyses further supported their relevance in GC. Docking and MD simulations indicated favorable binding stability between representative compounds and the key targets. Experimental studies demonstrated that RPS inhibited GC cell proliferation and tumor growth, accompanied by apoptosis-related and angiogenesis-associated molecular changes.RPS exhibits significant anti-GC activity and may exert its effects through the coordinated regulation of apoptosis-, angiogenesis- and Wnt/β-catenin-associated pathways. This study provides a systems-level framework integrating computational analyses with biological validation to investigate the pharmacological effects of complex herbal medicines and offers mechanistic insights into the anti-GC potential of RPS.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Malaria remains a major public health challenge in the Democratic Republic of Congo. To address the lack of contemporary entomological data, this four-year study characterized key entomological parameters in Kinshasa Province. We conducted a prospective observational cohort study (2018-2022) in three health areas. Adult mosquitoes were sampled using CDC light traps and pyrethrum spray catches. Sporozoite rates were estimated using ELISA, and trap collections were used as proxy measures of host-seeking mosquito activity to estimate light trap rates and annualized entomological inoculation rate (EIR) estimates. Insecticide susceptibility of adult females was assessed using WHO tube tests. A generalized estimating equations model evaluated the effects of key variables on mosquito abundance. A total of 1,449 Anopheles were collected, with 50% from rural, 49% from peri-urban, and 1% from urban areas. The species captured were An. gambiae s.l. (85%), An. paludis (11%), and An. funestus (4%). An. gambiae s.l. was significantly more abundant indoors and after 10 PM. The overall EIR estimate was 4.7 infective mosquitoes per trap per year, with An. gambiae s.l. contributing the highest transmission intensity. A localized increase in the transmission intensity associated with An. paludis was observed in one site during the rainy season, although mosquito numbers were small. Resistance to DDT and pyrethroids was widespread, with an estimated 0.94 frequency of the kdr L1014F mutation. Bendiocarb and pirimiphos-methyl remained effective. This study found that An. gambiae s.l. remains the predominant malaria vector in Kinshasa. The findings also suggest a possible contribution of An. paludis to malaria transmission in some rural settings, although additional longitudinal studies with larger sample sizes are needed. Because sporozoite detection was based on ELISA, additional molecular confirmation studies would be valuable. Continued entomological surveillance is essential to track biting behavior and resistance patterns and ensure that selected interventions remain effective.Copyright: © 2026 Vulu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
BACKGROUND The green peach aphid, Myzus persicae, is a major pest and virus vector in central European agriculture. Following the neonicotinoid seed treatment ban and under climate warming, its populations have increased, raising concerns about insecticide resistance. RESULTS This study assessed the phenotypic resistance and underlying target-site mutations in Czech populations of M. persicae from oilseed rape between 2022 and 2024. Bioassays with cypermethrin, pirimicarb, and acetamiprid revealed extreme and increasing pyrethroid resistance, whereas susceptibility to pirimicarb and acetamiprid remained high or improved compared to earlier periods. Molecular screening of 140 field-collected aphids identified four sodium channel mutations (L1014F, M918L, M918T, L932F) and the ace2 mutation S431F. Survival under insecticide selection strongly highlighted the functional role of specific mutations: the M918L mutation was the most prevalent among cypermethrin survivors (68.75%), confirming it as the primary mechanism of pyrethroid target-site resistance in these populations. Conversely, the S431F mutation reached complete fixation (100%) in pirimicarb survivors, serving as a definitive marker for carbamate resistance and indicating a high risk of rapid resistance development upon intensive use. Significant negative correlations between M918L and L1014F/L932F suggest divergent resistance lineages. CONCLUSION No clear geographical patterns were observed, indicating that resistance is driven by agricultural practices rather than regional factors. These findings highlight the rapid evolution of pyrethroid resistance and underscore the need for integrated pest management, including molecular monitoring and careful insecticide rotation, to sustain control of M. persicae in Czechia. © 2026 The Author(s). Pest Management Science published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Society of Chemical Industry.© 2026 The Author(s). Pest Management Science published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Society of Chemical Industry.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42536112 is a review article
D-limonene (D-Lim) is a monocyclic monoterpene and the principal component of citrus essential oils; however, the potential mechanisms underlying its neuroprotective effects in traumatic brain injury (TBI) remain incompletely elucidated. By integrating network pharmacology, weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), molecular docking, and experimental validation, this study systematically investigated the potential mechanisms through which D-Lim exerts neuroprotective activity. Database analyses and in vivo experiments showed that the anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effects produced by D-Lim may be related to the p38 MAPK/NF-κB signaling axis and activation of the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. Molecular docking and RT-PCR experiments indicated interactions between D-Lim and potential target proteins, including Icam1, Kdr, and Dpp4. HE and Nissl staining demonstrated that D-Lim ameliorated TBI-induced neuronal injury. Moreover, D-Lim had no observable effects on major organs and showed no peripheral toxicity, suggesting its favorable applicability for TBI intervention. Following early intervention with D-Lim, the inflammatory response induced by TBI was attenuated, which may be associated with the activation or modulation of the p38 MAPK, PI3K/AKT, and NF-κB p65 signaling pathways. These results indicate a potential acute protective role for D-Lim under prophylactic or early-intervention conditions, provide insights into TBI intervention, and establish a theoretical basis for potential preventive strategies.
Since its first detection in 2010, Aedes albopictus has spread across northern Algeria, where vector control relies on the use of chemical insecticides. This study aimed to evaluate the susceptibility of Ae. albopictus populations from Algiers to commonly used larvicides and adulticides, as well as to characterize the underlying resistance mechanisms. Eggs were collected from three sites in Algiers. The susceptibility of larvae to temephos and Bacillus thuringiensis israelensis (Bti), as well as that of adults to permethrin, deltamethrin, malathion, and bendiocarb was evaluated using WHO bioassays. Genotyping of knockdown resistance (kdr) mutations was performed via PCR and sequencing. Metabolic resistance mechanisms were investigated using CDC bottle bioassays. The larvae were found to be susceptible to temephos and Bti. Bioassays on adults demonstrated susceptibility to deltamethrin, suspected resistance to permethrin, and resistance to malathion and bendiocarb. Genotyping revealed low frequencies of heterozygous kdr mutations (V1016G, I1532T, F1534C/S). Synergist assays highlighted the key role of esterases in malathion resistance, a minimal involvement of glutathione S-transferases and an unexpected antagonistic effect of cytochrome P450 monooxygenases. Although larvicides remain effective, resistance to organophosphates, carbamates, as well as suspected resistance to permethrin, has been detected. Esterase-mediated metabolic resistance and kdr mutations may contribute to this profile. These findings highlight the need for resistance monitoring and integrated vector control to ensure sustainable control of Ae. albopictus.
Insecticide resistance is a significant challenge for mosquito population control and disease prevention. This research investigated knockdown resistance (kdr) mutations V410L, V1016I, and F1534C in Aedes aegypti mosquitoes to address crucial gaps in understanding insecticide resistance evolution and management. Six common kdr genotypes were obtained through genetic crosses of three unique parental strains from the same location in Florida, USA. Through topical application of deltamethrin on both males and females, we quantified the resistance profiles of each genotype and sex. Triple homozygous mutants were over 52 times more resistant than the susceptible Rockefeller lab strain, with resistance ratios of the five other genotypes ranging from 8 to 19. We demonstrated that the resistant haplotypes I 1016-C 1534 (on V410L mutant background) and L 410-I 1016 (on F1534C mutant background) were incompletely recessive. Using these data in a simulation model, we show that the selective advantage is not constant but fluctuates within the window of selection. Selective advantage depended on the frequency of the resistance haplotype at the time of treatment, and both the level and dose of exposure. Finally, resistance profiles revealed that male mosquitoes had similar resistance profiles to females when sex and weight differences were accounted for, indicating that males could be used for resistance surveillance, which could enhance surveillance efforts. Overall, this study provides the first detailed quantification of dose-response curves and selection advantages for both sexes across multiple kdr genotypes. These results offer critical insights into the evolutionary dynamics of insecticide resistance and support the development of evidence-based strategies for more sustainable mosquito control.© 2026 The Author(s). Evolutionary Applications published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Staphylococcus aureus is a major opportunistic pathogen in humans; airborne exposure to this bacterium is associated with increased respiratory disease incidence. The airway epithelium, serving as the primary barrier against inhaled pathogens, is particularly vulnerable to bacterial invasion. However, the underlying mechanisms and relevant biomarkers for this exposure remain underexplored. In this study, we evaluated the toxic effect mechanisms and biomarkers of S. aureus aerosol exposure to human bronchial epithelial (16HBE) cells at the air-liquid interface using microRNA (miRNA) sequencing. We found that exposure to aerosols containing 3.21 × 105 to 6.54 × 106 CFU/m3S. aureus impaired cell viability and proliferation, induced mitochondrial damage, and triggered inflammation by upregulating IFN-γ expression. The bacterium secreted pore-forming toxins, coagulases, nucleases, enterotoxins, and β-hemolysins to lyse cells and induced a cytokine storm by modulating the expression of hla, coa, nuc, sea, and hlb genes. 16HBE cells primarily upregulated Toll-like receptors (TLR1 and TLR5), mucins (MUC1), and epidermal growth factor receptors (KGF7 and TEP1) to recognize invasion, activate the immune response, and protect the cell membrane. miRNA sequencing suggested that medium-concentration exposure induced more differentially expressed genes (DEGs), particularly downregulated DEGs, than other concentrations. Twelve miRNAs uniquely shared across the exposure groups were considered potential biomarkers of S. aureus aerosol exposure. Regulatory networks analysis showed that miR-19a-3p, miR-18a-5p, miR-106b-5p, and miR-142-5p could influence cancer-related pathways and the MAPK signaling pathway by targeting genes such as CRK, NCOA3, MAPK1, and TGFR2 and may serve as biomarkers of 16HBE cell damage. Overall, this study elucidates the injury mechanisms and potential biomarkers of S. aureus aerosol exposure in respiratory cells, advances the understanding of airborne pathogen-induced toxicity.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This paper introduces an approach for inferring the gene regulatory networks in vortioxetine-induced glioblastoma cells to investigate vortioxetine's systemic effects. The approach uses an ordinary differential equation (ODE)-based inverse problem to evaluate the drug-induced gene interactions within the GLIOMA and ERBB pathways, which are deeply intertwined in cancers, by using time-series datasets. Time-series datasets were generated in triplicate at 0, 3, 6, 9, 12, and 24 h. The results of the ERBB pathway confirmed that PIK3R5 was commonly activated, while JUN, as a proto-oncogene in glioblastoma, was inhibited by genes across all three datasets. In particular, PIK3R5 was commonly activated by PAK6 in all three datasets. The results of the GLIOMA pathway confirmed that CALML6 was commonly activated, while CDK4 and CCND1, which are mostly overexpressed in human cancers, were inhibited across all three datasets. Additionally, an analysis of the independent datasets generated at 6 and 22 h after the vortioxetine injection identified the most distinct variable genes between the two time points: CRK (1.96) and JUN (-3.02) for the ERBB signaling pathway, and BRAF (1.30) and MAP2K2 (-1.92) for the GLIOMA pathway. We conclude that vortioxetine, an antidepressant, decreases JUN, a proto-oncogene involved in the ERBB signaling pathway, and CCND1, another proto-oncogene involved in the GLIOMA pathway, over time in glioblastoma cells.
Lung cancer is one of the leading causes of cancer-related deaths globally, with smoking being the primary risk factor, though environmental exposures and genetic mutations also play significant roles. Lung cancer arises when abnormal lung cells grow uncontrollably, leading to over 2 million new cases and nearly 1.8 million deaths globally. Drug resistance, especially to targeted therapies, is a key challenge, as tumours often adapt and become unresponsive. Multitargeted drug design, which targets multiple pathways involved in tumour growth, offers a promising solution to overcome resistance and improve treatment efficacy. In this study, we identified several lung cancer-associated proteins: CK2, Ran-Importin β complex, HNGF, Human Survivin, CRK-II adaptor protein, AKR1B10, and tRNA dihydrouridine synthase 2, with respective PDB IDs 1JWH, 1IBR, 1SG1, 1XOX, 2DVJ, 4XZL, and 4XP7. We conducted molecular docking using DrugBank's library, employing HTVS, SP, and XP, followed by pose processing with MM/GBSA. Our multitarget docking analysis identified Quercetin-3-O-Phosphate as the top compound, a quercetin derivative found in fruits and vegetables such as onions, apples, berries, broccoli, and citrus. The compound showed docking and MM/GBSA scores ranging from -5.835 to -11.627 Kcal/mol and -14.28 to -47.07 Kcal/mol, respectively, and the key interacting residues with their counts include 10ASP, 9LEU, 9LYS, 7ALA, 7ARG, 7TYR, 6GLN, 5ASN, 5GLU, 5ILE, and 5VAL. We also performed and analysed DFT and pharmacokinetics in detail, which supported its further evaluation as it met all the required criteria. We conducted a 5 ns WaterMap simulation, which confirmed the interactions and highlighted key hydration sites that support the complex's stability. A 100 ns MD simulation using the TIP3P water model showed minimal deviation and fluctuations, indicating stable interactions and the trajectories used for MM/GBSA calculations, assessing binding free, which reinforced the stability of the complexes and helped rank the best candidates. All results indicate that Quercetin-3-O-Phosphate holds strong potential for lung cancer treatment, though experimental validation is needed for clinical confirmation.Copyright: © 2026 Alahdal et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
CYSTEINE-RICH RECEPTOR-LIKE PROTEIN KINASEs (CRKs) play an important role in plant development and stress responses. One of the best described members of the Arabidopsis CRK family is CRK2, which was proposed as a crucial regulator of intercellular transport facilitated by plasmodesmata (PD). As intercellular channels allowing symplastic communication, PD-mediated transport is predominantly regulated by callose synthase (CALS)-mediated callose deposition. This process can impact not just the distribution of molecules between adjacent cells, but also the symplastic loading of vascular tissue, thereby influencing plant stress responses and developmental processes. Here we described the overlapping expression pattern of genes encoding phylogenetically closely related CALS1 and CALS3. Both CALSs were phosphorylated in vitro by CRK2, and the genetic interaction between genes encoding CRK2 and CALS1 or CALS3 revealed their impact on callose deposition, rosette growth, primary root length, and development, represented as a decreased number of true leaves. Importantly, we observed significant accumulation of starch in crk2 mutant plants, especially in developmentally older leaves, which was reverted by the independent introduction of cals1.5 and cals3.1 into the crk2 mutant background. The observed starch accumulation was accompanied by photosynthesis inhibition. We propose that the growth and developmental alterations of crk2 are caused by decreased phloem loading, which resulted in starch accumulation in source organs, and subsequent sink tissue starvation. Our results propose CRK2 as negative regulator of CALS1 and CALS3 regulating source to sink transport, which impacts plant growth and development.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society of Plant Biologists.
Although K64-type carbapenem-resistant hypervirulent Klebsiella pneumoniae (CR-hvKp) has been reported, its molecular characteristics remain unclear. This study aimed to characterize the phenotypic and molecular features of K64 putative hypervirulent CR-K. pneumoniae (phvKp)..Two K64 putative hypervirulent CR-K. pneumoniae isolates were recovered from a patient in the emergency intensive care unit of a Chinese teaching hospital. Antimicrobial susceptibility testing was performed using broth microdilution method. Multilocus sequence typing (MLST) was used for molecular typing. Virulence was assessed using a mouse infection model, and whole-genome sequencing was performed to analyze resistance and virulence genes.Both isolates were resistant to aztreonam, cephalosporins, carbapenems, quinolones, and aminoglycosides, but susceptible to trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, colistin, tigecycline, and ceftazidime/avibactam. MLST identified both isolates as ST11. The mouse infection model showed elevated virulence of two clinical isolates, which was significantly higher than that of the classical non-hypervirulent reference strain ATCC 13883. Genomic analysis identified 133 virulence- and pathogen-associated genes, including those involved in fimbriae synthesis, iron acquisition, and enterobactin production. Both isolates harbored the rmpA gene, but string tests were negative. Sequence alignment revealed >80% similarity among 13 rmpA-harboring IncHI1B plasmids.K64 ST11-type phvKp has emerged in China, exhibiting multidrug resistance and putative hypervirulence characteristics. The increase in virulence of K.pneumoniae involves multiple factors, and these factors act independently or the synergistic effect leads to elevated virulence potential.Copyright: © 2026 Shao et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Acral melanoma (AM) is the most common subtype of melanoma in non-Caucasian populations, typically arising in weight-bearing areas of the sole. Currently, the majority of patients lack effective targeted therapeutic drugs. V-crk avian sarcoma virus CT10 oncogene homolog-like (CRKL), an adaptor protein, plays a pivotal role in the tumorigenesis and progression of various cancers. However, its function in the development of plantar acral melanoma remains unclear. In this study, clinical data and bioinformatic analyses reveal that CRKL is highly expressed in acral melanoma and is closely associated with Yes-associated protein (YAP) activity. Mechanistic studies further demonstrate that CRKL directly interacts with YAP, suppressing its ubiquitination and thereby preventing its proteasomal degradation. In addition, CRKL inhibits autophagy, further reducing YAP protein degradation. Notably, mechanical loading from weight-bearing activity is found to activate the YAP signaling pathway. Therefore, CRKL and mechanical stress synergistically to enhance YAP pathway activation, ultimately driving the initiation and progression of plantar melanoma. In conclusion, this study identifies CRKL as an oncogenic factor in plantar melanoma, elucidates the molecular basis underlying the predilection of this melanoma subtype for weight-bearing sites, and highlights CRKL as a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of plantar melanoma.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
CT10 regulator of kinase (CRK) and CRK-Like (CRKL) are important Src homology 2 (SH2)- and SH3-domain containing signaling adaptors, which drive cell adhesion, motility, differentiation, and proliferation. Their genetically defined and overlapping roles include facilitating proper development of the vertebrate central nervous system. All four members of the SH2-domain containing (SH) protein family are enriched in YXXP motifs, which when the initial tyrosine is phosphorylated form the preferred binding motif of CRK family SH2 domains. We show that ABL kinase drives tyrosine phosphorylation of SH protein YXXP motifs and induces their direct binding to the SH2 domains of CRK family adaptors. The implications of the interactions between CRK/CRKL and SH proteins include signal attenuation and relocation of CRK adaptor signaling.© 2026 The Author(s). FEBS Letters published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Immune complexes (ICs) play a central role in autoimmune diseases, where they accumulate in tissues, activate Fc gamma receptor-expressing cells, and promote chronic inflammation. However, the role of ICs as directional migratory cues for human leukocytes remains poorly defined. Here, we identify pro-inflammatory Slan + non-classical monocytes (SlanMo), a CD14dim CD16++ monocyte subset, as the only blood leukocyte population that migrates directionally toward ICs. Using in vitro transmigration assays, we demonstrate that SlanMo respond to ICs in a concentration-dependent, gradient-dependent, and CD16-mediated manner. Strikingly, SlanMo follow IC gradients with high specificity, enabling their active and directed migration towards high concentrations of ICs. This migration is independent of G protein-coupled receptor signaling, and is, therefore, not dependent on chemokines. Guided by our phosphoproteomic analysis of migrating SlanMo, we identified ROCK, Lyn, crk, FAK, and moesin as relevant signaling proteins. Our transcriptomic profiling of SlanMo after migration on immobilized ICs versus uncoated surfaces revealed enrichment of pathways linked to SLE as well as an upregulation of genes associated with antigen processing, endocytosis, and protein digestion. These findings suggest that ICs can act as directional cues for selective leukocyte recruitment of pro-inflammatory SlanMo which may be of relevance in IC-rich environments such as in SLE.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
In the current scenario, Klebsiella pneumoniae-induced pediatric lung inflammation is a major health issue, made worse by multidrug-resistant infection. Mainly, Carbapenem-resistant K. pneumoniae (CR-K.pneu) infections are rising due to antimicrobial resistance, highlighting the urgent need for effective treatments. Additionally, lung inflammation can complicate the treatment of lung cancer, as it may hinder therapeutic responses. Herein, the study aimed to explore the adipose mesenchymal stem cells derived exosomal vesicles (ADMSCs-EVs) loaded with rifampcin (Rf) against CR-K. pneu infection in mice model. ADMSCs-EVs were extracted by the ultracentrifugation method and characterized via UV-visible spectra, FTIR, TEM, DLS and Zeta potential. It exhibited strong antioxidant potential confirmed via DPPH assays. The antibacterial assay was significantly inhibited at 100 μg/ml of ADMSCs-EVs-Rf against CR-K.pneu. Light microscopy displays biofilm eradication at the doses of 75 and 100 μg/ml. In vitro biocompatibility of ADMSCs-EVs-Rf enhances proliferation, suppresses oxidative stress, accelerates wound healing, and significantly attenuates inflammatory cytokine production in LPS-induced pediatric NHBE cells. Further, the in vivo antibacterial activity of ADMSCs-EVs-Rf was examined in a CR-K.pneu infection mice model. The treatment significantly decreased MDA levels while increasing the antioxidant markers GSH, SOD, and CAT (p < 0.05), indicating attenuation of oxidative stress. The biocompatibility of ADMSCs-EVs-Rf showed low toxicity at 5 mg/ml. ADMSCs-EVs-Rf may be useful for treating inflammation, fixing damaged cells, clearing out alveolar fluid, and getting rid of microbes. Hence, ADMSCs-EVs-Rf might be a promising option for treating CR-K. pneu infections, particularly those affecting children's respiratory systems and lung cancer.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Nitrogen and potassium fertilization played a central role in promoting the growth of wheat. A three-year (2022-2024) split-plot field experiment was conducted to investigate the impacts of combining controlled-release urea (CRU) with controlled-release potassium chloride (CRK) on nutrient leaching and use efficiency in wheat fields. In this study, the control plot received neither nitrogen nor potassium applications (Control). The main plots were designated based on nitrogen fertilizer types, including controlled-release urea (CRU) and conventional urea (Urea). The sub-plots were assigned potassium fertilizer rates using CRK, specifically 50 kg ha-1 (LCRK), 75 kg ha-1 (MCRK), and 100 kg ha-1 (HCRK). The wheat yields in CRU treatments witnessed a modest average increase of 2.2% from 2022 to 2024 compared to ordinary urea treatments. In the final season, nitrogen recovery efficiency augmented by 10.9%. Furthermore, CRU treatments boosted the number of wheat spikes and grains per spike but had no notable influence on the thousand-grain weight (TGW) of wheat. Consequently, the yield enhancement observed in CRU treatments was primarily attributed to an increase in tiller count of wheat. The application of CRU×MCRK modestly improved wheat leaf photosynthesis during its mid to late growth stages, nutrient use efficiency and potential environmental benefits.Copyright © 2026 Yang, Li, Zhang, Jia, Li, Geng, Lei, Li, Zhang, Lang and Huo.
Gastric cancer remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, with limited sensitivity to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) representing a major obstacle to effective chemotherapy. Licochalcones, bioactive chalcones derived from licorice, have demonstrated broad-spectrum anticancer activities, yet the role of Licochalcone C in enhancing 5-FU sensitivity in gastric cancer remains unexplored.This study aimed to investigate the antitumor effects of Licochalcone C on gastric cancer and evaluate its potential to enhance 5-FU chemosensitivity, along with elucidating the underlying molecular mechanisms.The antitumor and chemosensitizing effects of Licochalcone C were systematically evaluated using human gastric cancer cell lines, patient-derived organoids, clinical specimens, and a mouse xenograft model.Cell proliferation, colony formation, migration, invasion, and cell cycle distribution were assessed by standard assays. Biotin-labeled Licochalcone C pull-down with mass spectrometry, molecular docking, cellular thermal shift assay, and co-immunoprecipitation were employed for target identification. Western blot and transcriptomic analyses defined the signaling mechanisms.Licochalcone C inhibited gastric cancer cell proliferation, migration, and invasion while inducing G1 arrest, and markedly enhanced 5-FU sensitivity in cell lines, organoids, and xenograft models. Mechanistically, Licochalcone C directly bound RAC3, suppressing the RAC3-mediated PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway and downregulating P-glycoprotein. Clinically, RAC3 overexpression correlated with advanced stage, poor survival, and unfavorable chemotherapy response.Licochalcone C functions as a RAC3-targeting chemosensitizer that enhances 5-FU efficacy by inhibiting PI3K-AKT-mTOR signaling and P-glycoprotein expression, supporting its development as a therapeutic adjuvant for gastric cancer.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42364420
Skipped: PubMed ID 42352065 is a review article
Two transition-metal complexes, rac-di-bromido-[1-(di-methyl-amino-meth-yl)-2-(pyrrolidin-1-ylmeth-yl)ferrocene]zinc(II), [FeZnBr2(C5H5)(C13H22N2)] (rac-1), and rac-di-bromido-[1-(di-methyl-amino-meth-yl)-2-(pyrrolidin-1-ylmeth-yl)ferrocene]cadmium(II), [FeCdBr2(C5H5)(C13H22N2)] (rac-2), crystallize in the form of yellow blocks and were characterized by single-crystal X-ray diffraction. They were synthesized using rac-1-(di-methyl-amino-meth-yl)-2-(pyrrolidin-1-ylmeth-yl)ferrocene (rac-3) as starting material, which is characterized here for the first time. Both, the zinc center in complex rac-1 and the cadmium center in complex rac-2 exhibit a tetra-hedral coordination geometry. Nevertheless, there are some differences in terms of the bond lengths as well as the bond angles. Furthermore, not only the space groups, P21/n for rac-1 and P212121 for rac-2, but also the crystal packings differ from each other, which can be seen in different configurations of the pyrrolidine substituents. To investigate the inter-molecular inter-actions leading to these structural differences, Hirshfeld surface analyses were performed. They showed that H⋯H inter-actions make the largest contribution to the crystal packing in both structures, with 69.0% and 66.6% for rac-1 and rac-2, respectively.© Moritz et al. 2026.
We report on the reductive C-C coupling of alkenes at a single main-group-metal center. Treatment of the bis(boryloxy)aluminyl compound K[Al{OB(NDippCH)2}2] with ethene results in clean formation of a five-membered alumina-cyclopentane via alkene dimerization. In the case of propene, similar chemistry occurs regio- and diastereoselectively to generate the corresponding rac-3,4 disubstituted metallacycle. Isolation of an intermediate alumina-cyclopropane and quantum chemical analysis allows the mechanism of these transformations to be elucidated, with coupling between the most hindered carbon centers in propene being driven by the necessity to minimize steric interactions with the bulky aluminum-bound ligand scaffold. Although these transformations are thermodynamically favorable and physically irreversible (no alkene regeneration under vacuum), chemical reversibility can be effected through the addition of small unsaturated molecules (CO, CO2, alkynes), which leads to C-C bond scission and the loss of one or both alkene equivalents. These findings expand the reactivity landscape of low-valent Al(I) reagents and showcase main-group-mediated pathways that parallel classical transition metal chemistry.
Bladder cancer (BCa) patients frequently develop resistance to platinum-based therapies, particularly cisplatin. The link between chemoresistance and glycolysis has been well documented. Emerging evidence suggests that Rac family small GTPase 3 ( RAC3 ) may play significant roles in cisplatin resistance. This study investigated the underlying molecular mechanisms. Clinical specimens (cisplatin-sensitive/resistant BCa tissues and matched adjacent normal tissues) were collected from hospital. Cisplatin-resistant cell lines [T24-derived cisplatin-resistant cells (T24-DDP) and 5637-derived cisplatin-resistant cells (5637-DDP)] were generated through stepwise dose escalation. RAC3 , Myc-binding protein 2 (MYCBP2 ), P21-activated kinase 1 ( PAK1 ), Ki-67, and glycolysis markers were analyzed by quantitative PCR, immunohistochemistry, and Western blot. RAC3 ubiquitination was assessed via co-immunoprecipitation. Cell viability, apoptosis, and glycolytic metabolism were evaluated using the cell counting kit-8 assay, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase deoxyuridine triphosphate/flow cytometry, and ATP/lactate assays, respectively. Glycolytic flux was measured by extracellular acidification rate. Additionally, BCa xenograft models were established for in-vivo detection. Elevated RAC3 expression and glycolytic activity were observed in BCa tissues, with further augmentation in cisplatin-resistant tumors. RAC3 overexpression promoted cell viability, glycolysis, invasion, and migration in cisplatin-treated T24 and 5637 cells. Conversely, RAC3 knockdown exerted the opposite effects and restored cisplatin sensitivity in resistant T24-DDP and 5637-DDP cells. Notably, the sensitizing effect of RAC3 knockdown was reversed by PAK1 overexpression. Furthermore, MYCBP2 regulated RAC3 stability, as MYCBP2 overexpression enhanced RAC3 ubiquitination, suppressed glycolysis, and sensitized resistant cells to cisplatin. These effects were abrogated by the proteasome inhibitor MG132, confirming proteasome-dependent degradation of RAC3 . MYCBP2 -mediated ubiquitination of RAC3 modulates the PAK1 /pyruvate dehydrogenase E1 subunit alpha axis to regulate glycolytic activity, ultimately determining cisplatin sensitivity in BCa.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
We report the palladium-catalyzed one-pot synthesis of enantiopure 20-, 30-, and 40-membered cyclophanes shaped by axially twisted allene units. Under Cs+-template, the two smaller macrocycles (2 and 3) are favored over the largest (4). X-ray studies reveal that rac-2 assembles into homochiral helices that pack to form channels, while rac-3 forms racemic dimers. These shape-persistent hosts, with unique chiral 3D cavities, undergo guest-induced conformational switching and (enantio)-selectively bind diols and ammonium cations, including hydroxycarboxylic acids and α-hydroxyammoniums, as evidenced by diagnostic ECD shifts.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive malignancy with limited therapeutic options. Rho-associated coiled-coil containing protein kinase (ROCK) signaling is a promising target, known to drive tumor progression through cytoskeletal remodelling and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). However, its role in disrupting epithelial integrity via adherens and tight junctions in TNBC remains underexplored. Fasudil-D-6h is a novel derivative of the clinically approved ROCK inhibitor fasudil. This study investigates the anti-tumor efficacy of fasudil-D-6h and its novel mechanism of action in TNBC.The effects of fasudil-D-6h and the reference inhibitor HA-1100 on cell proliferation (CCK-8) and apoptosis (flow cytometry) were assessed in MDA-MB-231 and MCF-7 cells. Transcriptome sequencing of fasudil-D-6h-treated MDA-MB-231 cells identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and enriched pathways. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed. The in vivo efficacy was evaluated in a nude mouse model of subcutaneous MDA-MB-231 tumors. qRT-PCR and Western blotting validated the expression of ROCK1/2 and key adherens junction pathway components (Cdc42, Rac3, Src, ZO-1, Occludin, Claudin-1).Fasudil-D-6h significantly inhibited proliferation and induced apoptosis in TNBC cells. Transcriptomic analysis revealed 8,092 DEGs, with significant enrichment in the adherens junction pathway. Accordingly, fasudil-D-6h treatment in vitro and in vivo significantly downregulated ROCK1/2 and robustly upregulated the expression of CDC42, RAC3, SRC, ZO-1, OCCLUDIN, and CLAUDIN-1. In the mouse model, fasudil-D-6h treatment led to a significant reduction in tumor mass and volume.Our findings demonstrate that the novel ROCK inhibitor fasudil-D-6h exerts potent anti-tumor effects in TNBC. Its mechanism of action is distinctively linked to the restoration of genes critical to adherens and tight junction integrity. Given its derivation from the clinically viable fasudil, fasudil-D-6h presents a strong translational potential as a novel therapeutic agent for TNBC.© 2026 Liang et al.
We report the discovery of a hitherto unknown reactivity consisting of self-coupling of a benzimidazolato-pyridinium zwitterion (1) leading to compound rac-3 with an intriguing atropoisomeric structural scaffold. This novel compound rac-3 was structurally characterized and investigated by DFT and TD-DFT calculations. Compound rac-3 shows rare single-component white light dual emission properties, which may pave the way for new opportunities in organic chemistry for luminescent materials, biology, or catalysis.
Although post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) occurs more in women than in men, how sex influences trauma susceptibility remains largely unknown. We developed the arousal-based individual screening (AIS) model, which identifies mice as susceptible/resilient to PTSD-like phenotypes, based on changes in startle reactivity induced by 24-hour-restraint. To test the hypothesis that sex drives trauma susceptibility/resilience, we applied a multidisciplinary approach involving electrophysiological, structural, and synaptoproteomic analyses of the hippocampus in susceptible and resilient mice of both sexes. Female mice were more susceptible to the trauma than male mice and exhibited long-lasting PTSD-like phenotypes. Long-term potentiation (LTP) was impaired in hippocampal slices of both male and female susceptible mice, whereas short-term presynaptic forms of plasticity and vesicle recycling remained unchanged. Increased apical dendritic length and augmented basal dendritic spine density of pyramidal neurons were found in CA1 of male susceptible mice, while decreased dendritic length of granule neurons was uncovered in the dentate gyrus of female resilient mice. Although minor synaptoproteomic changes were observed, bioinformatic analysis suggested sex- and susceptibility/resilience-dependent profiles. Notably, several pathways involving RHO Family GTPases were found to be upregulated exclusively in susceptible male mice. Accordingly, the Rac1/Rac3 GTPases inhibitor EHop-016 rescued the hippocampal LTP impairment in susceptible male mice but not in susceptible female mice. Our findings suggest that the AIS model mirrors sex differences in PTSD susceptibility/resilience highlighting associated functional, molecular and structural alterations. This model may represent a critical first step for studying sex-dependent pathophysiological mechanisms subserving PTSD susceptibility and for sex-tailored drug development.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
The epidermis is a stratified epithelium in which keratinocytes differentiate as they move from basal to suprabasal layers, a process during which tissue integrity relies on the coordinated remodeling of intercellular junctions and the cytoskeleton. Unlike simple epithelia, which form a continuous zonula adherens, suprabasal cells in the epidermis lack a canonical junction belt, with E-cadherin-based junctions distributed across the entire cell surface, highlighting distinct regulatory mechanisms that remain poorly understood. Here, we identify the CDC42 guanine nucleotide exchange factor FGD1, mutated in Aarskog-Scott syndrome, as a regulator of suprabasal junction architecture. Using stratified human keratinocytes and quantitative imaging, we show that loss of FGD1 induces elongated radial actin bundles and tortuous, tension-associated adherens junctions resembling the stress fiber-anchored discontinuous (focal) adherens junctions described in endothelial cells. These defects are accompanied by altered tissue mechanics. Inhibition of ROCK or myosin II restores junction organization, demonstrating that FGD1 restrains actomyosin contractility to promote suprabasal junction maturation. Several disease-associated FGD1 variants fail to rescue these defects. Together, our findings identify FGD1 as a regulator of suprabasal junction maturation.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560626 is a review article
Effective anti-tumor immunity is critically dependent on the functional capacity and robust infiltration of type-1 helper T (Th1) cells into the tumor microenvironment (TME). However, persistent antigenic stimulation leads to T cell exhaustion, determining the efficacy of immunotherapy approaches such as immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs). A key barrier to successful immunotherapy therapy remains the impaired motility and infiltration of exhausted T cells. To address this, we investigated the dual impact of anti-PD-1 and anti-CTLA-4 blockade on the migratory efficacy of ex vivo generated exhausted Th1 (Th1-Ex) cells. Recognizing the limitations of 2D culture, we utilized a 3D microfluidic (lab-on-a-chip) platform to simulate the TME's complex physical and chemical constraints, alongside in vivo patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models. While ICI treatment did not alter static adhesion, it distinctly modulated focal adhesion dynamics. Critically, in the highly relevant 3D microfluidic environment, ICI-treated Th1-Ex cells exhibited significantly enhanced motility and directional persistence compared to untreated cells. Mechanistically, anti-PD-1/CTLA-4 treatment activated signalling pathways associated with both amoeboid and mesenchymal-like migration, but functional inhibition identified RAC1-dependent mesenchymal-like migration as the predominant contributor to the enhanced migratory response. These results were strongly corroborated in vivo, where the anti-PD-1/CTLA-4 combination conferred remarkable and selective tumor and lymph node infiltration capacity to the adoptively transferred Th1-Ex cells. Collectively, our findings highlight a dual role for ICIs on restoring Th1 cell functionality and actively promoting tumor-directed migration by altering adhesion-migration pathways, offering novel mechanistic insights for optimizing immunotherapies in solid tumors.
Clostridioides difficile infection is primarily attributed to toxin A (TcdA) and toxin B (TcdB), the major mediators of epithelial damage and intestinal inflammation. However, strain-dependent differences in pathogenicity have been reported, suggesting that additional bacterial factors may contribute to host inflammatory responses.To compare the inflammatory activity of culture supernatants from the single clinical isolate LIBA-5751/NAPCR1/RT012/ST54 and reference C. difficile strains under toxin-containing and glucose-repressed conditions.C. difficile strains, including the clinical isolates LIBA-5751/NAPCR1/RT012/ST54 and LIBA-5758/NAP1/RT027/ST01 and the reference strains VPI10463/RT003/ST046 and 630/RT012/ST54, were grown anaerobically in tryptose-yeast extract-thioglycolate broth with or without 1% glucose. Glucose-associated reduction of toxin activity was assessed by electrophoretic protein profiling, cytotoxicity assays, and Rac1 glucosylation analysis. Biological activity was evaluated in a mouse ligated ileal loop model by macroscopic examination, histopathology, cytokine quantification, and myeloperoxidase activity.Glucose supplementation did not substantially alter bacterial growth but markedly reduced detectable toxin-associated bands, cytopathic activity, and Rac1 glucosylation. Toxin-containing supernatants from LIBA-5758/NAP1/RT027/ST01 and VPI10463/RT003/ST046 produced the most pronounced epithelial injury. Under the same conditions, LIBA-5758/NAP1/RT027/ST01, VPI10463/RT003/ST046, and LIBA-5751/NAPCR1/RT012/ST54 induced robust inflammatory responses. Under glucose-repressed conditions, epithelial damage was no longer evident, and inflammatory activity was markedly reduced in LIBA-5758/NAP1/RT027/ST01, VPI10463/RT003/ST046, and 630/RT012/ST54. In contrast, supernatants from LIBA-5751/NAPCR1/RT012/ST54 retained substantial inflammatory activity, including increased TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, and myeloperoxidase activity, despite the absence of overt epithelial damage.The clinical isolate LIBA-5751/NAPCR1/RT012/ST54 retained substantial inflammatory activity under glucose-repressed conditions despite markedly reduced detectable toxin-associated activity. This phenotype was not observed to the same extent in the other strains examined, including the RT012/ST54 reference strain 630. These findings identify a strain-specific inflammatory phenotype observed in LIBA-5751/NAPCR1/RT012/ST54 and support further investigation into the extracellular factors that may contribute to inflammatory responses in C. difficile.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Atrophic non-union is a significant clinical challenge associated with impaired early inflammation resolution and delayed osteogenesis. Although the osteoimmune microenvironment is critical for bone healing, the specific molecular mechanisms regulating this process require further elucidation.We utilized a 6-mm critical-size rat femoral defect model and time-series RNA sequencing to explore potential molecular mechanisms. Additionally, primary mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMMs) were used for in vitro validation of in vivo findings.Histological and transcriptomic analyses identified 1-2 weeks post-fracture as a critical window characterized by significant inhibition of the canonical BMP9-SMAD signaling cascade in the non-union microenvironment. In vivo, this defect was associated with sustained accumulation of M1 macrophages, impaired reparative M2 polarization, and osteoclast-mediated bone resorption. In vitro studies further validated the in vivo results, confirming that BMP9 promotes M2 macrophage polarization, upregulates chemokines Ccl2 and Ccl7, and inhibits RANKL-induced osteoclastogenesis through the canonical SMAD-ID1 pathway.Early loss of canonical BMP9-SMAD signaling disrupts the balance between immune cell recruitment and bone remodeling, contributing to the development of atrophic non-union in critical-size defects. Targeted modulation of the BMP9-driven osteoimmune axis may offer a potential therapeutic strategy for impaired bone healing.Copyright © 2026 Zhong, Shao, Zhou, Huang and Liu.
Neutrophils have been implicated in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis in multiple studies. This study aimed to determine the effects of flavonoids (quercetin and luteolin) and vitamin C on neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation and regulation of NET markers, including circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) and myeloperoxidase (MPO). Additionally, we assessed the expression of NADPH oxidase complex subunits and superoxide anion generation in neutrophils.Whole blood samples were collected from patients with atherosclerosis. Neutrophils were stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and the effects of flavonoids and vitamin C on NET release, NADPH oxidase subunit expression (p47phox, p67phox, Rac1), and superoxide production were evaluated.Atherosclerotic patients showed increased NETosis, with elevated NET release, MPO, and cfDNA levels. Expression of NADPH oxidase subunits p47phox and p67phox and superoxide anion generation were significantly higher compared to controls. LPS further enhanced these effects. Treatment with quercetin, luteolin, and vitamin C reduced NET formation, NADPH oxidase expression, and superoxide production in stimulated neutrophils.Flavonoids and vitamin C modulate NET formation, likely by affecting NADPH oxidase activity and reactive oxygen species production, suggesting potential anti-inflammatory effects relevant to atherosclerosis. Further studies are warranted to evaluate the potential application of these compounds as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of atherosclerosis.Copyright © 2025 Termedia & Banach.
Polarized epithelia are essential for organ function, and disruption of epithelial polarity is a hallmark of many diseases, including cancer. We previously showed that the RhoG-specific guanine nucleotide exchange factor SGEF interacts with the Scribble polarity complex to regulate epithelial junction assembly in 2D monolayers. However, its role in epithelial morphogenesis and lumen formation in 3D remains unknown. Here, we combined quantitative morphometric analysis with long-term live-cell imaging to investigate the role of SGEF during MDCK cyst development. SGEF KD disrupted normal lumenogenesis, producing enlarged cysts with multiple collapsed lumens accompanied by reduced E-cadherin, β-catenin, and ZO-1 expression. Loss of SGEF also altered the distribution of the actomyosin network. Re-expression of WT SGEF restored the normal phenotype, whereas restoration of E-cadherin and ZO-1 partially rescued lumen architecture, identifying the loss of junction integrity as a key driver of the morphogenetic defects. Unexpectedly, live-cell imaging revealed increased motility and frequent cyst fusion in SGEF-KD cysts. Restoring E-cadherin levels abolished cyst migration, while inhibition of matrix metalloproteinases markedly restored normal cyst volume and lumen architecture, identifying extracellular matrix remodeling as an additional contributor to the SGEF-deficient phenotype. Together, these findings identify SGEF as a key regulator of epithelial morphogenesis, coordinating junction integrity, actomyosin organization, lumen formation, and collective migration.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are usually treated as unrelated, yet depressive symptoms occur in a substantial minority of people with ALS and may appear early. These symptoms are heterogeneous and may reflect syndromal MDD, psychological and functional burden, fatigue, apathy, pseudobulbar affect, frontotemporal involvement, sleep or respiratory disturbance, medication effects, or shared affective vulnerability. A proposed pruning-continuum model suggests both disorders may share vulnerability in microglia-mediated synaptic pruning, with ALS amplified by autophagy and protein-quality-control failure and MDD by RNA-processing, stress, and immune dysregulation. We performed an exploratory secondary transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS)/pathway-integration analysis to test whether predefined nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN)-nominated pathways map onto this vulnerability.We integrated precomputed S-PrediXcan outputs for MDD and ALS across available brain-relevant tissues. Ten Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways were predefined from a prior re-analysis of NMN-associated transcriptional programs in aged mouse metabolic tissues. Mouse-derived candidates were represented by human ortholog symbols before the human TWAS screen. The analysis tested nominated pathways rather than the 35-gene NMN-robust list as a standalone set. Cross-tissue screening used Stouffer Z aggregation, tissue-level Wilcoxon testing, competitive permutation testing, percentile bootstrap intervals, pairwise disease statistics, Levene variance tests, concordance measures, and leave-one-out sensitivity analysis. No analysis was treated as confirmatory or evidence of causal mediation.MDD showed the strongest Stouffer-based exploratory signal in the synaptic vesicle cycle pathway, with a meta-across-tissue Stouffer Z of 3.41 and a wide bootstrap 95% confidence interval of -0.46 to 7.40. This signal did not survive competitive permutation testing (p = 0.1222) or Wilcoxon testing (p = 0.1926). The strongest tissue-level result occurred in the amygdala (Z = 4.057; nominal Wilcoxon p = 0.0093), although tissue-level permutation testing was not performed in the multi-gene-set run. ALS showed no significant meta-across-tissue enrichment among the 10 nominated pathways but displayed candidate gene-level signals in autophagy, endosomal, and vesicle-related genes, including TBK1 and C9orf72. Exploratory Levene tests indicated variance heterogeneity in the regulation of the actin cytoskeleton, endocytosis, and neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction; the actin cytoskeleton and endocytosis remained significant in pooled global false discovery rate (FDR) analysis. Fourteen genes were influential in at least two focus pathways, including EGF, KNG1, FGF8, RAC1, PAK1, PAK2, RAF1, MAPK1, and FGFR1.These findings are hypothesis-generating. MDD and ALS may stress overlapping cellular logistics processes while engaging largely different genes. MDD showed the strongest exploratory pathway-level signal in synaptic vesicle biology, whereas ALS showed candidate gene-level coherence in autophagy and endosomal processes without significant meta-pathway enrichment. NMN/NAD+ repletion is not established as a treatment for MDD, ALS, or their comorbidity. These findings generate hypotheses about NAD+-linked cellular stress pathways for future preclinical and clinical studies.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
Immune-resistant colorectal cancer (irCRC), represented by microsatellite stable/proficient mismatch repair (MSS/pMMR) tumors, responds poorly to immune checkpoint blockade (ICB). Here, we developed an ultrasound-targeted nanodroplet destruction (UTND) strategy combined with surface anti-PD-L1-decorated nanodroplets (PPP@P@map) to enhance ICB responsiveness in MSS colorectal cancer. In CT26 and CMT93 murine subcutaneous MSS colorectal cancer models, PPP@P@map combined with UTND markedly suppressed tumor growth compared with control treatments. Single-cell RNA sequencing identified CAF_Pi16 as a candidate therapy-associated cancer-associated fibroblast subset that showed a treatment-related increase after PPP@P@map + UTND, which was further supported by flow cytometry and multiplex immunofluorescence validation. Mechanistically, UTND induced oxidative stress in tumor cells and promoted the generation of advanced glycation end products (AGEs), which activated the AGE-RAGE/PKCα/NF-κB pathway in CAF_Pi16 and increased CCL7 secretion. CAF_Pi16-derived CCL7 provided a CCR2-dependent functional cue to CD8+ T cells. In purified CD8+ T cells, CCL7 activated NF-κB-related signalling, enhanced activation and cytotoxic effector features, and promoted NKG2D expression; these effects were attenuated by CCR2 blockade or NF-κB inhibition. Functionally, CCL7 enhanced CD8+ T cell-mediated tumor-cell killing, whereas NKG2D blockade reduced this effect and weakened the antitumor efficacy of PPP@P@map + UTND in vivo. Together, these findings reveal a UTND-induced tumor cell-CAF_Pi16-CCL7-CD8+ T-cell signalling axis that enhances NKG2D-associated antitumor immunity and provides a mechanistic basis for further investigation of UTND-based strategies to improve ICB responsiveness in MSS/pMMR colorectal cancer.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Acetaminophen (APAP)-induced acute liver injury (AILI) is characterized by extensive cell death and sterile inflammation, with substantial accumulation of myeloid cells in necrotic areas. Macrophages are critical elements in acute hepatic inflammation and resolution. Piezo1 is a mechanically activated ion channel that modulates innate immune responses and senses microenvironmental cues.The functions of myeloid Piezo1 in AILI remain elusive. This study aimed to determine whether myeloid Piezo1 regulates inflammation resolution and macrophage-mediated clearance during AILI.To generate the AILI mouse model, APAP was administered intraperitoneally to Piezo1fl/fl and Piezo1ΔLysM mice, and samples were collected at 6, 24, and 48 h after treatment. Bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) were stimulated with APAP-treated normal mouse liver cell line (AML12) supernatant to mimic sterile inflammatory response. Liver histology, immunostaining, gene expression analysis, flow cytometry, intracellular Ca2+ measurements, and phagocytosis/efferocytosis assays were performed.Piezo1 exerted protective effects against hepatotoxin-induced liver necrosis and promoted liver recovery after APAP overdose. In vitro assays revealed that Piezo1 alleviated the inflammatory response in bone marrow-derived macrophages. Mechanistically, myeloid Piezo1 manifested a more reparative phenotype and enhanced phagocytic activity by upregulating MerTK expression. Specifically, Piezo1 acted through Ca2+ influx to regulate the expression of MerTK at the target binding stage. Inhibition of MerTK induced more pro-inflammatory mediators and reduced phagocytic ability, phenocopying the Piezo1 deficiency. Separately, Piezo1 modulated cytoskeletal rearrangement via the FAK/Rac1 axis during target internalization. Pharmacological activation of Piezo1 promoted pro-resolution marker expression and enhanced efferocytosis/phagocytic clearance in vitro.This study identified myeloid Piezo1 as an important regulator of macrophage-mediated inflammation resolution and dying-cell clearance during AILI, providing a basis for future exploration of Piezo1-related pathways in macrophage-mediated liver recovery.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Myogenesis is a tightly regulated process by a cascade of well-coordinated events and pathways. Other than the known myogenic regulator factor (MRF) family including Myf5, MyoD, Myogenin and MRF4, our previous study identified BAMBI is involved in muscle regeneration and siRNA-mediated BAMBI knockdown impairs C2C12 myoblast differentiation. However, the potential role of BAMBI in determining cell linage and fate specification in C2C12 myoblast remains unexplored. In this study, we analyzed the RNA-seq data and discovered that BAMBI expression was dynamically regulated during proliferation and differentiation period of C2C12 myoblasts. By establishing cell line with the loss of function and gain of function of BAMBI in C2C12 myoblasts, we demonstrated that BAMBI deletion totally abrogated myogenic differentiation of C2C12 myoblast cells. In addition, loss of BAMBI converts C2C12 myoblasts to brown adipocytes through downregulation MyoD and upregulation of Prdm16. Conversely, BAMBI overexpression strikingly enhanced myogenic differentiation of C2C12 myoblasts by upregulating MyoD expression. Taken together, our results establish that BAMBI is a vital myogenic factor involved in myoblasts differentiation and as a key regulator governing the balance between myogenic and adipogenic lineage in C2C12 myoblast cells.© the author(s).
Intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD) is a degenerative disease characterized by degradation of the extracellular matrix (ECM) in the nucleus pulposus, disruption of the fibrous ring structure, and imbalance of the inflammatory microenvironment. It is the main cause of chronic low back pain. Its pathogenesis is closely related to cellular aging and immune inflammation. Aging nucleus pulposus cells release pro-inflammatory factors such as IL-6 and TNF-α through the secretion of senescence associated secretory phenotype (SASP), recruiting M1 macrophages to infiltrate and forming a vicious cycle of "aging inflammation matrix destruction." This study systematically analyzed the molecular mechanism by which kaempferol improves IVDD through multi-target regulation by integrating bioinformatics analysis, animal experiments, and cell models. Bioinformatics screening revealed significant abnormal expression of genes such as AURKB, CCNB1, AXL, NEK6, and PTK2 in IVDD degenerated tissues. Downregulation of CCNB1 induced G2/M phase arrest by inhibiting CDK1 activity, while activation of GSK3B inhibited the Wnt signaling pathway by phosphorylating β-catenin, exacerbating ECM catabolism. Proteomics further confirms that the NOX4 mediated ROS-p38 MAPK pathway promotes cell apoptosis and SASP secretion. Immune infiltration analysis showed that M1 macrophages were significantly enriched in degenerated intervertebral discs, and their secreted IL-6 and TNF-α amplified the inflammatory cascade by activating the NF-κ B pathway. Animal experiments have shown that intervention with kaempferol can partially restore the intervertebral disc height index (DHI), downregulate the levels of IL‑1β and TNF‑α, upregulate the expression of CCNB1 and AURKB (which were downregulated in the IVDD model), thereby alleviating G2/M phase arrest and promoting cell cycle progression, inhibit AXL and PTK2, and reduce macrophage infiltration. Mechanistically, kaempferol inhibits NOX4 activity by clearing ROS, blocking the vicious cycle of oxidative stress‑inflammation; by regulating the NEK6/NF‑κB axis, the expression of MMP‑3 and ADAMTS‑4 is reduced, delaying ECM degradation; and improve the immune microenvironment by promoting macrophage polarization towards the M2 phenotype. In addition, kaempferol can reverse the metabolic imbalance mediated by GSK3B. This study reveals for the first time that kaempferol upregulates core gene networks such as AURKB and CCNB1 while suppressing AXL through the "anti‑inflammatory anti‑aging" dual pathway, thereby breaking the "aging‑immunity" crosstalk and restoring cell cycle homeostasis, providing a new strategy for natural compound intervention in IVDD treatment.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
KIF21A, a member of the Kinesin-4 family of motor proteins, is involved in the regulation of microtubule dynamics and intracellular transport, with emerging evidence suggesting its potential role in cancer progression. In this study, we performed an integrative analysis of over 3825 human phosphoproteomics studies to characterize site-specific phosphorylation of KIF21A. Three predominant phosphosites were identified in KIF21A (S853, S1212, and S1239) with the highest detection frequency across phosphoproteomics studies, and were analyzed for co-regulation patterns to identify potential kinase associations and functional networks. Phosphosite S853 showed a strong association with cytoskeletal organization and cortical microtubule stabilization complexes (CMSCs) components, including KANK1 (S186), PHLDB2 (S513, S42) and CLASP1 (S600, S572, S646), indicating its role in cytoskeletal organization. Upstream kinase analysis identified potential regulators, such as PAK2, RPS6KA1/A3, RPS6KB1, CHEK1/2 and CDK18/16 with site-specific variability in their associations with KIF21A predominant sites. Interestingly, phosphosite-specific correlation analysis between KIF21A and candidate kinases revealed that the KIF21A S1239 phosphosite exhibited tumor-specific correlations with CDK18 across multiple cancer types. Functional enrichment revealed that co-regulated phosphoproteins were involved in cytoskeleton regulation, cell cycle regulation, and carcinogenesis. Pan-cancer analysis demonstrated dysregulated expression of KIF21A in multiple tumor types, with stage-associated upregulation in selected cancers. Gene-level validation further supported these findings, showing consistent positive correlations between KIF21A and key regulators such as CTNND1 and PTK2, as well as other cytoskeleton and cancer-associated genes. Overall, this study highlights site-specific phosphorylation as a key regulatory mechanism of KIF21A and suggests its involvement in cytoskeleton-associated signaling networks in cancer.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) develops within an immunologically complex tumor microenvironment that is heavily shaped by infiltrating myeloid cells. Immune-based treatment strategies such as atezolizumab plus bevacizumab have shown promising therapeutic benefits, but patients do not experience durable responses. This shortfall motivates current efforts to elucidate signaling programs that sustain pro-tumor myeloid states. Focal adhesion kinase (FAK, encoded by PTK2) integrates adhesion, growth factor, proliferative, and inflammatory signaling, but the contribution of FAK in myeloid cells to HCC has not been tested. In this study, we used human HCC transcriptomic analyses and a myeloid-specific FAK knockout mouse model to investigate the role of myeloid-intrinsic FAK in HCC progression. Analysis of the PRHCCdb single-cell database showed PTK2 expression was detectable in myeloid populations. Higher PTK2 expression in myeloid-rich TCGA-LIHC tumors was associated with a significantly worse overall survival. Further analysis of the NCI-CLARITY single-cell data set localized the strongest FAK-associated transcriptional programs to a monocyte-derived macrophage state marked by VCAN and COLEC12. Specifically, this population demonstrated hypoxia-associated and inflammatory signatures. To test the functional role of FAK in myeloid cells, we generated myeloid-specific FAK knockout (LysMCre;FAKf/f) mice. Deletion of FAK did not alter baseline liver morphology, liver-to-body weight ratio, or proliferation. When challenged with the MET/β-catenin-driven HCC model via hydrodynamic tail vein injection, myeloid-specific FAK deletion did not significantly affect survival, gross tumor burden, or tumor proliferation. However, tumors from the LysMCre;FAKf/f mice showed significantly reduced F4/80+ macrophage accumulation compared with FAKf/f controls. These findings indicate that myeloid-specific FAK promotes macrophage accumulation, but its loss alone is insufficient to alter tumor burden, proliferation, or survival in this oncogene-driven HCC model.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Carcinogenesis published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
This study aimed to elucidate the therapeutic mechanisms of Chai Gui Zexie Decoction against non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) through an integrated approach combining metabolomics, network pharmacology, and experimental validation. A subcutaneous NSCLC metastasis model was established in C57BL/6 mice using Lewis lung cancer cells. Mice were randomly assigned to model, low-dose, and high-dose Chai Gui Zexie Decoction groups (n = 6 per group). Tumor growth was monitored over 18 days. Serum metabolomics analysis using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry was performed to identify differential metabolites and blood-absorbed components. Network pharmacology was employed to predict therapeutic targets, followed by Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis. Western blotting was conducted to validate the expression of core targets (IGF1R, PTK2, SRC) in tumor tissues. High-dose Chai Gui Zexie Decoction significantly inhibited tumor growth compared to the model group (P < 0.05). Metabolomics identified 13 blood-absorbed components, primarily enriched in phenylalanine metabolism. Network pharmacology revealed 195 overlapping targets between the decoction and NSCLC, with 10 core targets identified, including SRC, PTK2, and IGF1R. KEGG analysis implicated key pathways such as PI3K-Akt signaling, EGFR TKI resistance, and Ras/MAPK signaling. Western blot validation confirmed that high-dose treatment significantly downregulated IGF1R, PTK2, and SRC protein expression in tumor tissues (P < 0.05). Chai Gui Zexie Decoction exerts therapeutic effects against NSCLC through a multi-component, multi-target mechanism involving the regulation of RTK signaling pathways and phenylalanine metabolism. These findings provide a scientific basis for its clinical application and highlight potential therapeutic targets for NSCLC treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Breast cancer (BRCA) is a major health threat to women and often carries a poor prognosis. Succinylation is closely associated with cancer metabolism; however, research on succinylation-related genes (SRGs) in BRCA remains relatively limited. This study first identified differentially expressed genes between normal and BRCA groups in the TCGA cohort and intersected them with known SRGs to obtain differentially expressed SRGs (DE-SRGs). Univariate Cox and LASSO Cox regression analyses were used to screen the DE-SRGs, followed by multivariate Cox regression to develop a succinylation-related prognostic model. Subsequently, patients were categorized into high and low succinylation-related risk score (SRS) groups according to the median score. Two groups were then compared for differences in immune microenvironment characteristics, somatic mutation burden, and drug sensitivity. Additionally, the expression levels of the signature genes were validated via qRT-PCR. This study developed a prognostic risk model for BRCA patients based on 13 SRGs (ACOT4, ALDH3A1, B3GALT1, IFNG, MMP1, NFKB2, PCSK6, PTK2, SERPINA1, SHMT2, SIRT7, ST3GAL1, and SUCLA2). A markedly elevated infiltration of immune cells was observed in the low-SRS group, including B cells, Mast cells, and Macrophages. The tumor mutational burden was notably lower in the low-SRS group. Drug sensitivity analysis suggested that the high-SRS BRCA patients might be more susceptible to FTI-277 and GNF-2. qRT‑PCR results showed that ACOT4, IFNG, MMP1, NFKB2, PCSK6, PTK2, SHMT2, SIRT7, and ST3GAL1 were significantly upregulated in human BRCA cell lines, while ALDH3A1, B3GALT1, and SUCLA2 were significantly downregulated. Our findings highlight the prognostic value of SRGs in BRCA, laying the groundwork for its potential use in guiding personalized treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is driven by oncogenic KRAS in roughly 90% of cases, and KRAS-pathway inhibition has finally become clinically active. Durable benefit, however, will require identifying the adaptive and baseline vulnerabilities that shape response to KRAS inhibition. Two resistance mechanisms have been proposed separately in the literature - receptor-tyrosine-kinase bypass of KRAS, and dependence on the adhesion kinase FAK - but whether they are one target class or two, and which should partner a KRAS inhibitor, is unresolved. We integrate public perturbation, dependency, and survival data to nominate them as mechanistically separable candidate combination partners. Two findings define the separation. First, KRAS loss increases ERBB2/3 receptor expression. This appeared in both an inducible genetic KRAS-extinction model and, independently, in five PDAC lines treated with pharmacological KRAS-G12C/D inhibitors, while MAPK output collapsed as expected. The signal was clearest for ERBB2 and in the genetic model; in the small pharmacological cohort the effect was modest and its confidence intervals crossed zero, so we treat ERBB2/3 up-regulation as a candidate adaptive response - ERBB2-dominant and ERBB3-compatible - not a proven resistance mechanism. Second, focal adhesion kinase (FAK/PTK2) is the top-ranked standing druggable dependency within the KRAS/Src/RTK/adhesion network we examined (essential in 58% of pancreatic lines), yet it is not induced by KRAS shutdown. FAK dependency is present at baseline and, in DepMap, is statistically independent of a line's KRAS dependency (Spearman ρ = +0.05, n.s.) - a genuinely standing vulnerability rather than a KRAS-rebound effect. The candidate adaptive response and the standing dependency are not positively co-regulated across the perturbed lines (pooled Spearman ρ = -0.43, but n = 8 and n.s., so this cannot by itself establish independence); we therefore treat them as separable on mechanistic grounds - each nominated by different data and engaged by a different drug - rather than as statistically demonstrated independent programs. A Src-centered signaling-landscape analysis associates patient prognosis with the coordinated invasion-and-RTK program these nodes organize, rather than with any single transcript; this program remains prognostic after adjustment for a conventional EMT/stromal signature, which does not (Src-neighborhood per-standard-deviation OS hazard ratio 1.9, p ≈ 3 × 10⁻⁵; EMT signature null on adjustment). Together these results motivate a concrete, testable hypothesis: that FAK inhibition (a standing dependency) and ERBB inhibition (a candidate induced adaptive response) are separable candidate partners for a KRAS inhibitor, best evaluated as distinct arms of a biomarker-stratified platform. They also clarify why single-agent Src inhibition - a non-oncogene dependency tested as monotherapy, without a KRAS backbone, in advanced rather than micro-metastatic disease - was not positioned to surface either mechanism. No protein-level, phospho-signaling, or combination-response validation is performed here; all findings are computational nominations that require experimental validation before any clinical inference.KRAS inhibition is associated with an induced ERBB2/3 up-regulation - ERBB2-dominant, ERBB3-compatible - directionally reproduced across genetic KRAS extinction and pharmacological KRAS-G12C/D inhibition; the pharmacological effect is modest and underpoweredGenome-wide dependency nominates FAK - essential in 58% of pancreatic lines - as the top-ranked standing candidate co-target within the KRAS network; FAK dependency is present at baseline, statistically independent of KRAS dependency, and not co-regulated with the induced ERBB response Patient prognosis associates with a Src-organized invasion-and-RTK program, not with SRC , KRAS , or any single-gene transcript, and this program stays prognostic after adjustment for a conventional EMT/stromal signature The two mechanisms are separable on mechanistic grounds - nominated by different data and not positively co-regulated (though the direct correlation is underpowered, n = 8, n.s.) - motivating a multi-arm platform that could test FAK and ERBB partner arms as distinct hypotheses rather than one bundled combination.Blocking KRAS in pancreatic cancer is now clinically feasible, but resistance is the obstacle. Using only public data, Chen and colleagues nominate two mechanistically separable candidate combination partners for KRAS inhibitors: a candidate ERBB2-dominant adaptive (putative escape) response that is induced when KRAS is blocked, and FAK, the top-ranked standing dependency in the KRAS network - present at baseline and independent of a tumor's KRAS dependency. Because the two are nominated by different data and are not positively co-regulated, they argue for a multi-arm KRAS-combination trial that tests each as a separate hypothesis - and they explain why the earlier single-agent Src trials, run without a KRAS backbone and in the wrong disease setting, were not positioned to detect either. The findings are computational nominations that require experimental validation.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) is a matter of great global public health importance; however, its current therapeutic effectiveness is deemed inadequate, and the range of therapeutic targets is limited. This study aimed to explore the efficacy of Bosutinib (BOS) in HCC and the underlying molecular mechanism.Bioinformatic analysis, machine learning, and online databases were used for screening targets and molecular docking studies. The mRNA level of mammalian polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1) was identified via real-time quantitative PCR. The protein expression of PLK1, PTK2, and USP9X was detected using western blot. Cell viability, apoptosis, and migration were evaluated by MTT, flow cytometry, and transwell assay. The angiogenesis capacity was determined using tube formation assay. The glucose consumption, lactate production, and ATP/ADP ratios were analysed using commercial kits. CO-IP assay was used to confirm the interaction between PLK1 and USP9X. A mouse model was used for exploring BOS in vivo. Immunochemistry was used to examine PLK1 and USP9X expression in tumours.This study illustrated that BOS inhibited proliferation, migration, angiogenesis, and glycolysis of HCC cells. Bioinformatic analysis and machine learning identified PLK1 as a core gene related to the glycolysis of HCC. PLK1 was upregulated in HCC and correlated with an unfavourable prognosis. Further evaluation showed that the anti-tumour effects of BOS were impaired by PLK1 overexpression. In addition, BOS treatment inhibited PLK1 protein level, while its mRNA level was not affected. Moreover, Bosutinib inhibited USP9X to reduce the deubiquitination of PLK1. CO-IP assay indicated that reduced USP9X could enhance the ubiquitination of PLK1 and reduce protein stability. Finally, BOS showed anti-tumour effects in a mouse model.This study revealed that BOS inhibited cell proliferation, migration, angiogenesis, and glycolysis via suppressing USP9X, thus reducing deubiquitination of PLK1 in HCC, demonstrating the potential of BOS for the treatment of HCC.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Vasculogenic mimicry (VM) is a non-endothelial mode of tumor vascularization in which aggressive cancer cells form vessel-like networks that support microcirculation, metastasis, and resistance to anti-angiogenic therapies. VM is particularly prominent in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), but its molecular regulators remain incompletely understood. Focal adhesion kinase (FAK) and its paralog, proline-rich tyrosine kinase 2 (Pyk2), are closely related non-receptor tyrosine kinases implicated in epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT), invasion, and metastasis in TNBC. However, their roles in VM have not been defined. Here we perform transcriptomic analysis of FAK and Pyk2 clinical expression patterns using TNMplot V2, DepMap, and patient cohort datasets to systematically dissect the distinct contributions of FAK and Pyk2 to VM in TNBC. Our in vitro tube formation assay shows that in TNBC cells, knockdown of FAK, but not Pyk2, results in failure to form robust 3D vessel-like networks in Matrigel. Similarly, overexpression of Pyk2, but not FAK, in TNBC cells results in poor vessel-like network formation. Consistent with these findings, analysis of two independent patient cohorts (TCGA-BRCA and METABRIC) revealed selective upregulation of FAK in TNBC, while Pyk2 was inversely associated with vasculogenic-mimicry-associated gene expression, supporting the opposing roles of the two kinases in patient tumors. Taken together, these findings establish that FAK and Pyk2 govern VM through non-redundant, kinase-specific, and functionally opposed mechanisms: FAK acting as a positive regulator of VM, and Pyk2 as a context dependent suppressor of VM at elevated levels. These results nominate FAK as a candidate target for suppressing VM-driven tumor perfusion in TNBC and suggest that dual FAK/Pyk2 inhibition warrants caution hypotheses that remain to be tested pharmacologically.
Infantile hemangioma (IH) and glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) are clinically distinct but share vascular and proliferative characteristics. This study aimed to identify common transcriptional and regulatory mechanisms between IH and GBM to uncover potential hub genes driving disease progression. Transcriptomic datasets GSE127487 (IH) and GSE108476 (GBM) were analyzed using the limma package in R. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were overlapped to identify shared signatures. Protein-protein interaction networks were built using STRING and analyzed in Cytoscape to determine hub genes via CytoHubba. Gene expression, promoter methylation, mutation, and CNV data were validated using OncoDB, GEO2R, UALCAN, and cBioPortal. Functional enrichment and drug sensitivity analyses were performed using DAVID and GSCA. Experimental validation included siRNA knockdown or overexpression of target genes in HemSCs, HemECs, U87-MG, and LN229 cells, followed by RT-qPCR, western blot, proliferation, colony formation, and wound-healing assays. A total of 142 common DEGs were identified, with four hub genes, including TP53, CTNNB1, TJP1, and PTK2 showing consistent dysregulation. TP53 and CTNNB1 were upregulated, while TJP1 and PTK2 were downregulated in both IH and GBM. Methylation, mutation, and CNV analyses supported their regulatory involvement. Functional assays confirmed that CTNNB1 knockdown and TJP1/PTK2 overexpression suppressed proliferation and migration. This integrative study identifies CTNNB1, TJP1, PTK2, and TP53 as shared hub genes, highlighting common molecular regulators of endothelial proliferation and tumor-associated phenotypes in IH and GBM, and suggesting potential therapeutic targets.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
In the developing human placenta, three subtypes of trophoblast cells, cytotrophoblasts (CTBs), extravillous trophoblasts (EVTs), and syncytiotrophoblasts (STBs), mediate critical functions essential for a successful pregnancy. CTBs constitute the stem/progenitor compartment and differentiate into STBs and EVTs within the floating and anchoring villi, respectively. STBs establish the maternal-fetal exchange interface and secrets human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), a hormone vital for the maintenance of early pregnancy. EVTs anchor the maternal endometrium and invade the uterine tissue to remodel maternal cells, supporting implantation and progression of pregnancy. In this study, we used human trophoblast stem cells (hTSCs) as a model system and performed quantitative, label-free liquid chromatography tandem Mass Spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) to profile proteome and phosphoproteome in TSC stem state (analogous to undifferentiated CTBs) and following their differentiation to STBs and EVTs. Through a multiomics approach, we integrated our proteomics data with global gene expression profiles to correlate cell type specific gene and protein expression during human trophoblast development. We also identified global phosphoproteome and analyzed kinases that are specifically active in hTSC stem state, as well as in differentiated STBs and EVTs. We experimentally validated specific kinases, such as BUB1B, PAK6, PKYMT1 and TNIK are essential for maintaining the hTSC stem state. Additionally, atypical protein kinase C isoforms PKC zeta is essential for STB development, while PTK2B, SRC, TRIO and LYN are important for EVT development. Our findings highlight key kinases uniquely required for specific stages of trophoblast development during human placentation and suggest that pharmacological inhibition of these kinases could negatively impact the placentation process during pregnancy.
BRAFV600E mutation is one of the most common oncogenic drivers in gliomas, sharing the highest incidence in pediatric low-grade gliomas (~ 20%) and being frequently associated with poor prognosis. Although combination therapies targeting both BRAFV600E and downstream MAPK signaling have been developed, their efficacy is substantially limited by acquired drug resistance. Consequently, identifying the underlying mechanisms of resistance and novel therapeutic vulnerabilities remains an urgent need.Using patient gene expression profiles, immunohistochemistry on glioma samples, glioma cell lines, and a Drosophila glioma model, we identified Protein Tyrosine Kinase 2 Beta (PTK2B) as a druggable vulnerability in BRAFV600E glioma. Loss-of-function studies were achieved by PTK2B knockdown in DBTRG-05MG cells and Fak knockout in Drosophila, assessing effects on tumor survival/proliferation. The underlying signaling mechanisms were investigated using RNA sequencing, proteomics and a suite of assays (e.g., Western blot, immunofluorescence, flow cytometry). Finally, the reciprocal compensatory mechanism between PTK2B and MAPK signaling was established in both cellular and Drosophila models, and the synergistic effect of their co-inhibition was validated in DBTRG-05MG and AM-38 cells.PTK2B and its Drosophila orthologue Focal adhesion kinase (Fak) are highly expressed in BRAFV600E/dRafGOF glioma, and their inhibition significantly suppresses tumor growth. Our studies revealed that PTK2B knockdown triggers potent ferroptosis in glioma cells through endoplasmic reticulum stress-induced autophagic flux disruption, a mechanism which is partially overlapped with the cell death induced by MAPK signaling inhibition. We uncovered the interlocking mechanism between highly expressed PTK2B and hyperactive MAPK signaling in BRAFV600E glioma, wherein suppression of either one prompts compensatory upregulation of the other, thereby attenuating tumor cell death under the stress. Simultaneous inhibition of PTK2B and MAPK signaling achieves strong synergistic anti-tumor effect, highlighting the therapeutic promise of this combination strategy.Our findings establish PTK2B as a critical regulator and co-targetable vulnerability in BRAFV600E glioma. We delineate a novel interlocking mechanism wherein PTK2B and MAPK engage in reciprocal negative feedback regulation, enabling adaptive resistance. This work provides a compelling mechanistic rationale for co-targeting PTK2B and MAPK to disrupt this survival axis and overcome therapeutic resistance.© 2026. The Author(s).
The unique cytoskeletal protein Septin7 is generally considered to be required for cytokinesis in yeast and mammals. Whole-body genetic ablation of Septin7 in mice is embryonically lethal. Septin7-deficient fibroblasts and HeLa cells are defective in cytokinesis and undergo obligate multinucleation. Surprisingly, lymphocyte- and myeloid-specific deletion of Septin7 in mice caused no detectable defects in blood lineage development, indicating dispensability of Septin7 for hematopoiesis. However, Septin7-deficient hematopoietic stem cells failed to engraft and establish donor chimerism after transplantation. To reconcile these contradictory findings, we examined the consequences of Septin7 deletion at distinct stages of hematopoiesis. Our results demonstrate that Cre-induced deletion of the floxed Septin7 allele is inefficient during the early stages of hematopoiesis, suggesting strong selection pressure against Septin7 deficiency at this stage. In contrast, deletion of Septin7 at the common lymphoid progenitor stage, as well as in Hoxb8-immortalized hematopoietic progenitors, is efficient and does not result in any noticeable defects in cell division. Taken together, our findings indicate that Septin7 is essential during early hematopoiesis but becomes dispensable at later stages.© 2026 Ronkina et al.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a highly lethal malignancy with rapid onset of drug resistance and high recurrence rate, partly driven by cancer stem cells (CSCs). In this study, we identified a small GTPases SEPTIN7 as a critical regulator of tumorigenesis and therapeutic resistance in HCC. SEPTIN7 was significantly upregulated in human HCC samples with high stemness scores and was positively associated with recurrence and poor prognosis. SEPTIN7 also promoted CSC self-renewal and conferred resistance to therapy in HCC cell lines and patient-derived organoids. Genetic knockout of Septin7 in hepatocytes suppressed HCC initiation and progression in both hydrodynamic tail vein injection (HTVI)- and diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-induced mouse models. Mechanistically, SEPTIN7 regulated the receptor tyrosine kinase FGFR4 via dual pathways, stabilizing FGR4 through inhibition of K48-linked ubiquitination at lysine 471 while simultaneously promoting RACK1-mediated phosphorylation at serine 440. These coordinated actions enhanced FGFR4 membrane recycling and downstream signaling, establishing a feedback loop that amplifies oncogenic output, promotes tumorigenesis, and drives therapeutic resistance. Disruption of this loop improved therapeutic efficacy in HCC by reducing FGFR4 stability and activity. Taken together, this study elucidates an unconventional SEPTIN7-FGFR4 regulatory network and provides a rationale for therapeutic strategies targeting this axis in the treatment of HCC.
Ovarian cancer is a highly lethal gynecologic malignancy, with metabolic reprogramming being a key contributor to its progression and therapeutic resistance. Although Secreted Frizzled-Related Protein 2 (SFRP2) has been implicated in various cancers, its functional role and molecular mechanisms in ovarian cancer, particularly in regulating metabolic pathways, remain poorly defined.Bioinformatic analyses of GEO (GSE66957) and TCGA-OV datasets were performed to assess SFRP2 expression and its prognostic correlation. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) on a human ovarian cancer tissue microarray was used for clinical validation. SFRP2 was knocked down or overexpressed in ovarian cancer cell lines (HEY and SK-OV-3) using lentiviral shRNA vectors. Functional assays (CCK-8, colony formation, apoptosis, migration) and metabolic assays (glucose consumption, lactate/ATP production, ECAR/OCR) were conducted. The mechanistic link between SFRP2, transcription factor CEBPA, and downstream target PTK2B was investigated using co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), nuclear-cytoplasmic fractionation, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), and dual-luciferase reporter assays. Rescue experiments were performed both in vitro and in vivo (xenograft mouse models).SFRP2 was significantly overexpressed in ovarian cancer tissues and cell lines, and high SFRP2 expression correlated with advanced disease and poor patient survival. SFRP2 knockdown suppressed cell proliferation, colony formation, and migration, while promoting apoptosis. Mechanistically, SFRP2 interacted with the transcription factor CEBPA, promoted its nuclear translocation, and enhanced its occupancy at the PTK2B promoter, thereby driving PTK2B transcriptional activation. This SFRP2/CEBPA/PTK2B axis further activates the AKT/mTOR signaling pathway, upregulating key glycolytic enzymes. Importantly, inhibiting glycolysis with 2-DG or knocking down PTK2B effectively reversed the oncogenic effects of SFRP2 both in vitro and in vivo.Our findings identify a novel SFRP2/CEBPA/PTK2B signaling axis that drives aerobic glycolysis and malignant progression in ovarian cancer, highlighting SFRP2 and PTK2B as potential prognostic markers and therapeutic targets.© 2026. The Author(s).
Multipolar mitotic spindles with extra centrosomes, first observed in cancer cells in the late nineteenth century, remain poorly understood. Here, to address how cells overcome proliferation arrest imposed by centrosome amplification, we describe a genome-wide screen revealing that downregulation of the Wnt, Hippo, Tpr53, PIDDosome, ciliary biogenesis, or autophagy pathways enables proliferation of mouse embryonic stem cells having PLK4-mediated centrosome amplification. We select the tumor suppressor, Guanine-nucleotide Activating Protein ARHGAP15, for further study as its depletion activates autophagy, overcomes centrosome amplification, and enables embryonic fibroblast proliferation. Reduction of centrosomes following ARHGAP15 depletion requires autophagy protein, ATG16L1, which associates with ARHGAP15 when the autophagy pathway is inactive. ARHGAP15 is opposed by Guanine-nucleotide Exchange Factor ARHGEF2, which is activated by the centriolar protein CEP170 to generate RAC1-GTP and promote autophagy. Together our findings add extra dimensions to the roles of RAC1 in cytoskeletal regulation and ARHGAP15 as a potential tumor suppressor.© 2026. The Author(s).
Selection to increase the frequency of useful mutations has left marks on animal genomes, genetic diversity, and population structure within populations. The study and investigation of these genomic regions can lead to the identification of genes related to economic traits or competence and adaptability. This study aimed to recognize genetic diversity, population structure, and selection signatures in Iranian (IB) and Afghan (AB) Baluchi sheep populations. In this study, 86 Iranian Baluchi and 15 Afghan Baluchi sheep were genotyped using Illumine Ovine SNP50K Beadchip arrays. Note that the sample size imbalance (IB n = 86 vs. AB n = 15) may reduce statistical power and potentially bias population structure and selection scan results. Additionally, use of the Ovine 50K array may introduce ascertainment bias; analyses were based on 38,193 shared SNPs, potentially missing population-specific variants. Generally, moderate genetic diversity was observed in both the Afghan Baluchi (AB) and Iranian Baluchi (IB) sheep populations, using various assessment methods. However, the IB population showed the lowest level of genetic diversity and the highest rate of linkage disequilibrium decay, despite having a better effective population size in recent generations. The ADMIXTURE analysis indicated that the optimal number of genetic clusters was K = 2, which was determined based on the lowest cross-entropy error of 0.603 observed during cross-validation. At K = 2 and NJ tree analysis, a clear genetic distinction between the AB and IB populations was evident. Additionally, the IB population demonstrated significant genetic uniformity when compared to the AB population in terms of genetic distance. Also, FST and XP-EHH were used to identify selection signatures. Some putative candidate genes for FST, including HDAC9, CSMD3, DAB1, FGF12, and PCDH9 were associated with important economic traits such as body weight, hot carcass weight, muscle weight in carcass, reproductive seasonality, and carcass fat percentage, respectively. Also, XP-EHH putative candidate genes were KCNIP4, FGF11, CNTROB, and ROBO2 in AB population, which were related to body weight, hot carcass weight, milk yield, and muscle weight in carcass. Moreover, XP-EHH putative candidate genes in IB population were GRIK3, NCOA1, and FGD3, that related to muscle weight in carcass, staple length, and milk fat percentage. Selection signals were identified using top 1% FST thresholds and XP-EHH without genome-wide multiple-testing correction; results require experimental validation. We observed very similar outcomes in terms of similar signatures related to economic traits in both FST and XP-EHH methods, indicating the robustness of analysis in this study. It can be concluded that selection has made a major distinction between Afghan and Iranian Baluchi sheep populations for reproduction, milk production, and growth traits. These could be due to the managed breeding programme in Iranian Baluchi sheep. Utilizing validated QTLs as described in this study could be applied to reveal the direction of breeding plans in livestock species.Copyright: © 2026 Taheri et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Could the miRNA cargo of extracellular vesicles (EVs) secreted by eutopic endometrium from women with endometriosis be involved in the pregnancy complications related to endometriosis?EVs secreted by eutopic endometrium from women with endometriosis present altered miRNA that modulates biological processes related to pregnancy disorders.Communication between endometrial cells, immune cells, endothelial cells, and the embryo is essential for the correct establishment and development of pregnancy, and EVs have been proposed as key mediators of this dialogue. This study aimed to elucidate whether EV-mediated communication is altered in endometriosis, by analysing the miRNA cargo of EVs secreted by eutopic endometrium from women with endometriosis, after differentiation to the gestational phase, compared with the miRNA cargo of EVs secreted by eutopic endometrium from healthy women, also after differentiation to the gestational phase.This was a prospective experimental comparative study in which endometrial organoids were derived from eutopic endometrium of patients with endometriosis (n = 16) and healthy women (n = 15).Organoids were differentiated to mimic the gestational phase through supplementation with pregnancy hormones. EVs were then isolated from the culture medium, characterized, and their miRNA cargo was profiled by sequencing. Target genes of the significantly differentially expressed miRNAs were identified, and functional enrichment analysis was subsequently performed. Finally, the organoids were co-cultured with human endometrial stromal cells (hESCs) and human placental choriocarcinoma JAR cells, and the effects of EV-derived miRNAs were assessed by qPCR using representative target genes selected based on their roles in endometrium-embryo communication and epithelial-mesenchymal and mesenchymal-epithelial transitions (EMT-MET) in organoids, EMT in stromal (hESC) cells, and endometrium-embryo communication in JAR cells.EVs were successfully isolated. miRNA-seq showed eight significantly differentially expressed miRNAs (false discovery rate [FDR] < 0.05); six were downregulated: miR-1290, miR-1246, miR-320d, miR-4516, miR-12136, and miR-3065-5p; and two were upregulated: miR-191-5p, and miR-335-5p. These miRNAs target 3964 genes and GO enrichment analysis identified 789 biological processes (FDR < 0.05), mainly involved in embryo development and developmental growth, immune system function, angiogenesis, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. KEGG pathway analysis revealed 32 deregulated pathways (FDR < 0.05), including the PI3K-Akt pathway commonly related to the pathogenesis of preeclampsia. Validation in gestational epithelial endometriosis organoids showed upregulation of IGF2 and NR2F2, and downregulation of LIF. Within the EMT-MET group, PTK2B was downregulated, whereas WASF3 and RAC1 were upregulated. In hESC cells co-cultured with gestational epithelial endometriosis organoids, SFRP1, CDC42, RAC1, and WASF3 were upregulated, while PTK2B was downregulated, reflecting the miRNA cargo of ENDO-GEST-derived EVs. Similarly, in JAR cells co-cultured with gestational epithelial endometriosis, NR2F2 and IGF2 were upregulated, whereas MDFI, SP3, and RDH10 were downregulated. All results were consistent with the inverse expression patterns of their regulatory miRNAs in secreted EVs.All raw sequencing data are available through the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) under accession number GSE302961.This was an in vitro study in which the conditions of the endometrial organoid culture could not fully replicate the intrauterine environment. In addition, due to the limited amount of RNA obtained from EVs, sample pooling was required for downstream analyses, which may have reduced our ability to assess inter-sample variability.EVs secreted by eutopic endometrium from women with endometriosis present altered miRNA that modulates processes essential for a successful pregnancy and could serve as potential diagnostic biomarkers for endometriosis and pregnancy disorders. These results also open avenues for further research about potential targets to promote pregnancy success in women with endometriosis.This study was supported by the Spanish Ministry of Education through FPU (FPU21/00988 awarded to A.M.-P.), the Carlos III Health Institute, and cofounded by the European Social Fund (ESF) 'Investing in your future' through PI21/00184 and PI24/00961 (awarded to H.F.) and F122/00102 (awarded to A.B.-R.), a Sara Borrell Contract (CD23/00157 awarded to A.C. and CD24/00184 awarded to A.V.), and Miguel Servet Programme grants (CP20/00120 awarded to H.F. and CP19/00149 awarded to I.C.). This study was also supported by Fundació La Marató de TV3 (12/C/2024). The authors have no conflicts of interest to disclose.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) exhibits profound metabolic plasticity that underlies its aggressive growth and therapeutic resistance. However, genetic determinants that modulate PDAC sensitivity to glycolytic inhibition remain incompletely defined. Here, we performed a pooled genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 dropout screen in PDAC cells under 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) selection and identified FGD5 as a key regulator of glycolytic dependency. Loss of FGD5 sensitized PDAC cells to 2-DG, reduced clonogenic growth and stem-like properties, and was associated with a shift from glycolysis toward oxidative phosphorylation. Clinically, FGD5 expression was elevated in PDAC tissues and correlated with unfavorable patient outcomes. Mechanistically, FGD5 interacted with and stabilized PGK1 by limiting STUB1-mediated ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation. Pharmacological perturbation with CB-5083, a compound prioritized through structure-guided screening, modulated FGD5-PGK1-associated proteostasis readouts, increased PGK1 ubiquitination, reduced PGK1 abundance, and cooperated with 2-DG to suppress PDAC growth in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, lactate-associated H3K18 histone lactylation was linked to increased FGD5 transcription, consistent with a feed-forward regulatory connection between glycolysis, epigenetic modification, and metabolic adaptation. Collectively, our findings position FGD5 as a metabolic vulnerability in PDAC and provide a mechanistic framework supporting combinatorial strategies that couple glycolysis inhibition with perturbation of FGD5-PGK1-associated proteostasis. A genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 screen identified FGD5 as a metabolic vulnerability that increases PDAC sensitivity to the glycolysis inhibitor 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG). In PDAC cells, FGD5 interacts with PGK1 and supports PGK1 stability by limiting STUB1-dependent ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation, thereby sustaining aerobic glycolysis and lactate production. Glycolysis-derived lactate is associated with increased H3K18 histone lactylation (H3K18la) at the FGD5 promoter, accompanied by elevated FGD5 transcription, consistent with a metabolic-epigenetic regulatory link. Pharmacological perturbation with CB-5083 attenuates FGD5-PGK1-associated proteostasis readouts, whereas 2-DG inhibits glycolytic flux and lactate-associated H3K18la. Together, CB-5083 and 2-DG cooperate to suppress PDAC growth by coupling perturbation of the FGD5-PGK1-associated proteostasis axis with glycolytic inhibition.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Advances in single-cell and spatial assays have revolutionized the scale and resolution of molecular tissue profiling. Here we present MetaPlaq, a multimodal atlas of human atherosclerotic arterial beds comprising over a million cells across single-cell transcriptomics, epigenomics and high-resolution spatial expression assays. We map granular cell states and disease-relevant transcriptional programs within the native tissue context of coronary arteries. Furthermore, we map cardiovascular GWAS signals to smooth muscle cells (SMCs) and endothelial cells (ECs) and uncover the cis -regulatory architecture governing their phenotypic transitions. Our comprehensive epigenomic reference allowed us to build cell-specific enhancer-gene link maps and multimodal gene regulatory networks (GRNs) underlying disease-relevant states such as osteogenic SMCs and ECs undergoing mesenchymal transition. We also integrate SMC and EC disease-associated gene sets with GRNs to nominate key transcription factors such as PRRX1, BNC2 and ELK3 regulating atherosclerosis-relevant transcriptional programs. Finally, we layer single-cell and spatial modalities to fine-map GWAS variants with improved cell and anatomical context. We highlight candidate cell-specific regulatory mechanisms at less characterized CAD loci, including FGD5 and MCF2L in ECs. Together, this atlas represents an important step towards fully interpreting genetic risk loci and informing new therapeutic strategies for cardiovascular disease.
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) continues to pose a significant health challenge worldwide because of its poor prognosis and limited therapeutic options. To identify key regulators, we performed integrative bioinformatic approaches, such as differential expression analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), LASSO regression, support vector machine (SVM) modeling, and ceRNA network construction, followed by experimental validation. These analyses across three GEO cohorts consistently highlighted FGD5-AS1 and CDK5 as upregulated, while miR-142-5p was downregulated and emerged as a central regulator within the ceRNA network. Clinical samples and functional assays confirmed these findings, showing that FGD5-AS1 overexpression enhanced proliferation, invasion, and migration while suppressing apoptosis in ESCC cells. Moreover, FGD5-AS1 promoted mitochondrial fission and mitophagy through miR-142-5p sequestration, leading to increased CDK5 levels, thereby driving tumor progression. Animal experiments further demonstrated that modulation of FGD5-AS1 expression significantly altered tumor growth. Collectively, these integrative results reveal that the FGD5-AS1/miR-142-5p/CDK5 axis promotes ESCC malignancy by regulating mitochondrial dynamics, suggesting that the FGD5-AS1/miR-142-5p/CDK5 axis may represent a candidate molecular target and warrants further investigation for its potential clinical relevance in ESCC.
Intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms (IPMNs) of the pancreas are classified into low grade (LG), high grade (HG), and invasive carcinoma-associated (IC) groups, each requiring different clinical therapeutic strategies. Loss of planar nuclear polarity (PNP) in IPMNs is a key factor in tumor progression. We studied 29 IPMN cases (8 LG, 10 HG, and 11 IC) using targeted next-generation sequencing and immunohistochemistry to elucidate the complex molecular dynamics of PNP factors in tumor progression. We analyzed the mRNA expression of 61 PNP-related factors, including those associated with the cell membrane, epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), the Hippo pathway, cytoskeletal network, and nuclear envelope, in the IPMN cases. The Kruskal-Wallis test identified 15 PNP factors (ITGB1, CLDN4, CLDN7, ANO1, TWIST1, SRSF1, LATS2, TOP2A, MAPK1, TGFBR1, PCNT, FSCN1, RHOA, CDC42, and SYNE3) with significantly higher mRNA expression in IC compared with LG and HG. Multinomial logistic regression identified three PNP factors (CLDN7, FSCN1, and TOP2A) with significantly higher mRNA expression and stronger or more frequent immunohistochemical positivity in both LG versus IC and LG versus HG comparisons. Overall, our study indicates that the molecular mechanisms underlying disturbed PNP in IPMNs are not mediated by a single pathway but involve multiple interconnected pathways. Our findings may contribute to elucidation of the molecular mechanisms regulating PNP in IPMNs, enhancing our understanding of tumor progression and contributing to more accurate pathological diagnosis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
The PEAK protein family, comprising PEAK1-3, are pseudokinase scaffolds that regulate cell proliferation and motility via recruitment of specific effectors. For PEAK3, the latter include the adaptor proteins Grb2 and CrkII and the Arf GTPase-activating protein (ArfGAP) ASAP1. PEAK3 exhibits a tandem site spanning a CrkII SH3 domain binding sequence and phosphorylation-dependent 14-3-3 recruitment motif at serine 69 (S69), with 14-3-3 binding mediating a negative control 'switch' on PEAK3 signaling. However, whether this control switch is subject to (patho)physiological regulation has remained unclear. Here, using MCF-10A breast epithelial cells as a model system, we demonstrate that S69 phosphorylation occurs predominantly in the cytoplasm and is subject to growth factor regulation, being enhanced by EGF and insulin stimulation but with distinct temporal dynamics. We identify Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) and protein kinase C (PKC) as key mediators of this phosphorylation event. Disruption of the pS69/14-3-3 interaction in the PEAK3 S69A mutant leads to elevated basal Erk phosphorylation, altered EGF-induced Erk and Akt activation kinetics, partial epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, and increased Arf1 activation. Interrogation of the COSMIC database identified cancer-associated mutations in the tandem recruitment site, and functional characterization revealed a subset that confer enhanced Grb2/ASAP1 binding and migration potential compared with wild-type PEAK3. Interestingly, amongst the cancer mutations, PEAK3 R66P and R66Q lost 14-3-3 binding in vivo, but L55P retained it. Together, our study reveals that the tandem PEAK3 regulatory site is subject to physiological control and is also mutated in cancer.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Among cerebrovascular malformations, brain arteriovenous malformation (bAVM) and cerebral cavernous malformation (CCM) primarily affect microvessels. Brain AVM originates from arterioles due to impaired expression of endothelial differentiation markers, whereas CCM arises due to aberrant sprouting angiogenesis. Recent advances in the field of lncRNAs have linked perturbations of the competitive endogenous RNA (ceRNA) lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA axis to the development of several pathological conditions. However, this mechanism remains poorly investigated in cerebrovascular phenotypes. Based on RNA-seq data and enrichment analysis, we identified lncRNA genes differentially expressed in endothelial cells (ECs) isolated from bAVM and CCM biopsies. We isolated RNA from both ECs and blood samples of larger patient cohorts. By quantitative real-time PCR, gene expression was compared between pathological ECs and human brain microvascular endothelial cells (HBMECs) and between blood samples of patients and healthy controls. We identified five lncRNA genes, MIR497HG, RMST, SNHG6, SOX2-OT, and ZSCAN16-AS1 overexpressed in both ECs and blood samples of bAVM patients. In CCM ECs, FGD5-AS1 and SNHG12 were upregulated and XIST, NORAD, SNHG29, and LINC0066 down-expressed. These lncRNAs act as molecular sponges for miRNAs targeting transcripts associated with the onset of the respective phenotypes. Specifically, arteriovenous differentiation and vascular smooth muscle cell function were the two most enriched pathways related to the bAVM phenotype. For the CCM condition, the most enriched pathways included Rho-GTPase, Delta-Notch, and VEGF signalling. These data suggest a novel investigation field to better elucidate the differences in the pathogenesis, differential diagnosis, and potential therapeutic strategies for bAVM and CCM phenotypes.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
BACKGROUND: Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is the most common subtype of lung cancer and exhibits complex heterogeneity. Despite extensive research on driver gene mutations such as in EGFR and TP53, resistance mechanisms and co-mutations underscore the need to elucidate the molecular mechanisms of LUAD and to discover novel biomarkers for personalized treatment. METHODS: We integrated transcriptomic data from 1398 samples (1160 LUAD and 238 normal tissues) obtained from the GEO and TCGA databases. Analytical procedures included differential expression, functional enrichment (GO/KEGG/GSEA), and immune cell infiltration assessment. We applied 113 machine learning algorithms to identify core genes and develop a diagnostic model. The relationship between core gene expression and prognosis was assessed using TCGA data, and downregulation of these genes was experimentally verified by RT-PCR in A549 and Beas-2B cell lines. RESULTS: Our analysis revealed significant enrichment of the “cytoskeleton in muscle cells” pathway and activation of pyrimidine metabolism in LUAD. Immune profiling showed reduced proportions of monocytes and resting mast cells. We identified four core genes—FGD5, LRRC36, C8B, and MYOC—that were consistently downregulated in LUAD. A diagnostic model based on these genes demonstrated strong predictive performance, and low expression of each core gene was correlated with poor patient prognosis.Multivariate Cox regression confirmed their status as independent prognostic factors. CONCLUSIONS: This study identifies FGD5, LRRC36, C8B, and MYOC as novel core genes and independent prognostic biomarkers in LUAD, and underscores the potential role of the “cytoskeleton in muscle cells” pathway. Our multi-faceted strategy provides new insights into LUAD pathogenesis and yields promising biomarker candidates for improving clinical diagnostics.
The cluster of differentiation 47 (CD47)-signal regulatory protein α (SIRPα) axis plays crucial roles in tumour immune evasion, promoting tumorigenesis and malignancy progression. Preclinical studies have demonstrated that CD47 blockade synergises with anti-PD-1 therapy to enhance anti-tumour immunity. However, the functional mechanisms and therapeutic implications of this axis in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remain insufficiently characterised. Our study employed a multi-omics approach integrating multiple layers-transcriptomic, mutational, immune and regulatory-to understand the functional roles of the CD47-SIRPα axis. Pan-cancer analyses of expression patterns and prognostic significance identified the CD47-SIRPα axis as a negative prognostic indicator in HCC, where the cellular heterogeneity of CD47 expression was mapped by its subcellular localisation patterns and somatic mutation profiles. Functional analyses revealed that high CD47 expression modulated cancer stemness and lipid metabolism in HCC. Furthermore, it remodeled the tumour immune micro-environment, characterised by modulating M1 macrophage polarization and elevated expression of immune checkpoints. The protein-protein interaction (PPI) network combined with structural bioinformatics analyses identified SIRPG and SIRPB1 as additional high-probability direct interaction partners of CD47. Biomarker relevance analysis showed that CD47 demonstrated predictive capacity in 15 cohorts, and drug sensitivity profiling identified epigenetic modulators and metabolic regulators as potential candidates for CD47-targeted combination therapy. Through expression profiling, correlation assessment and survival evaluation, we identified that the FGD5-AS1/miR-22-3p axis was the most potent upstream non-coding RNA regulatory pathway for CD47 in HCC. Our findings systematically characterise the CD47-SIRPα axis as a negative prognostic indicator and an immunotherapeutic target in HCC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
We report a novel genetic variant in a patient with treatment-resistant peripheral pulmonary artery stenosis (PPS) and progressive pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). A premature infant was diagnosed with bilateral PPS requiring multiple surgical reconstructions and interventional procedures with refractory proximal stenoses. Despite adequate anatomic repair preserving nearly all right lung segments, the child developed progressive PAH with elevated pressures in preserved segments out of proportion to residual obstruction. Genetic evaluation revealed a de novo heterozygous variant in FGD5, a critical regulator of VEGF signaling essential for pulmonary vascular development and homeostasis. We propose that FGD5 haploinsufficiency could disrupt endothelial function during development, leading to aberrant vascular patterning. This dysfunction may lead to PPS and ongoing endothelial dysfunction contributing to PAH. This represents a potential novel genetic cause of PPS with PAH, expanding the understanding of critical regulators in pulmonary vascular development and pathology. Comprehensive genetic evaluation in treatment-resistant pulmonary vascular disease may identify novel mechanisms and eventually guide personalized therapeutic approaches through enhanced genotype-phenotype correlation.© 2026 The Author(s). Pulmonary Circulation published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of the Pulmonary Vascular Research Institute.
Background: Emerging evidence suggests that biological sex shapes glioma biology and therapeutic response. Methods: We performed a sex-stratified analysis of CGGA (Chinese Glioma Genome Atlas) RNA sequencing data comparing low-grade glioma (LGG) with high-grade glioma (HGG) and glioblastoma (GBM). Using the 3PodR framework, we integrated differential expression analysis with Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA), EnrichR, leading-edge analysis, and iLINCS drug repurposing. Results: These comparisons provide a proxy for biological processes underlying malignant transformation. In LGG vs. HGG, 973 significantly differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in females and 1236 in males, with 15.5% and 33.5% unique to each sex, respectively. In LGG vs. GBM, 2011 DEGs were identified in females and 2537 in males, with 12.6% and 30.7% being unique. Gene-level contrasts included GLI1 upregulation in males and downregulation in females, GCGR upregulation in males, MYOD1 upregulation in females, and HIST1H2BH downregulation in males. Additional top DEGs included PRLHR, DGKK, DNMBP-AS1, HOXA9, CTB-1I21.1, RP11-47I22.1, HPSE2, SAA1, DLK1, H19, PLA2G2A, and PI3. In both sexes, LGG-HGG and LGG-GBM grade comparisons converged on neuronal and synaptic programs, with enrichment of glutamatergic receptor genes and postsynaptic modules, including GRIN2B, GRIN2A, GRIN2C, GRIN1, and CHRNA7. In contrast, collateral pathways diverged by sex: females showed downregulation of mitotic and chromosome-segregation programs, whereas males showed reduction of extracellular matrix and immune-interaction pathways. Perturbagen analysis nominated signature-reversing compounds across sexes, including histone deacetylase inhibitors, Aurora kinase inhibitors, microtubule-targeting agents such as vindesine, and multi-kinase inhibitors targeting VEGFR, PDGFR, FLT3, PI3K, and MTOR. Conclusions: Glioma grade comparisons reveal a shared neuronal-synaptic program accompanied by sex-specific transcriptional remodeling. These findings support sex-aware therapeutic strategies that pair modulation of neuron-glioma coupling with chromatin- or receptor tyrosine kinase/angiogenic-targeted agents, and they nominate biomarkers such as GLI1, MYOD1, GCGR, PRLHR, and HIST1H2BH for near-term validation.
Osteoporosis is a prevalent metabolic bone disease characterized by heterogeneous molecular mechanisms. Emerging evidence implicates that natural killer cells and immunomodulator-related genes (NIRGs) were involved in its pathogenesis; however, systematic exploration of NIRGs remains limited.To explore the role of natural killer (NK) cells and immunomodulator-related differentially expressed genes (NIRDEGs) in osteoporosis.Two osteoporosis datasets (GSE56815 and GSE7429) were integrated after batch effect correction and normalization. Natural killer cell-related genes (NRGs) and immunomodulator-related genes (IRGs) were curated from GeneCards. And NIRDEGs were identified by intersecting co-differentially expressed genes (Co-DEGs) across datasets. Functional enrichment (GO, KEGG, GSEA, GSVA) and immune infiltration analyses were performed. Then, diagnostic models were developed using random forest, support vector machine (SVM), and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression, validated by receiver operating characteristic curves (ROC), and nomograms. Protein-Protein Interaction (PPI) networks and regulatory networks were generated using bioinformatic tools.Twelve NIRDEGs were identified, and they were enriched in regulation of inflammatory response, myeloid cell homeostasis, negative regulation of DNA-binding transcription factor activity, homeostasis of number of cells, and I-κB kinase/NF-κB signaling. A diagnostic model comprising seven genes (IDO1, PTMA, RAB11FIP1, MYH14, HAMP, HMOX1, and ESR1) exhibited moderate accuracy (0.7 < AUC < 0.9). The protein-level expression of the six candidate genes was further validated in osteoporosis medol rats. Specifically, the IDO1 and PTMA was obviously elevated in the osteoporosis rat model, while the RAB11FIP1, MYH14, HAMP, and HMOX1 was markedly decreased. Immune infiltration analysis revealed distinct patterns of 20 immune cell types between high and low BMD groups, especially monocytes, macrophages, and eosinophils. The PPI network indicated that five key genes were interconnected (IDO1, PTMA, HAMP, HMOX1, and ESR1) and that there were 20 functionally related proteins. Regulatory networks highlighted interactions with 26 transcription factors (TFs), 28 miRNAs, 26 RBPs and 32 therapeutic compounds.This study establishes NIRDEGs as critical players in osteoporosis pathogenesis and provides a clinically translatable seven-gene diagnostic model for early osteoporosis detection. The integration of multi-omic analyses uncovered key pathways, immune dynamics, and regulatory networks. These findings provide novel insights into immune-mediated mechanisms and therapeutic targets for osteoporosis management.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
In Alzheimer's disease (AD), amyloid beta (Aβ) plaques and hyperphosphorylated tau tangles drive neurodegeneration and cognitive decline. Disrupted calcium homeostasis-particularly via transient receptor potential canonical-1 (TRPC1) channels-contributes to tauopathy and disease progression. This study investigated the therapeutic potential of 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate (2-APB), a modulator of TRP channels, in a scopolamine-induced rat model of AD. Adult Wistar rats were assigned to six groups: normal control, disease control (scopolamine 2.5 mg/kg), three 2-APB treatment groups (2.5, 5.0 and 10.0 mg/kg) and a donepezil group (5.0 mg/kg), each with six animals. Treatments lasted three weeks. Cognitive performance was assessed using the Morris water maze, memory consolidation and open field tests. Biochemical assays measured acetylcholinesterase (AChE), calcineurin, oxidative stress markers (GSH, MDA) and inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β). Protein and gene expression analyses (Western blot, qRT-PCR) evaluated tau, GSK-3β, TRPC1, MARK2, and calcineurin A/PPP3CA, alongside histopathological and immunohistochemical studies. 2-APB treatment significantly reduced pro-inflammatory cytokines, alleviated neuroinflammation, and decreased oxidative stress. Cognitive function improved, correlating with normalized AChE activity and preserved neuronal structure. At the molecular level, 2-APB reduced tau hyperphosphorylation at Ser396 and Thr231, likely through suppression of TRPC1-associated calcium entry and consequent modulation of calcium-dependent kinases (MARK2) and phosphatases (calcineurin), as well as the GSK-3β pathway. However, given that 2-APB is a broad-spectrum calcium signaling modulator - known to act on IP₃ receptors, SOCE/ORAI pathways, and multiple TRPC subtypes in addition to TRPC1-the present findings provide supportive evidence linking TRPC1 modulation to the observed neuroprotective effects. Although, the involvement of additional interconnected signaling mechanisms cannot be excluded and these findings should be interpreted within the context of 2-APB's pleiotropic pharmacological profile. Downregulation of TRPC1 and calcineurin A/PPP3CA gene expression supported 2-APB's role in restoring calcium balance and mitigating tau pathology. These results highlight 2-APB's potential in addressing key AD features-tauopathy, oxidative stress, neuroinflammation and cognitive impairment-warranting further preclinical and clinical research as a potential therapeutic for AD and related tauopathies.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Familial glucocorticoid deficiency type 2 (FGD2) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by pathogenic variants in the MRAP gene, typically characterized by isolated cortisol deficiency with markedly elevated ACTH levels. We report a term male neonate born to consanguineous parents who presented with striking scrotal hyperpigmentation at birth, despite an otherwise normal appearance and a normal newborn screening limited to classical congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH). Initial biochemical evaluations, including glucose and electrolytes, were unremarkable; however, due to severe hyperpigmentation, further endocrine workup was pursued. Laboratory findings revealed profoundly low serum cortisol and markedly elevated ACTH, supporting the diagnosis of primary adrenal insufficiency. Hydrocortisone therapy was initiated promptly, and during follow-up, transient hyperkalemia and low-normal aldosterone levels necessitated short-term fludrocortisone supplementation, suggesting partial mineralocorticoid involvement. Genetic analysis identified a homozygous MRAP in-frame deletion (c.88_90del; p.K30del), classified as likely pathogenic according to ACMG 2015 criteria and as a variant of uncertain significance according to the ClinGen SVI recommendations. Despite the dramatic initial presentation, the patient remained euglycemic and demonstrated normal neurodevelopment under appropriate hormone replacement, with gradual resolution of hyperpigmentation. This case highlights striking neonatal scrotal hyperpigmentation as a potential early clinical clue suggestive of familial glucocorticoid deficiency in a patient with a homozygous MRAP variant. Importantly, even when newborn screening for CAH is normal, marked hyperpigmentation should prompt evaluation for other causes of primary adrenal insufficiency to prevent life-threatening adrenal crises.
Cervical cancer remains a major cause of cancer-related mortality in women, yet its molecular mechanisms of progression and metastasis are not fully defined. This study explores the oncogenic role of the ESR1 (estrogen receptor α)-MYH14 (myosin heavy chain 14) signaling axis in cervical cancer.Quantitative real-time PCR and Western blotting were used to assess RNA and protein levels. The transcriptional regulation of MYH14 by ESR1 was verified through chromatin immunoprecipitation quantitative PCR and dual-luciferase assays. Cellular proliferation, migration, and invasion were evaluated using CCK-8, colony formation, wound healing, and transwell assays. Xenograft and tail vein metastasis models were applied to examine the effects of MYH14 silencing and ESR1 inhibition by AZD9833.MYH14 was markedly upregulated in cervical cancer tissues and correlated with poor prognosis. MYH14 knockdown suppressed proliferation and metastasis both in vitro and in vivo. ESR1 functioned as a transcriptional activator of MYH14, enhancing c-Myc and MMP9 expression, whereas MYH14 silencing or AZD9833 treatment reversed these oncogenic effects and reduced ESR1, MYH14, c-Myc, and MMP9 levels.The ESR1-MYH14 signaling axis drives cervical cancer growth and metastasis. Targeting this pathway may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for cervical cancer management.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The gene encoding microtubule affinity-regulating kinase 2 (MARK2) has recently been implicated in patients with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Although seizures have been reported in 46.4% of a small cohort, detailed information regarding seizure phenotypes and longitudinal progression remains scarce. We present a case of MARK2-related epilepsy and review previously reported cases in the literature.An 11-year-old male patient with ASD carrying a heterozygous pathogenic variant (c.888 + 1G > A) in MARK2 gene experienced his first nocturnal tonic seizure at 5 years 11 months. Recurrent nocturnal focal impaired-consciousness seizures were accompanied by left temporal sharp waves on EEG, and episodes of focal status epilepticus were also noted. Oxcarbazepine provided only partial benefit, whereas perampanel effectively reduced nocturnal seizures and improved sleep initiation. He has remained seizure-free since 9 years 9 months on combined therapy. In our literature review, no prior reports described longitudinal changes in seizure manifestations, EEG evolution, or treatment response. EEG abnormalities were noted in 72.7% of patients (8/11), with focal epileptiform discharges being the most common finding (N = 5). No major structural abnormalities were identified on brain MRI.This case provides the first detailed clinical description of MARK2-related epilepsy, characterized by focal seizures responsive to antiseizure medication.© 2026 Lee, Kang, Kim, Kim and Chae.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42213974
Protein phosphorylation is a key regulator of signaling, with mass spectrometry (MS) based phosphoproteomics serving as the premier technology for its analysis. However, phosphorylation profiling is hindered by acquisition biases: Data-Dependent Acquisition (DDA) suffers from stochastic undersampling and missing values, while Data-Independent Acquisition (DIA) faces computational bottlenecks and inefficiencies from vast spectral libraries. We present PhosSight, a unified deep learning framework designed to augment identification depth and accelerate search efficiency. PhosSight features PhosDetect, a model that explicitly encodes phosphorylation-specific physicochemical features to accurately predict peptide detectability. For DDA, PhosSight leverages predicted retention time, fragment intensity, and detectability to refine site localization and rescoring, recovering marginal, low-abundance spectra. For DIA, PhosSight utilizes detectability-guided library pruning to remove non-detectable noise, accelerating search speeds without compromising sensitivity. Benchmarking on synthetic and real-world datasets confirms PhosSight's superior performance in both modes. Applying PhosSight to a large-scale Uterine Corpus Endometrial Carcinoma (UCEC) cohort improved data completeness and expanded the quantifiable phosphoproteome. This enhanced completeness enabled the discovery of novel prognosis-associated kinase targets, such as MARK2, underscoring PhosSight as a powerful tool for biological discovery in precision oncology. Trial Registration: Not applicable. This study did not prospectively assign human participants to any health-related intervention and therefore does not constitute a clinical trial requiring registration.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42059165 is a review article
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is the most challenging breast cancer subtype to treat due to the absence of effective targeted therapies. In this study, we demonstrate that elevated expression of microtubule affinity-regulating kinase 2 (MARK2), but not other MARK family members (MARK1, MARK3, and MARK4), correlates with poor prognosis in TNBC patients. Silencing MARK2 impairs TNBC progression via inhibition of mutant p53 (mutp53) signaling. In contrast, silencing any of the other three MARKs either enhances or does not affect TNBC cell growth or migration and has no impact on mutp53 expression. Notably, direct knockdown of mutp53 recapitulates the effects of MARK2 ablation in TNBC cells, further supporting a functional linkage. Moreover, ectopic expression of either wild-type (WT) MARK2 or its kinase-dead (KD) mutant enhances mutp53 signaling and promotes TNBC progression; however, MARK2 overexpression does not alter wild-type p53 (wtp53) expression or cell growth in luminal breast cancer cells. Significant inverse correlations are also observed between the expression levels of MARK2, THBS1, or HBEGF (two direct target genes of mutp53) and both overall and disease-free survival in TNBC patients harboring mutTP53, whereas no such association exists between MARK2 and survival in breast cancer subtypes expressing wtTP53. MARK2 is predominantly localized in the nucleus of TNBC cells, where it interacts with and stabilizes mutp53 through its UBA and Spacer domains. Consistent with this, MARK2-ΔUBA or MARK2-ΔSpacer mutant proteins fail to bind mutp53 or sustain its signaling, thereby acting as dominant-negative inhibitors that suppress TNBC progression. Collectively, our findings indicate that suppressing MARK2 expression, rather than inhibiting its kinase activity, may represent an effective therapeutic strategy for TNBC with mutTP53.Copyright © 2026 China Pharmaceutical University. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS) remains incompletely elucidated. Semaphorins play an active role in the immune and nervous systems by regulating receptor-mediated adhesion mechanisms. Immunosemaphorins have recently emerged as diagnostic biomarkers or therapeutic targets in MS.This study aimed to investigate alterations in semaphorins (Sema) 3A, 3F, 4A, 4D, and 7A in newly diagnosed, treatment-naive patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS).In this prospective case-control study, semaphorin levels were evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in 40 consecutive patients (serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)) and 40 healthy controls (serum).Serum levels of Sema3A, Sema4A, Sema4D, and Sema7A were lower in RRMS patients than in healthy controls and remained significant after correction for multiple testing. In exploratory analyses, OCB count was negatively correlated with serum Sema4A and Sema7A and positively correlated with CSF Sema7A. Patients with an OCB count ≥12 had lower serum levels of Sema3F, Sema4A, and Sema7A. Sema4D levels were higher in patients with an IgG index ≥0.7. Patients with infratentorial lesions had lower serum Sema4A levels and higher CSF Sema4A levels.Low serum levels of Sema3A may be diagnostically relevant in RRMS. Low serum levels of Sema7A and elevated CSF levels may be associated with inflammatory immune activation. Further studies are needed for Sema3F, Sema4A, and Sema4D.Copyright © 2026 Sarıdaş, Aydın, Özpar, Koç, Hakyemez, Alkan and Turan.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a leading cause of blindness. While anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) therapy is effective, its utility is limited by variable patient response and the need for frequent injections. Therefore, identifying new therapeutic targets for DR is imperative. Emerging evidence indicates that astrocytes contribute to endothelial dysfunction in DR, suggesting that targeting astrocyte-endothelial cell crosstalk represents a promising therapeutic strategy.To evaluate the therapeutic potential of Salvianolic acid A (Sal A) for DR, elucidate the molecular mechanisms by which it modulates astrocyte-endothelial cell interactions, and develop a liposome-based nanodelivery system to enhance its efficacy.The protective effects and mechanisms of Sal A were systematically investigated using a streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic mouse model, complemented by a suite of in vitro and molecular approaches including co-culture models, transcriptomic analysis, and target validation assays.Retinal vascular structure and barrier function were assessed in vivo via immunofluorescence staining and Evans Blue leakage assays. Endothelial cell behaviors were examined in vitro using wound healing, Transwell migration, tube formation, and spheroid sprouting assays. Transcriptomic profiling was performed by RNA sequencing (RNA-seq). The direct target of Sal A was identified and validated using MS-based drug-affinity responsive target stability (DARTS) screening, cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA), and microscale thermophoresis (MST). Expression of key signaling molecules was measured by western blotting, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). Liposome@Sal A was prepared and characterized for its physicochemical properties (dynamic light scattering, transmission electron microscopy), stability, and therapeutic efficacy in vitro and in vivo.Sal A treatment ameliorated retinal vascular abnormalities in diabetic mice, evidenced by increased VE-cadherin and NG2 expression, decreased α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) expression, and reduced acellular capillary formation, collectively restoring vascular integrity. Mechanistically, astrocyte-derived soluble Semaphorin 4D (sSema4D) promoted endothelial hyperactivation via the PlexinB1/RhoA/ROCK/pMLC2 signaling cascade. Sal A directly bound to the Arg92 residue of membrane-bound Sema4D on astrocytes, significantly inhibiting sSema4D shedding and its subsequent deleterious effects on endothelial cells. Furthermore, Liposome@Sal A enhanced retinal drug delivery and demonstrated superior therapeutic efficacy compared to free Sal A in diabetic mice.Sal A preserves retinal vascular structure and function in DR by binding to astrocytic Sema4D at Arg92, thereby inhibiting sSema4D shedding and downstream PlexinB1/RhoA/ROCK/pMLC2 signaling, which modulates astrocyte-endothelial cell crosstalk. Liposomal encapsulation significantly potentiates the therapeutic efficacy of Sal A, positioning it as a promising drug candidate for DR treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42402554 is a review article
The Popeye domain-containing protein 1 (Popdc1), also known as Bves, plays a crucial role in maintaining skeletal muscle homeostasis, with its variants leading to limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type R25. Skeletal muscles of patients with the homozygous missense variant of Bves exhibit impaired membrane trafficking, while skeletal muscle fibers in bvesS191F homozygous mutant zebrafish are significantly reduced and disorganized. However, the mechanism by which the absence of bves induces skeletal muscle atrophy remains unclear. In this study, we discovered a novel mechanism whereby bves deficiency drives skeletal muscle atrophy by disrupting mitochondrial structure and function. Our findings indicate that bves knockout leads to a significant decrease in zebrafish's ability to swim, atrophy of skeletal muscle tissue, loss of cell membrane localization signals, and abnormalities in mitochondrial structure and function. After an 8-week intervention of regular aerobic exercise, the symptoms of skeletal muscle atrophy in bves knockout zebrafish were significantly alleviated, and the expression levels of genes and proteins related to mitochondrial were effectively rescued. These findings establish a connection between bves deficiency-induced disruption of mitochondrial structure and function and the onset and progression of skeletal muscle tissue atrophy symptoms, thereby laying a molecular foundation for exercise rehabilitation strategies in atrophic myopathy.
CD100/SEMA4D functions as a critical co-stimulatory molecule in T cell responses, existing in both membrane-bound (mCD100) and soluble (sCD100) forms. Previous studies have shown that CD100 enhances CD8+ T cell responses indirectly by promoting the maturation and activation of antigen-presenting cells, thereby facilitating viral clearance. However, whether mCD100, highly expressed on resting T cells, can also directly regulate CD8+ T cell function upon ligand engagement remains unclear.We examined the impact of CD100 deficiency on the functional phenotype and differentiation of HBcAg-specific CD8+ T cells using separate and co-culture systems in vitro. Furthermore, through adoptive transfer of CD100 knockout HBV Cor93 TCR-transgenic (CD100KO C93-TCRtg) CD8+ T cells, we investigated the early impact of mCD100 deficiency on the development of HBcAg-specific CD8+ T cell responses during HBV infection.The absence of mCD100 expression significantly decrease HBcAg-specific CD8+ T-cell proliferation, activation, effector cytokine production, and expression of Granzyme B and Eomes upon antigen stimulation in vitro. In the acute self-resolving models, the early proliferation of transferred CD100KO C93-TCRtg CD8+ T cells were impaired compared to their WT counterparts following HBV challenge. Transcriptomic data revealed that significant downregulation of gene sets associated with the PI3K-Akt, mTOR, NF-κB, and JAK-STAT signaling pathways in CD100KO CD8+ T cells.Membrane CD100 expressed on resting HBcAg-specific CD8+ T cells may function as a co-stimulatory molecule by providing a direct stimulatory signal for the early proliferation and effector differentiation of T cells. The observed effects of mCD100 are associated with the PI3K-Akt-mTOR, JAK-STAT and NF-κB signaling pathways.Copyright © 2026 Zhao, Chen, Chen, Wang, Yang, Sutter, Lu, Chen, Zheng, Yang, Wang and Liu.
Neutrophil dysregulation is one of the main features of periodontitis (PD). This study delineated neutrophil heterogeneity and predicted potential communication of mast cells within the microenvironment of PD using computational single-cell transcriptomics.We analyzed a public scRNA-seq dataset (GSE171213) from gingival tissues of healthy controls, PD patients, and post-treatment patients. Data processing, clustering, and annotation were performed using Seurat and Harmony packages. Cell-cell communication was computationally inferred using CellChat and NicheNet packages, and transcriptional regulatory programs were predicted via SCENIC. HMC-1.2 mast cells were treated with TGFB1 and assessed for proliferation, migration, the level of VEGFA, IL-6, and TNF-α.Ten cell types in PD were identified. Two distinct transcriptional states of neutrophils were identified based on gene expression profiles. Cell-cell communication analysis predicted that Subtype 2, which was enriched for inflammatory and effector genes, exhibited stronger putative interactions with mast cells via ligand-receptor pairs such as IL6-(IL6R+IL6ST) and SEMA4D- PLXNB2. NicheNet-based analysis further inferred that neutrophil-derived TGFB1, OSM, and IL1B were associated with mast-cell target gene programs related to proliferation, migration, angiogenesis, and inflammatory responses. Finally, in vitro cell experiments indicated that TGFB1 inhibited proliferation but promoted migration and the expression of VEGFA, IL-6, and TNF-α. However, all effects were reversed by SB431542, confirming TGFBR1 dependence.This study delineated neutrophil transcriptional heterogeneity in PD and identified neutrophil- mast cell communication axes as a contributor to the inflammatory microenvironment in PD.Through computational analysis of single-cell transcriptomics, this study described two neutrophil states and their predicted interaction network with mast cells in PD, providing testable hypotheses for future mechanistic and translational studies.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
High myopia (HM) is a complex condition influenced by both genetic and environmental factors, yet its early prediction and clinical intervention remain challenging due to heterogeneous progression patterns. To support early identification of individuals at risk for HM, we developed MIRAGE, a deep learning framework combining exome-wide genotypes with fundus images for personalized prediction. The model combines DeepExGRS for genetic risk modeling and a convolutional network for imaging, fused via a gating attention mechanism. Applied to a cohort of 1991 individuals, MIRAGE achieved high predictive accuracy (AUC = 0.963), outperforming unimodal models. Interpretation using Integrated Gradients and Shapley values identified key genes (e.g. GJD2, FGF1) and image regions (optic disc, macula) contributing to predictions. Further, deep learning-based genetic risk models (DeepcvGRS and DeeprvGRS) outperformed traditional polygenic risk scores, capturing nonlinear interactions and improving HM prediction. Interaction analysis using Shapley interaction scores revealed 314 significant gene-gene interactions, including biologically relevant pairs such as PRSS56-GLI3 and SEMA4D-FRY. Overall, MIRAGE offers a scalable, interpretable, and accurate approach for HM risk stratification, paving the way to early intervention guided by both genetics and retinal imaging.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
In order to investigate the therapeutic mechanism of Jianpiyiqi Granule in juvenile myasthenia gravis (JMG) and find the immune-associated cytokines or signaling pathways targeted by this intervention.(1) We extracted JMG serum samples from the sample bank of the Hebei Provincial Key Laboratory of Myasthenia Gravis before and after treatment. (2) Using Olink Immune Response Panel detects serum cytokines. Data were collated and analyzed using statistical software. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were visualized using heat maps, volcano plots, and other tools. Differentially expressed cytokines were analyzed using KEGG enrichment pathway analysis to identify the relevant signaling pathways they participate in.(1) Twelve of 92 cytokines were found to be differentially expressed from 20 patients before and after treatment, namely AXIN1, CCL11, CCL13, CCL20, CCL25, CCL3, CD40, IL12B, S100A12, SIRT2, SLAMF1, and STAMBP (|log2FC| > 0.263; false discovery rate (FDR)-adjusted p < 0.05). IL12B was upregulated while AXIN1, CCL11, CCL13, CCL20, CCL25, CCL3, CD40, S100A12, SIRT2, SLAMF1 and STAMBP were downregulated after treatment. Notably, three of these-CCL11, IL12B, and STAMBP-showed stronger statistical evidence, with FDR-adjusted p < 0.01 and |log2FC| > 0.263. (2) The following pathways were obtained by KEGG enrichment analysis of 12 cytokines: cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, viral protein interaction with cytokine and cytokine receptor, chemokine signaling pathway, Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling pathway, intestinal immune network for IgA production, IL-17 signaling pathway, NF-kappa B signaling pathway. (3) CCL11 and CCL20 were enriched in the IL-17 signaling pathway. We used enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to retest additional serum samples before and after treatment from 12 JMG patients before and after treatment. The results showed a significant decrease in CCL11 and CCL20 in after-treatment serum (p < 0.05).Drug therapy for JMG revealed 12 differentially expressed cytokines. Due to the exploratory nature and sample volume constraints, only two candidate cytokines were validated by ELISA. We found that the cytokines CCL11 and CCL20-associated with the IL-17 signaling pathway-were downregulated after treatment. The drug therapy may inhibit MG progression by reducing the expression of IL-17-associated cytokines. At the same time, the drug reduced the expression of CCL3, CCL13, CCL25, and CD40, which may play a role in the abnormal proliferation of thymocytes and chronic inflammatory response at the neuromuscular junction. Future studies with multiplex assays are needed to confirm the involvement of other differentially expressed cytokines, such as SIRT2 and AXIN1, which may contribute to disease mechanisms outside the identified pathways.Copyright © 2026 Yuanyuan Geng et al. Journal of Immunology Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Intradermal injections of anti-canine immunoglobulin E (IgE) in healthy dogs have been utilized in preclinical drug testing to evaluate the efficacy of anti-allergic drugs used to treat canine atopic dermatitis (AD). However, the molecular effects of established canine anti-allergic drugs on this acute canine IgE-mediated atopic model remain largely uninvestigated. The objective of this study was to characterize the effect of proactive oclacitinib and prednisolone treatments on the immune and skin barrier transcriptome of IgE-mediated late-phase reactions (LPRs) in an acute model of canine AD. Sixteen healthy adult research-bred beagles were randomized to receive either oclacitinib or prednisolone orally for six days, followed by an intradermal anti-canine IgE injection. Biopsies were collected 24 h post-injection for RNA isolation and sequencing; previously analyzed transcriptomes (healthy skin, saline-injected skin, IgE lesions without drug modulation) from the same colony of dogs served as controls. Administration of prednisolone and oclacitinib prior to intradermal anti-IgE injections reduced the number of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in 24 h samples to 1251 and 1471, respectively. Both treatments resulted in a decrease in expression of several significantly upregulated T helper-(Th)1 (e.g., MX1, OAS1, STAT1), Th2 (e.g., CCL13, CCL8, IL13RA1, IL-33, IL5RA, OSM), chemokine and receptor (e.g., CCL19, CCL2, CCL3, CCR1, CCR3) genes in comparison to the untreated IgE-mediated lesions. Interestingly, only prednisolone treatment significantly reduced IL-13 upregulation, an important gene in the Th2 immune response. In conclusion, both prednisolone and oclacitinib reduced the transcriptomic changes observed in the acute lesions of the canine IgE-induced atopic dermatitis model, with prednisolone inducing a broader inhibitory immune response.
Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) is a common, dose-limiting toxicity of cancer treatment, yet reliable biomarkers to predict individual susceptibility remain lacking. Germline genetic variation has been widely investigated as a potential contributor to CIPN risk; however, the consistency and clinical utility of these associations remain unclear. We performed a systematic review of genetic association studies evaluating CIPN across neurotoxic chemotherapies. PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, and the Cochrane Library were searched (April 2025) for human studies assessing germline variants in relation to clinician- or patient-reported CIPN. Eligible studies were identified in four major drug classes: vincristine, taxanes, platinum agents, and bortezomib. Study characteristics, phenotyping approaches, ancestry, and variant-level data were extracted, and study quality was assessed using Q-Genie. Meta-analysis was not performed due to substantial heterogeneity in study design and outcome measures. 72 studies were included, predominantly involving cohorts of European ancestry. The most consistently replicated loci were CEP72 and ETAA1 for vincristine-induced neuropathy; EPHA5, FGD4, and FZD3 for taxane-induced neuropathy; and ABC transporter genes and GSTP1 for platinum-induced neuropathy. For bortezomib, associations involving TRPV1, DNA repair pathways, and inflammatory signalling showed emerging but largely non-replicated evidence. Across studies, marked heterogeneity in CIPN definitions, phenotyping instruments, statistical approaches, and effect allele reporting limited comparability and reproducibility. Collectively, these findings indicate that current pharmacogenomic approaches to CIPN are constrained by poor replication, population bias, and inconsistent methodology, which hinder translation into clinically actionable biomarkers. Future progress will require harmonised phenotyping, multi-ancestry genome-wide studies, and integration of functional validation to enable robust risk stratification and precision oncology approaches to CIPN.Identifier PROSPERO [CRD42025635757].Copyright © 2026 Maganti, Rankothge, Sakadales, Kok, Britton, Rao, Shatunova, Shimell, Zambrano, Park, Schweitzer, Laakso, Yengo, Vetter and Starobova.
This study was undertaken to characterize the clinical and genetic spectrum of RHOBTB2-related disorders (RHOBTB2-RDs) in a Chinese population, explore genotype-phenotype correlations, and develop a refined clinical framework to improve diagnosis and management.We conducted a comprehensive analysis by integrating data from 12 Chinese patients (five retrospective, seven from literature) with 79 international cases from published studies. Genetic analysis focused on variant classification and hotspot identification. Standardized phenotypic data extraction was performed, followed by systematic classification and correlation analyses.In the Chinese cohort, all variants were de novo missense mutations, with 75% in the Broad-complex, Tramtrack, and Bric-à-brac (BTB) domain and conserved hotspots (e.g., p.Arg483His). Across the combined cohort (N = 91), RHOBTB2-RDs presented a broad phenotypic spectrum. As an exploratory proposal, we introduce paroxysmal encephalopathy with weakness (PEW) as a potential novel clinical phenotypic cluster, strongly associated with BTB domain variants. A practical subtyping framework was proposed: the BTB subtype (severe developmental and epileptic encephalopathy [DEE] with prominent paroxysmal features, often necessitating aggressive seizure management), the truncating/splicing subtype (primarily intellectual disability/developmental delay and movement disorders with epilepsy, requiring focused neurodevelopmental support), the guanosine triphosphatase subtype (a mixed phenotype with a generally more favorable neurodevelopmental course), and the interdomain subtype (frequently associated with PEW alongside DEE or paroxysmal movement disorders).This study systematically characterizes RHOBTB2-RDs in Chinese patients, confirming conserved pathogenic hotspots across ethnicities and identifying population-specific features. The proposed clinical subtyping framework and PEW diagnostic criteria provide valuable tools for improving diagnostic accuracy and guiding personalized management of RHOBTB2-RDs.© 2026 International League Against Epilepsy.
Eosinophilic chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (eCRSwNP) is characterized by intense type 2 inflammation and high recurrence rate. The precise spatial determinants and cellular mechanisms sustaining tissue eosinophilia within the polyp microenvironment remain unkown. This study aimed to identify the spatially cellular niches driving eosinophil recruitment and evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of targeting specific macrophage-driven pathogenic loops in eCRSwNP.Transcriptomic profiles were analyzed using bulk RNA-sequencing of nasal polyp tissues from CRSwNP patients (n = 30, stratified by eosinophilic severity) and healthy controls (HC, n = 10). Spatial transcriptomics (GeoMx DSP) and single-cell RNA sequencing analyses were utilized to map macrophage niches. Mechanistic findings were validated ex vivo and in vitro using human sinonasal explant models and migration assays, incorporating an independent cohort of healthy controls (n = 12).Bulk transcriptomics of nasal polyps stratified across a gradient of tissue eosinophil density identified ALOX15 and CCL13 as top candidates positively correlating with tissue eosinophilia. Spatial transcriptomics revealed that subepithelial ALOX15+ macrophages served as the primary source of CCL13, and the localized CCL13 expression significantly correlated with eosinophil density in epithelial areas. Mechanistically, IL-4/IL-13 induces ALOX15-ERK-CCL13 axis in macrophages. Functional explant assays confirmed that ALOX15+ macrophages drive eosinophil recruitment via CCR3. IL-4Ra blockade with Dupilumab or Stapokibart abrogated the pathogenic ALOX15-CCL13 loop and attenuated eosinophil chemotaxis.Our findings identify the subepithelial ALOX15+ macrophage niche as a pivotal spatial determinant of eosinophilia in eCRSwNP. Targeting this specialized immune hub with emerging biologics offers a promising precision therapeutic strategy.
Osteoporosis (OP) is a multifactorial skeletal disorder marked by reduced bone mass and microstructural deterioration. We investigated potential diagnostic biomarkers and immunometabolic targets through integrated bioinformatics and machine learning analysis.Batch-corrected GEO transcriptomic data were analyzed by WGCNA to identify OPassociated modules. An optimal diagnostic model was established using 12 machine learning algorithms (113 combinations). Immune infiltration and pathway activity were evaluated by CIBERSORT and GSEA, and hub genes were validated by qRT-PCR in plasma samples.The best random forest-based model had good predictive performance for both the training dataset and validation dataset (AUC > 0.80). Ten hub genes were finally screened out as candidate diagnostic biomarkers: POLA1, ARAP1, MAP7D1, TSPYL2, MRPL4, PPP1R14D, INTS1, SMARCB1, DLK1, and FPGT. Functional analyses showed enrichment in immunerelated and metabolic pathways, including PI3K-Akt signaling and pentose phosphate metabolism. These genes correlated with immune cell alterations, such as CD8⁷ T cells, Th17 cells, and macrophages. qRT-PCR validation confirmed their significant differential expression in OP samples.This study underscores immune-metabolic dysregulation at the core of OP pathobiology. Although heterogeneity existed in external validation cohorts, and sample sizes were small, our integrative analysis pipeline enhances the precision and clinical relevance of potential biomarkers.The study concluded that this work identified ten possible diagnostic biomarkers, and provided a mechanism for understanding the interaction between immune metabolism and OP, which will help guide further research on precision diagnosis and treatment in OP.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a heterogeneous autoimmune disorder characterized by unpredictable flares and variable clinical quiescence. Despite validated clinical indices like the British Isles Lupus Assessment Group (BILAG) score, reliable molecular biomarkers for monitoring disease activity remain limited, particularly in underrepresented South Asian populations. Weaimed to identify arobust molecular framework to distinguish SLE flares from remission in an Indian cohort.We conducted a discovery-phase study in an Indian cohort (n=16) stratified by Easy-BILAG scoring. Plasma proteomic profiling via LC-MS/MS was integrated with targeted cytokine quantification using the Olink Proximity Extension Assay (PEA). Differential expression and network analyses delineated immune-regulatory, hypoxic-vascular, and myeloid-activation pathways. A Random Forest classifier was trained on selected biomarkers and evaluated using leave-one-out cross-validation (LOOCV), permutation testing, and bootstrapped AUROC confidence intervals, with model interpretability assessed by SHAP values. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD075349.Proteomic comparison identified a compact panel of proteins distinguishing flare from remission, characterized by a molecular polarization; flare states exhibited upregulation of COL18A1 and CSF1 (vascular and myeloid activation), while remission showed sustained expression of cytoskeletal scaffolding and immunoregulatory components, including FLNA, SH3BGRL3, and IGHG4. Cytokine analyses identified coordinated chemokine modules (CXCL9, CCL2, CCL3, and CCL13) preferentially upregulated during flare. The machine-learning model achieved robust internal discrimination with a mean AUROC of 0.96. Notably, a COL18A1 normalized protein expression cut-off yielded 100% specificity and 87.5% sensitivity, acting as an objective 'rule-in' adjunct for active disease. Normalized protein expression (NPX) cut-off yielded 100% specificity and 87.5% sensitivity, acting as an objective "rule-in" adjunct for active disease.This study establishes a parsimonious 5-protein biosignature of candidate leads (COL18A1, HYOU1, IGHG4, FLNA, and SH3BGRL3) that effectively captures the multifactorial pathophysiology of SLE flare. By anchoring discovery in a systematically under sampled Indian population, this work enhances global diversity in lupus biomarker research and establishes a scalable, AI-driven framework for precision assessment of disease activity.Copyright © 2026 Karmakar, Mishra, Kumar, Kamath, Ravindran, Suryakanth, Prabhu, Nagaraju, Prabhu and Karmakar.
Childhood-onset dystonia (COD) encompasses a clinically and etiologically heterogeneous group of disorders, often with overlapping features. Genetic testing plays a pivotal role in uncovering underlying causes, identifying treatable subtypes, and informing individualized management strategies.To delineate the molecular genetic etiology, phenotypic characteristics, and treatment strategies in a multicenter cohort with gene-related CODs.The study cohort comprised 81 patients with gene-related COD from 19 tertiary pediatric neurology centers in Turkiye. Clinical phenomenology, biochemical, electrophysiological, neuroimaging findings, diagnostic genetic tests, causative genes and variants, inheritance patterns, gene-related phenotypes, treatment modalities, and their efficacy were gathered.A diverse genetic landscape was identified in the cohort of 81 patients, revealing 62 distinct (pathogenic/likely pathogenic) variants across 26 genes. The genetic diagnoses were established through whole-exome sequencing (49.4%), single-gene testing (25.9%), and targeted gene panels (23.5%). Of the 81 patients, 59 had single-nucleotide variants (SNVs), 21 had deletions or duplications, and one patient carried a pathogenic trinucleotide repeat expansion. The common etiologies of gene-related COD were KMT2B (16%), GCH1 (11.1%), SLC2A1 (11.1%), GNAO1 (8.6%), TOR1A (8.6%), GNAL (6.2%). Rare etiologies were SLC18A2 and TH (each 4.9%), ATP1A3, NKX2-1, PRKN, SCN4A, THAP1 (each 2.5%), and ultra-rare etiologies (single patients) were: ACY5, ADPRS, ANO3, COL6A3, DNM1L, GNB1, HTT, PRKRA, PRRT2, RHOBTB2, SETX, SLC6A3, TUBB4A (1.2%). Based on Gene Ontology classification, the most represented functional categories were neurotransmission (n = 18, 22.2%), gene expression (n = 17, 20.9%), and signaling (n = 14, 17.3%). Genetic diagnosis influenced treatment modalities with pharmacotherapy modification or implementation of deep brain stimulation in 60.5% of the cohort, with targeted therapies being more effective than symptomatic treatments (p = 0.0118).This nationwide study highlights the phenotypic and genetic diversity of gene-related COD with certain therapeutic implications based on the molecular etiology-specific diagnosis.Copyright © 2026 European Paediatric Neurology Society. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Renal tubular epithelial cells are increasingly recognized as active participants in the pathogenesis of diabetic kidney disease, where tubular injury often precedes glomerular dysfunction. Exosomes, as critical mediators of intercellular communication, may transmit signals between renal tubules with glomeruli. However, the specific role of exosomes derived from renal tubular epithelial cells (RTECs) in modulating podocyte function, particularly during the early stages of diabetic kidney disease, remains unclear.Exosomes derived from RTECs cultured under high glucose and palmitic acid (HG + PA) conditions were isolated and administered to wild-type mice or incubated with cultured podocytes to evaluate their biological impact. In parallel, plasma exosomes from diabetic kidney disease patients were isolated to assess their biological effects. Exosomes derived from HK-2 cells cultured under HG + Pa conditions were isolated and subjected to miRNA sequencing, followed by target screening via miRDB prediction. The functional role of miR-20a-5p was assessed in vivo using adeno-associated virus (AAV) mediated overexpression and knockdown in db/m and db/db mice, respectively. Furthermore, an in vitro co-culture system of HK-2 cells and podocytes was established to mimic tubule-to-podocyte crosstalk. The molecular interaction between myosin X and F-actin was interrogated using dual-luciferase reporter assays, co-immunoprecipitation, and molecular dynamics simulations.Exosomes derived from HG + PA-treated RTECs induced podocyte foot process effacement and downregulated key cytoskeleton-associated proteins including nephrin, CD2AP, and myosin X. Exosomal miRNA sequencing identified miR-20a-5p as the most significantly upregulated miRNA under diabetic conditions. Overexpression of miR-20a-5p in db/m mice recapitulated podocyte injury, whereas knockdown in db/db mice mitigated foot process effacement. Dual-luciferase assays confirmed that miR-20a-5p directly targets the 3' untranslated region of myo10. The knockdown of myo10 disrupted its binding to F-actin and decreased the expression of cytoskeletal regulatory proteins. Molecular dynamics simulations were employed to assess the structural stability and interaction dynamics between myosin X and F-actin. In co-culture systems, miR-20a-5p modified HK-2 cells significantly altered podocyte morphology and F-actin integrity, confirming its regulatory role via exosome-mediated signaling.This study identifies miR-20a-5p as a key exosomal mediator released by RTECs under diabetic conditions, contributing to podocyte cytoskeletal remodeling by targeting myo10. These findings offer new insights into the pathogenic crosstalk between tubules and glomeruli, indicating exosome-mediated miRNA signaling as a potential target in early diabetic kidney disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a multifactorial malignancy often diagnosed at an advanced stage due to nonspecific early symptoms. Accurate prognostic stratification is essential for individualized therapy but remains challenging because of biological and clinical heterogeneity. This study aimed to develop and validate a gene expression-based prognostic signature for locally advanced NPC.This retrospective biomarker investigation combined transcriptomic profiling and survival analyses. A prognostic model was constructed using LASSO-Cox regression in the discovery cohort (N = 99) from the multicenter, randomized phase III trial NPC-0501, and validated in independent cohorts (N = 133) from Queen Elizabeth Hospital (QEH), Hong Kong, and Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center (SYS), Guangzhou, using different profiling methods. Mechanisms underlying the signature were explored using single-cell RNA-seq (scRNA-seq) data. The primary outcome was 3-year progression-free survival (PFS), with 5-year overall survival (OS) as a secondary end point. Performance was evaluated using hazard ratios (HRs) and survival probabilities (SP).A 5-gene signature (SPP1, IL18BP, PALMD, WDR35, and SOCS6) predicted 3-year PFS in the NPC-0501 cohort (HR, 0.046 [95% CI, 0.011 to 0.190]; P < .001), separating high-risk from low-risk patients (SP, 42.9% v 96.0%; P < .0001). It predicted survival in both validation cohorts, with associations with 5-year OS in QEH (SP, 72.7% v 100%; P < .001) and 3-year PFS in SYS (SP, 70.5% v 93.2%; P = .0059). It outperformed a published metastasis-related model. Single-cell analyses showed SPP1 enrichment in M2 macrophages, linking high risk with an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment.A robust five-gene signature was established and validated for prognostic stratification of locally advanced NPC. Reproducibility across transcriptomic platforms and biological relevance support clinical application to guide personalized treatment.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301607
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) remains challenging to treat due to clinical heterogeneity and a lack of prognostic biomarkers. To address this, we developed a prognostic signature based on platelet-related genes (PRGs). By analyzing transcriptomic data from TCGA-LAML, GSE146173, and Beat AML 2.0 cohorts, we identified and validated an 11-gene signature (PSME2, PPIF, SYTL4, S100A4, CCND3, SMIM15, PARVB, STXBP5, KCNMB1, GABRE, SLC50A1) using LASSO-Cox regression. This model effectively stratified patients into high- and low-risk groups with distinct survival outcomes (p < 0.001) and demonstrated high predictive accuracy (1-/3-/5-year AUC: 0.832/0.782/0.880). High-risk patients exhibited immunosuppressive features, including upregulated immune checkpoints (CD274, CTLA4, HAVCR2, LAG3, PDCD1LG2, PDCD1), prominent monocyte infiltration, and reduced dendritic`11 cell activity. Drug sensitivity analysis suggested gefitinib, zebularine, and simvastatin as potential therapies for high-risk AML (p < 0.05). We further validated the signature's prognostic value using qPCR and clinical grouping. Notably, in vitro studies indicated that KCNMB1 facilitates AML progression. In conclusion, our robust PRG-based model elucidates the link between platelet biology, immune dysregulation, and therapeutic vulnerability in AML, offering clinical utility for risk stratification and treatment decisions.© 2026 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a common degenerative disease characterized by the deterioration of articular cartilage, affecting approximately 240 million people worldwide. Low-grade inflammation-particularly the imbalance in macrophage polarization-is a critical factor in osteoarthritis progression. M1-type macrophages exacerbate cartilage destruction by secreting pro-inflammatory factors and matrix-degrading enzymes, while M2-type macrophages promote repair through anti-inflammatory factors. While macrophage polarization changes in OA have been reported, the macrophage subpopulation communication architecture and dominant ligand-receptor axes across dynamic state transitions remain unclear-and that this is what our integrated framework aims to address.This study leverages single-cell transcriptomic data, including 6 normal samples and 12 OA samples, to systematically analyze the interaction patterns and key ligand-receptor pairs of M1/M2 macrophages during OA progression. Methods include cell subset annotation, GSVA functional enrichment, pseudotemporal trajectory analysis, and hdWGCNA network construction. This study provides single-cell-level evidence for the inflammatory mechanisms of OA.Cell-cell communication analysis revealed strong bidirectional interactions between M1 and M2 macrophages. Integrative analysis of macrophage subpopulations, pseudotime, hdWGCNA, and cell-cell communication analysis identified SEMA4A as the only overlapping key gene. The SEMA4 signaling pathway exhibited active communication among macrophage subpopulations, with M1 macrophages acting as dominant signal senders. Ligand-receptor analysis showed that SEMA4A-PLXNB2 was the predominant interaction pair with the highest communication probability.This study identified a dynamic "increase-then-decrease" expression pattern of SEMA4A along the macrophage pseudotime trajectory, suggesting its involvement in macrophage differentiation and state transitions. Ligand-receptor analysis revealed SEMA4A-PLXNB2 as the dominant interaction signaling pathway among macrophage subpopulations, with M1 macrophages acting as central hubs in sending and receiving signals. Together with previous evidence that SEMA4A forms a positive feedback loop with NF-κB and amplifies IL-6/TNF-α production, thereby promoting cartilage catabolism and tissue remodeling, these findings indicate that, in osteoarthritic joints, SEMA4A-PLXNB2 signaling pathway sustains and amplifies the inflammatory microenvironment through macrophage-stromal crosstalk and represents a potential therapeutic candidate that warrants further validation.The SEMA4A-PLXNB2 signaling pathway plays an important role in the macrophage-associated inflammatory network and may contribute to the progression of OA, representing a potential therapeutic candidate warranting further validation.Copyright © 2026 Qiu, Huang, Yu, Wei, Ren, Yang, Shi and Wei.
The Chinese mitten crab (Eriocheir sinensis) undergoes periodic molting and exhibits discontinuous muscle growth during its larval metamorphosis, yet the underlying molecular drivers remain poorly understood. Myosin, a central motor protein, is crucial for muscle function and diverse cellular processes.This study integrated transcriptomic analysis across three key developmental stages (zoea, megalopa, and early juvenile) with a systematic genome-wide characterization of the myosin gene family in E. sinensis. Transcriptomics revealed that myosin genes were dynamically regulated and were among 196 genes continuously upregulated in both the megalopa vs. zoea and early juvenile vs. megalopa comparisons. These co-upregulated genes are involved in tissue remodeling and nutrient metabolism, with functional enrichment highlighting tight junction assembly and actin cytoskeleton regulation. We identified 23 myosin genes (EsinMyos) in the E. sinensis genome, belonging to 11 subfamilies, with a notable representation of the conventional myosin II (Myo2) subfamily, which comprises nine members-a pattern consistent with Myo2 abundance in crustaceans across 42 surveyed animal species. Chromosomal clustering of EsinMyo2 genes on chromosome 35 suggests that tandem duplication event(s) contributed to this phenomenon. Phylogenetic analysis across 42 animal species confirmed the high conservation of myosin classes and revealed the absence of Myo10, Myo16, and Myo28 in all examined arthropods, indicating lineage-specific gene loss. Structural comparison further identified an atypical Myo2, truncated EsinMyo2-1. Expression profiling demonstrated distinct stage-specific patterns for different EsinMyos; for instance, EsinMyo1D and EsinMyo2-8 showed progressively increasing expression from zoea to juvenile, while EsinMyo15 was highest in zoea.These findings underscore the pivotal and coordinated role of the myosin gene family in supporting the phase-specific morphological and physiological demands of muscle development and metamorphosis in E. sinensis, providing valuable genetic insights for aquaculture and developmental biology.© 2026. The Author(s).
Zebrafish, in contrast to mammals, regenerate neurons after spinal cord injury, but little is known about the control mechanisms of this process. Here we use scRNA-seq and in vivo experiments to show that sema4ab, mainly expressed by lesion-reactive microglia, attenuates regenerative neurogenesis by changing the complex lesion environment. After spinal injury, disruption of sema4ab doubles the number of newly generated progenitor cells and neurons but attenuates axon regrowth and recovery of swimming function. Disruption of the plxnb1a/b receptors, selectively expressed by neural progenitor cells, increases regenerative neurogenesis. In addition, disruption of sema4ab alters activation state and cytokine expression of microglia, such that fibroblasts increase expression of the cytokine tgfb3, which strongly promotes regenerative neurogenesis. Hence, we propose that sema4ab expression in microglia attenuates regenerative neurogenesis in multiple ways, likely directly through plxnb1a/b receptors and indirectly, by controlling the inflammatory milieu and tgfb3 levels. Targeting Sema4A-dependent signaling in non-regenerating vertebrates may be a future strategy to improve regenerative outcomes.Copyright: © 2026 Docampo-Seara et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Excessive abdominal fat deposition reduces production efficiency and metabolic health, whereas yolk lipid content is directly linked to egg quality and reproductive output. These two fat-related traits are often in conflict from a breeding perspective, yet whether they share common genetic and molecular determinants-and whether such sharing could inform divergent selection for lean abdomen with lipid‑rich yolk-remains unclear. Here, we analyzed 22 fat deposition-related traits in a population of 248 laying hens, together with genome-wide genotyping data, transcriptomic data from 10 tissues. Our results showed marked heterogeneity in the genetic architecture of fat deposition-related traits, with a higher degree of signal sharing among biologically related traits but limited overlap across different trait categories. Multi-trait association and trait-trait colocalization analyses further identified multiple shared loci between abdominal fat-related (AF) and egg yolk-related (EY) traits, including several shared candidate signals on chromosomes 2, 10, and 11. Integrative analyses incorporating multi-tissue cis-eQTL data further prioritized shared candidate regulatory genes, including MYO10, GPT2, VPS35, ADAM10, ALDH1A2, and MYO1E. Representative AF-EY shared loci, including 2__74614272, rs318039150, and rs741038415, showed opposite effect tendencies between abdominal fat- and yolk-related traits, whereas loci involving ADAM10, ALDH1A2, and MYO1E showed more directionally consistent associations, indicating both potential antagonistic and coordinated regulatory relationships. Together, these findings reveal a complex shared molecular basis linking abdominal fat deposition and yolk lipid deposition during the extended laying period and provide a framework for dissecting coordinated regulatory mechanisms and informing molecular breeding in laying hens.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Species of Cylindrocladiella are soil-borne fungi that are distributed in temperate, sub-tropical and tropical regions of the world. Very little is known regarding the biology of these fungi that are mostly considered as saprobes, but there have also been reports of pathogenicity in some cases. Prior to this study, 46 species of Cylindrocladiella were known based on DNA sequence comparisons and phylogenetic analyses. Only seven of those species have been reported from China, some of which were associated with diseases of woody plants. In this study, soil samples were collected from natural forests and plantations in eight provinces (autonomous regions) of northeastern, central, southeastern, southwestern, and southern regions of China. A total of 914 soil samples were analysed, resulting in 407 Cylindrocladiella isolates. They were identified based on morphological characteristics and phylogenetic analyses of DNA sequence data for the tef1, tub2, his3, and ITS regions. This resulted in the identification of eight known, and 22 novel species. Cylindrocladiella spp. tended to be widely distributed in forest soils across a wide range of climatic zones. The species diversity in warm areas was higher than in cooler areas. Of the 68 species now recognised and verified based on DNA data, these fungi are known from more than 25 countries, of which 57 species were isolated from soils, 18 from plant tissues, and nine from both soils and plant tissues. Species with wide geographic distributions including putative pathogens such as, Cy. peruviana and Cy. parva that have been found on multiple plant species, while others are confined to more limited niches. The exceptionally large number of new species found in this study suggests that Cylindrocladiella species have been poorly sampled and that many more are likely to be found in warm and humid environments. Overall, this study provides a foundation for future investigations aimed at clarifying the evolutionary relationships, ecology, and pathology of this interesting and little understood genus. Citation: Zhou WW, Dong HB, Zhou HX, Crous PW, Wingfield MJ, Chen SF (2026). Forest soils: A species-rich habitat for Cylindrocladiella. Persoonia 56: 548-605. doi: 10.3114/persoonia.2026.56.09.© 2026 Westerdijk Fungal Biodiversity Institute.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42493262
Pheidole parva Mayr (1865) is a small ubiquitous ant native to the Indomalayan region where it is considered a pest in healthcare facilities. This tramp ant was first reported outside its native range more than 100 years ago in the Seychelles Islands. Since then, it has been found in other areas of the Old World, where it was likely accidentally introduced via trading ships. In the 2000s, this ant was detected in Japan (2001), the Arabian Peninsula (2009), and recently in the Mediterranean island of Cyprus (2023) and Lebanon (2025). Here, we describe its first occurrence in North America, in the state of Florida where both Nearctic and Neotropical realms meet. Our findings are based on recent Pheidole parva specimens collected throughout the state, curated iNaturalist observations, Antweb data, and DNA barcoding based on the mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase subunit I (COI) gene. Among the 26 P. parva specimens analyzed from Florida, we found three different COI haplotypes. Two of them were also found in other introduced areas; however, one of the haplotypes has only been detected in a native population. The three haplotypes were distributed throughout the state with no clear geographical structure, consistent with multiple introductions and broad establishment of this non-native ant in Florida.© 2026. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the US; foreign copyright protection may apply.
Despite doubts that have lasted for centuries, the carnivorous marsh pitcher plants of the genus Heliamphora can secrete their own hydrolytic digestive enzymes similar to those of other genera of carnivorous plants. The marsh pitcher plant (Heliamphora sp.) is a genus of carnivorous plant in which the production of endogenous enzymes for prey digestion is still dubious. In this study, we tried to elucidate the ability of prey digestion by the plant's own hydrolytic enzymes in H. parva, H. neblinae, and the hybrid H. heterodoxa × minor. Three Heliamphora taxa were fed on fruit flies, and pitcher fluids were analyzed using liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS), Western blots, and enzyme activity measurements for the presence of endogenous hydrolytic enzymes. Production of the enzymes in pitchers through ontogeny was also investigated. Asian pitcher plant Nepenthes truncata was used as a reference carnivorous plant. All investigated taxa produced plant-derived hydrolytic enzymes similar to those found in other carnivorous plant genera. The most important are aspartic protease, subtilisin-like protease, type III chitinase, β-1,3-glucanase, purple acid phosphatase, and GDSL esterase/lipase. Although some variability exists among studied taxa, in general, the activity of phosphatase and proteolytic enzymes was low and increased over time, irrespective of feeding status. Immunoblotting of aspartic protease showed that the abundance of the enzyme in pitcher fluid can accumulate developmentally without any prey stimuli. The microbial and prey-derived proteins were almost exclusively detected in fed samples. In conclusion, our study suggests that the species of the genus Heliamphora can be considered as holocarnivorous plants with the ability to produce their own endogenous hydrolytic enzymes, which, however, does not rule out the contribution of microbial digestion in their natural habitat. Moreover, their own digestive potential can be strongly diminished in nature due to the absence of a protective lid and high rainfall in some parts of the year, diluting the pitcher fluids.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
To date, effective preventive and therapeutic strategies for early-stage bradyarrhythmia remain limited.We first calculated two well-established biological aging (BA) measures (Klemera-Doubal Method [KDM] and Phenotypic Age [PhenoAge]), with BA acceleration defined as the residual from regressing each BA measure on chronological age. Cox proportional hazards models were used to evaluate the effects of BA acceleration on bradyarrhythmia risk. We then conducted epigenetic Mendelian randomization (MR) and colocalization analyses to prioritize aging-related DNA methylation CpG sites for bradyarrhythmias.In the UK Biobank cohort of 298,214 individuals, per 1-SD increase in PhenoAge acceleration and KDM-BA acceleration were significantly associated with a 13% (HR = 1.13, 95% CI 1.11-1.15, P < 0.001) and 11% (HR = 1.11, 95% CI 1.09-1.13, P < 0.001) higher incidence of bradyarrhythmia. Epigenetic MR and colocalization analyses suggested that cg11410859 (SCN5A), cg18249173 (TBX20), cg07185587 (AKAP6), cg16555537 (TRIP6), cg10459018, cg03473532 (MKLN1), and cg13654588 (PRLHR) were associated with a reduced risk of bradyarrhythmias, whereas cg25286333 (RNF207) and cg02447380 (RAB42) were associated with an increased risk of bradyarrhythmias.In summary, our study elucidated the role of accelerated biological aging and underlying epigenetic modifications in bradyarrhythmia, providing novel insights into its prevention and treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Nuclear speckles are membraneless organelles that act as active splicing hubs especially at sites of high transcription. Emerging views of this dynamic subnuclear structure place it as a hub of RNA processing, impacting steps from transcription to nuclear export. To manage this complex microcosm of RNA metabolism, phosphorylation by kinases is required for nuclear speckles to execute their functions. The nuclear speckle-localized kinase, TAOK2, mediates the splicing and export of viral transcripts at the nuclear speckle, but its role in the processing of cellular transcripts was unknown. We used siRNA knockdown of TAOK2 and assessed RNA transcripts in both whole-cell and nucleocytoplasmic fractions to characterize the complete endogenous effects of TAOK2. We found that TAOK2 knockdown impacts >10% of the transcriptome, through changes in alternative splicing, nuclear export, and transcript abundance. Cellular and biochemical phosphoproteomics further revealed nuclear speckle scaffolding proteins SRRM1 and SRRM2 as potential direct phosphorylation targets of TAOK2, mediating its large effects on speckle integrity and speckle-localized splicing. Indeed, knockdown of TAOK2 perturbs almost all speckle-resident serine/arginine (SR)-rich proteins while leaving heterogeneous ribonucleoproteins unperturbed. Altogether, we propose that phosphorylation of SRRM1/2 by TAOK2 plays a structural maintenance role that impacts SR protein-driven exon inclusion at the nuclear speckle.© 2026 Begg et al.; Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.
Topmouth gudgeon Pseudorasbora parva is a small invasive cyprinid fish widely distributed across Eurasia, including Türkiye. Although extensive, the available cytogenetic data from Asian populations is confined to standard karyotyping. Here we present the first molecular cytogenetic characterization of P. parva by analyzing the population from the Sakarya spring (Eskişehir Province, Türkiye). The aim was to examine the chromosomal organization and distribution of selected repetitive DNA sequences and this way to provide novel insights into karyotype evolution within Gobionidae and evaluate the utility of cytogenetic markers for freshwater management of this invasive species. To that end, we combined conventional karyotyping, C-banding, fluorescent and silver-nitrate staining with fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) using probes for tandemly repeated genes for ribosomal RNA (18S and 5S rDNA), small nuclear RNA (U1 and U2 snDNA), and telomeric (TTAGGG)n sequences. Analyzed individuals (N = 10) showed a diploid chromosome number of 2n = 50 with the karyotype being composed of 18 metacentric, 26 submetacentric, and 6 subtelocentric chromosomes (FN = 94), and with constitutive heterochromatin confined to pericentromeric regions. Silver staining as well as Chromomycin A3 and 18S rDNA FISH probe revealed invariably a single pair of major 45S rDNA cluster on the short arms of the subtelocentric pair 23, with notable size heteromorphism between the homologs. 5S rDNA occupied (peri)centromeric regions of the submetacentric pair 10 and short arms of the subtelocentric pair 25, whereas the U1 and U2 snDNA clusters were co-localized on the short arms of subtelocentric pair 24. The telomeric probe marked chromosomal ends only. The Turkish P. parva population exhibits a conserved karyotype but the heterochromatin and repetitive DNA patterns allow to infer its closer relationship to European lineages. These findings provide new insights into Gobionidae genome organization and the chromosomal evolution and reveal the possible utility of cytogenetics in monitoring the dispersal of populations of invasive freshwater fishes.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Prostate cancer (PCa) is a prevalent urological malignancy in men, with bone metastasis occurring in the majority of patients, often leading to poor clinical outcomes. Despite its clinical significance, reliable prognostic biomarkers for metastatic PCa remain limited. Immunogenic cell death (ICD), a regulated form of cell death, has emerged as a key modulator of the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) and a potential determinant of the immunotherapy response. However, the functional role of ICD in PCa progression, particularly in bone metastasis, remains poorly understood. This study aimed to elucidate the prognostic implications of ICD in PCa and develop an ICD-correlated signature (ICDCS) model to improve risk stratification and therapeutic decision-making.We developed the ICDCS model by integrating multi-omics data, including single-cell transcriptomics, and leveraging computational approaches, such as AddModuleScore, WGCNA, ssGSEA, and 10 machine-learning algorithms (with 98 combinations). Its diagnostic and prognostic performances were rigorously assessed in the training cohort and two independent validation sets, offering a clinically applicable tool for outcome prediction. To gain deeper insights into prognostic features, we performed functional enrichment, immune infiltration, and immunotherapy response analyses. Additionally, we evaluated differential responses to immunotherapy across risk subgroups and identified potential personalized therapeutics. Finally, the vitro experiment validation of the key genes further strengthened the reliability of our findings.By integrating single-cell and bulk transcriptomic datasets, we identified 49 ICD-related genes, including nine linked to disease-free survival. By using genes common to both the training and validation sets, the final 8 key genes (MBNL1, IRAK3, CD59, LPP, TACC1, PRNP, CDC42EP3, and MYADM) were incorporated into 98 machine-learning computational frameworks for constructing ICDCS, and the Enet [α = 0.3] algorithm was finally chosen to build the model. In vitro validation confirmed the reduced expression of all eight genes in PCa cells, which was consistent with their putative protective roles. The ICDCS model exhibited robust prognostic accuracy for both the clinical outcomes and pathological features. Risk stratification based on ICDCS scores revealed distinct biological pathways, mutational profiles, and TIME characteristics between subgroups. Notably, patients in the high-risk subgroup showed an enhanced responsiveness to immunotherapy.In this study, we developed an ICDCS for PCa bone metastases. This model provides a valuable tool for characterizing TIME in metastatic PCa and demonstrates significant clinical utility for prognostic assessment and prediction of immunotherapy response.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
A new species, Actinopyga atypicasp. nov., in the sea cucumber family Holothuriidae, plus two new holothuroid records from the Pakistan coastal waters are here described. The new species differs from all known species of Actinopyga in possessing a cucumariid-type of calcareous ring accompanied by slender, straight, terminally forked rods in the body wall, unlike the thick, usually well-branched rods of other species of the genus, setting it apart from all known congenerics. Of the two additional records one is another holothuriid herein attributed to the Indo-West Pacific species Holothuria (Selenkothuria) erinacea Semper, 1868. It is suspected to be a juvenile of this species in possessing, in addition to the perforated rods and plates in the body wall, well-formed tables, suspected to be a juvenile character, as pertains in its consubgenerics H. (S.) parva Krauss (in Lampert, 1885) and H. (S.) moebii Ludwig, 1883. The third species is a thyonid, Thyonina bijui Thandar, 2017, belonging to the family Thyonidae (sensu Smirnov 2012), originally described from Kerala, India.
The blood-feeding candiru genus Paracanthopoma was monotypic for over 85 years, with ten new species being described in the last four years. Despite this rapid growth, interspecific relationships and boundaries between it and the closely related genus Paravandellia remain intensively debated, with clarification of these boundaries being hampered by the lack of a formal phylogenetic analysis focused on the Vandelliinae. Here, we describe two new species of Paracanthopoma from Brazil and Venezuela based on photomicroscopy, cleared and stained specimens, and µCT imagery and reexamine the current taxonomic status of the genus. Paracanthopoma ventuarensis sp. nov. is described from the Orinoco River basin and Parac. jiparanaensis sp. nov. from the Machado River in northern Brazil, where Parac. parva and Parac. malevola also occur. The two new species here described share with Parac. daemon, Parac. parva, Parac. carrapata, and Parac. truculenta a spine-like anterior process on the parietosupraoccipital and an azygous s6 supratemporal lateral-line pore, thus being allocated to this putative clade.
Lymphatic valves are essential for maintaining tissue fluid homeostasis, and their dysfunction leads to lymphedema, a morbid and disfiguring disease without a cure. Mechanical forces due to lymph flow are required for proper lymphatic valve development, yet it remains unclear how lymphatic endothelial cells (LECs) sense and decode mechanical signals. In this study, we identify the cell guidance semaphorin receptor plexin D1 (PLXND1) as a lymphatic mechanosensor required for lymphatic valve morphogenesis. Conditional genetic ablation of Plxnd1 in LECs caused major defects in lymphatic valve development in 2 different lymphatic vascular beds. Mechanistically, PLXND1 acted as a mechanosensor within a lymphatic mechanocomplex, initiating distinct mechanical signals and activating the lymphatic valve transcriptional program through an unconventional pathway. Screening of patients with primary lymphedema identified PLXND1 missense variants, and functional analysis established 2 pathogenic variants that selectively disrupt the ligand versus mechanosensing functions of this receptor. Variants associated with lymphedema in members of the mechanocomplex disrupted its formation, underscoring the central role of this complex in lymphatic valve biology. Our work uncovers a mechanosensing mechanism guiding lymphatic valve development, and has profound implications for the understanding and treatment of primary lymphedema in humans.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42372934 is a review article
Background/Objectives: Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is a systemic disorder driven by genetic predisposition, epigenetic programming, metabolic rewiring, and immune dysregulation. Although population genetics and single-cell transcriptomics have advanced our understanding, the multi-omic causal architecture of MASLD at cellular resolution remains poorly defined. This study aimed to establish an integrative framework linking genetic causality to cell-type-specific tissue dysfunction. Methods: Multi-layered Mendelian randomization (MR) and summary-data-based MR (SMR) across large-scale eQTL and pQTL datasets were applied to prioritize causal genes. Single-cell eQTL-based MR across 14 immune lineages generated cell-type-specific causal hypotheses, which were validated using human hepatic single-cell RNA-sequencing data (GSE136103). Two-step mediation MR quantified upstream epigenetic and downstream metabolic mechanisms. A high-fat diet (HFD)-induced murine model provided organismal validation. Results: Multi-layered MR nominated PLXND1 as a robust causal driver of MASLD. Single-cell eQTL-based MR revealed a functional dichotomy: PLXND1 upregulation in CD8+ effector memory T-cells decreased MASLD risk (OR = 0.486, 95% CI: 0.290-0.813, p = 0.006), whereas upregulation in natural killer cells (OR = 1.567, 95% CI: 1.337-1.837, p < 0.001), non-classical monocytes, and dendritic cells increased risk. Human hepatic single-cell transcriptomics confirmed that PLXND1 marks an anti-fibrotic, IFNG-high CD8+ T subset and a pro-inflammatory lipid-associated macrophage (LAM) population. Mediation MR identified DNA methylation at cg26767922 and cg08471739 as protective mediators acting predominantly via PLXND1 downregulation (92.39% and 64.50% mediation, respectively), and linked PLXND1 to six circulating metabolites. HFD mice showed significant hepatic PLXND1 upregulation. Conclusions:PLXND1 functions as a lineage-dependent molecular switch in MASLD, validated across genetic, epigenetic, metabolic, and single-cell dimensions. These findings caution against systemic PLXND1 blockade and support precision therapeutic strategies targeting hepatic innate immune cells.
Minimising methane (CH4) emissions from livestock production is a global priority, and feed modifications, such as supplementing diets with microalgae, have previously been shown to help reducing enteric CH4 production. This study explored blood-derived host gene expression profiles from twenty lambs supplemented with increasing levels of microalgae oil to investigate their transcriptional responses associated with varying microalgae oil levels while also exploring the host systemic responses towards varied CH4 productions.Findings revealed no significant changes in CH4 production with increasing levels of microalgae oil intake through phenotypic analysis (P = 0.18). However inter-individual variations in CH4 production ranged from 27.02 to 47.86 g/day throughout the study period. Blood RNA-Sequencing identified 64 significant genes including DHCR7, DHCR24, HMGCS1, INSIG1, LSS, MSMO1, and SQLE, which were involved in lipid metabolism, and steroid biosynthesis that became enriched alongside increasing microalgae oil intake levels thereby contributing to a positive impact on lambs' metabolic functions. Additionally, seven significant blood-expressed host genes (NME4, MARCHF3, PLXNB3, LOC132657460, LOC121819234, LOC105603087, LOC101116551) functionally enriched in nucleotide metabolic pathways and immune responses were identified to have significant positive associations with increasing CH4 production. Importantly, this study found no overlap between genes associated with microalgae oil intake and those linked to CH4 emissions.Findings suggest that microalgae oil intake and inter-individual variations in CH₄ production are associated with distinct blood-derived transcriptional responses. Although such signals should be interpreted as proxies for systemic host responses rather than direct measures of rumen-specific processes, these results emphasise the importance of considering host-associated molecular variations alongside dietary CH₄-mitigation strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Post-translational modifications (PTMs) in APP and MAPT contribute to plaques and tangles in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Yet broader proteome-wide PTMs in the AD brain are relatively unexplored. Therefore, this study highlights associations between PTMs, quantified by mass spectrometry in prefrontal cortex tissue, and Alzheimer's disease neuropathology and cognition. Leveraging PTMs quantified from prefrontal cortices in 101 Rush Memory and Aging Project participants. We assessed associations with post-mortem amyloid-β and tau burden, global cognition, and cognitive decline. First, APP and MAPT PTM associations were assessed on these outcomes given their known relevance in AD, followed by assessment of protein-wide effects of PTMs. Then, kinase enrichment analysis was performed on each outcome to assess which kinases might contribute to the results. We observed a novel association of APP-K687 acetylation, a known mutation hotspot driving pathology, with amyloid-β load (β=0.44, P=3.9e-8), while confirming known MAPT PTMs with tangle burden. Further, we identified 20+ novel PTMs' associations with AD neuropathology, including ENO2-K256 ubiquitination (β=0.353, P=1.13e-6), PSMD13-K31 ubiquitination (β=0.568, P=1.34e-6), and PLXND1-K1826 ubiquitination (β=0.577, P=7.08e-8) for tangle burden and SYP-K23 ubiquitination (β=1.50, P=4.7e-8), TMEFF2-C80 cysteine oxidation (β=1.64, P=1.1e-8), and STX1B-T121 phosphorylation (β=0.898, P=3.3e-7) for amyloid-β load. Further, kinase enrichment analyses highlight the complexity of disease-related proteome changes with some kinases like CDK5 showing expected over-enrichment (amyloid z=3.44, P=3.0e-4; tau z=4.98, P=3.3e-7) but others like PKC family kinases showing divergent enrichment between amyloid (z=8.98-11.55, P<1.0e-18) and tau (z=-2.83--3.88, P<0.006). This study provides an atlas of brain PTMs within crucial proteins like MAPT and APP and at the proteome-wide level, that impact AD neuropathology and clinical presentation. Further, we explored what kinases might be driving phosphorylation results, emphasizing the complex proteome changes which impact AD. In sum, these results highlight robust post-translational alterations in the AD brain and provide novel targets for future mechanistic studies.
We investigated neurotensin receptor 1 (NTSR1) as a potential mediator of the mechanical immune barrier that contributes to T-cell exclusion.The efficacy of immunotherapy in advanced colorectal cancer (CRC) is limited by primary resistance, frequently characterized by an "immune-excluded" phenotype where physical and biological barriers prevent effector T-cell infiltration. Through its high-affinity receptor, NTSR1, neurotensin signaling has been implicated in tumor progression, yet its role in shaping the immune landscape of CRC remains unclear.We integrated transcriptomic and clinical data from The Cancer Genome Atlas discovery cohort with an independent surgical validation cohort from the University of Kentucky. Random Forest machine learning identified molecular features associated with NTS/NTSR1 signaling, and a 3D tumor spheroid co-culture model was employed to evaluate the impact of NTS/NTSR1 signaling on spatial T-cell distribution in vitro.Dual-cohort analyses revealed high NTSR1 expression as an independent risk factor for progression-free interval in the discovery cohort and overall survival in the validation cohort. Mechanistically, the NTS/NTSR1 axis upregulates a mechano-structural network centered on PLXNB3, FLNC, and AHNAK2, while simultaneously driving epithelial dedifferentiation through downregulation of core transcription factors (CDX2, SATB2). Together, these transcriptional programs are associated with the remodeling of the tumor microenvironment into an immune-cold, suppressive state. Moreover, 3D modeling indicated that ligand-activated NTS/NTSR1 signaling restricts T-cell infiltration, which was significantly reversed by the NTSR1 antagonist SR48692, providing functional support for a mechanical immune barrier proposed based on transcriptomic remodeling.Targeting the NTS/NTSR1 axis may attenuate biological and physical barriers underlying immune exclusion, providing a preclinical rationale for converting immune-excluded CRCs into immune-responsive tumors.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) and Neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2) are autosomal dominant disorders that originate from Schwann cells and are characterized by the development of benign and malignant tumors, respectively. This study investigated the genetic and proteomic profiles of tumors.Mutational analyses were performed on the neurofibromatosis type 1 and type 2 genes (NF1 and NF2) in 15 NF1 and NF2 patients using Sanger sequencing. TMT-labeled spectrometry was employed to identify the proteomic differences between NF1 and NF2 samples and nerve controls. The loss of heterozygosity (LOH) of the candidate gene EPB41L3 was analyzed. Protein expression in tumor tissues and cell cultures was evaluated using Western blotting and/or immunofluorescence techniques.DNA sequencing revealed frequent mutations within the NF1 and NF2 genes in patients with neurofibromatosis type 1 and type 2, respectively. Compared with normal nerves, RNA sequencing revealed that a total of 159 proteins were significantly differentially expressed in patients with NF1, and 180 proteins were differentially expressed in patients with NF2. Among these, 11 proteins were commonly upregulated and 30 were commonly downregulated in both tumor types. Notably, EPB41L3 was consistently found to be significantly downregulated in both tumors and was predominantly localized in the cytoplasm of HEI193 and NF1 cell cultures. Western blot (WB) analysis indicated that the downregulation in both tumor types was associated with the expression of neurofibromin and Merlin. Loss of heterozygosity (LOH) of EPB41L3 was more prevalent in patients with NF1 (60%) than in patients with NF2 (20%). Furthermore, the overexpression of EPB41L3 inhibited HSC proliferation and cell viability, and significantly upregulates the expression of Merlin and Neurofibromin, whereas EPB41L3 knockdown significantly increased HSC proliferation and viability, and significantly downregulates the expression of Merlin and Neurofibromin.Our data provide an initial insight into the common molecular mechanisms underlying neurofibroma, suggesting that EPB41L3 could serve as a potential therapeutic target for this tumor syndrome.Copyright © 2026 Tao, Zhou, Xu, Ren, Yang, Chen, Wang, Liu, Zhang, Liang, Xu, Zhong and Wang.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42562075 is a review article
HIV remains globally prevalent, and the long-term complications experienced by people living with HIV (PLWH) have increased interest in the functional heterogeneity of extracellular vesicle (EV) subpopulations. Defining these EV subsets may help clarify HIV-associated immune dysregulation and inform future diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.Plasma samples were obtained from three PLWH (HIV+ group) and three healthy controls (HC group). Single-EV surface membrane proteins were profiled using the proximity barcoding assay (PBA), and EV subpopulations were identified by FlowSOM clustering with t-SNE visualization. Functional enrichment analysis, protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis, and database-based annotation were used to infer putative subpopulation functions and cellular origins. Differentially expressed EV proteins (DEPs) were screened using limma, and ligand-receptor interaction networks were constructed with CellPhoneDB and cross-referenced with publicly available single-cell RNA sequencing data.HIV infection did not appear to alter overall EV abundance but was associated with selective remodeling of EV heterogeneity and expansion of distinct EV subpopulations. CD31+ EVs (cluster 2), inferred to be endothelial-derived, were markedly enriched in PLWH. Ligand-receptor analysis suggested that CD31+ EVs may communicate with CD16+ monocytes through F11R-ITGAL/ITGB2 and with plasmablasts through CD31-CD38 interactions; these interactions were associated with inflammatory, leukocyte transendothelial migration, and metabolic pathways. In addition, HIV-enriched B2M+ EVs (clusters 3) and MUC16+ EVs (clusters 9) showed predicted interactions with CD4+ T cells and with CD8+ effector memory T and NK cells, respectively, suggesting potential effects on reservoir-related and cytotoxicity-related programs.These exploratory findings suggest that EV heterogeneity may encode cell-type-specific immune regulatory information in HIV infection and highlight CD31+ EVs as a candidate EV subset associated with HIV-related immune dysregulation. Larger cohorts and functional validation are required before these EV populations can be considered therapeutic targets for HIV cure strategies.Copyright © 2026 Ding, Sun, Zhu, Li, Sun, Yan, Ma, He, Zhang, Yao and Su.
Pancreatic islets respond to obesity-related insulin resistance by increasing β cell mass and insulin secretion. However, the molecular mechanisms behind this vital compensation are not fully understood. This study shows that adaptive islet-derived small extracellular vesicles (aid-sEVs) play a key role in β cell adaptation in obesity. Aid-sEV production rises under hyperlipidemic conditions, and uptake by adjacent cells occurs via F11R-mediated recognition. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) act as downstream effectors after they internalize aid-sEVs, promoting β cell-adaptive responses. These vesicles deliver miR-151 to MSCs, triggering miR-151-dependent cellular reprogramming toward a Wnt-secreting phenotype. Restoration of miR-151 in microRNA-deficient aid-sEVs restores their proadaptive effects on β cells. Klf9, a direct target of miR-151, is involved in regulating MSC proliferation and WNT secretion by controlling Wnt3a and Ccnd1 transcription. These findings reveal a critical pathway controlling β cell compensation in diet-induced obesity and indicate that targeted enhancement of aid-sEV secretion could be a therapeutic strategy to counteract β cell dysfunction in diabetic patients.
Hirschsprung-associated enterocolitis remains a major postoperative complication of Hirschsprung's disease (HD), and impaired epithelial barrier integrity has been proposed as a contributing factor. In this study, we investigated whether 12-hydroxyheptadecatrienoic acid (12-HHT), an endogenous leukotriene B4 receptor 2 (BLT2) agonist, is associated with epithelial barrier enhancement and reduced inflammatory responses in patient-derived colonic organoids.Normoganglionic specimens from rectal/rectosigmoid HD at pull-through (HD-N; n = 8) and transverse colon specimens from anorectal malformation (ARM) at colostomy closure (n = 10) were used to generate colonic organoids. Epithelia were isolated using ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid and subsequently embedded in Matrigel. Baseline expression of TJP1, TJP2, F11R (encoding junctional adhesion molecule-A), JAM2, CLDN1, CLDN3, CLDN4) and LTB4R2 (encoding BLT2) was assessed by qPCR and immunoblotting. Organoids were then treated with 12-HHT (0.4, 2, or 10 μM) for 7 days, followed by qPCR. Additional experiments assessed cytokine expression (IL1B, IL6) and TJPs after 24 h with tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α, 100 ng/mL) plus phosphate buffered saline or 12-HHT. Barrier function was evaluated using FITC-dextran influx assays.HD-N and ARM organoids exhibited similar growth efficiencies. Baseline expression for F11R, JAM2, CLDN1, CLDN3, CLDN4, and LTB4R2 was significantly lower in HD-N than in ARM. TJPs were upregulated by 12-HHT at 2 and 10 μM in both groups, with stronger effects in ARM. In HD-N organoids, 10 μM 12-HHT suppressed TNF-α-induced IL1B and IL6 elevation mitigated tight junction proteins (TJPs) downregulation more effectively than 2 μM. 12-HHT attenuated TNF-α-induced FITC-dextran influx in HD-N organoids.12-HHT is associated with epithelial barrier enhancement and reduced inflammatory responses in HD-N organoids.Copyright: © 2026 Suda et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Furosemide (FSD) is a widely prescribed loop diuretic; however, its potential reproductive toxicity and its underlying mechanism have not been explored yet. The current study assessed the dose-dependent effects of FSD on testicular function in Sprague Dawley rats. Thirty-two male Sprague Dawley rats were apportioned into four groups i.e., control, FSD (10 mg/kg), FSD (20 mg/kg), and FSD (30 mg/kg) treated group. FSD exposure significantly downregulated the expression of blood-testis barrier genes (CLDN11, OCLN, TJP1, F11R, CDH2, GJA1), as well as upregulated pro-inflammatory mediators (NF-κB, TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, COX-2) in a dose-dependent manner, which indicates disruption of intercellular junctions and testicular inflammation. Oxidative stress was significantly increased, as revealed by increased ROS and MDA concentrations and decreased antioxidant enzymes (CAT, SOD, GPx, GSR, HO-1) after FSD exposure. Moreover, FSD intoxication suppressed the levels of reproductive hormones (LH and FSH, testosterone), indicating the impairment of the hypothalamic-gonadal axis. Apoptotic indices showed increased Bax, Caspase-3, Caspase-9 and decreased Bcl-2 after FSD administration, confirming activation of mitochondrial-mediated germ cell death. Similarly, semen analysis showed FSD exposure reduced the number, motility, sperm membrane integrity, and viability while increasing sperm abnormalities. Steroidogenic enzymes (StAR, 3β-HSD, 17β-HSD) were suppressed, which may indicate impaired biosynthesis of testosterone and spermatogenesis. Histopathological evaluations revealed severe degree of seminiferous tubule degeneration, reduction of germ cell population, and structure change of testicular architecture following the administration of FSD. Collectively, these findings demonstrate the multifaceted testicular toxicity of FSD, via disruption of BTB, oxidative stress, hormonal dysregulation, apoptosis and structural degeneration, leading to eventual consequences on male reproductive health. These results distinguish the potential reproductive risk caused by FSD exposure, warranting clinical trials for validation in humans.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
BackgroundIntegrated bioinformatics approaches were used to identify stage-specific candidate genes and potential drug targets in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC).MethodsMicroarray (164 early-stage, 33 advanced-stage, and 53 normal samples) and RNA-seq (113 normal, 163 early-stage, and 30 advanced-stage TNBC samples) datasets were analyzed. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, followed by co-expression analysis using Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) and protein-protein interaction analysis using the STRING database. miRNA co-regulation was evaluated using multiMiR and TCGA correlation analyses. Candidate genes were validated using UALCAN and immunohistochemistry data. Molecular docking assessed potential therapeutic agents.ResultsNovel stage-specific candidate biomarkers were identified, including DNAJC6, SKP2, MOCOS, and NCAPD2 in early-stage TNBC, and F11R, FOXO6, PPP4C, and TMEM51 in advanced-stage TNBC. UALCAN analysis confirmed the dysregulation of these genes across 23 additional malignancies. STRING-based network analysis revealed stage-specific protein-protein interactions, including SKP2-SKP1 in early-stage and F11R-TJP1 in advanced-stage TNBC. miRNA co-regulation distinguished early-stage TNBC through PI3K-AKT-related pathways and advanced-stage TNBC through tumor progression-associated pathways. Docking-based drug repurposing highlighted conventional agents (e.g., doxorubicin) and potential novel candidates (e.g., sunitinib).ConclusionThis study identifies novel stage-specific gene candidates and suggests repurposable drugs for TNBC, supporting progression-specific targeted therapeutic strategies.
Hepatocellular carcinoma ranks among the most prevalent malignancies worldwide. While stress can modulate tumor initiation, progression, metastasis, and therapeutic response through diverse mechanisms, its specific role in hepatocellular carcinoma pathobiology remains elusive. This study aimed to elucidate the role of the gut microbiota in stress-promoted hepatocellular carcinoma progression and to uncover the pathways associated with disease progression.Integrating clinical and preclinical models, we delineated stress-induced restructuring of the gut microbiota and functionally restored specific microbial constituents. Mechanistic insights into the microbial metabolite indole-3-propionic acid were derived through in vitro and in vivo interrogations of the hepatocellular carcinoma tumor microenvironment.Stress profoundly remodels the gut microbiota, with Phocaeicola vulgatus being significantly reduced. Restoration of Phocaeicola vulgatus or administration of its tryptophan-derived metabolite indole-3-propionic acid significantly attenuated hepatocellular carcinoma progression in vivo. Indole-3-propionic acid treatment reduced endothelial JAM2 expression and was associated with reduced JAM2-F11R-mediated endothelial-macrophage crosstalk in hepatocellular carcinoma, which may contribute to suppression of tumor progression.These findings support a role for the stress-gut microbiota-metabolite-tumor microenvironment axis in hepatocellular carcinoma progression and suggest potential translational targets for microbiome-based therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2026 Hu, Yue, Yuan, Zhang, Li, Yang, Li, Ding, Fan, Yang and Cao.
Multiple myeloma (MM) is an incurable malignancy of terminally-differentiated plasma cells that represents a major clinical challenge despite unprecedented therapeutic advances, particularly for patients with cytogenetically-defined high-risk MM (HR-MM). Updated in 2025, the evolving cytogenetic classification of HR-MM includes gains or amplifications in chromosome 1q. One gene of emerging interest on chromosome 1q is F11R, which codes for a protein called Junctional Adhesion Molecule-A (JAM-A). Upregulation of JAM-A has been linked with the development of several aggressive malignancies, most recently MM. In the current study, F11R gene expression was found to be significantly higher in gain/amp(1q) MM patients from the CoMMpass database, and to correlate with poorer overall survival in MM patients. Furthermore, elevated F11R expression was accompanied by an increased burden of circulating CD138+ cells, potentially an early hallmark of extramedullary disease (EMD). As JAM-A signalling putatively promotes tumorigenic behaviour through cis-dimerization-dependent adhesion signalling, structure-based rational design principles were utilised to design novel peptide inhibitors that selectively disrupt JAM-A cis-dimerization. In vitro testing of novel peptides across a panel of MM cell lines and primary CD138+ cells from MM patients demonstrated anti-proliferative and pro-senescence properties of the novel peptides. Moreover, candidate peptide P4 significantly inhibited the growth of CD138+ plasmacytoma-like tumours in an in vivo xenograft model involving implantation onto the chick chorioallantoic membrane. Collectively, these findings support the validity of JAM-A as an emerging druggable target and provide a strong rationale for further preclinical investigations of JAM-A inhibitors in MM.© 2026 The Author(s). European Journal of Haematology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Preterm birth remains a leading cause of neonatal morbidity and mortality. It is classified as spontaneous, characterized by the unexpected onset of labor, or medically indicated, resulting from obstetric intervention due to pregnancy complications. The mechanisms underlying each subtype are incompletely understood, and obesity further modulates preterm birth risk through unclear biological pathways. This study aims to identify second trimester maternal plasma proteomic signatures distinguishing spontaneous and medically-indicated preterm birth and to determine how body mass index modifies these profiles.In 100 pregnant individuals (30 spontaneous preterm birth, 30 medically-indicated preterm birth, 40 uncomplicated term deliveries), second trimester plasma was profiled using 7 K SomaScan v4.1 aptamer-based proteomic assay. Multivariate modeling and pathway analyses identified protein signatures distinguishing preterm birth subtypes, and computational network modeling with in silico perturbation analysis defined protein intermediates linking body mass index and preterm birth subtypes.Here we show distinct proteomic signatures among spontaneous preterm birth, medically-indicated preterm birth, and term deliveries. Supervised modeling achieves clear separation and identifies key discriminatory proteins including SIGLEC6, DHFR, UBASH3A, and PHB2. Early pregnancy body mass index substantially contributes to proteomic variance and modifies preterm birth associated expression of inflammatory (PROK2, IL36A), vascular (F11R) and oxidative stress (GLX1) proteins. Network perturbation identifies FABP4, CRP, UBE2G2, and LRP8 as critical intermediates linking body mass index and preterm birth.Distinct proteomic profiles characterize spontaneous and medically-indicated preterm birth. Body mass index emerges as a key modifier of these molecular signatures, offering insight into the obesity-associated pathways underlying preterm birth.© 2026. The Author(s).
Dendritic cell-T cell (DC-T) co-signalling pathways are central switches directing immunity, tolerance, or evasion. Despite characterisation of known pathways, additional mediators that may contribute uniquely to regulating T-cell responses remain to be defined.To identify emerging mediators of DC-T communication associated with autoimmune skin inflammation.Spatial transcriptomic data from atopic dermatitis (AD) and psoriasis (PsO) skin were integrated with single-cell RNA sequencing to resolve ligand-receptor (LR) networks operating at DC-T interaction sites, including regions of DC-T co-occupation, defined as spots simultaneously enriched for DC and T-cell transcriptional signatures. LR-based ranking was used to prioritise canonical and emerging co-signalling mediators linked to autoimmune inflammation, which were subsequently validated in independent spatial and CITE-seq datasets.Top-ranked genes F11R and CDH3 localised to the epidermis, an area enriched in highly interactive DC-T regions, and correlated with PsO severity, establishing a link between spatial communication strength and clinical outcome. Among these, F11R also associated with cytokine signalling in severe PsO, linking its spatial enrichment to enhanced inflammatory states within interaction-rich niches. CITE-seq analysis showed that F11R RNA and protein expression correlate in PsO patients, with no upregulation observed in circulating DCs or T cells. In contrast, both F11R and co-signalling molecules were elevated in the arthritic form of the disease, characterised by systemic immune activation.This study establishes a spatial framework for identifying immune communication mediators and highlight F11R as a potential target linked to autoimmune skin inflammation severity.Mapping dendritic-T cell communication in psoriasis identifies F11R as a spatially enriched signature associated with disease severity, offering insight into local immune amplification and highlighting potential targets for precision modulation of autoimmune inflammation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs), including semaglutide, produce robust and sustained weight loss, yet the central mechanisms supporting their long-term efficacy remain incompletely understood. Agouti-related peptide (AgRP) neurons of the arcuate nucleus are classically activated by negative energy balance and promote feeding and energy conservation. Based on this framework, GLP-1RAs have generally been expected to suppress or bypass AgRP neuron activity. Here, we report that AgRP neuron activation is required for the full weight-lowering effects of GLP-1RAs in female mice. Across complementary AgRP loss-of-function models, disruption of AgRP circuit integrity reduced the full weight-lowering effects of GLP-1RAs. This requirement varies with sex, diet, and mode of AgRP disruption. We found that GLP-1RA treatment is associated with increased markers of neuronal activation, mitochondrial engagement, and synaptic remodeling in AgRP neurons. We further identify a glucocorticoid-to-AgRP signaling axis as an important pathway mediating this functional recruitment of AgRP neurons. Together, these findings reveal that contrary to prevailing assumptions, GLP-1RA engages AgRP neurons to sustain weight loss, highlighting an unexpected role for these neurons in coordinating adaptive metabolic responses to pharmacologically induced negative energy balance.
The timing of diagnosis is a critical factor that significantly impacts medical treatment and patient outcomes in individuals with intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). The study primarily aimed to evaluate the diagnostic potential of four brain-specific biomarkers, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), neurofilament light chain (NfL), tau, and ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase-L1 (UCH-L1) to differentiate CT-confirmed ICH patients from healthy controls. Secondary aims included comparing results between younger (18-59 years) and older (≥60 years) ICH patients and exploring neuroendocrine hormone levels (adrenocorticotropic hormone [ACTH], agouti-related peptide [AgRP], ciliary neurotrophic factor [CNTF], and growth hormone [GH]) as potential diagnostic tools.Serum samples were collected from consecutive adult patients with CT-confirmed ICH diagnoses on days 1 (first 24 hours), 2, 3, 7, and 14 for biomarker analyses in a pilot study. A total of 71 patients and 30 healthy controls were included in the analysis.Serum concentrations of four brain-specific biomarkers demonstrated significant differentiation between ICH patients and controls at all assessed time points (Days 1, 2, 3, 7, and 14; all p<0.05), with similar significant elevations observed for NfL, tau, and UCH-L1. Day 1 GFAP levels were markedly higher in ICH patients (median 9598 pg/mL compared with healthy controls (39.2 pg/mL; p<0.05). No significant differences were found between young and aged adult ICH subgroups. Neuroendocrine ACTH and AgRP levels were significantly higher in ICH patients compared to controls on both measured time points (Days 1 and 7).The study's findings suggest that GFAP, NfL, tau, UCH-L1, ACTH, and AgRP exhibit potential as biomarkers for differentiating spontaneous ICH patients from healthy controls. However, given the limitations of the current study design, these findings should be interpreted with caution and cannot be expected to translate directly into clinical practice. Further research is needed to assess these biomarkers' roles in distinguishing stroke types and predicting ICH outcomes.© The Author(s) 2026.
Feeding behavior, which is crucial for all mammals, is regulated by a delicate equilibrium between the orexigenic and anorexigenic activities of hypothalamic neurons. This exquisite control of the neuropeptides that govern the feeding behavior could be a focal point in the pathogenesis of obesity. We reported that inactivation of C-terminal binding protein 2 (CtBP2), a transcriptional corepressor with metabolite-sensing capabilities, contributes to the pathogenesis of obesity in liver tissues and pancreatic β-cells. Here, we describe a transcriptional system regulated by CtBP2 in the hypothalamus. Our global mapping of CtBP2 binding sites using ChIP-seq combined with functional analyses revealed that CtBP2 functions as a corepressor for orexigenic neuropeptide promoters. In response to the metabolic abnormalities associated with obesity, CtBP2 undergoes allosteric inactivation and dissociates from these promoters, thereby resulting in the derepression of orexigenic neuropeptide expression. Consistently, the loss of CtBP2 in hypothalamic neurons in mice increases the expression of orexigenic neuropeptides, thus leading to increased feeding behavior. These findings highlight how obesity disrupts homeostatic mechanisms that normally maintain body weight within a healthy range.© 2026 The Author(s). The FASEB Journal published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42515672 is a review article
During pregnancy mammals increase their food intake to accommodate the elevated metabolic demands associated with fetal growth and development. However, the molecular and neural circuit mechanisms mediating increased feeding during pregnancy are largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate that arcuate nucleus agouti-related peptide (AgRP) neurons are activated and pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) neurons are inhibited during pregnancy in mice. These changes are acutely required for promoting hyperphagia during pregnancy as chemogenetic inhibition of AgRP neurons or activation of POMC neurons both reduced the feeding of pregnant mice to non-pregnant levels. Finally, we utilized single cell resolution spatial transcriptomics in the arcuate nucleus of non-pregnant and pregnant mice to characterize pregnancy-induced changes in the transcriptomic state of arcuate nucleus neurons, including significant changes in many neurons controlling energy homeostasis, including AgRP and POMC neurons. Together, these findings outline a circuit mechanism regulating increased feeding during pregnancy, providing important mechanistic insights related to conditions at the intersection of reproduction and metabolism.© 2026. The Author(s).
Glucocorticoids (GCs) are key regulators of energy homeostasis. Clinically, patients with Cushing's syndrome exhibit obesity, whereas adrenal insufficiency is associated with weight loss. However, circulating biomarkers reflecting GC action have not been established. Agouti-related protein (AgRP), an orexigenic neuropeptide, is upregulated by GC in the rodent hypothalamus. Here, we investigated whether AgRP is a surrogate marker of GC action through in vitro and in vivo experiments as well as a clinical study.The GC-dependent transcriptional regulation of AgRP was examined using reporter assays in neuronal BE(2)C cells. In animal experiments, the effects of GC on hypothalamic AgRP mRNA expression in C57BL/6J mice were examined. Circulating AgRP levels were also analyzed in nine patients with adrenal Cushing's syndrome before and after surgery.Two functional glucocorticoid-responsive elements (GREs) were identified in the human AgRP gene promoter, through which GC enhanced AgRP transcriptional activity. In mice, corticosterone (CORT) administration induced hyperphagia and increased hypothalamic AgRP mRNA levels, which positively correlated with plasma CORT levels. In patients with adrenal Cushing's syndrome, circulating AgRP levels significantly decreased after surgery (118.7 ± 40.3 vs. 37.7 ± 9.5 pg/mL, p < 0.01) and positively correlated with serum cortisol levels (r = 0.79, p < 0.01).These findings demonstrate that GC positively regulates AgRP across molecular, animal, and clinical settings, supporting the hypothesis that circulating AgRP may serve as a surrogate indicator of GC action. Further studies are warranted to establish its clinical applicability.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42439006
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42439005
An appropriate stress response is essential for properly responding to, coping with, and subsequently recovering from disturbing environmental stimuli. However, how the brain dynamically encodes the scalability of stress responses remains poorly understood. Here, we found that, GABAergic neurons in the arcuate nucleus (Arc, denoted as ArcGABA neurons) send direct inputs to corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVH, denoted as PVHCRH neurons), the primary regulators of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Although PVHCRH neurons exhibited time-locked activation in response to various environmental stressors, both GABA release onto PVHCRH neurons and the activity of PVHCRH-projecting ArcGABA neurons were selectively reduced during exposure to prolonged, high-intensity stressors, but not following exposure to transient, low-intensity stressors. Notably, GABA release onto PVHCRH neurons was positively correlated with PVHCRH-projecting ArcGABA neuron activity, yet anticorrelated with PVHCRH neuronal activity in response to the same prolonged, high-intensity stressors. Selective silencing of PVHCRH- projecting ArcGABA neurons was sufficient to elevate HPA axis activity and stress levels, phenocopying the effect of direct of PVHCRH neuron activation. Conversely, selective activation of PVHCRH-projecting ArcGABA neurons reduced both HPA axis activity and stress levels, this effect was completely abolished by concurrent excitation of PVHCRH neurons. Molecular identity screening further revealed that these PVHCRH-projecting ArcGABA neurons are not subsets expressing agouti-related peptide (AgRP) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) markers. Collectively, these findings indicate that the non-AgRP/TH ArcGABA→PVHCRH neurocircuit serves as a critical neural substrate that directly encodes the scalability of stress responses to environmental stressors by modulating inhibitory GABA release in a stimulus intensity-dependent manner.
Fasting, as a non-pharmacological intervention, elicits antidepressant-like effects. However, its neural and molecular mechanisms remain unclear. This study investigated whether intermittent fasting (IF) alleviates corticosterone (CORT)-induced depressive-like behaviors in mice and explored the underlying mechanisms. This study demonstrated that IF reversed the CORT-induced reduction in hypothalamic glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptor (GR/MR) expression in mice. In addition, IF reversed a CORT-induced decrease in arcuate nucleus (ARC) AgRP/NPY neuronal activity and NPY output from these neurons while concurrently suppressing the activity of neighboring POMC neurons. This rebalanced ARC output attenuated paraventricular nucleus (PVN) hyperactivity, as evidenced by reduced c-fos and increased NPY immunoreactivity. Remarkably, co-administration of GR and MR antagonists (RU486 and spironolactone) abolished both the behavioral benefits and hypothalamic neuropeptidergic and activity changes induced by IF. Together, these findings identify a mechanism involving GR/MR signaling through which IF alleviates depressive-like states by rescuing the functional output of AgRP/NPYARC neurons from a state of activity-output dissociation, thereby restoring HPA axis homeostasis.© 2026 The Author(s). The FASEB Journal published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Exposure to fine particulate matter (PM2.5) is associated with renal injury and chronic kidney disease (CKD) progression, yet its mechanisms remain incompletely understood. In this study, we exposed mice to urban PM2.5 at an environmentally relevant dose via the respiratory tract and combined this with renal ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) to systematically assess its effects on kidney function and structure. Meanwhile, we investigated the relevant molecular biological mechanisms underlying renal functional and structural damage mediated by the lung-kidney axis following repeated intratracheal PM2.5 exposure. The results indicated that PM2.5 exposure significantly exacerbated renal dysfunction, tubular injury, and fibrosis, accompanied by increased lipid droplet accumulation and upregulation of fibrotic markers, and adenylate cyclase 3 (ADCY3) was identified as a critical target in this pathological process. Mechanistically, PM2.5 induced systemic inflammation and elevated circulating interleukin-6 (IL-6) levels, with alveolar macrophages likely contributing as a key source. Elevated IL-6 subsequently suppressed the function of ADCY3-CREB-PGC1α signaling pathway, leading to impaired fatty acid β-oxidation (FAO), enhanced glycolysis, mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and fibrotic progression. Functional experiments further confirmed that blocking IL-6 signaling or overexpressing ADCY3 mitigated renal tubular epithelial cell injury, lipid metabolic dysregulation, and fibrotic responses mediated by PM2.5 exposure both in vivo and in vitro. In conclusion, this study offers a new insight into the intricate molecular mechanisms through which PM2.5 exposure exacerbates renal injury and CKD progression, suggesting that the IL-6/ADCY3 signaling pathway plays a crucial role in renal injury induced by PM2.5 exposure.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Endometriosis (EMS) and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) are both chronic inflammatory disorders with overlapping clinical features, suggesting a potentially shared etiology. Although epidemiological studies have reported an association between the two conditions, the genetic basis of this relationship remains poorly understood. This study is aimed at characterizing the shared genetic architecture of EMS and IBD, identify pleiotropic loci implicated in both conditions, and explore the potential causal relationships and underlying biological mechanisms.We analyzed large-scale GWAS summary statistics to investigate the genetic relationship between EMS and IBD. Linkage-disequilibrium score regression (LDSC) was used to estimate genetic correlation. The PLACO method was applied to identify pleiotropic loci, which were further evaluated by Bayesian colocalization. Functional implications were assessed using MAGMA gene-set analysis, tissue enrichment analysis, and functional annotation. Bidirectional two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) was performed to examine causal inference, accompanied by leave-one-out sensitivity analyses and statistical power calculations.A statistically significant but modest positive genetic correlation was observed between EMS and IBD (rg = 0.0957, p = 0.0042). Twenty-four genomic loci showed evidence of pleiotropic effects, and six of these carried strong evidence of a shared causal variant (posterior probability: PP.H4 > 0.7), including loci at 2p23.3 (ADCY3/DNAJC27), 4q12, 5q23.3, 7p15.2, 11q13.1 (CCDC88B), and 1q22. Functional analyses consistently implicated eight pleiotropic genes across multiple platforms: ADCY3, CCDC88B, GREB1, NOD2, RSPO3, SYNE1, THADA, and TRAIP. Pathway enrichment highlighted "positive regulation of gene expression" as a key shared mechanism (p < 0.05). Tissue-specific analyses revealed strong signals in whole blood, spleen, and colon, consistent with the immunoinflammatory etiology of both diseases. Bidirectional MR did not support a causal relationship in either direction (IBD on EMS: OR = 1.007, 95% CI: 0.986-1.028, p = 0.543; EMS on IBD: OR = 1.054, 95% CI: 0.991-1.122, p = 0.092). Leave-one-out analyses confirmed that no single variant drove these estimates, and power analysis indicated adequate power to detect moderate causal effects.The findings provide evidence for a shared, albeit modest, and genetic basis between EMS and IBD that is likely mediated through immune regulation, hormonal signaling, and tissue repair. The absence of significant causal effects in MR suggests that the observed comorbidity reflects common genetic susceptibility rather than a direct causal link. These results offer new insight into the mechanisms underlying the co-occurrence of the two conditions and may inform future investigation of shared therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2026 Xinyue Cui et al. BioMed Research International published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Depressive disorders are a leading cause of global disability, yet gene expression studies in Middle Eastern populations remain scarce. This study investigated peripheral blood expression of seven candidate genes, previously identified in animal models and early-onset depression, in adults with and without depressive disorders in United Arab Emirates (UAE).In a case-control design, 49 adults with depressive disorders (ICD-10 major depressive disorder, dysthymia, or adjustment disorder with depressed features) and 49 non-depressed controls were assessed with the Beck Depression Inventory-II and Patient Health Questionnaire-9. Peripheral blood expression of ADCY3, DGKA, FAM46A, CADM1, KIAA1539, MARCKS, and RAPH1 was measured by quantitative real-time PCR, normalised to GAPDH. Analyses included Mann-Whitney U tests, principal component analysis, fold-change estimation, pre-specified receiver operating characteristic analysis, and severity-restricted, age-balanced, and RNA-quality sensitivity analyses.CADM1 showed modest upregulation in the depressive disorder group (1.30-fold; Mann-Whitney p = 0.049, uncorrected) that did not survive multiple testing correction (Benjamini-Hochberg p = 0.178). Principal component analysis revealed an unadjusted PC2 difference (p = 0.006), driven by CADM1 and RAPH1, that attenuated after age adjustment (MANCOVA p = 0.156). CADM1 correlated negatively with depression severity (BDI-II ρ = -0.280, p = 0.005), and the signal strengthened monotonically across severity strata (moderate-severe BDI-II ≥ 20, p = 0.029; severe BDI-II ≥ 29, p = 0.014), arguing against diagnostic heterogeneity as the primary driver. However, propensity score matching on age abolished the CADM1 effect (p = 0.965). Exploratory subgroup analyses suggested sex-specific patterns (CADM1 in males, p = 0.039; KIAA1539 in females, p = 0.010). The CADM1 area under the receiver operating characteristic curve was 0.616, indicating no diagnostic utility. Post-hoc power for individual genes was 5-19%.This pilot provides the first peripheral blood gene expression data for depression in a UAE population. Given the small sample, the 13-year mean age difference between groups, and unmeasured confounders, CADM1 is best framed as a hypothesis-generating candidate only; the signal was unstable after age balancing and the discrimination performance (AUC = 0.616) is below any clinically useful threshold. Validation in larger, strictly age-matched studies is required before any clinical interpretation.Copyright © 2026 Nawaz, Al Awadhi, Al Mughairbi, Bashir, Andrade, Bokhari, Javaid and Hamid.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42436646 is a review article
Non-syndromic monogenic obesity, caused by defects in the leptin-melanocortin pathway, presents with early-onset severe obesity and hyperphagia, but genotype-phenotype and metabolic correlations across different genetic forms remain unclear.In this multicentre retrospective cohort study, individuals with biallelic (likely) pathogenic variants in LEP, LEPR, POMC, PCSK1, MC4R, ADCY3, and monoallelic (likely) pathogenic MC4R variants were recruited from 23 paediatric endocrinology centres across Türkiye. Anthropometric, clinical, metabolic data, including HOMA-IR and SPISE index, systematically applied across different monogenic obesity subtypes, were collected using a standardised case record form.A total of 130 individuals (49% female; median age 10.0 years) were included. Biallelic LEPR (n = 47) and monoallelic MC4R (n = 49) variants were the most frequent causes, followed by biallelic POMC (n = 13) and MC4R (n = 11) variants. Individuals with LEP, LEPR, and biallelic MC4R variants had higher BMI-SDS than those with POMC and monoallelic MC4R variants (p < 0.0001). SPISE index differed across groups (p = 0.0051), with lower values in biallelic LEPR and MC4R compared with monoallelic MC4R variants. Within LEPR, individuals carrying 'double homozygous' missense variants showed poorer metabolic outcomes independent of BMI-SDS (p < 0.05). POMC deficiency showed a similar phenotype to monoallelic MC4R, with later obesity onset, lower BMI-SDS, and a more favourable metabolic profile. Bone age was advanced in LEPR compared to POMC, biallelic and monoallelic MC4R variants (p = 0.013) and bone age-adjusted height-SDS was lower than non-adjusted height-SDS (p = 0.004), indicating impaired growth when adjusted for skeletal maturation.Biallelic LEPR, particularly those with double homozygous missense variants, and MC4R variants represent the most metabolically adverse forms of monogenic obesity, extending current evidence beyond BMI-based risk stratification. In LEPR, advanced bone age may contribute to impaired growth. These data provide a comprehensive genotype-phenotype characterisation in a genetically homogeneous population and emphasise the importance of early diagnosis for risk stratification.© 2026 The Author(s). Pediatric Obesity published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of World Obesity Federation.
Olfactory stimulation has emerged as a non-invasive strategy to modulate brain function; however, the molecular mechanisms linking odorant-receptor interactions to central neurobiological outcomes remain poorly defined. In this study, we investigated the antidepressant-like effects of linalyl acetate (LA) and elucidated its olfactory-driven signaling mechanisms using integrated computational, transcriptomic, and in vivo approaches. In silico analyses identified OR2B3 as a candidate olfactory receptor for LA, supported by structural similarity assessment and docking simulations. In human nasal epithelial cells, LA treatment induced coordinated transcriptional programs enriched for olfactory receptors, chemosensory cilia, GPCR signaling, and synapse-related pathways, indicating activation of receptor-guided sensory signaling networks. These findings were further supported by RT-PCR validation, which confirmed significant upregulation of OR2B3 and OR6A2, as well as modulation of cilium-associated signaling components, including ADCY3. In vivo, repeated LA inhalation significantly reduced immobility time in the tail suspension test, demonstrating antidepressant-like behavioral effects. These behavioral outcomes were accompanied by decreased serum corticosterone and pro-inflammatory cytokines, together with increased brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels in serum, cerebral cortex, and hippocampus. Neurochemical analyses further revealed enhanced monoaminergic (dopamine, noradrenaline, serotonin) and cholinergic signaling. Transcriptomic profiling of the olfactory bulb and hippocampus revealed dose-dependent enrichment of metabolic, synaptic, neurotrophin, and intracellular signaling pathways, highlighting coordinated metabolic-synaptic coupling and neuroplasticity-associated programs. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that LA engages olfactory receptors to activate cilia-centered chemosensory signaling that propagates into central metabolic, synaptic, and neurotrophic networks, ultimately modulating stress-related neurobiology. This study establishes a molecular framework for odorant-mediated neuromodulation and supports the therapeutic potential of olfactory-based interventions for mood regulation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have identified hundreds of obesity-associated SNPs, but establishing their causality remains challenging. Here, we demonstrate that rs11676272, located in the ADCY3 gene, is a functional causal variant for obesity susceptibility. Bioinformatic analyses and dual-luciferase reporter assays indicate that the rs11676272 region may act as a human-gained enhancer regulating ADCY3 expression. In HEK293T cells, CRISPR-Cas9-mediated single-nucleotide editing of rs11676272 (T > C) reduces ADCY3 expression. Moreover, the rs11676272-T allele is preferentially bound by the transcription factor E2F3 to upregulate ADCY3 expression, whereas the rs11676272-C risk allele loses this binding. In vivo, the rs11676272 T > C variant in human ADCY3 (hADCY3) knock-in mice accelerates weight gain under high-fat diet conditions and shortens primary cilia in the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH). CRISPRa-mediated activation of the hADCY3 promoter region rescues ciliary length in both the VMH and hypothalamic arcuate nucleus of Mut-hADCY3 mice. Our data reveal a causal role for rs11676272 in obesity, offering insight into potential therapeutic strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Breast cancer is a common malignant tumor with a complex pathogenesis, and while genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified multiple risk loci, they often fall short in pinpointing specific functional susceptibility genes. To address this, we collected whole-tissue eQTL data from the GTEx portal and breast cancer GWAS summary data from the Breast Cancer Association Consortium (BCAC) and FinnGen R10 database, employing transcriptome-wide association studies (TWAS) to screen and identify susceptibility genes. Subsequently, spatial transcriptomic sequencing and single-cell RNA sequencing were employed to investigate the underlying mechanisms of these genes within the tumor microenvironment (TME) and their relevance as therapeutic targets. We identified five susceptibility genes-ADCY3, CASP8, GRHL1, HELQ, and TLR1-which are enriched in tumor-related signaling pathways such as Kras and TNFα. In the breast cancer TME, these genes are associated with myofibroblasts, mast cells, and M2 macrophages, and these cells may interact via biological pathways involving macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) and secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1). Notably, TLR1 may serve as a drug target, with compounds such as Doxorubicin and Etoposide identified as potential candidates. In conclusion, ADCY3, CASP8, GRHL1, HELQ, and TLR1, as genetic susceptibility genes for breast cancer, hold significant value in understanding tumor development and advancing therapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Modern lifestyles often disturb circadian rhythms, yet the genetic circuits that convert this stress into metabolic dysfunction remain poorly defined. Here, we identify a missense variant in ADCY3 (rs11676272; Ser107Pro) as a pleiotropic regulator of circadian preference and adiposity. Using genome-wide pleiotropy analysis in ∼480,000 UK Biobank participants, we show that the G risk allele (Pro107) increases eveningness, BMI, and fat mass in European (n = 451,324) and African (n = 8,738) ancestry groups, with behavioral amplification by morning difficulty awakening in Europeans and power-limited modeling in other populations. Structural modeling and transcriptomic analysis suggest this allele alters adipose-specific splicing and expression and destabilizes ADCY3 protein. In mice, Adcy3 is rhythmically expressed in adipose tissue, with BMAL1 binding near the orthologous residue 107 site. Human adipose ADCY3 expression also increases after weight loss. Together, these findings reveal a genotype-dependent, behaviorally modifiable axis connecting difficulty awakening to metabolic risk through circadian and adipose regulatory pathways.© 2025 The Authors.
We previously showed that rats with a protein-coding mutation in Adenylate cyclase 3 (Adcy3) (Adcy3mut/mut) have increased adiposity. ADCY3 catalyzes the production of cyclic AMP (cAMP), a key secondary messenger that regulates lipolysis and thermogenesis. Here, we assessed how Adcy3mut/mut affects lipolysis, thermogenesis, and cAMP signaling. Adcy3mut/mut and wild-type (WT) males and female rats were fed a high-fat diet for 12 weeks. We measured body weight, fat mass, serum free fatty acids (FFA) during a 48-hour fast, body temperature during acute cold exposure, and triglyceride lipase gene expression after a 48-hour fast and after prolonged cold exposure. We also measured cAMP production in response to a β-3 adrenergic receptor agonist (CL 316,243) in adipose tissue ex vivo. Adcy3mut/mut rats displayed increased adiposity, decreased serum FFA, and downregulated adipose triglyceride lipase gene expression. Additionally, cAMP production was decreased in Adcy3mut/mut adipose tissue compared with WT adipose tissue in response to ex vivo stimulation with CL 316,243. Adcy3mut/mut females, but not males, showed a trend toward decreased body temperature during acute cold exposure. These findings demonstrate that a mutation in the transmembrane domain of ADCY3 results in partial loss of enzymatic function, decreasing lipolytic responsiveness and contributing to increased adiposity.
Acute lung injury (ALI) is a common respiratory disease worldwide, and obesity is a significant factor contributing to its progression. However, there is still a lack of effective clinical interventions specifically targeting this condition. This study aims to investigate the role of MGRN1 in obesity-related ALI. An obesity-related ALI mouse model was induced by a high-fat diet (HFD) and intratracheal instillation of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). An in vitro model was constructed using palmitic acid (PA) and LPS to stimulate mouse lung epithelial cells (MLE-12). Lung wet/dry weight ratio and HE staining were used to assess pathological changes in lung tissue. Cell damage was evaluated through CCK-8 and LDH release assays. Mitochondrial function was assessed via JC-1, Mito-Tracker Green, MitoSOX Red staining, and ATP content measurement. Additionally, RT-qPCR, Western blot, ELISA, immunofluorescence, and immunohistochemistry were employed to detect the expression of related genes and proteins.MGRN1 is downregulated in obesity-related ALI, and its overexpression alleviates LPS-induced lung histopathological damage in obese mice, reduces TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, ROS, and LDH levels, and inhibits PA-LPS-induced MLE-12 cell injury. Additionally, overexpression of MGRN1 restores mitochondrial function in PA-LPS-induced MLE-12 cells and suppresses PINK1/Parkin signaling pathway-mediated mitophagy. Further studies found that treatment with the PINK1 activator MTK458 attenuates the protective effect of MGRN1 overexpression on MLE-12 cells exposed to PA-LPS. MGRN1 restores mitochondrial function by inhibiting PINK1/Parkin-mediated mitophagy, thereby suppressing lung epithelial cell injury and ultimately alleviating obesity-related ALI. These findings suggest that MGRN1 may be a promising therapeutic target and that strategies aimed at restoring MGRN1 or pharmacologically restraining PINK1/Parkin-mediated mitophagy may offer a novel intervention for obese patients at risk of ALI, providing a theoretical basis for future clinical drug development.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s10616-026-01038-z.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Dysregulation of the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) promotes tumorigenesis, but population-level evidence linking UPS variants to lung cancer risk is limited.We conducted a two-stage genetic association study. In the discovery stage, using a nested case-control design, 70,801 SNPs from 750 UPS-related genes were analyzed in 612 lung cancer cases and 901 controls from the Shanghai Suburban Adult Cohort Biobank. Significant loci were validated in an independent case-control cohort consisting of 2,718 individuals. We further evaluated the predictive performance of validated SNPs and performed functional analyses, including expression quantitative trait locus, enhancer-promoter interaction, and The Cancer Genome Atlas analyses.We identified 2,527 SNPs associated with lung cancer risk in the discovery cohort, six of which were validated. Incorporating these variants significantly improved risk prediction beyond traditional risk models in both cohorts (AUCdiscovery: 0.64 vs. 0.53; AUCvalidation: 0.72 vs. 0.57; all P < 0.001). The MGRN1 rs11640681 A>G variant was associated with increased risk of lung cancer [ORdiscovery(95% CI), 1.26 (1.04-1.53), P = 0.017; ORvalidation(95% CI), 1.32(1.07-1.64), P = 0.011]. Functional analyses suggest the G allele may downregulate MGRN1 expression by enhancer-promoter interaction. Higher MGRN1 expression was present in normal lung compared with non-small cell lung cancer tissues and was associated with longer survival of patients with lung cancer.Our findings suggest UPS genetic variants contribute to lung cancer risk, with the G allele of rs11640681 potentially increasing risk by downregulating MGRN1, a potential tumor-suppressor.These findings enhance the understanding of lung cancer etiology and highlight potential biomarkers for risk stratification in a population setting.©2026 American Association for Cancer Research.
Receptor-type E3 ubiquitin ligases enable extracellular signals to control ubiquitylation in the cytoplasm, playing widespread roles in development, metabolism, and immunity. Using cryoelectron microscopy, integrated with biophysical and functional studies, we visualized a human E3 complex composed of two transmembrane proteins, MEGF8 and MOSMO, and the intracellular RING-family protein MGRN1. This MEGF8-MOSMO-MGRN1 (MMM) complex attenuates Hedgehog signaling by ubiquitylating Smoothened (SMO), a G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) that transduces morphogen signals. A long helix in the MMM complex engages SMO using an intramembrane degron and extends into the cytoplasm to suspend an activated and precisely oriented RING domain below the plasma membrane. This architecture enables ubiquitylation of the cytoplasmic surface of SMO, reducing SMO abundance at primary cilia. Our structure provides insights into MEGF8 mutations, which cause multi-organ birth defects, and defines a paradigm for how transmembrane E3 ligases control the cell surface abundance of GPCRs and other signaling receptors.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ferroptosis is one of the important mechanisms of secondary neuronal death after spinal cord injury (SCI). However, the upstream regulators that could be targeted for therapeutic intervention remain poorly defined. This study identifies gamma-glutamyl transferase 1 (GGT1) as a key driver of ferroptosis, upregulated in neurons post-SCI. Screening a 150-compound natural product library, we discovered Enocyanin (EA), which reduced GGT1 protein levels, protected neurons from hypoxic injury, and exhibited anti-ferroptotic effects. Mechanistically, EA promoted GGT1 degradation through the E3 ligase MGRN1, leading to K48-linked polyubiquitination and proteasomal clearance, halting ferroptosis. To improve EA's stability and delivery, we engineered a biomimetic nanoplatform (NSCm@EA) using neural stem cell membranes, enhancing drug accumulation at the injured spinal cord. At single-cell resolution, NSCm@EA was shown to precisely remodel neuronal subpopulations, selectively expanding γ-motor neurons and upregulating synaptic genes such as Gria2 and Negr1, while suppressing inflammatory and oxidative stress pathways. In summary, this study reveals GGT1's role in ferroptosis, identifies a natural product that induces its ubiquitin-mediated degradation, and presents a targeted biomimetic delivery strategy for precise intervention in spinal cord injury.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42089370 is a review article
Recurrent idiopathic severe fetal structural anomalies present major challenges for reproductive decision-making and genetic counselling. A non-consanguineous healthy Estonian couple had experienced two electively terminated pregnancies at 12-13 weeks' gestation due to unexplained major fetal malformations and one early miscarriage. Their three pregnancies had resulted in unaffected newborns. Exome sequencing of fetal tissues from both terminated pregnancies identified a homozygous rare missense variant in MGRN1 (mahogunin ring finger 1), c.881G>A, p.(Arg294His) (Genome Aggregation Database V.4.1.0 allele frequency<8×10⁻⁵; no homozygotes reported in any population database). MGRN1 functions as an E3 ubiquitin ligase critical for protein homeostasis and developmental signalling. The detected substitution compromises a conserved residue within the RING (Really Interesting New Gene) finger domain. Cascade testing revealed that the parents and one unaffected child were heterozygous carriers, while two healthy siblings were homozygous for the reference allele. Both affected fetuses displayed congenital malformations closely mirroring prenatal phenotypes reported in Mgrn1 homozygous mutant mice, including cardiac malformations (ventricular septal defect, outflow tract malposition, pulmonary artery hypoplasia) and abnormal left-right axis patterning. These findings provide the first evidence implicating MGRN1 in human congenital disease and support its role in early embryonic patterning.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Hypospadias is a common congenital urogenital anomaly with a multifactorial etiology. This study aims to identify rare genetic variants associated with hypospadias in a Taiwanese cohort using whole-exome sequencing (WES) and assess their correlation with clinical phenotypes and surgical outcomes.A cohort of 55 Taiwanese male patients diagnosed with hypospadias, chordee and buried penis was recruited for genetic analysis. Peripheral blood samples were collected, and DNA was extracted for WES using the Illumina NovaSeq 6000 platform. Variant annotation and filtering were performed based on minor allele frequency (MAF <0.05), ACMG classification, and CADD scores (>30). Identified variants were analyzed for genotype-phenotype associations using Fisher's exact test and logistic regression. Hedgehog (Hh) signaling pathway variants were also assessed for potential involvement in disease pathogenesis.A total of 23 rare variants were identified in 20 patients, affecting genes involved in androgen signaling, genital development, and steroidogenesis. Pathogenic variant s were detected in AR, DNAH11, SRD5A2, ZEB2, and WDR11, while SRD5A2 and POR variants were enriched in severe cases. Variants in WDR11 and HOXA11 were linked to higher surgical complication risks. Hedgehog pathway variants (MGRN1, MEGF8) were found in a subset of patients, implicating developmental signaling in hypospadias.This study highlights the genetic heterogeneity of hypospadias, chordee and buried penis in Taiwanese patients and its impact on disease severity and surgical outcomes. Future research should explore larger cohorts, functional validation, and gene-environment interactions to improve clinical management.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
BACKGROUND: Reproductive efficiency is an important component of profitability and sustainability in beef cattle production, particularly in tropical environments where animals are routinely exposed to environmental stressors. This study aimed to identify environmentally sensitive SNPs associated with sexual precocity traits in Nellore cattle and characterize candidate genes and biological pathways regulating sexual precocity under variable environmental conditions. For this purpose, three sexual precocity indicators were analyzed; one in heifers (heifer early calving probability at 30 months, HC30), and two in young males (scrotal circumference at 365 days, SC365; age at puberty, APM). Reaction norm models were integrated with genome-wide association studies (GWASs) to identify genomic regions associated with both genetic potential (intercept) and environmental sensitivity (slope). RESULTS: A total of 46 significant SNPs were identified across the three traits, with SC365 showing the highest genetic complexity (36 SNPs), followed by HC30 (7 SNPs), and APM (3 SNPs). The analyses revealed distinct genetic architectures among the traits. For HC30, candidate genes showed clear functional partitioning between those associated with baseline fertility (e.g., ERBB4, SNAI2) and those associated with environmental sensitivity (e.g., TRIB1, NSMCE2), with no overlap between intercept and slope components. In contrast, SC365 exhibited substantial genetic overlap, with five genes (i.e., GRB14, SLC9A8, SPATA2, MGRN1, SEPTIN12) significantly associated with both intercept and slope, indicating a robust trait with shared genetic control of baseline potential and environmental responsiveness. For APM, genetic associations were predominantly related to baseline potential, with genes involved in DNA repair (CHEK2), endoplasmic reticulum stress response (XBP1), and immune regulation (TNIP3). Functional enrichment analyses revealed trait-specific biological pathways, whereas QTL enrichment demonstrated biologically coherent overlaps with reproductive and metabolic traits. CONCLUSION: These findings demonstrate that sexual precocity traits exhibit distinct genetic architectures reflecting their underlying biological mechanisms and environmental responsiveness, providing valuable insights for developing climate-resilient breeding strategies in tropical beef cattle production systems.
Mahogunin ring finger 1 (MGRN1) is a membrane-tethered E3 ligase that fine-tunes signaling sensitivity by targeting surface receptors for ubiquitylation and degradation. Although MGRN1 is known to regulate the Hedgehog signaling effector Smoothened (SMO) via the transmembrane adapter multiple epidermal growth factor-like 8 (MEGF8), the broader scope of its regulatory network has been speculative. Here, we identify attractin (ATRN) and attractin-like 1 (ATRNL1) as additional transmembrane adapters that recruit MGRN1 and regulate cell surface receptor turnover. Through co-immunoprecipitation, we show that ATRN interacts with the RING domain of MGRN1. Functional assays suggest that ATRN and ATRNL1 work with MGRN1 to promote the ubiquitylation and degradation of the melanocortin receptors MC1R and MC4R, in a process analogous to its regulation of SMO. Loss of MGRN1 or ATRN leads to increased surface and ciliary localization of MC4R in fibroblasts and elevated MC1R levels in melanocytes, resulting in enhanced eumelanin production. These findings expand the known repertoire of MGRN1-regulated receptors and provide new insight into a shared mechanism by which membrane-tethered E3 ligases utilize transmembrane adapters to facilitate substrate receptor specificity.© 2025. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Receptor-type E3 ubiquitin ligases are membrane-spanning assemblies that enable extracellular signals to directly control ubiquitylation in the cytoplasm. Despite playing widespread roles in tissue patterning and homeostasis, metabolism, and immunity, their structures and mechanisms remain poorly understood. Using cryo-electron microscopy, integrated with biophysical and functional studies, we visualized an E3 complex composed of two transmembrane proteins, MEGF8 and MOSMO, and the intracellular RING-family protein MGRN1. This MEGF8-MOSMO-MGRN1 (MMM) complex regulates left-right patterning of the body axis and the development of multiple organs, partly by attenuating signaling through the Hedgehog pathway. We find that the MMM complex functions like a fishing pole: a long, flexible helix attached to a membrane platform suspends an activated and precisely oriented RING domain-like a fishhook-to ubiquitylate the cytoplasmic surfaces of target receptors. Our structure explains how mutations in MEGF8 cause multi-organ birth defects in humans and defines a paradigm for receptor regulation by ubiquitylation.
Thalamic hemorrhage is a severe subtype of intracerebral hemorrhage in which secondary neuroinflammation contributes to tissue injury and neurological deterioration. N-acetyltransferase 10 (NAT10), an RNA N4-acetylcytidine writer, has been implicated in inflammatory regulation and neurological disorders. However, inflammation-related transcriptomic changes associated with Remodelin treatment after thalamic hemorrhage remain unclear.mRNA transcriptome sequencing was performed on perilesional thalamic tissues from control, thalamic hemorrhage model, and Remodelin-treated mice. Differentially expressed genes were identified for the Model versus Control and Remodelin Intervention versus Model comparisons. Genes showing opposite directions of regulation across the two comparisons were defined as Remodelin-reversed differentially expressed genes. GeneCards-derived inflammation-related genes were converted to mouse orthologs and intersected with Remodelin-reversed genes. Protein-protein interaction analysis, Gene Ontology and KEGG enrichment analyses, gene set enrichment analysis, immune-cell signature estimation, and transcription factor/miRNA regulatory network prediction were performed. Key candidates were validated by quantitative RT-PCR.RNA-seq identified 499 differentially expressed genes in the Model versus Control comparison and 664 in the Remodelin Intervention versus Model comparison. Among 46 shared differentially expressed genes, 42 showed opposite-direction regulation. Ortholog-corrected screening identified 9 Remodelin-reversed inflammation-related candidates: Cxcl1, Ccl2, Ncf4, Ptx3, Pomc, Masp2, Tnfrsf8, Card9, and Gpr84. Enrichment analyses linked these genes mainly to leukocyte- and neutrophil-mediated immunity, tumor necrosis factor production, cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, IL-17 signaling, TNF signaling, chemokine signaling, and NOD-like receptor signaling. Protein-protein interaction analysis highlighted Ccl2, Cxcl1, and Pomc as prominent candidate nodes. qRT-PCR using independent biological samples provided preliminary transcript-level support for Remodelin-associated changes in Cxcl1 and Pomc expression, whereas Ccl2 was increased after hemorrhage but was not significantly reduced by Remodelin.This study identifies Remodelin-reversed inflammation-related transcriptomic signatures in experimental thalamic hemorrhage. Cxcl1 and Pomc represent the most consistently supported Remodelin-responsive transcriptomic candidates, whereas Ccl2 appears to be a hemorrhage-associated inflammatory hub without robust reversal at the examined time point. These findings provide an exploratory neurogenomic framework for investigating inflammation-related transcriptional remodeling associated with Remodelin treatment.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Li, Xiao, Gao and Huang.
Bisphenol A (BPA), as a typical endocrine-disrupting chemical, can mimic estrogenic activity and destroy endocrine homeostasis, thus posing severe threats to human health. Meanwhile, its environmental persistence and bioaccumulation highlight the urgent demand for highly sensitive, rapid, and reliable detection techniques toward trace BPA in complicated matrices. Electrochemical sensing is highly attractive for BPA detection owing to its fast response, portability, and easy operation. However, conventional electrochemical strategies still suffer from insufficient sensitivity, poor selectivity, and limited stability, restricting their practical application in real-sample monitoring. Herein, we rationally design and synthesize a novel composite material JUC-62@pOMC via a one-step solvothermal method, combining the copper-based metal-organic framework JUC-62 with ordered mesoporous carbon (pOMC). The JUC-62@pOMC hybrid exhibits outstanding electrocatalytic activity toward BPA oxidation, showing two linear ranges of 0.05-5 μM and 5-190 μM with an ultralow detection limit of 5.6 nM. Combined with electrochemical measurements and density functional theory (DFT) calculations, the electrocatalytic mechanism of BPA is further revealed, verifying that the Cu2+ sites in JUC-62 act as active electron acceptors to promote efficient oxidation of BPA. This work not only promotes the practical application of MOF-based electrochemical sensors but also provides theoretical guidance for designing high-performance electrocatalysts for phenolic pollutant detection.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42499770 is a review article
This preliminary study aimed to investigate whether passive oscillatory body motion (PBM), a mechanical stimulus that reproduces vertical accelerations comparable to those generated during treadmill running, could activate the β-endorphin (β-END)-related hypothalamus-periaqueductal gray (PAG) pathway and alleviate fracture-induced pain.A murine fracture model was established in C57BL/6J mice by inducing a left tibial fracture followed by 3 weeks of immobilization. Mice were randomly divided into a PBM group and a control group, and PBM was initiated the day after fracture (±5 mm amplitude, 2 Hz, 30 min/day, 5 days/week, for 3 weeks). To measure pain thresholds, paw withdrawal thresholds were measured in an unblinded manner using the von Frey filament test. β-END immunoreactivity and opioid receptor mu 1 (Oprm1) mRNA in the PAG, as well as pro-opiomelanocortin (Pomc) mRNA expression in the hypothalamus, were analyzed by immunofluorescence and qPCR, respectively.PBM significantly increased the paw withdrawal threshold ratio (p < 0.001) and β-END immunoreactivity (p = 0.02) in the PAG. Moreover, as an exploratory observation, Pomc mRNA expression tended to increase in the PBM group (p = 0.07), whereas Oprm1 mRNA expression did not differ between the two groups (p = 0.69).This preliminary study provides initial evidence that PBM may attenuate fracture-induced pain-related behaviors and increase β-END immunoreactivity in the PAG, possibly via the hypothalamus-PAG pathway. PBM may represent a potential exercise-mimetic approach for pain relief, although further studies are needed to confirm its efficacy and underlying mechanisms.© 2026 The Author(s). Brain and Behavior published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The hypothalamic radial-glia-like tanycyte population plays important and intertwined roles in metabolism, reproduction, and seasonality. Although these processes are circadian-regulated, the role of the molecular clock in tanycytes themselves has not yet been examined. We report that clock genes cycle with much higher amplitude in ventral tanycytes compared to more dorsal ependymocytes and that adult, tanycyte-specific knockout of core clock gene Bmal1 reduces diet-associated weight gain and fat mass in female mice. Fate mapping studies show that female mice have higher baseline tanycyte-derived neurogenesis than males, with many of the resulting neurons localizing to the feeding-relevant arcuate nucleus. Female but not male mice show reduced tanycyte-derived arcuate neurogenesis after adult Bmal1 deletion, with an increased proportion of newborn neurons acquiring a feeding-suppressing POMC neuropeptidergic fate. Together, our data support a role for tanycyte BMAL1 as a sex-specific regulator of body composition and hypothalamic adult neurogenesis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42431566 is a review article
Lumbar intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD) is characterized by abnormal innervation and neurogenic inflammation, contributing to chronic discogenic pain. Electroacupuncture (EA) alleviates IVDD-related pain, yet its underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to investigate the role of the axonal guidance factor Netrin-1 in EA-mediated inhibition of myelinated nerve fiber ingrowth into degenerative intervertebral discs and to elucidate the downstream signaling pathways involved.A rabbit axial compression IVDD model was established. Animals were divided into sham, model, EA, model+OV-Netrin-1, EA+sh-Netrin-1, EA+μ-opioid antagonist (β-FNA), and EA+δ-opioid antagonist (NTI) groups. Tarlov scoring, MRI, HE, AB-PAS, immunohistochemistry, TEM, Western blot, RT-qPCR, Co-IP, ELISA and flow cytometry were used to evaluate disc histology, nerve ingrowth, Netrin-1 expression in annulus fibrosus (AF) and dorsal root ganglion (DRG), endogenous opioid peptides, receptor interactions, cAMP/cGMP levels and intracellular calcium concentration.EA improved Tarlov scores, restored disc structure and reduced pathological nerve ingrowth in degenerative discs. EA downregulated Netrin-1 in AF but upregulated Netrin-1 in L2 DRG. DRG Netrin-1 overexpression mimicked EA's anti-neoinnervation effect, whereas Netrin-1 knockdown abolished EA efficacy. EA elevated spinal POMC/M-ENK; blocking μ/δ opioid receptors reversed EA-mediated Netrin-1 upregulation in DRG. Mechanistically, EA promoted UNC5B-DCC complex formation, reduced cAMP, increased cGMP and lowered intracellular Ca2+ via Netrin-1 receptors to inhibit myelinated axon sprouting.EA upregulates DRG Netrin-1 by activating endogenous opioid peptide signaling. Netrin-1 subsequently modulates UNC5B/DCC downstream cAMP-cGMP-calcium pathways to suppress abnormal myelinated nerve fiber ingrowth, thereby alleviating discogenic pain and delaying IVDD progression.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565911 is a review article
The melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) is a G protein-coupled receptor that regulates energy homeostasis. Pathogenic MC4R variants represent the most common cause of monogenic obesity and are frequently associated with increased linear growth. However, the mechanisms linking MC4R signaling to somatic growth remain incompletely understood. We report a child with severe growth hormone deficiency (GHD) carrying a heterozygous MC4R variant (c.496G>A; p.V166I), in whom recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) therapy triggered an unexpectedly exaggerated clinical and biochemical response, suggesting a potential pharmacogenetic interaction between MC4R signaling and the GH/IGF-1 axis.The male patient was first evaluated at 1 month of age due to micropenis and diagnosed with multiple pituitary hormone deficiencies. At 57 months of age, his height was 97.3 cm (-2.56 SDS) and annual growth velocity was 4.1 cm/year (<-2 SDS); rhGH (somatropin) therapy was initiated. Despite severe biochemically confirmed GHD, rhGH at 0.03 mg/kg/day triggered an exaggerated response: IGF-1 levels increased from -3.35 SDS to +8.00 SDS. Concurrently, his height velocity accelerated to 16 cm/year, and his bone age rapidly advanced by approximately 4 years over a 23-month period, culminating in mandibular prognathism.The coexistence of severe GHD and an MC4R variant is rarely described, and such a pronounced response to rhGH has not previously been reported. These findings suggest that MC4R p.V166I may modulate peripheral GH/IGF-1 signaling and act as a pharmacogenetic modifier of GH responsiveness. Careful rhGH dose titration with close IGF-1 monitoring may be considered in patients carrying the MC4R p.V166I variant.© 2026 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.
Emotional eating and alcohol consumption are complex and multifactorial behaviors which are influenced by biological and psychological factors. Genetic predisposition to eating- and alcohol-related behaviors has previously been derived from broad, self-reported phenotypes. However, the association between such genetic predisposition and more refined measures based on validated questionnaires and clinical assessment of pre-diagnostic symptoms remains unclear. We examined whether two broad, nonspecific polygenic risk scores for poor appetite or overeating (PAO-PGS) and alcohol use (AU-PGS) are associated with emotional eating and habitual alcohol consumption. The study included 1,252 adults with overweight or obesity from the ONTIME study. We used two different questionnaires (the Emotional-Eating Questionnaire, EEQ and the Eating-related Behaviors and Emotions questionnaire) and 24h recall for alcohol consumption. Higher PAO-PGS and AU-PGS were associated with greater emotional eating (β =0.41, p=0.025) and greater risky alcohol consumption (OR=1.22, p=0.044), respectively. Further subcomponents of the EEQ such as greater disinhibition and food craving were also associated with higher PAO-PGS. Interestingly, the "eating-related behaviors and emotions score" was associated with genetic predisposition to alcohol use. In addition, minor allele carriers of specific genetic variants (FTO, MC4R, DRD2, and CTNNA2) were associated with specific characteristics of emotional eating and alcohol risk. These results provide novel evidence that polygenic scores for poor appetite or overeating and alcohol use are associated with emotion-driven eating and habitual alcohol consumption. Exploratory results point to CTNNA2 as a new candidate gene for food craving. Integrating genetic profiles into behavioral nutrition research may help identify individuals with higher vulnerability to maladaptive eating and drinking patterns. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: clinicaltrials.gov: NCT02829619.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Although anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG) is commonly used as prophylaxis against graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) following allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (alloSCT), there is considerable inter-patient variability in ATG exposure. The impact of ATG exposure in outcomes following reduced intensity conditioning (RIC)-alloSCT remains unknown. We explored the impact of post-transplant ATG exposure (PT-ATG-exp) in 68 adults with haematological malignancies undertaking first RIC-alloSCT with ATG (Thymoglobulin, total dose 4.5mg/kg, day -3 to -1 alloSCT). Post-transplant ATG exposure was determined by area under the curve (AUC) through analysis of sera collected at standardised timepoints. Post-transplant ATG exposure range was highly variable [46-420 arbitrary units (AU) per day/mL]. Day 0 ATG concentration and day 0-14 ATG AUC highly correlated with PT-ATG-exp (R = 0.93 and 0.99, respectively, P < 0.001). Using a Cox proportional hazards model, patients with PT-ATG-exp between 80-135 AU per day/mL had inferior 2-year GRFS compared to the remainder of the cohort [25% (95% CI, 11%-56%) vs 54% (95% CI, 40%-73%), P = 0.02; HR 2.01 (95% CI, 1.04-3.86, P = 0.04] due to higher incidence of grade III-IV acute GVHD [33% (95% CI, 16%-51%) vs 12% (95% CI, 4%-24%), P = 0.034; HR 2.95 (95% CI, 0.99-8.83, P = 0.05)]. Recipients with the highest PT-ATG-exp (quartile 4: 185-420 AU per ml/day) had the lowest incidence of grade III-IV acute GVHD (0% at 180-days) but also lowest median CD3+ chimerism (85%) and highest incidence of mixed donor chimerism (CD3+: 93% and CD3-: 33%) at day 100. In this analysis, PT-ATG-exp influenced post-transplant outcomes including GVHD incidence and donor chimerism following in RIC-alloSCT.Copyright © 2026 Koo, Davis, Ludford-Menting, Wong, Koldej and Ritchie.
This study aimed to investigate the associations between performance-based outcomes (walking, sit-to-stand, and stair climbing) and impairment-level measures one year after primary unilateral total knee arthroplasty (TKA) using an analytic framework that mitigates multicollinearity.Prospectively collected data were analyzed in a cross-sectional design. We included 142 patients who underwent primary unilateral TKA. The performance-based outcomes one year postoperatively were the 40 m fast-paced walk test (FPWT), 30 s chair stand test (CST), and 11-step stair-climbing test (SCT). Explanatory variables included age, sex, BMI, one-year postoperative muscle strength (bilateral quadriceps and hamstring strength), pain visual analogue scale (VAS) score, and knee flexion range of motion (ROM; SCT model only). We performed multivariate analyses using multiple linear regression and additionally applied ridge regression to mitigate multicollinearity. Relative importance was quantified using the Lindeman-Merenda-Gold (LMG) method.For the FPWT, the primary determinants were bilateral quadriceps strength, contralateral hamstring strength, and age, while sex and pain VAS scores were lower-importance contributors. For CST, bilateral quadriceps strength, age, and contralateral hamstring strength were the primary determinants, with BMI contributing secondarily. For SCT, contralateral quadriceps strength and age were the main determinants, whereas pain VAS score and knee flexion ROM were additional, lower-importance contributors.One year after TKA, bilateral quadriceps strength played a central role across all tasks. Walking and sit-to-stand performances were additionally associated with contralateral hamstring strength and age, whereas stair performance was influenced by pain control and adequate knee flexion ROM. These findings support personalized rehabilitation strategies that prioritize bilateral quadriceps strengthening and layer-task-specific requirements.© 2026 Saiki et al.
Synthetic CT (sCT) generation from cone-beam CT (CBCT) has emerged as a promising enabler for adaptive radiotherapy. While deep learning (DL) methods have demonstrated substantial improvements in image quality, their impact on proton beam therapy (PBT) dose calculation remains unclear, particularly for CBCT acquired on proton gantries, which are prone to increased artifacts and noise.&#xD;Approach: In this study, we evaluated sCT generation from proton gantry CBCT using a denoising diffusion probabilistic model (DDPM) and a cycle-consistent generative adversarial network (cycleGAN), and compared them against non-learning-based correction methods (corrected CBCT and virtual CT) implemented in a commercial treatment planning system. Image quality (mean absolute error, peak signal-to-noise ratio, normalized cross-correlation) and dosimetric accuracy (gamma passing rate, dose-volume histogram metrics) were assessed in head-and-neck (H&N) and lung cohorts using clinically approved PBT plans.&#xD;Main Results: All methods improved image quality compared to CBCT, with vCT achieving the best quantitative metrics (mean H&N MAE=36.3HU; lung MAE=39.9HU).However, image quality metrics did not correlate with dosimetric accuracy. In H&N cases, corrCBCT demonstrated inferior image metrics (MAE=52.7HU) but achieved mean GPR of 98.4%, comparable to vCT and superior to DL-based methods. In lung cases, DDPM-generated sCTs achieved the highest mean GPR of 93.6% despite not having the best image metrics (MAE=41.1HU). Dosimetric accuracy was highly sensitive to anatomical and Hounsfield Unit (HU) fidelity along beam paths, with beam angle significantly affecting GPR. DL-based methods effectively reduced artifacts but occasionally introduced anatomically inconsistent features that impacted dose calculation.&#xD;Significance: Improvements in conventional image quality metrics did not necessarily translate to improved dosimetric accuracy in PBT. Instead, accurate anatomical representation and HU fidelity along beam paths were critical determinants of dose agreement. These findings highlighted the limitations of global image-based evaluation alone and underscored the need for dosimetric validation frameworks for sCT commissioning in PBT.Creative Commons Attribution license.
The rapid proliferation of artificial intelligence (AI) tools in higher education has transformed the landscape of foreign language instruction, yet the mechanisms through which AI tool use shapes learners' affective and communicative engagement remain poorly understood. Drawing on social cognitive theory (SCT) and control-value theory (CVT), this study proposes and tests a moderated serial mediation model in which AI tool use predicts willingness to communicate (WTC) sequentially through AI self-efficacy and foreign language enjoyment (FLE), with foreign language anxiety (FLA) moderating the FLE-to-WTC link.Survey data were collected from 420 EFL undergraduates at two Chinese universities (Zhejiang and Shaanxi Provinces). Covariance-based structural equation modeling (CBSEM) with maximum likelihood robust (MLR) estimation in Mplus 8.8 was used.The model revealed excellent fit. AI tool use significantly predicted AI self-efficacy (β = 0.42, p < 0.001), which predicted FLE (β = 0.38, p < 0.001) and WTC directly (β = 0.21, p = 0.001); FLE predicted WTC (β = 0.33, p < 0.001). Bootstrapped mediation analyses (10,000 replications) confirmed a simple indirect effect via self-efficacy [β = 0.091, 95% CI (0.042, 0.152)] and a serial indirect effect via self-efficacy and enjoyment [β = 0.053, 95% CI (0.021, 0.098)]. FLA moderated the FLE-to-WTC pathway (β = -0.19, p = 0.002), and the index of moderated mediation was significant [IMM = -0.017, 95% CI (-0.038, -0.004)].These findings advance theoretical understanding of how AI tools cultivate positive affective trajectories and carry implications for emotionally responsive EFL pedagogy.Copyright © 2026 Xu, Wang and Feng.
The objective of this study was to investigate the clinical features and genetic variation of a patient with monogenic nonsyndromic obesity caused by melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4R) gene variation. Additionally, this study aims to provide a reference for the diagnosis of the disease.A monogenic non syndromic obese patient who was admitted to Dongying People's Hospital in December 2024 was enrolled in the study. The clinical data and peripheral blood samples of the patient were collected. Whole-exome sequencing was utilized to identify gene variants. Subsequently, bioinformatic analysis was performed on the candidate variants detected in the patient. The pathogenicity of the variant was evaluated in accordance with the Standards and Guidelines for the Classification of Genetic Variants, which were formulated by the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG). A comprehensive database was meticulously curated to encompass all previously documented monogenic non syndromic cases. A retrospective analysis was then conducted to systematically summarize the phenotypic and pathogenic variation spectrum of the MC4R gene. A comprehensive review of the extant literature on cellular and molecular genetics was conducted, with the objective of elucidating the discrepancies between the mutation location of the MC4R gene and its clinical phenotype.The results of the patient's case reveal that the subject is a 10-year-2-month-old female who exhibits the clinical manifestations of severe obesity, hyperinsulinemia, and accelerated puberty development. Whole-exome sequencing revealed a missense mutation c.185A > G (p.Asn62Ser) in the MC4R gene. According to the ACMG guidelines, the variant was designated as pathogenic (PM2_Supporting + PM3_Supporting + PS4_Supporting + PS3_Moderate + PP1_Strong + PP3_Supporting). A comprehensive literature search yielded a total of 64 children with obesity caused by MC4R mutation. Regardless of the location of the mutation, whether in the transmembrane region or the topological region, no statistically significant differences were observed in age (months), gender, BMI, BMISDS, acanthosis nigricans, hyperinsulin, hyperappetite, and underlying diseases between the two groups. Interaction analysis revealed a significant modification effect of underlying disease status on the association between mutation location and BMI (P for interaction = 0.002-0.069). Among children without underlying diseases, topological region mutations were associated with higher BMI (β = 8.52, 95% CI: -3.20-20.24), whereas among those with underlying diseases, the effect was reversed (β = -9.73, 95% CI: -21.42-1.96), indicating opposite directions of effect across subgroups.The present study has demonstrated that MC4R gene missense variants are among the most prevalent genetic factors contributing to monogenic nonsyndromic obesity. For children with early-onset severe obesity, accelerated puberty, and hyperinsulinemia, the consideration of monogenic nonsyndromic obesity is imperative, and genetic testing should be utilized to confirm the diagnosis expeditiously. In the context of pediatric obese patients with underlying diseases, the effect of different mutation positions on BMI varies. These findings also expand the spectrum of MC4R variants.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Genetics & Genomic Medicine published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) provides superior soft tissue contrast compared with CT and is essential for delineation of targets and organs at risk in brain radiotherapy. Because CT is traditionally required for dose calculation in radiation therapy, synthetic CT (sCT) generation from MRI has enabled the development of MR-only workflows. Prior studies have primarily focused on dosimetric equivalence between CT- and sCT-based treatment plans, with limited emphasis on practical implementation challenges encountered during clinical use.This study aimed to share clinical experience implementing an MR-only brain radiotherapy workflow, with a focus on practical challenges encountered.Twenty-eight patients underwent a dedicated MR simulation protocol for sCT generation in addition to standard-of-care planning CT simulation. MRI acquisition was performed using an immobilization mask with a dedicated head coil positioned over the mask. The sCT protocol consisted of four sequences: T1 VIBE Dixon, T2 SPACE, PETRA, and TOF-MRA. Clinical treatment plans generated using the planning CT (pCT) for photon therapy were recalculated on the corresponding sCT datasets.Twenty-eight patients were scanned, and 25 synthetic CT datasets were successfully generated. Nine sCT datasets required rigid re-registration because of inter-sequence patient motion. Findings were categorized into workflow-related sCT challenges, including inter-sequence motion, suboptimal coil placement, and external localization marker interference, and algorithm-related imaging artifacts, including HU misclassification at tissue/bone/air interfaces and sCT degradation in post-operative anatomy with surgical meshes.Clinical implementation of a brain MR-only workflow identified two major categories of challenge: workflow-related sCT perturbations and algorithm-related imaging artifacts. This distinction has important implications for mitigation strategies. Case-specific sCT review, structured eligibility screening, and prospective site commissioning are essential for safe clinical deployment. Practical commissioning and per-patient QA checklists are provided as supplementary materials.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Applied Clinical Medical Physics published by Wiley Periodicals, LLC on behalf of The American Association of Physicists in Medicine.
Phthalate esters are pervasive endocrine-disrupting chemicals associated with metabolic disorders, but their contribution to metabolic-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) remains unclear. We investigated shared targets and pathways linking eight phthalate-related compounds to MAFLD using network toxicology, transcriptomic data mining, molecular docking, and cellular validation. Integrated analysis identified 75 predicted phthalate-related targets, including 41 MAFLD-associated genes enriched in lipid metabolism and inflammatory pathways. Cross-analysis of three GEO datasets prioritized 14 candidate genes, with PPARG, PTGS2, ESR1, PPARA, and BCL2 showing high network centrality. Molecular docking predicted favorable interactions between the tested compounds and candidate proteins, with monobenzyl phthalate (MBeP) showing the highest predicted affinity. In palmitic acid-oleic acid (PA-OA) -treated HepG2 cells, MBeP increased lipid accumulation, reactive oxygen species generation, apoptosis, and mitochondrial membrane depolarization and altered selected candidate genes. In primary mouse hepatocytes, MBeP similarly increased lipid accumulation and reactive oxygen species generation and altered PTGS2 and PPARA protein expression. These findings identify candidate targets and pathways potentially involved in MBeP-associated hepatic lipid dysregulation and support further mechanistic investigation of phthalate-related effects in MAFLD.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Acromelic dysplasias, including acromicric dysplasia (AD) and geleophysic dysplasia type 2 (GD2), are ultrarare disorders caused by FBN1 variants in the transforming growth factor-β-binding protein-like domain 5 (TB5). These conditions are characterized by severe short stature and variable multisystem involvement, but genotype-phenotype correlations and treatment responses remain incompletely defined.To characterize the clinical spectrum, genotype-phenotype correlations, and growth outcomes in a Chinese cohort of patients with FBN1-related AD/GD2.We conducted a retrospective analysis of 14 patients with AD or GD2 from eight unrelated families. Clinical, radiographic, and genetic data were collected. Genotype-phenotype correlations were further explored by integrating data from two previously published cohorts (n = 52). Growth outcomes were evaluated in patients receiving recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) therapy.All patients exhibited severe short stature (mean height-SDS of -5.28 ± 1.13) with brachydactyly and delayed bone age. Multisystem involvement, including skeletal abnormalities, airway and otologic complications, skin thickening, joint limitation, hepatomegaly, and cardiopulmonary disease (50.0%, exclusively on GD2), was common. All the variants were heterozygous missense mutations clustered in the TB5 domain, including two novel de novo variants. Genotype-phenotype preliminary analysis revealed a greater mortality in patients with GD2 than in patients with AD (29.6%(15.9 -48.5%) vs. 4.0%(0.7-19.5%), P = 0.038). Variants with cysteine or aromatic residues substitutions were associated with increased mortality compared with that associated with other substitutions (overall P < 0.001). Eleven patients received growth-promoting therapy. Among the eight patients treated at our center, growth-promoting therapy maintained a growth velocity during the first two years (approximately 6 cm/year) but declined thereafter, with no significant improvement in height-SDS over a mean treatment duration of 3.6 years.FBN1-related AD/GD2 represent multisystem disorders rather than isolated skeletal dysplasias. Variants affecting cysteine or aromatic residues in the TB5 domain maybe associated with worse outcomes. Growth-promoting therapy may contribute to maintaince of growth velocity but catch-up growth was not clearly observed. These findings suggest that molecular stratification may be helpful for risk assessment and clinical decision-making, pending further validation.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Huang, Wang, Lin, Zheng, Xiao, Ma, Guo, Chen and Li.
Approximately 8% of the US population speaks primary languages other than English. Limited English proficiency (LEP) contributes to under-representation of Hispanic patients in oncology clinical trials. Although certified translation services exist, they are time-consuming and costly. Artificial intelligence (AI)-generated translations of informed consent forms (ICFs) could provide low-cost alternatives, but data on accuracy and safety remain limited. We evaluated language equivalence of English-to-Spanish translations for three oncology clinical trial ICFs using two general-purpose AI translation tools (DeepL Pro and ChatGPT-4o) and a medically trained AI translation tool (Med_English2Spanish) compared with certified translations.Translational equivalence was assessed using a five-point Likert scale on five domains: Semantic, Idiomatic, Experiential, Conceptual, and Safety. Two native Spanish-speaking bilingual board-certified physicians independently scored each translation. Weighted Cohen's kappa determined inter-rater reliability, and the two-sample t-test compared AI-generated and certified translations.Weighted Cohen's kappa (0.95, 95% CI 0.85 to 0.97) exhibited high inter-rater agreement. Certified translations exhibited the highest equivalence (mean = 4.99, SD = 0.02). ChatGPT-4o similarly demonstrated high equivalence (mean = 4.89, SD = 0.17). DeepL Pro scored well (mean = 4.43, SD = 0.07) but lower than certified translation (P < 0.001). Med_English2Spanish demonstrated the lowest degree of equivalence (mean = 3.32, SD = 0.40) compared with certified translations (P < 0.001).Low-cost AI translations of ICFs exhibited variable language equivalence compared with certified translations across several domains. ChatGPT-4o scored nearly equivalent across domains in translating procedural trial information. While AI-generated translations are currently not suitable for clinical deployment without human review, this exploratory study supports further analysis of AI translation tools for reducing language barriers to LEP population enrollment.
Ovine species inhabiting harsh environments frequently develop enhanced functional adaptations. This study aims to (1) characterize rumen epithelial modifications in lactating Hulunbeier ewes under alpine conditions, and (2) elucidate how these adaptive responses are modulated by micronutrient supplementation and varying concentrate feed levels. Thirty lactating Hulunbeier ewes were randomly assigned to one of the three dietary groups and fed the same roughages with one of the following concentrates: 1) 550 g/d of local concentrate (LF) as the control, 2) 550 g/d of formulated concentrate (FF), and 3) 700 g/d of formulated concentrate (FS). Daily feed intake were recorded, and rumen epithelial tissues were collected for transcriptome analysis after slaughter on day 37 of the experiment. Transcriptomic analyses were performed on a subset of 11 ewes (LF, n = 4; FF, n = 4; FS, n = 3). No independent qPCR validation was conducted; results are therefore preliminary. In the exploratory cross-breed comparison, Hulunbeier sheep showed a suggestive trend toward enhanced expression of energy metabolism genes (ATP5MC2, ATP5PO, UQCRH) and genes encoding mitochondrial respiratory chain components relative to lowland Hu sheep. Supplementation with micronutrient premix upregulated key detoxification genes (CYP1A1, LOC101119706) and modulated immune-related pathways. In contrast, high concentrate levels promoted biosynthetic processes while suppressing cellular signaling functions. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis further indicated activation of thermogenesis pathways in the high-concentrate group, accompanied by altered expression of electron transport chain genes. PPARA may be involved in volatile fatty acid metabolism in response to micronutrient supplementation, but this requires direct experimental testing. Collectively, with the caveat of small sample size and lack of qPCR validation, these pilot-scale transcriptomic findings generate hypotheses that may underlie nutritional modulation of rumen function in alpine-adapted sheep; however, further validation with larger sample sizes and correlated phenotypic measurements is warranted. These results provide preliminary insights for developing targeted nutritional strategies to enhance ruminant production in breeds adapted to extreme environments.© 2026. The Author(s).
More than 95% of trauma patients survive their initial injury, and up to 50% experience persistent physical and psychosocial challenges that extend well beyond hospital discharge. Socially vulnerable patients, including those with limited social support, limited English proficiency (LEP), substance use disorders (SUD), and exposure to interpersonal violence, face these challenges disproportionately. While trauma collaborative care models (Trauma CCM) may address these gaps, how such models are experienced by providers and patients during the early implementation remains poorly understood.To examine stakeholders' experiences during the early implementation phase of what is, to our knowledge, the first trauma collaborative care model in New England designed specifically for socially vulnerable trauma survivors.We conducted a qualitative study informed by the Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research (CFIR) of the early implementation of the Transforming Recovery After Injury for the Long-term (TRAIL) Clinic at a single Level I trauma center. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with 23 stakeholders, including 15 patients, 6 clinic staff members, and 2 community partners.We identified four interrelated themes: (1) Patients reported feeling seen and heard; (2) Engagement was facilitated through provider adaptation to patient needs; (3) Patients expressed a need for sustained, trauma-informed mental health support extending beyond short-term clinic engagement; and (4) Logistical and emotional challenges were identified during early implementation of the Trauma CCM.Trauma CCM reframes post-injury recovery by addressing needs beyond surgical care. Experiences from stakeholders during early implementation emphasized flexible engagement strategies, integrated longitudinal trauma-informed mental health services, and institutional support for the trauma care workforce.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Athletes pursuing a professional basketball career are routinely evaluated by sports physicians using laboratory testing, electrocardiography, and exercise stress assessment. However, such screening may not detect certain cardiovascular or connective tissue disorders. This limitation is particularly relevant in basketball, where tall stature is advantageous but may also signal underlying conditions such as cardiomyopathies, which can predispose athletes to life-threatening events during intense physical exertion, including sudden cardiac death. This study aimed to investigate the phenotypic, endocrine, cardiac, and genetic characteristics of adolescent basketball players to identify possible causes of tall stature and associated health risks.We examined 55 youth basketball players (30 females, median age 17 years and height +2.4 standard deviations). Each underwent detailed endocrine and anthropometric examinations, echocardiography, and genetic testing (number of X and Y chromosomes, SHOX gene dosage analysis, and a custom next-generation sequencing panel of 786 genes related to growth).Echocardiographic abnormalities were observed in 4/55 (7%) athletes, while an additional 5/55 (9%) probands displayed echocardiographic findings resembling physiological adaptation to extensive physical activities. Clinically relevant dysmorphic features were identified in 26/55 (47%), and mild dysmorphia was present in 21/55 (38%) participants. No endocrine dysfunctions were detected. One proband (1.8%) was diagnosed with a monogenic cause of tall stature carrying a pathogenic variant in the FBN1 gene, causing Marfan syndrome.Echocardiographic abnormalities were observed in a small proportion of probands, as were monogenic causes of tall stature. However, targeted evaluation, including echocardiography, anthropometry, and genetic testing, should be considered in selected individuals.Copyright © 2026 Gregorova, Plachy, Chaloupecky, Iurchenko, Maliska Maratova, Kodytkova, Matoulek, Lebl, Tomek, Sumnik, Dusatkova and Pruhova.
BACKGROUND Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) and Marfan syndrome (MFS) are genetically determined systemic disorders. Their simultaneous occurrence is exceptionally rare, with only a few cases reported in the literature. CASE REPORT A 13-year-old boy was admitted to a cardiology clinic due to mitral and tricuspid valve prolapse. He was tall, with severe scoliosis and distinctive dysmorphic features typical of MFS. More than 20 cafe-au-lait spots, characteristic of NF1, were present on his skin. The family history included NF1 in his twin brother, mother, maternal uncle, and maternal grandmother. The maternal uncle also exhibited phenotypic features of MFS and died at a young age from a suspected ruptured intracranial aneurysm. Genetic testing in our patient revealed an NF1 mutation, as well as a 16p13.11 microduplication that could explain his developmental delay and speech difficulties. The diagnosis of MFS was based on characteristic dysmorphic features and the presence of aortic root dilation, despite negative findings concerning the fibrillin-1 (FBN1) mutation typically associated with MFS. CONCLUSIONS A thorough assessment of physical features is essential to detect atypical phenotypes and recognize potential coexistence of multiple genetic syndromes. This case highlights the clinical importance of systematic cardiac evaluation, given that cardiac abnormalities typical of MFS may be critical for its recognition. Reporting such an unusual coexistence of NF1 and MFS underscores the need for multidisciplinary care to improve long-term outcomes in patients with overlapping genetic disorders.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42539866 is a review article
Glucocorticoids remain an important anti-inflammatory therapy for IgA nephropathy but are associated with substantial treatment-related adverse effects, highlighting the urgent need for early prediction of treatment efficacy. We hypothesized that randomized controlled trial-based serum proteomic profiling could delineate glucocorticoid-modulated proteins and more accurately stratify patients likely to benefit from glucocorticoid therapy.We performed proteomic analyses of samples from the TESTING trial, in which patients with IgA nephropathy were randomized to receive methylprednisolone or placebo. 479 longitudinal serum samples from 241 Chinese participants collected at baseline and at 6 and 12 months were analyzed. Linear mixed effect models were used to identify glucocorticoid-modulated proteins and pathways in the methylprednisolone group relative to placebo. Cox proportional hazards and penalized ridge regression models were used to prioritize proteins and develop a prediction model for therapeutic efficacy. The candidate proteins were further validated by ELISA.Among more than 1,500 detected proteins, 302 were glucocorticoid-modulated and enriched in pathways of cytoskeletal stabilization and immunometabolism. Notably, pathways associated with long-term eGFR decline, such as complement activation and endothelial injury, were not modulated by glucocorticoids. Among the glucocorticoid-modulated proteins, Cox proportional hazards and penalized ridge regression models identified those whose baseline levels improved prediction of treatment efficacy compared to clinical variables alone. ELISA validated selected candidate proteins LEP and C1QTNF5. The prediction model incorporating these two proteins significantly outperformed the traditional clinical model in predicting glucocorticoid efficacy (5-year AUC, 0.85 [95% confidence interval (CI), 0.72 to 0.88] versus 0.80 [95% CI, 0.78 to 0.91]).Data from this randomized trial-based proteomic study helped delineate glucocorticoid-modulated proteins and pathways, and identified robust protein biomarkers that enabled stratification of patients likely to benefit from glucocorticoid therapy.Copyright © 2026 by the American Society of Nephrology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565088 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558428 is a review article
Ghrelin is the endogenous ligand of the ghrelin secretagogue receptors (GHSRs). Although the GHSRs are densely expressed in the dentate gyrus (DG) granule cells (GCs), their roles in the DG GCs remain to be fully understood. We probed the actions of ghrelin on the DG GCs with whole-cell recordings and its effects on short-term spatial memory using the Y-maze spontaneous alternation test. Application of ghrelin excited the DG GCs by depressing the G protein-coupled inwardly rectifying K+ (GIRK) channels and ATP-sensitive K+ (KATP) channels, activating the hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channels and a TTX-resistant, persistent Na+ channel. Adenylyl cyclase and EPAC2 were required, whereas phospholipase C and protein kinase A were not needed for the ghrelin-mediated excitation of DG GCs. Overnight fasting augmented the excitability of the DG GCs via activation of GHSRs, suggesting a role for endogenously released ghrelin. Ghrelin also enhanced synaptic recruitment of action potentials in DG GCs. Microinjection of ghrelin into the DG increased the alternating sequences in the Y maze test via GHSR-mediated elevation of cAMP and EPAC signals. Our results provide an action mode to explain the roles of GHSRs in improving cognitive functions.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Biology published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552253 is a review article
Obesity is a growing global health burden with rising incidence. Red ginseng (RGS), a traditional processed ginseng product, shows potential for improving metabolic parameters, though its anti-obesity mechanism remains incompletely understood.This study investigated the therapeutic effects of short-term RGS administration on obesity and sought to elucidate the underlying mechanism.A high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obese mouse model was used to assess short-term RGS effects. Antibiotic treatment and fecal microbiota transplantation were performed to evaluate gut microbiota involvement. 16S rRNA sequencing and metagenomic analysis identified key bacterial species, and mass spectrometry-based proteomics identified A. muciniphila-derived proteins. The growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15)-GFRAL axis was interrogated using Gfral‒/‒ mice.Short-term RGS treatment suppressed appetite, reduced body weight, and elevated circulating GDF15 in diet-induced obese (DIO) mice. RGS enriched A. muciniphila, and its depletion abrogated RGS-mediated weight loss and appetite suppression. The A. muciniphila-derived protein Amuc_1631 was identified as a key effector promoting GDF15 secretion. Mechanistically, RGS upregulated colonic Gdf15 transcription via the PERK-eIF2α-ATF4-CHOP axis and activated the brainstem GDF15-GFRAL pathway. The RGS 50% ethanol eluate (RGS/50) fraction was identified as the potential active component responsible for A. muciniphila enrichment and GDF15 elevation.This study identifies a gut microbiota-dependent mechanism underlying the anti-obesity effects of RGS, centered on A. muciniphila enrichment and its derived protein Amuc_1631, which promotes GDF15 secretion to suppress food intake via the GDF15-GFRAL axis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) remains a critical global health burden, and a substantial proportion of patients exhibit insufficient responses to conventional monoaminergic antidepressants. Selective inhibition of the two-pore domain potassium channel TREK1 has emerged as a promising antidepressant strategy; however, the regulatory mechanisms controlling TREK1 trafficking-particularly its functional coupling with G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs)-remain poorly understood. Here, we established a cell-based screening platform using a biomolecular luminescence complementation (BiLC) assay to monitor agonist-induced changes in membrane-associated TREK1. Using this platform, we identified a TREK1-5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 4 (HTR4) complex in vitro and in native hippocampal tissues using biomolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC), co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), and proximity ligation assays (PLA). Live-cell imaging demonstrated that treatment with the HTR4 agonist mosapride induces redistribution/internalization of a plasma membrane-associated TREK1-HTR4 pool into intracellular compartments. Electrophysiological recordings further confirmed that mosapride reduces TREK1 channel activity in an HTR4-dependent manner. In vivo, oral administration of mosapride for five days ameliorated lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced depressive-like behaviors in mice and preserved markers associated with hippocampal neurogenesis. Notably, viral expression of the TREK1 C-terminal interaction domain (C1), which competitively disrupts the TREK1-HTR4 complex, attenuated the neurogenic and behavioral effects of mosapride, supporting a causal role of TREK1 regulation in mediating these antidepressant-like actions. Collectively, our findings reveal a previously unrecognized mechanism in which HTR4 dynamically regulates TREK1 trafficking and function, and they highlight GPCR-based modulation of TREK1 as a potential therapeutic strategy for depressive disorders.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42528605 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42509862 is a review article
Cancer cachexia is a life-threatening wasting syndrome that can be driven by tumor-derived GDF15 signaling through the brainstem-restricted receptor GFRAL. Despite its clinical importance, central genetic interventions targeting this axis remain limited. Here, we develop a potent antisense oligonucleotide (Gfral-ASO, A427) that specifically silences Gfral expression in the central nervous system. Using orthotopic mouse models of severe colon (MC38) and pancreatic (KPC and MPC1) cancers, we show that a single intracerebroventricular administration of Gfral ASO markedly blunts GFRAL expression and pathogenic c-Fos neuronal activation in the area postrema and nucleus tractus solitarius. This central blockade reverses cachectic phenotypes, restoring body weight, muscle mass, and adipose depots. Notably, Gfral ASO achieves superior restoration of muscle (grip) strength compared with systemic anti-GDF15 neutralizing antibody. Crucially, silencing central GFRAL signaling profoundly extends survival of tumor-bearing mice. Our findings highlight central GFRAL antagonism via ASO as a promising therapeutic strategy for cancer cachexia.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Porcine Sertoli cells (SCs) treated by acute heat stress (HS) (43°C, 0.5 h) have significantly decreased taurine level. Taurine treatment of porcine SCs could promote proliferation, inhibit apoptosis, enhance mitochondrial function and modulate protein profile. However, whether taurine can alleviate damages of porcine SCs caused by acute HS is unknown. We here showed that treatment of porcine SCs using taurine (5.7 μM) for 12 h before acute HS (HS0.5-B12-Taurine) significantly rescued damages induced by acute HS (HS0.5-Control), including cell viability, proliferation, apoptosis, intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, mitochondrial number, and lactate content. Transcriptome sequencing identified 18 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) (HS0.5-B12-Taurine vs. HS0.5-Control), mainly enriched in Gene Ontology (GO) terms of apoptosis, transmembrane transport, inward rectifier potassium channel activity, and 2 iron/2 sulfur cluster binding. RT-qPCR validated expression of 5 DEGs (GRIA4, KCNJ13, PTER, RAB44 and SLC12A8) and 7 other genes (AFF4, CXCL8, DENND5B, EPM2AIP1, SLC6A6, SSH2 and WNK3), most of them showing change trend consistent with RNA-seq results. Moreover, HDAC5 was confirmed to be significantly reduced in HS0.5-B12-Taurine (Western blotting: P < 0.05; Immunofluorescence: P < 0.01). Collectively, these findings suggest that taurine protects porcine SCs against damages induced by acute HS.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Periodontitis progresses more rapidly and severely in individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), yet whether the integrated stress response (ISR) contributes to the progression of diabetic periodontitis has not been elucidated.This study aims to clarify the impact and mechanisms of growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15) in diabetic periodontitis.We performed single-cell RNA sequencing on periodontal tissues and integrated the datasets with bidirectional Mendelian randomization to identify ISR-related alterations associated with impaired periodontal regeneration under diabetic conditions. Functional analyses were conducted in periodontal ligament stem cells (PDLSCs) subjected to diabetic-inflammatory conditions. Genetic deletion, antibody-based neutralization of GDF15, and ISR inhibition were used to evaluate therapeutic rescue effects in diabetic mice.We identify GDF15 as an important effector of ISR signaling in PDLSCs. T2DM induces sustained PERK-eIF2α activation accompanied by GDF15 induction, leading to translational repression, loss of proteostasis, and impaired osteogenic differentiation. Mechanistically, GDF15 silencing preserved BiP-PERK complex stability and attenuated downstream PERK-eIF2α activation under diabetic-inflammatory stress. Genetic ablation or pharmacologic neutralization of GDF15, as well as ISR inhibition, partially restores PDLSC proteostasis and bone-forming capacity, preserving periodontal tissue regenerative capacity in diabetic mice.These findings suggest that GDF15 contributes to ISR-mediated PDLSC dysfunction and impaired periodontal regeneration under diabetic conditions. Targeting pathological GDF15-ISR signaling may provide mechanistic insight for future strategies to improve periodontal regenerative outcomes in T2DM.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15) rises dramatically in early pregnancy and has been linked to nausea, vomiting, and hyperemesis gravidarum (HG). Significant challenges remain as GDF15 levels overlap between normal and complicated pregnancies, limiting its current clinical utility as a biomarker. Furthermore, early pregnancy GDF15 trajectories remain poorly characterised because most studies lack longitudinal sampling and rely on single or infrequent measurements.We analysed longitudinal serum GDF15 samples and Pregnancy Unique Quantification of Emesis 24 (PUQE-24) questionnaire scores from women enrolled in two early pregnancy clinical trials (PEP Cohort and VOMIT Study), using robust nonlinear statistical models to characterise trajectories. Analyses included uncomplicated (reference) pregnancies, early pregnancy loss (EPL), and HG.In normal pregnancies, GDF15 rose dramatically until week 7, and plateaued by week 9, with a sigmoidal model fit (P < 0.01). Pregnancies with female foetuses had approximately 19% higher GDF15 (P < 0.01), and the rise occurred one day later in male foetuses (P < 0.02). PUQE-24 scores in normal pregnancy peaked around week 8 and declined thereafter, aligning with the GDF15 plateau. In women with HG, GDF15 plateaued by the time of diagnosis, with higher levels compared to normal pregnancies in the early window (P < 0.05) but overlapping confidence intervals by week 8. EPL showed lower GDF15 levels and a slower rise, but also heterogeneity between types of EPL.GDF15 trajectories in early pregnancy diverge by outcome and foetal sex. These patterns clarify GDF15 dynamics in normal pregnancy and complications such as HG and EPL and define optimal sampling windows and tentative reference intervals. These findings support further evaluation of GDF15 as a biomarker to improve diagnosis and guide treatment.Independent Research Fund Denmark. The funder of the study had no role in study design, data collection, data analysis, data interpretation, or writing.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is highly aggressive and difficult to treat, partly due to the lack of in vitro models that faithfully recapitulate its biochemical and mechanobiological microenvironment. Synthetic hydrogels lack tumor-specific cues, while animal-derived dECM suffers from batch variability, limiting standardization.Here, we describe a GBM-derived dECM bioink formulated through mechanically stimulated 3D GBM culture within GelMA/HAMA hydrogels. By controlling the matrix stiffness to match GBM tissue and applying various compressive stresses that mimic intracranial solid stress, we identified a mechanobiological activation range that maximized secretion of GBM-associated factors, including GDF15, MMP2, and MMP9.The resulting bioink exhibited upregulated tumor-specific biochemical signals compared to hydrogel-only controls. Micromesh-bioprinted GBM constructs fabricated from this bioink demonstrated enhanced proliferation, invasion-related gene expression, and ECM remodeling. Co-culture with endothelial cells or fibroblasts further reconstructed stromal activation, paracrine signaling, and matrix dynamics associated with GBM progression and therapeutic resistance.This strategy establishes a reproducible, bioactive GBM-specific bioink platform for physiologically relevant 3D GBM modeling and GBM-on-chip applications.© The author(s).
Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) is a prevalent autoimmune thyroid disorder, typically triggers localized thyroid inflammation and systemic dyslipidemia, and progression to hypothyroidism. While growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15) is recognized for its role in lipid metabolism and inflammatory diseases, its specific involvement in HT remains elusive.We conducted plasma metabolomic profiling in HT patients and matched healthy controls to identify altered metabolic pathways. Correlation analysis was performed between serum GDF15 and clinical indicators. In vitro thyroid follicular cell models and NaI-induced in vivo thyroid inflammatory models were applied with GDF15 overexpression, knockdown, recombinant protein and siRNA treatment to explore the functional role of GDF15.Plasma metabolomic profiling in HT patients revealed that differentially expressed metabolites are predominantly enriched in lipid metabolism pathways. GDF15 expression was increased by 1.98-fold in HT serum compared to controls (p < 0.001), and serum GDF15 levels were negatively correlated with thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH, R = -0.4943, p = 0.0040), aspartate aminotransferase (AST, R = -0.4506, p = 0.0238) and ultrasound attenuation parameter (UAP, R = -0.4894, p = 0.0071) in HT patients. Functional assays demonstrated that GDF15 overexpression tends to attenuate NaI-induced thyroid and systemic inflammation, relatively improving lipid profiles and reduces hepatic lipid deposition; however, GDF15 knockdown appeared to exacerbate these pathologies. Furthermore, recombinant GDF15 protein mitigates NaI-induced inflammatory responses in thyroid follicular cells, whereas GDF15 siRNA intensifies the inflammation.Given the limitations of the NaI-induced model and the lack of thyroid-specific genetic manipulation, these findings suggest a significant association between GDF15 and HT, though further research is required to establish definitive causality.Copyright © 2026 Yin, Sun, Gong, Shan and Zhao.
Most people with HIV (PWH) achieve immune recovery with antiretroviral therapy (ART); however, a clinically relevant subset, known as immune non-responders (INRs), fails to restore CD4+ T-cell counts despite sustained virological suppression and shows persistent immune dysfunction. Growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF-15), a stress-responsive cytokine associated with inflammation, aging, chronic disease, and multimorbidity, has not been characterized across distinct HIV viro-immunological phenotypes.We conducted an exploratory cross-sectional study including 80 PWH classified as ART-naïve individuals, virally suppressed INRs, elite controllers (ECs), and ART-treated immune responders (IRs), as well as 20 HIV-negative controls. Plasma GDF-15 levels were measured by immunoassay. Associations with log-transformed GDF-15 concentrations were assessed using multivariable linear regression including age, CD4+ T-cell nadir, and INR status.INRs showed the highest plasma GDF-15 levels (median, 1143.9 pg/ml), significantly exceeding those observed in ART-naïve individuals, ECs, IRs, and HIV-negative controls (all p ≤ 0.002). GDF-15 levels correlated positively with age, time since HIV diagnosis, and ART duration, and inversely with CD4+ T-cell nadir and the CD4/CD8 ratio (all p ≤ 0.001). In adjusted analysis, INR status remained independently associated with higher log-transformed GDF-15 levels (β = 0.271, 95% CI 0.062-0.480; p = 0.012), corresponding to 31.1% higher GDF-15 concentrations relative to non-INR participants.Plasma GDF-15 levels were higher in virally suppressed INRs than in other viro-immunological groups and remained independently associated with INR status after adjustment for selected covariates. These findings support further investigation of GDF-15 as a potential biomarker of incomplete immune recovery and residual biological stress in virally suppressed PWH. Prospective studies are warranted to validate its clinical and pathophysiological relevance.© 2026. The Author(s).
Sepsis-associated acute kidney injury (SAKI) lacks mechanism-based therapies, with upstream ferroptosis regulators undefined. This study investigated growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15) as a suppressor of TLR4-MyD88-NF-κB signaling and associated ferroptosis. Differential GDF15 expression was identified by integrated analysis of three GEO datasets (GSE232404, GSE30718, GSE44925) and validated in SAKI patient kidney tissue (n = 30 vs. controls n = 25) and in kidneys from cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) mice. CLP mice received recombinant GDF15 (rmGDF15) (50 ng/kg ip); renal function (Scr/BUN), histology, kidney injury molecule-1 (KIM-1), serum TNF-α/IL-1β/IL-6 (ELISA), and 7-day survival were assessed. Oxidative stress/ferroptosis was quantified by DCFH-DA ROS imaging and kits (MDA, GSH, SOD, NADPH, Fe, GPX4 activity); TLR4-MyD88-NF-κB by qRT-PCR, Western blot, and Immunohistochemistry. LPS (1 μg/mL, 48 h)-stimulated HK-2 cells underwent shGDF15 lentiviral knockdown (puromycin 2 μg/mL) ± TAK242 (1 μM); viability (CCK-8), apoptosis (Annexin V/PI flow), cytokines (ELISA/qRT-PCR), ROS, ferroptosis markers, and pathway activation were evaluated. GDF15 was upregulated in SAKI datasets, patient kidney tissue, and CLP kidneys. GDF15 supplementation improved survival, lowered Scr/BUN and KIM-1, attenuated tubular injury, and reduced systemic proinflammatory cytokines. It decreased renal ROS, MDA and Fe while restoring GSH, SOD, NADPH, GPX4 activity, and SLC7A11 expression, and suppressed TLR4-MyD88-NF-κB signaling. In HK-2 cells, GDF15 silencing aggravated LPS-induced loss of viability, apoptosis, cytokine release, oxidative stress, and ferroptosis markers, all reversed by TAK242. In conclusion, GDF15 is a stress-inducible renoprotective factor that suppresses TLR4 signaling, ferroptosis markers, and inflammation in SAKI, suggesting exogenous administration as a promising therapeutic strategy.© 2026 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.
The pathophysiological mechanisms of heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) are complex, with myocardial fibrosis being one of its core features, closely associated with diastolic dysfunction and poor prognosis. Sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) have shown clinical benefits in patients with HFpEF; however, their effects on myocardial strain and diastolic function, as well as their relationship with the reduction of myocardial fibrosis, remain unclear.To evaluate the effects of long-term SGLT2i treatment (≥6 months) on left ventricular global longitudinal strain (GLS), diastolic function parameters, and serum fibrosis markers in patients with HFpEF, and to explore the potential mechanisms, through a retrospective cohort study.A total of 185 patients with HFpEF diagnosed at our hospital between June 2023 and January 2025 were consecutively enrolled and divided into an SGLT2i group (n = 93) and a control group (n = 92) based on whether they received SGLT2i treatment. Demographic data, echocardiographic parameters (GLS, LVEF, E/e', LAVI, LVMI, TRV), and serological indicators (NT-proBNP, PⅢNP, GDF-15) were collected at baseline and during follow-up (median 12 months). The primary endpoint was the change in GLS (ΔGLS); secondary endpoints included changes in diastolic function parameters, rates of biomarker change, and heart failure rehospitalization rate. Independent sample t-tests, Mann-Whitney U tests, and chi-square tests were used to compare intergroup differences; Pearson correlation analysis was performed to assess the correlation between ΔGLS and ΔPⅢNP, ΔNT-proBNP; multivariate linear regression analysis was used to identify independent influencing factors of GLS improvement; Kaplan-Meier method was used to evaluate rehospitalization-free survival.Baseline characteristics were balanced and comparable between the two groups (all P > 0.05). After 6 months of treatment, GLS improved significantly (ΔGLS: -2.49% ± 0.54% vs. -0.44% ± 0.52%, P < 0.001). NT-proBNP decreased by 30.4% vs. 9.7% (P < 0.001), PⅢNP by 15.1% vs. 5.8% (P < 0.001), and GDF-15 by 20.5% vs. 8.6% (P < 0.001). During the follow-up period, the heart failure rehospitalization rate in the SGLT2i group was significantly lower than that in the control group (24.7% vs. 55.4%, P < 0.001), and rehospitalization-free survival was significantly higher (Log-rank P < 0.001). In the overall population, ΔGLS was significantly positively correlated with ΔPⅢNP (r = 0.554, P < 0.001). Multivariate regression analysis showed that SGLT2i treatment was an independent predictor of GLS improvement (β= -2.05, P < 0.001).Long-term SGLT2i treatment can significantly improve myocardial strain, diastolic function, and clinical outcomes in patients with HFpEF, and its effects are closely related to the reduction of myocardial fibrosis markers, suggesting that the anti-fibrotic effect may be an important mechanism of SGLT2i cardioprotection.© 2026 Xu, Liu and Chen.
The spleen harbors distinct macrophage subsets that support circulatory homeostasis and initiate immune responses, but the ontogeny and long-term dynamics of these populations remain incompletely understood. Here, we identified a transcriptionally and developmentally distinct CD163-expressing red pulp macrophage (CD163high RPM) population that arose from yolk sac progenitors and occupied a vascular-associated niche. Using fate-mapping models, we showed that CD163- RPMs were progressively replenished by monocytes during aging, whereas CD163high RPMs were mainly self-maintaining. During blood-stage malaria, CD163high RPMs were rapidly depleted, failed to recover despite parasite clearance, and were replaced by CD163- monocyte-derived RPMs. Single-cell RNA sequencing and genetic mouse models revealed that CD163 deficiency exacerbated structural disintegration of the marginal zone and selectively impaired marginal metallophilic macrophage (MMM) recovery, underscoring a CD163-dependent RPM-MMM crosstalk. This study reveals that the sustained loss of a specialized, yolk sac-derived CD163high RPM subset rewires splenic architecture and inter-macrophage crosstalk long after malaria resolution.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Phosphorylation, carried out by kinases, is a pivotal mechanism for all cell signal transduction pathways. In eukaryotic cells, Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases (MAPK) form modules with three kinases (MAPKKK, MAPKK, and MAPK) that are sequentially activated, participating in multiple signaling mechanisms. The second kinase forming a typical module is called MAP kinase kinase (MAPKK or MKK), which receives the signal from MAPKKK and transmits it to MAPK. The Arabidopsis thaliana genome has 10 MKKs and they are classified into four different groups (A, B, C, and D). To date, several aspects of the MKK functioning are known, but there is little information about MKK expression in plant tissues. Here, each MKK upstream region was fused to the UidA reporter, and these pMKK1-10:UidA constructions were used to reveal the MKK expression patterns in the tissues of the seedlings during their early development. This experimental expression analysis was complemented with a detailed bioinformatic analysis focused on identifying the cis-regulatory elements present in these upstream promoter regions.
Interaction with microbes can reprogram metabolism and alter nutrient availability in plant cells. How metabolic changes modulate immune responses remains unknown. Here, we show that sugar-sensing O-glycosylation of immune-signaling kinases mediates metabolic regulation of immunity. Under sugar-replete conditions, the MAP kinase kinases (MKK4 and MKK5), key components of pattern-triggered immunity (PTI), are glycosylated with O-GlcNAc and O-fucose on their activation loops, blocking their phosphorylation by upstream kinases and thereby restricting PTI. Pathogen infection or sugar starvation reduces O-glycosylation of MKK4/5 and enhances immune signaling; these effects are reversed by GDP-fucose treatment, demonstrating that reduced sugar availability decreases O-fucosylation and enhances immune signaling in infected cells. Chemical inhibition of O-fucosylation enhances immunity and pathogen resistance in both Arabidopsis and tomato. Our findings establish O-glycosylation of MKKs as a metabolic rheostat that fine-tunes immune responses according to sugar availability during plant-microbe interactions, providing a new strategy for improving crop health.
Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) is a rare autosomal recessive ciliopathy with multisystem involvement, including retinal dystrophy, obesity, polydactyly, renal anomalies, hypogonadism, and cognitive impairment. Early diagnosis is often delayed due to gradual symptom onset. The revised diagnostic criteria for BBS, considering molecular diagnosis, ensures diagnostic certainty.We report a case of a 15-year-old girl born out of a nonconsanguineous marriage with delayed puberty, progressive vision loss, and obesity. Family history revealed similar symptoms in her 3 younger siblings. All four fulfilled diagnostic criteria for BBS. Whole exome sequencing in the index case and Sanger sequencing in the other 3 siblings identified a pathogenic homozygous 1 base pair deletion in exon 3 of the MKKS gene (p.Ser236Ter), confirming BBS type 6.BBS is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous disorder. Genetic confirmation aids early diagnosis, enabling timely intervention and multidisciplinary management to alleviate the burdensome complications.This case highlights the importance of early recognition and genetic confirmation in BBS, even in the background of nonconsanguinity. Early diagnosis can improve quality of life and long-term outcomes.© 2025 American Association of Clinical Endocrinology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) is a rare genetic disorder characterized by a wide range of symptoms and clinical signs. The aim of the current work is to provide a comprehensive overview of the clinical and genetic features of BBS patients, with a focus on ophthalmological manifestations.In a retrospective analysis at the University Eye Hospital Bonn, data from 18 patients with a molecular genetically confirmed diagnosis of BBS were analyzed. In addition to the medical history, clinical examination included multimodal imaging, the collection of functional data and molecular genetic diagnostics.17 patients (17/18; 94%) presented typical retinal changes consistent with retinitis pigmentosa (RP) and 1 patient (1/18; 6%) showed a central cone-rod dystrophy without peripheral changes. In addition, other nonophthalmological symptoms and clinical signs, such as limb abnormalities (9/18; 50%), obesity (7/18; 39%), urogenital tract abnormalities (7/18; 39%) and neurological symptoms (8/18; 44%) were noted. Molecular genetic analyses revealed disease-causing variants in several BBS genes, including the BBS1 (Bardet-Biedl syndrome)1 gene (9), BBS10 (3), BBS7 (1), BBS12 (1) and the MKKS (McKusick-Kaufmann syndrome) gene (2). The average time between the onset of the first ophthalmological symptoms and the final genetic diagnosis was 15 years (median 10 years, range 1-36 years).This study emphasizes the importance of an interdisciplinary approach in the diagnosis and treatment of BBS patients. The clinical heterogeneity of BBS can lead to diagnostic delays. Early diagnosis enables appropriate genetic counseling, monitoring of disease progression, individualized treatment initiation and exploration of potential therapeutic interventions.© 2025. The Author(s).
Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS, OMIM 209900) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by a broad spectrum of clinical features including renal anomalies, learning disabilities, postaxial polydactyly, retinal dystrophy, obesity, and hypogonadism. BBS is a heterogeneous syndrome, both genetically and clinically. To date, genetic variants in more than 28 genes have been associated with this syndrome and its subtypes. Most previous studies on BBS have failed to show clear genotype-phenotype correlations. In order to investigate the spectrum of genetic variation among Iranian BBS patients, 9 subjects from 9 different families with clinically diagnosed BBS were included in this study. Following informed consent, we applied exome sequencing (ES) to the proband and their parents. We next performed Sanger sequencing to validate the identified variants. ES successfully detected four known variants: two in the BBS9 gene, c.2014C > T (p.Gln672Ter) and c.1789 + 1 G > A, one variant in the BBS10 gene (c.728_731del; p.Lys243Ilefs*15), and one variant in the MKKS gene (c.515_516del; p.Glu172Alafs*19). ES also detected two new variants in the BBS7 gene, c.880G > C (p.Gly294Arg) and c.719G > A (p.Gly240Asp), one new variant in the CEP290 gene, c.5159C > G (p.Thr1720Arg), and one new variant, in the TTC8 gene, c.462_465del (p.Ser155Glufs*20). In addition, ES identified one novel homozygous deletion of exon 16 in the BBS9 gene. Among the clinical manifestations observed, obesity and polydactyly were the most common findings. Our findings further support the high heterogeneity of BBS: by discovering known, new, and novel pathogenic variants. We expand the mutational spectrum of BBS-related genes and contribute to the understanding of this multisystem disease.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) is a rare nonmotile ciliopathy characterized by retinal dystrophy, polydactyly, obesity, genital anomalies, renal dysfunction, and learning difficulties. The objectives were to describe the retinal, oral, and metabolic characteristics relevant to adults with BBS as well as the prevalence of genetic variants.A cross-sectional study of 30 adults with BBS (15 males, 15 females, mean age 39.8 ± 13.6 years) was recruited from a single centre for rare disorders in Norway. Participants attended a one day hospital visit including medical (blood pressure, body mass index), ophthalmological and oral examinations. Blood samples were collected and genetic analyses were performed.Age at diagnosis varied from one year to 30 years. The incidence of overweight/obesity, hypertension, kidney disease, and diabetes mellitus was 82%, 67%, 27%, and 23%, respectively. All had retinitis pigmentosa. Prior to the study, 14 participants (47%) had confirmed extinguished electroretinography. Eleven participants were examined with electroretinography during the study period, and all had extinguished electroretinography. 50% perceived light, 23% saw hand motion, and one participant did not perceive light. Oral anomalies were identified in 77% of the participants, including abnormal palates (58%), crowded teeth (50%), and small teeth (60%). A genetic cause was identified in all participants, most commonly in BBS1 (n = 11) and BBS10 (n = 9). Other variants were found in BBS5, BBS7, BBS9, and MKKS. In addition to exon-located variants, a novel deep intronic variant causing mis-splicing was identified in BBS7.A multidisciplinary examination is important for proper management of BBS. The genotype and phenotype of this sample were heterogeneous, including kidney failure, genital anomalies and obesity. Genome sequencing increased the likelihood of identifying the genetic cause. In BBS populations, the patients will benefit from testing or reanalysis, preferably with genome sequencing, including searching for deep intronic variants.© 2025. The Author(s).
Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK/MPK) cascades are pivotal and highly conserved signaling modules widely distributed in eukaryotes; they play essential roles in plant growth and development, as well as biotic and abiotic stress responses. With the development of sequencing technology, the complete genome assembly of rice without gaps, T2T (Telomere-to-Telomere)-NIP (version AGIS-1.0), has recently been released. In this study, we used bioinformatic approaches to identify and analyze the rice MPK kinases (MKKs) based on the complete genome. A total of seven OsMKKs were identified, and their physical and chemical properties, chromosome localization, gene structure, subcellular localization, phylogeny, family evolution, and cis-acting elements were evaluated. OsMKKs can be divided into four subgroups based on phylogenetic relationships, and the family members located in the same evolutionary branch have relatively similar gene structures and conserved domains. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) revealed that all OsMKKs were highly expressed in rice seedling leaves. The expression levels of all OsMKKs were more or less altered under exogenous hormone and abiotic stress treatments, with OsMKK1, OsMKK6, and OsMKK3 being induced under almost all treatments, while the expression of OsMKK4 and OsMKK10-2 was repressed under salt and drought treatments and IAA treatment, respectively. In this study, we also summarized the recent progress in rice MPK cascades, highlighted their diverse functions, and outlined the potential MPK signaling network, facilitating further studies on OsMKK genes and rice MPK cascades.
The calcium-dependent protein kinase CPK28 regulates several stress pathways in multiple plant species. Here, we aimed to discover CPK28-associated proteins in Arabidopsis thaliana. We used affinity-based proteomics and identified several potential CPK28 binding partners, including the C7 Raf-like kinases MRK1, RAF26, and RAF39. We used biochemistry, genetics, and physiological assays to gain insight into their function. We define redundant roles for these kinases in stomatal opening, immune-triggered reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, and resistance to a bacterial pathogen. We report that CPK28 associates with and trans-phosphorylates RAF26 and RAF39, and that MRK1, RAF26, and RAF39 are active kinases that localize to endomembranes. Although Raf-like kinases share some features with mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinases (MKKKs), we found that MRK1, RAF26, and RAF39 are unable to trans-phosphorylate any of the 10 Arabidopsis mitogen-activated protein kinase kinases (MKKs). Overall, our study suggests that C7 Raf-like kinases associate with and are phosphorylated by CPK28, function redundantly in stomatal opening and immunity, and possess substrate specificities distinct from canonical MKKKs.© 2024 The Author(s). New Phytologist © 2024 New Phytologist Foundation.
Mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs/MPKs) are pivotal regulators in many stress-signaling pathways in plants. The dual phosphorylation of the TXY motif by MAP kinase kinases (MKKs) is essential for activating MAPKs. Here, we reveal a mechanism for MAPK activation that bypasses the need for MKKs. We identified rice (Oryza sativa) calcium-dependent protein kinase 5 (OsCPK5) and OsCPK13 as positive regulators in salt stress tolerance. These kinases are essential for the full activation of OsMPK3 and OsMPK6 in response to elevated sodium levels, with both OsMPK3 and OsMPK6 also acting as positive regulators in rice salt tolerance. Biochemical analysis demonstrated that OsCPK5/13 directly interact with and activate OsMPK3/6 by phosphorylating the TXY motif in vitro and in vivo. Additionally, we have discovered that OsCPK5/13 relocate from the cell membrane to the nucleus in response to salt stress. This process relies on their N-terminal myristoylation and a calcium-dependent phosphorylation event within the N-terminus. Our results elucidate a MAPK activation pathway in rice that is independent of traditional MKK-mediated phosphorylation, highlighting the crucial roles of OsCPK5 and OsCPK13 in directly phosphorylating and activating OsMPK3/6, which are important for rice tolerance to salt stress.© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society of Plant Biologists.
An Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade composed of YODA (YDA)-MKK4/MKK5-MPK3/MPK6 plays an essential role downstream of the ERECTA (ER)/ER-LIKE (ERL) receptor complex in regulating stomatal development in the leaf epidermis. STOMAGEN (STO), a peptide ligand produced in mesophyll cells, competes with EPIDERMAL PATTERNING FACTOR2 (EPF2) for binding ER/ERL receptors to promote stomatal formation. In this study, we found that activation of MPK3/MPK6 suppresses STO expression. Using MUTE and STO promoters that confer epidermis- and mesophyll-specific expression, respectively, we generated lines with cell-specific activation and suppression of MPK3/MPK6. The activation or suppression of MPK3/MPK6 in either epidermis or mesophyll cells is sufficient to alter stomatal differentiation. Epistatic analyses demonstrated that STO overexpression can rescue the suppression of stomatal formation conferred by the mesophyll-specific expression of the constitutively active MKK4DD or MKK5DD, but not by the epidermis-specific expression of these constitutively active MKKs. These data suggest that STO is downstream of MPK3/MPK6 in mesophyll cells, but upstream of MPK3/MPK6 in epidermal cells in stomatal development signaling. This function of the MPK3/MPK6 cascade allows it to coordinate plant epidermis development based on its activity in mesophyll cells during leaf development.© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society of Plant Biologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Background/Objectives: Yes-associated protein 1 (YAP1) is a transcriptional cofactor that coordinates the complex interplay between cell proliferation, survival, differentiation, metabolism, biomechanics, and tissue regeneration. Previous studies have shown that YAP1 activity is reduced during aging, and replacing YAP1 function has been shown to rejuvenate old cells by mitigating senescence and its associated inflammation. Methods: As YAP1 is now confirmed to exert a profound regenerative influence on multiple organs, we wanted to gain more insight into the molecular signature of YAP1 expression relevant to brain cells. Since proteomics is a very powerful tool for discoveries, we generated SH-SY5Y cells stably expressing GFP-YAP1 and screened 8000 human proteins using multiplex arrays that utilize biotin-label-based antibody arrays. Results: We found YAP1 expression in astrocytes, microglia, neuronal and neuroblastoma cell lines, as well as human neurons. Importantly, YAP1 protein levels were significantly reduced selectively in the nuclear fractions of the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) relative to normal control (NC) subjects. The screen resulted in the identification of 283 differentially expressed proteins. In line with YAP1's known role in the regulation of actin and cytoskeleton, we found a 2.53-fold upregulated level of Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor 1 (ARHGEF1), a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for the RhoA GTPase, which is crucial for dendritic spine regulation. A 6.19-fold upregulated level of NECAP endocytosis-associated 2 (NECAP2), the highest known increase for any protein in this screen, plays an essential role in clathrin-mediated endocytosis. Most importantly, another upregulated protein was Neudesin Neurotrophic Factor (NENF) (3.07-fold increase), also known as Neudesin, which primarily acts as a neurotrophic factor, and it promotes neuronal survival, enhances cell proliferation, and neurogenesis in neural progenitor cells. Neural Precursor Cell Expressed, Developmentally Down-Regulated 9(NEDD9) levels were also upregulated by 2.46-fold, and it affects neuronal cell number and synaptic connections through its role in neurite formation. However, it should be noted that these proteomic results are preliminary in nature as they are derived from single-sample data. The upregulated levels of ARHGEF1 and NEDD9 were confirmed by immunoblots. We also found a drastic reduction in the levels of p16INK4a, a marker of senescence. Conclusions: Thus, the anti-senescence effect of YAP1 may be mediated through p16INK4a, which in turn may be crucial for YAP1's regenerative functions through NENF and NEDD9.
This study aimed to identify novel circulating protein biomarkers for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) superior to alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) by integrating tumor stemness index and secreted protein screening, and to explore their roles in prognosis, immune microenvironment, and tumor mechanisms.Stemness-associated differentially expressed genes were identified from TCGA (The Cancer Genome Atlas) and GEO (Gene Expression Omnibus) databases after applying ComBat batch effect correction and quantile normalization to harmonize the datasets. WGCNA (weighted gene co-expression network analysis), secreted protein databases, and plasma sequencing were used to select candidate genes. Functional and immune infiltration analyses were performed, alongside multivariable Cox regression modeling and inverse variance weighted (IVW) Mendelian Randomization (MR) for prognostic and causal validation.A total of 19 genes significantly associated with tumor stemness and detectable in circulation were identified. After filtering based on clinicopathological features and survival analysis, 10 key genes were selected. The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis revealed that, aside from FCN3 (ficolin 3), the diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of CRHBP (corticotropin-releasing hormone binding protein), CLEC3B (C-type lectin domain family 3 member B), TEK (TEK receptor tyrosine kinase), SOGA1 (SOGA family member 1), IL33 (interleukin 33), CXCL12 (C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 12), NENF (neudesin neurotrophic factor), and ITM2B (integral membrane protein 2B) (AUCs [area under the curves] ranging from 0.67 to 0.99) surpassed those of AFP (AUC = 0.64). Cibersort analysis indicated significant associations of CRHBP, CLEC3B, TEK, IL33, NENF, CXCL12, and AFP with various immune cell infiltrates. The gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) suggested that CRHBP, CLEC3B, TEK, NENF, and AFP were primarily enriched in cell cycle-related pathways, whereas IL33, CXCL12, SOGA1, and ITM2B were involved in MAPK, GNRH, and NOTCH signaling. A multivariable Cox regression model identified CLEC3B, TEK, and NENF for constructing a prognostic signature, which demonstrated strong predictive performance in the TCGA cohort, as evidenced by the concordance index (C-index), time-dependent ROC analysis (1-/3-/5-year AUCs: 0.74/0.72/0.70), and decision curve analysis. IVW MR analysis further confirmed a causal relationship between cis-expression quantitative trait loci (cis-eQTLs) of the NENF gene and HCC risk (P = 0.024), with no significant pleiotropy or heterogeneity detected. Elevated NENF protein expression, validated by proteomic and immunohistochemical analyses of public databases and a tissue microarray cohort, was significantly associated with HCC progression and reduced overall survival (hazard ratio [HR], 2.456; 95% CI, 1.271-4.960; P = 0.012).This multi-omics study reveals a panel of eight circulating proteins with diagnostic performance superior to that of AFP and independent prognostic value in HCC, nominating NENF as a causal biomarker for disease progression and survival.© 2026. The Author(s).
To explore the key risk genes involved in developing NAFLD into HCC. Four datasets-related NAFLD progression (NAFLD, NASH, Hepatofibrosis, Cirrhotic, and Tumor) were obtained from the GEO database. GO and KEGG analyses were performed to identify the biological functions, pathways, and cellular processes associated with the genes. GSVA analyses were performed to assess the variation in pathway activity across different samples based on gene expression profiles. We performed ordinal logistic regression analysis, collinearity analysis, importance analysis of influence factors (LASSO, XGBoost, and RandomForest), and Venn analysis to identify the hub genes within disease progression. The SHAP model and K-M survival analysis screened out risk genes-related development of NAFLD into HCC. The mRNAsi_score analysis evaluates the correlation of NENF expression and tumor stemness. A vector expressing NENF transfection was used to increase its expression. CCK8, cell spheroid formation assay, colony formation, transwell, western blot, and RT-PCR assays were used to detect cell viability, tumor stemness, and gene and protein expression. NENF high expression was associated with NAFLD progression NENF was identified as the risk gene and positively associated with mRNAsi_score. Its expressions gradually increased with the progress of NAFLD to HCC. NENF promoted cells' lipid accumulation. NENF enhanced the induction of L02 cells into stem cells and augmented the tumor-like stem cell properties of L02 cells. NENF, as an important biomarker, promoted the development of NAFLD devolved to HCC by enhancing the tumor-like stem cell properties of normal cells.© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Accurate identification of Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) terms from biomedical text is crucial for disease diagnosis and analysis. However, traditional named entity recognition (NER) methods often fall short by overlooking synonyms and entity variants, resulting in reduced accuracy and coverage. To address these limitations, we introduce three strategic enhancements to improve HPO concept recognition. The first strategy augments the training data by incorporating HPO synonyms at the instance level, which enhances the model's ability to recognize diverse phenotypic expressions. The second strategy introduces HPOBERT, a semantic approach that models HPO synonyms through self-aligned pretraining. This method closely aligns synonym representations while effectively distinguishing them from non-synonyms, thereby improving the model's ability to differentiate between concepts. The third strategy integrates both the instance level and semantic approach. We evaluated these enhancement strategies on four clinical text datasets annotated with HPO concepts. The results demonstrate significant improvements in classification accuracy, recall, and both micro and macro F1 scores. Additionally, our enhancement strategies showed strong performance in Named Entity Normalization (NEN) after NER, accurately linking recognized HPO concepts to standardized knowledge bases. Specifically, we observe improvements of 2.44% and 4.38% in NEN-F on the gold and silver standard datasets, respectively, highlighting the effectiveness of our approach. The source code is available at https://github.com/ZhuLab-Fudan/HPOTagger.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Uveal melanoma (UM) stands as the predominant primary intraocular malignancy encountered among adults. There is still limited research on the function of RNA pseudouridylation-associated genes in UM. This study identified RNA modification-related genes that play crucial role in UM by single-cell RNA sequencing analysis. We validated their expression in UM tissues and cell lines using immunohistochemistry and Western blotting experiments. Gene knockdown and overexpression experiments were conducted in UM cell lines, and their effects on UM proliferation, migration, invasion and apoptosis were verified using CCK-8, colony formation, Edu, scratch wound healing, Transwell assays and flow cytometry. RNA pseudouridylation (RNA-Ψ) modification-related genes NHP2 were identified to be highly expressed in UM tissues and cells. Cox and Lasso regression analysis suggested that NHP2 had a significant impact on the overall survival probability of UM patients. Knockdown of NHP2 inhibited the proliferation, migration, and invasion of UM cells, and promoted apoptosis, while overexpression resulted in the opposite effects. In vivo experiments confirmed that the elevated expression of NHP2 promoted the growth of UM tumors. The molecular subtypes of UM obtained through unsupervised clustering based on the gene set related to high NHP2 expression effectively distinguished the survival statuses of patients. There was a relatively strong immune response and interaction among cytokines in UM with high-risk state, which may be related to the RNA-Ψ modification mediated by NHP2. The prognostic model constructed relied on NHP2-related molecular subtypes efficiently predicted the survival probability and the metastasis risk of UM patients, and experimental validation confirmed the increased expression of the prognostic genes NENF, ILKAP, and SRD5A3 in clinical tissue samples of UM. NHP2 serves as a biomarker related to RNA-Ψ modification in UM, with increased expression promoting disease progression, indicating poor prognosis for patients, and suggesting its potential role as a molecular target for UM treatment.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Prostatitis is a common condition in andrology and urology that significantly impacts the quality of life of affected individuals. Current treatments often fail to provide lasting benefits. To identify novel therapeutic targets, we conducted a drug-targeted Mendelian randomization (MR) study. Using cis-expression quantitative trait loci (cis-eQTL) data from the eQTLGen Consortium combined with Genome-Wide Association Studies (GWAS) data on prostatitis from FinnGen, we performed a two-sample MR analysis. This analysis identified nine potential causal genes: ANXA1, CRY2, DSTYK, FKBP1A, LAMA5, NENF, PTGIR, STK39, and TGFA. Following heterogeneity testing, horizontal pleiotropy assessment, and bidirectional MR, CRY2 and PTGIR were validated in the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) portal replication phase. Bayesian colocalization analysis and genetic correlation analysis investigations provided strong evidence of shared causal variants with prostatitis and negative genetic correlations for these genes. PheWAS indicated negligible horizontal pleiotropy, and drug prediction analysis identified potential targeting agents for CRY2 and PTGIR. This study highlights CRY2 and PTGIR as promising therapeutic targets for prostatitis, providing new insights into its genetic underpinnings and offering potential pathways for developing effective treatments.© 2025. The Author(s).
Tumor metastasis is a continuous and dynamic process and is a major cause of tumor-related death in triple-negative breast cancer. However, this biological process remains largely unknown in triple-negative breast cancer. The emergence of single-cell sequencing enables a deeper understanding of the tumor microenvironment and provides a new strategy for discovering the potential mechanism of tumor metastasis. Herein, we integrated the single-cell expression profiling of primary and metastatic triple-negative breast cancer by Seurat package. Nine tumor cell subgroups were identified. Enrichment analysis suggested tumor subgroups (C0, C4) were associated with tumor metastasis with poor prognosis in TNBC. Weighted gene co-expression network was constructed and identified NENF was a metastasis-related gene. Subsequently, RT-qPCR, Immunohistochemistry, and western blot confirmed NENF is highly expressed in TNBC tissues. And cell function assays indicated NENF promote cell invasion and migration through regulating EMT in TNBC. Finally, TIDE and Connectivity Map database suggest the candidate drugs for targeting NENF. In conclusion, our findings provide a new insight into the progression and metastasis of TNBC and uncover NENF may be a prognostic biomarker and potential therapy targets.© 2024. The Author(s).
Adipocyte play an important role in human health and meat quality by influencing the tenderness, flavor, and juiciness of mutton It has been shown that neuron-derived neurotrophic factor (NENF) is closely related to energy metabolism and adipocyte differentiation in bovine. However, the role of NENF in the goats remains unclear. The aim of this study was to detect the expression of NENF in goat subcutaneous and intramuscular adipocytes, temporal expression profiles of the NENF, and overexpressed NENF on the differentiation of different adipocytes. In this study, PCR amplification successfully cloned the goat NENF gene with a fragment length of 521 bp. In addition, the time point of highest expression of NENF differed between these two adipocytes differentiation processes. Overexpression of NENF in intramuscular and subcutaneous adipocytes promoted the expression levels of differentiation markers CEBPβ and SREBP, which in turn promoted the differentiation of intramuscular and subcutaneous adipocytes. This study will provide basic data for further study of the role of goats in goat adipocyte differentiation and for the final elucidation of its molecular mechanisms in regulating goat adipocyte deposition.
The literature data regarding the risk of colorectal cancer (CRC) in the context of hormone therapy (HT), including both estrogen-progestogen combinations and estrogen alone, are inconclusive. The precise relationship underlying the action of progesterone (P4) and progesterone receptors in CRC has yet to be determined. We characterized the expression profiles of both nuclear and membrane progesterone receptors and their potential cofactors in CRC tissues. Additionally, we analyzed the P4 and NENF treatment effects on the cell proliferation and invasion of DLD-1 and HT-29 colorectal cancer cells. We observed a weak expression of the nuclear P4 receptor (PGR), but an abundant expression of the P4 receptor membrane component 1 (PGRMC1) and neuron-derived neurotrophic factor (NENF) in the CRC tissues. P4 treatment stimulated the proliferation of the DLD-1 and HT-29 CRC cells. The co-treatment of P4 and NENF significantly increased the invasiveness of the DLD-1 and HT-29 cells. A functional analysis revealed that these effects were dependent on PGRMC1. AN immunocytochemical analysis demonstrated a cytoplasmic co-localization of PGRMC1 and NENF in the CRC cells. Moreover, the concentration of serum NENF was significantly higher in CRC patients, and P4 treatment significantly increased the release of NENF in the DLD-1 cells. P4 or NENF treatment also significantly increased the IL-8 release in the DLD-1 cells. Our data may provide novel insights into the action of P4 and PGRMC1/NENF in CRC progression, where NENF may act as a potential PGRMC1 co-activator in non-classical P4 signaling. Furthermore, NENF, as a secreted protein, potentially could serve as a promising circulating biomarker candidate for distinguishing between colorectal cancer patients and healthy individuals, although large-scale extensive studies are needed to establish this.
Aplastic anemia (AA) is a bone marrow hematopoietic failure syndrome mediated by immune cells. The mechanism of this immune disorder is not well understood and therapeutic strategies still need to be improved.Studies have found that abnormalities in metabolisms promote the survival of AA cells. In recent years, an increasing number of studies have reported the immunosuppressive therapy for the treatment of AA. In this study, we analyzed the transcriptome of AA from peripheral blood compared with healthy donors by single-cell sequencing and identified the affected metabolic pathways including lysine degradation. We demonstrated that the metabolic abnormalities of T lymphocytes mainly focus on glycolysis/gluconeogenesis. In addition, the metabolic abnormalities of natural killer cells concentrated in oxidative phosphorylation.The key genes involved in abnormal metabolic processes were Neustein neurotrophic factor (NENF), inositol polyphosphate-4-phosphatase type II B (INPP4B), aldo-keto reductase family 1, member C3 (AKR1C3), and carbohydrate (N-acetylglucosamine-6-O) sulfotransferase 2 (CHST2) by differential gene expression analysis.Molecule interaction analysis showed that tumor necrosis factor superfamily, member 12 (TNFSM12) in tumor necrosis factor (TNF) signaling was broadly activated in AA. In conclusion, we suppose that the treatment of the immune cells' abnormal metabolic pathway may contribute to the development of novel strategies to treat AA.Copyright © 2023 Zhou, Huang, Liu, Huang, Wen, Yang, Liang, Chen and Chen.
It is documented that Schistosoma mansoni antigens can induce immune responses able to regulate complex diseases. Conversely, the dysregulated inflammatory response in leprosy increases morbidity and leads to reactional episodes, impairing the disease pathogenesis. The goal of this study was to evaluate the potential of the S. mansoni (Sm29) antigen in regulating the immune response in leprosy through a transcriptome study across clinical reactional forms: reversal reaction (RR), and erythema nodosum leprosum (ENL), and without reaction (WR).Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were cultured and stimulated with sonicated M. leprae antigen and rSm29 antigen. Total RNA was extracted by the TRIzol® (Ambion) according to the manufacturer's protocol. RNA libraries were constructed with the TruSeq Stranded Total RNA Prep Globin kit (Illumina) and quantified by qPCR with the KAPA Library Quantification Kit (Roche). Sequencing was performed by Nextseq 2000 (Illumina) with 2x100 base pairs (bp) reads. Differential expression was analyzed using DESeq2 to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between conditions. Identified DEGS were subjected to Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA)for enrichment pathway analysis.The Sm29 antigen was able to modulate immune response pathways in leprosy, with this response being more pronounced in the reactional forms of the disease, especially in RR. Interestingly, when compared to sonicated M. leprae, Sm29 had an opposite effect in RR-ENL, evidenced by the top genes most expressed in RR and less in the ENL (C2CD4B, CEMIP, IL23A, CD7, GPC5, EBF1, SIGLEC15, ADAT2, ZC3H12D); Additionally, IPA analysis shown that in RR, modulation of the CSF2 by Sm29 increases IL10, while modulation by IFN-α modulates CXCL9, CXCL-10, IL15, TLRs 2 and 4; On the other hand, in ENL, modulation of IL1B and FN1 genes by rSm29 appear related to several chemokines and cytokines such as IL6, CCL2 and CXCL8.Leprosy proves to be an efficient model for investigating products capable of regulating the host inflammatory response. Here, we open perspectives for new insights in the use of immunobiological, expanding attention to this field that might help management of leprosy patients, especially in reactional episodes.Copyright © 2026 Karoline Silva, de Farias, Lago, Cardoso, Khouri, Machado and Castellucci.
Cutaneous T-cell lymphomas (CTCL) encompass a broad spectrum from highly indolent to aggressive systemic disease, but underlying mechanisms remain only poorly understood. Using single-cell RNA sequencing, we profiled samples from patients with self-limited, spontaneously regressing lymphomatoid papulosis (LyP) lesions of CD4+, CD8+, or T-cell receptor γδ (TCR-γδ)+ clonal phenotypes and compared the results with samples from patients with advanced-stage CTCL (aCTCL) variants, namely CD4+ mycosis fungoides (MF), CD8+ primary cutaneous aggressive epidermotropic CD8+ cytotoxic T-cell lymphoma, and TCR-γδ+ MF, that all led to a documented lethal disease outcome. Within T cells, transcriptomic differences between LyP and the aCTCL group were primarily found among malignant clones, with only relatively minor differences within the polyclonal T-cell infiltrates. When compared with all aCTCL diagnoses, LyP top clones consistently exhibited a hyperactivated cytotoxic phenotype, characterized by the enrichment of tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α), interleukin-2 (IL-2)/STAT5, interferon gamma, hypoxia, and complement activation pathways, irrespective of their CD4, CD8, or TCR-γδ lineage. In line, LyP lesions contained SPP1+ macrophages expressing M1-associated markers (IL1B, TNF, and IRF1), consistent with a cytotoxic, type 1-skewed immune microenvironment, that were largely absent across aCTCL diagnoses. LyP samples further expressed markers of vascular dysfunction and stress (C2CD4B, IL6, and CEBPD), corroborated by the morphological signs of lymphocytic vasculitis and necrosis in a subset of patients. Along with a signal of an insufficient coping response to hypoxia, these stromal reactions might be critical contributors to spontaneous lesion regression in LyP. Collectively, this study reveals mediators associated with the self-limited behavior of LyP lesions, which might be relevant for future immunomodulatory treatment strategies in CTCL.© 2026 American Society of Hematology. Published by Elsevier Inc. Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0), permitting only noncommercial, nonderivative use with attribution. All other rights reserved.
Thyroid hormones are central to regulating metabolism, growth, and development, yet their complex interactions with socioeconomic, metabolic, and genetic factors remain understudied in diverse populations. We compared thyroid profiles - free triiodothyronine (FT3), free thyroxine (FT4), and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) in Indian adolescents with anthropometric traits, metabolic markers, and socioeconomic status (SES). We observed that adolescents from higher SES backgrounds exhibited greater metabolic dysregulation, altered thyroid profiles, and abnormalities in lipid and adipokine levels. Subclinical (16.1%) and clinical hypothyroidism (1.1%) were found to be prevalent in this population but were not associated with obesity. Instead, they showed links with dyslipidemia and altered adipokine profiles. To investigate the genetic basis of thyroid traits, we conducted an exome-wide association study (ExWAS, N = 4324), and a two-staged genome-wide association study (GWAS, N = 4854). The ExWAS revealed two novel loci for TSH (GYS2 and CEP162) and fifteen novel loci for FT4, including ZNF467, P3H3, CRLF3, SPATA2L, MEFV, THNSL2, COL27A1, COL28A1, IGSF3, ZNF732, MOG, GABBR1, HPF1, LOC440563, and SPEG. The GWAS identified novel associations at near-genome-wide significance for TSH (ACTL7B) and FT4 (LINC00648, YTHDC1, and C2CD4B). We also replicated established associations in FOXE1 and IGFBP5. Our findings suggest that SES, metabolic health, and genetics jointly influence thyroid function in Indian adolescents. The identification of population-specific loci emphasizes the importance of ancestry-informed genetic studies and supports the development of precision interventions to enhance pediatric thyroid health.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Japan Society of Human Genetics.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) encompasses tumors arising in the colon (CC) and rectum (RC), often treated as a single disease despite emerging evidence of biological divergence. Understanding the molecular differences between CC and RC is critical for improving diagnosis, prognosis, and therapeutic strategies.We performed an integrated genomic and transcriptomic analysis of CC and RC data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) to investigate their degree of similarity and observed that these tumors present distinct molecular profiles, which suggest an evolution through divergent pathways. Comparative analyses included copy number alterations (CNAs), somatic mutations, driver gene prediction, differential gene expression, pathway enrichment, and survival analysis.Chromosomal analyses revealed that 43% of focal and 77% of large-scale CNAs were specific of CC, while 10.5% and 57% were specific of RC with 8% of mutant genes unique to CC and 0.18% to RC. CC and RC presented distinct profiles of gene mutations, with CC showing significantly higher tumor mutational burden (0.51 muts/Mb vs 0.28 muts/Mb in RC). Distinct mutational signatures were identified, with CC characterized by a higher frequency of PIK3CA, BRAF, and DNAH1 mutations, while RC showed enrichment for TP53 and NRAS mutations. Importantly, analysis of predicted non-canonical driver genes identified ACVR1B, LTBP4, SETD1A as CC-specific drivers and C4BPA, EHD1 as RC-specific drivers, underscoring divergent oncogenic mechanisms. However, the most substantial divergence was observed in transcriptomic profiling, with 56% and 33% of DEGs (in CC and RC, respectively) that were tumor-type specific. Notably, RC tumors segregated into two distinct transcriptional subtypes (Cluster 1 and Cluster 2), with Cluster 1 showed a more heterogeneous Consensus Molecular Subtypes (CMS) distribution, while Cluster 2 enriched in CMS4 (mesenchymal) and CMS3 (metabolic) consensus molecular subtypes. Accordingly, Gene Set Enrichment Analysis revealed CC-specific upregulation of Wnt, MYC, and mTOR signaling pathways, and RC-specific enrichment of GPCR and neuronal development pathways. On the other hand, pseudogene expression was significantly higher in CC, suggesting differential mechanisms of transcriptional dysregulation. Finally, we identified an RC-specific multigene survival signature as a prognostic model involving upregulation of C2CD4B, HSPD1P1, LINC01356, CBX3P9, GATA2-AS1 and downregulation of ATP5F1EP2, HSP90AB3P and SNRPFP1.Collectively, our findings provide robust molecular evidence that CC and RC follow divergent oncogenic pathways, emphasizing the need for site-specific biomarker development and therapeutic targeting in colorectal cancer.© 2025. The Author(s).
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most prevalent cancer globally, posing a significant challenge due to its high rate of metastasis. Approximately 20% of patients with CRC present with distant metastases at diagnosis, and over 50% develop metastases within five years. Accurate prediction of metastasis is crucial for improving survival outcomes in patients with CRC.This study introduces an innovative cost-sensitive fast correlation-based filter (CS-FCBF) algorithm for feature selection, integrated with machine learning techniques to predict metastatic CRC. The CS-FCBF algorithm effectively reduced the number of genomic features from 184 to 9 critical genes: CXCL9, C2CD4B, RGCC, GFI1, BEX2, CXCL3, FOXQ1, PBK, and PLAG1. The methodology combined in vitro, in vivo, and analysis of publicly available single-cell RNA-seq datasets to validate the findings.The application of the CS-FCBF algorithm led to a significant improvement in prediction model performance, with an average 21.16% increase in the area under the precision-recall curve. The nine identified genes hold potential as diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets for metastatic CRC.This study highlights the critical role of advanced feature selection methods, combined with machine learning, in addressing the challenge of class imbalance in medical diagnosis, particularly for CRC. Early detection of metastasis is vital, and the identified genes underscore their importance in the metastatic process of CRC. The methodology applied here offers valuable insights and paves the way for future research in other cancers or diseases that face similar diagnostic challenges.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
High glucose-induced endothelial dysfunction is an important pathological feature of diabetic vasculopathy. While genome-wide studies have identified an association between type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and increased expression of a C2 calcium-dependent domain containing 4B (C2CD4B), no study has yet explored the possible direct effect of C2CD4B on vascular function. Vascular reactivity studies were conducted using a pressure myograph, and nitric oxide and oxidative stress were assessed through difluorofluorescein diacetate and dihydroethidium, respectively. We demonstrate that high glucose upregulated both mRNA and protein expression of C2CD4B in mice mesenteric arteries in a time-dependent manner. Notably, the inhibition of C2CD4B expression by genetic knockdown efficiently prevented hyperglycemia-induced oxidative stress, endothelial dysfunction, and loss of nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability. Recombinant C2CD4B evoked endothelial dysfunction of mice mesenteric arteries, an effect associated with increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) and decreased NO production. In isolated human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), C2CD4B increased phosphorylation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) at the inhibitory site Thr495 and reduced eNOS dimerization. Pharmacological inhibitors of phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K), Akt, and PKCα effectively attenuated oxidative stress, NO reduction, impairment of endothelial function, and eNOS uncoupling induced by C2CD4B. These data demonstrate, for the first time, that C2CD4B exerts a direct effect on vascular endothelium via a phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt/PKCα-signaling pathway, providing a new perspective on C2CD4B as a promising therapeutic target for the prevention of oxidative stress in diabetes-induced endothelial dysfunction.
The interaction between leukocytes and cytokine-activated retinal endothelium is an initiating step in non-infectious uveitis involving the posterior eye, mediated by cell adhesion molecules. However, because cell adhesion molecules are required for immune surveillance, therapeutic interventions would ideally be employed indirectly. Using 28 primary human retinal endothelial cell isolates, this study sought to identify transcription factor targets for reducing levels of the key retinal endothelial cell adhesion molecule, intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1, and limiting leukocyte binding to the retinal endothelium. Five candidate transcription factors-C2CD4B, EGR3, FOSB, IRF1, and JUNB-were identified by differential expression analysis of a transcriptome generated from IL-1β- or TNF-α-stimulated human retinal endothelial cells, interpreted in the context of the published literature. Further filtering involved molecular studies: of the five candidates, C2CD4B and IRF1 consistently demonstrated extended induction in IL-1β- or TNF-α-activated retinal endothelial cells and demonstrated a significant decrease in both ICAM-1 transcript and ICAM-1 membrane-bound protein expression by cytokine-activated retinal endothelial cells following treatment with small interfering RNA. RNA interference of C2CD4B or IRF1 significantly reduced leukocyte binding in a majority of human retinal endothelial cell isolates stimulated by IL-1β or TNF-α. Our observations suggest that the transcription factors C2CD4B and IRF1 may be potential drug targets for limiting leukocyte-retinal endothelial cell interactions in non-infectious uveitis involving the posterior eye.
The mRNA levels of C2CD4A and C2CD4B were dysregulation in lung cancer (LC). We aimed to evaluate the role of C2CD4A/B variants in LC susceptibility.There were 710 cases with LC and 710 healthy controls enrolled in the study. The genotyping of twelve variants in C2CD4A/B was carried out by Agena MassARRAY system. Odds ratios (ORs) were calculated by logistic regression analysis to assess the relationship between these variants and LC predisposition.Rs8037894 (OR = 0.81, p = 0.005), rs7172432 (OR = 0.83, p = 0.013), rs11856307 (OR = 0.86, p = 0.043), and rs1436953 (OR = 0.79, p = 0.002) were related to the reduced risk of LC. Besides, the relation of rs7172432 with LC risk in subjects aged > 60 years was observed. Rs4502156 conferred to the increased LC risk, while rs1436953 was associated with the lower susceptibility to LC among males. Rs731820, rs4502156, rs11071657, rs7172432, and rs11856307 contributed to the predisposition of LC among subjects with BMI > 24 kg/m2, while rs7495253 was associated with an increased risk of LC in subjects with BMI ≤ 24 kg/m2. The increased LC risk was found in rs4502156, while the protective risk effect of rs8037894, rs7172432, rs11856307, and rs1436953 on the occurrence of LC was observed in smokers and non-drinkers. Moreover, rs7495253 and rs7495931 had a higher risk of lymphatic metastasis. Rs1436953 was related to the reduced risk of lung adenocarcinoma, while rs4502156, rs8037894, rs7172432, rs11856307, and rs1436953 were related to the risk of small cell carcinoma.Our results first display that C2CD4A/B polymorphisms served as protective factors for LC predisposition in a Chinese Han population. These findings could provide new biological insight into the understanding of C2CD4A/B genes on LC pathogenesis.© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Variants close to the VPS13C/C2CD4A/C2CD4B locus are associated with altered risk of type 2 diabetes in genome-wide association studies. While previous functional work has suggested roles for VPS13C and C2CD4A in disease development, none has explored the role of C2CD4B.CRISPR/Cas9-induced global C2cd4b-knockout mice and zebrafish larvae with c2cd4a deletion were used to study the role of this gene in glucose homeostasis. C2 calcium dependent domain containing protein (C2CD)4A and C2CD4B constructs tagged with FLAG or green fluorescent protein were generated to investigate subcellular dynamics using confocal or near-field microscopy and to identify interacting partners by mass spectrometry.Systemic inactivation of C2cd4b in mice led to marked, but highly sexually dimorphic changes in body weight and glucose homeostasis. Female C2cd4b mice displayed unchanged body weight compared with control littermates, but abnormal glucose tolerance (AUC, p = 0.01) and defective in vivo, but not in vitro, insulin secretion (p = 0.02). This was associated with a marked decrease in follicle-stimulating hormone levels as compared with wild-type (WT) littermates (p = 0.003). In sharp contrast, male C2cd4b null mice displayed essentially normal glucose tolerance but an increase in body weight (p < 0.001) and fasting blood glucose (p = 0.003) after maintenance on a high-fat and -sucrose diet vs WT littermates. No metabolic disturbances were observed after global inactivation of C2cd4a in mice, or in pancreatic beta cell function at larval stages in C2cd4a null zebrafish. Fasting blood glucose levels were also unaltered in adult C2cd4a-null fish. C2CD4B and C2CD4A were partially localised to the plasma membrane, with the latter under the control of intracellular Ca2+. Binding partners for both included secretory-granule-localised PTPRN2/phogrin.Our studies suggest that C2cd4b may act centrally in the pituitary to influence sex-dependent circuits that control pancreatic beta cell function and glucose tolerance in rodents. However, the absence of sexual dimorphism in the impact of diabetes risk variants argues for additional roles for C2CD4A or VPS13C in the control of glucose homeostasis in humans.The datasets generated and/or analysed during the current study are available in the Biorxiv repository ( www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.05.18.099200v1 ). RNA-Seq (GSE152576) and proteomics (PXD021597) data have been deposited to GEO ( www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE152576 ) and ProteomeXchange ( www.ebi.ac.uk/pride/archive/projects/PXD021597 ) repositories, respectively.
Adrenergic stimulation of brown adipocytes induces a robust detachment of mitochondria from lipid droplets (LD), which is followed by lipolysis and lipid catabolism. However, the signals inducing mitochondria attachment or detachment, and their role in lipid metabolism, remain unknown. Here, we reconstituted mitochondria-LD interaction in brown adipocyte tissue (BAT) ex vivo. We find that removal of mitochondria from lipid droplets permits higher lipolytic activity of recombinant lipases. Testing the effect of thermogenic secondary messengers and metabolites on attachment and detachment identified elevated mitochondrial matrix calcium as a potent inducer of detachment. Further, deletion of the mitochondrial sodium/calcium exchanger, NCLX, resulted in reduced attachment and increased detachment, while activation of NCLX increased attachment. We find that elevated matrix calcium causes detachment by inducing architectural transformation of peridroplet mitochondria (PDM) from their typical LD-surface-bound crescent shape into a round shape. PDE2A inhibition activates NCLX and increases PDM content in BAT in vitro and in vivo. We conclude that a surge in mitochondrial matrix calcium ions serves as a potent signal to induce mitochondrial detachment from lipid droplets, thereby facilitating lipolysis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Metabolic reprogramming is closely linked to tumor proliferation, invasion, and immune escape. Despite its central role in amino acid metabolism, the regulatory mechanisms of asparagine metabolism in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) progression remain poorly characterized. Rather than focusing on canonical metabolic genes, prognostic markers were identified from co-expression modules associated with asparagine metabolism signatures. Using the TCGA database and asparagine metabolism-related gene sets, a prognostic risk-scoring model was developed through differential expression analysis, univariate Cox regression, and the LASSO algorithm and externally validated with the GEO dataset (GSE14620). Survival analysis, ROC curve evaluation, nomogram construction, scRNA-seq, GSEA, and drug sensitivity analysis were performed to systematically delineate the molecular mechanisms by which asparagine metabolism drives HCC progression. A three-gene signature comprising BOP1, SAC3D1, and PDE2A effectively stratified patients into high- and low-risk groups. High-risk patients exhibited markedly poorer overall survival, enrichment in tumor proliferation-associated pathways, increased tumor purity, reduced immune cell infiltration, and a substantially higher TP53 mutation rate (38% vs. 13%). In contrast, the low-risk group showed enrichment in pathways linked to hepatoblastoma suppression and liver function, alongside improved predicted response to immunotherapy. Single-cell analysis identified NK cells and endothelial cells as central mediators of asparagine metabolism-driven HCC progression, with BOP1, SAC3D1, and PDE2A displaying dynamic expression patterns during differentiation. Furthermore, the high-risk group was predicted to be more sensitive to chemotherapeutics such as cyclophosphamide and 5-fluorouracil. These findings highlight a potential interplay between nitrogen metabolism and asparagine metabolism in HCC and suggest mechanisms by which these pathways may influence NK cell and endothelial cell function to promote disease progression. This study establishes a novel prognostic model and identifies potential chemotherapeutic vulnerabilities in high-risk patients, warranting further experimental and clinical validation.
Suicide is a complex public health challenge. Although psychosocial factors are important, molecular dysregulations in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) have been implicated in suicidal behavior.Six post-mortem PFC transcriptomic datasets from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) were analyzed to investigate the molecular basis of suicide, a major public health problem whose underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. After harmonizing microarray and sequencing data from 248 individuals younger than 60 years, both global and diagnosis-stratified meta-analyses were performed, focusing on major depressive disorder (MDD) and bipolar disorder (BPD).In the overall comparison between suicide cases and controls, 10 nominally differentially expressed genes were identified, although none remained significant after multiple-testing correction. In the MDD-stratified analysis, four genes survived false discovery rate (FDR) correction (HRH3, PDE2A, NET1, and RHBDF2) and were associated with stress-related pathways, cyclic nucleotide signaling, and synaptic organization. No significant genes were identified in the bipolar disorder subgroup.These findings suggest that suicide-related transcriptomic alterations in the PFC are not uniform or clearly transdiagnostic, but may be partly shaped by the underlying psychiatric diagnosis, with a more clearly detectable signal in cases with MDD. This study provides a harmonized, bias-aware framework for integrating heterogeneous post-mortem transcriptomic datasets; however, the results should be interpreted as hypothesis-generating candidate signals rather than as definitive biomarkers, and require independent replication and functional validation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Aldosterone plays a key role in blood pressure and volume regulation. Enhanced aldosterone secretion contributes to cardiovascular and renal diseases. Therefore, inhibitors of aldosterone receptors and synthase are essential drugs for the treatment of hypertension and heart failure. Both adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and angiotensin II (AngII) acutely increase aldosterone release via cAMP and Ca2+-signalling, respectively. Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) prevents excessive aldosterone secretion from adrenal zona glomerulosa (ZG) cells. ANP reduces ACTH-stimulated aldosterone by enhancing cAMP degradation through cGMP-stimulated phosphodiesterase (PDE2A). It is not known whether PDE2A also participates in counteracting AngII-induced aldosterone secretion.In this study, we established CRISPR/Cas9 based knockdown of PDE2A in primary ZG cells and measured aldosterone release and cAMP/protein kinase A (PKA) activity using ELISA and Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET) biosensors, respectively.We first showed that inhibition of AngII-stimulated aldosterone by ANP is mediated by cGMP independently of AngII-stimulated Ca2+-transients. However, knockdown of PDE2A completely abolished the inhibitory effect of the ANP/cGMP pathway on AngII-stimulated aldosterone, suggesting a cAMP-dependent mechanism. Indeed, depletion of intracellular cAMP by PDE4 overexpression or by adenylyl cyclase inhibition prevented AngII-stimulated aldosterone. Strikingly, AngII acutely stimulated Ca2+-activated adenylyl cyclase to increase cAMP levels and PKA activity, which were almost completely blocked by ANP via PDE2A.ANP/cGMP signalling effectively counteracts acute AngII-induced aldosterone secretion by activating PDE2A, which degrades AngII-stimulated cAMP and prevents PKA activation. This novel signalling pathway could be a target for new aldosterone-reducing drugs.© 2026 The Author(s). British Journal of Pharmacology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Pharmacological Society.
Endothelial dysfunction is an early event in atherosclerosis development and is centrally linked with insufficient endothelial NO production. However, chronically increased NO levels, including NO from other cellular sources, may induce endothelial dysfunction. Here, we studied how chronically elevated NO production from erythrocytes, achieved by genetic deletion of ARG1 (arginase-1), impacts smooth muscle cell (SMC) lipid accumulation and atherosclerosis progression.Primary aortic SMCs from mice lacking ARG1 in red blood cell (RBC.ARG1-knockout [KO]) were subjected to RNA-sequencing, lipidomic, metabolic, and molecular analyses; atherosclerosis burden was quantified en face and at the aortic root.Increased lipid droplet formation in SMCs from RBC.ARG1-KO mice was observed using brightfield and electron microscopy and confirmed by Oil Red O and boron-dipyrromethene lipid dye staining. RNA sequencing revealed the simultaneous overexpression of genes regulating lipid uptake (Cd36), catabolism (Cpt1a), and de novo lipogenesis (Acaca, Fasn [Fatty acid synthase]) in RBC.ARG1-KO SMCs, and inhibiting fatty acid translocase (CD36), ACC (acetyl-CoA [coenzyme A] carboxylase), or fatty acid synthase prevented the lipid accumulation in RBC.ARG1-KO SMCs. Increased expression of CD36 downstream of NO and overactivated sGC (soluble guanylyl cyclase)-cyclic guanosine monophosphate signaling was identified as a mediator of increased lipid uptake in RBC.ARG1-KO SMCs. Loss of PDE (phosphodiesterase) 2A, coupling cyclic guanosine monophosphate with cyclic adenosine monophosphate and PKA (protein kinase A) activation, was also observed, resulting in AMPK (5' AMP-activated protein kinase) inhibition, thus unlocking acetyl-CoA carboxylase, catalyzing the rate-limiting step in fatty acid synthesis. Inhibiting PDE2A recapitulated the RBC.ARG1-KO SMC phenotype, while inhibiting PKA or ATP generation from cyclic adenosine monophosphate abrogated the lipid droplet accumulation in RBC.ARG1-KO SMCs. Increased Oil Red O-positive aortic atherosclerosis burden in hypercholesterolemic apolipoprotein E-deficient RBC.ARG1-KO mice was confirmed by histology and elevated levels of polyunsaturated long-chain cholesterol esters in aortic atheroma by mass spectrometry lipidomics.Our findings show the importance of erythrocyte-derived NO for metabolically reprogramming SMCs toward increased fatty acid uptake and lipogenesis, and identify PDE2A as a molecular switch linking chronically activated NO signaling with lipid accumulation and atheroma progression.
Diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM) results in high mortality with surprisingly rare therapeutic approaches. Anacardic acid (AA) shows broad pharmacological properties, but its effect on DCM was unknown. This study aims to investigate the effect and molecular action of AA on DCM. KKAy mice, a model of spontaneous type 2 diabetes, were fed a high-fat diet, and were subsequently administered with AA by gavage at 5 mg/kg for 14 weeks. AA attenuated cardiac dysfunction, pathological injuries, inflammation, fibrosis, oxidative stress, and apoptosis. Mechanistically, AA was enriched in the colon, but not serum and heart, improving colonic histopathological scores, enhancing colonic tight junction protein expression and reducing serum lipopolysaccharide level, suggesting colonic epithelial barrier integrity (CEBI) as a key target of AA. In vitro experiment employed high glucose and palmitic acid-challenged colonic epithelial cells as a cell model of CEBI, showing that AA at 5 µmol/L reversed the impaired expression of tight junction proteins. RNA-sequencing identified Pde2a gene to be significantly inhibited by AA. Lentivirus-induced Pde2a overexpression in colonic epithelial cells abolished the protective effect of AA on CEBI. The present study reports that AA enhances CEBI to attenuate DCM, possibly through inhibiting colonic epithelial expression of Pde2a.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41922217
BackgroundPhysical exercise shows neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory effects in Alzheimer's disease (AD) models, but whether it modulates neuroinflammation through regulation of peripheral T-cell activity is still unresolved.ObjectiveThe present study aimed to explore the mechanisms by which aerobic exercise regulates peripheral T cell-mediated immune responses and their potential contribution to neuroinflammation in AD.MethodsMale wild-type mice and APP/PS1 transgenic mice were divided into four groups: wild-type sedentary mice (WT-SE) group, wild-type exercise group (WT-EX), APP/PS1 transgenic AD sedentary mice (AD-SE) group, and APP/PS1 transgenic AD exercise mice (AD-EX) group. The sedentary groups received no exercise training, while the exercise groups underwent a 3-month treadmill aerobic exercise intervention. At the end of the intervention, T lymphocytes were isolated from spleens. Label-free proteomics combined with LC-MS/MS was used to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and perform functional and pathway enrichment analyses. Differentially expressed protein-coding genes were validated at the mRNA level using RT-qPCR.ResultsA total of 3399 proteins were quantified across the four groups. Applying a threshold of |log2 fold change| > 0.67 and q-value < 0.05, 913 DEPs were identified. These DEPs were significantly enriched in biological processes including immune system processes, protein-containing complexes, and structural molecule activity, as well as signaling pathways including AD, TGF-β, and apoptosis.ConclusionsOverall, HSP90AB1, HSP90AA1, BAG5, DNAJC8, CTSD, and ANXA1 may play a role in peripheral T-cell immune dysregulation in AD, with potential implications for central neuroinflammation. Furthermore, the beneficial effects of aerobic exercise on AD-related peripheral immune alterations, and its potential modulation of neuroinflammation, may be associated with expression changes in DEPs including Ppp2r1b, Pde2a, Casp8, Apaf-1, Dnajb11, and Dnajc13.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a major cause of cancer-related morbidity and mortality, with high recurrence rates and limited treatment options for metastatic disease. The tumor microenvironment (TME) and metabolic reprogramming are critical drivers of CRC progression, influencing immune responses, therapeutic resistance, and patient outcomes.This study explores the interplay between metabolic reprogramming and the TME in CRC using transcriptomic data and bioinformatics approaches to identify metabolically and microenvironmentally defined CRC subtypes and candidate biomarkers.Gene expression and clinical data were obtained from TCGA colorectal adenocarcinoma (COAD), rectal adenocarcinoma (READ), and six GEO CRC datasets. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was performed to validate PDE2A and CKMT2 expression in CRC tissues. Bioinformatic analyses were conducted using R software v4.0.3.We identified 220 TME- and 40 metabolism-related differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in CRC. Consensus clustering of these TMET genes revealed two distinct subtypes: Cluster 1 (C1), associated with poorer survival, an immune-mesenchymal phenotype, and frequent mutations in TTN and BRAF, and Cluster 2 (C2), characterized by enriched TP53 and APC mutations, classic tumor suppressor pathway activation, and higher genomic instability. Metabolically, C1 was characterized by lipid metabolism and extracellular matrix remodeling, whereas C2 showed enrichment of nucleotide and amino acid metabolism linked to cell cycle progression and DNA repair. Single-cell RNA sequencing confirmed these distinctions, revealing that C1-upregulated genes were predominantly expressed in immune and stromal compartments, whereas C2-upregulated genes were enriched in epithelial and malignant cells. PDE2A, primarily expressed by endothelial cells, was identified as a metabolic biomarker of C1, while CKMT2, expressed in malignant cells, defined C2. These genes serve as key metabolic markers distinguishing CRC subtypes based on molecular heterogeneity and prognosis.PDE2A and CKMT2 were identified as critical metabolic biomarkers associated with distinct CRC subtypes and TME compositions. These findings highlight the intricate relationship between metabolic reprogramming, the tumor microenvironment, and tumor heterogeneity, providing insights into CRC molecular subtypes and their prognostic significance.Copyright © 2026 Fu, Lai, Huang, Liu and Liao.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41816209 is a review article
Dysregulation of brain cholesterol homeostasis is increasingly recognized as a critical driver of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. G protein-coupled receptor 146 (GPR146) has emerged as a pivotal regulator of systemic cholesterol metabolism; however, its role in the central nervous system and AD remains elusive. Here, we report that GPR146 deficiency in mice modulates ERK/PKA signaling without affecting baseline physiology or general behavior. Following intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of amyloid-β (Aβ)42 oligomers, GPR146 was associated with altered Aβ42-evoked ERK/PKA/Akt signaling both in vivo and in vitro. Mechanistically, Gpr146 ablation potentiated microglial Aβ phagocytosis, which correlated with the transcriptional upregulation of phagocytic receptors, including TREM2, GPR34, P2Y6, and CR3, alongside increased expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6). Moreover, GPR146 deficiency was linked to elevated levels of blood-brain barrier (BBB)-associated markers Cldn-5 and Glut-1 protein levels, while attenuating Aβ‑induced inflammatory responses in brain endothelial cells. At the metabolic level, GPR146 knockout modulated the expression of key enzymes governing glucose (GLUT1, GLUT3, G6PD, PFK, HK) and lipid (HMGCS1, ACACA, FASN, SCD1) metabolism and markedly reduced Aβ‑elicited lipid droplet accumulation in the cortex and hippocampus. Collectively, our findings establish GPR146 as a novel neurometabolic regulator whose deficiency correlates with enhanced Aβ phagocytosis, maintenance of BBB-associated proteins, and altered cerebral metabolism, thereby presenting a potential therapeutic axis for early AD intervention.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Asymmetrical dimethylarginine (ADMA) is an endogenous inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase (NOS), whereas dimethylaminohydrolase 1 (DDAH1) is primarily responsible for its metabolism. However, the roles of DDAH1 in cerebrovascular regulation are poorly understood. Furthermore, despite evidence that elevated ADMA levels are associated with worse ischaemic stroke outcomes, there is a paucity of data showing causality. Therefore, this study aimed to address these knowledge gaps.We examined the effect of an inhibitor of DDAH1 (L-257) on endothelial-nitric oxide-dependent vasodilator responses of mouse middle cerebral arteries (MCA), permeability of immortalised human cerebral endothelial cells and angiogenic activity of MCA. To test for a causal relationship between ADMA and stroke pathogenesis, we examined the effect of L-257 at a concentration that did not alter cardiovascular haemodynamics on infarct volume and functional outcomes in mice after MCA occlusion (MCAo).In vitro, L-257 impaired vasodilator responses of MCA (Rmax: ~50%), increased endothelial permeability (~1.5-fold) and impaired endothelial outgrowth of MCA (~40%). In vivo, L-257 (30 mg·kg-1) increased ADMA levels without affecting haemodynamics and resulted in larger infarcts and greater deficits after 40-min transient MCAo (tMCAo). However, when mice were subjected to longer MCAo periods (65-min tMCAo or permanent MCAo) to generate moderate/severe insults, L-257 did not significantly affect outcomes.DDAH1 contributes to the regulation of cerebrovascular endothelial-nitric oxide-regulated physiological processes in vitro. Furthermore, we provide direct evidence linking elevated ADMA levels and stroke pathogenesis; however, this relationship may be dependent on initial stroke severity.© 2026 The Author(s). British Journal of Pharmacology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Pharmacological Society.
Drug resistance and poor clinical outcomes in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) necessitate robust biomarkers for personalized therapy. Glycolysis reprogramming is a hallmark of cancer, but its clinical utility remains incompletely defined.We integrated TCGA and GEO transcriptomic data with Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO), and multivariate Cox regression to construct a glycolysis-related prognostic signature. A nomogram combining the risk score with clinicopathological factors was developed. Drug sensitivity was predicted using the pRRophetic algorithm. qRT-PCR and xenograft models using A549 and cisplatin-resistant A549/DDP cells validated the expression of candidate genes.Patients stratified by glycolysis-related risk scores exhibited significantly distinct survival outcomes, and the glycolysis-based signature functioned as an independent prognostic factor for overall survival in LUAD. The nomogram demonstrated robust predictive performance and effectively estimated patient sensitivity to three commonly used conventional chemotherapeutic agents. In vitro and in vivo studies using A549 cells and their cisplatin-resistant derivative A549/DDP revealed aberrant expression of VIPR1, ADRB2, RXFP1, PDGFB, WNT3A, and SPRY1 in the resistant cell line and in corresponding xenograft tumor tissues. These findings suggest that glycolytic activity is closely associated with both drug resistance and clinical prognosis in LUAD.This study identifies a glycolysis-related gene signature with demonstrable utility for prognostic stratification and therapeutic response prediction in LUAD. The proposed integrative model holds promise for enhancing precision treatment decision-making through optimized risk assessment and rational selection of chemotherapeutic regimens.Copyright © 2026 Zheng, Liu, Li, Zhang, Geng, Chen, Zhou, Fan, Wang, Zhang and Cao.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental disorder. Neuroinflammation and bloodbrain barrier (BBB) dysfunction have role in the pathophysiology of ASD. Trigonelline (TRI) exerted neuroprotective effects. We aimed to investigate TRI's effects on autistic phenotype, gene expression of tight junction proteins associated with BBB integrity, neuroinflammation and histopathological changes in the hippocampus in valproic acid (VPA) - induced autism in rats.Pregnant Wistar rats received single subcutaneous injection of VPA (600mg/kg) on day 12 of gestation. Animals were treated with normal saline or TRI for one week. Repetitive behaviours, anxiety-like behaviour, memory function, and social interactions were assessed. The thickness and dark neurons of the CA1 and CA3 regions of hippocampus were examined. The inflammatory genes, including Tlr4, Tnf-α, and Il-1β, along with claudins (Cldn -3, Cldn-5, and Cldn-12), were measured in the hippocampus.TRI significantly attenuated autistic behaviors. TRI reduced the expression of inflammatory markers and modulated the expression of claudins. TRI increased the thickness and decreased the number of dark neurons in the CA1 and CA3 regions.TRI reduced autistic behaviours probably through attenuation of neuroinflammation, preservation of the hippocampus, and modulation of gene expressions of tight junction proteins associated with the BBB permeability.
The intrinsic cardiac nervous system (ICNS) is a key node in heart-brain communication and an emerging target for cardiac therapy, yet its physiological importance and functional organization remain poorly understood. Here, we show that the ICNS is essential for cardiac performance and survival across conditions. Using integrated genetic and imaging approaches in mice, we identify two molecularly distinct intrinsic cardiac neuron (ICN) subtypes that differ in extrinsic inputs, projection architectures, and physiological roles. Npy⁺ ICNs preferentially receive vagal input and mediate parasympathetic control of heart rate and coronary perfusion, and their ablation leads to fatal cardiac failure. By contrast, Ddah1⁺ ICNs receive sympathetic input and are required to preserve electrical stability and prevent sudden cardiac arrest under extreme physiological or psychological stress, with their activation providing cardioprotection. Together, these findings establish the ICNS as a critical regulator of cardiac function, providing a framework for precise, cell-type-targeted neuromodulatory therapies.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cervical cancer remains a major cause of cancer-related mortality in women, and there is limited understanding of strand-specific miRNA regulation. This study investigated the differential regulatory roles of miR-21-5p and miR-21-3p and their associated gene networks using an integrative computational approach. A total of 664 experimentally validated targets for miR-21-5p and 3663 for miR-21-3p were identified, with 628 and 99 strand-specific targets, respectively, and five overlapping genes (SPRY1, STAT3, CLIP4, SMAD7, and PPARA). Expression analysis using TCGA-CESC data demonstrated consistent upregulation of miR-21 across all clinical subgroups, independent of age, stage, and histological subtypes. Protein-protein interaction analysis revealed a dense network for miR-21-5p (559 nodes, 3252 edges) compared to that for miR-21-3p (4 nodes, 133 edges), indicating a broader regulatory influence of the 5p strand. Five hub genes (TP53, PTEN, EGFR, STAT3, and CCND1) were identified, with PTEN and EGFR common to both strands. Differential expression analysis showed downregulation of PTEN and upregulation of CCND1, EGFR (p = 1.83 × 10⁻5), STAT3, and TP53 in the tumor tissues. Only EGFR demonstrated a significant association with overall survival, while the others require further validation. Functional enrichment analysis highlighted pathways related to cell cycle regulation, apoptosis, and oncogenic signaling. Molecular docking further identified potential drug candidates with favorable binding affinities for the key hub proteins. These findings suggest a potential regulatory role for miR-21 strands and highlight PTEN and EGFR as central nodes, providing a computational framework for prioritizing potential therapeutic targets in cervical cancer.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Avian coccidiosis, caused by Eimeria spp., is a major constraint on global poultry production, and mixed-species infections-particularly Eimeria tenella and Eimeria acervulina-are common and more pathogenic in the broiler breeding. Rising concerns over anticoccidial drug resistance and residues have stimulated interest in probiotics as alternative or complementary control strategies. This study evaluated the protective efficacy of Lactobacillus plantarum BS22 (LP-BS22), a chicken-derived strain with confirmed in vitro antimicrobial activity and stability, against this clinically prevalent mixed infection. Seventy-two broiler chickens were randomly assigned to four groups: uninfected control (CG), probiotic control (LP-BS22), co-infected model (DIG), and probiotic-treated co-infected group (LP-BS22+DIG). Efficacy was assessed via growth performance, oocyst output, lesion scoring, and histopathology. To elucidate the underlying mechanism, the expressions of intestinal tight junction (TJ)-related zonula occluden-1 (ZO-1) and claudin 5 (CLDN5) proteins as well as pro-inflammatory (interleukin [IL]-6) and regulatory (IL-10 and IL-22) cytokines were also quantified. The results demonstrated that prophylactic administration of LP-BS22 significantly mitigated growth retardation, reduced fecal oocyst shedding, and lowered intestinal lesion scores compared to the untreated DIG group (P < 0.05). Histologically, the probiotic treatment alleviated intestinal villus atrophy and crypt hyperplasia. Mechanistically, LP-BS22 preserved intestinal barrier integrity by preventing the downregulation of ZO-1 and CLDN5; furthermore, the probiotic modulated the immune response by suppressing pro-inflammatory IL-6 while upregulating regulatory IL-10 and the tissue-repair cytokine IL-22 (P < 0.05). The calculated anticoccidial index (ACI) ranged from 126.76 to 133.46, classifying the efficacy as moderate. These findings indicated that LP-BS22 conferred protection against mixed Eimeria infections by enhancing mucosal barrier function and regulating inflammation, positioning it as a promising sustainable strategy for coccidiosis control in broiler production.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Renal dysfunction is a frequent and life-threatening complication of advanced cirrhosis and is particularly common in acute-on-chronic liver failure (ACLF), where it is associated with high mortality and poor clinical outcomes. This study aimed to (1) elucidate the role of the renal asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA)-dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase (DDAH)-endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) axis in cirrhosis ± superimposed inflammation (mimicking ACLF) with renal dysfunction, and (2) evaluate the effects of CC on this pathway.Male Wistar rats were administered carbon tetrachloride (15% v/v in corn oil, 0.5 mL/kg, twice weekly for 14 weeks) to induce cirrhosis with renal dysfunction. After 14 weeks, rats were randomized to receive CC (8 mg/kg orally for 2 weeks) before an acute lipopolysaccharide (LPS) challenge. All animals were sacrificed at week 16.CCl4-induced cirrhotic rats showed decreased mean arterial pressure (MAP), renal blood flow (RBF), and increased renal vascular resistance (RVR), and elevated kidney injury markers neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin, blood urea nitrogen , and kidney injury molecule-1 along with heightened renal inflammation. Acute LPS administration further exacerbated these abnormalities. CC treatment markedly reduced renal injury and inflammatory markers in cirrhotic ± LPS-challenged rats, although MAP, RBF, and RVR remained unchanged. In ACLF rats with renal dysfunction, CC significantly lowered renal ADMA levels and increased phosphorylated eNOS and DDAH-1 expression, while DDAH-2 expression decreased. CC also restored renal nitric oxide (NO) levels, enhanced antioxidant enzyme activity, and reduced oxidative stress.This study provides the first evidence that CC enhances renal NO bioavailability by upregulating DDAH-1 and eNOS expression and reducing ADMA accumulation, thereby improving renal endothelial function in cirrhosis with renal dysfunction. Targeting DDAH-1-mediated NO restoration may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for managing renal dysfunction in cirrhosis.© 2026 Indian National Association for Study of the Liver. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
Probiotics have gained attention as alternatives to antibiotic growth promoters in broiler production due to their ability to support gut health, immune function, and disease resistance. Bacterial chondronecrosis with osteomyelitis (BCO) is a major cause of lameness in broiler chickens and is commonly associated with bacterial translocation from the gastrointestinal tract. Strategies that improve intestinal integrity and host responses may help mitigate this condition. This study evaluated the efficacy of a probiotic program comprising an Enterococcus faecium-based spray (2 × 10⁹ CFU/bird at hatch) and a triple-strain Bacillus-based feed additive (B. subtilis 597, B. subtilis 600, and B. amyloliquefaciens 516 at 500 g/t feed from day 1 to 56), applied alone or in combination. A wire-flooring challenge model was used to simulate BCO transmission. A total of 1,560 Cobb 500 broilers were randomly assigned to four treatment groups: NC (negative control, 6 replicate pens), GalliPro® Hatch (E. faecium spray only, 6 replicate pens), GalliPro® Fit (Bacillus-based feed supplement only, 6 replicate pens), and Hatch/Fit (combined treatment, 6 replicate pens). Two additional wire-floor seeder pens served as the infection source for the BCO challenge. Tight junction gene expression (CLDN1, CLDN5, OCLN, ZO-1, and ZO-2) was assessed in the ileum and trachea at d 7, 28, and 56, along with serum IgM, IgA, and serotonin concentrations. Probiotic supplementation significantly influenced ileal gene expression, with significant effects of treatment, age, and treatment × age interaction for selected tight junction genes (P < 0.05). OCLN and ZO-1 were upregulated at d 7 (P< 0.001), followed by sustained increases at d 56, particularly in the Hatch/Fit group (p < 0.05). Tracheal responses were variable. Plasma IgA concentrations increased with age (P < 0.001), reflecting normal immune maturation. Notably, serum serotonin concentrations were markedly elevated in the Hatch/Fit group, indicating microbiota-driven modulation of the gut-brain axis. Bacterial isolation identified a polymicrobial profile dominated by Staphylococcus spp. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that combined probiotic supplementation modulated tight junction gene expression and serum serotonin concentrations in BCO-challenged broilers. These results support evaluation of combined probiotic strategies in commercial production systems.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The overexpression of dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase 1 (DDAH1) and 2 (DDAH2) has been associated with several types of cancer. Specifically, DDAH1 has been shown to play a critical role in the establishment of a vascular network by tumour cells, vasculogenic mimicry (VM), in triple negative breast cancer (TNBC). In turn, VM favours TNBC progression and is associated with poor patient prognosis. DDAH1 is well characterised in its capacity to metabolise asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA), an endogenous nitric oxide synthase inhibitor. By contrast, DDAH2 is incapable of metabolising ADMA, and its ADMA-independent functions and role in TNBC are unknown. In an in vitro MDA-MB-231 TNBC cell model, CRISPR-Cas9 knockout and siRNA knockdown of either DDAH1 or DDAH2 significantly reduced VM. This effect was accompanied by a significant reduction in proliferation, migration, invasion, and Vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A) secretion. These results suggest ADMA-independent mechanisms for DDAH2 in the occurrence of VM and identify DDAH2 as a novel therapeutic target in TNBC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
The apolipoprotein E ε4 (APOE ε4) allele confers the greatest genetic risk for sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD).To identify APOE ε4-associated metabolic factors related to AD risk and to provide preliminary insights into their biological and nutritional context.We leveraged multi-omics analyses across two independent cohorts to characterize biomarkers associated with AD. The effects of metabolite × APOE ε4 interactions were tested on incident AD and the ε4-specific metabolic signatures were pinpointed. Multimodal analyses were used to test the underlying mechanisms, including neuroimaging, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and PET biomarkers within the A/T/N framework, as well as plasma proteomics combined with bioinformatics enrichment analyses.Across both cohorts, valine emerged as the only metabolite associated with a reduced risk of incident AD specifically among APOE ε4 carriers (P < 0.005). Significant interaction effects between valine and APOE ε4 were detected in both cohorts (P for meta-analyses < 0.005). Higher levels of valine were associated with greater total white matter and posterior cingulate cortex volumes, as well as with lower levels of CSF tau proteins. Higher valine levels also predicted a slower decline in FDG-PET metabolism. No association was found between valine and Aβ. Mediation analyses of plasma proteomic data suggested statistically significant mediation effects involving GFAP, NEFL, and APOE (P < 2 × 10-16).Valine is a metabolite associated with lower AD risk in APOE ε4 carriers, with potential associations with tau pathology, neurodegeneration, and neuroinflammation-related processes. As this was an observational study, causality cannot be inferred.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Low-carbohydrate and low-fat diets (LCDs and LFDs) are promoted for cardiometabolic prevention.This study examined associations of LCDs and LFDs with incident dementia and evaluated modification by genetic susceptibility.We included 5301 dementia-free adults aged ≥55 years from the Health and Retirement Study. Overall LCD and LFD indices were constructed based on macronutrient composition rankings assessed using a food frequency questionnaire in 2013-2014. Plant-based, animal-based, healthy, and unhealthy sub-scores were derived to characterize macronutrient sources and quality. Incident dementia was defined using the Langa-Weir algorithm through 2022. Genetic susceptibility was assessed using APOE genotype and Alzheimer disease polygenic risk score (AD-PRS). Cox models estimated hazard ratios (HRs).During the 9-year follow-up, 506 participants developed dementia. Greater LCD score was associated with lower dementia risk (HR per SD increment 0.90, 95% CI, 0.82, 0.99), whereas an overall LFD was not (1.05, 95% CI, 0.96, 1.15). Plant-based and healthy LCDs showed stronger inverse associations (0.85, 95% CI, 0.78, 0.94 and 0.82, 95% CI, 0.74, 0.90), while higher animal-based (1.10; 95% CI, 1.00, 1.20) and unhealthy LFDs (1.13; 95% CI, 1.04, 1.24) were linked to higher dementia risk. Associations were consistent across APOE genotype and AD-PRS strata. Higher plant-based and healthy LCDs were also associated with better global and domain-specific cognitive performance.Adherence to LCDs, particularly plant-based and higher-quality LCDs, was associated with lower dementia risk, consistently across genetic susceptibility strata. These findings underscored the importance of macronutrient quality, in addition to quantity, in promoting cognitive health.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Neuroimaging with [18F]FDG PET can support the diagnosis of Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB), but it remains unclear how genetic factors influence metabolic phenotypes.To determine whether GBA1 and APOE ε4 status are associated with diverging [18F]FDG PET metabolic patterns in DLB.We analyzed [18F]FDG PET scans from 43 patients with DLB stratified by GBA1 and APOE ε4 status, and 35 from healthy subjects. Analyses included the cingulate island sign (CIS), regions of interest, SSM/PCA disease patterns, and a machine learning multi-class model. We evaluated the similarity of the DLB patient scans in our cohort with respect to typical DLB, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD)-like patterns.APOE ε4 status mainly influenced the CIS, with APOE ε4-negative patients showing greater preservation of the DLB-typical CIS pattern (p = 0.03) compared to APOE ε4 carriers. In contrast, GBA1 status influenced global metabolic phenotype. GBA1 carriers showed a more homogeneous PD/DLB-like metabolic pattern in the machine learning model (p = 0.003) compared to GBA1 non-carriers, whereas the latter group demonstrated greater heterogeneity and higher expression of the AD-related metabolic pattern (p = 0.004). These effects were observed along a metabolic spectrum rather than as distinct clusters.APOE ε4 and GBA1 modulate distinct aspects of the metabolic phenotype in DLB. GBA1 non-carriers and APOE ε4 carriers showed a higher rate of atypical metabolic signatures, which may contribute to biological heterogeneity and increase the risk of diagnostic misclassification.© 2026. The Author(s).
The first approval of malaria vaccines RTS,S/AS01 and R21/Matrix M marked a major milestone. Both vaccines present a portion of the Plasmodium falciparum circumsporozoite protein (PfCSP) containing an immunodominant major repeat region, which may limit breadth to other protective epitopes, limiting efficacy and durability. Using B cell receptor (BCR) knock-in mice, we found that the R21-included PfCSP epitope elicited robust B cell responses to the immunodominant major repeats but not to other highly protective epitopes, the minor repeat and junction. We then defined a minimal peptide capable of eliciting minor repeat-specific B cell responses and generating highly protective antibodies (Abs). We characterized these Abs bioinformatically and structurally to identify protective traits, which informed the design of variant Abs with improved affinity. Finally, we demonstrated that vaccination combining the R21-included PfCSP epitope, the minimal minor repeat peptide, and a junctional region immunogen elicited balanced B cell and Ab responses, enhancing protection in vivo. Broadening responses through immunofocusing may overcome immunogenic gaps in current malaria vaccines.© 2026 Koo et al.
ABBV-916, an anti-amyloid immunotherapy, was evaluated in patients with early Alzheimer's disease (AD).This phase 1b/2, double-blind, placebo-controlled study consisted of two stages: multiple ascending dose (Stage A) and dose expansion (Stage B). In Stage A, patients were randomized to one of six planned cohorts to receive intravenous ABBV-916 (10 mg to 3000 mg) or placebo monthly through week 24. Assessments included amyloid PET, blood-based biomarkers, pharmacokinetics (PK), and safety. Dose selection for Stage B was to be based on results from Stage A.One hundred six patients were randomized to ABBV-916 or placebo. The 3000 mg dose was reduced to 2000 mg and subsequently to 900 mg after safety review. Dose-proportional PK were observed, and amyloid reduction was observed over 24 weeks at doses ≥300 mg. Most adverse events were non-serious amyloid-related imaging abnormalities. The program ended before dose expansion due to business considerations.Amyloid clearance rate and safety of ABBV-916 were generally comparable to approved anti-amyloid AD therapies.NCT05291234.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Although hydrophobic drugs demonstrate the promising therapeutic efficacy for peripheral artery disease in vitro, their in vivo performance is often hindered by low bioavailability due to inherent hydrophobicity. To address this, an injectable, self-healing and curcumin-sustained-release hydrogel (CGP hydrogel) using a gelatin/polyvinyl alcohol hydrogel (GP hydrogel) was developed. The CGP hydrogel effectively preserved the DPPH radical-scavenging activity of curcumin at room temperature. Meanwhile, in the murine hindlimb ischemia model, a single intramuscular injection of CGP following femoral artery ligation significantly improved the motor function of the ischemic limb compared to curcumin suspension. This superior therapeutic outcome is attributed to the sustained release of curcumin from the CGP hydrogel. Mechanistically, we found that CGP, but not GP, inhibited the expression of Atp6v0d2 in ischemic skeletal muscle cells and suppressed ischemia-induced autophagy. The inhibition of autophagy may mitigate tissue and cellular necrosis and promote the expression of Myogenin. Furthermore, CGP reduced the expression of pro-fibrotic factors such as Tgfb1 and Ctgf and prevented skeletal muscle fibrosis. In summary, the CGP hydrogel, through its sustained release of curcumin, inhibits ischemia-induced autophagy, alleviates necrosis and fibrosis in skeletal muscle tissue and preserves motor function in the ischemic limb.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
The ovarian cancer immunoreactive antigen domain-containing protein 1 (OCIAD1) is a mitochondrial protein implicated in mitochondrial morphology, energy metabolism, and differentiation. Although understudied, recent studies position it as a critical player in carcinogenesis and neurodegenerative disorders, making it a potentially druggable node in cellular signaling networks. However, the phosphoregulatory networks and the upstream kinases governing OCIAD1 remain unknown.A large-scale literature mining and analysis of 177 phosphoproteomic datasets with differential expression of OCIAD1 was carried out to map its phosphoregulatory network. The predominant phosphosites were determined based on localization probability, detection frequency, and differential regulation. Multipronged computational approaches were employed to gather novel candidate kinases that may target OCIAD1 phosphosites. Co-differential phosphorylation analysis was conducted with other proteins, including interactors and candidate upstream kinases, to infer functional and regulatory associations.The sites S108 and S123 emerged as predominant, together accounting for 70% of OCIAD1 phosphorylation. Co-differential phosphorylation analysis revealed associations with proteins involved in the cell cycle, DNA repair, autophagy, mitophagy, endocytosis, and apoptosis. Novel candidate kinases for OCIAD1 phosphosites were identified; notably, SRMS and YES1 emerged as potential upstream regulators of Y199. Furthermore, the phosphosites in the candidate kinases of sites, including PLK1 (T210), CDK13 (S383, S397), PRKD2 (S200), CIT (S1343), and RPS6KA3 (T577), showed strong positive co-differential regulation with OCIAD1 predominant sites, supporting their potential involvement as upstream kinases.This study presents the first systematic map of the OCIAD1 phosphoregulatory network and provides candidate upstream kinases that may contribute to its phosphorylation, which warrant further experimental validation. The strong co-differential regulation of proteins involved in autophagy, mitophagy, endocytosis, and neurodegenerative pathways, as well as of kinases that orchestrate these processes, suggests that OCIAD1 phosphoregulatory network maybe involved in mitochondrial quality control and mitochondria-associated neurodegeneration, establishing a foundation for therapeutic investigations targeting OCIAD1 signaling.Copyright © 2026 Fahma, Subair, Lubaba, Gopalakrishnan, Shivamurthy and Raju.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564232 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564156 is a review article
Considering the shared physiological mechanisms between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), it is plausible that certain compounds may exert therapeutic effects on both neurological disorders. This study aimed to employ in silico techniques to investigate the pharmacological mechanisms of huperzine A (HA) as an alternative treatment for PD and AD.Molecular targets of HA and genes associated with AD and PD were identified from public databases. Gene Ontology analysis, metabolic pathway analysis, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction were performed to identify shared molecular targets. Molecular docking was performed to assess HA affinity for hub proteins and to compare it with that of drugs used to treat AD and PD.The results suggested that HA interacts with 77 molecular targets common to both diseases. Enrichment analysis revealed that proteins from these targets were involved in biological functions, such as serotonin and amine binding. Hub proteins (SRC, TP53, AKT1, and CASP3) were identified from the PPI network. Furthermore, molecular docking simulations showed favorable binding of HA to the hub proteins and adequate binding to the targets of standard drugs (MAOB and ACHE). On the other hand, molecular dynamics analyses were performed to compare the binding characteristics of HA with those of the control targets.HA may modulate SRC, CASP3, and AKT1, suggesting a pleiotropic mechanism underlying the association between AD and PD. These computational findings provide a rational basis for experimental validation by modulating signaling pathways implicated in inflammatory processes and inhibiting enzymes involved in neurotransmitter degradation.This study contributes to the understanding of the neuroprotective activity of HA in AD and PD. However, further in vitro and in vivo investigations are required to confirm the dual therapeutic potential of HA in the treatment of AD and PD.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a leading cause of heart failure with notable sex differences in susceptibility and progression. Although sarcomere mutations such as cardiac actin ACTC1 p.T126I contribute to familial DCM, the in vivo effects and sex-specific consequences remain unclear. We generated a zebrafish model carrying the orthologous Acta1b p.T126I mutation and conducted longitudinal, sex-stratified analyses of cardiac function, morphology and gene expression. Mutants showed variable onset of cardiac dysfunction, with progressive DCM, pericardial effusion, ventricular dilation, and reduced survival in adults. Female mutants exhibited earlier and sustained diastolic dysfunction, greater cardiac remodeling and significantly lower survival compared to males, revealing pronounced sexual dimorphism. Molecular profiling at a pre-symptomatic stage identified upregulation of nppb, downregulation of hypertrophic transcription factors (gata4, mef2ca), and sex-specific alterations in calcium handling genes (serca2, pln1, slc8a1a) and proteostasis regulators (hsf1, bag3). Older stages demonstrated a variable shift of individuals' gene expression to cardiac remodeling and decompensation. These findings demonstrate that the Acta1b p.T126I mutation drives progressive, sex-specific DCM in zebrafish, highlighting biological sex as a critical modifier of sarcomeric cardiomyopathy progression and targeted therapy development.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Estrogen deficiency-induced osteoporosis is largely driven by excessive osteoclast formation and bone resorption, but the direct pharmacological targets of flavonoid derivatives in osteoclast differentiation remain unclear. Here, we investigated the anti-osteoclastogenic activity and molecular mechanism of 2'-O-Galloylhyperin (2'-O-GH), a structurally defined flavonoid derivative. The effects of 2'-O-GH on RANKL-induced osteoclastogenesis were evaluated in bone marrow-derived macrophages and RAW264.7 cells using TRAP staining, qPCR, western blotting, F-actin staining, immunofluorescence, and bone resorption assays. Target identification was performed using a biotinylated 2'-O-GH probe coupled with pull-down and LC-MS/MS analysis, followed by molecular docking and microscale thermophoresis. In vivo efficacy was assessed in an ovariectomy-induced osteoporosis mouse model. 2'-O-GH inhibited RANKL-induced formation of TRAP-positive multinucleated osteoclasts without evident cytotoxicity at effective concentrations. It downregulated osteoclast-related markers, including NFATc1, c-FOS, SRC, ACP5, ATP6V0D2, and CTSK, and impaired F-actin ring formation and bone resorption. Mechanistically, 2'-O-GH restrained RANKL-induced NF-κB p65 nuclear translocation. Chemical proteomics identified MAP3K11/MLK3 as a candidate target, and molecular docking and microscale thermophoresis supported its direct interaction with 2'-O-GH. 2'-O-GH further suppressed RANKL-induced phosphorylation of MLK3 and IKKα/β, whereas MLK3 overexpression partially rescued NF-κB activation and osteoclast differentiation. In ovariectomized mice, 2'-O-GH attenuated bone loss without obvious effects on body or uterine weight. These findings identify MLK3 as a pharmacological target of 2'-O-GH and suggest that 2'-O-GH suppresses osteoclastogenesis through the MLK3/IKK/NF-κB axis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
In this study, we investigated the toxicological mechanisms of trifloxystrobin (TFX), a widely used strobilurin fungicide, on zebrafish embryos, focusing on cardiovascular development and function. Embryos were exposed to TFX (100-500 μg/L) for 96 h. The compound exhibited high acute toxicity with a 96-h median lethal concentration (LC50) of ~320 μg/L. At 200-300 μg/L, TFX induced bioenergetic impairment, manifested as growth retardation and nutrient retention in the yolk sac. The prevalence of pericardial edema served as a hallmark of cardiac dysfunction, prompting a detailed functional assessment. A detailed cardiovascular analysis revealed a critical hemodynamic paradox. While TFX-exposed embryos exhibited bradycardia and a compensatory increase in the ventricular ejection fraction and wall thickness, effective systemic circulation was severely compromised. An advanced regurgitation analysis demonstrated that TFX caused severe atrioventricular valve insufficiency and retrograde blood flow, leading to a significant overestimation of cardiac output when calculated by standard volumetric methods alone. An analysis of the dorsal aorta confirmed a genuine reduction in the arterial blood flow velocity, validating the presence of circulatory failure despite myocardial hyper-contractility. Mechanistically, the hemodynamic alteration was linked to significant downregulation of the klf2a flow-sensitive transcription factor, which impaired valve morphogenesis, while the concurrent upregulation of nppa, nppb, and gata4 signaled pathological cardiac stress and hypertrophy. These findings elucidate a mechano-molecular toxicity pathway for TFX and highlight the technical necessity of coupling a regurgitation analysis with peripheral flow assessment to accurately evaluate cardiac toxicity in aquatic models.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Myocardial fibrosis (MF) is a pathological process often triggered by chronic inflammation and pressure overload. This study aimed to investigate the therapeutic potential of ranitidine, a histamine H2 receptor antagonist, on MF and explore its underlying mechanisms, focusing on the FAK/Src pathway and inflammatory responses.A mouse model of MF was established by transverse aortic constriction (TAC). Cardiac function was assessed by echocardiography. Histopathological changes, collagen deposition, mast cell infiltration, and the expression of histamine and its H2 receptor were examined. In vitro, NIH/3T3 fibroblasts were stimulated with TGF-β1 to induce fibrotic activation. The effects of ranitidine on collagen synthesis, the expression of fibrotic markers (α-SMA, Collagen I/III), and the phosphorylation of FAK/Src were evaluated.Ranitidine treatment significantly improved TAC-induced cardiac dysfunction and attenuated myocardial fibrosis, as evidenced by reduced collagen deposition. It also markedly decreased mast cell infiltration and the expression of histamine and H2 receptor in cardiac tissues. In TGF-β1-stimulated fibroblasts, ranitidine dose-dependently reduced collagen synthesis, downregulated α-SMA, Collagen I, and Collagen III expression, and suppressed the activation of the FAK/Src pathway.Our findings demonstrate that ranitidine ameliorates pressure overload-induced myocardial fibrosis, likely in association with attenuation of histamine/H2 receptor-related inflammatory responses and reduced FAK/Src activation. This study suggests the repurposing potential of ranitidine for treating MF.Copyright © 2026 Yang, Zhang, Zhao, He, Zheng, Chen, Hu, Long and Chen.
Tissue regeneration after injury is crucial for restoring epithelial structure and function. Upon damage, a regenerative microenvironment forms that provides signalling cues that stimulate stem cell proliferation to replace lost cells. While this process is well understood, how stem cells themselves sense damage, translate this input into their proliferation and shape the regenerative microenvironment remains unclear. Here we show that Draper-Src-Shark signalling in Drosophila intestinal stem cells (ISCs) recognises tissue damage by sensing externalised phosphatidylserine on dying midgut epithelial cells and is required for STAT activation in ISCs to promote their proliferation. Unlike its role in phagocytosis, Draper in ISCs does not promote the clearance of these apoptotic enterocytes but rather facilitates ISC proliferation in the presence of damaged enterocytes. Moreover, Draper-Src-Shark signalling in progenitors regulates STAT transcriptional activity in the adjacent visceral muscle, indicating that progenitors can shape the regenerative microenvironment beyond tissue boundaries. As Src and STAT are also activated in the mammalian intestinal epithelium after damage and tumour formation, these findings may help develop therapies for tissue regeneration, inflammatory diseases and cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556071 is a review article
Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) has been an anti-cancer protein target for three decades due to its over-activation in various cancers; however, direct STAT3 inhibitors have not reached the market. In this study, a series of novel hydrazone derivatives were designed, synthesized, and characterized. The most promising compound P42 was found to selectively target the STAT3 SH2 domain over the DNA-binding domain, as suggested by the results from fluorescence polarization assays. The GI50 values after 72 h of P42 treatment were determined to be 0.85-5 μM in STAT3-overexpressing pancreatic and colorectal cancer cell lines harboring KRAS mutations (MIA PaCa-2, DLD-1 and HCT 116). Western blot analyses showed that P42 significantly inhibited phosphorylated STAT3 levels without affecting total STAT3 and its upstream kinases JAK2 and SRC. P42 demonstrated significant autophagy-associated cell death rather than apoptosis or necrosis in flow cytometry analyses, with increases in LC3II/I ratios and decreases in p62 levels. Cancer stemness potential was significantly abrogated with P42 as shown in colony formation assay and decreases in epithelial-mesenchymal transition/stemness markers SNAIL and ZEB1 levels. Molecular docking further supported a plausible binding mode within the STAT3 SH2 domain for P42, and SwissADME prediction suggested its favorable drug-likeness properties. Taken together, P42 warrants future anti-cancer drug development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
By identifying which factors impact the physical function outcomes of pain therapies, health care providers can more effectively match therapies to individuals. This approach will ultimately improve the overall quality of pain management for diverse patient populations.The objective of this study was to test the following research question: Does the effectiveness of complementary and integrative health (CIH) versus standard rehabilitative care (SRC) in improving physical function differ on the basis of participant characteristics?The study design was a moderator analysis of data collected during a pragmatic clinical trial using a sequential multiple assignment randomized trial design.The setting was an interdisciplinary pain management center at a military medical center.The participants were a complete case sample of 249 active-duty service members with chronic pain.The interventions included a 3-week program of CIH therapies, consisting of twice-weekly chiropractic, acupuncture, yoga, and massage therapies, as well as a 3-week program of SRC, consisting of twice-weekly physical and occupational therapies.Functional measure t scores were calculated from a treadmill, lift, and carry battery.Multiple linear regression models showed that the effect of CIH versus SRC on the functional performance measure was moderated by race, pain impact, pain catastrophizing, and satisfaction with social roles.CIH interventions may be most effective for individuals who are non-Hispanic White, and SRC interventions may be more effective for individuals who are non-Hispanic Black. Psychosocial factors that may improve intervention effectiveness include lower baseline pain impact and pain catastrophizing and higher satisfaction with social roles.This research underscores the importance of tailoring interventions to the individual. By considering individuals' demographics as well as their psychological and social factors, health care providers can more effectively match individuals with the most appropriate treatment approach, ultimately improving outcomes across multiple dimensions of physical function.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Physical Therapy Association. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
The ability to tightly regulate and maintain a warm core body temperature (Tb) is a defining characteristic of homeotherms. Moving to a thermally preferred place is an energetically efficient first-line thermoregulatory mechanism. We optimized a mouse binary thermal preference assay, selecting floor plate temperatures of 38°C vs 25°C for males and 39°C vs 30°C for females as having no baseline preference. Warm preference was increased in females, by fasting, and with age. Genetic manipulations that increased warm preference included ablation of uncoupling protein 1 (Ucp1) or of all four adenosine receptors (Adora1, Adora2a, Adora2b, Adora3). Ablation of estrogen receptor α (Esr1) reduced the preference for the warmer side in females but had no effect on preference in males. Mice treated with the β3 adrenergic receptor agonist CL-316243 or the adenosine receptor 3 agonist MRS5698 sought the cooler surface. Thermal preference assays complement the measurement of Tb, providing information about whether a change in Tb reflects a new target or setpoint Tb caused by the intervention, or if the mouse is trying to maintain an unchanged Tb. Thermal preference can be more sensitive than baseline Tb for detecting changes in thermal physiology.
Multi-behavior recommendation leverages auxiliary behaviors as supplementary signals to identify the most commercially valuable latent target behaviors. While auxiliary behaviors provide valuable signals related to the target behavior, existing methods lack fine-grained alignment mechanisms between the target behavior and auxiliary behaviors. To address this limitation, we propose a Semantic-aligned Adversarial Diffusion Model for Multi-Behavior Recommendation (SADRec). Specifically, we first design an Adversarial Diffusion Model (ADM) with the target behavior as a discriminative anchor. ADM employs discriminative supervision to guide the reconstruction process, enabling auxiliary behaviors to adaptively identify key semantic dimensions and selectively preserve non-essential discrepancies when aligning with the target behavior, thereby achieving fine-grained and precise semantic calibration. Then, we introduce a Multi-level Negative Sampling mechanism (MNS) that extracts negative samples of multi-level hardness at specific time steps via the reverse process of the diffusion model and aligns them with the target behavior through multi-level graph contrastive learning, thereby jointly optimizing the reconstruction process and identifying auxiliary behavior signals that carry latent target behaviors. Finally, extensive experiments on three public multi-behavior datasets demonstrate that our SADRec outperforms state-of-the-art baselines, especially in alleviating data sparsity. Our datasets and source code are available https://github.com/sasdasdasdwew/SADRec.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Endothelial dysfunction is critical for the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis, particularly in arterial regions exposed to disturbed flow (DF). ADCY4 (adenylate cyclase 4) catalyzes the production of cAMP, a ubiquitous second messenger that regulates cellular and physiological processes. This study investigated ADCY4 as a shear-stress-responsive gene in ECs for the regulation of vascular endothelial inflammation during atherogenesis.Integrated analysis of RNA sequencing data sets from human vascular ECs exposed to unidirectional flow or DF, and single-cell RNA-seq data from mouse partial ligation carotid arteries, was performed. ADCY4 expression was quantified in cultured ECs under various flow conditions. Nanoparticles carrying Cdh5 promoter-driven CRISPR-Cas9 Adcy4-specific guide RNA plasmids were used to achieve EC-specific Adcy4 knockout in ApoE-/- mice for atherogenesis studies.ADCY4 was upregulated in ECs under unidirectional flow but downregulated under DF. We identified that KLF2 directly bound to the ADCY4 promoter and transcriptionally enhanced its expression in human aortic ECs. ADCY4 knockdown in ECs under unidirectional flow increased proinflammatory gene expression and monocyte adhesion, whereas ADCY4 overexpression under DF produced opposite changes. Further studies showed ADCY4 attenuated endothelial inflammation by inhibiting NF-κB signaling. We performed partial carotid ligation in the high-fat diet-fed ApoE-/- mouse atherosclerosis model, demonstrating that EC-specific Adcy4 knockout increased vascular endothelial inflammation and monocyte infiltration, thus promoting atherosclerotic plaque formation. Aggravated atherogenesis was also observed in EC-Adcy4 knockout high-fat diet-fed ApoE-/- mice, with increased atherosclerotic lesions in en face aortas and aortic arches. Finally, semaglutide increased ADCY4 expression in human aortic ECs under DF and reduced vascular endothelial inflammation, monocyte accumulation, and atherosclerotic plaque formation. These beneficial effects were substantially impaired when EC ADCY4 was absent.ADCY4 regulation of the cAMP/PKA-NF-κB pathway in the endothelium advances our understanding of vascular inflammation in atherogenesis and provides opportunities for therapeutic intervention of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.
Hepatomegaly in hemolytic disorders, including in thalassemia, is a common complication, primarily due to hemosiderosis and activation of extramedullary hematopoiesis. Globin chain imbalance leads to chronic hemolysis and ineffective erythropoiesis, which are associated with suppression of hepcidin expression. Reduced hepcidin levels may increase iron absorption and accumulation, contributing to oxidative stress and liver tissue damage. Iron chelation therapy, such as deferipron, is effective but has side effects, so safer alternatives are needed. Sappanwood (Caesalpinia sappan L.) contains the active compound brazilin, which chelates iron and exhibits antioxidant activity, potentially reducing oxidative stress, improving iron metabolism disorders, and reducing hepatomegaly. This study aims to evaluate the potential of sappanwood extract as a natural iron chelator and antioxidant.This experimental study used male Wistar rats (180-250 g) with a model of iron overload hemolytic anemia, which were divided into normal controls, negative controls (phenylhydrazine 40 mg/kg BW), positive controls (deferiprone 75 mg/kg BW), and sappanwood extract (SWE) treatment (50, 100, 200 mg/kg BW) for 14 days. The parameters measured included iron metabolism, hepatomegaly, liver function, hepcidin-related gene expression, and oxidative stress. Data were analyzed using ANOVA, with p < 0.05 considered significant.The results showed that administration of 100 mg/kg BW SWE provided optimal improvement (p < 0.05), including reductions in hepatomegaly, SGPT, hemosiderin, lipid peroxidation, bilirubin, extramedullary hematopoiesis, and modulation in iron-related gene expression, including Hamp, Bmp6, Epo, and Ftl.These findings confirm the potential of sappanwood as a potential therapeutic candidate for the management of iron overload in thalassemia.© 2026 The Author(s). Animal Models and Experimental Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of The Chinese Association for Laboratory Animal Sciences.
This study evaluated long-term postoperative outcomes and complications after breast-conserving surgery (BCS) with acellular dermal matrix (ADM) insertion.We retrospectively reviewed the data of patients treated between July 2015 and August 2021. Patients who did not undergo postoperative follow-up were excluded. Clinical characteristics, treatment information, and postoperative complications were collected from the electronic medical records. Complications were classified as major (requiring hospitalization or surgical intervention) or minor (manageable in an outpatient setting). ADM removals were categorized as early (≤ 6 months postoperatively) or delayed (> 6 months).Among the 236 patients (median follow-up, 71.7 months), complications occurred in 119 (50.4%): 22 major (9.3%) and 97 minor (41.1%). Infection was the most common major complication (13/22, 59.2%), whereas seroma was the predominant minor complication (87/97, 89.7%). In univariate analysis, no clinicopathological or treatment-related factors were associated with major complications. ADM removal was performed in 28 patients (11.9%), including nine with local recurrence and 19 unrelated to recurrence (8.1%). Among the 19 nonrecurrent removals, 13 (68.4%) occurred > 6 months after surgery, most commonly due to infection (12/19, 63.2%).Complications after BCS with ADM insertion were common during the long-term follow-up. The 9.3% major complication rate and 8.1% reoperation rate for ADM removal are not negligible. These findings highlight the need for careful patient selection and long-term surveillance of patients undergoing BCS with ADM insertion.© The Authors 2026.
In patients with advanced cubital tunnel syndrome (CuTS), conventional surgical outcomes are often suboptimal due to the long distance required for nerve regeneration. The supercharged end-to-side anterior interosseous nerve to ulnar motor nerve transfer (referred to as SETS transfer) has been proposed to enhance reinnervation and accelerate recovery. This study aimed to evaluate the electrodiagnostic and clinical outcomes of SETS transfer in patients with advanced CuTS and to determine the time course of functional recovery.This prospective study included 11 patients with severe, non-traumatic CuTS (modified McGowan grade IIB or III) who underwent ulnar nerve decompression, subcutaneous anterior transposition, and SETS transfer. Electrodiagnostic studies were performed preoperatively and at 3, 6, and 12 months postoperatively, assessing compound muscle action potentials (CMAPs) of the abductor digiti minimi (ADM) and first dorsal interosseous muscles, sensory nerve action potentials (SNAPs) of the ulnar and dorsal ulnar cutaneous (DUC) nerves, and detection of nascent motor unit action potentials (MUAPs). Grip and key-pinch strength and Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand (DASH) scores were assessed preoperatively and at 12 months.The CMAP amplitude of the ADM significantly improved at the 12-month follow-up compared to the preoperative assessment (p = 0.004). Postoperative nascent MUAPs were observed in 8 patients, all of which appeared within 6 months. In contrast, among patients with no preoperative SNAP who had a postoperative response, most recorded their first SNAP at 12 months after surgery (5 of 6 for ulnar SNAP and 5 of 7 for DUC SNAP). Key-pinch strength and DASH scores improved significantly (p = 0.014 and p = 0.003, respectively), while grip strength showed no significant change (p = 0.142).SETS transfer may promote early reinnervation and improve intrinsic muscle function in patients with severe CuTS. Serial electrodiagnostic studies suggest that SETS transfer may contribute to motor recovery within the first 6 months postoperatively.Copyright © 2026 by The Korean Orthopaedic Association.
Ischemic tissue perfusion remains a major clinical challenge despite VEGF's central role in angiogenesis. Limited success of VEGF-based therapies underscores the need to understand endothelial heterogeneity, as distinct subsets exhibit differential responsiveness. This study explores conserved endothelial states that govern VEGF-driven angiogenesis across human organs and evaluates their functional significance.We performed single-cell and single-nucleus RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq/snRNA-seq) analysis of endothelial cells (ECs) from eight human tissues using GTEx data, validated findings in independent skin and heart datasets, and conducted CRISPR-mediated PLCγ2 knockout in cultured ECs followed by scRNA-seq.Analysis of 209,126 nuclei revealed a universal arterial-like endothelial subset (cluster 2) enriched across all organs, characterized by high expression of PLCγ2, a critical VEGF signaling effector. PLCγ2high cells exhibited robust angiogenic and lymphangiogenic programs, including upregulation of VEGFC, NOTCH4, and JAG1, and enrichment of pathways for vasculature development and endothelial differentiation. Cell-cell communication analysis demonstrated exclusive BMP6, IGF2, and CXCL12 signaling from PLCγ2high cells to fibroblasts, pericytes, and immune cells, positioning this subset as a central angiogenic hub. Functional validation showed that PLCγ2 knockout depleted PLCγ2high clusters, suppressed VEGF signaling, and diminished BMP6 ligand secretion, confirming its role in maintaining proangiogenic endothelial states.Ineffective targeting of the appropriate EC state may limit current therapeutic VEGF strategies, positioning PLCγ2high ECs as a clinically relevant target.We identify PLCγ2high arterial ECs as a conserved pan-organ population critical for VEGF responsiveness and vascular regeneration. These findings reimagine VEGF therapy by highlighting PLCγ2 as a critical regulator of a proangiogenic arterial-like endothelial state and a promising combinatorial target to overcome limitations of current angiogenic strategies.
F-waves are late motor responses traditionally elicited via supramaximal stimulation. However, submaximal stimulation may offer a more sensitive probe for assessing spinal motoneuron excitability. This study characterizes F-wave recruitment curves using graded submaximal stimulation across various intrinsic hand muscles.F-waves were recorded from the abductor pollicis brevis (APB), abductor digiti minimi (ADM), and first dorsal interosseous (FDI) in 15 healthy subjects (ages 35-78). Four stimulus intensities were employed-10%, 20%, 30%, and 100% of the maximal compound muscle action potential (CMAP) amplitude-with 20 stimuli delivered per intensity. Analysis focused on F-wave frequency, amplitude, and matched F-wave/CMAP ratios (F-wave/CMAPm), where the F-wave and CMAP were recorded at identical stimulus intensities.Most parameters correlated positively with stimulus intensity; however, F-wave/CMAPm consistently decreased as intensity increased. The ADM exhibited a distinct recruitment profile, with F-wave persistence rising steeply at low intensities and reaching near-saturation at 30%, while showing no significant amplitude differences between submaximal levels. In contrast, the APB and FDI displayed more linear recruitment patterns for both persistence and amplitude.Submaximal stimulation reliably elicits F-waves and reveals muscle-specific excitability profiles. The ADM's high excitability suggests a more readily recruitable motoneuron pool. Furthermore, the inverse relationship between F-wave/CMAPm and stimulus intensity suggests the early recruitment of larger, highly excitable Type II motoneurons. This refined recruitment curve approach may provide valuable insights into the "split-hand" phenomenon observed in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
Dengue virus (DENV) represents a growing global health challenge with billions of people at risk. Severe Dengue (SD), a complication of DENV infection that involves generalized hemorrhage, is driven, at least in part, by endothelial dysfunction. Endothelial dysfunction refers to increased permeability due to inflammation, mechanical injury and/or modification of the genetic program of endothelial cells. Previous work showed that exposure of endothelial cells to conditioned media from DENV-infected cells (CMDV) increased permeability and cellular stiffness, repressed endothelial markers and induced mesenchymal genes. However, the generality, extent, mechanism and ultimate impact of these events in the onset of SD remain elusive. Here, we integrate analysis from in vitro treatment of endothelial cells with media containing UV-inactivated DENV with computational modeling to investigate the key features of CMDV-induced endothelial alterations and their potential impact on endothelial dysfunction. We found that CMDV increased SNA1 and CDH2 expression, while suppressing endothelial genes OCLN and CDH5. Global transcriptomics analysis revealed that CMDV triggered a transient pro-inflammatory response, followed by induction of selected tissue repair genes and matrix remodeling. A non-directed asynchronous network model (NDAM-CMDV) identified IL6 and FN1 as central nodes of DENV-induced endothelial trans-differentiation, providing new molecular insights that predict the evolution of the disease and identify potential therapeutic targets.Copyright: © 2026 Alfaro-García et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Congenital heart defects (CHDs) comprise the most common congenital malformation affecting nearly 1% of all newborns. In individuals with sex chromosome aneuploidy syndromes, however, the prevalence reaches up to 50% of all livebirths. One commonality to these syndromes is a marked reduction in sex hormones, particularly androgens. Androgen receptor (Ar) insufficiency represents a culprit in the pathophysiology of adult onset cardiovascular disease and arrhythmia, but there are no reports regarding Ar function during heart development. This is surprising as androgens along with its nuclear receptor exist already during early development, even before gonads develop and become functional.We evaluated the role of the Ar during vertebrate heart development by generating loss-of function in zebrafish embryos via pharmacological inhibition, transient CRISPR/Cas9 treatment, or interference of splicing as well as murine cell culture.Attenuation of Ar function in zebrafish embryos prevents normal cardiac morphology and physiology as apparent by edema, bradycardia and arrhythmia. Molecularly, we identified increased abundance of adrenomedullin (Adm) 2a as a likely cause for the observed defects. Cellularly, these phenomena may be linked to impaired formation of proepicardial cells, which are reported to intermingle with cells of the conduction system and influence cardiac pacing.A disrupted Ar - Adm2 axis possibly contributes to the increased frequency of CHD in individuals suffering from sex chromosome aneuploidy syndrome.© 2026. The Author(s).
Both diet and aging shape the gut microbiota, yet how their combined remodeling propagates across microbial function to host barrier and brain outcomes remains poorly understood. Despite abundant links between Short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) and intestinal health, integrative studies that connect community ecology with SCFA linked metabolism, epithelial signaling, systemic inflammation, behavior, and test causal reversibility are limited. In this study, we assessed gut microbiota and function alongside host tissues and behavior. In mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD), particularly in the 12-month-old cohort, we observed hippocampal-dependent cognitive and locomotor deficits (longer escape latency, fewer platform crossings, reduced target-quadrant time; lower distance, speed and center time), accompanied by systemic inflammation, with serum lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and cytokines (IL-6 and TNF-α) elevated and associated with adiposity. We then profiled the gut microbiota and its functions alongside host tissues and behavior, finding that HFD and age reduced α-diversity and shifted β-diversity, with a selective depletion of Muribaculaceae and depressed SCFA-linked pathways. Muribaculaceae abundance positively correlated with predicted SCFA-related pathways, while qRT-PCR of microbial fermentation genes supported concurrent functional alterations. In the colon, ELISA-measured butyrate level, SCFA receptors Ffar2, Ffar3 and tight-junction genes Tjp1 and Ocln were downregulated, with ZO-1 and occludin mislocalization, while serum LPS and inflammatory cytokines increased and associated with adiposity. Notably, an intervention arm showed that sodium butyrate supplementation attenuated cytokinemia, restored Ffar2, Ffar3 and tight-junction expression, improved ZO-1 and occludin integrity, and rescued behavioral performance. Collectively, these findings support an association between Muribaculaceae depletion, reduced SCFA-related functional signatures, impaired barrier associated markers, systemic inflammation, and behavioral deficits under HFD and age-associated conditions. In an intervention setting, butyrate supplementation partially ameliorated inflammatory and barrier-related readouts and improved behavioral performance.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The carcinogenic mechanism of benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) is not fully understood. Our previous studies unexpectedly revealed that A-kinase anchoring protein 12 (AKAP12), a recognized tumor suppressor frequently downregulated in malignancies, is markedly upregulated in BaP-transformed 16HBE cells (THBEc1). This paradoxical upregulation prompted us to investigate its functional consequence and regulatory mechanism. Using CRISPR/Cas9-mediated genome editing, we serendipitously obtained a cell line harboring a homozygous 18-bp deletion at positions 61 to 78 in exon 3 of AKAP12, resulting in loss of six amino acids and sustained upregulation of mutant protein; this line was named THBEc1-ΔAKAP12-c4. These cells exhibited decreased in vitro colony growth and migration, and decreased in vivo experimental lung metastasis, without affecting subcutaneous tumor growth, revealing selective suppression of metastatic phenotypes. Furthermore, we identified forkhead box A1 (FOXA1), a transcription factor with an established oncogenic role in BaP-induced carcinogenesis, as a key upstream regulator: knockout of FOXA1 downregulated AKAP12. These findings outline a dual role for FOXA1 in driving oncogenic processes while upregulating AKAP12 as a compensatory brake on metastasis. Our study supports the tumor/metastasis suppressor role of AKAP12 in BaP-induced carcinogenesis, and the mutant AKAP12 provides a tool for dissecting the functional domains of this protein.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To determine whether circulating soluble Flt-1 (sFlt-1) and soluble Tie-2 (sTie-2) are associated with intraplaque neovascularization (IPN) in human carotid atherosclerotic plaques.Forty-four patients with ≥50% carotid stenosis underwent conventional carotid ultrasound and superb microvascular imaging (SMI); 29 had plasma collected and 11 provided carotid endarterectomy specimens for histology. IPN was quantified as neovessel counts in 2-minute SMI cine loops and as microvessel counts in excised plaques. Plasma VEGF-A/B/C/D, Ang-2, sFlt-1, and sTie-2 were measured by immunoassays. Public single-cell RNA-seq data from human carotid plaques were interrogated to map FLT1, TEK, VEGFA, ANGPT1, and ANGPT2 expression to specific plaque cell populations.IPN was detected in 33/44 (75%) patients, with 0-16 neovessels on SMI (median 4). Plasma sFlt-1 correlated with SMI neovessel counts (r=0.42, p=0.030), with a similar trend for sTie-2 (r=0.37, p=0.057), whereas VEGF-A/B/C/D and Ang-2 showed no significant relationships. In the surgical subgroup, histological neovessel counts correlated with sFlt-1 (r=0.65, p=0.030) and SMI neovessel count (r= 0.68, p =0.02) but not sTie-2. sFlt-1 and sTie-2 correlated with BMI (and sTie-2 also with age), yet log-sFlt-1 remained independently associated with SMI-derived neovessel counts after adjustment for age and BMI (B = 13.24, 95% CI 0.17-26.30, p=0.047; R²=0.18), while sTie-2 was not. No significant associations were observed between IPN or sFlt-1/sTie-2 and lipid profile, CRP, leukocyte counts, or other conventional risk factors. Single-cell transcriptomics showed FLT1 and ANGPT2 broadly expressed across endothelial, smooth-muscle, and myeloid clusters, with TEK largely confined to endothelial cells and ANGPT1 to smooth-muscle cells, supporting local activation of VEGF-FLT1 and Ang-TEK/Tie-2 signaling within plaques.In this pilot study, higher plasma sFlt-1, and, to a lesser degree sTie-2, correlated with carotid IPN on SMI and histology, independent of age and BMI. These findings suggest that soluble VEGF- and Ang/Tie-2-receptor pathways may serve as circulating, context-sensitive markers of intraplaque angiogenesis and plaque vulnerability, meriting evaluation in larger longitudinal cohorts.Copyright © 2026 Zamani, Skagen, Lindberg, Bjerkeli, Dahl, Michelsen, Ueland, Aukrust, Halvorsen and Skjelland.
Organs and tissues develop in close association with the vasculature, which transports blood and nutrients and helps to remove waste. The vasculature is composed primarily of endothelial cells, which provide structure, form barriers, and are a source of developmental signals. We recently found that Mediator, a multiprotein complex that regulates transcription, was essential for proper vascular development. Here, we investigated the specific role of the Mediator tail subunit Med23 in endothelial cells. Endothelial cell-specific knockout of Med23 in mouse embryos using Tek-Cre resulted in vascular anomalies, including edema, hemorrhage, and mispatterned vasculature, alongside craniofacial defects such as micrognathia and cleft palate. Spatial transcriptomics revealed the downregulated expression of key vascular and osteogenic genes in Med23 mutants, including Vegfr1 and Col1a1, with altered signaling dynamics between endothelial and osteoblast populations. Elevated hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF1α) expression and reduced vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) signaling were observed in Med23 mutants, suggesting a hypoxia-driven suppression of neural crest cell-derived osteoblast maturation. Consistent with this model, the pharmacologic inhibition of HIF1α, combined with VEGFA supplementation, rescued craniofacial ossification and extended embryonic viability. These findings reveal a critical role for Med23 in coordinating vascular patterning and intramembranous ossification and highlight distinct hypoxic and angiogenic requirements in craniofacial dermal bone versus axial and appendicular endochondral bone development. Thus, the cranial vasculature, and more specifically endothelial cells, plays an instructive role in neural crest cell and osteogenic differentiation during cranioskeletal development.
Background and objective Antipsychotic-associated metabolic abnormalities, including weight gain, dyslipidemia, hyperglycemia, obesity, and metabolic syndrome, vary among drugs. Receptor pharmacology offers mechanistic clues, while transcriptome-wide association studies identify genetically regulated expression signals linked to lipid traits. These evidence streams are usually evaluated separately. This secondary computational sensitivity analysis used previously generated Ki-DDD-TWAS outputs and was not a primary discovery or clinical validation study. The primary hypothesis was that removing literature-derived metabolic receptor weights would preserve overall drug ranking, with Spearman ρ approximately 0.9, while shifting receptor-level contributions from histaminergic and serotonergic systems toward dopaminergic and low-prior TWAS signals. Secondary objectives were to identify low-weight genes with strong TWAS signals, assess discordance with an author-defined clinical-liability comparator, and test sensitivity to gene removal and TWAS scaling. Methods Previously generated outputs were analyzed. Ki, the inhibition constant, and DDD, the defined daily dose, served as affinity and exposure-proxy inputs. Receptor-level and per-drug risk-score files were analyzed for 52 antipsychotics across LDL, HDL, log-transformed triglycerides, non-HDL, and total cholesterol. Analyses included reconstruction validation, pooled receptor contributions, TWAS signal versus literature weight, clinical-liability discordance, leave-one-gene-out and TWAS-scaling sensitivity, and receptor co-occurrence in high-risk drug sets. No patient-level data, independent TWAS resources, longitudinal outcomes, or outcome-based validation were used. Results Reconstruction reproduced saved risk ranks with Spearman correlation 1.000 for all 10 mode-trait combinations. V4 rankings remained concordant after removing literature weights, with trait-specific correlations of 0.900-0.923 and a mean of 0.913. The weighted model was dominated by HRH1, HTR2A, and HTR2C, contributing 25.7%, 21.6%, and 10.3% of pooled signal. Under uniform weighting, DRD2, DRD3, and HTR2A led, accounting for 22.1%, 12.9%, and 12.6%. ADRB1 was the strongest high-priority low-weight TWAS candidate, with an absolute HDL z-score of 13.53 and literature weight of 0.08. Other candidates included CHRM4, DRD2, DRD4, SLC6A4, and ADRB2. The model most strongly under-ranked paliperidone versus the supplied 12-drug comparator, while ziprasidone rose under uniform weighting. Removing HRH1 produced the largest rank shifts, particularly for levomepromazine, promazine, and acepromazine. Conclusions Removing literature-derived weights preserved overall drug ranking but substantially changed receptor-level score allocation. The weighted model emphasized histaminergic and serotonergic receptors prioritized in metabolic-liability literature, whereas the uniform model revealed broader dopaminergic and low-prior contributions. ADRB1 is a computational hypothesis-generating candidate, not a confirmed mechanism or established metabolic-risk contributor. HDL-association direction was not analyzed. The framework supports dual reporting of clinically anchored weighted and discovery-oriented uniform models as an internal sensitivity strategy only. It is not externally validated, does not predict patient-level outcomes, and should not be interpreted as estimating clinical metabolic risk or establishing receptor-level causality.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
After spinal cord injury (SCI), the blood-spinal cord barrier (BSCB) is disrupted, and endothelial cells, a critical component of BSCB, undergo proliferation and remodeling to maintain barrier integrity. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying BSCB remodeling remain unclear after SCI. Here, we reveal that Yes-associated protein (YAP), a principal downstream effector of the Hippo signaling pathway, promotes endothelial proliferation and BSCB repair in mice after SCI. First, we found that YAP expression was significantly upregulated and activated in endothelial cells after SCI. Endothelial YAP knockout (YAPTEK-cre/ERT2-CKO mice) impaired endothelial proliferation, endothelial-astrocyte end-feet reorganization, and tight junction (TJ) integrity, thereby aggravating BSCB disruption and impairing BSCB remodeling and motor functional recovery after SCI. Mechanistically, endothelial YAP-dependent BSCB repair was associated with angiopoietin-1 (ANGPT1) expression and PI3K/AKT pathway activation after SCI. Exogenous ANGPT1 treatment mitigated YAP deficiency-induced inhibition of endothelial proliferation and endothelial barrier disruption via PI3K/AKT signaling in vitro. Finally, activation of YAP signaling partially mitigated SCI-induced BSCB disruption, ultimately improving motor function recovery. Together, these results identify endothelial YAP signaling as a critical regulator of BSCB remodeling associated with ANGPT1/PI3K/AKT pathway and provide a potential therapeutic target for SCI.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
New efficacious and safe therapies are needed for patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), the most common type of pancreatic cancer. A bioinformatic approach comparing human PDAC tumors to normal pancreas identified differentially expressed G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). The GPCRs with higher differential expression in PDAC included the histamine H1 receptor (HRH1), which, on average, is ~20-fold higher expressed in PDAC tumors. HRH1 is readily targetable by approved H1-antihistamines. Studies with human and murine PDAC tumor cells revealed that HRH1 agonists increase intracellular calcium in cancer cells and promote their migration and invasion. Fexofenadine, an H1-antihistamine, decreased pancreas tumor size and altered expression of cancer relevant genes in a mouse model of PDAC. These findings complement data for HRH1 and H1-antihistamines, especially second generation cationic amphiphilic antihistamines, observed in numerous other cancers. Studies are needed to determine if H1-antihistamines can augment anti-tumor response by current therapeutics and improve outcomes for PDAC patients. These findings with HRH1 suggest that other differentially expressed GPCRs with approved drugs may be therapeutic targets for PDAC and other cancers.
The classification of superficial cavernous-pattern venous malformations (VMs) remains a subject of clinical debate due to overlapping morphologic features and a lack of defined molecular drivers, particularly for lesions traditionally termed "cavernous hemangiomas". This study aimed to delineate the molecular landscape of these lesions, focusing on the significance of GJA4 mutations. We evaluated 54 cases of superficial cavernous-pattern VMs. Molecular analysis was performed using MassARRAY and digital PCR to detect mutations in GJA4, TEK, PIK3CA, GNAQ, GNA11, and GNA14. Histologic reappraisal was conducted to correlate clinicopathologic features with molecular findings. Histologic stratification categorized the cohort into classic VM (cVM, n=7) and cavernous VM (CVM, n=47); the latter was further subdivided into classical (CL-CVM, n=32) and non-classical (nCL-CVM, n=15) subtypes. GJA4 (c.121G>T, p.Gly41Cys) mutations were identified in 94% (30/32) of CL-CVM cases but were entirely absent in all cVM and nCL-CVM cases. In contrast, cVMs frequently harbored TEK or PIK3CA mutations (71%, 5/7). The molecular drivers for nCL-CVM remained largely unknown, except for a single GNA11 mutation. Morphologically, CL-CVM was characterized by dermal localization, circumscribed margins, and "back-to-back" vascular channels with fibromyoid walls displaying circumferential SMA and h-caldesmon expression. Notably, 75% (24/32) of CL-CVM cases required a diagnostic revision from their original entries. Clinical follow-up data (n=50; range: 0.1-114 months) demonstrated that all patients with CL-CVM (n=29) and nCL-CVM (n=14) achieved no evidence of disease status. In contrast, 29% (2/7) of classic cVMs resulted in residual or recurrent disease. In conclusion, GJA4 p.Gly41Cys mutation is a highly sensitive and specific molecular marker for "classical" CVMs. Our findings support a genotype-phenotype reclassification of superficial CVMs, wherein GJA4 mutations define a distinct, non-infiltrating clinicopathologic entity, separating it from the broader spectrum of superficial cavernous-pattern vascular anomalies.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Menopause-associated estrogen decline promotes gut dysbiosis and impaired gut health, but the effects of resistant starch (RS) under estrogen-deficient conditions remain unclear.Herein, we examine the effects of retrograded (RS3) and chemically modified (RS4) RS on the gut microbiota and gut barrier integrity in estrogen-deficient mice.In this study, 3-mo-old female C57BL/6 mice received the ovotoxicant vinyl cyclohexene diepoxide (VCD, 160 mg/kg) or sesame oil (vehicle) for 30 d, followed by 16 wk of dietary intervention with control (AIN-93M), 5% RS3, or 5% RS4 (n = 15/group). Estrogen deficiency was confirmed by reduced uterine weight and increased serum follicle-stimulating hormone.Gut microbiota composition was assessed via 16S rRNA sequencing; jejunal and cecal gene expressions of inflammatory markers [tumor necrosis factor (Tnf, Il22)], tight junction proteins [Tjp1, claudin1 (Cldn1)], and antimicrobial peptides [regenerating islet-derived protein (Reg)3b, Reg3g] were evaluated by quantitative polymerase chain reaction; and fecal short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) were quantified by gas chromatography-flame ionization detector. Jejunal and colon sections were examined by histological staining. Data were analyzed using a 2-way analysis of variance with estrogen status and diet as factors, followed by post hoc tests when P < 0.05.RS supplementation induced distinct clustering in bacterial β-diversity, enriched beneficial genera including Bifidobacterium, Dubosiella, Bacteroides, and Akkermansia, and reduced proinflammatory Clostridium sensu_stricto_1 in estrogen-deficient mice. Jejunal Tnf expression was elevated by VCD in the control diet but suppressed by RS4, with no significant change in RS3. Both RS3 and RS4 enhanced Tjp1 and Cldn1 expression and elevated fecal SCFAs, whereas RS3 additionally increased Reg3g expression. Histological analysis showed no significant effects of VCD and diet on most of the parameters, except for a modest effect on gut inflammation with VCD which was improved by RS supplementation.These findings suggest that RS supplementation modulates gut microbiota composition, SCFA production, and inflammatory markers, with RS4 showing stronger anti-inflammatory effects and RS3 preferentially enhancing antimicrobial peptide expression, in estrogen-deficient mice.© 2026 The Authors.
Septic shock is characterized by severe circulatory failure, microvascular dysfunction, and metabolic derangement. Methylene blue (MB) and vitamin B12 (VB12) have each shown potential benefit in vasodilatory shock, but the biological effects of their combined use remain unclear.A rat model of LPS-induced septic shock was used to evaluate the effects of combined MB and VB12 pretreatment. Transcriptomic analysis of carotid artery tissue was performed to identify treatment-responsive genes and pathways. Expression of KCNMB1, PRKG1, and PRKG2 was assessed by immunohistochemistry, western blotting, and RT-qPCR. Hemodynamic parameters, circulating injury markers, inflammatory cytokines, oxidative stress indices, and histological changes in major organs were also evaluated.Combined MB and VB12 treatment was associated with lower expression of KCNMB1, PRKG1, and PRKG2 and reduced cGMP levels compared with the model group. The combined treatment also partially improved hemodynamic abnormalities, reduced NO, H2S, and lactate levels, and attenuated inflammatory and oxidative stress responses. Histological injury in the lung, liver, kidney, and carotid artery was also alleviated.In this experimental model, combined MB and VB12 pretreatment attenuated multiple features of septic shock and was accompanied by modulation of KCNMB1 and cGMP-PRKG pathway-related markers. These findings support a potential protective role of the combined regimen, although the causal mechanistic relationship requires further investigation.Copyright: © 2026 Shan et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Evidence regarding the efficacy and safety of sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) in monogenic diabetes is limited. We evaluated real-world metabolic, renal, and safety outcomes of SGLT2i therapy in adults with monogenic diabetes.This multicenter retrospective study included adults with genetically confirmed monogenic diabetes treated with SGLT2i. Clinical and biological data were collected at baseline and after approximately 1 and 2 years. Longitudinal changes were analysed using linear mixed-effects models adjusted for baseline value, age, and sex and treatment intensification.Forty patients (mean age 48.6 ± 15.2 years) with MIDD (n = 16), HNF1B-MODY (n = 9), HNF1A/HNF4A-MODY (n = 11), or other MODY subtypes (ABCC8, INS, RFX6; n = 4) were followed for 23.9 ± 5.9 months. HbA1c remained stable overall but decreased significantly in patients with baseline HbA1c ≥ 8% (9.6% ± 1.3% to 7.6% ± 0.7%; p = 0.001). UACR declined significantly (-35.6% at 1 year and -43.5% at 2 years; p = 0.004), particularly in those with baseline CKD (trend). Genotype-specific trends suggested greater glycemic improvement in HNF1A/HNF4A-MODY and greater UACR reduction in MIDD. eGFR declined modestly over time. Non-serious adverse events occurred in 15% of patients, 7.5% discontinued treatment, and no ketoacidosis, acute kidney injury, or deaths were reported.In this nationwide cohort of patients with monogenic diabetes-the largest reported to date-SGLT2i therapy was associated with improved glycemic control in individuals with baseline HbA1c ≥ 8%, reduced albuminuria, and showed a favourable safety profile. These findings support SGLT2i as a potential therapeutic option that warrants confirmation in larger controlled studies.© 2026 The Author(s). Diabetes, Obesity and Metabolism published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Excessive NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome activity is an important driver of inflammatory tissue damage in acute lung injury (ALI), yet effective targeted therapies remain lacking. Neferine, a natural bisbenzylisoquinoline alkaloid extracted primarily from the mature seed embryo of Nelumbo nucifera, has shown anti-inflammatory potential, but its role in inflammasome regulation during ALI is still not well understood.This study was designed to examine whether neferine could attenuate lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced ALI through modulation of NLRP3 inflammasome signaling and to explore the mechanism involved.We carried out a preclinical investigation using an LPS-triggered mouse model of ALI together with a macrophage pyroptosis model induced by LPS+nigericin (Nig). Both preventive administration and delayed post-challenge treatment with neferine were evaluated in vivo. To define pathway dependence, we combined pharmacologic AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) inhibition, Prkaa1 deficiency, and blockade of autophagic flux.Neferine was examined in LPS-treated mice and in macrophages exposed to LPS plus Nig. Lung pathology, inflammatory injury, and pyroptosis-related changes were assessed. Additional experiments focused on AMPK signaling, autophagic flux, and NLRP3 degradation.Neferine attenuated inflammatory lung injury in mice, accompanied by reduced inflammatory cytokine production and decreased macrophage pyroptosis. Mechanistic analyses showed that neferine increased AMPK phosphorylation and downstream unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1 (ULK1) signaling, enhanced autophagic flux, and promoted K63-linked ubiquitination of NLRP3. These changes favored trafficking of NLRP3 into autophagic compartments and its subsequent lysosomal degradation, thereby limiting inflammasome activity. Pharmacological inhibition of AMPK signaling and genetic loss of Prkaa1 weakened the effects of neferine on ULK1-related autophagy and pyroptosis-associated readouts, supporting a functional contribution of AMPKα1 signaling to this process. Notably, neferine also remained effective when given after LPS exposure, reducing inflammatory injury and pyroptosis-associated readouts in the therapeutic setting.These findings indicate that neferine alleviates inflammasome-related lung injury at least partly through AMPKα1-dependent autophagy, accompanied by increased ULK1 phosphorylation and subsequent autophagy-lysosomal clearance of NLRP3.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
CD148 is the primary receptor-type protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) regulating platelet activation, and its inhibition has been proposed as a novel anti-thrombotic strategy with potentially lower bleeding risk than current therapies. However, selective and potent inhibitors of CD148 are currently lacking. AKB-9778 (razuprotafib), a potent inhibitor of the closely related vascular endothelial-PTP (VE-PTP), has also been reported to inhibit CD148. This study investigated the effect of AKB-9778 on in vitro whole-blood thrombogenicity, examined the molecular basis of its interaction with the CD148 catalytic domain using molecular docking, and assessed inhibitor selectivity with an in vitro phosphatase assay. In a total-thrombus formation analysis system (T-TAS), AKB-9778 partially inhibited thrombus formation, reducing AUC10 by 28%, without significantly affecting occlusion start time or occlusion time. The inhibitor did not alter collagen-stimulated CD62P platelet surface expression or PAC-1 binding to the activated integrin αIIbβ3. Molecular docking using CB-Dock predicted a binding configuration in which the phenylsulfamic acid group of AKB-9778 is orientated towards the catalytic cysteine, with additional conformations reflecting ligand flexibility. Site-directed mutagenesis of Tyr1071, Gln1283, His1206, and Asn1073 to alanine reduced the inhibitory effect in phosphatase assays, supporting interaction with these residues. Notably, the IC50 of AKB-9778 against CD148 was approximately 300-fold higher than previously reported values, consistent with the wide variability across studies. Despite this reduced potency, these findings support the concept of CD148 inhibition as a potential anti-thrombotic strategy and suggest that AKB-9778 may serve as a useful prototype for developing more selective and efficacious CD148 inhibitors.© 2026 The Author(s). Pharmacology Research & Perspectives published by British Pharmacological Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Partial hepatectomy (PH) triggers acute liver insufficiency and a tightly-orchestrated regenerative program. Here we show that artesunate (ART) markedly accelerates liver mass restoration in mice subjected to PH. ART elevated the liver index, normalized serum total protein and albumin, and curbed ALT/AST leakage. Histologically, ART attenuated hepatocellular necrosis and reduced lesion scores in a dose-dependent manner. Mechanistically, ART amplified Ki67-positive hepatocytes, suppressed apoptosis, and shifted cell-cycle distribution from G1 arrest toward G2/M progression. These regenerative effects were associated with enhanced mitophagy-related changes, as evidenced by increased TOM20/LC3B co-localization, elevated LC3-II/I ratio, increased PINK1 and Parkin expression, and reduced p62 accumulation. A chloroquine-based lysosomal inhibition assay further supported that ART enhanced mitophagy-associated flux. Docking analysis suggested a potential interaction between ART and AMPKα1/2, with docking energies of - 6.41 and - 6.45 kcal mol- 1 for PRKAA1 and PRKAA2, respectively. ART increased p-AMPKα1/2 and suppressed mTOR signaling, as further supported by reduced p-S6 expression. Pharmacological inhibition of AMPK with Compound C attenuated ART-induced PINK1/Parkin-associated mitophagy-related signaling, suppressed ART-enhanced hepatocyte proliferation, increased apoptosis, and partially reversed the ART-mediated reduction in p-S6 expression. Collectively, these findings suggest that ART promotes post-PH liver regeneration by activating AMPKα1/2-associated signaling and enhancing mitophagy-associated flux, positioning ART as a potential adjunct strategy for liver regeneration after hepatectomy.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY) is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of monogenic diabetes subtypes that is frequently misdiagnosed as type 1 or type 2 diabetes, and accurate genetic diagnosis enables a precision-medicine treatment approach. Regional Turkish data are limited, and previous Turkish series have been pediatric only. We characterized the genetic spectrum and therapeutic consequences of next-generation sequencing (NGS)-based MODY testing in a combined adult-and-pediatric cohort from the eastern Black Sea region of Türkiye.We retrospectively analyzed 296 consecutive patients with clinically suspected MODY referred between January 2022 and June 2025. A targeted NGS panel covering 14 MODY genes was applied, variants were classified per 2015 ACMG/AMP criteria, and treatment changes attributable to the genetic diagnosis were extracted from medical records. Pathogenic or likely pathogenic (P/LP) variants were identified in 43 of 296 patients (14.5%); diagnostic yield rose to 26.0% with variants of uncertain significance included. GCK-MODY accounted for 72.1% of P/LP findings, with a recurrent frameshift c.1256del p.(Phe419SerfsTer12) across nine apparently unrelated families consistent with a regional founder allele. Rare subtypes included MODY4 (PDX1), MODY6 (NEUROD1), MODY8 (CEL), MODY10 (INS), MODY12 (ABCC8) and MODY13 (KCNJ11). The genetic diagnosis directly modified pharmacological therapy in 14 patients, including insulin discontinuation in three KATP-channel MODY and one INS-MODY case.NGS-based MODY testing yields actionable findings in approximately one in seven clinically selected patients in this region and supports inclusion of MODY testing in routine endocrinology practice.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
To investigate the causal effects of antidiabetic drug targets on Bell's palsy risk using Mendelian randomization (MR), addressing limitations of observational studies and informing therapeutic strategies for diabetic patients. A 2-sample MR analysis was conducted using genetic instruments for 5 major antidiabetic drug classes: sulfonylureas (ABCC8/KCNJ11), metformin (GPD1), thiazolidinediones (PPARG), GLP1-RAs (GLP1R), and SGLTi (SLC5A1/2). Instrumental variables were selected from cis-regions (±500 kb) of target genes using HbA1c-associated single nucleotide polymorphisms (GWAS ID: ebi-a-GCST90014006) with stringent clumping (P < 5 × 10-8, r2 < 0.2) and F-statistic > 10 to ensure robustness. Bell's palsy data were sourced from FinnGen (finn-b-G6_BELLPA) including. Causal effects were assessed via inverse variance weighted, MR-Egger, and weighted median methods, complemented by sensitivity analyses (MR-Pleiotropy RESidual Sum and Outlier, Cochran's Q). Genetically proxied sulfonylurea (via ABCC8/KCNJ11) and metformin (via GPD1) targets exhibited significant protective effects against Bell's palsy, with odds ratios of 0.19 (95% CI: 0.04-0.92, P = .039) and 0.16 (0.03-0.87, P = .034), respectively. Sensitivity analyses confirmed minimal pleiotropy (MR-Egger intercept P > .05) and heterogeneity (Cochran's Q P > .05). No associations were observed for thiazolidinediones, GLP1-RAs, or SGLTi. Scatter plots and inverse variance weighted median concordance supported robustness for ABCC8/KCNJ11, though limited single nucleotide polymorphisms for GPD1 warranted cautious interpretation. This MR analysis provides genetic evidence that sulfonylureas and metformin may confer neuroprotection against Bell's palsy, supporting potential repurposing of these agents to mitigate neurological complications in diabetic patients.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Congenital persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia (HH) is a rare disorder that can lead to severe and recurrent hypoglycemic episodes in neonates and infants. Management often requires intensive glucose infusion via central venous catheters (CVCs), which may increase the risk of thrombosis. While case reports suggest thrombosis can occur in HH, the incidence, risk factors, severity, and outcomes remain poorly understood.This study aimed to determine the incidence of thrombosis in children with persistent HH and to evaluate potential risk factors associated with thrombotic complications.A descriptive, retrospective cohort study of patients with persistent HH followed at a university pediatric endocrinology clinic between January 2000 and December 2025.Twenty patients with persistent HH were included. Data on demographics, clinical characteristics, laboratory results, treatment protocols, CVC use, timing and location of thrombosis were collected. Patients who developed thrombosis were compared with those who did not to identify risk factors.Among 20 patients, 55% were male, with a median age at diagnosis of 1 day. A total of 23 CVCs were placed in 15 patients, with a median dwell time of 38 days. Thrombosis occurred in nine patients (45%), including six catheter-related and three catheter-independent intracranial thrombosis. Median age at thrombosis detection was 74 days. Patients who developed thrombosis experienced significantly more hypoglycemic episodes and more days with hypoglycemia (p < 0.05). No association was found between genetic mutations (ABCC8, KCNJ11, etc.) and thrombosis development. All four patients treated with enoxaparin achieved complete resolution without complications.Thrombosis is a frequent and clinically significant complication in persistent HH. Recurrent and severe hypoglycemic episodes are major risk factors. Routine thrombosis screening, particularly in patients with CVCs, may allow early detection and treatment even in asymptomatic cases.© The Author(s), 2026.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a common malignancy with poor clinical outcomes. Telomere maintenance is crucial for tumor cell proliferation, yet the role of telomere-related genes (TRGs) in HCC prognosis remains unclear. This study aimed to identify TRG-based prognostic signatures and to evaluate their associations with immune cell infiltration and drug responsiveness in HCC.TRGs were analyzed for survival significance with The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. A prognostic model was constructed using sequential statistical approaches. A nomogram incorporating clinical parameters was generated for patient survival estimation. Risk stratification classified HCC patients. Model accuracy was assessed by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves. Immune cell infiltration and drug responsiveness were compared across groups.A seven-gene prognostic signature (SLC7A11, BRSK2, ABCC8, AKR1B10, ALDH2, HMMR and PCP4) was established to evaluate HCC prognosis. An integrated nomogram estimating survival in patients was formulated. High-risk (HR) patients had significantly lower survival than low-risk (LR) patients. Functional analysis showed that differentially expressed genes (DEGs) enriched in nuclear division, chromosomal organization and cell cycle regulation pathways critical for HCC progression. Immune analysis indicated a negative correlation between risk score and the abundance of specific immune cells, including natural killer (NK) cells and memory CD4+ T cells. Five therapeutic agents had lower half-maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) values in HR patients.This study identified significant associations between DEGs and HCC prognosis, highlighting their potential as biomarkers. The findings suggest applications for prognostic scoring systems in clinical decision-making, therapeutic regimen selection and immunotherapy approaches for HCC patients.© AME Publishing Company.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.3389/fvets.2026.1821251.].Copyright © 2026 Widjiati, Luqman, Darsini, Aulanni'am, Hendrawan, Kurniawati and Jaafar.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42548757 is a review article
Early-life sex identification technologies are making sex-specific management increasingly feasible in broiler production, yet limited information exists on how males and females differ in the development of their gut ecosystem. While sex-related variation in growth rate and endocrine physiology is well established, much less is known about potential differences in gut morphology, barrier function, microbiota assembly, and intestinal gene expression during the starter period, where early performance divergence between males and females begins to emerge. A clearer understanding of these early-life processes is essential to refine sex-specific nutrition and management strategies. Therefore, this study investigated sex-related differences in gut morphology, intestinal permeability, microbiota composition and predicted functionality, as well as ileal gene expression related to nutrient transport, barrier function, immune response, and metabolic signaling in broilers at 7, 14, and 21 days of age.Body weight followed a typical early-life pattern and differed between sexes only at d 21, when males were heavier. Gut morphology matured similarly in both sexes, whereas gut permeability declined with age and was lower in males at d 20, suggesting a slightly tighter intestinal barrier. Microbiota structure was predominantly shaped by age, but sex-related divergence emerged with maturation from d 14 onward, especially in the cecum: males were enriched in strict anaerobic fermenters and carbohydrate-degradation/short-chain fatty acid (SCFA)-related pathways, while females showed higher abundance of Romboutsia, Flavonifractor, and other taxa linked to proteolytic metabolism and the degradation of aromatic amino acid-derived compounds. Gene expression was mainly driven by age, yet consistent sex-specific transcriptional signatures were revealed. Males were more associated with nutrient transport (e.g., SLC15A1, SLC30A1, SLC5A1) and epithelial functional maturation profiles (e.g., CDX) over time, whereas females were more associated with tight-junction integrity (e.g., OCLN) and amino-acid sensing/transport markers (e.g., T1R1, SLC3A1). Cecal SCFA concentrations were measured at d 21, yet no differences were found.Overall, gut development was largely age-driven, but sex-specific differences in barrier function, microbiota composition and function, and epithelial gene expression emerged with maturation, without differences in gut morphology or luminal SCFA concentrations.© 2026. The Author(s).
Posttransplant diabetes mellitus is a chronic metabolic complication that often develops in kidney transplant recipients and is an inflammatory disease that directly affects a patient's immune system. Angiopoietin and angiopoietin -like proteins are intrinsic mediators of immune cells. We assessed the relationship between circulating angiopoietin proteins ANGPT ¹ and ANGPT ²and angiopoietin-like proteins ANGPTL ³, ANGPTL ⁴, ANGPTL ⁶, ANGPTL ⁷, and ANGPTL ⁸ in kidney transplant recipients who develop posttransplant diabetes mellitus (experimental group) versus recipients who do not develop diabetes after transplant (control group).We included 154 age-matched and sex-matched participants (38 with posttransplant diabetes mellitus) and 155 control participants. We collected 3 mL of venous blood from each patient. Plasma levels of angiopoietin proteins ANGPT ¹ and ANGPT ² and angiopoietin-like proteins ANGPTL ³, ANGPTL ⁴, ANGPTL ⁶, ANGPTL ⁷, and ANGPTL ⁸ were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. We determined the correlation between plasma levels of ANGPT ¹and ANGPT ² and ANGPTL ³, ANGPTL ⁴, ANGPTL ⁶, ANGPTL ⁷, and ANGPTL ⁸in our posttransplant diabetes mellitus group and the control group.There were highly significant differences between kidney transplant recipients with diabetes versus control participants with regard to plasma levels of ANGPT ¹, ANGPTL ⁶, ANGPTL ⁷, and ANGPTL ⁸ (P < . ⁰⁰¹, P = . ⁰⁰¹, P < . ⁰⁰¹, and P =.⁰⁴, respectively). No significant statistical association was found for ANGPT2, ANGPTL3, and ANGPTL4 in our posttransplant diabetes mellitus cohorts.Plasma levels of ANGPT¹, ANGPTL⁶, ANGPTL⁷, and ANGPTL ⁸ may correlate with disease severity and chronicity in transplant patients who develop posttransplant diabetes mellitus. Thereby these may serve as potential biomarkers of the disease severity with possible early intervention in the management strategy especially with modifiable risk factors such as immunosuppression regimen, antidiabetic medications, and follow-up of the complications of posttransplant diabetes mellitus.
Prostate cancer (PCa) is characterized by molecular heterogeneity and metabolic reprogramming, but the relationships among transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolic signals remain incompletely defined. Here, we present a human-centered, cross-dataset analysis of public RNA, protein, and metabolomics data in PCa. We analyzed RNA and protein profiles from PC3 parental and drug-resistant cells together with an independent human matched tissue metabolomics dataset from Metabolomics Workbench (ST000784). RNA-protein overlap analysis identified seven genes that were significant at both layers, including five concordantly upregulated genes: UPP1, IGF2R, FLNC, DSP, and PLEC. Among these, UPP1 provided the most direct metabolic interpretation because it encodes uridine phosphorylase 1, an enzyme linked to pyrimidine salvage. Independent ST000784 matched prostate tissue metabolomics supported broader nucleotide metabolism remodeling, including significant changes in N-carbamoyl-L-aspartate, guanosine monophosphate, and adenosine 3,5-cyclic monophosphate. In contrast, uracil was not significantly altered and uridine 5'-monophosphate showed only a trend after multiple-testing correction. Repeated stratified cross-validation showed that UPP1-containing candidate gene sets achieved high within-layer AUC values in RNA and protein data, while nested statistical benchmark models also performed strongly. These results prioritize a UPP1-associated nucleotide remodeling hypothesis in PCa, but do not establish causal regulation of metabolite abundance or clinical diagnostic utility. Future matched multi-omics and perturbation experiments are required.Copyright: © 2026 Chen et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Ischemic heart disease remains a leading cause of mortality worldwide. Although mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) transplantation offers a promising strategy for myocardial infarction, its therapeutic efficacy is limited by poor cell survival and insufficient regenerative capacity. Traditional Chinese medicine has been widely used to promote blood circulation and treat ischemic diseases. Chuanxiong-Chishao (Ligusticum chuanxiong and Paeoniae Radix Rubra) is a commonly used herb pair for this purpose. This study aimed to investigate whether Chuanxiong-Chishao combined with MSCs could synergistically enhance angiogenesis after myocardial infarction. A rat model of myocardial infarction (MI) was established by permanent ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery, and the animals were randomly assigned to the sham, model, MSCs, and Chuanxiong-Chishao combined with MSCs (CC-MSCs) groups. MSCs were injected intramyocardially immediately after ligation, and herbal treatment was administered for 28 days. Cardiac function was evaluated by echocardiography, myocardial fibrosis by Masson staining, and angiogenesis by CD31 immunofluorescence. Proteomic profiling was performed using label-free quantitative analysis, and key proteins were validated by Western blot. Compared with MSCs alone, CC-MSCs significantly improved left ventricular ejection fraction, fractional shortening, and cardiac output, reduced infarct size, and enhanced neovascularization in MI rats. Proteomic analysis identified 154 differentially expressed proteins between the model and CC-MSCs groups, and Gene Ontology enrichment analysis indicated significant activation of angiogenesis-related processes. Among these proteins, CDC42, NRP1, and AMOT were markedly altered, which was further confirmed by Western blot analysis. These findings suggest that Chuanxiong-Chishao enhances MSC-mediated angiogenesis and cardiac repair after MI, potentially through modulation of angiogenesis-related protein networks.Copyright© 2025 Polish Physiological Society.
Canine parvovirus type 2 (CPV-2) is a highly contagious pathogen that causes severe hemorrhagic enteritis in dogs and other carnivores. Junctional adhesion molecule-1 (JAM-1), a transmembrane tight junction (TJ)-associated biological macromolecule belonging to the immunoglobulin superfamily, plays essential roles in epithelial barrier maintenance and host-pathogen interactions. However, the involvement of JAM-1 during CPV-2 replication remains unclear. In this study, we investigated the dynamic regulation of TJ proteins and the antiviral role of JAM-1 during in vitro co-culture with CPV-2. CPV-2 treatment induced a biphasic regulation of TJ-associated proteins, characterized by an early decrease (6-12 h post co-culture) followed by a later increase (48-72 h post co-culture). During the early stage, the expression of claudin-4 (CLDN4), occludin (OCLN), and JAM-1 decreased to 68%, 51%, and 66% of control levels, respectively. At later time points, CLDN1, CLDN4, OCLN, and JAM-1 were increased by 1.53-, 2.23-, 2.08-, and 2.01-fold, respectively. Co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) and glutathione-S-transferase (GST) pull-down assays demonstrated interactions between the CPV-2 VP2 capsid protein and several TJ proteins (TJs), including CLDN1, OCLN, and JAM-1. Functional analyses showed that JAM-1 overexpression markedly reduced VP2 protein levels and viral DNA abundance in vitro, whereas siRNA-mediated JAM-1 knockdown enhanced CPV-2 replication. Mechanistically, JAM-1 overexpression was associated with reduced viral attachment and the modulation of innate immune factors. Collectively, these findings identify JAM-1 as a key biological macromolecule involved in restricting CPV-2 replication in vitro and provide new insights into host factors mediating CPV-2-host interactions.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is a highly lethal brain tumor resistant to immunotherapy such as immune checkpoint inhibitors, partly because of an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment and blood-brain barrier (BBB) dysfunction. Although bevacizumab can remodel the tumor vasculature, the relationship between BBB-related vascular changes and immune cell infiltration in GBM remains poorly understood. We analyzed human isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH)-wildtype GBM tissues obtained after bevacizumab administration. Immunohistochemistry was performed for CD34 and plasmalemma vesicle-associated protein (PLVAP/PV-1), an endothelial marker associated with BBB disruption. Infiltrating T cells (CD3, CD8) and tumor-associated macrophages/microglia (TAMs; CD163) were also examined. PLVAP was broadly expressed in tumor vessels of untreated GBM and significantly reduced after bevacizumab administration, with marked downregulation in 3 of 10 treated cases. Among the 10 treated cases, significant increases in T-cell and cytotoxic T-lymphocyte infiltration were seen in PLVAP-low GBM compared with PLVAP-high GBM. TAM density did not differ significantly between groups but tended to be higher in the PLVAP-low group. These findings suggest that the bevacizumab-associated reduction of PLVAP expression is linked to increased T-cell infiltration in a subset of GBM cases. PLVAP may serve as an auxiliary histological marker for evaluating bevacizumab-related vascular/BBB remodeling in clinical specimens.© 2026. The Author(s).
Osteosarcoma (OS) suffers from stagnant survival rates due to high metastatic potential and genomic complexity. Here, we present a high-resolution single-cell transcriptomic atlas of the OS ecosystem using single-cell fixed RNA profiling (FLEX) of 40,401 cells across four clinical stages: treatment-naïve, post-chemotherapy, recurrent, and lung metastatic. We identified a metastasis-enriched malignant subpopulation, OB_3, characterized by aggressive transcriptional signatures and governed by ADAMTS12, which we validated as a prognostic marker for reduced overall survival. Functional in vitro experiments further demonstrated that ADAMTS12 silencing significantly reduced the migratory capacity of HOS and 143B OS cells and suppressed AKT and ERK phosphorylation, thereby supporting its role as an active driver of metastatic progression. Within the microenvironment, metastatic progression was defined by the emergence of RNASE1+ M2-like tumor-associated macrophages, an expansion of highly immunosuppressive S100A4+ regulatory T cells, and the specialization of PLVAP+ stalk endothelial cells driving tumor angiogenesis. Integrative interactome analysis revealed that these populations function as central coordinating hubs, utilizing MIF, SPP1, and Galectin signaling to orchestrate the metastatic niche. Our findings, validated across multiple external cohorts and tissue microarrays, delineate a coordinated multi-cellular network involving ADAMTS12+, RNASE1+, S100A4+, and PLVAP+ cells. This study clarifies how malignant and microenvironmental components co-evolve to facilitate systemic dissemination, providing a translational framework for precision risk stratification and the development of next-generation therapeutic strategies to counteract metastatic OS.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Myofibroblasts play a critical role in the progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), a major subtype of primary liver cancer.Bulk RNA-seq data were analyzed to identify core genes of relevant cell subpopulations. Next, cell clustering was performed based on public scRNA-seq data of HCC. Using the R package CellChat, receptor-ligand communication networks between myofibroblasts and other cell subtypes were characterized. Hub genes within HCC myofibroblast subpopulations were screened via hdWGCNA. Subsequently, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) from the bulk analysis were intersected with these hub genes. Machine learning algorithms were employed to select key genes to construct a nomogram. Finally, correlations in immune cell infiltration were analyzed.Six major cell subpopulations were identified from the scRNA-seq data, with prominent crosstalk observed between myofibroblasts and hepatocytes. Using hdWGCNA, 10 myofibroblastassociated co-expression modules were obtained, five of which were identified as functionally key modules. By intersecting the module hub genes with HCC-related DEGs, 15 overlapping genes were obtained. From these, four key genes were ultimately selected by machine learning algorithms: plasmalemma vesicle-associated protein (PLVAP), retinol binding protein 7 (RBP7), NADH dehydrogenase (Ubiquinone) 1 Alpha subcomplex subunit 4-like 2 (NDUFA4L2), and tropomyosin 2 (Beta) (TPM2). A nomogram integrating 6 imaging-histological features and PLVAP expression exhibited robust prediction capacity. All gene expressions were positively correlated with the infiltration of regulatory T cells (Tregs) and macrophage M0 and negatively correlated with the infiltration of neutrophils and monocytes.Myofibroblasts participate in extensive intercellular crosstalk in the HCC microenvironment, suggesting the potential value of myofibroblast-related biomarkers in HCC therapy.In this study, hub genes associated with myofibroblast programs in HCC were identified using scRNA-seq and hdWGCNA.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Prostate Cancer (PCa) is the most common male malignancy, and its initiation and progression may be influenced by environmental pollutants such as di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP).Potential targets of DEHP were retrieved from ChEMBL, SwissTargetPrediction, and PharmMapper databases. DEHP-related genes correlated with PCa were identified by intersecting the DEHP target gene set with PCa-associated genes. Machine learning approaches were employed to identify and characterize the core genes linked to PCa. SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) analysis was used to evaluate model interpretability. Molecular docking was performed to assess the binding interactions between DEHP and the key target proteins. Cellular validation was performed using CCK-8 assay, quantitative reverse transcription PCR (RT-qPCR), and western blot analysis.A total of 53 genes were identified as potential actionable targets of DEHP in PCa pathobiology. Through machine learning, these genes were reduced to 12 genes (ACACB, CD200, FERMT2, GCNT1, GNAI2, GSTM2, IMPDH2, ITGA2, MMP26, PMM2, PRKCA, and SRD5A2), which exhibited distinct dysregulation patterns in PCa tissues. Furthermore, molecular simulation docking simulations demonstrated its robust binding interactions with key targets, including PMM2, ITGA2, GSTM2, IMPDH2, and PRKCA, warranting further experimental validation.DEHP, an industrial chemical, may contribute to PCa via multiple pathways. A 12-gene model for DEHP-associated PCa was identified, among which PMM2 may play a key role in mediating oncogenic effects via metabolic, redox, and signaling reprogramming.The findings indicated that DEHP can influence the development of PCarelated pathways through targeting specific genes and signaling, exhibiting the potential to serve as a biomarker to assess the risk of PCa related to DEHP exposure.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42251214
Background/Objectives: The androgen receptor (AR)-driven transcriptional program plays a pivotal role in the development and progression of prostate cancer. The binding of androgen dihydrotestosterone (DHT) to AR initiates transcriptional activation, thereby altering the transcriptional landscape. DHT-induced long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been recognized as crucial players in prostate cancer pathogenesis. This study aims to identify and explore the important role of such lncRNAs in prostate cancer. Methods: This study first analyzed transcriptome data from an androgen-dependent cell line, LNCaP, treated with different DHT concentrations and found a batch of lncRNAs exhibiting DHT concentration dependence. TCGA data suggested a correlation between the DHT-induced lncRNA and prostate cancer. Finally, a series of in vivo and in vitro experiments confirmed the effect and mechanism of lncRNA in prostate cancer. Results: AC092718.4 was highly expressed in AR-positive prostate cancer cell lines and tissues, and its expression in patients with Gleason scores 6-9 was significantly higher than in a normal control group. Notably, the expression level of AC092718.4 was upregulated in a concentration-dependent manner with DHT. In vitro experiments revealed that overexpression of AC092718.4 promoted cell proliferation and inhibited cell apoptosis. Conversely, knockdown of AC092718.4 suppressed tumorigenesis in vivo. Furthermore, our investigation into the pathogenetic mechanism demonstrated that AC092718.4 could act as an miRNA sponge for miR-138-5p, attenuating its inhibitory effect on downstream oncogenes, such as FERMT2, RHOC, and HIF1A. These AC092718.4/miR-138-5p/mRNA axes, in turn, facilitated the progression of prostate cancer. Conclusions: For the first time, we demonstrate that AC092718.4 may function as an oncogenic factor in prostate cancer. The AC0927.8.4/miR-138-5p/mRNA axes potentially offer promising diagnostic and therapeutic targets for prostate cancer.
Cervical cancer (CC) is an alarming global health problem, with predominantly higher incidence, lethal progression, and mortality among women of African ancestry (AA) than women of European ancestry (EA). Although persistent high-risk human papillomavirus (HPV) integration and infection are the key etiological factors, currently available evidence implicates epigenetic reprogramming as a prime contributor to ancestry-associated differences in CC pathogenesis. To address these disparities, we performed genome-wide DNA methylation profiling of HPV-positive cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) lesions from AA (n = 15) and EA (n = 15) women. Differential methylation analysis identified a distinct epigenomic landscape in AA-CIN lesions, with widespread hypermethylation and hypomethylation at promoter-associated and regulatory CpG sites. Pathway enrichment analyses highlighted dysregulation of ECM-receptor interaction, focal adhesion, PI3K-Akt, MAPK, Ras, Rap1, and RUNX-dependent transcriptional networks. Comparative analysis across CIN grades (CIN1-CIN3) revealed progressive epigenetic reprogramming affecting cell cycles, cytoskeletal dynamics, signaling, and metabolic pathways. Among hypermethylated tumor suppressor genes, SH3GL2 and ARHGAP25 showed significantly higher methylation in AA lesions, accompanied by concomitant loss of their protein expression. MBD1, a methylation-binding regulator, was upregulated in AA-CIN lesions, coinciding with global loss of 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC), suggesting enhanced transcriptional repression. In contrast, EA lesions retained protein expression and 5hmC levels. Collectively, these findings indicate that early, ancestry-specific epigenetic modifications target tumor suppressor pathways and converge on oncogenic signaling, cytoskeletal remodeling, and cell-cell adhesion. Our study provides mechanistic insight into CC health disparities, identifying SH3GL2 and ARHGAP25 hypermethylation as potential biomarkers, and highlighting epigenetic regulation as a contributor to disparate CC progression in AA women.
Considering that the circulating proteome represents a primary source of candidate biomarkers and therapeutic targets, we conducted a large-scale Mendelian randomization (MR) study to identify plasma proteins potentially involved in the pathogenesis and treatment of common urological cancers (UCs), including bladder cancer (BC), prostate cancer (PC), renal cell carcinoma (RCC), and testicular cancer (TC). Cis-protein quantitative trait loci (cis-pQTLs) were derived from two large-scale genome-wide association studies (GWASs) of plasma proteomes. GWAS for UCs were obtained from FinnGen and pan-UKBB meta-analysis, FinnGen and UK Biobank. Colocalization analysis and summary data-based MR (SMR) were performed to evaluate the robustness of the associations. Further evaluations involved Bulk RNA-seq differential expression and single cell-type expression analysis, protein–protein interaction, and druggability evaluation. For BC, we identified four protein markers: one associated with increased risk (PSCA) and three with decreased risk (GSTM1, GSTM3, GSTM4), which are mainly expressed in pericyte, urothelial, and NK cells in bladder tumors. Regarding PC, we found 15 protein markers: seven linked to increased risk (AGER, ALAD, CHMP2B, PEX14, ZG16B, PPP1R14A, SERPINA3) and eight to decreased risk (BTN2A1, CEACAM21, DNAJB9, MSMB, PYGL, HLA-E, SOD2, TOR1AIP1), enriched in epithelial cells, monocytes/macrophages in prostate tumors. The strongest evidence from MR and colocalization analyses supported GSTM4 (BC), SOD2 and CHMP2B (PC) as causal markers. Notably, seven identified proteins have been previously targeted by drugs for other cancers and immune disorders, indicating their potential therapeutic relevance in UCs. This study highlights several proteins with predictive value for BC and PC risk and supports their utility in biomarker discovery and drug development.
Chronic active antibody-mediated rejection (caABMR) is a major cause of late kidney allograft failure, yet reliable histological indicators of microvascular injury and therapeutic response remain insufficient. Complement C4d deposition reflects complement activation but does not fully capture endothelial remodelling, particularly in ABO-incompatible transplantation. Plasmalemma vesicle-associated protein-1 (PV-1), encoded by PLVAP and normally absent from glomerular endothelium, is upregulated during endothelial remodelling. We investigated whether glomerular PV-1 complements C4d in identifying active endothelial injury in caABMR.A total of 429 allograft biopsies from 126 patients with caABMR and 345 surveillance biopsies from 94 stable recipients were analysed. Glomerular PV-1 and C4d immunofluorescence intensities were quantified and correlated with histopathological lesions, renal function, and donor-specific antibodies, with stratification by ABO compatibility. Both PV-1 and C4d were associated with microvascular inflammation and transplant glomerulopathy. While C4d reflected cumulative complement activation and showed staining in ABO-incompatible grafts, PV-1 specifically identified endothelial remodelling, particularly in lesions with double-contour formation, and demonstrated dynamic reduction following B-cell-directed therapy. Low-vacuum scanning electron microscopy correlated with the presence of de novo PV-1 expression in glomerular endothelial cells. In multivariable Cox models incorporating ΔPV-1 and ΔC4d with clinical covariates, ΔPV-1 remained independently associated with death-censored graft survival, whereas ΔC4d did not.Glomerular PV-1 functions as a dynamic marker of endothelial remodelling that complements the static C4d footprint of complement activation. Combined assessment of PV-1 and C4d captures distinct dimensions of microvascular pathology and may refine histopathological evaluation of injury and treatment response in caABMR.© 2026 The Author(s). Histopathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41996197 is a review article
Young adults with normal conventional audiograms may nonetheless show early noise-related auditory differences that routine surveillance misses. We evaluated a clinically feasible test battery using 280 occupationally noise-exposed workers and 100 age-matched low-noise controls (20-40 years; ≤20 dB HL at 0.5-8 kHz). Measures included conventional and extended high-frequency (EHF; 9-16 kHz) audiometry, distortion-product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs; 0.5-10 kHz), ipsilateral acoustic reflex thresholds (ARTs; 0.5, 1, and 2 kHz; 226-Hz probe tone), click-evoked auditory brainstem responses (ABR; wave I, wave V, and V/I ratio at 50 and 90 dBnHL), and Mandarin Bamford-Kowal-Bench speech-in-noise testing (SiN). Noise-exposed participants showed elevated ARTs at all elicitor frequencies, with the largest elevation at 2 kHz, as well as poorer EHF thresholds and lower DPOAE levels. In contrast, click-evoked ABR metrics did not differ between groups. After controlling for conventional-frequency pure-tone average (PTA4; 0.5, 1, 2, and 4 kHz) and extended high-frequency pure-tone average (PTAEHF; 9-16 kHz), lower DPOAE amplitudes were associated with higher ARTs. ARTs were not significantly associated with SiN performance, quantified as the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) required for 50% correct recognition (SNR-50), cumulative noise exposure, or ABR measures. The noise-exposed group showed higher SNR-50 values, indicating poorer speech-in-noise performance. Within the noise-exposed group, SNR-50 was associated with PTA4 and cumulative noise exposure, whereas its association with PTAEHF was weaker and did not remain significant after correction for multiple comparisons. Together, these findings suggest that cochlear-status measures, conventional ARTs, and functional SiN performance provide complementary information beyond the conventional audiogram in occupational hearing surveillance.
Warm conveyor belts (WCBs) are key ascending airstreams in extratropical cyclones that shape midlatitude moisture transport and precipitation. Here we show that WCB activity is tightly linked to the large-scale transformed Eulerian-mean (TEM) circulation in Northern Hemisphere winter. The climatological WCB frequency aligns with the rising branch of the TEM circulation, and the two exhibit strong day-to-day covariability. Variations in WCB activity correspond systematically to changes in large-scale eddy fluxes: enhanced eddy momentum flux (EMF) shifts WCB activity poleward through changes in ascent rate, while enhanced eddy heat flux (EHF) primarily strengthens WCB activity downstream over the Pacific, with little meridional displacement. WCBs account for up to 89% of EMF-related and 56% of EHF-related precipitation anomalies, with the exact fraction varying by latitude. These results demonstrate that the TEM framework provides insight into the zonal-mean imprint of WCB activity and associated precipitation, and how these relationships may change in the future.© The Author(s) 2026.
Brown mushroom stem (BMS), a nutrient-rich by-product of the mushroom processing industry, represents a potential sustainable feed ingredient for poultry. However, its effects on intestinal morphology and barrier-related gene expression in layer chicks are not well characterized. This study evaluated the influence of dietary BMS on ileal morphology and intestinal barrier-related gene expression in layer chicks. A total of 160 Lohmann LSL Lite chicks were randomly allocated to 4 dietary treatments: a control diet and control diets containing 2%, 4%, or 6% BMS as partial replacements for soybean meal on an equivalent basis, respectively. Each treatment had 5 replicates with 8 birds per replicate, and the trial lasted 36 d. Ileal samples were collected for histomorphological evaluation and quantitative real-time PCR of barrier-associated genes, including claudin-1 (CLDN1), occludin (OCLN), tight junction protein 1 (TJP1), tight junction protein 2 (TJP2), and mucin-2 (MUC2). Data were analyzed using one-way ANOVA, and orthogonal polynomial contrasts were applied to determine linear and quadratic responses to increasing BMS inclusion levels. Villus height decreased in BMS-fed groups compared with the control (linear and quadratic effects, p < 0.001), whereas crypt depth showed a quadratic response with the lowest value at 4% BMS (p < 0.001). Expression of CLDN1 mRNA was significantly elevated at 2% BMS but declined at higher inclusion levels (quadratic effect, p = 0.001). In contrast, TJP2 mRNA expression decreased with increasing BMS inclusion (linear effect, p = 0.009). No significant differences were observed for OCLN, TJP1, or MUC2 mRNA expression (p > 0.05). A composite index of barrier-related gene expression was numerically the highest at 2% BMS supplementation but did not differ significantly among treatments. These findings suggest that low dietary inclusion of BMS may support intestinal barrier-related gene expression in layer chicks, although higher levels may alter intestinal morphology without corresponding changes in barrier-related gene expression. Optimizing BMS inclusion could support sustainable poultry production by utilizing mushroom processing by-products as an alternative feed ingredient.
Progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis (PFIC) is classically caused by biallelic pathogenic variants, yet monoallelic variants of uncertain significance (VUS) in PFIC-associated genes are increasingly identified in children with cholestasis, creating diagnostic uncertainty. We conducted a multicenter cohort study of children with liver disease and/or cholestasis harboring monoallelic VUS in ATP8B1, ABCB11, ABCB4, TJP2, or NR1H4. Clinical and longitudinal data were analyzed, and variant frequencies were compared with population data from gnomAD. Twenty-six children with 37 monoallelic PFIC-gene VUS met inclusion criteria, and multigenic variant burden was common (73.1%). PFIC-like biochemical patterns were observed in 42.3% but were frequently transient, and no patient met criteria for monogenic PFIC on longitudinal follow-up. Severe liver outcomes, including transplantation in two patients, occurred in a subset of patients with ABCB4 and/or ATP8B1 VUS and multigenic burden, along with competing clinical factors. Among 22 variants with population data, 11 (50%) demonstrated significant enrichment after multiple-testing correction, most commonly involving ABCB4. These findings suggest that monoallelic PFIC-associated variants currently classified as VUS are unlikely to represent monogenic disease drivers in isolation and may instead contribute within multigenic or susceptibility-based contexts. Population-level enrichment, particularly involving ABCB4, further supports careful phenotype-anchored, longitudinal interpretation in pediatric liver disease.© 2026 The Author(s). American Journal of Medical Genetics Part A published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
This study investigated the effects of dietary taurine (Tau) supplementation on growth performance, antioxidant capacity, intestinal barrier function, and gut microbiota in yellow-feathered broilers exposed to post-hatch transport stress (TS). A total of 180 one-d-old chicks (initial body weight 35.93 ± 0.26 g) were randomly divided into five treatments, with six replicates each group and six birds each replicate, including control, TS, TS + 0.25% Tau, TS + 0.50% Tau, and TS + 0.75% Tau. The experiment lasted for two weeks. Compared with the control, post-hatch TS reduced final body weight (BW), average daily gain (ADG), plasma catalase (CAT) activity, and villus height (VH) in duodenum and ileum at d 7, while increasing plasma aspartate aminotransferase (AST) activity, cortisol level at d 7 and jejunal relative mRNA expression levels of HSP40, HSP70, and HSP90 (P < 0.05). Compared with the TS group, dietary Tau supplementation significantly increased final BW, ADG, plasma glucose level at d 14, CAT activity, duodenal VH at d 7, but decreased plasma AST activity and duodenal crypt depth at d 14 (P < 0.05). Meanwhile, compared with the TS group, the relative mRNA expression levels of TJP1, TJP2, LC3Ⅰ, LC3Ⅱ, and PRKN in the jejunum were upregulated, and the jejunal relative mRNA expression levels of HSP40 were downregulated by TS + 0.50% Tau (P < 0.05). Compared with the TS group, the gut microbiome analysis revealed that TS + 0.50% Tau significantly improved the cecal microbial Shannon and Simpson indexes (P < 0.05). Compared with TS group, dietary Tau supplementation increased the relative abundance of Firmicutes at d 7, Defluviitaleaceae _UCG-011, Shuttleworthia, and Subdoligranulumat at d 14, and decreased the relative abundance of Proteobacteria at d 7 and 14 (P < 0.05). Spearman correlation analysis revealed that the ADG during d 1 to 14 and plasma CAT activity positively correlated with the relative abundance of Shuttleworthia and Defluviitaleaceae _UCG-011, while plasma CAT activity and LC3Ⅰ and LC3Ⅱ relative mRNA expression negatively correlated with the relative abundance of Proteobacteria and Escherichia-Shigella (P < 0.05). Collectively, dietary Tau supplementation improved growth performance, antioxidant capacity, and intestinal barrier integrity in yellow-feathered broilers subjected to post-hatch TS, which might be linked to the alterations of gut microbiota.© 2026 Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd.
Background: Hydrolyzed rice formulas (HRFs) are increasingly recognized as an alternative nutritional option for infants with cow's milk protein allergy (CMPA), but real-world data on prescribing patterns and early clinical evolution remain limited. Objective: This study aimed to describe real-world use and prescribing patterns of HRF and eHF in infants with CMPA, identify factors associated with HRF recommendation, and assess short-term clinical evolution after formula use. Methods: This observational analysis from the ETAPA project included two mutually exclusive infant-level cohorts: a prospective recommendation cohort assessing variables associated with HRF versus eHF recommendation, and a retrospective treated cohort assessing 7-day clinical evolution after formula use. In the retrospective cohort, the main clinical outcome was absolute change in CoMiSS from day 0 to day 7. A propensity score-weighted sensitivity analysis was performed to address measured confounding by indication. Results: Overall, 1505 valid infant-level records were analyzed: 1094 in the prospective cohort and 411 in the retrospective cohort. In the prospective cohort, HRF was recommended in 214/1094 records (19.6%). In multi-variable analysis, older infant age was associated with higher odds of HRF recommendation (OR 1.034 per month, 95% CI 1.002-1.067; p = 0.036), whereas IgE-mediated CMPA was associated with lower odds (OR 0.673, 95% CI 0.459-0.988; p = 0.043). In the retrospective cohort, CoMiSS decreased markedly in both groups (eHF: median reduction 7.0 [IQR 4.0-10.0] points; HRF: 6.5 [4.0-10.0] points; p = 0.661). After adjustment, HRF was not associated with a statistically significant difference in absolute CoMiSS reduction compared with eHF (β -0.513 points, 95% CI -1.108 to 0.082; p = 0.091). Conclusions: In routine pediatric practice, HRF was used across a broad range of CMPA profiles and was associated with clinically relevant short-term symptom improvement. These findings support HRF as an additional nutritional option for CMPA management, while the observational design precludes conclusions of equivalence or non-inferiority versus eHF.
Understanding the relationship between extended high-frequency (EHF) hearing and middle ear muscle reflex (MEMR) function may clarify how variations in cochlear health affect auditory reflexes, providing insight into subclinical auditory deficits and potential early markers of hearing loss. In this study, the authors examined whether elevated EHF thresholds are associated with reduced MEMR growth in adults with clinically normal audiograms. The authors hypothesized that individuals with higher EHF thresholds would exhibit shallower MEMR growth functions despite normal thresholds in the conventional frequency range.Eighty-three young adults (aged 18 to 34 years; 166 ears) completed audiometric testing, lifetime noise exposure assessment using the Noise Exposure Structured Interview, tympanometry, and ipsilateral MEMR measurements. MEMR thresholds and growth functions were measured using a broadband noise elicitor and modeled using both linear and segmented regression approaches. Linear mixed-effects models examined associations between standard and EHF hearing thresholds and MEMR outcomes, controlling for covariates.Age, but not lifetime noise exposure, was significantly associated with elevated EHF thresholds (p < 0.001). Neither standard frequency nor EHF thresholds were significantly related to MEMR thresholds. However, poorer EHF sensitivity was associated with significantly shallower MEMR growth functions, indicating reduced reflex strength in ears with EHF loss despite a clinically normal audiogram. Segmented regression revealed clear MEMR growth function breakpoints in both groups, with the EHF loss group showing a lower breakpoint and overall shallower growth. No significant effects of noise exposure were observed for MEMR threshold and slope.In young adults with clinically normal audiograms, elevated EHF thresholds were associated with shallower MEMR growth, while MEMR thresholds were relatively insensitive to variation in EHF hearing. As MEMR has been used to infer cochlear synaptopathy, these findings indicate that subclinical differences indexed by EHF hearing are significantly associated with MEMR growth characteristics. This pattern suggests that MEMR changes may not uniquely reflect synaptopathy but may also arise from basal cochlear influences.Copyright © 2026 The American Auditory Society.
Platinum-based chemotherapy is widely used in cancer care but carries a substantial risk of cochleotoxicity and vestibulotoxicity. This study aimed to characterize early (3-month) and long-term (1-year) auditory and vestibular effects of platinum derivatives in adults, with the goal of improving monitoring strategies.A total of 110 adults (34-81 years; 63 female) received cisplatin (n = 73), carboplatin (n = 22), or sequential cisplatin followed by carboplatin (ciscarbo; n = 15). Assessments at baseline, 3 months, and 1 year included conventional and extended high-frequency (EHF) audiometry, distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs), speech perception, auditory brainstem response (ABR), and envelope following response (EFR). Vestibular testing comprised vHIT and cVEMP. Ototoxicity was classified using ASHA (1994) and graded with TUNE. Linear mixed models assessed treatment- and time-related changes.Cisplatin induced significant threshold shifts across the audiogram, including low, mid, high, and extended high frequencies, with progression up to 1 year. Low- and mid-frequency thresholds remained largely stable in the carboplatin group, while the ciscarbo group showed early mid- and EHF deterioration. EHF thresholds increased across all groups. ASHA-defined ototoxicity was present in 73.5% at 3 months and > 90% at 1 year. DPOAEs revealed early, progressive OHC dysfunction, and ABR and EFR indicated neural involvement, particularly after cisplatin. Speech perception remained stable, and no significant vestibular deficits were detected.Cisplatin induces broad, progressive cochleotoxicity, while carboplatin produces milder, delayed effects. EHF audiometry, DPOAEs, and electrophysiological measures enhance early detection. Combining behavioral and objective markers with standardized grading supports comprehensive ototoxicity monitoring.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Association for Research in Otolaryngology.
Sepsis, a common lethal complication of post-trauma, hinges on early detection and diagnosis for effective treatment. The involvement of RalA in regulating inflammatory diseases has been noted, yet its specific relationship with sepsis remains unclear. This study aimed to identify specific biomarkers for post-traumatic sepsis by developing a composite early-warning model incorporating various biomarkers, including RalA. Such a strategy is of significant clinical importance, enabling preemptive measures in managing traumatic sepsis, thereby enhancing treatment outcomes.Since July 2019, laboratory variables were collected from trauma patients within 24 hours after admission, for a total of 11 variables. Plasma RalA expression was measured via ELISA. Using random stratified sampling, 243 patients from Center A were divided into a training cohort (n=170) and an internal validation cohort (n=73) at a 7:3 ratio. Features related to traumatic sepsis were identified using Boruta, LASSO, and univariate logistic regression. Based on these selected common features, a predictive model for traumatic sepsis was developed employing six traditional machine learning classifiers and one proprietary classifier. An external validation cohort of 84 patients from Center B was used. Model performance was assessed by AUC, and diagnostic metrics such as specificity, sensitivity, and accuracy were calculated.A total of 327 patients from two centers participated in this study. The QuadraSynth ML model developed in this research demonstrated favorable diagnostic performance in the primary cohort, with an AUC of 0.902. The AUC for the internal validation cohort was 0.836, and for the external validation cohort, it was 0.840.Admission RalA levels represent a promising candidate biomarker for early sepsis detection, but further prospective validation is required. The newly developed QuadraSynth ML model exhibits encouraging ability to identify sepsis early in patients with severe trauma.Copyright © 2026 Shen, Huang, Li, Li, Du, Wen, Zhao, Li, Jiang and Zhang.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the predominant subtype of lung malignancy. Accumulating epidemiological evidence demonstrates that environmental lead (Pb) exposure as a critical driver of its initiation and progression.This study integrated network pharmacology, molecular docking, and in vitro assays to investigate the oncogenic effects of low-concentration Pb on A549 cells and explore the potential therapeutic mechanisms of osthole and matrine.Network pharmacology identified key potential signaling pathways, and molecular docking screened genes with higher binding affinity to the target. MTT assay was used to determine CC50, maximum safe concentration (MNTC) and cellular proliferative capacity of Pb, matrine and osthole. Scratch test and Matrigel invasion test detected A549 cell migration and invasion; flow cytometry detected apoptosis, ∆Ψm, ROS and cell cycle. qRT-PCR and Western blot measured gene expression levels.Network pharmacology analysis showed that the shared targets of osthole, Pb and NSCLC were mainly enriched in the PI3K/AKT and apoptosis pathways, while matrine, Pb, and NSCLC targets were primarily enriched in cancer metabolism, key hub genes included CDK2, CASP9, IKBKB, PDPK1 and MDM2. Molecular docking demonstrated that osthole showed strong binding to HSD11B1 and CDK2, while matrine exhibited high affinity for DRD4 and CDK2. Considering the essential functions of CDK2 in G1 phase transition, PDPK1, IKBKB, and CASP9 in cell survival, inflammatory signaling, and mitochondrial apoptosis, and MDM2 in p53-mediated cell cycle regulation, phenotypic validation experiments were conducted. Pb exposure significantly enhanced malignant characteristics of A549 cells, including increased migratory and invasive abilities, decreased apoptosis, and a significant reduction in mitochondrial membrane potential. At the molecular level, Pb exposure disrupted cellular homeostasis, as reflected by altered expression of SIRT-1, NRF-1, TGF-β1, Smad, STAT3, STAT1, and mtTFA. Treatment with osthole or matrine effectively reversed all lead-induced abnormalities.Taken together, osthole or matrine exerts anti-cancer effects against Pb- promoted NSCLC progression by restoring disrupted cellular homeostasis through modulating cell cycle progression, inhibiting Pb-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and stress-related signaling imbalance.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Xanthogranulomatous epithelial tumour (XGET) is a recently described, rare mesenchymal neoplasm characterized by a HMGA2::NCOR2 gene fusion. We report a case of primary intraosseous XGET in the calcaneus of a 32-year-old female presenting with a 10-month history of heel pain. Initial differential diagnosis based on imaging features of the lytic calcaneal lesion included giant cell tumour of bone (GCTB) and solid aneurysmal bone cyst (sABC). Histopathology revealed a bland appearing lesion with xanthomatous histiocytes and giant cells, but immunohistochemistry showed diffuse cytokeratin positivity. Definitive diagnosis was established via molecular confirmation of the HMGA2::NCOR2 fusion and absence of H3F3A and USP6 alterations. This case documents the radiological features of a rare entity that mimics common bone tumours and emphasizes the role of molecular pathology in distinguishing XGET from other more frequent giant cell-rich lesions.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to International Skeletal Society (ISS).
Adeno-associated virus (AAV) gene therapy is frequently hindered by dose-limiting toxicities and preexisting neutralizing antibodies (nAbs). Here, we evaluate enhancer polymer (ePL), a cargo-less poly(L-lactic-co-glycolic acid) nanoparticle, the systemic administration of which demonstrated biocompatibility in nonhuman primates (NHPs) and generated a protransduction serum secretome that significantly enhanced AAV uptake in human iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes. Proteomic analysis of human peripheral blood mononuclear cell-derived secretomes identified a transient upregulation of AAV-entry factors, including ITGB3, alongside a downregulation of inflammatory cytokine pathways. Mechanistically, ePL-stimulated macrophages release a paracrine secretome that triggers the rapid, transient degradation of hepatic insulin receptor substrate 2 and subsequent AKT inhibition in liver and isolated primary mouse hepatocytes. Additionally, ePL attenuated the levels of NHP-derived nAbs in vitro and in a mouse-NHP xenotransfusion model without depleting total systemic immunoglobulins. Finally, ePL reduced Immunoglobulin G (IgG) secretory capacity of splenic B cells, suggesting a mechanistic link by which levels of nAbs are likely attenuated. Together, these findings highlight ePL as a promising supporting agent to improve AAV gene transfer, warranting its further optimization for clinical translation.
Posterior capsular opacification (PCO) is a common complication of cataract surgery and is strongly associated with the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of lens epithelial cells (LECs). Integrin β3 (ITGB3) has been implicated in various pathological processes; however, its role in PCO remains insufficiently understood.To investigate the regulatory role of ITGB3 in PCO progression and determine whether ITGB3 modulates transforming growth factor-β2 (TGF-β2)-induced migration and EMT in human lens epithelial cells.Human lens epithelial HLE-B3 cells were treated with transforming growth factor-β2 (TGF-β2; 10 ng/mL) to establish an in vitro model of PCO. ITGB3 expression at the mRNA and protein levels was assessed using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and western blotting. Cell proliferation was evaluated using the 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) assay, while cell migration was assessed using transwell and wound-healing assays.TGF-β2 stimulation significantly increased ITGB3 expression in HLE-B3 cells. Silencing of ITGB3 significantly reduced the proliferation of TGF-β2-treated cells and inhibited their migratory capacity, as demonstrated by both transwell and wound-healing assays. Exposure to TGF-β2 promoted EMT, whereas ITGB3 knockdown reversed this effect. Furthermore, activation of the TGF-β/Smad2/3 signaling pathway induced by TGF-β2 was attenuated following ITGB3 silencing.Knockdown of ITGB3 alleviates TGF-β2-induced migration and EMT in HLE-B3 cells by suppressing the TGF-β/Smad2/3 signaling pathway, supporting ITGB3 as a potential therapeutic target for the prevention and treatment of PCO.
Uric acid metabolism is associated with the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), cardiometabolic, and cardiovascular diseases. Additionally, T2DM patients often exhibit mild cognitive impairment (MCI). However, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study aims to identify and validate biomarkers associated with uric acid metabolism in T2DM and MCI, with the goal of discovering potential diagnostic and therapeutic targets to improve the quality of life for T2DM patients. Transcriptomic data for T2DM, MCI and uric acid metabolism-related genes were sourced from public databases. Biomarkers were screened using machine learning and validated for expression. Subsequent analyses included functional enrichment, immune infiltration, subcellular localization, and drug prediction. Three biomarkers-HP, ITGB3, and SELP-were identified. All showed significantly elevated expression in the T2DM group (p < 0.05). HP and ITGB3 were primarily enriched in ribosome-related pathways, primary immunodeficiency, and adherens junction processes. Immune infiltration analysis revealed that immature B cells and plasmacytoid dendritic cells were significantly enriched in T2DM. HP showed the strongest positive correlation with plasmacytoid dendritic cells (cor = 0.65, FDR <0.05), while ITGB3 exhibited the strongest positive correlation with immature B cells (cor = 0.76, FDR <0.05). Several potential therapeutic drugs were predicted, including calcifediol (score = -99.93) and meclofenamic acid (score = -99.89). This study identified three candidate biomarkers co-dysregulated across T2DM and MCI transcriptomes and associated with uric acid metabolism. Given the exploratory sample sizes, these findings are considered hypothesis-generating and require validation in larger independent cohorts.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Kang and Lei.
Coronary heart disease (CHD) is a global cardiovascular disease with high morbidity and mortality, and its complex pathological mechanism poses great challenges to clinical prevention and treatment. Paeoniflorin (PA), a monoterpene glycoside active ingredient from Ranunculaceae plants, has shown potential in cardiovascular protection, but its specific anti-CHD molecular targets and systematic regulatory networks remain unclear. In this study, a mouse model of CHD was established, and a multi-omics strategy combining label-free quantitative proteomics and metabolomics was adopted to explore the mechanism of PA in treating CHD. The results showed that PA significantly improved cardiac function, alleviated myocardial pathological injury and fibrosis, and regulated lipid metabolism in CHD model mice, with the high-dose group showing the optimal effect. Proteomic analysis identified 51 key differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) reversed by PA, which were mainly enriched in complement and coagulation cascades, and neutrophil extracellular trap formation pathways, with the C3-Cfd-C3aR signaling axis as the core hub. Further verification confirmed that PA could downregulate the expression of C3, Cfd, C3aR, and their downstream molecule BTK, thereby inhibiting myocardial inflammatory response and cardiomyocyte apoptosis. In addition, PA downregulated the expression of platelet activation markers ITGA2B/ITGB3. Metabolomic analysis revealed that PA reversed 57 abnormal metabolites in CHD mice, which were enriched in GABAergic synapse, retrograde endocannabinoid signaling and other pathways. Molecular docking confirmed that PA could stably bind to C3, Cfd, C3aR, BTK, and ITGA2B/ITGB3 with strong binding activity. In conclusion, PA exerts anti-CHD effects through a multi-target and multi-pathway synergism, mainly by targeting the C3-Cfd-C3aR axis to inhibit inflammation, apoptosis and platelet activation, and regulating metabolic disorders. This study provides experimental evidence and theoretical support for the clinical application of PA as a multi-target therapeutic drug for CHD.
Nodular fasciitis (NF) and aneurysmal bone cyst (ABC) are uncommon entities that can mimic malignant neoplasms and be challenging to diagnose. Molecularly, the majority of NF and ABC cases are characterized by USP6 rearrangements, which result in a promoter swap and aberrant upregulation of USP6 RNA. While fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) can be used to confirm USP6 rearrangement, it often requires multiple days to complete. Here, we examine if USP6 RNA chromogenic in situ hybridization (CISH) could aid in the diagnosis of NF and ABC. We found that USP6 RNA CISH was positive in 89% (16/18) of NF cases and 58% (7/12) of ABC cases. Importantly, in histologic mimics of NF and ABC, USP6 RNA CISH was negative. USP6 FISH or next-generation sequencing was performed on all NF and ABC cases, one consult case diagnosed as benign fibroblastic neoplasm with associated ossification, and a subset of histologic mimics to assess for USP6 rearrangements. Ninety-two percent (22/24) of cases with USP6 rearrangement also demonstrated positive USP6 RNA CISH staining, while 100% (19/19) of cases that were negative for USP6 rearrangement, including 2 NF, 4 ABC, and 13 histologic mimics, were also negative for USP6 RNA CISH. One case was inconclusive by FISH, but positive by CISH. Our results indicate that USP6 RNA CISH can serve as a useful tool in the diagnosis of NF and ABC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
This auricular hematoma task trainer is designed to instruct emergency medicine (EM) residents, fellows, and medical students. Otolaryngology trainees may also benefit from this simulator.Auricular hematomas are relatively infrequent but require timely intervention to prevent complications such as infection, cartilage necrosis, or permanent ear deformity ("cauliflower ear").1 Although these injuries make up only a small part of all otologic complaints in the emergency department, they are one of the most frequent ear injuries in contact sports, with wrestlers, boxers, and rugby players being the most at-risk.2 Not only can they occur in sports, one urban level I trauma review found 42% of auricular hematoma presentations were due to interpersonal violence or assault,3 making timely drainage a core skill now listed in the 2022 Model of the Clinical Practice of Emergency Medicine.4 EM residents often have limited opportunities to gain hands-on experience with this procedure in a controlled learning environment, with a low reported baseline confidence level highlighting a persistent training gap.5 Traditional models are expensive and single-use, with each one costing up to $60-100.6 This innovation was developed to address a training gap by providing a simple, affordable, and reproducible task trainer that enables learners to practice landmark identification, drainage, and post-procedure care of auricular hematomas with confidence.By the end of this session, learners will be able to: 1) identify the landmarks used to drain auricular hematomas, 2) demonstrate the ability to numb, incise, and drain an auricular hematoma, and 3) review methods for applying dressings to auricular hematomas.Residents were given a five-minute in-person demonstration of how an auricular hematoma is drained using one of the models. They were then able to walk through the steps of incising, draining, and dressing the ear themselves using material found in the emergency department. The EMRAP instructional video was reviewed by the attending conducting the demonstration prior to teaching.7.Eleven participants were instructed to incise and drain an auricular hematoma. The Michigan Standard Simulation Experience Scale (MiSSES) was used for anonymous feedback on the task trainer immediately after the simulation. Participants scored the simulator in five categories: Self-efficacy, fidelity, educational value, teaching quality, and the overall rating on a 5-point Likert scale, 1 = Strongly Disagree, 5 = Strongly Agree. The scale is a freely available, validated subjective-assessment tool created at the University of Michigan to standardize the evaluation of simulation-based education. In the scale, there are six domains for evaluation, and they demonstrated good internal consistency at initial psychometric testing.8 Variables were summarized using the mean and standard deviation.The eleven participants were composed of 7 PGY 1 EM residents and 4 EM attendings. They all completed the simulation and filled out the MiSSES form. Of the residents, none had any previous experience with auricular hematoma drainage. Of the attendings, all had done one previously, but none more than 3. Using the MiSSES, the model received an overall positive rating of 5.0. The highest rating was on teaching quality (5.0) and educational value (5.0). For fidelity, the trainer received a 4.9/5.Overall, the residents felt that this simulation was a good training tool for auricular hematoma, which is a lower occurrence but time-sensitive procedure. We created a reusable and cheap simulator model that scored high in a standard simulator's assessment survey.Auricular hematoma, incision and drainage, cauliflower ear.© 2026 Bailey, et al.
We report on an autologous hematopoietic progenitor cell collection via apheresis (HPC(A)) with adequate CD34+ pre-count and unexpectedly low collection efficiency resulting in a failed HPC(A) collection. The collection bag contained almost no buffy coat and the plasma was orange. We assess both collection and patient factors that may have contributed to this finding.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
In idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), inflammatory signaling and fibrotic remodeling often coexist, yet the mechanism linking these processes remains unclear. Numb, a cell fate determinant protein, has been implicated in tissue remodeling but its role in inflammation - fibrosis coupling is not well defined.Public transcriptomic datasets were analyzed to assess NUMB expression patterns and associated pathways. A bleomycin (BLM)-induced mouse model was used for in vivo validation. In vitro, MRC-5 fibroblasts were stimulated with IL-1β and TGF-β1, alone or in combination, followed by Numb siRNA intervention. Cell viability, migration, cytokine secretion, and fibrosis-related protein expression were evaluated.Transcriptomic analysis showed a non-significant but consistent upward trend of NUMB in IPF tissues (p = .18), with pathway-level enrichment in inflammatory and extracellular matrix processes. In BLM-treated mice, IL-1β and TGF-β1 levels were significantly increased (both p < .001), accompanied by upregulation of Numb (p < .05), α-SMA, and Collagen I (both p < .001). In vitro, IL-1β and TGF-β1 synergistically enhanced cell viability and migration (both p < .001), as well as protein expression (p < .001). Numb silencing reduced cytokine secretion (p < .001), cell activation (p < .05-0.001), and fibrosis-related protein expression (p < .001).Numb participates in coordinating inflammatory and fibrotic responses in IPF and may act as a regulatory mediator in inflammation - fibrosis coupling.
The commercial pork production sector prioritizes genetic improvements in lean meat percentage to enhance profitability and meet consumer preferences. The Pietrain pig, a premier terminal sire breed renowned for its exceptional muscularity and leanness, serves as an ideal model to decipher the genetic underpinnings of these traits. This study investigated two key measures of leanness, backfat thickness and loin muscle depth, in two distinct Pietrain populations to elucidate the genetic architecture underlying these traits. We estimated genetic parameters and performed a meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies, identifying ABCD4, LTBP2, NUMB, and SLC30A9 as candidate genes. To further investigate these associations, we integrated information on molecular quantitative trait loci from the PigGTEx project and single-cell transcriptomic resources. This integrative approach prioritized ABCD4 as a key candidate gene regulating backfat thickness. Functional validation in 3T3-L1 preadipocytes revealed a novel dual regulatory role for ABCD4: its knockdown suppressed cell proliferation while simultaneously stimulating adipogenic differentiation, as demonstrated by the upregulation of key markers. Our findings positioned ABCD4 as a critical modulator of fat deposition, likely through its influence on the core adipogenic transcriptional network. By establishing an analytical framework that integrates large-scale sequencing data from Pietrain pigs with functional validation, our study addresses a key gap in understanding the genetic basis of leanness and provides novel insights for precision breeding.© 2026 Stichting International Foundation for Animal Genetics.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42534835 is a review article
Amyrins arе pеntacyclic tritеrpеnoids with valuablе pharmacеutical and cosmеtic applications; howеvеr, thеir low abundancе in plants and complеx еxtraction procеssеs hindеr sustainablе supply. Hеrе, Yarrowia lipolytica was еnginееrеd to еnhancе α- and β-amyrin biosynthеsis using mеtabolic and еnzymе еnginееring stratеgiеs. First, thе multifunctional amyrin synthasе gеnе (CrMAS) from Catharanthus rosеus was intеgratеd into a superior squalene-producing chassis, еstablishing α-amyrin and β-amyrin production. Squalene epoxidase (ERG1) displayed low native activity and represented a major rate-limiting step in squalene conversion. Structure-guided engineering identified key activity-regulating residues, where T202V improved hydrophobic complementarity and substrate stabilization, and M308L relieved steric constraints at the substrate access tunnel. The T202V/M308L mutant enhanced catalytic efficiency, increasing squalene conversion and reducing its accumulation. Sеcond, thе copy numbеrs of ERG1 and CrMAS wеrе optimizеd, and еnhancеd NADPH supply increased α- and β-amyrin production, while decreasing squalene accumulation. Finally, thе glucosе ratio was optimizеd, and rеstoration of auxotrophic markеrs lеd to improvеd α-amyrin and β-amyrin titеrs of 220.81 ± 6.74 mg/L and 85.41 ± 2.61 mg/L, rеspеctivеly, through fed-batch fermentation in a 5 L fermenter, the titer 1.7 g/L α-amyrin and 0.5 g/L β-amyrin, which is the highest reported to date in Y. lipolytica. This study provides an effective framework for overcoming enzymatic bottlenecks and achieving sustainable microbial production of high-value pentacyclic triterpenoids.© 2026 The Authors.
Chemoresistance remains a critical barrier to the efficacy of oxaliplatin in colon cancer treatment. While the deubiquitinating enzyme USP46 is implicated in multiple tumor progression pathways, its specific role in oxaliplatin resistance remains undetermined. Our analysis reveals that USP46 is significantly overexpressed in colon cancer tissues, with its elevated expression correlating with poor clinical outcomes in colon cancer patients. Silencing USP46 suppresses both the proliferation and metastatic potential of colon cancer cells while simultaneously enhancing cellular sensitivity to the DNA-damaging agent oxaliplatin. Mechanistically, overexpression of USP46 leads to upregulation of nuclear RAD51 expression and facilitates the assembly of RAD51 foci, thereby increasing homologous recombination repair (HRR) capacity and contributing to oxaliplatin resistance in colon cancer cells. MCM7 is identified as a bona fide substrate of USP46 by LC-MS/MS profiling. Subsequent experiments confirm that USP46 specifically removes K48-linked polyubiquitin chains from MCM7, thereby stabilizing its protein expression. Rescue assays validate that USP46 modulates RAD51 expression and HRR function in an MCM7-dependent manner. Collectively, our study uncovers a novel USP46-MCM7-RAD51 signaling cascade that confers oxaliplatin resistance in colon cancer via augmentation of HRR-dependent DNA repair, thereby establishing this axis as a promising therapeutic target for overcoming oxaliplatin resistance.
Nipah virus (NiV) is a highly lethal zoonotic pathogen with significant pandemic potential, for which no approved antiviral therapies are currently available. Viral entry is mediated by the interaction between the NiV attachment glycoprotein (NiV-G) and host ephrin receptors, particularly ephrin-B2 (EFNB2) and ephrin-B3 (EFNB3), making this interface an attractive therapeutic target. In this study, we evaluated a set of structurally related flavonoids, apigenin, cynaroside, and lonicerin, as potential modulators of the EFNB2-NiV-G and EFNB3-NiV-G interactions. These compounds were selected based on their structural similarity, reported antiviral activity, chemical diversity, and favorable drug-like properties. Apigenin was employed as a reference scaffold due to its well-characterized pharmacological profile and its suitability for guiding analog-based compound selection. Apigenin served as a reference scaffold for selecting structurally related flavonoids, which were analyzed through density functional theory optimization, molecular docking, pharmacokinetic and toxicity predictions, molecular dynamics simulations, and binding free energy calculations. These flavonoids demonstrated high predicted affinity for both the EFNB2-NiV-G and EFNB3-NiV-G interfaces. According to results, these compounds consistently interacted with residues known to play a critical role in receptor recognition, with special emphasis on leucine and tryptophan residues within the G-H loop. These residues are well established as key determinants in the entry process of Nipah virus (NiV) into host cells, highlighting the potential relevance of these flavonoid-protein interactions. Molecular dynamics analyses indicated that flavonoid binding reduced the affinity and the conformational flexibility at the receptor-glycoprotein interfaces and decreased the stability of the complexes. Pharmacokinetic and toxicity predictions suggested favorable drug-like properties for the flavonoids, with apigenin displaying the most balanced profile. Collectively, these results support the potential of selected flavonoids as modulators of EFNB2-NiV-G and EFNB3-NiV-G interactions and provide a rationale for their prioritization in experimental studies aimed at developing scaffolds for the modulation of viral entry against Nipah virus.
Next-generation sequencing has accelerated the discovery of novel putative viruses in wildlife reservoirs, while identifying those with zoonotic potential remains challenging. In this study, we report the identification and characterization of Ailong virus, a novel putative henipavirus from previous bat metagenomes in China that utilizes human ephrin B2 (EFNB2) and EFNB3 as functional receptors. Using an integrated approach combining phylogenetic analysis, pseudotyped virus entry assays, antibody blockade assays, and structural modeling, we demonstrate that Ailong virus glycoprotein binds human EFNB2 and EFNB3 with high specificity, mediating pseudovirus entry into both human neuronal and respiratory epithelial cells. Structural analysis revealed the Ailong virus glycoprotein-EFNB2 interface closely resembling that of Nipah virus (NiV), with conservation of all critical receptor-binding residues. Moreover, AiV encodes an exceptionally large phosphoprotein, 1,033 amino acids in length, which is larger than any other known phosphoprotein in the subfamily Paramyxoviridae. Given its receptor usage, structural similarities to NiV, and efficient entry in human airway epithelia, Ailong virus is believed to pose a spillover risk.Copyright: © 2026 Dai et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Achieving profound local anaesthesia during mandibular molar root canal treatment can be challenging. This study evaluated procedural pain and supplemental anaesthesia used, considering endodontic diagnosis and buccal bone morphology. Seventy-seven patients undergoing primary root canal treatment completed a post-treatment survey questionnaire asking appointment associated questions relating to pain and fear. Providers used a standardized anaesthetic protocol with supplemental injections as needed. Data were compared with demographic, diagnostic, and radiographic variables. Supplemental anaesthesia was required in 14% of cases. Patients reported no procedural pain in the majority of cases (73%), and felt adequately numb during the procedure in nearly all cases (95%). Sixty-five percent of patients rated the experience better than expected. Buccal bone thickness showed no significant association with pain or need for supplemental anaesthesia. Overall, an inferior alveolar nerve block with lidocaine and supplemental buccal articaine infiltration achieved a high success of profound local anaesthesia.© 2026 The Author(s). Australian Endodontic Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Australian Society of Endodontology Inc.
How fungal pathogens coordinate genotoxic stress responses with membrane homeostasis to sustain cellular signaling remains poorly understood. In this study, we characterize Mrv6, a MARVEL domain-containing membrane protein that is prominently induced by genotoxic stress. Intriguingly, rather than functioning as a canonical DNA repair factor, Mrv6 acts as a critical biophysical adjuster governing membrane lipid homeostasis. Deletion of MRV6 triggers a global transcriptional activation of the ergosterol biosynthetic pathway, resulting in aberrant cellular ergosterol accumulation. We demonstrate that this lipid imbalance fundamentally alters plasma membrane homeostasis, resulting in a less permeable architecture. Paradoxically, while this structural alteration inadvertently shields the fungus from exogenous genotoxins, conferring unexpected resistance to methyl methanesulfonate, it simultaneously hinders the intracellular transduction of environmental morphogenetic signals under hypoxic conditions. Consequently, the major hyphal repressor NRG1 remains aberrantly expressed, leading to an attenuated signaling response that significantly impairs virulence. Crucially, targeted genetic suppression of either the lipid biosynthetic node (ERG1) or the downstream signaling node (NRG1) effectively mitigates this biophysical constraint, rescuing both morphogenetic switching and pathogenicity. Collectively, our findings define a novel biochemical paradigm wherein C. albicans utilizes a stress-responsive membrane protein to fine-tune ergosterol remodeling and membrane permeability, structurally coupling stress adaptation to signal transduction.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
White adipose tissue (WAT) communicates with distal metabolic organs and regulates their functions by secreting adipokines. Subcutaneous WAT (sWAT) is thought to be metabolically protective but prone to dysfunction with aging and obesity. Chronic activation of p53 is commonly observed in dysfunctional WAT at different anatomical locations in metabolic diseases. However, the impact of MDM2 deletion and its associated p53 activation in sWAT on adipokine profile and systemic metabolism is unknown.To investigate the effects of selective MDM2 deletion and associated p53 activation in sWAT, we administered two independent adipotropic adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors expressing Cre recombinase into the sWAT of Mdm2flox/flox mice to locally delete MDM2, a well-established negative regulator that targets p53 for degradation. Deletion of MDM2 resulted in sustained p53 activation, leading to senescence, apoptosis, and fibrosis in sWAT, but not in other fat depots or metabolic organs. sWAT dysfunction resulting from MDM2 deletion and its associated p53 activation had no obvious impact on systemic glucose or lipid metabolism, but progressively triggered hepatic inflammation, damage, and fibrosis. Proteomic analysis revealed that MDM2 deletion shifted the sWAT adipokine profile toward a more pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic state. Among the MDM2 deletion-induced sWAT-derived factors, galectin-3 acted as a major contributor to hepatic stellate cell activation and fibrogenesis via the STAT3 pathway. At the molecular level, p53 bound to the Lgals3 promoter and upregulated its mRNA expression, thereby increasing galectin-3 secretion primarily in mature adipocytes.Our findings reveal that sWAT dysfunction caused by MDM2 deletion and its associated p53 activation is sufficient to promote hepatic damage and fibrosis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Nuclear STAT6 immunohistochemistry is the diagnostic surrogate for the NAB2::STAT6 fusion of solitary fibrous tumour (SFT); its sensitivity is established, but specificity varies for unexamined reasons. This review quantified pooled accuracy and tested whether antibody clone and nuclear threshold govern specificity. PubMed, Scopus and Web of Science were searched to 29 June 2026 for studies reporting nuclear STAT6 immunohistochemistry against a reference standard (NAB2::STAT6 confirmation and/or expert consensus) in SFT and comparators, with extractable two-by-two data. Two reviewers screened, extracted data and applied QUADAS-2. A bivariate generalised linear mixed model gave summary sensitivity and specificity, and exploratory subgroup analysis and meta-regression tested antibody clone, anatomical site and reference-standard type. Twenty-three studies (1216 SFT and 4715 comparators) were included. Summary sensitivity was 98.7% (95% confidence interval 96.7-99.5) and specificity 99.1% (97.8-99.6); the diagnostic odds ratio was approximately 8656. The monoclonal YE361 subgroup (8 studies) reached specificity 99.9% (99.3-100), with one false positive among 861 comparators, versus 98.1% (96.0-99.1) for polyclonal and other antibodies. False positives concentrated in dedifferentiated liposarcoma and prostatic stromal tumours. Estimates were stable after removing studies at higher risk of bias (98.9%/99.1%) and on leave-one-out analysis; the Deeks test was non-significant (p = 0.08). Nuclear STAT6 immunohistochemistry is therefore highly sensitive and specific for SFT, and the residual specificity loss is structured and largely avoidable: the monoclonal YE361 read at a strict nuclear threshold is preferred, with MDM2 and CDK4 applied to exclude dedifferentiated liposarcoma when nuclear STAT6 is unexpectedly positive.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Soft tissue tumors with chondroid matrix represent a heterogeneous group with persistent diagnostic challenges. Advances in molecular diagnostics have identified recurrent gene fusions in several chondroid neoplasms, predominantly involving FN1. Here, we report two cases of chondroid tumors harboring a novel FOS::PABPN1 fusion. The patients were young and presented with small, deep, peri-osseous nodules located in the extremities. Histologically, the tumors were well-circumscribed and lobulated. Both cases presented fibro-cartilaginous and spindle cell areas. No cytonuclear atypia, mitoses, or necrosis were observed. Immunohistochemistry (performed in Case 2) revealed positivity for S100, CD34, and FOS, with negativity for MDM2, HMGA2, PLAG1, and desmin. RNA sequencing identified an identical in-frame FOS::PABPN1 fusion transcript in both tumors. Unsupervised transcriptomic clustering positioned the cases near synovial chondromatoses and other chondroid lesions, despite the absence of FN1 rearrangements. Massive overexpression of the WIF1 (Wnt Inhibitory Factor1) gene was also observed. To our knowledge, this is the first description of FOS rearrangement in mesenchymal tumors exhibiting chondroid differentiation. The FOS::PABPN1 fusion expands the spectrum of FOS-altered neoplasms beyond osteoblastic and vascular lesions and defines a potential new molecular subset of benign chondroid tumors. These findings highlight the utility of RNA sequencing in the diagnosis of chondroid neoplasms in order to identify rearrangement (of FN1, THBS1 or FOS) or IDH1/2. The consistent upregulation of WIF1 may represent a potential diagnostic biomarker.© 2026 The Author(s). Genes, Chromosomes and Cancer published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The p53-MDM2 interaction is a central regulator of p53 protein stability and an important target for restoration of p53 function. Most peptide-based approaches targeting this interaction are derived from the p53 transactivation domain and preserve the canonical F-W-L hydrophobic motif. Here, BRCA1-derived peptide constructs were used to investigate how hydrophobic motif composition and sequence context influence peptide compatibility with the MDM2 binding interface.Short peptide segments derived from BRCA1 phosphorylation regions were engineered to contain hydrophobic anchor residues corresponding to the p53-MDM2 interaction while permitting variation in motif composition, including non-canonical F-W-F configurations. Peptides were evaluated using molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and cellular assays based on EGFP-linker-peptide fusion constructs in HEK293T cells. Several BRCA1-derived peptides were associated with increased p53 protein levels in this system, with pBR3 and pBR4 showing the highest mean levels. Notably, both peptides contained non-canonical F-W-F motifs and showed greater activity than several peptides with comparable docking scores. Molecular dynamics and residue-level contact occupancy analyses were consistent with sustained association of the peptides with the MDM2 binding cleft despite interaction patterns that differed from those of reference p53-derived inhibitors.These findings indicate that modulation of the p53-MDM2 axis is influenced by both hydrophobic motif composition and sequence context. The results further suggest that alternative hydrophobic residue arrangements can support compatibility with the MDM2 binding interface, providing a framework for exploring non-p53-derived peptide architectures targeting the p53-MDM2 interaction.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
In mammals, the postnatal increase in cardiac workload coincides with the loss of cardiomyocyte proliferative capacity, rendering adult cardiomyocytes permanently post-mitotic. Whether reducing load can restore regenerative potential in the adult heart remains unknown. Here we use a heterotopic heart transplantation model, in which the donor heart is vascularized but nonpumping, to show that mechanical unloading induces adult cardiomyocyte proliferation, revealed by Ki67-based and MADM (mosaic analysis with double markers) lineage tracing. Applying heterotopic transplantation to infarcted hearts to achieve mechanical unloading similarly promoted regeneration within peri-infarct regions. Single-nucleus RNA sequencing of unloaded hearts identified enhanced epicardial-cardiomyocyte communication via the NRG1-ERBB4-STAT3 axis. Epicardial Nrg1 deletion blocked STAT3 activation and cardiomyocyte proliferation. CUT&Tag revealed STAT3 directly upregulates H6pd in cardiomyocytes, boosting pentose phosphate pathway activity to supply nucleotides and reducing equivalents for proliferation. These findings delineate a mechanotransductive pathway linking epicardial signals to cardiomyocyte cell-cycle re-entry, providing a framework for leveraging unloading to promote cardiac regeneration.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
The oncoprotein MDM2 is widely recognized as the principal negative regulator of p53, thereby controlling the expression of numerous RNA polymerase II (Pol II)-dependent genes involved in cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Beyond this canonical role, MDM2 also engages in transcriptional regulation independently of p53, for instance through interactions with polycomb repressor complexes. Here, we identify RNA polymerase III (Pol III) as an additional target of MDM2 function. Using two complementary chemical tools-a small-molecule MDM2 antagonist (MI-1061) that releases p53 and augments MDM2 expression, and a PROTAC degrader (MD-224) that simultaneously activates p53 and promotes MDM2 ubiquitination and proteasomal destruction-we dissected the role of MDM2 in cells with amplified MDM2. Elevated MDM2 suppressed the transcription of Pol III-dependent genes encoding tRNA or 5S ribosomal RNA. Mechanistically, we found the aminoterminal domain of MDM2 associated with the catalytic subunit of Pol III, revealing a molecular link between MDM2 and the Pol III machinery. Because Pol III also acts as a cytosolic DNA sensor that converts DNA into double-stranded RNA to trigger RIG-I-TBK1-IRF3-dependent signaling, we asked whether MDM2 modulates this pathway. Indeed, enhanced MDM2 expression markedly attenuated the induction of innate immunity genes such as CXCL10, OAS1, and MX1 following transfection with poly(dA:dT). Similarly, DNA damage induced by a radiomimetic agent activated Pol III-dependent innate signaling, and this was again blunted by high MDM2 levels, resulting in enhanced cell survival. Taken together, our findings establish MDM2 as a previously unrecognized suppressor of Pol III-dependent transcription in response to cytosolic DNA. This expands the repertoire of MDM2 functions beyond repression of p53 and Pol II activity, positioning MDM2 as a broad regulator of transcription and innate immunity.© 2026. The Author(s).
The lack of mutation-contextual therapeutic targets remains a major barrier in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) management. Immunohistochemical analysis of 341 human HCC specimens identified FK506-binding protein 52 (FKBP52) as a tumor grade-associated biomarker. In vitro, FKBP52 overexpression enhanced proliferation in p53-mutant liver cancer cells but suppressed it in p53-wild-type cells. Using two murine models-subcutaneous xenografts and orthotopic liver implants-genetic manipulation confirmed that FKBP52 overexpression in Huh7 accelerated tumor growth, while shRNA-mediated knockdown attenuated growth and decreased AFP/CD133 expression. Differential p53 status underpinned this disparity. In vitro EdU incorporation assays, colony formation assays and TP53-null xenografts (Hep3B cells) demonstrated that p53 knockdown abrogated the phenotype, confirming that FKBP52 promotes mutant p53-driven tumorigenesis while suppressing wild-type p53 tumors. Mechanistically, co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) revealed FKBP52 binds p53 via its FK2 and TPR domains independently of mutation status. This interaction recruited MDM2 into the FKBP52-p53 complex, impairing MDM2-mediated degradation and prolonging stability of both wild-type and mutant p53. Taken together, our findings establish FKBP52 as a novel p53 stabilizer with context-dependent oncogenic effects, critically determined by p53 mutational status. These results highlight the therapeutic potential of targeting the FKBP52-MDM2-p53 axis specifically in TP53-mutant HCC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556566 is a review article
Patients at high bleeding risk (HBR) presenting with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) and treated with percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) have competing hazards of ischemic and bleeding events. In unselected ACS populations, trials of unguided de-escalation of P2Y12 inhibition reduce bleeding without excess ischemia; however, HBR patients were largely underrepresented in these studies. Comparative evidence across multiple de-escalation regimens in this vulnerable cohort is currently lacking.DESC-HBR is a prospective, multicenter, randomized, open-label trial with blinded endpoint adjudication enrolling 200 HBR patients (PRECISE-DAPT ≥25 or ARC-HBR criteria) at 30 ± 7 days after ACS-PCI. Following one month of dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) with prasugrel 10 mg once daily or ticagrelor 90 mg twice daily, on a background of aspirin 100 mg, patients are randomized (1: 1:1:1) to clopidogrel 75 mg once daily, prasugrel 5 mg once daily, ticagrelor 60 mg twice daily, or continuation of full-dose potent therapy. The primary endpoint is the proportion of patients achieving optimal platelet reactivity (VerifyNow PRU 85-208) at 14 ± 2 days post-randomization, 2-h after maintenance dose. Key secondary outcomes include BARC bleeding, net adverse clinical events, quality of life and adherence. Pharmacodynamic profiling incorporates VerifyNow and Total Thrombus Formation Analysis (T-TAS). A total sample of 200 patients allows >80% power to detect superiority of each de-escalation arm versus control (α = 0.017).DESC-HBR is the first randomized trial directly comparing multiple P2Y12 inhibitor de-escalation strategies in HBR patients post-ACS. By integrating pharmacodynamic, clinical, and patient-reported outcomes, it will provide information to guide individualized antiplatelet strategies balancing ischemic protection and bleeding mitigation in HBR patients.NCT05903976, EudraCT 2023-000029-10.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566261 is a review article
The aim of this study was to establish an optimal treatment strategy for functional liver-sparing radiotherapy by incorporating technetium-99 m galactosyl human serum albumin (99mTc-GSA) single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) into radiotherapy planning for recurrent hepatocellular carcinoma (rHCC). Three irradiation techniques-volumetric-modulated arc therapy (VMAT), intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT), and three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy (3D-CRT)-were systematically compared. Six patients with rHCC who underwent stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) were included. Eligible patients had previously received SBRT to a different hepatic segment and had undergone 99mTc-GSA SPECT before the current course of radiotherapy. For treatment planning, planning computed tomography (CT) images were rigidly registered with 99mTc-GSA SPECT images, and functional liver regions were manually contoured by radiation oncologists. Using identical functional liver contours, three treatment plans-VMAT, IMRT, and 3D-CRT-were independently generated by medical physicists. The prescribed dose was 40 Gy, delivered in four fractions. These treatment plans were retrospectively created for research purposes and were separate from actual clinical treatments. Under identical planning target volume dose-coverage conditions, the dose-volume histogram indices (V2-V40) of the functional liver were compared among the three techniques. VMAT consistently demonstrated the best preservation of functional liver regions, particularly in the low-dose range, followed by IMRT and 3D-CRT. These findings demonstrate the feasibility of 99mTc-GSA SPECT-guided function-avoidance radiotherapy planning for the re-irradiation of rHCC and suggest that VMAT provides an optimal balance between target coverage and functional liver preservation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Single crystals of uranium diosmium, UOs2, were obtained during an investigation of the uranium-osmium binary system by an inter-action of uranium metal with osmium metal in an arc furnace and subsequent annealing. The refinement of the crystal structure of UO2 was carried out for the first time using single-crystal X-ray diffraction data. In contrast to previous structure reports based on powder diffraction data, the U and Os atoms were refined with all Uij terms of the displacement parameters considered. UOs2 adopts the MgCu2 structure type.© Ivlev et al. 2026.
China lacks standardized rapid fit-testing protocols for N95 respirators. This exploratory study assessed the feasibility between the OSHA 2.5-min quantitative fit-testing protocol and the 6-min Chinese reference protocol among Chinese healthcare workers, also assessing mask seal degradation during chest compressions.A total of 54 nurses and physicians were recruited for this paired crossover simulation and diagnostic agreement study. Participants underwent quantitative fit testing using two N95 respirator models: D918 (a foldable respirator) and D920 (a cup-type respirator). Fit-test outcomes obtained using the 2.5-min protocol were compared with those obtained using the 6-min reference protocol. Paired pass results were analyzed using McNemar's test, and agreement was assessed using Cohen's kappa with 95% confidence intervals. Diagnostic indices, including sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and likelihood ratios, were calculated from raw 2 × 2 contingency tables. Seal integrity during simulated chest compressions was also evaluated.Using the 6-min protocol as the reference, the D918 respirator showed pass rates of 75.93% [95%CI, 0.63 to 0.85] for the 2.5-min protocol and 81.48% [95%CI, 0.69 to 0.90] for the 6-min protocol. The corresponding sensitivity, specificity, PPV, PLR, and NLR were 97.56% [95%CI, 0.85 to 1.00], 69.23% [95%CI, 0.39 to 0.90], and 90.9% [95%CI, 0.77 to 0.97], 3.17 [95%CI, 1.40 to 7.18] and 0.03 [95%CI, 0.00 to 0.26], respectively. For the D920 respirator, pass rates were 92.59% [95%CI, 0.82 to 0.97] and 94.44% [95%CI, 0.85 to 0.99] for the 2.5-min and 6-min protocols, respectively, with sensitivity, specificity, PPV, PLR and NLR of 100% [95%CI, 0.91 to 1.00], 75% [95%CI, 0.22 to 0.99], 94.4% [95%CI, 0.84 to 0.99], 4.00 [95%CI, 0.73 to 21.84] and 0.02 [95%CI, 0 to not estimable]. During CC, baseline seal integrity was achieved in 98.15% of participants. The D918 showed clinically significant leakage during (44.44%) and post-compression (29.63%), contrasting with D920's maintained performance (p > 0.05). Multivariate analysis identified nasal width (OR 8.71 [95%CI, 2.74 to 31.8]) and auricular arc length (OR 0.78 [95%CI, 0.64 to 0.95]) as independent predictors of fit quality, demonstrating inverse and positive correlations with seal integrity, respectively.In this exploratory paired simulation study, the OSHA 2.5-min protocol showed preliminary agreement with the 6-min Chinese reference protocol for quantitative N95 respirator fit testing among Chinese healthcare workers, particularly for the D920 respirator. However, the study does not establish formal equivalence or non-inferiority. Larger multicenter studies with prespecified non-inferiority margins are needed before the rapid protocol can be recommended as a replacement for the standard 6-min protocol.Copyright © 2026 Han, Li, Fan, Li, Sheng and Zhang.
Remnant cholesterol to lymphocyte ratio (RCLR) integrates atherogenic lipid metabolism and systemic inflammation, potentially reflecting plaque vulnerability in acute coronary syndrome (ACS). However, its association with intracoronary imaging features remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the relationship between RCLR and culprit plaque characteristics using optical coherence tomography (OCT).This retrospective study analyzed 450 ACS inpatients (2021-2024), with 201 included after rigorous selection. The patients were classified into three groups based on the remnant cholesterol to lymphocyte ratio [RCLR; remnant cholesterol (RC = TC-HDL-C-LDL-C) divided by lymphocyte percentage], using tertiles: Group T1 (RCLR ≤ 3.03, n = 66), Group T2 (3.03 < RCLR ≤ 4.66, n = 68), and Group T3 (RCLR > 4.66, n = 67). The characteristics of the culprit lesion plaques were assessed using OCT, and differences among the groups, the correlation between RCLR and plaque characteristics, and multivariable logistic regression were analyzed using SPSS version 27.0 and Python, with two-sided statistical significance set at p < 0.05 (with Bonferroni correction for post-hoc pairwise comparisons).OCT imaging analysis revealed significant differences in qualitative features among various RCLR groups, including plaque rupture, lipid plaque, thin-cap fibroatheroma (TCFA), and superficial calcification (all p values < 0.05). In an exploratory analysis restricted to lesions containing lipid plaque, RCLR showed weak positive correlations with the maximum lipid arc (r = 0.252, 95% CI: 0.026-0.454, p = 0.022) and the lipid index (r = 0.279, 95% CI: 0.062-0.481, p = 0.011). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis further confirmed that RCLR had modest discriminatory value for lipid plaques (AUC = 0.635, 95% CI: 0.559-0.712, p = 0.001), TCFA (AUC = 0.646, 95% CI: 0.559-0.733, p = 0.003), and plaque rupture (AUC = 0.618, 95% CI: 0.540-0.696, p = 0.004). In multivariable analysis, the highest RCLR tertile remained associated with lipid-rich plaque, TCFA, and plaque rupture after adjustment for major clinical risk factors (all P for trend ≤ 0.011).In ACS patients, a higher RCLR was associated with high-risk plaque characteristics detected by OCT, such as lipid-rich plaques, TCFA, and plaque rupture, and the highest RCLR tertile remained associated with these features after multivariable adjustment. RCLR exhibits a certain predictive ability for these vulnerable plaque features. Higher RCLR tertiles were associated with a greater prevalence of vulnerable plaque features, suggesting that RCLR may serve as a composite lipid-inflammatory marker associated with coronary plaque vulnerability, although its signal partly overlaps with systemic inflammatory-cell parameters.© 2026 Liu, Liu, Yan, Sun, Yu, Chen, Dong, Li and Lv.
CD spectroscopy is the essential tool to quickly ascertain in the far UV region the global conformational changes, the secondary structure content and protein folding and in the near UV region the local tertiary structure changes probed by the local environment of the aromatic side chains, prosthetic groups (hemes, flavones, carotenoids), the dihedral angle of disulphide bonds and the ligand chromophore moieties, the latter occurring as a result of protein-ligand binding interaction. Qualitative and quantitative investigations into ligand binding interactions in both the far-UV and near-UV regions using CD spectroscopy provide unique and direct information whether induced conformational changes upon ligand binding occur and of what nature that are unattainable with other techniques such as fluorescence, ITC, SPR, and AUC. This chapter provides an overview of how to perform circular dichroism (CD) experiments, detailing methods, hints, and tips for successful CD measurements. Descriptions of different experimental designs are discussed using CD to investigate ligand-binding interactions. This includes standard qualitative CD measurements conducted in both single-measurement mode and high-throughput 96-well plate mode, CD titrations, and UV protein denaturation assays with and without ligand. The highly collimated microbeam available at B23 beamline for synchrotron radiation circular dichroism (SRCD) at diamond light source (DLS) offers many advantages to benchtop instruments. The synchrotron light source is ten times brighter than a standard xenon arc light source of benchtop instruments. The small diameter of the synchrotron beam can be up to 160 times smaller than that of benchtop light beams has enabled the use of small aperture cuvette cells and flat capillary tubes reducing substantially the amount of volume sample to be investigated. Methods, hints and tips, and golden rules to measure good quality, artifact-free SRCD and CD data will be described in this chapter in particular for the study protein-ligand interactions and protein photostability.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
In the present investigation, an innovative and patented welding process referred to as gas tungsten powder filler metal arc welding (GTPFAW) has been developed, utilizing a micro powder mixture as a filler metal in lieu of conventional welding wires. This approach presents numerous advantages, encompassing a refined welding microstructure, enhanced mechanical properties, adaptability in composition tailored for various welding applications, and the elimination of the necessity for utilizing prefabricated welding wires. Steel grade S275 JR was employed as the foundational metal to be joined with the powder filler metal, which possessed a composition corresponding to that of the standard solid wire ER 70-S3. The evaluation of the weldability of gas tungsten powder filler metal arc welding (GTPFAW) methodology was conducted through a comprehensive analysis of the overall joint integrity and its corresponding mechanical attributes. The findings indicated that GTPFAW exhibited user-friendliness and yielded effective welding outcomes. The joint properties that resulted from the novel approach of GTPFAW were methodically contrasted with the joint properties generated by the traditional gas tungsten arc welding (GTAW) technique in combination with solid wire ER 70-S3, ensuring equivalent joint dimensions and the same steel parent metal classification S275 JR. The microstructural examination disclosed a significant acicular ferrite morphology characterized by its ultra-fine nature, markedly finer than the conventional microstructure produced by the solid filler. Furthermore, the weld metal produced exhibited a consistent hardness range (135-143 HV5) throughout its entire cross-section. This innovative technique possesses the capacity to enable a broad spectrum for the enhancement of filler metal formulations, thus providing substantial opportunities for the union of metals that display or possess particular or distinctive compositions. Moreover, this novel welding approach may be regarded as an environmentally sustainable practice and a proponent of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556473 is a review article
The precision of modern radiotherapy hinges on the dynamic sculpting of dose by multi leaf collimators (MLCs). This study introduces a physics informed, interpretable framework that models MLC related delivery uncertainties and predicts their dosimetric impact, shifting patient-specific quality assurance (PSQA) from passive verification to proactive intervention.&#xD;Approach: We analyzed trajectory log files from 1954 volumetric modulated arc therapy (VMAT) plans deliveries across two widely used MLC designs (Varian Clinac IX and Edge). Control point level MLC and gantry deviations were modeled using motion metrics (leaf speed, speed variation) and a novel temporal latency parameter (ΔtMLC) to capture system inherent uncertainties. These deviations were projected into the patient's 3D anatomy to create an MLC Position Deviation Texture (MPDT) to capture the spatial information of the deviation caused by MLC. MPDT and planning dose served as input to a dual pathway U-Net for predicting deliverable 3D dose distributions. The model was technically trained and tested on 1250 IX/200 Edge plans and clinically tested on an independent cohort of 428 IX/76 Edge cases under uncertainty aware conditions by structural similarity index measure (SSIM), percentage mean absolute error (PMAE) and deviation of gamma passing rate (GPR).&#xD;Main results: MLC deviation patterns were design specific and exhibited consistent linear or quadratic relationships (average R² = 0.989). The MPDT enhanced framework achieved superior dose prediction accuracy (SSIM = 0.996, PMAE = 0.39%) compared to conventional planning dose only models (SSIM = 0.932, PMAE = 2.13%), along with improved GPR consistency (|ΔGPR| = 2.40% vs. 3.92%). In clinical testing, this performance advantage persisted.&#xD;Significance: By integrating interpretable mechanical modeling with deep learning, this work establishes a scalable paradigm for PSQA in the era of precision oncology-one that traces dose deviations to their physical origins, quantifies delivery uncertainty, and enables proactive intervention.Creative Commons Attribution license.
Pentraxin 3 (PTX3) is an inflammatory mediator involved in tumorigenesis; however, its role in tumor immune evasion remains elusive. Herein, we demonstrate that PTX3 promotes immune evasion in breast cancer by upregulating PD-L1.RT-qPCR and Western blot were performed to assess PD-L1 expression in human and murine breast cancer cells. Cell surface PD-L1 was assayed by flow cytometry. Small interfering RNA and CRISPR-Cas9 were used to inhibit PTX3 expression. Co-culture experiments were conducted to evaluate the suppressive effects of tumor cells on CD8 + T cell activation. An immunocompetent BALB/c mouse allograft model was utilized, and tumor-infiltrating CD8 + T cells were analyzed by flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry.PTX3 enhanced PD-L1 protein levels through the inhibition of autophagy. PTX3 increased the expression of the E3 ligase RNF216 and caused Beclin-1 degradation, which suppressed autophagy, thereby preventing autophagy-mediated PD-L1 degradation. Co-culture experiments demonstrate that PTX3-overexpressing breast cancer cells suppressed CD8 + T cell function, as evidenced by reduced production of IFN-γ and Granzyme B, whereas PTX3-depleted cells had the opposite effects. In vivo allograft studies revealed that depletion of PTX3 reduced PD-L1 expression, enhanced CD8 + T cell infiltration, and inhibited tumor growth in immunocompetent mice.PTX3 promotes PD-L1 expression and immune evasion in breast cancer. Therefore, targeting PTX3 may represent a potential therapeutic strategy to counteract this immune escape.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Japanese Breast Cancer Society.
Pre-mRNA splicing is orchestrated by the spliceosome, a dynamic and highly regulated ribonucleoprotein complex composed of five small nuclear ribonucleoproteins (snRNPs). Despite extensive studies, the biogenesis of snRNPs remains incompletely understood. Here, we identify neurochondrin (NCDN) as a critical regulator of U5 snRNP biogenesis. NCDN associates with PRPF8-AAR2-EFTUD2 complex in the cytoplasm and is essential for the proper progression of this assembly intermediate toward mature U5 snRNP formation. Loss of NCDN causes the accumulation of this intermediate, resulting in a decreased level of mature U5 snRNP. Spliceosome dysregulation often leads to alternative splicing abnormalities implicated in cancer. Indeed, NCDN deficiency suppresses tumor cell proliferation and induces apoptosis, while high NCDN expression promotes tumor cell growth and correlates with poor survival in glioblastoma patients. Transcriptome analyses reveal that loss of NCDN causes widespread alternative splicing defects and changes in gene expression. Collectively, these results establish NCDN as an essential factor for U5 snRNP assembly and spliceosome function, and highlight its potential as a therapeutic target in glioma with elevated NCDN expression.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Iodine-125 (125I) seed has effectively treated cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) in previous research. Ferroptosis, a new form of programmed cell death, is linked to cancers including CCA. However, the relationship between 125I seed and ferroptosis in CCA requires further investigation. Five pairs of CCA and adjacent normal tissue were collected, CCA tissues then were subjected to 125I seed brachytherapy. The optimal 125I seed dose for irradiating RBE cells was determined using the CCK-8 assay, and the cells were treated with ferroptosis inhibitors or MG132. RNF216 expression was modulated by short interfering RNA (siRNA) or overexpression plasmid. Cell viability, proliferation, and apoptosis were evaluated by CCK-8, EdU assays, TUNEL staining, and flow cytometric analysis. Intracellular Fe²⁺ levels, Lipid reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the GSH/GSSG ratio were detected by an iron assay kit, C11-BODIPY 581/591 and the EZ-Glutathione Assay Kit, respectively. The expression of RNF216, p53, SLC7A11 and GPX4 were analyzed by RT-qPCR and Western Blot. Ubiquitination of p53 by RNF216 was verified through ubiquitination immunoprecipitation. In CCA cell and tissues, 125I seed induced ferroptosis and reduced RNF216 expression. Additionally, 125I seed inhibited cell viability and proliferation but promoted apoptosis, and these trends were reversed by RNF216 overexpression or ferroptosis inhibitors. RNF216 was a key regulator of 125I seed-induced ferroptosis. Mechanistically, RNF216 promoted p53 degradation through ubiquitination, leading to upregulated SLC7A11 expression and ultimately inhibiting ferroptosis.125I seed inhibited SLC7A11 expression by preventing RNF216-mediated ubiquitination of p53, ultimately inducing ferroptosis in CCA. This provides crucial molecular evidence for the anticancer effects of 125I seed.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Pancreatic cancer is one of the most invasive malignant tumors and remains a leading cause of cancer-related deaths, among which pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) serves as the most common type of pancreatic cancer. Metastasis development is one of the critical reasons for the high mortality in PDAC. Previous studies usually used single or two omics integrated methods to discover biological processes and biomarkers related to the tumorigenesis and prognosis of PDAC. However, the molecular mechanisms of PDAC metastasis remain largely unknown. Therefore, we intended to integrate multi-omics data to explore the metastasis of PDAC. To identify genes or pathways that have potential roles in PDAC metastasis at different levels, we performed whole-exome sequencing (WES), RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) and LC-MS/MS-based proteomics analysis on primary-derived (BxPC-3, MIA PaCa-2) and metastasis-derived (CFPAC-1, HPAF-II, SW1990) PDAC cell lines. Through multi-omics integrative analysis, we found that ATAD1 (ATPase Family AAA Domain Containing 1) knockdown significantly suppressed migration and invasion capacities of PDAC cells. Finally, analysis of the TCGA pancreatic adenocarcinoma (TCGA-PAAD) cohort further revealed that high ATAD1 expression was associated with significantly shorter overall survival (log-rank p = 0.012) and progressively increased from well- to poorly differentiated tumors, implicating ATAD1 as a potential regulator of metastatic propensity and dedifferentiation in pancreatic cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42110226
Skipped: PubMed ID 42080998 is a review article
Neurochondrin (NCDN) has been recently identified as overexpressed in liver metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC) cells compared to poorly metastatic isogenic counterparts. While its cellular function and role in cancer and CRC remain unknown, patient survival data indicate that elevated NCDN levels are associated with poor prognosis. After validating these observations in an independent patient cohort, we sought to investigate the role of NCDN in CRC progression using isogenic CRC cell models comprising poorly metastatic KM12C and liver-metastatic KM12SM cells, and poorly metastatic SW480 and lymph node-metastatic SW620 cells. Stable silencing of NCDN expression in these cell lines resulted in a significant reduction in their tumorigenic and metastatic properties in vitro. Furthermore, in vivo assays using nude mice and the KM12 cell model demonstrated that NCDN is essential for tumor initiation, growth, and liver metastasis of CRC cells. Proteomic profiling of NCDN-silenced cells uncovered a set of dysregulated proteins associated with cell adhesion, invasion, cell death, and differentiation, and mitochondrial dysfunction, emerging NCDN-PODXL-EZR axis as a critical mediator of CRC progression and involved in liver metastasis. Our findings position NCDN and their associated dysregulated proteins as drivers of CRC progression and promising targets for further investigation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Autoimmune cerebellar ataxia (ACA) is a complex neurological disorder characterized by immune-mediated damage to the cerebellum, which gives rise to ataxia symptom. Auto-neuronal antibodies play a crucial role in the diagnosis of ACA. We present a case of an early 70s male whose main presenting symptom was subacute cerebellar ataxia. Enhanced cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) did not detect any significant cerebellar lesions. The serum anti-neurochondroitin (NCDN) antibody IgG titer was 1:320, while the cerebrospinal fluid anti-NCDN antibody IgG titer was 1:1. After the administration of intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) and glucocorticoids, the patient’s symptoms were rapidly relieved. During a six-month follow-up period, the patient’s condition did not recur and it was maintained with low-dose oral glucocorticoids. Threrfore, It is recommended that auto-neurologic antibody testing be included into the routine diagnostic process for patients suspected of having ACA to enable early diagnosis. Early initiation of immunotherapy may significantly improve the prognosis of ACA patients.
The freshwater snail Bellamya purificata is both ecologically and economically significant, exhibiting notable sexual dimorphism in growth and nutritional traits that underscore the importance of breeding of monosex stocks. However, the genetic basis of sex determination remains unclear. Herein, genome-wide association studies (GWASs) combined with transcriptomic analysis were conducted to identify sex-linked markers and candidate genes for this species. GWAS generated 571 significantly sex-associated SNPs and 1853 InDels, corresponding to 44 candidate genes. Multiple significant SNP peaks were detected on chromosomes 1 and 2, with mrc2 and mis18bp1 as key candidate genes. A sex-linked InDel marker located within mis18bp1 can distinguish males and females cost-effectively. Genotype analysis of the sex-associated loci revealed that most females were homozygous while males were heterozygous, suggesting that B. purificata has a primarily XX/XY sex determination system. Comparative gonadal transcriptome analyses identified 2996 female-biased and 4281 male-biased genes. Among them, sry, sox8, dmrt1 and dmrt2 may be critical in male sex differentiation, while β-catenin, foxl2, esr1 and nr5a2 may be important in female sex differentiation. Integration of GWAS and transcriptomic data highlighted four pronounced sex-associated candidate genes, including mis18bp1, rnf216, tbx1 and mrc2. These results provide a valuable foundation for elucidating the genetic mechanisms underlying sex determination and for the development of monosex stocks in B. purificata.
Many proteins containing WW domains interact with proline-rich PPxY motifs, raising questions regarding how they achieve specificity in cellular contexts. Here, we characterize the WW domain-mediated interactions between the MAGI and IQSEC protein families, which play critical roles in neurodevelopment and synaptic signaling. The high-resolution crystal structure of the MAGI3-IQSEC3 complex reveals that an extended sequence C terminus to the canonical PPxY motif in IQSEC3 engages a previously uncharacterized binding site on the WW1 domain of MAGI3. This extension interface enhances binding affinity by dozens-fold, and mutagenesis of key residues within this site abrogates complex formation, demonstrating its functional necessity. This bipartite recognition mode is evolutionarily conserved across MAGI and IQSEC family members. Our work elucidates the structural basis governing MAGI-IQSEC assembly and establishes a generalizable model whereby motif extensions enable high-affinity, specific target selection by WW domains, with broad implications for modular domain-mediated signaling networks.© 2026 Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
The study investigates how sex and age influence treatment response in paediatric, adolescent and young adult (AYA) classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL), integrating clinical data, immune-gene profiling and metabolic imaging from the European Network for Paediatric Hodgkin Lymphoma (EuroNet-PHL-C2 trial). cHL patients treated in Italian Association of Pediatric Hematology & Oncology Research (AIEOP) centres (2018-2020) underwent fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) at baseline, after two chemotherapy cycles early response assessment (ERA) and post-chemotherapy (late response assessment, LRA). Responses were classified as early complete metabolic response (CMR) or as adequate response (AR), inadequate (IR) or progressive disease at LRA. Tumour samples were profiled for 730 immune-related genes, and clinical and quantitative positron emission tomography parameters were integrated to assess sex- and age-related patterns. Sixty-eight cases passed quality control. Early CMR occurred in 51.5% at ERA; 29.4% showed (AR) at LRA. Older age (≥13 years), especially in males, was associated with higher IR risk. runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) expression characterized CMR; a five-gene panel (Bone Marrow Stromal Cell Antigen-1/CD157 [BST1]; C-X-C Motif Chemokine Receptor 6 [CXCR6]; Inducible T-cell Co-stimulator/CD278 [ICOS], Ubiquitin Specific Peptidase 9 Y-Linked [USP9Y], and Single Ig IL-1-Related Receptor/IL-1R8 [SIGIRR]) predicted IR and reflected sex-related immune differences. USP9Y expression correlated with baseline tumour volume (total metabolic tumour volume, TMTV1). Combining TMTV1 with RUNX3 improved CMR discrimination, while TMTV1 with the five-gene panel increased sensitivity but reduced accuracy at LRA. Sex and age influence immune response in AYA cHL. RUNX3 and the five-gene panel show promise as biomarkers of early and late response.© 2026 The Author(s). British Journal of Haematology published by British Society for Haematology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Eosinophilic chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (ECRSwNP) is characterized by type 2 inflammation, prominent eosinophil accumulation, and enhanced epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Although interleukin (IL)-5 plays a central role in eosinophil differentiation and activation, its involvement in driving EMT in human nasal epithelial cells (HNECs) remains unclear. This study investigated IL-5 receptor α (IL-5Rα)-mediated signaling and EMT profiles in ECRSwNP, aiming to determine whether IL-5-activated eosinophil-like cells promote EMT in HNECs.Nasal tissues from healthy controls, non-ECRSwNP patients, and ECRSwNP patients (n=12 per group) were analyzed using hematoxylin and eosin staining, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, immunohistochemistry, and Western blotting. HL-60 promyelocytic leukemia cells were differentiated into eosinophil-like cells and subsequently stimulated with IL-5. HNECs were cocultured with undifferentiated HL-60 cells, differentiated HL-60 cells, or IL-5-stimulated differentiated HL-60 cells using a Transwell system. Expression of EMT-related markers was assessed by Western blotting and immunofluorescence.ECRSwNP tissues demonstrated markedly increased eosinophil infiltration, elevated IL-4 and IL-5 transcript levels, and significantly higher expression of IL-5Rα, phosphorylated Janus kinase 2 (JAK2), and phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (STAT5) compared with controls and non-ECRSwNP tissues. EMT-associated changes, characterized by reduced E-cadherin and increased vimentin expression, were most pronounced in ECRSwNP. In vitro, IL-5 stimulation enhanced IL-5Rα expression, activated JAK2/STAT5 signaling, and increased secretion of eosinophil-associated mediators in differentiated HL-60 cells. Co-culture with IL-5-stimulated eosinophil-like cells induced EMT in HNECs, whereas unstimulated HL-60 cells exerted minimal effects.IL-5Rα-mediated signaling is upregulated in ECRSwNP and may contribute to EMT through eosinophil-dependent mechanisms. IL-5-activated eosinophils promote EMT-related changes in HNECs, providing a mechanistic link between type 2 inflammation and epithelial remodeling. These findings suggest that IL-5Rα signaling may represent a potential therapeutic target for modulating tissue remodeling in ECRSwNP.
Thrombotic events are a major morbidity among Philadelphia chromosome-negative myeloproliferative neoplasm (Ph-MPN) patients. There is a lack of data from Kerala regarding the profile of Ph-MPN and the prevalence of thrombosis among these patients.To study the clinical profile, driver mutations, incidence of thrombotic events among Ph-MPN patients, and the response to hydroxyurea therapy.We reviewed the medical records of 84 Ph-MPN patients who were on follow-up from April 2019 to June 2023 in a tertiary care hospital in Kerala.There were 48 polycythemia vera (PV), 16 essential thrombocythemia (ET), 14 primary myelofibrosis (PMF), and six unclassifiable MPN (MPN-u) patients. The incidence of Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) mutation was 96, 62.5, and 79% among PV, ET, and PMF patients, respectively. The incidence of calreticulin (CALR) mutation was 37.5 and 21% among ET and PMF patients, respectively. The incidence of thrombotic events was 23/48 (48%), 7/16 (43.5%), and 6/14 (42.8%) among PV, ET, and PMF patients, respectively. All ET and PMF patients with thrombotic events were JAK2V617F-mutated. Eighty-seven percent of the evaluable patients on hydroxyurea for PV achieved freedom from therapeutic phlebotomies. ET patients who were on hydroxyurea achieved a median platelet count of 4.3 lakhs/µL (3.16-6.08).There is a higher incidence of thrombosis among Ph-MPN patients from Kerala, which needs to be ascertained in a population-based study. JAK2V617F mutation is the major determinant of thrombotic episodes in ET and PMF. Hydroxyurea is an effective cytoreductive therapy in PV and ET.© Journal of the Association of Physicians of India 2026.
Based on the Janus kinase 2(JAK2)/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3(STAT3) pathway, the inhibitory effect and relevant mechanism of astragaloside-Ⅳ(AS-Ⅳ) on cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury(CIRI) in rats were explored. Sixty rats were randomly divided into six groups: sham operation group, model group, low-dose AS-Ⅳ group(10 mg·kg~(-1)), medium-dose AS-Ⅳ group(20 mg·kg~(-1)), high-dose AS-Ⅳ group(30 mg·kg~(-1)), and edaravone group(3 mg·kg~(-1)), with 10 rats per group. Except for the sham operation group, the middle cerebral artery occlusion/reperfusion(MCAO/R) model was established in all other groups. Rats in the drug-administered groups were intraperitoneally injected with the corresponding drugs from 7 d before surgery to 3 d after reperfusion, while the rats in the sham operation groups were given an equal volume of normal saline. Neurological behavior scores of rats were recorded; cerebral infarct volume was measured by 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride(TTC) staining; enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay(ELISA) was used to detect the contents of interleukin-1β(IL-1β), interleukin-6(IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), superoxide dismutase(SOD), and malondialdehyde(MDA) in serum; hematoxylin-eosin(HE) staining and Nissl staining were performed to observe the pathological changes of cerebral tissue; the ultrastructure of cells was observed by transmission electron microscope; terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling(TUNEL) was used to detect neuronal apoptosis; immunohistochemical staining was applied to determine the protein expressions of apoptotic proteins B-cell lymphoma/leukemia-2(Bcl-2), and Bcl-2 associated X(Bax); immunofluorescence staining was used to detect the protein expressions of phosphorylated(p)-JAK2 and p-STAT3; western blot was employed to detect the protein expressions of cleaved cysteine aspartate specific protease-3(cleaved caspase-3), Bax, Bcl-2, p-JAK2, JAK2, p-STAT3, and STAT3 proteins. Compared with the sham operation group, the model group showed significant increases in neurological behavior scores, cerebral infarct volume, inflammatory factors(IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α), and MDA, a decrease in SOD, upregulated expressions of Bax, cleaved caspase-3, p-JAK2, and p-STAT3, as well as a downregulated expression of Bcl-2. Compared with the model group, groups with each AS-Ⅳ dose can reverse the above indicator changes and promote the nuclear translocation of p-STAT3. In conclusion, AS-Ⅳ can activate the JAK2/STAT3 pathway and inhibit neuronal apoptosis, thereby improving CIRI in rats.
Liver fibrosis is pathologically characterized by excessive extracellular matrix (ECM) deposition induced by diverse etiological factors, which is associated with hepatic stellate cell (HSC) activation and proliferation. B-cell translocation gene 1 (BTG1) contributes to the regulation of cellular proliferation, differentiation, and development. The biological role of BTG1 in HSC activation and liver fibrosis remains incompletely understood.To clarify the regulatory role of BTG1, carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced rat liver fibrosis models and platelet-derived growth factor-BB (PDGF-BB)-activated HSC-T6 cells were used. For in vivo studies, rats were injected with BTG1-overexpressing recombinant adeno-associated virus (AAV). siRNA or overexpression vectors targeting BTG1 were transfected into HSC-T6 cells in vitro, respectively. Rat serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) levels were measured using biochemical assays. Liver histopathological alterations were evaluated by histological staining. 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) assays and flow cytometry were used to assess cell proliferation and apoptosis. Immunohistochemistry, Western blotting, and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) were performed to quantify the levels of α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), collagen I, interleukin-6 (IL-6), and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), as well as proliferation- and apoptosis-related proteins. Furthermore, a specific JAK2 inhibitor was used to further clarify the underlying molecular mechanism.BTG1 was significantly downregulated in CCl4-induced fibrotic liver tissues and activated HSCs. AAV-mediated BTG1 overexpression markedly alleviated liver fibrosis in rats. siRNA-mediated BTG1 knockdown resulted in the significant upregulation of collagen I, α-SMA, IL-6, and TNF-α expression in HSC-T6 cells. BTG1 deficiency enhanced HSC-T6 cell proliferation induced by PDGF-BB as evidenced by increased expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and Ki67, while inhibiting apoptotic death, as evidenced by reduced levels of Bax and cleaved caspase-3, and by enhanced Bcl-2 expression. BTG1 overexpression had the opposite effects. Mechanistically, BTG1 deficiency enhanced JAK2/STAT3 signaling by upregulating the phosphorylation of these signaling intermediaries, whereas BTG1 overexpression inhibited this signaling pathway. Notably, pretreatment with the JAK2 inhibitor ruxolitinib neutralized BTG1 knockdown-induced JAK2/STAT3 hyperactivation.BTG1 suppresses HSC activation by modulating the JAK2/STAT3 signaling axis and retards liver fibrosis progression, suggesting that it may represent a promising therapeutic target for anti-fibrotic intervention.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Gastric gland mucins contain O-glycans carrying terminal α1,4-linked N-acetylglucosamine (αGlcNAc). A previous study demonstrated that A4gnt-deficient mice lack αGlcNAc, spontaneously develop differentiated-type gastric adenocarcinoma, and exhibit significant up-regulation of Il11 transcripts in gastric mucosa. This study assessed mechanisms by which αGlcNAc deficiency induces tumorigenesis, focusing on the IL-11 receptor α (IL-11Rα)-glycoprotein 130 (gp130)-Janus kinase 2 (JAK2)-STAT3 axis. A4gnt-deficient mice exhibited enhanced phosphorylation of JAK2 and STAT3 in pyloric mucosa compared with wild-type mice, with significant increases in JAK2 phosphorylation at 5 weeks and in STAT3 phosphorylation at 5 and 10 weeks. IL-11Rα and gp130 proteins also significantly increased during this period. The thickness of the pyloric gland cell layer was significantly decreased in A4gnt and Il11 doubly deficient (A4gnt-/-;Il11-/-) mice at 10 but not 30 weeks compared with A4gnt-deficient mice, suggesting an IL-11 requirement in the early stage of tumorigenesis. Significant reduction of the proportion of phosphorylated STAT3-positive nuclei in pyloric mucosa of A4gnt-/-;Il11-/- mice at 10 weeks supports the IL-11-mediated phosphorylated STAT3 involvement in this stage. Analysis of gastric cancer AGS-A cells overexpressing αGlcNAc using a Tet-On system revealed significant reduction of IL-11-induced STAT3 phosphorylation compared with αGlcNAc-negative conditions. Moreover, both IL-11Rα and gp130 from wild-type mice and αGlcNAc-expressing AGS-A cells carried αGlcNAc, suggesting that the presence of αGlcNAc on these proteins interferes with receptor-complex formation. Overall, these findings indicate that αGlcNAc protects gastric mucosa from inflammation-induced tumorigenesis by regulating IL-11Rα-gp130-JAK2-STAT3 signaling.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42519674 is a review article
Background and Objectives: Eosinophilic chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (ECRSwNP) is characterized by type 2 inflammation, marked eosinophil infiltration, and enhanced epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Although interleukin-5 (IL-5) is central to eosinophil differentiation and activation, its role in EMT in human nasal epithelial cells (HNECs) remains unclear. This study aimed to elucidate the contribution of IL-5Rα/Janus kinase 2 (JAK2)/signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (STAT5) signaling in eosinophils in EMT in ECRSwNP. Materials and Methods: Nasal mucosal tissues from control and ECRSwNP or non-ECRSwNP group patients (n = 12 each) were analyzed for type 2 cytokine, EMT marker, and IL-5Rα/JAK2/STAT5 axis component levels using Western blotting, immunohistochemistry, and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. HL-60 cells were differentiated into eosinophil-like cells using butyric acid and stimulated with IL-5, and HNECs were co-cultured with undifferentiated, differentiated, or IL-5-activated differentiated HL-60 cells. EMT induction and migration were assessed using immunofluorescence, wound-healing assays, and Western blotting. IL-5RA, JAK2, or STAT5 was silenced using small interfering RNA to determine pathway dependency. Results: ECRSwNP tissues showed elevated type 2 cytokine and EMT marker expression and enhanced IL-5Rα/JAK2/STAT5 pathway activation. Co-culture with IL-5-activated differentiated HL-60 cells induced EMT in HNECs, evidenced by decreased E-cadherin and zonula occludens-1, increased N-cadherin and vimentin levels, and enhanced migration. Moreover, silencing IL-5RA, JAK2, or STAT5 significantly attenuated these effects. Conclusions: IL-5-activated IL-5Rα/JAK2/STAT5 signaling in eosinophils may contribute to EMT in HNECs. Thus, this pathway could be a potential therapeutic target for tissue remodeling and polyp formation in type 2 chronic rhinosinusitis.
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) management has advanced rapidly in recent years, with new therapies supplementing established treatments. The cardiorenal benefits of sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors (SGLT2i), glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RA) and nonsteroidal mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (ns-MRA) in patients with DKD have been proven in several large randomised controlled trials. Recent studies show that combining SGLT2i, ns-MRA and renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) blockade significantly slows DKD progression compared with using single agents. The concurrent use of four agents, including GLP-1RA, SGLT2i, ns-MRA and RAAS blockade, may confer additional benefits, and a four-pillar approach to managing DKD could become standard therapy in the future. Additional investigational agents, including endothelin receptor antagonists, aldosterone synthesis inhibitors, and Janus kinase 1 and Janus kinase 2 inhibitors, have demonstrated encouraging results in Phase 2 trials. These therapies may offer further treatment options for patients who are unable to use other agents.Copyright © 2026 Singapore Medical Journal.
Recurrent spontaneous abortion (RSA) poses a significant challenge to successful early pregnancy, and trophoblast cell ferroptosis is an important pathogenic mechanism of RSA. However, it remains unclear whether decidual macrophages, as key immune regulators at the maternal-fetal interface, participate in the regulation of ferroptosis in trophoblast cells. This study observed significant ferroptosis in the placental trophoblast cells of patients with RSA and aborted mice. Transcriptomic sequencing results revealed that decidual macrophages derived from patients with RSA significantly promoted trophoblast cell ferroptosis while simultaneously impairing trophoblast cell function. Mechanistically, silencing heme oxygenase 1 (HMOX1) in trophoblast cells effectively reversed ferroptosis and restored trophoblast cell function, which was inhibited by decidual macrophages derived from patients with RSA. Notably, decidual macrophages regulate trophoblast ferroptosis and function by secreting C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 2 (CXCL2). Furthermore, the nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) pathway was significantly enriched in trophoblast cells co-cultured with decidual macrophages derived from patients with RSA. Further reversal experiments indicated that the CXCL2/NF-κB/HMOX1 signaling axis may be a crucial mechanism by which decidual macrophages regulate trophoblast cell ferroptosis and function in RSA. Our subsequent findings demonstrated that trophoblast cells co-cultured with RSA-derived decidual macrophages promoted pro-inflammatory polarization in macrophages. This effect was mediated by the interleukin-6 (IL-6) deficiency-inhibited janus kinase 2 (JAK2)/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling axis. Finally, pharmacological analysis revealed Eriodictyol exhibits CXCL2-axis-associated protective effects in RSA. In conclusion, we observed that decidual macrophages in patients with RSA can induce ferroptosis in trophoblast cells, implying that targeting this mechanism may offer novel opportunities for reshaping maternal-fetal tolerance.© 2026 The Author(s). iMeta published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of iMeta Science.
Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor-related protein 6 (LRP6) is crucial for the canonical wingless signaling pathway and the clearance of LDL from the bloodstream. Genetic variants in the LRP6 gene have been conclusively associated with cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) and metabolic syndrome. However, the structural, cellular, and functional implications of these variations have not been fully elucidated. In this study, we examined the subcellular localization, stability, and degradation of 10 LRP6 missense variants (K82N, R360H, Y418H, N433S, R473Q, S488Y, R611C, P1066T, P1206H, and I1264V) previously reported to be associated with various CVD conditions. We assessed the effect of these missense variants on LRP6 subcellular localization by overexpressing them in HeLa and human embryonic kidney (HEK293T) mammalian cell lines. Molecular dynamic (MD) simulation was performed on two variants to evaluate their stability. In addition, the stability of all the variants was evaluated experimentally by measuring their half-lives and comparing them to the wild-type (WT) protein, using cycloheximide chase assays and inhibitor treatments. Our findings suggest that approximately 45% of the wild-type LRP6 protein achieves its mature form within 24-48 h of overexpression, indicating its modest trafficking through the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), maturation, and transport to the plasma membrane. On the other hand, CVD-associated LRP6 variants Y418H, N433S, R473Q, and P1206H exhibited significantly lower maturation levels and, in some cases, were semi-quantitatively present in the immature form, suggesting retention within the ER and failure to pass the highly stringent ER quality control systems. The in silico stability assessment revealed that all 10 LRP6 missense variants are predicted to have a negative impact on protein stability. Interestingly, MD simulation elaborated that one fully ER-retained variant, P1066T, has altered structural interactions of the protein, affecting its folding. ER retention of some CVD-associated LRP6 variants could contribute to diseases via the reduction in LRP6 plasma membrane localization and consequently loss or reduction of LRP6 function, potentially leading to dysregulated signaling efficiency. This study contributes to improving our understanding of the cellular behavior of several LRP6 missense variants causing CVD conditions and has potential applications in diagnosis and the development of new therapies for their associated conditions.Copyright © 2026 Raj, Samha, Badawi, John, Almehrezi, Ghattas and Ali.
Autosomal dominant dyskinesia caused by heterozygous pathogenic variants in the ADCY5 gene, which encodes adenylate cyclase-5, is a rare neurodegenerative disease with a typical early onset and is primarily associated with hyperkinesias, mostly complex ones. Nonfamilial cases caused by de novo gene variants predominate. Caffeine in the form of coffee has become a common treatment. Three cases have been described: a familial case in a 9-year-old boy and a 54-year-old mother; a nonfamilial case in a 4-year-old girl with a frequent ADCY5 variant, p.Arg418Gln; and a nonfamilial case in an 8-year-old boy with a known variant, p.Arg726Trp. In the familial case, the mother's disease was much less severe than that of the son and did not require treatment; coffee was effective in the son.
Focal cortical dysplasia IIb (FCDIIb) and tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) show persistent neuroinflammation that promotes epileptogenesis and epilepsy progression, suggesting that endogenous resolution of inflammation is inadequate to relieve neuronal network hyperexcitability. G-protein-coupled receptor 32 (GPR32) is a key regulator of inflammation resolution and we aimed to explore the roles of GPR32 in cortical lesions of patients with FCDIIb and TSC.We examined the expression and distribution of GPR32 in patients with FCDIIb and TSC and its effects on human microglial cell activation, inflammation and the electrophysiological properties of neurons.GPR32 and Resolvin D1 expression was significantly lower in cortical lesions of patients with FCDIIb and TSC than in controls and were negatively correlated with seizure frequency. GPR32 was widely distributed in neurons and microglia and was nearly absent in astrocytes. Furthermore, the Src homology region 2-containing protein tyrosine phosphatase 2 (SHP2) pathway was downregulated in patients with FCDIIb and TSC. The GPR32/SHP2/nuclear factor-kappa B pathway inhibited the M1 transformation of microglia to produce numerous pro-inflammatory mediators and promoted M2 polarisation. GPR32 also regulated neuronal excitability by reducing the amplitude and frequency of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents.Our results suggest that GPR32 may help control epilepsy in patients with FCDIIb and TSC.© 2026 British Neuropathological Society.
Iroquois Homeobox 3 (IRX3), a highly conserved member of the Iroquois homeobox gene family, has been implicated in obesity through its regulation of fat mass and obesity-associated (FTO) gene. Emerging evidence indicates that IRX3 plays critical roles in the development of some cancers, but the specific functions and molecular mechanisms of IRX3 in glioblastoma (GBM) remain unknown. Here, we demonstrate that IRX3 is highly expressed in GBM and significantly correlated with poor prognosis of patients. IRX3 promotes cell proliferation, colony formation, migration, and invasion in vitro and brain tumor growth in vivo. Mechanistically, IRX3 promotes the transcription of CDK14 (Cyclin Dependent Kinase 14) by binding to its promoter, which in turn stabilizes β-catenin expression through restraining its ubiquitination degradation, thereby activating the canonical Wnt/β-catenin pathway and promoting GBM growth. In addition, we identify LRP6 (LDL receptor-related protein 6) as a crucial regulatory factor in maintaining IRX3-mediated stabilization of β-catenin. Our results demonstrate that IRX3 serves as a promising biomarker for patients with GBM, and targeting the IRX3-CDK14-LRP6 axis may represent a viable treatment approach for GBM.© 2025. The Author(s).
While ATPase Copper Transporting Beta ( ATP7B ), Dystonia-1 ( DYT-1 ), Lysine (K) Methyl transferase 2B ( KMT2B ), and Adenylate Cyclase 5 ( ADCY5 ) gene mutations are well-characterized causes of childhood-onset choreo-dystonic movement disorders, G protein subunit alpha O1 (GNAO1)-related disorders are not commonly suspected. The GNAO1 gene is crucial for neuronal transmission, and its mutation has been linked to neurodevelopmental delay, infantile-onset epilepsy, and movement disorders. To the best of our knowledge, only five Indian cases have been reported to date. We report a 9-year-old girl with predominant choreo-dystonic manifestations along with dyskinetic storm, i.e., episodes of significant worsening in involuntary movements following febrile episodes. Her brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was unremarkable. She presented to us in a dyskinetic crisis, which responded to oral haloperidol. Thus, GNAO1 -related disorder must be suspected in a child with developmental delay, infantile- to childhood-onset seizures with/without movement disorders, along with episodes of dyskinetic crisis related to stress or febrile episodes.Copyright © 2025 Annals of Indian Academy of Neurology.
The relationship between Gestational Diabetes Mellitus (GDM) and Retinopathy of Prematurity (ROP) is not fully understood, but both conditions may share critical molecular biomarkers. This study integrated datasets to identify genes associated with GDM and ROP. Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) was employed to construct networks and identify gene modules related to GDM and ROP. Three machine learning models were utilized to filter for core co-morbid genes. Immune infiltration analysis was performed to investigate the correlations of these genes with immune cells. Finally, a diagnostic nomogram model was constructed based on the expression levels of the three core co-morbid genes, and Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was conducted to assess its diagnostic capabilities. We identified 16 co-morbid genes associated with GDM and ROP. Through machine learning model filtering, chorionic gonadotropin beta subunit 7 (CGB7), MYCN upstream transcript (MYCNUTR), and G protein-coupled receptor 32 (GPR32) were confirmed as core genes. These genes exhibited significantly elevated expression levels in patients with GDM and ROP, positively correlating with activated cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CD8 T) cells and negatively correlating with central memory CD8 T cells. The diagnostic nomogram model achieved an Area Under the Curve (AUC) value of 0.913 in the GDM training set and 0.875 in the ROP training set. This study reveals a potential shared critical role for CGB7, MYCNUT, and GPR32 in the interplay between GDM and ROP. The constructed diagnostic nomogram model shows promising predictive capability.
Cancer is a disease with heterogenous molecular signatures that ought to be unpacked to achieve the overarching aim of precision oncology. A pan-cancer omics approach provides a systems science framework to explore shared and distinct mechanisms across cancers. We report here pan-cancer analyses of gene expression data from 17 cancers, for example, adrenocortical cancer, lung cancer, kidney cancer, and colorectal cancer, and 26 tissue types, using public datasets to construct disease-specific transcriptional networks. Using the hypergeometric test, 1005 microRNAs (miRNAs), 314 transcription factors (TFs), and 332 receptors were identified as regulatory molecules interacting with differentially expressed genes. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway analysis was performed to explore their functional roles. Accordingly, we found miR-124-3p, miR-6799-5p, and miR-7106-5p as common miRNAs; Specificity Protein 1 (SP1), RELA Proto-Oncogene, NF-κB Subunit (RELA), and Nuclear Factor Kappa B Subunit 1 (NFKB1) as shared TFs; Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 2 (CDK2), Histone Deacetylase 1 (HDAC1), and ABL Proto-Oncogene 1, Non-Receptor Tyrosine Kinase (ABL1) as common receptors; and pathways in cancer, PI3K-Akt signaling, and p53 signaling as commonly enriched. Survival analysis in an independent dataset confirmed these findings: SP1 and NFKB1 were significant in 9 cancers, RELA in 6, whereas CDK2, HDAC1, and ABL1 were significant in 11, 10, and 10 cancers, respectively, out of the 17 cancers researched herein. In conclusion, these findings provide system-level insights on tumor heterogeneity and inform future cancer classification, for example, according to shared and distinct molecular signatures and development of therapies that might prove effective across several cancers. We underline that unpacking molecular signatures across multiple cancers also offers new prospects to move beyond the "One Drug, One Disease" paradigm of pharmaceutical innovation.
Parkinson's disease is a highly prevalent neurodegenerative disorder. Hyposecretion of dopamine (DA) is the end result in the pathology of Parkinson's disease. Unfortunately, safe and efficient therapeutic drugs are deficient. Tyrosine hydroxylase is the rate-limiting enzyme for DA synthesis, could hydroxylate tyrosine and generate levodopa with tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) as an indispensable coenzyme. Furthermore, BH4 was confirmed to confer neuroprotection against Parkinson's disease. Thus, regulation of BH4 synthesis was verified to become a promising therapeutic strategy for Parkinson's disease.We demonstrate that artemisinin effectively produced neuroprotection against Parkinson's disease in rats. Integrated analysis of midbrain proteomics and non-targeted metabolomics suggests that artemisinin might target adenylate cyclase 5 (Adcy5) to increase GTP cyclohydrolase 1 (Gch1, BH4 synthetase) expression to further boost BH4 synthesis. To verify this hypothesis, molecular docking experiments demonstrate that ART could directly bind to Adcy5. Artemisinin increases Adcy5 and Gch1 expressions and BH4 production both in vivo and in vitro. Further rescue experiments demonstrate that artemisinin-generated DA neuroprotection and hypersecretion of DA and BH4 disappears after inhibition of Adcy5 or Gch1 in vitro. Additionally, suppression of Adcy5 aggravates Parkinson's disease manifestation, decreases midbrain DA and BH4 production and down-regulated Gch1 expression in vivo.Artemisinin mediates neuroprotection against Parkinson's disease via regulation of Adcy5-Gch1-BH4 axis in rats. These findings present a beneficial potential for future application of artemisinin on Parkinson's disease treatment.© 2025. The Author(s).
Expression levels of ATP‑binding cassette (ABC) transporters are known to be increased in various tumor cells, including in breast cancer, and they are responsible for mediating drug resistance, leading to treatment failure. In the present study, gene expression array analysis revealed that among ABC transporter subtypes, ABC subfamily G member 8 (ABCG8) was one of the most increased in radiotherapy‑resistant triple‑negative breast cancer (RT‑R‑TNBC) cells compared with in TNBC cells. ABCG8 is involved in sterol efflux; however, its role in cancer is not well known. Therefore, the present study investigated the effect of ABCG8 on tumor progression in RT‑R‑TNBC cells. Gene expression profiling was conducted using the QuantiSeq 3' mRNA‑Seq Service, followed by western blotting to confirm protein levels. Loss‑of‑function assays using small interfering RNA (si) transfection were performed to assess the roles of ABCG8 and its regulatory signaling pathways. RT‑R‑MDA‑MB‑231 cells exhibited increased cholesterol levels in both cells and the surrounding media via induction of sterol regulatory element binding protein 1 (mature form) and fatty acid synthase. siABCG8 transfection increased intracellular cholesterol levels but decreased cholesterol levels in the media, indicating an accumulation of cholesterol inside cells. Additionally, RT‑R‑MDA‑MB‑231 cells exhibited increased levels of β‑catenin compared with MDA‑MB‑231 cells, which was significantly reduced by ABCG8 knockdown. Furthermore, ABCG8 knockdown led to cell cycle arrest in the G2/M phase in RT‑R‑MDA‑MB‑231 cells by reducing Polo‑like kinase 1 (PLK1) and Cyclin B1 expression. RT‑R‑MDA‑MB‑231 cells also exhibited increased phosphorylated‑low‑density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor‑related protein 6 (LRP6) levels compared with MDA‑MB‑231 cells, and these were decreased by siABCG8 transfection. LRP6 siRNA transfection decreased β‑catenin, PLK1 and Cyclin B1 expression. In addition, feedback mechanisms such as liver X receptor and inducible degrader of LDL were decreased in RT‑R‑MDA‑MB‑231 cells under normal conditions compared with in MDA‑MB‑231 cells. To the best of our knowledge, the present study was the first to suggest that the cholesterol exported by ABCG8, not inside the cells, may affect cancer progression via the LRP6/Wnt/β‑catenin signaling pathway in RT‑R‑TNBC. The regulation of this pathway may offer a potential therapeutic strategy for the treatment of RT‑R‑TNBC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 39720728 is a review article
This study aimed to determine where along the surgical care pathway race- and ethnicity-associated differences emerge after primary transsphenoidal surgery (TSS) for Cushing's disease (CD).Single-center retrospective cohort of 104 adults undergoing primary TSS for pathologically confirmed CD (2013-2024): 44 White non-Hispanic (WnH), 44 Hispanic, and 16 Black. Preoperative phenotype, perioperative complications, biochemical remission, radiographic persistence, and reintervention were compared across groups using unweighted statistics (Kruskal-Wallis, chi-square or Fisher's exact tests). Sensitivity analysis used inverse probability of treatment weighting (IPTW) with a multinomial propensity model; Black subgroup comparisons were considered exploratory.Hispanic patients lived closer to the center (p = 0.003) and presented with milder disease. Black patients were younger (p = 0.003), with higher BMI (p = 0.033) and near-uniformly solid tumors (94%; p = 0.040). Postoperative arginine vasopressin deficiency was less frequent in Hispanic than WnH patients (25% vs. 55%; p = 0.005). Durable remission rates were comparable (WnH 79%, Hispanic 81%, Black 88%), though Black patients had higher day-1 cortisol and delayed remission on IPTW sensitivity, higher radiographic persistence (38% vs. 21%), and higher crude reintervention (25% vs. 4.5%; p = 0.036). On exploratory IPTW analysis, Hispanic patients also showed shorter reintervention-free survival despite favorable baseline features (IPTW HR 4.20; p = 0.036), a signal not apparent in unadjusted analysis.Race- and ethnicity-associated differences emerged mainly at baseline presentation and in postoperative trajectory, whereas durable biochemical remission converged across groups; Black subgroup analyses were limited by small sample size and residual imbalance after weighting. These hypothesis-generating findings support postoperative surveillance tailored to where differences emerge rather than to ultimate remission and require validation in larger multicenter cohorts.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42554772 is a review article
Desmopressin is first-line therapy for central diabetes insipidus, also known as arginine vasopressin deficiency, but presents dosing challenges due to its narrow therapeutic index. This open-label, randomized, three-way crossover study evaluated the bioequivalence of a new desmopressin acetate oral solution (50 mcg/mL) compared to desmopressin acetate tablets (200 mcg) in 75 healthy adults. In a balanced, three-sequence, three-period design with 14-day washout periods, participants received a single 600-mcg dose of test product and reference product under fasted conditions. Plasma desmopressin concentrations were measured using a validated liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry method, and primary pharmacokinetic parameters (maximum plasma concentration [Cmax], area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time 0 to the last measurable concentration [AUC0-t], AUC from time 0 extrapolated to infinity [AUC0-∞]) were derived from resulting concentration-time profiles. Bioequivalence was assessed using analysis of variance on log-transformed parameters, with 90% confidence intervals (CIs) for geometric mean ratios 80%-125%. Results demonstrated bioequivalence between formulations, with geometric mean ratios of 101.9% (93.9%-110.5%) for Cmax, 103.7% (94.8%-113.5%) for AUC0-t, and 103.7% (94.9%-113.3%) for AUC0-∞. Both formulations exhibited similar pharmacokinetic profiles with 1.0 h median time to maximum concentration, ∼3.6 h mean elimination half-life, and 30%-33% intrasubject variability. Five adverse events were reported by five participants (6.7%), including two cases of hyponatremia (reference group) and one case of vomiting (test group); all were mild to moderate and resolved completely. This study establishes bioequivalence between desmopressin acetate oral solution and tablets, supporting regulatory approval of the oral solution formulation.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Pharmacology in Drug Development published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American College of Clinical Pharmacology.
Hyponatraemia is a common electrolyte disorder often driven by excess arginine vasopressin (AVP). Copeptin is a stable surrogate marker co-secreted with AVP. It is unclear whether treatment of hyponatraemia with tolvaptan, an AVP-V2 receptor antagonist, impacts copeptin. We aimed to assess the effects of tolvaptan on serum copeptin, compared to fluid restriction.Pre-specified secondary analysis of an open-label randomised trial comparing tolvaptan or fluid restriction for 3 days.Hospitalised patients with plasma sodium (pNa) 115-130 mmol/L at a single-centre tertiary hospital in Melbourne, Australia.Copeptin measured at baseline and completion (Day 4, or discharge if sooner).Copeptin results were available in 45/54 participants, randomised to tolvaptan (n = 25) or FR (n = 20). Mean baseline copeptin was 10.4 pmol/L. pNa increased in both groups, significantly more with tolvaptan as previously reported. Copeptin remained stable after FR, but significantly increased after tolvaptan (mean adjusted difference between groups over 3 days 8.4 pmol/L, 95% CI 2.1-14.6, p = 0.01). Baseline copeptin did not predict rapid sodium rise. The rise in copeptin after tolvaptan may represent an exaggerated response to osmolality rise in these patients ('reset osmostat'), or feedback mechanisms from AVP blockade.Tolvaptan increased serum copeptin compared to fluid restriction. Further research is required to determine if there is clinical utility for measuring copeptin in hyponatraemia before it is adopted into practice.ACTRN12619001683123.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Endocrinology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Arginine vasopressin (AVP) is used as an adjunct to catecholamine vasopressors, but its role as a sole agent in high-risk non-cardiac surgery remains poorly defined.To characterize the integrated hemodynamic effects of AVP when used as the primary intraoperative vasopressor.In a propensity-matched physiological analysis, high-risk patients receiving AVP as the sole intraoperative vasopressor were matched to contemporaneous controls managed with catecholamine-based vasopressors. Serial hemodynamic data were analyzed, including arterial pressure, cardiac index, central venous pressure (CVP), venous return determinants, efficiency measures, and intraoperative fluid administration.Fifteen AVP-treated patients were matched to 13 controls, with all covariates balanced (SMDs <0.10). Mean AVP infusion rate was 0.023 (0.005) IU min-1. AVP patients received lower intraoperative fluids (p = 0.03) and had reduced net positive fluid balance (p = 0.02). Mean arterial pressure targets were maintained in both groups (AVP: 72-78 mmHg; controls: 70-76 mmHg). Cardiac index remained preserved with AVP (2.2-2.5 L min-1 m-2), comparable to controls (2.1-2.4 L min-1 m-2), despite lower CVP (AVP: 6-7 mmHg vs. 8-10 mmHg), consistent with effective recruitment of stressed volume and preserved cardiac function. Resistance to venous return remained stable over time, with no between-group differences (p > 0.05). AVP-treated patients demonstrated patterns consistent with improved circulatory efficiency compared with controls.In high-risk non-cardiac surgery, AVP-based hemodynamic management was associated with stable circulatory dynamics, preserved venous return, and reduced fluid exposure. These findings provide a physiological rationale for considering AVP as an alternative hemodynamic strategy in selected surgical patients.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Therapeutic needs to modulate brain circuits highlight graphene-based materials (GBMs) as an emerging tool to engineer specific interventions to treat neuro-diseases. In this context, graphene oxide (GO) nanosheets offer new drug delivery strategies to reach neural cells and signaling networks selectively. To complex and transport neuropeptide Y (NPY), GO was engineered as GO:NPY, and its activity was investigated in regulating excitatory neurotransmission in NPY-positive synaptic pathways, when delivered to the amygdala, a structure mediating fear memory responses. First, it was shown that in vitro GO:NPY specifically and selectively inhibited glutamate release and suppressed synaptic enhancement via NPY receptors. In a rat model of anxiety disorder, when injected into the amygdala, GO:NPY suppressed contextual fear memory responses via activation of NPY receptors in specific synaptic pathways. This easy-to-tune GBM-based nanoplatforms promise advances in co-delivery vectors preserving the synaptic specificity needed for treating specific pathological conditions.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Urination, a vital and conserved process of emptying urine from the urinary bladder in mammals, requires precise coordination between the bladder and external urethral sphincter (EUS) that is tightly controlled by a complex neural network. However, the specific subpopulation of neurons that accounts for such coordination remains unidentified, limiting the development of target-specific therapies for certain urination disorders, for example, detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia. Here, we find that cells expressing estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1+) in the pontine micturition center (PMC) initiate voiding when activated and suspend ongoing voiding when suppressed, each at 100% reliability. Transection of the pelvic nerve does not impair PMCESR1+ neurons' control of the EUS via the pudendal nerve, whereas transection of the pudendal nerve does not impair their control of the bladder via the pelvic nerve. Anatomically, PMCESR1+ neurons consist of three distinct spinal-projection-based subpopulations: one targeting the sacral parasympathetic nucleus, one innervating the dorsal gray commissure, and a third that projects to both regions, thereby enforcing the coordination of bladder contraction and sphincter relaxation in a rigid temporal sequence. Thus, we identify a cell type in the brainstem that controls the bladder-urethra coordination for urination.© 2024, Li et al.
Clazosentan, a selective endothelin-A (ET-A) receptor antagonist, is used to prevent cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Although pulmonary edema and fluid retention are recognized adverse effects, hypoxemia associated with atelectasis has not been described. Endothelin-1 contributes to hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction (HPV), which preserves ventilation-perfusion (V/Q) matching by diverting blood flow from poorly ventilated regions; pharmacologic ET-A blockade may attenuate HPV, increasing intrapulmonary shunt and impairing oxygenation. We report a man in his 60s with aneurysmal SAH (World Federation of Neurosurgical Societies [WFNS] I, Fisher 3) who underwent clipping surgery and postoperative clazosentan infusion (10 mg/h, standard Japanese dosage). On day 7 of infusion, hypoxemia (SpO2 < 90% room air) developed; on day 8, arterial blood gas showed PaO2 62.5 mmHg with a PaO2/FiO2 (P/F) ratio of 109. Chest computed tomography (CT) demonstrated right lower-lobe atelectasis without pulmonary edema or pleural effusion, and echocardiography showed normal cardiac function. Clazosentan was discontinued and corticosteroid therapy initiated, after which oxygenation improved and the atelectasis resolved. The patient was extubated on day 18 and discharged with good neurological recovery. This case illustrates a plausible mechanism whereby ET-A receptor blockade suppresses HPV, exacerbating V/Q mismatch in the presence of segmental atelectasis. Improvement after drug withdrawal supports this association. Clinicians should recognize that hypoxemia during clazosentan therapy may occur independently of fluid overload and warrants early respiratory evaluation.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558375 is a review article
Oxidative stress and neuroinflammation are critical contributors to hypoxic-ischemic brain injury. Microglia, the CNS-resident immune cells, undergo rapid activation in response to hypoxic stress. Endothelin-1 (ET-1), a vasoconstrictor implicated in cerebrovascular pathology, is upregulated by hypoxia; however, its role in microglial activation remains poorly understood. HMC3 human microglial cells were exposed to hypoxia (1% O2) for 4 hours. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) were quantified by flow cytometry. ET-1 and interleukin-6 (IL-6) protein concentrations were measured by ELISA and mRNA levels by qPCR. Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation and ET-1 localization were assessed by flow cytometry and immunofluorescence, respectively. The endothelin B receptor (ETBR) antagonist BQ788 was used to assess ET-1 signaling in hypoxia-induced responses. Hypoxia significantly upregulated ET-1 gene expression (5.0-fold increase, p < 0.001, n = 4) and elevated ET-1 protein production by 1.4-fold (p < 0.01, n = 4). IL-6 expression and secretion increased 1.5-fold under hypoxic conditions (p < 0.01, n = 4), an effect that was attenuated by BQ788 pretreatment. ROS levels increased 1.9-fold in hypoxic HMC3 cells (p < 0.01, n = 4) but were significantly reduced by ETBR inhibition. Additionally, hypoxia elevated the percentage of MAPK-activated cells compared to both normoxic and BQ788-treated groups (p < 0.01). These findings demonstrate that hypoxia induces ET-1 overexpression, ROS generation, MAPK activation, and IL-6 production in microglia, establishing a self-perpetuating cycle of neuroinflammation. ETBR blockade with BQ788 disrupts this cascade, suggesting that ET-1 signaling is a promising therapeutic target to mitigate secondary injury in hypoxic-ischemic brain conditions.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42555010
To compare the effects of High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT) and Moderate Intensity Continuous Training (MICT) on blood pressure homeostasis, cardiovascular structure, and function, and to explore the underlying neuro-humoral regulatory mechanisms in patients with essential hypertension (EH).A total of 56 EH patients were randomly (1:1) assigned to the MICT (35 min) or HIIT (1 × 10 min with 2 min intervals) for 8 weeks, three times per week. The primary outcome was the change in flow-mediated dilation (FMD). Blood pressure, traditional cardiovascular risk factors, cardiovascular structure and function, as well as neural, specific humoral, and nonspecific humoral regulation were assessed.Among 56 patients with EH who were randomized, 54 (96.4%) completed the 8-week evaluation. After an 8-week intervention, the improvement in FMD was significantly greater in the HIIT group compared with the MICT group (mean difference: 0.85% [95% CI, 0.50-1.21]). HIIT showed favored changes in nitric oxide, FMD, and endothelin-1, brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity, peak systolic velocity, corrected QT Interval, Ratio of Early Diastolic Mitral Valve Peak Flow Velocity to Early Diastolic Myocardial Velocity, angiotensin-(1-7), and C-reactive protein in EH patients (all P < 0.05). Both HIIT and MICT significantly improved systolic blood pressure, pulsatility index, resistive index, angiotensin II, and norepinephrine in EH patients (all P < 0.05), with no statistically significant differences between the two groups (all P > 0.05).Both HIIT and MICT yielded comparable effects on lowering systolic blood pressure and regulating neurohumoral factors. FMD was improved to a greater extent with HIIT, which also showed superior efficacy in arterial stiffness, hemodynamics, cardiac diastolic function, and inflammatory biomarkers.https://www.chictr.org.cn, identifier ChiCTR2500097077.© 2026 Yan, Liu, Gao, Guo, Wu, Gong, Gao and Wang.
Women with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) are more likely to develop cardiovascular disease (CVD) within 3 to 10 years following pregnancy. Despite a return to normoglycemia shortly after gestation, GDM mothers still possess an increased risk of future CVD. In this study, we use a novel preclinical hormonal model of GDM to examine the mechanisms underlying future vascular and cardiac dysfunction in mothers with a history of GDM. We treated 16-week-old pregnant C57BL/6J mice with the insulin receptor antagonist (S961; 30nmol/kg, s.c.) from gestational day (GD) 7 (second trimester of pregnancy) until delivery to induce GDM. GDM mice developed systolic and diastolic dysfunction, arterial stiffness, hypertension, increased cardiac mass, and exercise intolerance at 10 weeks postpartum compared with saline-treated pregnant or S961-treated virgin mice. We also observed decreased plasma nitric oxide (NO) and increased endothelin-1 (ET-1) in GDM. The aorta of S961-induced GDM mice had increased pulse wave velocity, impaired vascular relaxation, remodeling, elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and adhesion molecules, increased ET-1 type A receptor expression, and reduced sirtuin-1 (SIRT-1) expression. The left ventricle of S961-induced GDM mice exhibited fibrosis, thickness, and increased ROS production. Additionally, alterations in cardiac kinase activity in the nitric oxide/cyclic guanosine monophosphate/protein kinase G (NO/cGMP/PRKG) and AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) alpha pathways were observed at 10 weeks postpartum using novel Pamgene kinome technology. Thus, endothelin activation, suppressed NO/cGMP/PRKG signaling, impaired AMPK, and altered SIRT1 may be responsible for the development of vascular stiffness and cardiac dysfunction in mothers with a history of GDM.
Coronary microvascular disease (CMVD), particularly ischemia with non-obstructive coronary arteries (INOCA)-related CMVD, is associated with recurrent angina, impaired quality of life, and an increased risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes. Although recognition of this condition is increasing, treatment options remain limited, and many patients continue to have symptoms despite conventional medical therapy. Acupuncture has shown potential as an adjunctive therapy for angina-related symptoms and other cardiovascular conditions. However, high-quality evidence for INOCA-related CMVD remains scarce. This trial aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of acupuncture as an adjunct to conventional medical therapy in patients with INOCA-related CMVD.This prospective, single-center, randomized, sham-controlled, parallel-group pilot trial will recruit 60 participants with INOCA-related CMVD at Guang'anmen Hospital, China Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing, China. Eligible participants will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to an acupuncture group or a sham acupuncture group. Both groups will continue guideline-directed conventional medical therapy. The acupuncture group will receive true acupuncture at Dabao (SP21), Neiguan (PC6), Danzhong (CV17), Xinshu (BL15), and Geshu (BL17), while the sham group will receive non-penetrating sham acupuncture at the same acupoints with the same schedule. Treatment will be given three times weekly for 4 consecutive weeks, followed by a 4-week follow-up. The primary outcome is the response rate at week 4, defined as the proportion of participants with an increase of at least 5 points in the Seattle Angina Questionnaire summary score from baseline. Secondary outcomes include changes in SAQ scores, angina attack frequency, EuroQol 5-Dimension 5-Level questionnaire, traditional Chinese medicine syndrome score, nitric oxide, endothelin-1, and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein. Additional assessments include Clinical Global Impression-Improvement, expectancy and credibility assessments, and blinding assessment. Safety evaluation includes monitoring adverse events and serious adverse events throughout the trial.This pilot trial will provide preliminary evidence on the safety and potential efficacy of acupuncture for INOCA-related CMVD and may help clarify its effects on angina-related health status, quality of life, and selected endothelial and inflammation-related markers. The findings are expected to inform future larger multicenter confirmatory trials.International Traditional Medicine Clinical Trial Registry (http://itmctr.ccebtcm.org.cn/), Identifier ITMCTR2026000515.© 2026 Meng, Ma, Sun, Xia, Zhao, Bai, Zhu, Shi and Zhang.
Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapy has emerged as a pivotal cancer treatment by activating antitumor immunity. However, its clinical efficacy remains limited in many patients, highlighting the need for combination strategies to overcome resistance. Inducing immunogenic cell death (ICD) represents a promising approach to remodel the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment and improve ICB efficacy.A high-throughput screen of a natural compound library identified potent ICD inducers. Polyphyllin II (PPII), a bioactive component from Paris polyphylla, was selected for further investigation. Its effects on ICD markers, tumor growth, and immune activation were evaluated in vitro and in vivo. Limited proteolysis-mass spectrometry was employed to identify the direct target of PPII, followed by mechanistic studies using molecular and immunological assays.PPII was identified as a potent ICD inducer, stimulating the release of high mobility group box 1, ATP, and calreticulin from tumor cells. PPII suppressed tumor growth and enhanced antitumor immunity by promoting dendritic cell maturation and antigen cross-presentation, leading to CD8+ T-cell activation. Mechanistically, PPII directly bound to glucose-regulated protein 75 (GRP75), enhancing endoplasmic reticulum-mitochondrial tethering, provoking endoplasmic reticulum stress and mitochondrial calcium overload, and promoting cytochrome c release and caspase-3 activation. This cascade ultimately triggered gasdermin E (GSDME)-mediated pyroptosis. Furthermore, PPII synergized with anti-programmed cell death protein 1 therapy by reprogramming the tumor immune microenvironment and promoting systemic antitumor immunity.Our findings identify GRP75 as a novel therapeutic target for cancer immunotherapy and highlight PPII-driven immune reprogramming as a translatable strategy to potentiate ICB efficacy through the induction of immunogenic pyroptosis.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Plant nitrogen uptake and utilization are governed by a complex network involving nitrate transporters and signal-responsive genes. Here, we show that the high mobility group box 1 protein OsHMGB1 directly binds to the OsNRT2.2 promoter and functions as a transcriptional repressor, negatively regulating its expression. Knockout of OsHMGB1 upregulates OsNRT2.2 expression, leading to increased nitrate accumulation and enhanced tolerance to low-nitrogen (LN) conditions in rice seedlings. Furthermore, OsHMGB1 expression is significantly reduced in OsCBL1-knockdown (OsCBL1-KD) plants, suggesting its dependence on OsCBL1-mediated signaling. OsHMGB1 acts additively with OsCCA1, a known repressor that binds the OsNRT2.2 promoter, to negatively regulate OsNRT2.2 expression. Notably, sequence variation in the OsHMGB1 promoter between indica and japonica rice varieties correlates with lower expression levels in indica varieties, which are associated with higher nitrogen use efficiency (NUE)-related agronomic traits, specifically, greater grain yield and increased number of effective panicles, in indica varieties compared with japonica. Together, these findings identify OsHMGB1 as a key repressor of OsNRT2.2, associated with OsCBL1-dependent nitrate signaling and act additively with OsCCA1 to enhance LN tolerance, suggesting that OsHMGB1 expression levels correlate with NUE-related traits under LN conditions. This work elucidates a link between calcium signaling and nitrate response in rice.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42548510 is a review article
Dual-target c-Met/VEGFR kinase inhibitors have emerged as promising therapeutic agents for cancer therapy, although their underlying antitumor mechanisms remain poorly defined. In this study, we demonstrate that foretinib, a selective c-Met/VEGFR2 inhibitor, triggers immunogenic cell death (ICD) in colorectal cancer (CRC) cells. This process is characterized by the surface exposure of calreticulin (CRT) and extracellular secretion of ATP and high-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), which subsequently drives the maturation and activation of dendritic cells (DCs). Mechanistically, foretinib activates the p53 signaling pathway, thereby transcriptionally upregulating Death Receptor 5 (DR5), a critical mediator of the extrinsic apoptotic cascade. Furthermore, foretinib remodels the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) by facilitating DCs maturation and potentiating the infiltration and activation of T cells. Moreover, combined treatment with foretinib and anti-CD47 antibody exerts synergistic antitumor effects. Together, these findings uncover a previously unreported immunomodulatory function of c-Met/VEGFR2 inhibition, demonstrating that foretinib elicits potent anti-CRC efficacy via direct cytotoxicity and immunogenic regulation, and highlighting its considerable clinical therapeutic potential.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Prostate cancer (PCa) is a common malignancy in men, and bone metastasis is a leading cause of mortality in advanced-stage PCa. This study aims to identify critical genes involved in PCa bone metastasis, exploring biomarkers for prognosis and precision treatment. Forkhead Box Q1 (FOXQ1) was identified as a potential key gene through screening of public databases, and was found to be markedly upregulated in bone metastatic PCa compared to primary PCa. FOXQ1 promotes PCa cell proliferation and metastasis while inhibiting apoptosis. Additionally, FOXQ1 recruits macrophages, promotes M2 polarization, and enhances osteoclast differentiation in the tumor microenvironment. Mechanistically, FOXQ1 activates the transcription of Glycosyltransferase 8 Domain Containing 2 (GLT8D2) by directly binding to its promoter, and GLT8D2 upregulates the expression of C-C Motif Chemokine Ligand 2 (CCL2) by enhancing its N-glycosylation, thereby promoting PCa bone metastasis. Collectively, these findings establish FOXQ1 as a key regulator of PCa bone metastasis through the GLT8D2/CCL2 axis, and suggest that targeting this pathway may hold therapeutic promise for bone metastatic PCa.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study evaluated the diagnostic value of C-C motif chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2) and C-C chemokine receptor type 2 (CCR2) in pleural effusions for distinguishing histological subtypes of lung cancer (LC).A retrospective cohort study was conducted on 96 cases of squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC), 206 cases of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD), and 53 cases of small cell LC (SCLC). A control group of 102 patients with parapneumonic effusion was selected. CCL2 and CCR2 levels in pleural effusions were measured. Pearson correlation analysis and receiver operating characteristic curve analysis were conducted.Pleural effusion CCL2 and CCR2 levels were higher in advanced LC than in parapneumonic effusion, and the changes in these two levels showed a moderate positive correlation (p < 0.001). CCL2 and CCR2 levels in pleural effusions were elevated in LUAD patients compared to LUSC and SCLC patients (p < 0.01), with SCLC patients having higher levels than LUSC patients (p < 0.01). The AUC for the combined CCL2 and CCR2 panel was higher than that for CCL2, CCR2, carcinoembryonic antigen, and cytokeratin fragment antigen 21-1 tested individually (all p < 0.05).Patients with advanced LC exhibit elevated CCL2 and CCR2 levels in pleural effusions. Combined detection of these two markers has some diagnostic value in distinguishing between LUAD and LUSC, serving as a valuable supplement to histopathological examination; however, clinical application should involve a comprehensive assessment in conjunction with other auxiliary tests. These markers have limited value in distinguishing between SCLC and NSCLC.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an aggressive leukemia with high rates of chemoresistance and relapse. Patients with AML undergoing induction chemotherapy often have delayed erythropoietic recovery and febrile neutropenia. Infection is a leading cause of mortality in this population. There is an unmet need to improve disease-specific outcomes in patients with AML undergoing cytotoxic chemotherapy. AML, at diagnosis, is characterized by increased levels of circulating iron due to erythroid block and cell death, which is further aggravated upon intensive chemotherapy. We hypothesized that iron, particularly toxic non-transferrin-bound iron (NTBI), can be redistributed away from AML cells and bacteria into nonmalignant transferrin receptor (CD71)-expressing cells by administering exogenous iron-free apotransferrin (apoTF). Using mouse models of AML, we show that mice treated with human apoTF had decreased NTBI and increased bone marrow erythropoiesis and B cell responses. ApoTF treatment resulted in normalization of bone marrow blood vessels and reduction of lipid peroxidation in endothelial cells. Crucially, apoTF combined with chemotherapy resulted in a reduction of AML cells and in improved survival, which was dependent on adaptive immunity. We established a murine model of Escherichia coli sepsis in leukemic mice receiving chemotherapy. We show that apoTF administration increased the survival of E. coli-infected mice. Mechanistically, apoTF treatment decreased the levels of circulating C-C motif chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2) and interleukin-6 through reduced expression of CCL2 in lipopolysaccharide-polarized macrophages. Our results demonstrate an overall benefit of iron redistribution induced by transferrin in combination with cytotoxic chemotherapy in AML.
Host defense against invasive bacterial infections of the skin is essential for survival. It involves a complex yet incompletely understood process of microbial recognition followed by innate and adaptive systems for communication between resident and recruited cells to mount an effective defense. Stromal fibroblasts have not been classically considered immunocytes but are gaining recognition for their critical role in inflammation. Here, we identify fibroblast-derived C-C motif chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2) as a key mediator of host defense against invasive Staphylococcus aureus infection. Single-cell RNA sequencing revealed that fibroblasts are a predominant source of CCL2 under steady-state conditions in both human and mouse skin. The use of mice with a conditional deletion of CCL2 in fibroblasts demonstrated that the expression of CCL2 by fibroblasts alters macrophage cytokine production and antigen-presentation-associated responses and is important for monocyte recruitment. Additionally, we revealed a novel role for fibroblast-derived CCL2 in promoting fibroblast-to-adipocyte differentiation via ERK and p38 signaling, leading to reactive adipogenesis and enhanced production of the antimicrobial peptide cathelicidin. In mice with targeted deletion of Ccl2 in fibroblasts, these host immune responses are impaired, and S. aureus infection of the skin is greatly increased. These findings highlight fibroblast-derived CCL2 as a critical regulator of immunity and suggest its broader implications in inflammatory and infectious diseases.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aimed to characterize the temporal dynamics of corneal immune responses and programmed cell death (PCD) following herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) infection, and investigate the role of PANoptosis in shaping the immune responses during herpes simplex keratitis (HSK).A murine HSK model was established through HSV-1 infection, and time-course RNA sequencing was performed on murine corneas at 0, 1, 3, 7, and 14 days post-infection. Phenotypic and mechanistic analyses were conducted using quantitative real-time PCR, western blotting, immunofluorescence staining, flow cytometry, and co-culture experiments. PCD pathways were assessed using antagonists targeting PANoptosis, an integrated form of cell death encompassing key features of apoptosis, pyroptosis, and necroptosis.RNA sequencing revealed sequential immune response phases in the cornea following HSV-1 infection: homeostasis disruption and transcriptional activation (0-3 days), immune amplification (3-7 days), and tissue reorganization (7-14 days). The immune amplification phase was strongly associated with the activation of three distinct PCD pathways: apoptosis, pyroptosis, and necroptosis, culminating in PANoptosis. PANoptosis was confirmed as a central mechanism in HSK pathogenesis, with Z-DNA-binding protein 1 (ZBP1) serving as a key driver of PANoptosome formation. Furthermore, PANoptosis in human corneal epithelial cells (HCECs) was shown to promote the release of C-C motif chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2), enhancing macrophage major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC-II) and interferon β (IFN-β) expression and migration. The PANoptosis-CCL2/C-C motif chemokine receptor 2 (CCR2) axis was significantly upregulated in infected corneas and could be suppressed by a PANoptosis inhibitor or the CCL2 antagonist Bindarit.This study demonstrated the temporal coordination between immune activation and PANoptosis in HSK, highlighting PANoptosis as a crucial mechanism in amplifying antiviral immune responses. The ZBP1-PANoptosome-mediated PANoptosis-CCL2/CCR2 axis represents a potential therapeutic target for modulating the immune responses in HSK.
Low circulating levels of soluble fibroblast activation protein (sFAP) are associated with poor outcomes in patients with ischemic stroke, while its function in the ischemic brain remains unclear. This study investigated the role of FAP in ischemic stroke. BALB/c mice were subjected to transient middle cerebral artery occlusion and treated with recombinant FAP (rFAP) or CPD60, a selective FAP inhibitor. Temporal and spatial patterns of FAP expression in brain were analyzed. sFAP showed a greater decrease in CSF than in serum after ischemic stroke. Astrocytes expressed FAP but did not secrete it. Meningeal fibroblasts constitutively released FAP, and this release decreased after exposure to Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4 ligands. In cultured microglial and macrophages, rFAP suppressed TLR2/4-induced cytokine production. rFAP protected neurons and decreased tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-1β levels in neuron-glia cultures. Systemic or intracerebroventricular administration of rFAP reduced post-ischemic inflammation and infarct volume, whereas CPD60 worsened tissue injury. FAP also inhibited monocyte migration and inflammation induced by C-C motif chemokine ligand 2 and complement C1q tumor necrosis factor-related protein 6, suggesting that these chemokines are potential substrates. Overall, FAP regulates post-ischemic inflammation and protects neurons after ischemic stroke, indicating its therapeutic potential in ischemic stroke.
This study aimed to identify essential genes driving lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) progression by integrating CRISPR-Cas9 dependency data from the Cancer Dependency Map (DepMap) portal with transcriptomic profiles from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases. Through a machine learning-based screening pipeline, we identified GINS complex subunit 1(GINS1) as a pivotal oncogenic driver in LUAD. Multi-omics analysis and in-house clinical validation confirmed that GINS1 is significantly upregulated at both mRNA and protein levels, serving as an independent prognostic marker. Functional assays demonstrated that GINS1 knockdown markedly inhibited LUAD cell proliferation and migration while inducing G1-phase arrest and apoptosis. Notably, GINS1 depletion sensitized tumor cells to ferroptosis, evidenced by increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation and a significant reduction in the Half Maximal Inhibitory Concentration (IC50) of the ferroptosis inducer Imidazole Ketone Erastin (IKE). Mechanistically, GINS1 promotes an immunosuppressive microenvironment by driving M2 macrophage polarization via the C-C Motif Chemokine Ligand 2(CCL2) axis and fostering T-cell exhaustion and immune exclusion. Clinically, high GINS1 expression predicted unfavorable responses to immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapy across multiple independent cohorts. In conclusion, our study identifies GINS1 as a central regulator of tumor cell survival and immune evasion, highlighting its potential as a prognostic biomarker and a promising therapeutic target for precision oncology in LUAD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Intercalated cells (ICs) of the renal collecting duct are traditionally recognized for their role in acid-base homeostasis, but growing evidence suggests they also participate in innate immune defense. Although ICs have been implicated in renal antimicrobial function, their specific role in coordinating immune responses during urinary tract infection (UTI) remains unclear. Using Ae1 R607H knock-in mice, a distal renal tubular acidosis (dRTA) model with A-intercalated cell (A-IC) dysfunction, we examined the renal response to uropathogenic Escherichia coli (UPEC). Mice with A-IC dysfunction exhibited higher bacterial loads 24 h post-infection and increased renal expression of antimicrobial peptides lipocalin-2 (Lcn2), galectin-3 (Lgals3), and cathelicidin-related antimicrobial peptide (Camp). Pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin-6 (IL-6) and interleukin-1β (IL-1β) were elevated at both transcript and protein levels, whereas tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) increased only at the protein level. Interleukin-10 (IL-10) showed a modest rise in mRNA. Chemokines C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 2 (Cxcl2) and C-C motif chemokine ligand 2 (Ccl2) were also upregulated, accompanied by excessive neutrophil infiltration and a marked shift in renal myeloid-cell composition. A-IC dysfunction therefore correlates with higher bacterial load, exaggerated inflammation and impaired immune resolution. These findings identify A-ICs as essential epithelial immunomodulators that integrate antimicrobial defense, cytokine regulation, and immune-cell recruitment during UTI.
Depression is associated with complex hippocampal pathology, including disrupted signaling and neuronal damage. In this study, we developed a novel targeted nanoplatform using nucleic acid aptamer-modified astrocyte-derived extracellular vesicles loaded with geniposide (Apt-EVs@GP) to investigate its therapeutic mechanism, with a focus on the GATA binding protein 1 (GATA1)/adrenergic receptor beta 2 (ADRB2) axis in a chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) mouse model. Apt-EVs@GP exhibited excellent biocompatibility and targeted accumulation in the hippocampus. Apt-EVs@GP treatment significantly ameliorated depression-like behaviors, as evidenced by enhanced locomotor activity and reduced immobility in standard behavioral assays. Transcriptomic analysis combined with molecular validation identified a key regulatory mechanism: Apt-EVs@GP suppressed stress-induced upregulation of GATA1, thereby relieving its transcriptional repression of ADRB2. This regulatory interaction was confirmed by chromatin immunoprecipitation and dual-luciferase reporter assays. Restoration of ADRB2 expression led to robust activation of the downstream cAMP/PKA/CREB signaling pathway. Functionally, reprogramming of the GATA1/ADRB2/cAMP axis conferred comprehensive hippocampal protection, including attenuation of neuroinflammation, suppression of neuronal apoptosis, and restoration of synaptic integrity. Our findings demonstrate that Apt-EVs@GP alleviates depression by targeting a novel GATA1/ADRB2 mechanism, highlighting its potential as a promising therapeutic strategy against depression-related hippocampal pathology.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lupus nephritis (LN) is a common renal complication of systemic lupus erythematosus, and its severity is closely correlated with disease prognosis. Conventional therapy for LN faces challenges including multiple side-effects caused by systemic administration and low drug delivery efficiency due to lack of organ targeting. Herein, we designed a renal-targeted delivery platform based on C-C Motif Chemokine Receptor 2 (CCR2)-C-C Motif Chemokine ligand 2 chemotaxis, constructed by engineering CCR2-overexpressing mesenchymal stromal cell-derived EVs loaded with mycophenolic acid (MPA)-encapsulated MSNs (MPA@CMSNs). In LN models, MPA@CMSNs enabled efficient delivery of MPA into renal region and significantly alleviated kidney inflammation. Mechanistically, MPA@CMSNs effectively inhibited the proliferation and differentiation of proinflammatory immune cells, while concurrently suppressing the Dectin3/NF-κB signaling pathway in macrophages to remodel and optimize the renal immune microenvironment. Collectively, our findings present an efficient renal-targeted strategy with profound therapeutic efficacy against LN, offering a promising approach for targeted disease treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cardiac inflammation contributes to the development and progression of heart failure (HF). Although cytokines are key mediators of cardiac inflammation, lipid-derived metabolites also play essential roles; however, their underlying mechanisms remain largely unexplored. Among these metabolites, 12 S-hydroxy-5Z,8Z,10E, 14Z-eicosatetraenoic acid (12(S)-HETE), an arachidonic acid-derived metabolite produced primarily by 15-lipoxygenase (ALOX15), has not been fully characterized in the heart. In neonatal rat cardiomyocytes, 12(S)-HETE significantly upregulated the expression of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and interleukin-10 (IL-10). The 12(S)-HETE-induced upregulation of IL-6 was suppressed by a thromboxane A2 receptor (TXA2R) antagonist, whereas treatment with a TXA2R agonist alone increased IL-6 expression, suggesting the involvement of TXA2R signaling. Conversely, pharmacological activation of leukotriene B4 receptor 2 (BLT2) attenuated the 12(S)-HETE-induced upregulation of IL-6. Treatment with a BLT2 agonist alone did not affect IL-6 expression but significantly increased IL-10 expression. In addition, both 12(S)-HETE and the BLT2 agonist activated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK); this activation was inhibited by a BLT2 antagonist but not by a TXA2R antagonist. In a mouse model of myocardial infarction (MI), serum levels of 12-HETE (the combined amount of 12(S)-HETE and 12(R)-HETE) and cardiac expression of ALOX15 were increased. Collectively, these findings identify 12(S)-HETE as an inducible lipid mediator following MI that modulates pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokine expression in cardiomyocytes through coordinated activation of TXA2R and BLT2 signaling pathways. Targeting 12(S)-HETE signaling may therefore represent a potential therapeutic strategy for preventing inflammation-associated cardiac remodeling and HF.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The Na+/K+-ATPase α2 isoform regulates vascular tone by modulating Na+/Ca2+ exchange and Src kinase-dependent signaling within membrane microdomains. Inhibition of the Na+/K+-ATPase by cardiotonic steroids promotes vascular contraction through increased intracellular Ca2+ and enhanced Ca2+ sensitization of the contractile apparatus. This effect is counterbalanced by a negative feedback mechanism involving large-conductance Ca2+-activated K+ (BKCa) channels. Given inconsistent reports regarding ouabain-induced potentiation of agonist-evoked vasoconstriction, we hypothesized that the effects of ouabain depend on the agonist (thromboxane A₂ receptor agonist U46619, noradrenaline, and the α1-adrenoceptor agonist methoxamine) used. We specifically assessed changes in intracellular Ca2+, Ca2+ sensitization, and the contribution of BKCa-channel-mediated feedback. Rat mesenteric small arteries were studied using isometric myography. Intracellular Ca2+ was measured with the ratiometric dye FURA-2/AM, and signaling pathways were analyzed by Western blotting. Micromolar ouabain enhanced U46619-induced contraction but had no statistically significant effect on responses to noradrenaline or methoxamine. BKCa channel inhibition with iberiotoxin increased sensitivity to U46619 via elevated intracellular Ca2+. Combined ouabain and iberiotoxin treatment increased basal tone and augmented contractile responses to all agonists tested. Notably, ouabain enhanced Ca2+ sensitization during U46619 stimulation through Src-dependent MYPT1 phosphorylation. Ouabain also increased Src and MYPT1 phosphorylation during both U46619 and methoxamine stimulation. These findings identify the Na+/K+-ATPase as a signaling scaffold that promotes Src-mediated Ca2+ sensitization. This pro-contractile effect requires a sufficient intracellular Ca2+ level, partly regulated by BKCa-channel dependent negative feedback.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Despite effective cholesterol-lowering medications, significant residual cardiovascular risk related to atherosclerosis remains. Here, we explore whether the cytokine-like protein FAM3D contributes to atherosclerosis. Clinical cohort data reveal that elevated circulating FAM3D levels are strongly associated with human atherosclerosis. Both global and intestinal epithelial cell-specific Fam3d deficiencies significantly inhibit intestinal cholesterol and triglyceride absorption and mitigate atherosclerosis in mice. Mechanistically, FAM3D upregulates microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTTP) expression and activity, promoting chylomicron assembly in intestinal epithelial cells. Meanwhile, endothelial FAM3D induces vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) dedifferentiation via a lipid-independent mechanism. Both effects are mediated by the formyl peptide receptor 1 (FPR1)-Gαi/Gαq signaling cascade. Importantly, two monoclonal antibodies targeting FAM3D effectively suppress intestinal MTTP-mediated chylomicron assembly and VSMC dedifferentiation, thereby mitigating atherosclerosis in mice. In conclusion, FAM3D exacerbates atherosclerosis through both lipid-dependent and lipid-independent mechanisms, representing a promising therapeutic target for combating residual cardiovascular risk unresolved by current cholesterol-lowering therapies.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Sepsis is a life-threatening condition driven by dysregulated immune responses to infection, characterized by excessive inflammatory cytokine release that frequently culminates in cytokine storm and multi-organ failure, yet the molecular mechanisms governing cytokine regulation of monocytes in sepsis remain poorly understood. In this study, we retrieved RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) datasets regarding cytokine storm-related diseases from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and performed comparative analysis of gene expression profiles among patients with sepsis, severe COVID-19, macrophage activation syndrome, and healthy controls to identify critical cytokine regulatory genes. We identified 109 shared differentially expressed genes across these cytokine storm-related diseases and pinpointed Formyl peptide receptor 1 (FPR-1) as a key gene significantly upregulated in sepsis monocytes via LPS/TLR4 pathway. Furthermore, we found that FPR-1 activation enhances LPS-induced IL-6 and TNF-α production through AKT and p38-MAPK signaling. Furthermore, FPR-1 modulates mitochondrial ROS levels, thereby amplifying pro-inflammatory cytokine expression in a mitochondrial ROS-dependent manner. These findings demonstrate that FPR-1 is a crucial modulator of monocyte-driven cytokine dysregulation in sepsis via key inflammatory signaling pathways and mtROS homeostasis, providing novel mechanistic insights and potential therapeutic targets for sepsis management.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Pinolenic acid (PA), an 18 : 3 n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acid abundant in pine nut oil, is a structural isomer of γ-linolenic acid (GLA) and α-linolenic acid (ALA). Notably, GLA and ALA have been reported to inhibit prostanoid TP receptor-mediated vascular contraction. Whether PA similarly modulates TP receptor-dependent responses, however, remains unknown. In the present study, we investigated the effects of PA on TP receptor-mediated contraction in porcine coronary arteries (PCAs), TP receptor-evoked intracellular Ca2+ responses in human TP receptor-expressing cells, and its potential binding mode using molecular docking. In endothelium-denuded PCAs, PA (3-30 μM) concentration-dependently inhibited contractions induced by the TP receptor agonist U46619 and prostaglandin F2α (PGF2α), whereas it had little effect on contractions evoked by depolarization (high-KCl) or by other vasoactive agonists. PA caused a parallel rightward shift of the U46619 concentration-response curve, and Schild analysis yielded a slope not significantly different from unity; the corresponding pA2 value was 4.91. In human TP receptor-expressing 293T cells, PA significantly attenuated U46619-induced intracellular Ca2+ elevation, whereas it did not affect PGF2α-induced Ca2+ responses in prostanoid FP receptor-expressing cells. Docking simulations based on the human TP receptor crystal structure (Protein Data Bank ID: 8XJO) suggested that PA may occupy the orthosteric binding pocket, with its carboxylate group positioned near His89. Collectively, these findings suggest that PA inhibits TP receptor-mediated contraction and exhibits pharmacological properties consistent with competitive antagonism, supporting the concept that C18:3 fatty acids may modulate TP receptor signaling.
Mitochondrial damage-associated molecular patterns (mtDAMPs) released after trauma can trigger neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation, potentially worsening tissue injury and increasing susceptibility to secondary infection. However, the mechanisms driving mitochondria-induced NETosis and whether this response can be selectively modulated without impairing antibacterial defense remain unclear.We investigated the mechanisms of mitochondria-induced NET formation using in vitro, in vivo models and ex vivo, using trauma patient plasma. Neutrophils were exposed to intact mitochondria or mitochondrial components, and the roles of Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9), formyl peptide receptor 1 (FPR1), PAD4, NOX2, p38α, and STAT6 were assessed. Effect of the synthetic FPR1 agonist FPRA14 on NET formation and antibacterial neutrophil functions was tested in double hit in vivo model of peritoneal mitochondria injection followed by S. aureus pneumonia.Intact mitochondria induced NET formation through coordinated activation of both TLR9 and FPR1, with dependence on PAD4, NOX2, and p38α signaling. Mitochondrial protein integrity was important for this response, likely by protecting mtDNA from degradation and enabling TLR9 activation. While insufficient to drive NETosis alone, FPR1 activation showed a concentration- and time-dependent modulatory effect: low-level activation promoted NETosis, whereas stronger or pre-exposure-induced signaling suppressed it through receptor desensitization. FPR1 agonist FPRA14 reduced mitochondria-driven NET formation in vitro and in a double hit murine model while preserving neutrophil antibacterial functions, including NET formation, phagocytosis, ROS generation, bacterial killing, and infection control. p38α acted as a positive regulator, whereas STAT6 functioned as a negative regulator of NET formation.These findings identify FPR1 as a key regulator of pathological mitochondria-driven NETosis and suggest that selective FPR1 receptor desensitization may suppress excessive sterile inflammation without compromising host defense. This work extends current understanding of mtDAMP signaling in neutrophils and supports prophylactic FPR1 agonism as a potential strategy for limiting inflammatory tissue damage after trauma or surgery.Mitochondria-induced NETosis depends on TLR9/FPR1 signaling and can be reduced by FPR1 agonism without compromising antibacterial immunity. FPRA14 may represent a strategy to limit harmful sterile inflammation after trauma or surgery.© 2026. The Author(s).
Reactive oxygen species (ROS), produced by NADPH oxidase, promote contraction of the arteries. We hypothesized that (1) procontractile influence of NADPH oxidase derived ROS differs between α1- and thromboxane A2-receptor activation and (2) that such an influence is realized by the activation of different signaling pathways. Mesenteric arteries of rats were studied using wire-myography, Ca2+-fluorimetry and qPCR. Pan-NADPH oxidase inhibitor VAS2870 weakened contractile responses and [Ca2+]i rise to methoxamine (α1-adrenoceptor agonist) and U46619 (thromboxane A2 receptor agonist), this effect was more pronounced when U46619 was used. Suppression of Rho-kinase activity by Y27632 did not eliminate the effect of VAS2870 on both U46619- and methoxamine-induced contraction. The effect of VAS2870 persisted in the presence of LTCC (L-type voltage-gated Ca2+ channels) blocker nimodipine during U46619-induced, but not methoxamine-induced contraction. In contrast, the effect of VAS2870 persisted in the presence of protein kinase C inhibitor GF109203X during methoxamine-induced, but not U46619-induced contraction. Among all NADPH oxidase isoforms mRNAs of Nox2 and Nox4 were the most abundant. NOX2 inhibitor GSK2795039, but not NOX1/4 inhibitor GKT137831, weakened significantly both methoxamine- and U46619-induced contraction. This effect was more pronounced in case of U46619-induced contraction. Thus, procontractile influence of ROS, produced by NADPH oxidase (mainly, by NOX2), is greater during contraction induced by thromboxane A2 than α1-adrenoceptor activation in rat mesenteric arteries. Such influence is realized by activation of LTCC when α1-adrenoceptors are stimulated and by activation of protein kinase C when thromboxane A2 receptors are stimulated.
Alcohol-associated liver disease (ALD) is the leading cause of liver-related mortality worldwide. ALD progresses through chronic, nonresolving inflammation and immune dysfunction, yet the mechanisms driving this dysfunction remain unclear. Here, we characterized the intracellular complement system, the complosome, using explanted liver tissue from patients with ALD, chronic-plus-binge feeding to anaphylatoxin receptor-deficient mice, and in vitro models of macrophage activation. Anaphylatoxin receptor expression was increased in CD68+ macrophages from ALD explants compared with healthy donor liver. In ethanol-fed mice, chronic-plus-binge exposure increased surface expression of complement C3a receptor 1 (C3aR1) and complement C5a receptor 1 (C5aR1), as well as the intracellular C5aR1 pool on CD11bintF4/80hi Kupffer cells. C5aR1-/-, but not C3aR1-/- mice, were protected from binge ethanol-induced liver injury, whereas deficiency of either receptor protected from ethanol-induced expression of proinflammatory cytokines and hepatic immune cell recruitment. In bone marrow-derived macrophages, ethanol and lipopolysaccharide treatment increased expression of intracellular complement components C3, C5, C3aR1, and C5aR1; anaphylatoxin receptors were co-expressed with lysosomal and mitochondrial membrane markers, supporting a functional intracellular signaling compartment. Lipopolysaccharide-induced NOD-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3) expression and IL-1β production were attenuated in C3aR1- and C5aR1-deficient bone marrow-derived macrophages. Notably, C3aR1/C5aR1-/- double-knockout mice were protected from ethanol-induced liver injury and inflammation. In conclusion, ethanol enhances intracellular complosome components in macrophages and anaphylatoxin receptors promote nonresolving inflammation in ALD.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Sepsis-associated acute respiratory distress syndrome (SA-ARDS) is a severe disease with high morbidity and mortality. Emerging evidence indicates that ferroptosis plays a critical role in the development of SA-ARDS. However, the key regulatory targets and underlying molecular mechanisms remain to be further elucidated. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was performed based on the GSE66890 dataset to identify SA-ARDS-related gene modules. Candidate genes were screened by intersecting WGCNA module genes with ARDS-related targets from the GeneCards database and ferroptosis-related genes from FerrDb. An in vitro SA-ARDS model was established in HuLEC-5a cells using lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Cell viability, inflammatory cytokine levels, apoptosis, and ferroptosis-related parameters, including ROS, MDA, 4-HNE, and Fe2+ levels, were evaluated using MTT, ELISA, flow cytometry, and corresponding assay kits. The mRNA and protein expression levels were determined by RT-qPCR and Western blot. The transcriptional regulation of topoisomerase II alpha (TOP2A) by GATA binding protein 2 (GATA2) was verified using JASPAR prediction, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), and dual-luciferase reporter assays. All cellular experiments were performed using three independent biological replicates. WGCNA identified the salmon and cyan modules as significantly associated with SA-ARDS. Intersection analysis identified TOP2A as a key ferroptosis-related gene in SA-ARDS. TOP2A was significantly upregulated in LPS-induced HuLEC-5a cells. Knockdown of TOP2A markedly alleviated LPS-induced cellular injury, as evidenced by enhanced cell viability, reduced levels of inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, IL-8, TNF-α), decreased apoptosis rate, and lowered ROS and Fe2+ accumulation, reduced MDA and 4-HNE levels, restored GPX4 and SLC7A11 expression, and decreased ACSL4 expression, along with increased expression of endothelial barrier-related proteins. GATA2 directly bound to the TOP2A promoter and activated its transcription. TOP2A overexpression reversed the protective effects of GATA2 knockdown in LPS-induced HuLEC-5a cells. GATA2 transcriptionally activated TOP2A expression, which in turn promoted ferroptosis and exacerbated LPS-induced HuLEC-5a cell injury.GATA2 transcriptionally activates TOP2A to induce ferroptosis and exacerbate endothelial injury in SA-ARDS.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s10616-026-01035-2.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Introduction:GATA binding protein 2 (GATA2) deficiency is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by immunodeficiency, progressive cytopenias, and an increased risk of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Novel variants continue to broaden the clinical and genetic spectrum of this condition.Case Presentation:An 11-year-old girl presented with recalcitrant cutaneous warts, recurrent infections, and multilineage cytopenias. Her father had longstanding leukopenia and MDS that progressed to AML. Laboratory evaluation revealed monocytopenia, B- and Natural killer-cell lymphopenia, and dysplastic bone marrow findings. Genetic analysis identified a previously unreported heterozygous splice-site variant in GATA2 (c.1017 + 1 G > A), confirmed in stored DNA from her deceased father. Despite supportive care and allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation from a matched unrelated donor, she developed severe graft-versus-host disease and died from transplant-related complications.Conclusion:This report identifies a previously unreported GATA2 splice-site variant with clinical and familial evidence supporting pathogenicity, contributing to the expanding mutational spectrum and enhancing understanding of genotype-phenotype correlations in GATA2 deficiency.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV)-associated hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) refers to liver cancer caused by chronic HBV infection and is the leading cause of liver cancer globally. Although aurora kinase A (AURKA) has been reported to be highly expressed in HBV-associated HCC, its specific mechanisms of action remain unclear. Through bioinformatics analysis (Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO)) and experimental validation (Western blot), the expression levels of AURKA, hepatitis B virus X protein (HBX), and GATA binding protein 2 (GATA2) were assessed. A HepG2.2.15 cell model was established. Functional assays (colony formation, flow cytometry, mouse xenograft tumor model) and mechanistic studies (dual-luciferase reporter assay, JASPAR database analysis, and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP)) were conducted to investigate the mechanism of AURKA in HBV-associated HCC. Bioinformatics analysis identified AURKA as a core gene in HBV- associated HCC. AURKA was highly expressed in HBV-associated HCC. Knockdown of AURKA inhibited the proliferation of HepG2.2.15 cells, induced apoptosis, and reduced the protein level of the autophagy substrate P62 as well as the ratio of the autophagy marker LC3BII/LC3BI. By forming a complex with GATA2, HBX enhanced the transcriptional activity of the AURKA promoter, thereby promoting the malignant phenotypes of HepG2.2.15 cells. Additionally, in vivo experiments demonstrated that knockdown of GATA2 inhibited tumor growth. In conclusion, GATA2-regulated AURKA promotes the development of HBV-associated HCC, underscoring its potential as a therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is the most common endocrine disorder among women of reproductive age, typically characterized by irregular menstrual cycles. Our study found that postpartum menstrual cycles were largely restored in PCOS patients following assisted reproductive technology (ART) therapy. However, this recovery in menstrual cycles was not -associated with any specific ART procedures. Using a PCOS mouse model, we demonstrated that elevated progesterone levels during pregnancy were responsible for normalizing estrous cyclicity. Elevated levels of progesterone induced granulosa cell apoptosis and depleted large follicles, which potentially contributed to ovarian function suppression during pregnancy. Mechanistic studies indicated that progesterone decreased follicle-stimulating hormone receptor (FSHR) expression in a GATA binding protein 2 (GATA2)-dependent manner. Interestingly, the capacity of granulosa cells to convert androgens to estrogens significantly increased after progesterone withdrawal, as evidenced by elevated expression of cytochrome P450 family 19 subfamily A member 1 (Cyp19a1) in granulosa cells when stimulated with follicle-stimulating hormone. In addition, we found that progesterone administration reduced the thickness of the uterine endometrium in PCOS mice. Our findings suggest that sustained high levels of progesterone during pregnancy can enhance ovarian reproductive endocrine capacity and improve endometrial function, thereby facilitating the recovery of postpartum menstrual cycles.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Higher Education Press.
GATA binding protein 2 (GATA2) plays a crucial role in the differentiation, proliferation, and maintenance of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). GATA2 mutations have been identified in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), but the impact of somatic GATA2 mutations on prognosis remains controversial, especially on patients who undergo allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT).The aim of this retrospective case-control study was to explore the prognostic significance of somatic GATA2 mutations in MDS/AML patients who underwent allo-HSCT.Propensity score matching (PSM) analysis was used to match patients with wild-type GATA2 as the control group (ratio 1:3). A total of 14 patients with somatic GATA2 mutations and 39 patients with wild-type GATA2 were enrolled.The baseline characteristics were comparable between the two groups. However, patients with GATA2 mutations had a higher frequency of WT1 mutations and relapse rate (p = 0.036 and p = 0.008, respectively). Compared to patients with wild-type GATA2, patients with GATA2 mutations had shorter progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS), and post-transplant PFS (p < 0.001, p = 0.030, and p = 0.004, respectively). Subgroup analysis showed that the PFS, OS, post-transplant PFS, and OS of patients with GATA2 non-zinc finger domain 1 (non-ZF1) mutations (p < 0.001, p = 0.004, p < 0.001, and p = 0.049, respectively), but not those of patients with somatic GATA2 ZF1 mutations, were shorter than that of patients with wild-type GATA2. Moreover, somatic GATA2 mutations and WBC count ≥ 20.86 × 109/L were independent adverse prognostic factors for PFS (p = 0.005 and p = 0.020, respectively). Relapse before transplantation was an independent adverse prognostic factor for OS (p = 0.009).Our preliminary study revealed that somatic GATA2 mutations, especially non-ZF1 mutations, may be associated with unfavorable outcomes in patients with MDS/AML, even for patients who underwent allo-HSCT.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
GATA-binding protein 2 (GATA2) is a critical transcription factor that plays an essential role in maintaining the stemness of hematopoietic stem cells. Mutations in GATA2 are recognized as disease-causing mutations for aplastic anemia (AA) and myelodysplastic syndromes; however, the mechanisms linking these mutations to chronic liver injury (CLI) (e.g., cirrhosis) remain elusive.To investigate the molecular mechanisms through which GATA2 deficiency promotes CLI.Whole genome sequencing was performed to identify loss-of-function mutations in GATA2 in a 55-year-old female patient who was suspected of and later diagnosed with AA and developed cirrhosis one year post-diagnosis. After establishing the genetic association between GATA2 mutations and cirrhosis through clinical case analysis, liver injury murine and hepatocyte models were developed to characterize GATA2 expression in response to liver injury. rAAV8-TBG-Gata2-shRNA-mediated liver-specific Gata2 knockdown was employed to elucidate the role of GATA2 in exacerbating liver injury.The patient presented with a three-year medical history of dizziness, fatigue, and thrombocytopenia. Following conventional treatment, she developed severe fatigue, abdominal distension, and jaundice, indicative of liver disease. Multimodal evaluations, including bone marrow biopsy, flow cytometry, liver biopsy, and genetic testing, confirmed GATA2 mutation-associated AA complicated by cirrhosis. Experimental studies in cellular and animal models demonstrated compensatory upregulation of hepatocyte GATA2 in response to endoplasmic reticulum stress and oxidative stress. Mechanistically, liver-specific Gata2 knockdown exacerbated hepatocyte apoptosis, necroptosis, ferroptosis, and impaired regeneration. Furthermore, Gata2 knockdown suppressed the adaptive unfolded protein response, attenuated the antioxidant response, and inhibited fatty acid β-oxidation.GATA2 deficiency drives the CLI by disrupting the hepatocyte death-regeneration balance.©Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. No commercial re-use. See Permissions. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc.
Thoracic aortic aneurysms and dissection are pivotal cardiovascular conditions necessitating accurate diagnostics. DNA methylation, a crucial epigenetic mediator, is implicated in early disease biomarkers. Our analysis of GSE84274 and GSE202047 datasets pinpointed 498 DEGs with promoter DMPs and DMRs. Outliers were detected via DIvisive ANAlysis (DIANA) and Orthogonal Projection to Latent Structures-Discriminant Analysis (OPLS-DA) (P < 0.05). Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses emphasized vascular and TNF signaling. Utilizing the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins (STRING) database, Nuclear Receptor Subfamily 2 Group F Member 2 (NR2F2) and GATA-Binding Protein 2 (GATA2) were identified as core differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Transcriptomic validation confirmed that promoter methylation modulates transcriptional activity (P < 0.05). Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) indicated heightened 5-mC levels in β-aminopropionitrile (BAPN)-challenged mice (P < 0.05), and Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) confirmed the modulation of DNA Methyltransferase 3 Alpha (DNMT3A), DNMT3B, NR2F2, and GATA2. Methylation-Specific PCR (MSP) and Bisulfite Sequencing PCR (BSP) substantiated the hypermethylation of NR2F2 and GATA2 promoters in TAAD (P < 0.05). Our study correlates heightened promoter methylation of NR2F2 and GATA2 with TAAD, proposing them as novel diagnostic biomarkers.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Exposure to environmental pollutants during development has been implicated in causing reproductive dysfunction in adult male mice, yet the specific molecular mechanisms by which certain pollutants induce such damage remain poorly understood. Methyl ester sulfonate (MES), a widely used anionic surfactant marketed as a "green" alternative, lacks a comprehensive assessment of its reproductive toxicity. To address this knowledge gap, we established a mouse model of developmental exposure, administering MES (0.06, 0.6, and 6 mg/L) via drinking water from gestational day (GD) 8.5 to postnatal day (PND) 56. Our results showed that developmental MES exposure induced significant histopathological alterations in adult male testes, including impaired blood-testis barrier (BTB) integrity, disorganized spermatocyte alignment, seminiferous tubule vacuolation, and testicular fibrosis. These structural defects were accompanied by significantly reduced serum testosterone and impaired spermatogenesis. Mechanistically, we combined RNA sequencing, molecular docking, and cell thermal shift assay-Western blotting (CETSA-WB) to uncover a novel pathway in Leydig cells (LCs). We demonstrated that MES directly bound to and stabilized the transcription factor GATA binding protein 2 (GATA2), which in turn activated the transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1)/SMAD signaling pathway. This cascade suppressed luteinizing hormone receptor (LHR) expression, ultimately impairing testosterone synthesis. This study provides the first mechanistic evidence of MES induced reproductive toxicity in mammals, challenging its safety profile and highlighting a novel GATA2/TGF-β1/LHR axis that governs steroidogenesis. Our findings underscore the urgent need for a thorough environmental risk assessment of MES.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Aquaporin-2 (AQP2), the water channel protein exclusively expressed in the kidney collecting duct, plays an essential role in water reabsorption and fluid homeostasis. Dysregulation of Aqp2 transcription and changes in protein abundance lead to water balance disorders such as nephrogenic diabetes insipidus or water overload states. Recent studies have revealed that Aqp2 transcription is highly selective, with only 35 of 3,659 genes exhibiting vasopressin-dependent regulation. Two enhancer elements within a CCCTC-binding factor-insulated topologically associating domain containing the Aqp2 gene control this precise regulation. Contrary to earlier assumptions, ChIP-seq analyses have demonstrated that cyclic adenosine monophosphate-responsive element binding protein (CREB) does not bind within 390 kb of the Aqp2 gene body. Instead, the extended transcription factor candidates, including GATA-binding protein 2 (GATA2), GATA3, and NFATc1, working cooperatively with Yes-associated protein (YAP), have been proposed as one of the key regulators of Aqp2 transcription. This review consolidates the current knowledge of Aqp2 gene regulation, focusing on recent transcriptional studies that have improved the understanding of AQP2 expression patterns. This review discusses the complexity of the Aqp2 gene regulation by integrating information from genome-wide analyses and mechanistic studies. Moreover, the findings provide important insights for translational research and represent significant progress in developing therapeutic strategies for water balance disorders.
Mucosal mast cells (MMCs) are distinguished from connective tissue mast cells (MCs) by the specific cell-surface expression of integrin CD103 (also known as integrin αE/β7; αE is encoded by Itgae) and mast cell protease 1 and 2 (Mcpt1 and Mcpt2, respectively). Although the expression of the Mcpt1 and Mcpt2 genes is cooperatively regulated by the transcription factor GATA-binding protein 2 (GATA2) and transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β) signaling in MMCs, the transcriptional mechanism of the cell-surface expression of CD103 remains unknown. We herein found that surface CD103 and Itgae mRNA levels were significantly increased by the knockdown (KD) of Gata2 in mouse bone marrow-derived MCs (BMMCs), which was accelerated by TGF-β stimulation. Since the mRNA levels of Spi1 (encoding transcription factor PU.1) were increased in Gata2 KD BMMCs, we examined the effects of PU.1 on the cell-surface expression of CD103. As expected, CD103 levels on BMMCs were significantly decreased by Spi1 KD and increased by Spi1 overexpression. Spi1 KD suppressed Itgae expression even in the presence of TGF-β in BMMCs and peritoneal MCs, whereas Gata2 KD amplified the TGF-β-induced increase in Itgae expression. The amount of PU.1 binding to the cis-element in the Itgae gene was significantly and moderately increased by Gata2 KD and TGF-β stimulation, respectively. Since PU.1 is an essential transcription factor for dendritic cells (DCs), we examined the role of PU.1 in CD103 cell-surface expression on DCs. The KD experiment using bone marrow-derived DCs (BMDCs) showed a significant decrease in CD103 levels in Spi1-siRNA-transfected BMDCs. We concluded that PU.1 affected CD103 expression on MMCs and DCs by transactivating the Itgae gene, and also that GATA2, which positively regulated the MMC-specific expression of Mcpt1 and Mcpt2, inhibited the cell-surface expression of CD103 by repressing PU.1.© 2025 The Author(s). The FEBS Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
The ball python, scientifically known as Python regius, is a popular exotic pet due to its beautiful colors and patterns. One of the most famous characteristics of the ball python is the white coloration seen in the blue-eyed leucistic (BEL) variant. This study indicates that the endothelin receptor type B (EDNRB) gene is a candidate gene responsible for the white color and blue eyes characteristic of the BEL. The results from quantitative PCR (qPCR) show an 11.83% difference in the cycle threshold (Ct) values between the wild type and the platinum complex group. This finding suggests that both alleles in the wild type carry normal EDNRB genes, while the platinum complex group shows that one of its alleles possesses a normal EDNRB gene, indicating a heterozygous condition. Notably, there were no qPCR products detected in the BEL, implying that it lacks a normal EDNRB gene. This is the first finding demonstrating that the EDNRB gene is the candidate gene which responsible for the BEL phenotype.
Uveal melanoma (UM), the most prevalent primary intraocular cancer in adults, is defined by salient histopathological diversity. Spindle and epithelioid cells constitute its two dominant pathological lineages, yet the latter foreshadows aggressive behavior and shortened survival. This study aimed to explore the molecular and metabolic underpinnings of UM pathology using regionally resolved proteomics.Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tumors from four patients-two spindle cell and two epithelioid-were histologically stratified via hematoxylin and eosin staining and subsequently interrogated by regionally resolved proteomics across eight precisely mapped regions. Immunofluorescence corroborated the shifts in melanocyte lineage markers. To translate these tissue-level signatures into functional biology, spindle-like 92.1 and epithelioid Mel290 cell lines were subjected to quantitative RT-PCR and Seahorse metabolic profiling, quantifying oxidative-phosphorylation (OXPHOS) gene expression and mitochondrial respiration.Proteomic profiling of microdissected tissue uncovered a selective collapse of the melanocytic differentiation program within epithelioid foci. Endothelin receptor type B, the receptor required for melanocyte stem cell fate, and the lineage-defining calcium-binding protein S100B were both sharply repressed in epithelioid samples, with S100B registering the single largest drop across the entire dataset. Immunofluorescence corroborated this signature, revealing concomitant loss of microphthalmia-associated transcription factor and premelanosome protein, further attesting to the dedifferentiated state of epithelioid cells. Simultaneously, the same regions exhibited a striking surge in OXPHOS machinery. Concordantly, Mel290 epithelioid cells displayed elevated transcription of OXPHOS genes and a markedly higher basal and maximal oxygen consumption rate compared with the spindle-like 92.1 line, aligning tissue-level proteomic shifts with cell-autonomous metabolic rewiring.Our findings reveal a distinct proteomic signature in epithelioid UM characterized by dedifferentiation and enhanced mitochondrial respiration. This study provides the first regionally resolved proteomic landscape of UM pathology and suggests that the epithelioid transformation may reflect a shift toward a dedifferentiated, metabolically active tumor state.
Previous studies have shown that miR-5110 regulates pigmentation by cotargeting melanophilin (MLPH) and WNT family member 1 (WNT1). In order to find the possible molecular mechanism for pigmentation, we examined the mRNA expression profiles in melanocytes of alpaca transfected with miR-5110, inhibitor or negative control (NC) plasmids using high-throughput RNA sequencing. The results showed that a total of 91,976 unigenes were assembled from the reads, among which 13,262 had sequence sizes greater than 2000 nucleotides. According to the KEGG pathway analysis, four pathways related to melanogenesis, the MAPK signaling pathway, Wnt signaling pathway, and cAMP signaling pathway were identified. Compared to the NC, 162 gene were upregulated and 41 genes were downregulated in melanocytes over expressed by miR-5110. The differential expressions of mRNAs Dickkopf 3 (DKK3), premelanosome protein (Pmel), insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R), cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5), endothelin receptor type B (Ednrb), kit ligand (Kitl), Myc, and S100 were verified using qRT-PCR, which agreed with the results of RNA sequencing. We also verified the differential expressions of mRNAs of some genes in the MAPK signaling pathway using qRT-PCR, which agreed with the results of RNA sequencing. Interestingly, several genes were screened as candidates for the melanogenesis regulated by miR-5110, including Kitl and MAPK-activated protein kinase 3 (MAPKAPK3). These findings provide new insights for further molecular studies on the effects of miR-5110 on the melanogenesis and pigmentation.
We conducted a Mendelian randomization study in conjunction with a network pharmacology study to provide an analytical elucidation of the potential causal relationship between blood pressure and antihypertensive drugs and rheumatoid arthritis.First, a Mendelian randomization analysis was performed using large-scale GWAS data to assess the causal associations of systolic/diastolic blood pressure and 12 antihypertensive drug classes with rheumatoid arthritis. The analytical model of inverse variance weighting was primarily utilized. Second, we constructed a "drug-component-target-disease" regulatory network graph and analyzed Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment. Third, we validated some of the mined data through molecular docking technology using BIOVIA Discovery Studio 2019. Finally, animal experiments were performed to verify.The results indicated that elevated diastolic blood pressure was significantly associated with an increased risk of rheumatoid arthritis. Among antihypertensive drugs, adrenergic neuron blockers, central antihypertensives, and potassium-sparing diuretics/aldosterone antagonists reduced the risk of rheumatoid arthritis. Sensitivity analyses demonstrated the absence of pleiotropy or heterogeneity. In addition, after network pharmacology research, the molecular docking of its active ingredients with their targets was carried out, and the link potential was relatively ideal. Construction of a rat model of rheumatoid arthritis, Western blotting assay for Endothelin Receptor Type B (EDNRB), Angiotensin II Receptor Type (AGTR) expression level. Western blot analysis showed elevated EDNRB and AGTR levels in the model group, with spironolactone group significantly reducing these levels, though still higher than methotrexate group.The findings of our study indicate that elevated diastolic blood pressure is associated with an increased risk of rheumatoid arthritis. However, three classes of antihypertensive medications, namely adrenergic neuron blockers, central antihypertensives, and potassium-sparing diuretics and aldosterone antagonists, have been demonstrated to exert beneficial effects on rheumatoid arthritis.© 2026 Yan et al.
Acyclovir (ACR) is a potent anti-viral drug that exhibited pronounced effects on different organs including renal toxicity. Medicarpin (MED) is a novel polyphenolic compound that exhibits strong pharmacological properties. The current research project explored the nephroprotective ability of MED against ACR-induced renal impairments. Thirty-six Sprague Dawley rats were categorized into control, ACR (150 mgkg-1), ACR (150 mgkg-1) + MED (15 mgkg-1), and MED (15 mgkg-1) treated group. We found substantial upregulation in the expressions of P53, endothelin-1 (EDN-1), P21, Endothelin Receptor Type A (EDNRA) while a significant reduction in the expressions of Sirtuin1 (SIRT1), Endothelin Receptor Type B (EDNRB), and Forkhead box protein O3a (FOXO3a) after ACR intoxication. Moreover, ACR administration compromised the redox profile of renal tissues via promoting ROS and MDA while inhibiting the enzymatic activities of HO-1, SOD, GPx, GSR, CAT, GST, and contents of GSH. Besides, a sharp escalation in the concentrations of BUN, NGAL, Urea, KIM-1, creatinine and NAG while a marked decrease in the rate of creatine clearance was observed following the exposure of ACR. Similarly, ACR intoxication increased pro-inflammatory responses as evidence by increased levels of TNF-α, COX-2 NF-κB, IL-1β, and IL-6. Furthermore, ACR exposure escalated the concentrations of Bax, Caspase-9, and Caspase-3 while suppressing the concentrations of Bcl-2. Renal morphology showed severe disruptions after ACR administration. Nevertheless, MED supplementation markedly alleviated aforementioned damages via modulating redox profile, key regulatory signaling pathways, apoptotic and inflammatory responses as well as histological impairments. Our in-silico experimentation proved that MED confers nephroprotection against ACR-induced nephrotoxicity.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The present case report focuses on Waardenburg syndrome (WS), which occurs with a frequency of 1/40,000 and is manifested by neurosensory deafness, pigmentation deficiencies of the skin, hair and iris of the eye, and various tissue defects originating from the neural crest. WS is a genetically heterogeneous disease classified into four clinical and genetic phenotypes. In addition, it is caused by mutations in the following genes: Paired box 3 (PAX3), Endothelin 3, Endothelin Receptor Type B, Melanocyte Inducing Transcription Factor, Snail Family Transcriptional Repressor 2 and SRY-Box Transcription Factor 10. The present study focuses mainly on the structure and function of the pax3 gene and describes the case of a 33-year-old male, in whom a thorough clinical evaluation of physical characteristics and a detailed patient and family history was performed prior to concluding that the patient had WS. To confirm the diagnosis, genetic counseling was recommended and molecular genetic testing using next generation sequencing (NGS) methods was suggested. NGS revealed a novel c.209G>A (p.Cys70Tyr) mutation in the PAX3 gene, suggesting that this method is beneficial for disease screening, genetic diagnosis and counseling. The purpose of the present report is to assess the novel PAX3 gene mutation and its association with WS by analyzing the data from the case and the existing international literature, and by presenting further documented clinical cases. The present study is important due to the discovery of a new mutation, which may contribute to the understanding of the correlation between genotypes and phenotypes, aiding the field of genetic counseling. In addition, the present research study may aid the identification of potential diagnostic and therapeutic approaches for WS.Copyright: © 2025 Zafiri et al.
Cardiotoxicity remains a major clinical challenge associated with various environmental and chemotherapeutic toxicants. Sunitinib (SNB) is a potent targeted cancer drug that is reported to induce severe organ damage including renal failure. Cirsiliol (CSL) is a natural flavone that exhibits marvelous pharmacological properties. In this investigation, we explored the potential cardioprotective nature of CSL to counter SNB induced cardiac impairments. Sprague Dawley rats (n = 36) were categorized into control, SNB (25 mgkg-1), SNB (25 mgkg-1) + CSL (10 mgkg-1), and CSL (10 mgkg-1) alone experimented group. SNB exposure led to a notable reduction in the expression of Endothelin Receptor Type B (EDNRB), Forkhead box O3a (FOXO3a), and sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) while exacerbating the expression of P21, P53, Endothelin-1 (EDN-1), Endothelin Receptor Type A (EDNRA). The levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and malondialdehyde (MDA) were promoted while the enzymatic activities of hemeoxygenase-1 (HO-1), superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione S-transferase (GST), glutathione reductase (GSR), catalase (CAT), and glutathione (GSH) contents were reduced following the SNB exposure. Moreover, SNB intoxication led to a marked elevation in the concentrations of C-reactive protein, creatine kinase-myocardial band (CK-MB), Pro-B-Type natriuretic peptide (ProBNP), troponin-T, Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), Creatine phosphokinase (CPK), troponin-I and Brain natriuretic peptide (BNP). Cardiac tissues showed sever immune-inflammatory responses after SNB intoxication as confirmed by augmented levels and expressions of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and total fraction of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB). Furthermore, the SNB administration upregulated the concentrations of cysteine-aspartic proteases-9 (Caspase-9), cysteine-aspartic proteases-3 (Capase-3), and Bcl-2-associated X protein (Bax) while declining the concentration of B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2). SNB intoxication caused histological disarrays including myofibrillar degeneration, capillary dilation, wavy fibers, necrosis of focal regions, hypertrophy of cardiomyocytes, inflammation and interstitial edema. Nonetheless, CSL therapy notably reversed these pathological changes via upregulating SIRT1/FOXO3a and endothelin pathways while reducing cardiac inflammation, apoptosis and cardiac function markers. Our results are validated through in-silico which showed that CSL showed high binding affinity with key regulatory pathways.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Circadian rhythms are 24-h oscillations in behavioral and biological processes such as blood pressure and sodium excretion. Endothelin B (ETB) receptor has been connected to the molecular clock in peripheral tissues and plays a key role in the regulation of sodium excretion, especially in response to a high-salt diet. However, little is known about the role of ETB in the primary circadian pacemaker in the brain, the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), despite recent reports showing its enrichment in SCN astrocytes. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that high-salt diet (4.0% NaCl) impacts the circadian system via the ETB receptor at the behavioral, molecular, and physiological levels in C57BL/6 mice. Two weeks of high-salt diet feeding changed the organization of nighttime wheel-running activity, as well as increased the SCN expression of ETB mRNA determined by fluorescence in situ hybridization at night. Neuronal excitability determined using loose-patch electrophysiology was also elevated at night. This high-salt diet-induced increase in SCN activity was ameliorated by ex vivo bath application of an ETB antagonist and could be mimicked with acute treatment of endothelin-3. Finally, we found that the excitatory effects of endothelin-3 were blocked with co-application of an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, suggesting that glutamate mediates endothelin-induced neuronal excitability in the SCN. Together, our data demonstrate the presence of functional ETB receptors in SCN astrocytes and point to a novel role for endothelin signaling in mediating neuronal responses to a dietary sodium intake.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Physiological Society.
Endothelin Receptor Type B (EDNRB) is expressed in a variety of cells during embryonic stage, including melanocyte precursors cells. Our previous studies found that 11 bp deletion of EDNRB caused the two-end black (TEB) coat color in Chinese pigs. In this study, we aimed to explore the mutant EDNRB on the formation of TEB coat color in Chinese pigs. We constructed recombinant plasmid for wild and mutant EDNRB and EDN1, respectively, and transfected the recombinant plasmid into mouse B16 melanoma cells in groups. Real-time fluorescent quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) was performed to detect expression of genes that participate in melanin pathway, including PLCγ, Raf, MITF. Comparing to the wild-type EDNRB cells, expression of the three genes in the cell line expressing mutant EDNRB cells was significantly reduced. We measured the melanin content produced by transfected recombinant granulocytes of wild and mutant EDNRB and found that the amount of melanin in mutant EDNRB cells was significantly lower than that of the wild. Wound-healing assay confirmed that the migration and mobility rate of mutant EDNRB cells were significantly lower than the wild. Co-immunoprecipitation further confirmed that mutant EDNRB could not interact with the EDN1 protein. In conclusion, this study revealed that the 11 bp deletion of EDNRB reduced the melanin production, which may be caused by inhibiting the expression of PLCγ, Raf, and MITF. The mutant EDNRB reduced melanocyte migration and could not interact with the EDN1 protein. We explored the effect of mutant EDNRB in Chinese pigs with TEB coat color, and the results provided a reference for exploring molecular mechanism of mutant EDNRB on the formation of TEB coat color pigs.
Based on transcriptomics technology, this study investigated the molecular mechanisms of Xiangsha Liujunzi Decoction in treating chronic atrophic gastritis(CAG), which were confirmed through experimental validation. The CAG rat model was built by the MNNG composite multi-factor method, followed by a 90-day administration of Xiangsha Liujunzi Decoction. The study measured the rat body mass and 3-hour food intake in each group and observed the pathological changes in gastric tissue using HE staining. It used RNA sequencing(RNA-Seq) to determine the gene expression in the gastric tissue of rats in each group and then analyzed differential genes through KEGG enrichment analysis to validate enriched key signaling pathways. The results indicated that the body mass and 3-hour food intake in the model group were significantly lower than those in the blank group, alongside typical signs of gastric tissue atrophy. In contrast, the treatment group exhibited a significant increase in body mass and 3-hour food intake and significant improvements in the damage of gastric tissue pathology. A total of 944 genes associated with the improvement of CAG by Xiangsha Liujunzi Decoction were obtained via RNA-Seq. KEGG enrichment analysis revealed that these genes were mainly enriched in multiple signal transduction pathways involving signaling pathways such as inflammation, proliferation, apoptosis, as well as cyclic adenosine monophosphate(cAMP) and cyclic guanosine monophosphate(cGMP)/protein kinases(PKG) pathways. Compared to the blank group, the RNA-Seq results showed significant increases in adenosine A1 receptor recombina(Adora1) and BK channel subunit beta 3(Kcnmb2) mRNA expression in gastric tissue in the model group, while the expression of endothelin receptor type B gene(Ednrb), recombinant Rho associated coiled coil containing protein kinase 2(Rock2), cGMP-dependent protein kinase 2(Prkg2), and cAMP responsive element binding protein 3 like 3 gene(Creb3l3) mRNA was significantly decreased. Compared to the model group, the expression of Adora1 and Kcnmb2 mRNA in gastric tissue in the treatment group decreased significantly, while the expression of Ednrb, Rock2, Prkg2, and Creb3l3 mRNA increased significantly. Molecular biology experiments revealed significant decreases in cAMP content in gastric tissue and plasma, as well as decreased expression levels of Ras homolog gene family member A(RhoA), ROCK2, phospho-myosin phosphatase target subunit 1(p-MYPT1), and phospho-Myosin light chain(Ser20)(p-MLC20) proteins in gastric tissue in the model group, accompanied by significantly increased cGMP content in gastric tissue and plasma and significantly increased expression of PKG protein in gastric tissue. When the treatment group was compared with the model group, the results showed significant decreases in cGMP content in gastric tissue and plasma and PKG protein expression in gastric tissue, alongside increased expression le-vels of RhoA, ROCK2, p-MYPT1, and p-MLC20 in gastric tissue. At the same time, the results of RT-qPCR confirmed that the expression of key genes in the cGMP/PKG pathway was consistent with the RNA-Seq findings. In summary, Xiangsha Liujunzi Decoction demonstrates significant therapeutic efficacy in CAG rats, and the specific mechanism may be through the abnormal expression of signaling molecules that regulate the cGMP/PKG pathway and downstream processes.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is the most aggressive breast cancer subtype with high metastatic potential and limited treatment options. Natural killer (NK) cells represent a promising immunotherapy strategy due to their innate tumor-killing capacity, but their efficacy against TNBC remains limited. We found that TNBC cells, particularly the mesenchymal-like subtype, exhibited greater resistance to NK cells compared to non-TNBC cells. Mechanistic studies indicate that TNBC cells' survival in response to NK cells occurs in three phases. First, within 1 h of NK cell co-culture, TNBC cells accumulate reactive oxygen species (ROS), which upregulate C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1 (CXCL1) and interleukin 8 (IL8) expression in an NF-κB- and ERK/JNK-AP-1-dependent manner. Second, secreted CXCL1/IL8 binds to C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 1/2 (CXCR1/2), activating the AKT-BCL-2 pathway to enhance cancer cell survival and suppress NK cell function by downregulating NKG2D, TRAIL, and IFN-γ expression. Third, CXCL1/IL8-CXCR1/2 autocrine loop further amplifies their own synthesis and induces programmed cell death 1 ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression via NF-κB and ERK/JNK-AP-1 pathways. High CXCL1/IL8 expression correlates with reduced NK cell infiltration and shorter distant-metastasis-free survival in breast cancer patients. Combinatorial application of CXCR1/2 inhibitor with anti-PD-L1 antibody can overcome NK cell dysfunction and reduce TNBC metastasis.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Airborne microplastics (MPs) are prevalent indoors, and due to their low aerodynamic diameter, they can be inhaled, posing potential health risks. Although the toxic effects of airborne MPs have been explored using in vivo and in vitro models, the interactions between MPs and cellular receptors remain understudied. In this research, dust samples from a confined space within an academic setting were investigated for microplastics (MPs) and their abundance. Further, the most prevalent microplastics were used to study receptor binding and competition interaction studies using the In-Silico method against natural agonists and antagonists of major inflammatory receptors, including the human platelet-activating factor receptor (PAFR), C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 1 (CXCR1), β2-adrenergic receptor (β2-AR), and toll-like receptor 2 (TLR-2). Results revealed that polyester (PE) was the predominant polymer, accounting for 23.96 % of the samples. Analysis indicated that a monomer of PET, Ethylene Terephthalate (ET), exhibited a high binding affinity of -6.5 kcal/mol with the PAFR receptor. Additionally, the molecular dynamics and protein-ligand interaction study, which involves hydrogen bonding, explains the differential binding effect of ET and the control compound with the targeted receptor. The complex was formed between the ET and the receptors of β2-AR, CXCR1, and TLR-2, with a maximum of seven and a minimum of one hydrogen bond throughout the simulation. This research lays a foundation for understanding the potential health implications of MPs in confined office spaces, underscoring the need for further in vivo and in vitro examinations.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is associated with variable clinical outcomes, even among tumours with similar characteristics, complicating treatment. Here, we identify acetyl-CoA carboxylase 1 (ACC1), a key lipogenic enzyme, as a factor influencing this variability. Specifically, ACC1 knockdown in ESCC cells induces histone acetylation, activating c-Fos and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 8 (CXCL8) transcription, which in turn promotes epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and enhances migration and invasion via CXCL8-C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 1/2 (CXCR1/2)-mediated PI3K/AKT and MEK/ERK signalling. Additionally, ACC1 knockdown stimulates neutrophil recruitment and neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation through CXCL8-dependent paracrine signalling, further enhancing tumour cell migration and invasion. In ESCC xenografts, ACC1 knockdown increases neutrophil infiltration and NET formation, accelerating metastasis. Clinically, low ACC1 expression and high CXCL8 levels are linked to poor prognosis in patients with ESCC, while NET formation further correlates with reduced survival. These findings highlight the ACC1-CXCL8-NET axis as a potential therapeutic target and prognostic marker in ESCC.© 2025. The Author(s).
PCOS is a common endocrine disorder in women of reproductive age, with granulosa cells playing a key role in its development. This study aims to identify shared differentially expressed genes (DEG) in granulosa cells and blood from PCOS patients, offering potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets.Transcriptomic data were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database: GSE95728 (granulosa cells; 7 PCOS, 7 controls) and two blood-based datasets, GSE85932 and GSE54248 (12 PCOS, 12 controls). In silico tools were employed to identify DEG, hub genes, and protein-protein interactions and to explore predicted drug targets.DEG analysis revealed that Vanin-2 (VNN2) and Interleukin-1 receptor type 2 (IL1R2) were consistently dysregulated in PCOS patients. Dysferlin (DYSF), Carbonic Anhydrase 4 (CA4), and Solute Carrier Family 2 Member 14 (SLC2A14) were differentially expressed between the blood datasets, while Aquaporin 9 (AQP9), C-X-C Motif Chemokine Receptor 1 (CXCR1), and Annexin A3 (ANXA3) were dysregulated in GSE95728 (granulosa cells) and GSE54248 (blood). Functional enrichment highlighted immune and metabolic pathways. Protein-protein interaction analysis identified AQP9 as a hub gene. Drug prediction analysis suggested that IL1R2 could be targeted by anakinra, while VNN2 was predicted to interact with pantothenic acid.The dysregulation of VNN2 and IL1R2 across tissue types suggests their involvement in immune-inflammatory processes in PCOS. The expression of AQP9 and other metabolism-related genes indicates possible immune-metabolic crosstalk, aligning with known PCOS pathophysiology.VNN2 and IL1R2 show potential as biomarkers or therapeutic targets in PCOS. Further validation is needed to confirm their clinical significance and roles.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Dendritic cells (DCs) play a critical role in the development of acute lung injury (ALI) / acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), but the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood, due to their heterogeneous phenotype and function. In this study, a novel DC subset is defined in mice, Ly6C⁺ cDC2, which corresponds to CD14⁺ cDC2 in humans. These subsets highly express C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 1 (Cxcr1) and exhibit pro-inflammatory effects during ALI. Ex vivo, Ly6C⁺ cDC2s release higher levels of Il-6 and Il-1β, thereby promoting naïve T cells to differentiate into Th17 cells. Notably, Cxcr1 deficiency reduced the release of Il-6 and Il-1β from Ly6C⁺ cDC2s and shifted naïve T cells toward Treg differentiation, resulting in a decreased Th17/Treg ratio. In vivo, adoptive transfer of Ly6C⁺ cDC2s increased the Th17/Treg ratio in the lungs and spleens of LPS-treated mice, exacerbating lung injury. Specific depletion of Cxcr1 in DCs significantly reduced the severity of ALI and mortality. Mechanistically, it is found that Cxcr1 regulates the expression of Il-6 and Il-1β in Ly6C⁺ cDC2s through the MEK1/ERK/NF-κB pathway. Collectively, pro-inflammatory Ly6C⁺ cDC2s are identified as key effector cells mediating the role of Cxcr1 signaling in modulating T cell differentiation, driving the progression of ALI.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Proprionibacterium acnes (P. acnes)-induced inflammatory responses, proliferation and differentiation of keratinocytes contribute to the progression of acne vulgaris (AV). P. acnes was found to enhance the production of interleukin-8 (IL-8) by keratinocytes. This study aimed to investigate the role of IL-8 in P. acnes-induced proliferation and differentiation of keratinocytes and the underlying mechanism.The P. acnes-stimulated HaCaT cell (a human keratinocyte cell line) model was established. Western blotting and immunofluorescence were performed to detect the expression of the IL-8 receptors C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 1 (CXCR1) and C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 2 (CXCR2) on HaCaT cells. Cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assay, 5-ethynyl-20-deoxyuridine (EdU) assay and Western blotting were performed to examine the effects of IL-8/CXCR2 axis on the proliferation and differentiation of HaCaT cells treated with P. acnes, the IL-8 neutralizing antibody, the CXCR2 antagonist (SB225002), or the CXCR1/CXCR2 antagonist (G31P). Western blotting, nuclear and cytoplasmic separation, CCK-8 assay, and EdU assay were employed to determine the downstream pathway of CXCR2 after P. acnes-stimulated HaCaT cells were treated with the CXCR2 antagonist, the protein kinase B (AKT) antagonist (AZD5363), or the constitutively active forkhead box O1 (FOXO1) mutant. Finally, autophagy markers were measured in HaCaT cells following the transfection of the FOXO1 mutant or treatment with the autophagy inhibitor 3-methyladenine (3-MA).The expression levels of CXCR1 and CXCR2 were significantly increased on the membrane of HaCaT cells following P. acnes stimulation. The IL-8/CXCR2 axis predominantly promoted the proliferation and differentiation of P. acnes-induced HaCaT cells by activating AKT/FOXO1/autophagy signaling. In brief, IL-8 bound to its receptor CXCR2 on the membrane of keratinocytes to activate the AKT/FOXO1 axis. Subsequently, phosphorylated FOXO1 facilitated autophagy to promote the proliferation and differentiation of P. acnes-induced keratinocytes.This study demonstrated the novel autocrine effect of IL-8 on the proliferation and differentiation of P. acnes-induced keratinocytes, suggesting a potential therapeutic target for AV.© 2024. Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
Glioblastoma (GBM), an aggressive form of brain cancer, has a higher incidence in non-Hispanics when compared to the US Hispanic population. Using data from RT-PCR analysis of 21 GBM tissue from Hispanic patients in Puerto Rico, we identified significant correlations in the gene expression of focal adhesion kinase and proline-rich tyrosine kinase (PTK2 and PTK2B) with NGFR (nerve growth factor receptor), PDGFRB (platelet-derived growth factor receptor B), EGFR (epithelial growth factor receptor), and CXCR1 (C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 1). This study further explores these correlations found in gene expression while accounting for sex and ethnicity. Statistically significant (p < 0.05) correlations with an r value > ±0.7 were subsequently contrasted with mRNA expression data acquired from cBioPortal for 323 GBM specimens. Significant correlations in Puerto Rican male patients were found between PTK2 and PTK2B, NGFR, PDGFRB, EGFR, and CXCR1, which did not arise in non-Hispanic male patient data. The data for Puerto Rican female patients showed correlations in PTK2 with PTK2B, NGFR, PDGFRB, and EGFR, all of which did not appear in the data for non-Hispanic female patients. The data acquired from cBioPortal for non-Puerto Rican Hispanic patients supported the correlations found in the Puerto Rican population for both sexes. Our findings reveal distinct correlations in gene expression patterns, particularly involving PTK2, PTK2B, NGFR, PDGFRB, and EGFR among Puerto Rican Hispanic patients when compared to non-Hispanic counterparts.
The C-X-C motif chemokine receptor-1 (CXCR1) is a rhodopsin-like G-protein-coupled receptor, expressed on the cell surface of immune cells and tumors. CXCR1 interacts with some C-X-C chemokines, such as CXCL6, CXCL7, and CXCL8/interleukin-8, which are produced by various cells. Since CXCR1 is involved in several diseases including tumors and diabetes mellitus, drugs targeting CXCR1 have been developed. Therefore, the development of sensitive monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) for CXCR1 has been desired for the diagnosis and treatment. This study established a novel anti-mouse CXCR1 (mCXCR1) mAb, Cx1Mab-1 (rat IgG1, kappa), using the Cell-Based Immunization and Screening method. Cx1Mab-1 reacted with mCXCR1-overexpressed Chinese hamster ovary-K1 (CHO/mCXCR1) and mCXCR1-overexpressed LN229 glioblastoma (LN229/mCXCR1) in flow cytometry. Cx1Mab-1 demonstrated a high binding affinity for CHO/mCXCR1 and LN229/mCXCR1 with a dissociation constant of 2.6 × 10-9 M and 2.1 × 10-8 M, respectively. Furthermore, Cx1Mab-1 could detect mCXCR1 by Western blot analysis. These results indicated that Cx1Mab-1 is useful for detecting mCXCR1, and provides a possibility for targeting mCXCR1-expressing cells in vivo experiments.
The heterogeneity of tumour cells enables cancers to dynamically adapt to microenvironmental stresses during progression. However, the mechanism underlying the transformation and intercellular communication between heterogeneous tumour cells has remained elusive. Here, we report a "contagion model" that mediates intercellular transformation between heterogeneous tumour cells which facilitates tumour progression. Initially identifying heterogeneous expression of CXCR1, a receptor for interleukin-8, in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) tumour cells, we found that CXCR1High tumour cells had higher abilities for migration and invasion. Following interleukin-8-mediated activation, CXCR1High cells transformed CXCR1Low cells into CXCR1High cells through the secretion of small extracellular vesicles (sEVs), which increased the proportion of CXCR1High cells and facilitated tumour progression. Mechanistically, we demonstrate that sEVs derived from interleukin-8-activated CXCR1High cells contain high levels of ATP citrate lyase (ACLY), which acetylates NF-κB p65 and facilitates its nuclear translocation to transcribe CXCR1 in CXCR1Low cells. That process could be inhibited by Bempedoic acid, an FDA-approved ACLY-targeted drug. Taken together, our study reveals an sEV-mediated transformation of CXCR1Low to CXCR1High cells that promotes HNSCC progression. This provides a new paradigm to explain the dynamic changes of heterogeneous tumour cells, and identifies Bempedoic acid as a potential drug for HNSCC treatment.© 2024 The Authors. Journal of Extracellular Vesicles published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Society for Extracellular Vesicles.
Pneumonia is an inflammatory disease in lower respiratory tracts and its development involves the regulation of RNAs. Circular RNAs are a class of RNA subgroups that can mediate the progression of pneumonia. However, the molecular mechanism of circ_0026579 in regulating pneumonia occurrence remains unclear. The study is designed to reveal the role of circ_0026579 in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced human lung fibroblast cell injury and the underlying mechanism. The expression levels of circ_0026579, miR-370-3p and C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 1 (CXCR1) were detected by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction or by western blotting. The production of tumour necrosis factor-α, interleukin (IL)-1β and IL-6 was assessed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Malondialdehyde and superoxide dismutase levels were analysed using commercial kits. Cell viability, proliferation and apoptosis were analysed by cell counting kit-8 assay, 5-Ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine assay and flow cytometry analysis, respectively. The binding relationship between miR-370-3p and circ_0026579 or CXCR1 was identified by dual-luciferase reporter assay, RNA immunoprecipitation assay and RNA pull-down assay. Circ_0026579 and CXCR1 expression were significantly upregulated, whereas miR-370-3p was downregulated in the serum of pneumonia patients. LPS treatment induced inflammatory response, oxidative stress and cell apoptosis and inhibited cell proliferation in MRC-5 cells; however, these effects were reversed after circ_0026579 depletion. In terms of the mechanism, circ_0026579 acted as a miR-370-3p sponge, and miR-370-3p combined with CXCR1. Additionally, circ_0026579 depletion ameliorated LPS-induced MRC-5 cell disorder by increasing miR-370-3p expression. CXCR1 overexpression also relieved the miR-370-3p-mediated effects in LPS-treated MRC-5 cells. Further, circ_0026579 induced CXCR1 expression by interacting with miR-370-3p. Circ_0026579 absence ameliorated MRC-5 cell dysfunction induced by LPS through the regulation of the miR-370-3p/CXCR1 axis.© 2023 John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Building upon our previous finding that tumor-derived lactate activates DESMIN+ cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) to secrete interleukin-8 (IL-8), this study investigates the downstream IL-8/C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 2 (CXCR2) axis in CAF-mediated macrophage polarization and lung cancer (LC) progression.Orthotopic and subcutaneous tumor models were established in immunocompetent and immunodeficient mice using LC, CAFs, or murine tumor organoids (MTO). Global and myeloid-specific Cxcr2 knockout models, in vitro co-cultures (macrophages, CD8+ T cells, and tumor cells), and patient-derived organoid (PDO) systems were employed.DESMIN+ CAFs were the predominant source of IL-8 and promoted tumorigenesis and M2-like macrophage accumulation via the IL-8/CXCR2 axis. Genetic deletion of Cxcr2, myeloid-specific knockout, or pharmacological blockade reduced M2-like macrophage polarization through the PI3K/AKT/RhoA/MRTF-A/SRF pathway, restored CD8+ T cell effector function, and suppressed tumor progression. CXCR2 blockade also synergized with chemotherapy and anti-PD-L1 immunotherapy in murine models. In human PDO co-cultures with matched DESMIN+ CAFs and autologous CD8+ T cells, CXCR2 inhibition attenuated M2-like polarization and enhanced T cell-mediated killing of tumor organoids.DESMIN+ CAFs drive an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment in LC through IL-8/CXCR2 signaling and downstream MRTF-A activation. Targeting this axis represents a promising strategy to overcome treatment resistance in LC.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Local tumor progression and metastasis substantially compromise the therapeutic efficacy of thermal ablation in liver cancer. Although the inflammatory microenvironment contributes, the specific role of neutrophils after ablation remains unclear. This study aimed to clarify the roles of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) after thermal ablation and evaluate the translational potential of NETs-targeted strategies.The adverse prognostic impact of thermal ablation-induced neutrophil and inflammatory changes in liver cancer was retrospectively evaluated. Circulating NETs were quantified by ELISA, and their association with local tumor progression was analyzed. An orthotopic liver cancer mouse model and patient-derived neutrophils elucidated the spatiotemporal dynamics and mechanisms of ablation-induced NETs, and pharmacologic inhibition was used to investigate NET formation, function, and translational potential.Thermal ablation rapidly activates neutrophils, elicits a sustained local inflammatory response and NET formation, which is closely associated with poor prognosis in patients with liver cancer. Depletion of neutrophils, inhibition of NET formation, or degradation of thermal ablation-induced NETs markedly suppressed post-ablation tumor progression. Mechanistically, tumor cell-intrinsic reactive oxygen species generated under heat stress contributed to nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) activation, promoting p65 binding to theC-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1 (CXCL1) promoter and transcriptional upregulation of CXCL1. This process drove CXCL1-C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 2 (CXCR2) signaling and led to the formation of a characteristic band-like NETs-enriched zone at the peri-ablational margin. In turn, NETs activated toll-like receptor (TLR)9-dependent NF-κB,mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling in heat-stressed cancer cells, reinforcing a pro-inflammatory feedback loop. Concurrently, NETs impaired CD8+ T-cell responses and fostered an immunosuppressive microenvironment. Together, this coordinated pro-inflammatory and immunosuppressive effect promotes liver cancer progression following thermal ablation, which can be effectively reversed by dual blockade of NF-κB and CXCR2.Our research uncovers a novel mechanism underlying tumor-promoting inflammation after thermal ablation, highlighting the critical role of NETs as mediators through TLR9 activation of downstream inflammatory pathways and the significant potential of NETs-targeted strategies in combination with thermal ablation.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42372954 is a review article
Dysregulated neutrophilic inflammation is a hallmark of severe COVID-19, but the mechanisms driving human peripheral neutrophils (HPNs) recruitment remain incompletely defined. C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 2 (CXCR2), a key chemokine receptor on HPNs, is essential for HPNs recruitment during viral pneumonia. However, the role and underlying regulatory mechanisms of CXCR2 on HPNs during viral pneumonia remain unclear.We enrolled 66 COVID-19 patients (30 mild, 33 severe) and 31 healthy controls (HCs). The content of HPNs and the CXCR2 expression on the HPNs were tracked using flow cytometry, RT-qPCR, and ELISA. Transcriptomic sequencing identified differential pathways in the patients. In vitro, HPNs and lung epithelial cells (A549, BEAS-2B) were stimulated with the viral mimic poly(I: C) and treated with pathway inhibitors (CXCR2: SB225002; RIG-I: BX795; MEK: PD98059). In vivo, a poly(I: C)-induced acute lung injury mouse model was used to confirm the roles of RIG-I and CXCR2 in lung injury progression.Severe patients exhibited a higher HPN percentage and CXCR2 expression. Higher CXCR2 expression was correlated with poor prognosis and elevated inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-8). In vitro, poly(I: C) triggered lung epithelial cells to produce CXCR2 ligands (CXCL1/2/8), increase pro-inflammatory factors, and promote the HPNs migration to epithelial cells. However, CXCR2 antagonists could reduce the HPNs recruitment and inflammatory factors in HPNs supernatants. Mechanistically, poly(I: C)-mediated activation of intracellular RIG-I upregulated CXCR2 expression on HPNs via the MAPK pathway. In vivo, inhibiting CXCR2, RIG-I, or depleting neutrophils significantly alleviated poly(I: C)-induced inflammatory lung injury, inflammation, and neutrophil infiltration.Our study identifies the RIG-I-MAPK-CXCR2 axis as a novel pathogenic signaling cascade that drives dysregulated neutrophilic inflammation in COVID-19, providing a basis for novel therapeutic strategies against respiratory viral infections.© 2026. The Author(s).
Wumei Pill (WMP) is a classic traditional Chinese medicine formula recorded in Zhang Zhongjing's Treatise on Febrile Diseases for the treatment of "Xiao Ke" (consumptive thirst, analogous to diabetes mellitus). Historically, it has been used to treat diabetes mellitus and neurological dysfunction. However, its therapeutic effect on diabetic encephalopathy (DE) and the underlying mechanisms remain unclear.To explore the therapeutic effect of WMP on diabetic encephalopathy and elucidate whether it exerts neuroprotective effects via CXCL1/CXCR2 signaling-mediated neuroinflammation, particularly given the lack of effective treatments for DE and the unclear neuroprotective mechanism of WMP.Leptin receptor-deficient (db/db) mice and high-fat diet/streptozotocin (HFD/STZ)-induced type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) mice were administered WMP intragastrically for 8 weeks. A validated HPLC method was applied to ensure consistent and stable contents of representative bioactive components in all WMP preparations used throughout the study. Cognitive function was evaluated using Morris water maze and novel object recognition tests, while metabolic parameters including body weight (BW) and fasting blood glucose (FBG) were assessed. Hippocampal pathological changes were observed via HE and Nissl staining. Network pharmacology and transcriptomics were performed to screen active components, potential targets, and key differentially expressed genes (DEGs) of WMP against DE. Western blot, ELISA, and immunological assays were used to quantify key protein and cytokine levels. In vitro assays were further conducted to verify the dependence on the target signaling pathway.WMP reduced BW and FBG, ameliorated cognitive impairments as shown by shortened escape latency, increased platform crossings, and an improved novel object recognition index. It also increased the number of neurons in the hippocampal CA1 and CA3 regions and upregulated the expression of synaptic proteins. Network pharmacology and transcriptomics analysis revealed that the C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1 (CXCL1)/C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 2 (CXCR2) axis played a key role in WMP-mediated protection against DE. In vivo, WMP significantly inhibited the hippocampal CXCL1/CXCR2 axis and reduced the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α/IL-1β) in diabetic mice. In vitro experiments further demonstrated that WMP exerted neuroprotective effects indirectly rather than directly acting on hippocampal neurons: it notably suppressed high glucose-induced CXCL1 upregulation and protein secretion in astrocytes. Notably, the neuroprotective effect of WMP was abolished by exogenous recombinant CXCL1, confirming the essential role of astrocyte-derived CXCL1.WMP ameliorates metabolic disorders and cognitive dysfunction in DE by targeting the astrocyte-neuron CXCL1/CXCR2 axis. This action is mediated by inhibiting astrocytic CXCL1 secretion and subsequent CXCL1/CXCR2-driven neuroinflammation, thus preserving hippocampal neuronal integrity. Our findings reveal a novel mechanism for WMP and provide a promising therapeutic strategy for DE.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
BACKGROUND: Atrial fibrillation (AF) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are highly prevalent conditions that significantly impact patient outcomes. While mounting evidence suggests a strong epidemiological and clinical association between AF and COPD, the molecular basis underlying their frequent co-occurrence remains incompletely characterized. Rather than inferring direct disease-specific mechanistic links, this study aimed to identify shared systemic inflammatory and immune-related transcriptional signatures that are detectable across different tissues in AF and COPD. RESULTS: A total of 208 DEGs were found to be shared between AF and COPD. Functional enrichment analyses indicated that these genes were predominantly associated with inflammatory, immune, and extracellular matrix–related biological processes, including the NOD-like receptor, Influenza A, Phospholipase D, and ECM-receptor interaction pathways. PPI network analysis and external dataset verification highlighted CASP1, CXCR2, and IFIT5 as reproducibly upregulated genes across independent AF and COPD transcriptomic datasets. Their elevated expression was further observed in AF, COPD, and comorbid samples in exploratory validation experiments. No single TF or miRNA was found to simultaneously regulate all three genes, suggesting heterogeneous and context-dependent regulatory patterns rather than a unified regulatory axis. Drug–gene association analysis identified estradiol and methyl methanesulfonate as compounds computationally linked to the shared gene set, without implying biological efficacy or therapeutic applicability. CONCLUSION: This study delineates shared inflammatory and immune-related transcriptional signatures observed across AF and COPD datasets, highlighting common pathways and candidate genes that may reflect systemic inflammatory states. These findings are hypothesis-generating and primarily reflect shared systemic inflammatory and immune responses rather than disease-specific causal mechanisms, providing a bioinformatic framework for future mechanistic and clinical investigations.
An excessive inflammatory response plays a central role in the pathogenesis of ulcerative colitis (UC), but the specific cytokines involved remain unclear. This study aimed to identify inflammatory factors associated with UC and explore the possible mechanisms of the identified targets.Protein quantitative trait loci (pQTLs) and expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) for inflammatory cytokines were obtained from a genome-wide pQTL study and the eQTL consortium, respectively. Summary data for UC from the exploration and validation cohorts were derived from a genome-wide association study and the Finngen cohort. MR and colocalization analyses were conducted to identify causal associations between inflammatory cytokines and UC. Bioinformatics analyses were employed to explore the involved biological processes of candidate targets. Immunohistochemistry was used to validate the expression of these candidate targets in colon tissues.Among all inflammatory cytokines, a significant causal association was identified between C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 5 (CXCL5) and UC. Using eQTL data, a significant genetic association was established between the mRNA expression of CXCL5 and its receptor, C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 2 (CXCR2), with UC. Colocalization analysis further supported these identified links. Differential expression analysis confirmed the dysregulation of the CXCL5/CXCR2 axis in UC patients. Enrichment and immune infiltration analysis indicated that the CXCL5/CXCR2 axis was involved in neutrophil chemotaxis and immune activation in UC. Moreover, CXCL5 expression was found to correlate with neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation in UC. Immunohistochemistry further confirmed the dysregulation of the CXCL5/CXCR2 axis in colon tissues of UC patients.The CXCL5/CXCR2 axis has been implicated to play a significant role within a broader inflammatory network that includes Interleukin (IL)-17, NF-κB, and Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF) signaling pathways. Additionally, this axis interacts with macrophages and T cells, further contributing to the complexity of inflammatory responses in UC.There is a significant association between CXCL5/CXCR2 and UC under the MR assumption, which is potentially linked with colonic chemotaxis and activation of neutrophils. These findings highlight the potential of CXCL5/CXCR2 as a therapeutic target for UC. However, future functional studies are needed to validate these findings and explore the exact mechanisms by which CXCL5/CXCR2 influences immune cell crosstalk in UC.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41565033 is a review article
Neutrophil recruitment to inflamed tissue is mediated by adhesion molecules and chemokine signaling. Fuzapladib sodium hydrate (FZP) has been reported to reduce neutrophil infiltration, but its broader effect on adhesion molecules in dogs remains unclear. This study investigated the influence of FZP on canine aortic endothelial cells (CnAOEC) and primary neutrophils under cytokine stimulation. CnAOEC were treated with recombinant canine tumor necrosis factor alpha (rh-cTNFα) or lipopolysaccharide together with FZP, while neutrophils isolated from healthy dogs were preincubated with FZP before rh-cTNFα stimulation for gene and protein expression analyses. Expression of endothelial E-selectin, P-selectin, and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) was quantified by qPCR. Neutrophil C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 2, P-selectin glycoprotein ligand-1 (PSGL-1), and L-selectin were also analyzed using qPCR. In addition, C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1 and leukocyte function-associated antigen-1 (LFA-1) were determined using ELISA and flow cytometry, respectively. Neutrophil adhesion to FZP-treated endothelial monolayers was evaluated under static conditions. FZP significantly downregulated endothelial P-selectin at the highest dose, whereas ICAM-1 was upregulated. In neutrophils, FZP decreased L-selectin and PSGL-1 expression at the highest concentration. These findings suggest that FZP selectively modulates early adhesion through suppression of P-selectin, L-selectin, and PSGL-1, which may weaken rolling and tethering interactions between cells. Although functional adhesion effects were limited, these molecular responses provide further insight into the anti-inflammatory effect of FZP.
White matter lesions (WMLs) are increasingly recognized as early and critical pathological features of Parkinson's disease (PD). C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 2 (Cxcr2) plays an important role in regulating oligodendrocyte progenitor cell (OPC) maturation and WMLs repair. However, the functional roles and underlying mechanisms of Cxcr2 in the pathogenesis of PD remain unclear. In the present study, we demonstrated that Cxcr2 expression progressively increased with PD progression across multiple PD models and was positively correlated with the severity of WMLs. Pharmacological inhibition of Cxcr2 with SB225002 promoted OPC differentiation and myelin repair, thereby alleviating WMLs and gait disturbances in MPTP-induced PD mice. These improvements further contributed to the attenuation of dopaminergic neurodegeneration and nigrostriatal pathway-related motor deficits in PD mice. Proteomic analysis identified synaptojanin 1 (Synj1) as a key downstream effector of Cxcr2 in OPCs. We revealed that inhibition of Cxcr2 could promote oligodendrocyte-neuron communication via Synj1-mediated vesicular transport, thereby preserving axonal integrity and neuronal function. In conclusion, this study uncovered the protective role and mechanisms of Cxcr2 inhibition on dopaminergic neurons through attenuating WMLs, highlighting Cxcr2 as a potential therapeutic target for PD.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Chronic unresolved inflammation is a common feature of several Central Nervous System (CNS) disorders, including autism spectrum disorder (ASD). We previously demonstrated that Formyl Peptide Receptor 2 (FPR2) activation by our agonist MR-39 reduced several inflammatory markers and improved social behavior in two validated animal models of ASD. Therefore, we decided to delve deeper into the potential of MR-39 as a drug for treating ASD. We first investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects of MR-39 in BTBR mice. MR-39 significantly normalized pro-inflammatory cytokine release and NF-κB expression in the hippocampus and cortex, resulting in upregulation of synaptophysin protein levels, which, in turn, promote plasticity and correct abnormalities in dendritic spine morphology. Next, we characterized the safety and pharmacokinetic profile of MR-39 with respect to potential advancement for further pre- and clinical studies. We found that MR-39 was not genotoxic and safe to use since it had limited interaction with the majority of the targets associated with the adverse drug reaction. Consistently, a repeated-dose administration study evidenced no clinical signs attributable to treatment-related toxicity. On the other hand, MR-39 exhibited rapid hepatocyte clearance and interaction with efflux systems in vitro, suggesting possible limitations due to its pharmacokinetic properties. Finally, we explored multiple strategies to overcome MR-39's low aqueous solubility, finding that the cosolvent approach can greatly enhance solubility and wettability. Overall, our study confirmed that promoting inflammation resolution with MR-39 can open new therapeutic options for ASD and that this compound has potential as a drug.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
Circadian rhythms are intrinsic time-keeping mechanisms that play a critical role in tuning immunity. Here, we investigated the impact of circadian rhythms on the pathogenesis of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a mouse model for multiple sclerosis (MS). We demonstrate that circulating neutrophils in blood significantly increase early in EAE, prior to symptoms onset. Importantly, we found that these cells infiltrate the central nervous system (CNS) in a time-of-day (ToD)-dependent manner, with increased infiltration at the onset of the behavioral active phase of the mice (evening). Transcriptomic analysis of CNS-infiltrating neutrophils revealed distinct ToD-dependent gene expression profiles, which identified Formyl peptide receptor 2 (FPR2) as a potential therapeutic candidate, since pharmacological inhibition of FPR2 led to reduced EAE disease severity. Furthermore, combinatorial treatment with a drug that targets VLA-4 (used in clinical practice under the trade name Natalizumab to treat MS) led to additive effects, substantially reducing EAE symptoms. Together, these findings highlight the importance of circadian immune cell dynamics during EAE development and provide a characterization of the circadian immune landscape in an animal model of MS, identifying potential targets for MS therapies.
Peptide-based drug candidates are often susceptible to enzymatic degradation in the gastrointestinal environment and biological matrices, while exhibiting limited intestinal permeability. In developing strategies to overcome these limitations, it is important to quantitatively evaluate the factors contributing to low systemic exposure and to understand the metabolic fate of peptides. This study utilized an integrated analytical approach combining quantitative analysis via liquid chromatography tandem-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and metabolite profiling via LC-quadrupole time-of-flight MS (LC-QTOF-MS) to characterize the metabolic fate and evaluate the oral dosing feasibility of WKYMVm (Wm), a formyl peptide receptor 2 agonist. A validated LC-MS/MS assay enabled quantification of Wm in mouse plasma with acceptable accuracy (95.2-115.7%) and precision (<8.6%). LC-QTOF-MS analysis identified eight metabolites (M1-M8) in mouse plasma, predominantly formed via sequential N-terminal cleavage with oxidative modifications. Plasma stability data were then simultaneously fitted to a structural parent-metabolite kinetic model, which identified the formation of M4 as the predominant pathway (fraction metabolized (fm) = 0.501), followed by M2 (fm = 0.262), indicating preferential cleavage at the Lys-Tyr bond. To predict oral dosing feasibility, Caco-2 bi-directional transport data were analyzed using a catenary model, while luminal degradation and hepatic metabolism were estimated using simulated gastric and intestinal fluids and mouse liver S9 fraction. When the experimentally obtained parameters were incorporated into simplified models, the results revealed limited intestinal and hepatic availability under the tested conditions. This integrated analytical and modeling approach identified the metabolic liabilities of Wm, informing the design of Wm analogs to enhance metabolic stability.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42199097
Although the extracellular matrix (ECM) is a highly dynamic partner of the immune system, its immunoregulatory role during the early phase of sepsis-induced acute lung injury (ALI) remains poorly defined. Using a murine cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) model, we observed dynamic ECM remodeling characterized by rapid collagen loss within 24 h, followed by a pathological fibroproliferation phase. Proteomic profiling of the degraded ECM demonstrated its immunoregulatory potential. In vitro studies revealed that annexin A1 (ANXA1), an upregulated ECM component, promoted anti-inflammatory macrophage polarization via the formyl-peptide receptor 2/lipoxin A4 (FPR2/ALX)-dependent 5'-adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK)-mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway. However, under pathological conditions, collagen loss markedly reduces the number of key binding sites for integrin β1 (Itgb1), thereby disrupting macrophage-ECM adhesion and resulting in macrophage detachment; upon entering the inflammatory microenvironment, these cells acquire a proinflammatory phenotype, exacerbating pulmonary inflammation. Capitalizing on the collagen biosynthetic function of ascorbic acid (AA), we investigated its capacity to restore macrophage-ECM adhesion therapeutically. In vitro, treatment of fibroblasts with AA on decellularized CLP-ECM increased collagen deposition and improved macrophage adhesion. In vivo, intratracheal instillation of AA (20 mg/kg) enhanced collagen biosynthesis, which promoted ECM restoration, sustained interstitial macrophage retention, suppressed proinflammatory cytokine production, and ultimately resolved lung injury. Our study reveals that ECM degradation is an early immunoregulatory event and suggests a therapeutic approach for ECM repair via airway-targeted AA delivery in ALI.© 2026. Science China Press.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42162635 is a review article
Oxidative stress and inflammation are two closely related pathogenesis processes during ischemic injury. The current study investigated the neuroprotective effects of resolvin D1 (RvD1, a pro-resolving mediator) and its corresponding receptor formyl peptide receptor 2 (FPR2) in a rat model of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Dynamic expressions of endogenous RvD1 and FPR2 in ischemic hemisphere were firstly examined by ELISA and western blot respectively. To explore the therapeutic effects of RvD1/FPR2 on ischemic injury, exogenous RvD1 were given at 0.4 µg/kg after MCAO (i.p.). Boc-2 (specific FPR2 antagonist to inhibit effects of RvD1/FPR2) were administered at 0.4 mg/kg (i.p.) 30 min before MCAO to inhibit the binding of RvD1 to FPR2. For evaluating ischemic injury, neurological performances were determined by deficit score and grip strength, and infarction volume were assayed by TTC. Neuronal damage was further observed by stainings of H&E, Fluoro-Jade C (FJC), and TUNEL. Inflammation markers were assayed by MPO immunostaining and mRNA dectection. Oxidative stress was determined by related kits (MDA, NO, GSH and SOD) and MitoSOX staining. Our results showed that endogenous cerebral levels of RvD1 were decreased after focal ischemia, but expression of FPR2 was increased. Exogenous RvD1 treatment alleviated neurological deficits, reduced infarct volume and attenuated neuronal apoptosis, however, inhibition of FPR2 by Boc-2 inhibited these effects. Furthermore, RvD1 reduced MPO positive cells and mRNA levels of pro-inflammatory mediators (TNF-α, IL-1β, and iNOS), but increased mRNA levels of anti-inflammatory mediators (TGF-β1 and IL-10). Concurrently, RvD1 inhibited oxidative stress, evidenced by down-regulated pro-oxidative mediators (such as MDA and NO) and up-regulated anti-oxidative mediators (SOD and GSH). Boc-2 alleviated the anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant effects of RvD1. Mechanistically, RvD1 decreased expression of NOX2 in microglia and astrocytes, while co-administration of Boc-2 reversed these effects. These finding demonstrate that RvD1/FPR2 alleviated cerebral ischemic injury by attenuating inflammation and oxidative stress, which is beneficial to break the vicious cycle between inflammation and oxidative stress, thus highlighting its potential role in treatment for ischemic stroke.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aimed to evaluate the antidepressant activity of Piper laetispicum extract and preliminarily explore its underlying mechanism using a zebrafish model of depression combined with quantitative proteomics. A chronic unpredictable mild stress(CUMS) paradigm was employed to establish the depression model. AB strain zebrafish were randomly assigned into four groups: control, model, P. laetispicum, and fluoxetine, with 15 fish in each group. Except the control group, all groups were subjected to CUMS for 2 weeks. Intervention of P. laetispicum extract or fluoxetine lasted for 3 consecutive weeks. Upon completion of the experiment, the pathological morphology of zebrafish brain tissue was observed, and the expression levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha(TNF-α), interleukin-1 beta(IL-1β), brain-derived neurotrophic factor(BDNF), and 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2A(5-HT2A) were measured in each group. Brain tissue proteins were extracted and subjected to quantitative proteomic analysis to identify differentially expressed proteins(DEPs), which was followed by bioinformatics analysis. Key DEPs were validated using Western blot and RT-qPCR. The results demonstrated that P. laetispicum extract significantly ameliorated CUMS-induced brain histopathological damage, reduced the levels of the inflammatory cytokines TNF-α and IL-1β, and reversed the aberrant expression of BDNF and 5-HT2A. Proteomic profiling identified a total of 11 633 proteins, among which the expression levels of 81 proteins were markedly reversed following P. laetispicum extract treatment. Subsequent validation by Western blot and RT-qPCR confirmed that P. laetispicum significantly modulated the expression of annexin A1(Anxa1) and transcription factor JunB(JunB). Collectively, these findings suggest that P. laetispicum exerts antidepressant effects potentially through the regulation of Anxa1 and JunB expression.
Cognitive improvement is mediated by repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) in Alzheimer's disease (AD), and connectome gradient analysis has important potential to explore more comprehensive information for treatment efficacy. However, it remains unclear whether and how rTMS mediates connectome gradient reconstruction and its spatial neurotransmitter associations in subjects on the AD spectrum.A total of 84 subjects on the AD spectrum underwent 4 weeks of conventional neuronavigated rTMS targeting the left angular gyrus (20 Hz, 20 sessions over 4 weeks, 20 minutes per session), including 60 subjects with true stimulation and 24 with sham stimulation. This study identified functional connectome gradients and investigated their neuroplasticity between pre- and post-rTMS intervention. A support vector regression model was subsequently used to explore the cognitive prediction value of baseline measures. Finally, connectome‒neurotransmitter association analysis was used to investigate neurotransmitter profiles related to rTMS therapeutic efficacy.These findings showed that rTMS treatment mainly mediated the decreased gradient values in the somatomotor regions and such baseline values of these regions showed preliminary predictive value for memory improvement after treatment (R 2: 0.40-0.63, mean absolute error: 1.54-3.19, root mean square error: 1.98-3.94, p = 0.0002). Moreover, connectome-neurotransmitter association analysis suggested spatial associations between these gradient changes and normative metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) and 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2A (5HT2a) receptor distributions.rTMS mediates plasticity in high-order metric levels in the brain and is linked to the spatial distributions of specific neurotransmitter receptors in subjects on the AD spectrum.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42482371 is a review article
Astrocytes participate in the clearance of obsolete or unwanted neuronal synapses. However, the molecular machinery involved in synapse recognition remains unclear, particularly in pathological conditions. Here, we investigated the phagocytic process of astrocytes through individual gene silencing using a druggable gene library. Our study demonstrates that the Atypical chemokine receptor 3 (Ackr3) is a major player of astrocyte-mediated synapse engulfment. Mechanistically, we showed that Ackr3 recognizes phosphatidylethanolamine (PE)-bound C-X-C motif chemokine 12 (CXCL12) at synaptic terminals, thus serving as a novel marker of synaptic dysfunction. Notably, both ACKR3 and CXCL12 are upregulated in post-mortem brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, and AD mouse models. Genetic downregulation of Ackr3 in AD mice significantly reduces astrocyte-mediated synaptic elimination and rescues pathological phenotypes, including synapse loss and cognitive impairment. Overall, this work unveils a novel, possibly targetable mechanism of astrocyte-mediated synaptic engulfment implicated in neurodegenerative disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
New psychoactive substances (NPS) are a heterogeneous group of recreational drugs that mimic the actions and psychoactive effects of existing pharmaceutical products or recreational drugs. As NPS can be highly potent, even exceeding their template compound's potency, there are frequent reports of non-fatal and fatal intoxications. One principal target for hallucinogenic and psychedelic drugs, including NPS, is the 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2A (5-HT2A). Since NPS are designed to evade legal restrictions, this drug market is quickly evolving, and researchers are playing catch-up, investigating these novel compounds for their toxicological and pharmacological properties. Receptor binding affinity (Ki) is an important property describing ligand-receptor interactions and is a prerequisite for receptor activation. Competitive in vitro assays can be used to assess Ki; this is a resource-intensive process. We used publicly available Ki data for the 5-HT2A, calculated molecular descriptors and fingerprints, and trained five classification machine learning models. The predictive performance of the models had precisions and recalls up to 93% and 92%, respectively. We used explainable artificial intelligence, i.e., SHAP values and similarity maps, for model interpretation. The results are in line with previous experiments and support its suitability to predict the binding affinities of possible 5-HT2A ligands.
The occurrence of nephrotoxicity induced by Vancomycin (Van) has been documented in both experimental models and clinical patients. In this study, we aimed to identify potential gene targets by utilizing Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets and a Van-induced mouse model.Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were filtered using GEO datasets (GSE7793), and a mouse model of nephrotoxicity was established by administering Van (400 mg/kg/day for 7 days) via intravenous injection.A total of 485 DEGs were identified, consisting of 335 upregulated and 150 downregulated genes, based on the criteria of |Log2(fold change)| > 2 and p.adj < 0.05. Through the analysis of protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks, 15 hub genes were identified, suggesting that the kininogen 1 (Kng1)/bradykinin receptor B2 (Bdkrb2) system may play a central role in Van-induced nephrotoxicity. In our mouse model, Van treatment resulted in cell apoptosis and tubular injury in the kidney. The mRNA expression levels of Kng1 and Bdkrb2 were significantly increased in Van-treated mice compared with normal mice. Furthermore, we found that absinthin acts as a potential inhibitor of Bdkrb2 and effectively ameliorates Van-induced podocyte apoptosis and reduces the levels of renal injury biomarkers, including serum creatinine (Cre), blood urea nitrogen (BUN), and malondialdehyde (MDA).Our findings suggest that targeting Kng1/Bdkrb2 may offer a potential therapeutic strategy for mitigating Van-induced nephrotoxicity. These findings suggest that absinthin may serve as a renal protective agent against drug-induced nephrotoxicity.©The Author(s) 2026. Open Access. This article is licensed under a Creative Commons CC-BY International License.
Arrestins regulate G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling by binding phosphorylated receptors embedded in lipid bilayers, yet how receptor phosphorylation and membrane composition cooperate to control arrestin activation remains unclear. Here, we reconstitute this interplay using N-terminally palmitoylated phosphopeptides tethered to nanodiscs of defined lipid composition and quantitatively measure arrestin-2 (Arr2) activation and membrane engagement. We find that both receptor phosphorylation and the lipid environment are essential for robust Arr2 activation, with phosphoinositides (PIPs) and other anionic lipids facilitating Arr2 activation and membrane association through distinct mechanisms. Systematic profiling of phosphorylation barcodes derived from atypical chemokine receptor 3 (ACKR3) and vasopressin receptor 2 (V2R) identifies phospho-motifs that potently activate Arr2. Moreover, the position of these motifs relative to the membrane determines Arr2 engagement, supporting a model of regional phosphorylation barcodes. Genome-wide motif analysis further links the phosphorylation barcode to predicted arrestin coupling strength and classification into Class A or Class B GPCRs. Finally, lipidated phosphopeptides inhibit GPCR-Arr2 interactions in live cells and enable structural characterization of Arr2-phosphopeptide complexes by cryo-electron microscopy, establishing a membrane-integrated framework for decoding arrestin response.
This study aims to clarify the protective effect of miR-766-3p on brain injury caused by intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH), and to reveal the mechanisms by which it regulates neural function, neuroinflammation, and brain edema.An ICH rat model was constructed and PC12 cells were treated with hemin to simulate neuronal injury. Quantitative reverse transcription PCR was used to detect the expression of miR-766-3p and inflammatory factors. Cell counting kit-8 and flow cytometry were used to assess cell viability and apoptosis. Brain edema was evaluated by the dry-wet method. Neurological function was assessed through the Garcia score, forelimb placement test, and corner turn test. The dual-luciferase reporter assay and RNA immunoprecipitation were employed to validate the targeting relationship between miR-766-3p and bradykinin receptor B2 (BDKRB2).The expression of miR-766-3p was significantly downregulated in the brain tissue surrounding the hematoma and PC12 cells. Overexpression of miR-766-3p increased the survival rate of neuronal cells, inhibited apoptosis, and reduced the release of inflammatory factors. In vivo experiments demonstrated that this intervention measure improved neurological function scores and placement rate of the forelimbs while alleviating turning disorders, brain edema, and neuroinflammation. miR-766-3p directly targets BDKRB2 and inhibits its expression. Overexpression of BDKRB2 completely reversed the neuroprotective effects of miR-766-3p.miR-766-3p alleviates neuroinflammation, cerebral edema, and neuronal damage caused by ICH by targeting and inhibiting BDKRB2.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
All cells secrete extracellular vesicles (EVs) containing nucleic acid cargo, including microRNAs (miRNAs), that regulate the function of receiving cells. G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) affect intracellular function via multiple signaling cascades. However, the mechanisms of GPCR intercellular signaling through EV miRNA activity remain unknown. Human U2 osteosarcoma cells expressing native GPCRs were used to selectively stimulate distinct G protein signaling cascades (Gαi, Gαq, Gα12/13, and β-arrestin) by members of specific receptor subclasses, including the adenosine receptor A1 (ADORA1), the histamine receptor H1 (HRH1), the frizzled class receptor 4 (FZD4), and the atypical chemokine receptor 3 (ACKR3), respectively. We hypothesized that stimulation of specific classes of GPCRs would cause the release of EVs containing miRNAs with receptor-specific up- or downregulated expression, affecting unique pathological downstream signaling cascades. Receptor-specific agonists dose-dependently increased respective signaling cascade intermediates. We found no change in the quantity of EVs (~200 nm diameter), but there were distinct EV miRNA signatures following stimulation of GPCRs. Network analyses of differentially expressed miRNA and their predicted targets validated the linkage between specific receptors and cell function and pathological states. The data can be used to reverse engineer mechanisms involving EV miRNAs for various physiological and pathological processes. GPCRs are major pharmacological targets, so understanding the mechanisms that stimulate or inhibit GPCR-mediated changes in extracellular miRNA signatures could improve long- and short-term therapeutic and unwanted drug effects.
Obesity remains a major global health challenge, and current pharmacotherapies have limitations in long-term efficacy, safety, and cost. Broccoli (Brassica oleracea L. var. italica) seeds are a rich source of sulforaphane (SFN), which has demonstrated anti-obesity effects. However, the bioavailability of SFN from broccoli seeds is limited by suboptimal conversion conditions and competing nitrile-formation pathways.This study aims to standardize a high-yield, SFN-rich broccoli seed hydrolysate (BSH), to evaluate its anti-obesity efficacy in mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD), and to elucidate its mechanism via molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD).SFN hydrolysis was optimized by Liquid chromatography-high-resolution mass spectrometry (LC-HRMS) and High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) across pH, temperature, time, and L-ascorbic acid; 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2A (5-HT2A) binding was probed by network pharmacology, molecular docking, and 100 ns MD. HFD-fed male C57BL/6 mice (n = 6 per group) received oral broccoli seed water extract (BWE), BSH, or SFN for 8 weeks. Anti-obesity efficacy was assessed by body/tissue weights, micro-computed tomography (Micro-CT), histology, and serum lipid profiling, while 5-HT2A, adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylation and other markers in epididymal white adipose tissue (eWAT) and liver were assessed by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and Western blot.SFN production from broccoli seeds was maximized under two hydrolysis regimes: short-term (pH 4 at 35°C for 2 h) and long-term (pH 5 at 25°C for 24 h). In silico analyses predicted stable binding of the sulforaphane-glutathione conjugate (SFN-GSH) to 5-HT2A. In HFD-fed mice, BSH (40-800 mg/kg, p.o.) dose-dependently attenuated HFD-induced body weight gain (800 mg/kg vs HFD, p < 0.001). BWE 400 mg/kg and BSH 40 mg/kg showed broadly comparable effects on body weight. Furthermore, gene and protein analyses in eWAT and liver showed 5-HT2A (Htr2a) suppression, restored AMPK phosphorylation, and downregulation of lipogenic regulators. However, co-administration of the AMPK inhibitor Compound C (5 mg/kg, i.p.) with BSH abolished these BSH-induced effects. Oral administration of a sulforaphane standard (1-10 mg/kg) produced similar effects to BSH (10 mg/kg vs HFD, p < 0.01), suggesting that the anti-obesity effect of BSH is mediated primarily by SFN.In this study, SFN-rich BSH ameliorated obesity in HFD-fed mice via a peripheral 5-HT2A suppression-AMPK activation axis. However, further mechanistic clarification will require studies to more precisely define the role of 5-HT2A in adipocytes.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Maternal care plays a pivotal role in the brain and behavioral development of offspring. However, the neural substrates underlying the effects of oxytocin (OT) on maternal-like behavior remain incompletely understood. Using OTR-Cre female mice, fiber photometry was utilized to monitor the calcium signals in oxytocin receptor (OTR) neurons. We observed elevated activity of adBNST (anterodorsal bed nucleus of the stria terminalis) OTR neurons during pup-caring behavior, as indicated by increased calcium signals. Chemogenetic activation of adBNST OTR neurons prolonged duration of licking pups, whereas inhibiting these neurons reduced the time of licking pups and prolonged the latency to retrieve pups. Additionally, microinjection of OT into the adBNST increased the time of licking pups, while administration of an oxytocin receptor antagonist (OTA) suppressed pup-caring behavior. Collectively, these findings not only deepen our understanding of the neural basis underlying maternal-like behavior but also provide a potential target for treating or mitigating aberrant maternal care associated with postpartum depression, anxiety or related disorders.
Efforts to fully characterize the diversity of mechanisms underlying energy balance control have led to the identification of atypical sites of action for metabolic signals. The locus coeruleus (LC), a major noradrenergic nucleus of the brain, has recently been shown to regulate aspects of food intake and energy expenditure. We use complementary pharmacological, behavioral, immunohistochemical, and genetic approaches in both rats and mice to demonstrate the role of LC calcitonin receptors (CTR) in feeding behavior. LC neurons robustly express CTRs that can be pharmacologically and chemogenetically activated to potently inhibit food intake and body weight without inducing nausea or changes in autonomic physiology including heart rate, body temperature, and gastric emptying. We next examined the ability of amylin and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), two endogenous anorectic peptides that signal through the CTR, to modulate feeding through signaling in the LC. RNAscope analysis revealed that LC CTRs are in fact capable of responding to amylin and CGRP, as they co-express RAMP1, and microinjections of either peptide to the LC induces anorexia without nausea. Together, these findings identify LC CTRs as a previously unrecognized neural substrate through which amylin and CGRP signaling suppress feeding, with direct relevance to the mechanisms underlying emerging amylin-based obesity therapeutics.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
The gut mycobiome plays an essential role in human health, yet its influence on the progression of arterial stiffness, a key feature of vascular aging, remains obscure. In this study, we aimed to investigate the involvement of intestinal fungi in the exacerbation of arterial stiffness. In total, 763 participants were invited for the brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity test to determine their status of arterial stiffness. The gut mycobiome was identified through internal transcribed spacer sequencing, host genetics were determined by genotyping arrays, and plasma metabolites were quantified using untargeted liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. A less clustered but more communicative fungal community was found in individuals with elevated stiffness. Five driving fungal genera contributing to the shift of fungal interaction networks from normal to elevated stiffness, including Apiotrichum, Mycothermus, Flavocillium, Hyaloscypha, and Microscypha, were associated with arterial stiffness. Integrative analysis with metabolomics further demonstrated that organic acids, fatty acyls, and alkaloids mediated the effect of Apiotrichum, Mycothermus, and Microscypha on arterial stiffness. Moreover, alpha-1A adrenergic receptor, alpha-2B adrenergic receptor, cytochrome P450 Family 11 subfamily B member 2, angiotensin I converting enzyme, angiotensin II receptor type 1, matrix metallopeptidase 2, tumor necrosis factor, and rho-associated coiled-coil containing protein kinase 2 were identified as the key molecular transducers associated with increased Apiotrichum in arterial stiffness. Our study uncovers a strong association between disruption in gut fungi and the progression of elevated arterial stiffness, and highlights the potential of targeting the gut mycobiome for improving vascular health.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42482635 is a review article
Common in hypertensive patients, hyperuricaemia is often exacerbated by guideline-recommended antihypertensive therapies such as thiazide diuretics. Losartan is known as an angiotensin II receptor type 1 antagonist with a uricosuric effect, but the magnitude of its efficacy in lowering urate has not been quantified versus a placebo-reference. We sought to quantify the urate-lowering effect of losartan versus placebo using two complementary approaches. We first conducted a meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials (RCTs) to quantify the effect of losartan on serum urate levels versus placebo. We then applied a target trial emulation framework in the UK Biobank as a secondary source of data and a replication experiment. The meta-analysis of six prospective randomised controlled trials (RCTs), including 1119 losartan-treated patients and 1093 controls, demonstrated that losartan reduced serum urate levels by approximately 0.29 mg/dL relative to placebo (95% CI: -0.46 to -0.12, p = 0.0009). In the target trial emulation, 23 losartan-treated individuals showed a reduction in serum urate of approximately 0.35 mg/dL (95% CI: -0.66 to -0.03, p = 0.03) when compared with 92 matched controls, and after accounting for 12 potential confounders including established urate-lowering therapies. Our results provide evidence for a modest yet consistent urate-lowering potential of losartan. This modest biochemical effect (~0.3 mg/dL) may be an attractive option to mitigate the diuretic-induced urate elevation. Thus, losartan can be considered as a favourable antihypertensive choice for patients managed with diuretics or those who are at risk of hyperuricaemia/gout.© 2026. The Author(s).
Objective To investigate the early transcriptomic characteristics of neutrophils and monocytes stimulated by the major surface protein 2 (MSP2) of anaplasma phagocytophilum(AP), to preliminarily explore their functional differences and potential common pro-inflammatory mechanisms of these two cell types in the inflammatory response, and to provide a theoretical basis for understanding the inflammatory pathogenesis of Human Granulocytic Anaplasmosis (HGA) and for developing anti-inflammatory strategies. Methods HL60 cells (rHL60) differentiated with dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) for 8 days were used as a neutrophil-like cell model, and human acute monocytic leukemia (THP-1) cells were used as a monocyte model. Both cells were stimulated with recombinant MSP2 (rMSP2) for 2 hours. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified by transcriptome sequencing, and their biological functions and related signaling pathways were analyzed via Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment. The mRNA expression levels of key DEGs were validated by real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR), and the concentrations of cytokines in cell supernatants were measured by ELISA. Results Transcriptome analysis showed that in rHL60 cells, DEGs were mainly enriched in inflammation. qPCR confirmed the up-regulation of C-C motif chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7) and oxidized low-density lipoprotein receptor 1 (OLR1), while CD1D molecule and C-X-C motif chemokine receptors 1/2 (CXCR1/2) were down-regulated. In THP-1 cells, DEGs were primarily enriched in transcriptional regulation. qPCR validated the up-regulation of nuclear factor kappa B inhibitor zeta (NFKBIZ) and nuclear receptor subfamily 4 group A member 3 (NR4A3), whereas thioredoxin-interacting protein (TXNIP) and interleukin-16 (IL-16) were down-regulated. ELISA results demonstrated that both cell types significantly secreted C-C motif chemokine ligands 3/4/20 (CCL3/4/20) following MSP2 stimulation. Conclusion In the early phase of MSP2 stimulation, neutrophils serve as the primary cells initiating the inflammatory response, whereas monocytes focus on immune regulation. The co-secretion of CCL3, CCL4, and CCL20 may represent a potential molecular mechanism by which these two innate immune cell types jointly promote inflammatory responses during AP infection.
The C-C motif chemokine receptor 1 (CCR1) plays key roles in guiding leukocyte movement during immune surveillance and inflammatory responses. Targeting CCR1 is a promising approach for treating autoimmune diseases and cancers. We previously developed monoclonal antibodies against mouse CCR1 (mCCR1) (clones C1Mab-2 and C1Mab-6) for use in flow cytometry and Western blotting. However, the specific binding sites have not yet been identified. This study examined the binding epitope of C1Mab-2 and C1Mab-6 using flow cytometry. Analysis of mCCR1 mutants with altered extracellular domains showed that C1Mab-2 and C1Mab-6 bind to the N-terminal region of mCCR1. Additionally, PA-tag substitution experiments identified the epitope as 1st Met and amino acids 2-13 of mCCR1. Further alanine (or glycine) scanning within the N-terminal region (amino acids 2-13) demonstrated that Glu2, Asp5, and Phe6 are essential for recognition by C1Mab-2, and Glu2, Ile3, and Asp5 are crucial for recognition by C1Mab-6 in flow cytometry and Western blotting. These findings contribute to the understanding of mCCR1 and C1Mab interaction.
This study aimed to evaluate the neuroprotective effects of Yukgunja-Tang (Liujunzi Decoction, YGJT) in a bilateral common carotid artery stenosis (BCAS)-induced mouse model of vascular dementia and to explore its potential as a multi-target intervention. Male C57BL/6 mice were subjected to BCAS to induce vascular dementia and were divided into sham-operated, BCAS control, YGJT 40 mL/kg, and YGJT 80 mL/kg groups. YGJT or distilled water was administered orally three times per week for six weeks, starting two weeks after surgery. Cognitive function was assessed using the Y-maze test and the novel object recognition test (NORT). Astrocytic and microglial activation were evaluated by immunofluorescence staining, and transcriptomic changes were analyzed using RNA sequencing. In the NORT, the YGJT 80 mL/kg group demonstrated a significant improvement in BCAS-induced cognitive impairment compared with the BCAS control group. Immunofluorescence analysis demonstrated a significant reduction in microglial activation in the cerebral cortex and white matter following YGJT treatment. RNA sequencing revealed that approximately 70.1% of genes dysregulated by BCAS surgery were restored toward baseline expression levels in the YGJT 80 mL/kg group. Protein-protein interaction network analysis identified several hub proteins, including plasminogen (Plg), caspase-1 (Casp1), cluster of differentiation 36 (CD36), C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 5 (Cxcr5), cluster of differentiation 14 (CD14), and cytochrome P450 family 2 subfamily C member 29 (Cyp2c29). These findings suggest that YGJT may be a multi-component intervention associated with changes in neuroinflammatory and transcriptomic patterns under chronic cerebral hypoperfusion, and may have potential relevance for the management of vascular cognitive impairment.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Intrahepatic cholangiocellular carcinoma (ICC) has poor prognosis, especially with lymph node (LN) metastasis (LNM). Lysine methyltransferase SET and MYND domain-containing 2 (SMYD2) has critical roles and is reportedly associated with poor prognosis in various cancers, but the role of SMYD2 in ICC is unclear. Here, we examined the role of SMYD2 in the progression of LNM of ICC. We immunohistochemically analyzed SMYD2 expression using resected specimens first in primary ICC and then in metastatic LNs derived from ICC. For functional analyses, we then performed cell proliferation assay following SMYD2 inhibition using two ICC cell lines such as HuCCT-1 and HuH28. To explore the detailed mechanisms of LNM, immunocytochemistry and western blotting related to epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) were first performed. Moreover, we performed clinically immunohistochemical staining of C-C motif chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7) in metastatic LNs, immunofluorescence staining and western blotting for functional analyses to evaluate the relationship between SMYD2 and CCR7. Finally, p65 of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) and phospho-p65 (Ser536) status were checked as the regulator of CCR7. Protein expression levels of SMYD2 in the primary ICC lesion were not associated with any clinicopathological characteristics or prognosis. However, SMYD2 was expressed in metastatic LNs of all cases and LNM was strongly associated with poor disease-free and overall survival also as previously reported. This study therefore aimed to clarify the molecular-biological roles for LNM by SMYD2. SMYD2 knockdown significantly inhibited ICC cell proliferation. According to subsequent EMT-related research, SMYD2 knockdown did not induce morphological changes or cadherin switching. Next, chemotaxis assay revealed that SMYD2 knockdown reduced chemotaxis in HuCCT-1 from metastatic ascites but not in HuH28 from the primary lesion. CCR7 expression in metastatic LNs was immunologically confirmed in all cases and had a positive correlation with SMYD2 expression. Decreased expression of CCR7 was observed in SMYD2-suppressed HuCCT-1 cells by immunofluorescence staining and western blotting simultaneously with the decreasing phosphorylation of p65S536. SMYD2 could be demonstrated to express in all metastatic LNs derived from ICC and may regulate this metastatic mechanism through CCR7-dependent chemotaxis rather than EMT via the SMYD2-phospho-p65S536-CCR7 pathway.© 2026. The Author(s).
A hallmark of pancreatic cancer is an extensive fibroinflammatory stroma. Myeloid cells, including abundant macrophages, are a prevalent cellular component of the pancreatic cancer microenvironment and a key driver of immunosuppression. Identifying mechanisms of myeloid cell-driven immunosuppression is thus key to developing therapeutic approaches. Harnessing single-cell RNA sequencing data from human and murine tumors, we determined that tumor-infiltrating myeloid cells (including macrophages and granulocytes) have elevated expression of C-C motif chemokine receptor 1 (CCR1). To determine the functional role of CCR1, we generated oncogenic KRAS-based genetically engineered mouse models of pancreatic cancer, with or without the addition of a mutant form of the tumor suppressor Trp53 (KC and KPC, respectively), lacking CCR1 expression. CCR1 inactivation did not affect the formation of early lesions but delayed progression to cancer and resulted in prolonged survival. In these mice, macrophages lacking CCR1 had reduced expression of the immunosuppressive marker arginase 1. Loss of CCR1 also profoundly shifted the prevalent fibroblast population, inducing a pancreatic stellate cell-like phenotype. In two independent syngeneic orthotopic models, ablation or pharmacologic inhibition of CCR1 reduced tumor growth and increased CD8+ T-cell cytotoxic activity, sensitizing tumors to immunotherapy. Our data show that CCR1-expressing myeloid cells promote pancreatic cancer growth through modulation of the immune microenvironment and fibroblasts, indicating that CCR1 might be a suitable target for combination therapy.©2026 The Authors; Published by the American Association for Cancer Research.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a highly chemoresistant and immunoresistant tumor with an overall five-year survival rate of less than 10 %. Current treatments for PDAC are rather limited, highlighting the importance of finding novel strategies. In this study, we investigated a strategy for the tumor-specific targeting of PAPTP, a small molecule that reduces PDAC growth by inhibiting the mitochondrial potassium channel mtKv1.3, thereby inducing mitochondrial dysfunction and killing cancer cells. PAPTP was reversibly conjugated to three tumor-penetrating peptides: iRGD, VH434, and a short version of minigastrin (CCK2p). These recognize neuropilin-1 and integrin (iRGD), the low-density lipoprotein receptor (VH434), and the gastrin/cholecystokinin B receptor (CCK2p). In vivo pharmacokinetic studies revealed that the PAPTP-bound iRGD peptide underwent rapid metabolic cleavage, which prevented optimal uptake of the construct into PDAC. The VH434 conjugate was highly hemolytic. However, CCK2p-PAPTP exhibited preferential distribution to the pancreas in animals bearing orthotopic PDAC. Efficacy studies revealed a reduction in mean tumor volume of up to 65 % in two independent orthotopic mouse models, with no tumor evident in some of the animals treated with the CCK2p-bound PAPTP construct. Our data suggest that tumor-specific targeting of small molecules may be a promising strategy for precision medicine against PDAC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41580100 is a review article
BACKGROUND: Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is an aggressive malignancy with limited therapeutic options in part due to a dense stroma and the ability of the tumor cells to defy therapy by creating an immunosuppressive milieu. A histologic feature of PDAC is the abundance of immunosuppressive M2-polarized tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) that favor cancer growth and metastases. Cancer cells communicate with immune cells of the tumor microenvironment (TME) by several mechanisms including exosomes to induce plasticity of the immune cells favoring pro-cancer instead of anti-cancer phenotypes. We examined a novel strategy to interrupt the cross-communication between cancer and immune cells by reprogramming the TME with a cholecystokinin-B receptor (CCK-BR) antagonist, proglumide. METHODS: Cross-communication was examined using 3-dimensional human PDAC spheroids that were either co-cultured with macrophages or treated with supernatant spent media from macrophages. RNA was extracted from the spheroids and subjected to RNA sequencing and Reverse Phase Protein Array (RPPA). RNA sequencing revealed that the most upregulated gene in the cancer cells after co-culture was ELANE, which codes for neutrophil elastase. Next, ELANE expression was down regulated by shRNA transfection in PDAC cells and the effect of the decreased expression was examined on the polarization of immune cells in vitro and in vivo in mice. Exosomes were also collected from PDAC spheroids for evaluation by RPPA. RESULTS: Co-culture of spheroids with macrophages increased cancer cell number and induced polarization of M0 macrophages to the M2-phenotype. Co-culture increased oncogenic pathways and genes by RPPA and RNA sequencing, respectively, and these changes were reversed with proglumide. ELANE knockdown in PDAC cells prevented the M2-polarization of macrophages in vitro and decreased tumor growth in vivo. Immunohistochemistry of ELANE knockdown tumors showed a shift in plasticity from M2-polarized TAMs to M1-polarized cells compared to wild-type tumors. Neutrophil elastase in cancer exosomes increased after co-culture and was abolished by treatment with proglumide. CONCLUSION: ELANE expression in PDAC cells regulates polarization of macrophages through the release of neutrophil-elastase rich exosomes. Proglumide therapy with CCK-B receptor antagonism is a novel method to interrupt cross-communication pathways between PDAC and immune cells in the TME and decrease cancer growth.
This study employed primary uterine epithelial cells from Sansui ducks (Anas platyrhynchos) at the peak of lay as an in vitro model. Using shRNA-mediated interference, we generated single knockdowns of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 1 (IP3R1), inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 2 (IP3R2), and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 3 (IP3R3), as well as dual knockdowns of IP3R1+IP3R2, IP3R1+IP3R3, and IP3R2+IP3R3, and a triple knockdown targeting all three IP3R isoforms. These treatments were designed to elucidate the regulatory effects of IP3R expression on intracellular calcium ion (Ca²⁺) concentrations and the expression of genes related to ion transport. After 48 h of transfection, fluorescence labeling with the Fluo-3/AM probe showed that intracellular Ca²⁺ concentrations were significantly higher in all treatment groups compared with the control group (P < 0.01). The real-time qPCR (RT-qPCR) analysis of ten ion transport-related genes revealed that the expression of transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 6 (TRPV6), ORAI calcium release-activated calcium modulator 1 (ORAI1), epithelial sodium channel gamma subunit (SCNN1G), solute carrier family 8 member A1 (SLC8A1), ATPase plasma membrane Ca²⁺-transporting 1 (ATP2B1), and ATPase sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic reticulum Ca²⁺-transporting 2 (ATP2A2) was significantly downregulated in multiple IP3R knockdown groups compared with the NC group (P < 0.05). The expression levels of these genes also showed significant correlations with intracellular Ca²⁺ levels (P < 0.05), including both positive and negative correlations. In the IP3R1 knockdown group, TRPV6, ORAI1, and SCNN1G were negatively correlated with Ca²⁺ concentration (P < 0.05). In contrast, ATP2B1 exhibited a positive correlation with Ca²⁺ in the IP3R2 knockdown group (P < 0.01), whereas SLC8A1 expression was positively correlated with Ca²⁺ in the IP3R1 + IP3R3 dual knockdowns group (P < 0.05). Collectively, the knockdown of IP3Rs not only reduced intracellular calcium ion (Ca²⁺) release but also altered the expression of ion channel-related genes, thereby affecting Ca²⁺ homeostasis. These findings provide new molecular evidence for the regulatory role of IP₃Rs in ion transport networks and Ca²⁺ balance in uterine epithelial cells of laying ducks.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The C-C motif chemokine receptor 1 (CCR1) is widely expressed in various immune cells and plays crucial roles in the maturation and migration of immune cells. CCR1 has been considered an attractive drug target for treating autoimmune diseases and tumors. An anti-mouse CCR1 (mCCR1) monoclonal antibody (clone S15040E) has been used in various in vivo studies to identify mCCR1-positive cells by flow cytometry. However, the binding epitope has not been determined. This study investigated the binding epitope of S15040E using flow cytometry. The mCCR1 extracellular domain-substituted mutant analysis showed that S15040E recognizes the extracellular loop 2 (ECL2, aa 172-197) of mCCR1. Next, alanine (or glycine) scanning was conducted in the ECL2 region. The results revealed that Trp176, Phe178, and Arg181 are essential amino acids for the recognition by S15040E. These results showed the involvement of the ECL2 of mCCR1 in the recognition by S15040E.© 2025 The Authors.
The synthetic phenotype of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) accelerates the progression of atherosclerosis (AS) and plaque erosion (PE). EP4 enhances pro-inflammatory macrophages within plaques and impedes cholesterol efflux. However, evidence for EP4 regulating VSMC phenotypic switching remains weak. This study aims to elucidate the function of EP4 in the phenotypic transformation of VSMCs and its potential molecular mechanisms.After treatment with EP4 agonist PGE1 Alcohol at varying concentrations (0, 1, 5, 10, and 20 µM), changes in VSMC phenotype and markers (Myh11/SMemb, Acta2/α-SMA, Has1, Has2, and Has3) were assessed using CCK-8, wound healing, RT-qPCR, and Western blotting assays. Key differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in AS-related datasets (GSE207414, GSE260610, and GSE270260) were identified using bioinformatics to screen for EP4-associated molecular mechanisms.PGE1 Alcohol effectively enhanced the viability and migratory capacity of VSMCs, while upregulating Myh11/SMemb and Has2 and downregulating Acta2/α-SMA. A total of 683, 1542, and 943 DEGs were identified in the GSE207414, GSE260610, and GSE270260 datasets, respectively. The three datasets possessed 209 shared DEGs, which primarily mediated inflammation, cell adhesion, immunity, lipid metabolism, and fluid shear stress. The EP4-encoded gene Ptger4 has 127 transcription factors, with two overlapping genes, Spi1 and Sp1, among the 209 shared DEGs. Sp1 and Ptger4 exhibited pronounced positive expression correlations across three datasets. ChIP-PCR revealed that SP1 regulates Ptger4 transcription at three sites within the promoter region, including CCCCGCCCCC, CCCCGCCTCC, and CCCCGCCCTC.Our findings provide preliminary evidence that transcriptionally regulates Ptger4 to upregulate EP4, potentially enhancing the synthetic phenotype of VSMCs. This exploratory study suggests a possible role for the SP1-Ptger4/EP4 axis in PE pathogenesis, meriting further validation as a therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42193132 is a review article
Cholesterol metabolism is critical in cancer biology, yet its role in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains poorly understood. We investigated the expression and prognostic significance of cholesterol homeostasis genes in HCC to identify potential biomarkers for risk stratification. Using data from The Cancer Genome Atlas, we identified differentially expressed cholesterol-related genes (logFC ≥ 1.5, false discovery rate < 0.05), intersecting them with genes annotated in the Molecular Signatures Database. Prognostic biomarkers were evaluated using univariate and multivariate Cox regression. A predictive model was constructed to assess survival outcomes. Cholesterol homeostasis genes, particularly fatty acid-binding protein 5 (FABP5) and alcohol dehydrogenase 4 (ADH4), are key prognostic biomarkers in HCC. The proposed model provides a novel approach for predicting outcomes and may inform therapeutic strategies. Further studies are needed to validate these findings and explore their clinical utility. Nine cholesterol homeostasis genes were differentially expressed, including 6 upregulated (choline kinase alpha, FABP5, fatty acid synthase, farnesyl diphosphate synthase, mevalonate diphosphate decarboxylase, and squalene epoxidase) and 3 downregulated (ADH4, activating transcription factor 5, and arginine vasopressin receptor 1A). FABP5 and ADH4 emerged as independent prognostic factors: high FABP5 expression was associated with poor prognosis, while high ADH4 expression predicted improved survival. A prognostic model integrating FABP5 and ADH4 and clinical characteristics achieved a concordance index of 0.683, effectively stratifying patients into high-risk and low-risk groups (χ2 = 20.60, P < .001) with median survival times of 1135 and 2532 days, respectively.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) plays a critical role in regulating uterine endometrial function and supporting embryonic development during early pregnancy in ruminants. However, its precise roles in shaping the uterine microenvironment remain unclear. Herein, 1 mg PGE2 was infused daily into the uterus of dairy heifers from days 12 to 14 of the estrus cycle. ULF was subsequently collected for integrated proteomic, metabolomic, and targeted lipidomic analyses. In addition, bovine endometrial epithelial cells were used to evaluate the effects of PGE2 on epithelial adhesion and responsiveness to interferon tau (IFNT). PGE2 infusion resulted in 909 differentially abundant proteins (DAPs), which are primarily associated with early embryonic development, immune regulation, and cell adhesion. Untargeted metabolomics analysis identified 587 altered metabolites, which were enriched in sphingolipid, arachidonic acid, phenylalanine, and tryptophan metabolism. Proteomic-metabolomic analyses showed that these alterations were primarily associated with early embryonic development, immune regulation, and cell adhesion. Targeted lipidomic analysis showed a global reduction in lipid accumulation, with glycerophospholipid metabolism and choline metabolism most significantly affected. In vitro, PGE2 reduced epithelial microvilli density, increased osteopontin (OPN) expression, and decreased the expression of junctional proteins (zona occludens-1 (ZO-1), E-cadherin (CDH1), and fibronectin 1 (FN1)). Moreover, PGE2 enhanced the responsiveness of bEECs to IFNT by interferon alpha/beta receptor 1 (IFNAR1) and IFNAR2, and prostaglandin E receptor 4 (PTGER4) was identified as the primary receptor mediating this response. Collectively, these findings suggest that PGE2 may modulate lipid metabolism and adhesion-related processes in the endometrium and influence endometrial responsiveness to IFNT, providing insights into molecular mechanisms associated with pregnancy establishment in dairy cows.
Metabolic reprogramming within the tumor microenvironment impairs antitumor immunity and compromises the efficacy of immunotherapy. Through multi-omics-based metabolic subtyping in intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (iCCA), we identified a subgroup with the worst prognosis that demonstrates significant enrichment in both Cyclooxygenase/Arachidonic acid (COX/AA) metabolism and KRAS mutations. Mechanistically, KRAS mutation-mediated NF-κB pathway activation upregulates CXCL5 expression, thereby recruiting CXCR2+ polymorphonuclear myeloid-derived suppressor cells (PMN-MDSCs) into the tumor microenvironment. Concurrently, KRAS mutation drives prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) production in tumor cells, and PGE2 in turn enhances arachidonic acid uptake and COX-2 expression in PMN-MDSCs, establishing an amplifying loop between tumor cells and PMN-MDSCs that exacerbates PGE2 production. PGE2 accumulation potently suppresses the antitumor activity of CD8+ T cells via prostaglandin E receptor 4 (EP4). Therapeutic targeting of the COX-2-PGE2-EP4 axis, combined with anti-PD-1 immunotherapy, demonstrates profound synergistic efficacy in both KRAS-mutant murine models and patient-derived tumor fragments harboring KRAS mutations.
We reported previously that many chemokine receptors can form heteromeric complexes with α1B-adrenoceptor (α1B-AR) and arginine vasopressin receptor 1 A (AVPR1A). To gain initial insight into the relative proportions of receptors that may participate in the formation of such heteromers, we performed molecular Boolean (MolBoolean) analyses of receptor-receptor interactions in an expression system and in primary human aortic vascular smooth muscle cells (hVSMCs), utilizing chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 1, α1B-adrenoceptor and AVPR1A as representative receptor partners. In HEK293T cells co-expressing all three receptors, 60-70 % of each recombinant receptor were located proximal enough to permit heteromerization with the other two receptor partners. In primary human vascular smooth muscle cells, 30-50 % of each receptor were located proximal enough to permit heteromerization with the other two receptor partners. The MolBoolean analyses of receptor-receptor interactions provides new insights into the spatial distribution of GPCRs in the plasma membrane. Our finding that large proportions of the receptor partners may be able to participate in heteromerization supports the concept that such hetero-oligomeric complexes composed of CCR1, α1B-AR and AVPR1A could be of physiological relevance.© 2025 The Authors.
Understanding the molecular basis of ligand recognition at α1A-adrenoceptor (α1A-AR) is essential for developing highly selective therapeutic agents. In this study, we applied a quantum biochemistry approach combining density functional theory (DFT) with the molecular fractionation with conjugate caps (MFCC) method to perform a detailed energetic characterization of the interactions between α1A-AR and three ligands with distinct pharmacological profiles: the endogenous nonselective agonist noradrenaline, the partial and selective α1A-AR agonist oxymetazoline, and the selective α1A-AR antagonist tamsulosin. Our calculations of total binding energy accurately reproduced the experimental relative affinity ranking (tamsulosin > oxymetazoline > noradrenaline), supporting the reliability of the MFCC-DFT protocol in modeling receptor-ligand interactions at quantum resolution. A total of 81, 88, and 93 amino acid residues of α1A-AR interacted with noradrenaline, oxymetazoline, and tamsulosin, respectively. The most energetically relevant residues were located within 4 Å. A comprehensive residue-level analysis revealed that ASP106, VAL107, PHE288, and PHE312 are key contributors to the total binding energy of all ligands, corroborating evidence from structural and mutagenesis studies. Specifically for oxymetazoline, this ligand contains a tert-butyl group that establishes nonpolar interactions with residues such as VAL185 and ALA189, which are not observed in the noradrenaline-α1A-AR complex. Additionally, unlike noradrenaline, oxymetazoline exhibits an attractive interaction with MET292 and does not engage in polar interactions with SER188. These differential interaction patterns may contribute to the distinct pharmacological profile of oxymetazoline relative to noradrenaline. Tamsulosin also exhibited a distinct interaction profile compared to agonists noradrenaline and oxymetazoline, interacting with residues located in the extracellular vestibule, including SER83, PHE86, GLU87, TRP102, CYS176, and LYS309. These additional interactions play a pivotal role in stabilizing tamsulosin within the binding pocket, contributing to its high selectivity and antagonistic behavior at the α1A-AR. Altogether, these findings provide a robust theoretical framework for understanding the molecular determinants of functional selectivity and subtype specificity at α1A-AR, offering valuable insights for the rational design of new ligands with improved selectivity, efficacy, and safety profiles.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
The prostaglandin E receptor 1 (PTGER1) is a G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) located on chromosome 9. It encodes prostaglandin E2 receptor 1 (EP1), a 42kDa prostaglandin receptor involved in mediating many physiological and pathological responses to prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), including inflammation, pain perception, and modulation of cell proliferation. We performed a pan-cancer, multi-omics analysis of PTGER1 to evaluate its diagnostic, prognostic, and immunological relevance across human cancers.We used multiple public cancer bioinformatics platforms including the Tumor Immune Estimation Resource (TIMER), Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis (GEPIA), and the University of ALabama at Birmingham CANcer Data Analysis Portal (UALCAN), Kaplan-Meier (KM-Plotter), CbioPortal and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) to evaluate PTGER1 expression, methylation, immune infiltration, genetic alteration and survival across tumor types.PTGER1 revealed significant (P < 0.05) expression in four cancer types; it was downregulated in kidney chromophobe (KICH) and kidney renal cell carcinoma (KIRC), uterine corpus endometrial cancer (UCEC), and upregulated in liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC). Moreover, a significant hypermethylation of normal cells was noted in bladder carcinoma (BLCA), KIRC, and lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). A significant hypermethylation of tumor cells in UCEC and kidney renal papillary (KIRP), and head and neck squamous carcinoma (HNSC) was noted. Interestingly, KICH showed staged methylation. PTGER1 demonstrated a statistically significant (P < 0.05), weakly positive correlation with immune cell populations, including CD8⁺ T cells, CD4⁺ T cells, dendritic cells, B cells, neutrophils, and macrophages in KIRC, KICH, and LIHC. Subsequently, prognostic analysis indicated that elevated PTGER1 expression was associated with poorer outcomes in KIRC and lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) across three databases and improved prognosis in LIHC. From a genomic perspective, across a variety of cancers, PTGER1 was altered in approximately <2% (160 samples out of 10960 samples) primarily through gene amplification.Analysis and cross-referencing across three publicly available databases revealed that PTGER1 is promising as a diagnostic biomarker in KICH and KIRC and a poor prognostic biomarker in KIRC and LUSC.Copyright © 2025, Suliman et al.
Arginine vasopressin (AVP) and oxytocin (OT) are peptide hormones critical for various physiological processes. Vasopressin receptor 1 A (V1aR), a primary AVP target, is promising for central nervous system (CNS) disorders therapies, yet the mechanisms of antagonism and oligomerization remain poorly understood. Here, we present structures of human V1aR in its apo state and in complexes with antagonists: atosiban, balovaptan, and SRX246. Structural analyses reveal a dimeric V1aR assembly, validated by functional assays and imaging in cells. The apo structure shows a flat extracellular loop 2 (ECL2) with unpaired cysteines, undergoing significant conformational changes upon ligand binding. Antagonist-bound structures, combined with mutagenesis and radioligand binding assays, uncover distinct binding modes and key determinants for antagonism and selectivity. These findings provide a comprehensive understanding of V1aR assembly and dynamic regulation, offering valuable insights for structure-guided development of new antagonists targeting dimeric V1aR for CNS disorders.© 2026. The Author(s).
Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) has been implicated in multiple biological processes during pregnancy in ruminants. However, the regulatory effects of PGE2 on endometrial function during the diestrus period and its underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. Herein, PGE2 treatment promoted the accumulation of lipid droplets and induced cytoskeletal reorganization in bEECs. As a well-established inducer of lipid droplet formation, oleic acid (OA) treatment significantly increased the number of lipid droplets in bEECs, altered the distribution of F-actin and disrupted the expression patterns of key adhesion-related proteins. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that the PPAR signaling pathway was the key pathway that responded to PGE2 treatment in bEECs, and its downstream target gene FABP3 was markedly up-regulated. Knockdown of FABP3 led to a reduced number of BTC spheroids and down-regulation of adhesion-related proteins in bEECs while increasing the density of microvilli and up-regulating the expression of epithelial markers. Prostaglandin E receptor 4 (PTGER4) was the primary receptor that responded to PGE2 treatment, and PTGER4 knockdown or pharmacological inhibition with GW-627368 suppressed FABP3 expression in bEECs. Moreover, uterine samples from dairy cows at different stages of the estrous cycle showed that FABP3 expression was significantly elevated in the endometrium tissue during mid-diestrus compared to metestrus, with predominant localization in the luminal and superficial glandular epithelium. Collectively, these findings indicate that FABP3 regulates lipid droplet accumulation and adhesion ability in bEECs via the PGE2/PTGER4/PPAR signaling axis, providing new insights into the metabolic regulation of endometrial receptivity in ruminants.
Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) remain the leading cause of mortality worldwide, with exercise emerging as a potential non-pharmacological strategy to reduce adverse outcomes. Prior studies examining macrophage responses to exercise primarily focused on recruited C-C motif chemokine receptor 2 (CCR2+) monocytes and macrophages in blood, adipose tissue, and skeletal muscle, but the physiological role of macrophages within the heart remains poorly defined.To determine the role of CCR2+ macrophages in exercise-induced cardiac remodeling in both male and female mice.We validated a voluntary exercise wheel-running model with diphtheria toxin mediated depletion of CCR2+ macrophages. Cardiac remodeling was assessed using morphometric indices, echocardiography, and tissue analysis.Echocardiography revealed voluntary exercise increased left ventricle (LV) mass and wall thickness while preserving cardiac function compared to sedentary conditions. Exercise increased morphometric heart, LV, and right ventricle (RV) mass as well as Fulton index. Cardiomyocyte cross-sectional area was also increased in both the LV and RV of voluntary exercise mice. Cardiac remodeling occurred in both sexes, with sex-specific differences in the LV. Immunofluorescence quantification of interstitial CD68+ cardiac macrophages revealed increased CCR2+ macrophages and increased CCR2+ to CCR2- macrophage ratios in both LV and RV of voluntary exercise mice. Notably, depletion of CCR2+ macrophages prevented exercise-induced cardiac hypertrophy in echocardiography, morphometric, and cardiomyocyte cross-sectional area measures. CCR2+ depletion also decreased cardiomyocyte stiffness, regardless of condition, while no changes in fibrosis were observed.Together, these findings identify CCR2+ macrophages as required for exercise-induced cardiac remodeling and provide new insight into immune-cardiac interactions underlying adaptation to exercise.Copyright © 2026 Bonnici, Cobb, Burns, Daigle, Sticco-Ivins, Hardy, Lang, Dun, Nelson, Peña, Gu and Kopecky.
Normal follicular development forms the foundation for female reproductive performance, a process critically supported by angiogenesis. However, vascular endothelial zinc finger 1 (VEZF1), a key transcription factor regulating angiogenesis, was unexpectedly found to negatively regulate the survival of porcine ovarian granulosa cells (GCs) in our previous study. This study aimed to further explore whether and how VEZF1 regulates porcine GC growth. Using cell cycle analysis, cell proliferation assays, and RNA-seq analysis, we found that VEZF1 expression was significantly downregulated during follicular development (p < 0.01). Overexpression of VEZF1 arrested the cell cycle at the G0/G1 phase, reduced the proportion of S-phase cells, and inhibited cell proliferation (p < 0.05), whereas knockdown of VEZF1 exerted the opposite effects. Overexpression of VEZF1 downregulated Cytochrome P450 family 19 subfamily A member 1 (CYP19A1), but upregulated Cytochrome P450 family 11 subfamily A member 1 (CYP11A1) and Steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (STAR) protein expression, accompanied by increased progesterone levels. Mechanistically, VEZF1 activated the cAMP/PKA signaling pathway through upregulating luteinizing hormone/choriogonadotropin receptor (LHCGR) and adenylate cyclase 8 (ADCY8). In summary, this study demonstrated that VEZF1 acts as a negative regulator of GC proliferation, and its overexpression induces premature luteinization of GCs accompanied by the loss of proliferative activity. These findings establish VEZF1 as a key regulator of follicular development and lay the foundation for further exploring the application of VEZF1 in regulating reproductive performance in sows.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) have a poor prognosis and few effective treatments. The highly immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment and multifaceted immune escape mechanisms in HCC profoundly restrict the clinical efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors. Phosphoglycerate kinase 1 (PGK1) is established as an oncogenic driver in malignant tumor progression. However, its role in modulating tumor immunity remains elusive. This study found that HCC cell-intrinsic PGK1 contributed to tumor progression through inhibiting CD8+ T cell-mediated antitumor immunity. Then, in vivo and in vitro results demonstrated that tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) function as critical mediators in PGK1-driven immunosuppression. Furthermore, PGK1 promoted the recruitment and M2 polarization of TAMs through upregulation of C-C motif chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2) expression. Blockade of CCL2 significantly attenuated PGK1-induced infiltration of C-C motif chemokine receptor 2 (CCR2)+ TAMs and inhibited M2 polarization, while reversing the impaired infiltration and function of CD8+ T cells. This work further demonstrated that PGK1 enhanced CCL2 secretion through activating the AKT/GSK3β/β-catenin pathway in HCC cells. In vivo experiments revealed that the combination of PGK1 inhibitor and immunotherapy elicited potent antitumor efficacy. Taken together, this study highlighted PGK1 as a pivotal regulator of tumor immunobiology and provided novel insights into combination immunotherapy for HCC.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Hypertension-associated kidney injury is strongly shaped by the ability of the kidney to buffer systemic pressure at the afferent arteriole. Feng et al. identify C-C motif chemokine ligand 2 as a direct regulator of kidney microvascular smooth muscle contractility in Dahl salt-sensitive rats. Loss of C-C motif chemokine ligand 2 preserves Notch3-Mylk (myosin light-chain kinase) signaling, maintains myogenic tone, protects autoregulation, and prevents kidney injury. These findings position the C-C motif chemokine ligand 2/C-C motif chemokine receptor 2 axis as a mechanistic bridge between inflammatory signaling and hypertensive nephropathy.Copyright © 2026 International Society of Nephrology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42146949 is a review article
Persistent neurohormonal activation drives maladaptive remodeling and disease progression in heart failure (HF). Sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors confer robust renoprotective effects in HF, but whether these effects involve modulation of renal neurohormonal activity remains unclear. We tested the hypothesis that SGLT2 inhibitor-mediated renoprotection in HF is associated with attenuation of excessive renal neurohormonal activation. Male rats with myocardial infarction-induced HF and sham controls were treated with standard chow or empagliflozin (EMPA, 300 mg/kg) for 4 wk. Parallel in vitro studies using THP-1 macrophages (a human acute monocytic leukemia cell line) and HK-2 proximal tubule cells evaluated the direct effects of EMPA and/or norepinephrine (NE)-dependent tubular inflammatory signaling. HF was associated with higher renal cortical renin expression and angiotensin II levels, which were not modified by EMPA. In contrast, EMPA normalized the elevated urinary norepinephrine (NE) excretion and renal cortical NE content observed in HF. Given the inflammatory role of sympathetic hyperactivity, we assessed renal macrophage activation. EMPA-treated HF rats showed reduced expression of proinflammatory markers [tumor necrosis factor (Tnf), C-C motif chemokine receptor 2 (Ccr2), nitric oxide synthase 2 (Nos2), and Interleukin-6 (Il-6)] and increased expression of markers associated with a reparative macrophage profile [Arginase 1 (Arg1), Mannose receptor C-type 1 (Mrc1), and CD163 (Cd63)], supported by higher CD206+ macrophages in kidney sections. Although EMPA did not directly alter THP-1 macrophage activation, it significantly reduced NE-induced SGLT2 expression and interleukin-6 (IL-6) release by HK-2 human proximal tubule epithelial cells. These findings support a model in which SGLT2 inhibitors confer renoprotection in HF by suppressing renal sympathetic hyperactivity, independently of the intrarenal renin-angiotensin system, thereby disrupting a maladaptive renal neuro-epithelial-immune axis and promoting a reparative macrophage phenotype.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Our findings identify a renal neuro-epithelial-immune axis that may, at least in part, underlie empagliflozin-mediated renoprotection in heart failure. Empagliflozin selectively attenuated surrogate markers of renal sympathetic activity, lowering cortical and urinary norepinephrine without detectable changes in intrarenal renin-angiotensin system components. These changes were accompanied by a shift toward a reparative macrophage phenotype. In vitro, empagliflozin blocked norepinephrine-induced SGLT2 upregulation and IL-6 production, linking sympathetic signaling to tubular inflammation.
Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have revolutionized cancer treatment, yet tumor progression remains a challenge, necessitating improved patient stratification and therapeutic strategies. Tumor growth releases neoantigens that activate adaptive immunity, promoting tertiary lymphoid structure (TLS) formation through B- and T-cell interactions. T follicular helper (Tfh) cells are key in coordinating B-cell responses and are linked to favorable outcomes. A newer subset, T peripheral helper (Tph) cells, shares functional traits with Tfh cells but differs in transcriptional and migratory profiles. Though observed in various cancers, their distribution and role in tumor immunity are not fully understood.To investigate this, a multiplex cyclic immunofluorescence assay was developed to detect and spatially analyze Tph cells in tumors.This revealed three CXCL13-expressing CD4+ T-cell subsets: Tfh, Tph, and a 'C-C motif chemokine receptor 2 (CCR2)- Tph-like' population which, in contrast to the classically CCR2-enriched Tph phenotype described in inflamed tissues, shows markedly reduced CCR2 expression. Downregulation of CXCR5 and CCR2 near CCR2- Tph-like cells suggested a shift toward local immune residency, forming immune niches. These niches were enriched with pro-inflammatory cells, including Th1, Th17, CD4+, CD8+ T cells, and B cells. Spatial profiling showed CCR2- Tph-like cells embedded in an immunoregulatory network, marked by CD69 and inhibitory checkpoints B7-H3 and PD-L1 on surrounding cells.This dual signaling suggests CCR2- Tph-like cells may modulate tumor immunity by balancing activation and suppression, with potential implications for checkpoint blockade therapy.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British Society of Immunology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41927345 is a review article
Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists are transforming cardiometabolic care, yet their expanding use in older adults raises an overlooked question: can cardiovascular and renal protection come at the expense of muscle mass, nutritional resilience, and independence? We propose a geriatric-informed prescribing framework that redefines treatment success beyond weight loss.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is associated with a higher risk of sepsis and poorer clinical outcomes compared to the general population. While GLP-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RA) may confer protective effects against sepsis beyond their metabolic benefits in patients with diabetes, their effect in CKD patients remains unclear. This study aims to evaluate the association between GLP-1RA therapy and infectious outcomes in patients with CKD.Using the TriNetX database, we conducted a retrospective cohort study of adults with CKD and type 2 diabetes mellitus initiating GLP-1RAs or dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors (DPP-4i) between January 2020 and May 2026. The primary outcome was sepsis. Secondary outcomes included all-cause mortality, septic shock, pneumonia, urinary tract infection, and COVID-19.After propensity score matching, 21 035 patients were included in each treatment group. Use of GLP-1RA was associated with a lower risk of sepsis compared with DPP-4i (HR = 0.72; 95% CI, 0.66-0.78). GLP-1RA use was also associated with lower risks of all-cause mortality (HR = 0.65; 95% CI, 0.61-0.70), pneumonia (HR = 0.81; 95% CI, 0.75-0.87), urinary tract infection (HR = 0.83; 95% CI, 0.79-0.88), and COVID-19 (HR = 0.84; 95% CI, 0.77-0.90). The risk of septic shock did not reach Bonferroni-corrected significance level despite being numerically lower (HR = 0.84; 95% CI, 0.73-0.96; P = 0.014).In patients with CKD and type 2 diabetes mellitus, use of GLP-1RA is associated with lower risks of sepsis, all-cause mortality, pneumonia, urinary tract infection, and COVID-19 compared with DPP-4i, while the risk of septic shock was similar between groups.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the ERA. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site-for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is increasingly recognized as a central component of cardiovascular-kidney-metabolic (CKM) syndrome, reflecting shared pathways of insulin resistance, inflammation, and fibrotic injury that drive multi-organ disease. Affecting more than one-third of adults worldwide, MASLD frequently coexists with chronic kidney disease (CKD) and cardiovascular disease (CVD) and is associated with higher risks of kidney function decline, cardiovascular events, and mortality. Hepatic steatosis and fibrosis may amplify systemic metabolic stress and endothelial dysfunction, contributing to progressive kidney injury and adverse cardiometabolic outcomes. Despite this biologic and epidemiologic overlap, MASLD remains underrecognized in nephrology and cardiology practice. This gap represents a missed opportunity to identify patients at high risk of multi-organ complications early. Noninvasive liver fibrosis assessment, integrated with kidney and cardiovascular risk stratification, offers a practical approach to identifying patients who may benefit from intensified preventive strategies. Lifestyle modification remains foundational, while emerging pharmacotherapies, including glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists, sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors, mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists, and liver-directed agents, demonstrate potential cross-organ benefits. Coordinated management targeting metabolic dysfunction may slow the progression of kidney disease while improving hepatic and cardiovascular outcomes. This review highlights the clinical intersection of MASLD, CKD, and CVD and proposes a multidisciplinary framework for screening and management. Recognizing MASLD as part of systemic CKM disease can inform risk stratification, guide therapy selection, and support earlier intervention to mitigate the triple burden of liver, kidney, and cardiovascular complications.Copyright © 2026 by the American Society of Nephrology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565898 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564827 is a review article
Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs), used to treat type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and obesity, have shown multi-organ benefits. However, their effects on bone are uncertain. GLP-1RAs may favor skeletal health through improved metabolic control, but substantial weight loss may increase bone loss and fracture risk. Understanding this balance between benefit and risk is an important clinical priority.This mini-review summarizes the current evidence on the effects of GLP-1RAs on bone health and skeletal metabolism in individuals with type 2 diabetes and obesity, as informed by a literature search using the PubMed and Embase databases.Preclinical data generally support a beneficial role for GLP-1 signaling in bone, with evidence for enhanced osteoblast activity, reduced bone resorption, and improved bone mass and strength. In people with T2DM, GLP-1RAs appear neutral to modestly beneficial for BMD and bone remodeling. In those without T2DM, greater weight loss is more consistently associated with declines in BMD and increases in bone turnover. However, clinical studies to date have had relatively short follow-up and limited focus on skeletal endpoints. Additionally, newer agents associated with greater weight loss are underrepresented in the data.Current evidence suggests that GLP-1RAs may directly benefit bone health, but these benefits may be offset by weight-loss-related skeletal risks, particularly in nondiabetic and high-risk individuals. Additional research is needed to define their true impact on bone depending on clinical context. These findings will guide strategies that preserve skeletal health while maintaining GLP-1 RAs' metabolic benefits.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com. See the journal About page for additional terms.
Managing obesity in patients with epilepsy is complicated by the weight-gaining properties of essential antiseizure medications (ASMs) such as valproate and pregabalin. We evaluated the safety and efficacy of initiating glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1 RAs) in this population.We conducted a retrospective cohort study using the NIH All of Us Research Program database, identifying adults with comorbid epilepsy, type 2 diabetes, and obesity. New initiators of GLP-1 RAs were compared with matched controls using 1:1 propensity score matching that included baseline weight-gaining ASM use. The primary safety outcome was a composite of seizure-related hospitalization or new ASM addition. Secondary efficacy endpoints (weight and HbA1c change at 12 months) were stratified by concomitant weight-gaining ASM use.The propensity-matched cohort included 610 patients with well-balanced baseline characteristics. GLP-1 RA initiation was not associated with failure to control seizure compared with standard care (hazard ratio 0.92, 95% CI 0.68-1.23; p = 0.57); given the observed events, the study could detect a hazard ratio of 1.53 or greater. GLP-1 RA users achieved a mean adjusted weight loss of -5.73% (p = 0.001) and an HbA1c reduction of -0.71% (p = 0.018). Significant weight reduction was achieved even among patients concomitantly treated with weight-gaining ASMs (adjusted difference -4.15%, p = 0.003).GLP-1 RAs showed no evidence of seizure worsening and remained effective for weight loss even among patients receiving weight-gaining ASMs, supporting their use for metabolic benefit in patients with epilepsy.© 2026 The Author(s). Annals of Clinical and Translational Neurology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Neurological Association.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs) have rapidly expanded beyond the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and obesity, with increasing relevance to dermatologic practice as more patients present while receiving these therapies. This medication class now includes oral formulations including oral semaglutide and the first non-peptide oral GLP-1RA, orforglipron as well as next-generation triple agonists such as retatrutide, which demonstrated up to 24.2% body weight reduction in phase 2 trials and a favorable body composition profile, with preferential fat over lean mass loss. Although GLP-1 RAs provide substantial metabolic and weight reduction benefits, their growing use has introduced a broad spectrum of systemic and cutaneous adverse effects that dermatologists must recognize and monitor. This review summarizes the current evidence regarding the safety profile of GLP-1RAs with emphasis on dermatologic implications and interdisciplinary monitoring considerations. Common adverse effects include gastrointestinal (GI) intolerance, nutritional deficiencies, gallbladder disease, pancreatitis, and loss of lean body mass. Other rarer potential side effects include anemia, neuropsychiatric, and sexual health effects. Emerging data also suggest associations with ophthalmologic complications, skeletal fragility in older adults, and alterations in body composition that may influence cosmetic and procedural outcomes. Dermatologic adverse events include alopecia, eczematous and hypersensitivity eruptions, bullous and pustular dermatoses, acneiform eruptions, hyperhidrosis, and significant facial volume loss ("Ozempic face"). Current evidence regarding GLP-1RA use in pregnancy remains limited and evolving, with recommendations generally advising discontinuation prior to conception. Given the increasing overlap between metabolic disease management and dermatologic care, dermatologists should understand contraindications, screening strategies, nutritional monitoring, and counseling considerations associated with GLP-1RA therapy. A multidisciplinary approach involving primary care physicians, endocrinologists, ophthalmologists, dietitians, and dermatologists is essential to optimize patient safety while maintaining the substantial therapeutic benefits of these medications.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
We studied the safety and effectiveness of glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP1-RAs) and sodium-glucose co-transporter-2 inhibitors (SGLT2is) in liver transplant recipients with diabetes.This retrospective single-center study included 41 patients treated with GLP1-RAs and/or SGLT2is after liver transplantation (LT) who were compared to a control group receiving antidiabetic treatment excluding GLP1-RAs and/ SGLT2is.The treatment group showed no serious adverse events, with 15.0% experiencing moderate side effects, primarily gastrointestinal disorders. The HbA1c target concentration was achieved in 90.0% (n=36) of patients in the GLP1-RA and/or SGLT2i group versus 74.0% (n = 42) in the control-group (p = 0.16). The fasting glycaemia target was reached by a higher proportion of patients in the GLP1-RA and/or SGLT2i group than in the control-group: 80.0% versus 55.0%, p = 0.033. Insulin withdrawal was greater in the group of patients receiving GLP1-RAs and/or SGLT2is treatment, in particular for those with post-transplant diabetes (80.0% vs. 0%, p < 0.01). The median time of follow-up was 11.0 months (IQR: 6-13).Our results suggest the safety of GLP1-RAs and SGLT2is treatment, with the remarkable benefit of insulin withdrawal for a subgroup of patients with new-onset diabetes. However, larger prospective studies are needed to assess the long-term impact on cardiovascular events, obesity, liver steatosis, and mortality.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
The functional significance of RNA modifications, specifically N7-methylguanosine (m7G), in inflammatory conditions such as psoriasis remains not fully elucidated. This study demonstrates that methyltransferase-like 1 (METTL1), an m7G methyltransferase, is significantly upregulated in epidermal keratinocytes of human psoriatic lesions and imiquimod (IMQ)-induced murine models. Utilizing mice with an inducible keratinocyte-specific Mettl1 deletion (Mettl1fl/flKrt14-CreERT2), the research reveals significantly attenuated psoriasiform inflammation and decreased neutrophil infiltration relative to Mettl1fl/fl counterparts. Mechanistically, METTL1 drives inflammation by augmenting Bdkrb1 mRNA stability through m7G modification. This stabilization leads to elevated bradykinin receptor B1 (BDKRB1) protein expression, which activates the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway in keratinocytes, promoting the secretion of key proinflammatory C-X-C motif chemokine ligand (CXCL) chemokines and robust neutrophil chemotaxis. Crucially, both in vivo genetic BDKRB1 overexpression and pharmacological BDKRB1 activation successfully rescue the attenuated inflammatory phenotype in Mettl1-deficient mice, firmly validating this specific signaling cascade. Conversely, pharmacological inhibition of the METTL1-BDKRB1 axis effectively mitigates psoriasiform inflammation. Collectively, these data establish that METTL1 modulates psoriasis by fostering p38-dependent chemokine production and neutrophil recruitment, identifying the METTL1-BDKRB1 axis as a novel therapeutic target.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
The gastric cancer (GC) tumor microenvironment (TME) constitutes a complex and dynamic ecosystem in which immune, stromal, and malignant cells (MCs) collectively shape therapeutic responses. The dynamics of GC TME remodeling in different treatment contexts remain unclear. We performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) of GC biopsy specimens from treatment-naïve patients (TN) and patients treated with chemotherapy (C), chemotherapy plus nivolumab (CN), or chemotherapy plus trastuzumab (CT), and found that CN treatment enhanced natural killer (NK)/T cell-associated immunogenicity in GC TMEs. In CN TMEs, MCs upregulate MHC-I- and inflammation-related genes. Conventional type 1 dendritic cells (cDC1), one subcluster of dendritic cells (DCs), concurrently exhibited activation of antigen-presentation and T cell-stimulatory programs, indicating intensified communication between NK/CD8+ T cells and cDC1 in the CN TMEs. The cell-cell interaction analyses uncovered an intensified X-C Motif Chemokine Ligand 1 (XCL1) - X-C motif chemokine receptor 1 (XCR1) chemotactic axis linking NK/CD8+ T cells and cDC1, highlighting the formation of "the MCs-cDC1-NK/CD8+ T cells circuit" to reinforce antitumor immunity in the CN TMEs. Furthermore, a reduced cytotoxic NK sub-cluster, which showed high XCL1 expression, was enriched among CN responders, and its transcriptional signature was significantly correlated with favorable survival in the Cancer Genome Atlas GC cohort. Our findings delineate an immunostimulatory circuit driven by NK/CD8+ T-DCs-MCs interactions to orchestrate the immune cycle under CN therapy in GC TMEs.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
To observe the synergistic analgesia and intestinal motility antagonism of electroacupuncture (EA) combined with morphine, and explore the mechanism of the "effect-enhancing and toxicity-reducing" of the combined therapy with acupuncture and medication.Sixty SPF-grade male C57BL/6J mice were randomly divided into a blank group, a model group, a sham-EA+normal saline (NS) group, a morphine+sham-EA group, an EA+NS group, and a morphine+EA group, with 10 mice in each group. Except in the blank group, the mice in the other groups were prepared to be inflammatory pain models induced by complete Freund's adjuvant. After successful modeling, the interventions were administered with EA, morphine, or morphine+EA, respectively. EA was delivered at "Zusanli" (ST36) bilaterally, with continuous wave, at a frequency of 2 Hz and a current of 2 mA, for 30 min, once daily and for 7 consecutive days. Intragastric administration with diluted morphine hydrochloride solution (24 mg/kg) was operated, twice daily and for 7 consecutive days. Sham-EA was obtained by no access to needle puncture and electric stimulation. The thermal pain threshold was measured using the hot plate method from day 0 to day 8. Intestinal motility was evaluated by time to first passage of melena, 2-hour fecal output and small intestinal transit rate. Immunofluorescence was used to detect the positive expression of μ-opioid receptor (MOR) and 5-hydroxytryptamine 1A receptor (5-HT1AR) in the hypothalamus, and that of MOR and purinergic receptor P2Y1 (P2Y1R) in the small intestine. ELISA was employed to measure the contents of β-endorphin (β-EP) and serotonin (5-HT) in the hypothalamus, and those of β-EP and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) in the small intestine.Compared with the blank group, the thermal pain threshold of mice decreased (P<0.05), the positive expression of MOR and 5-HT1AR and the content of 5-HT in the hypothalamus were reduced (P<0.05), the contents of β-EP in the hypothalamus and small intestine increased (P<0.05) in the model group. When compared with the model group, in the morphine+sham-EA group, the thermal pain threshold increased (P<0.05), the time to first passage of melena was prolonged (P<0.05), and the 2-hour fecal output and small intestinal transit rate decreased (P<0.05), and the positive expression of MOR in the hypothalamus and small intestine increased (P<0.05), while the positive expression of P2Y1R and the content of ATP in the small intestine decreased (P<0.05); in the EA+NS group, the thermal pain threshold was higher (P<0.05), the positive expression of MOR and 5-HT1AR in the hypothalamus and that of P2Y1R in the small intestine increased (P<0.05), and the contents of β-EP and 5-HT in the hypothalamus, and the content of ATP in the small intestine were elevated (P<0.05), the positive expression of MOR and the content of β-EP in the small intestine were reduced (P<0.05); in the morphine+EA group, the thermal pain threshold was higher (P<0.05), the time to first passage of melena was prolonged (P<0.05), the 2-hour fecal output and small intestinal transit rate were declined (P<0.05), and the positive expression of MOR and 5-HT1AR and the contents of β-EP and 5-HT in the hypothalamus increased (P<0.05), while the content of β-EP in the small intestine decreased (P<0.05). In comparison with the morphine+sham-EA group, the morphine+EA group showed the decrease in the time to first passage of melena (P<0.05), the increase in the 2-hour fecal output and small intestinal transit rate (P<0.05), and the increase in the positive expression of MOR and 5-HT1AR and the contents of β-EP and 5-HT in the hypothalamus (P<0.05), the decrease in the positive expression of MOR and the content of β-EP in the small intestine (P<0.05), and the increase in the positive expression of P2Y1R and the content of ATP in the small intestine (P<0.05). Compared with the EA+NS group, the morphine+EA group demonstrated the increase in the time to first passage of melena (P<0.05), the decrease in the 2-hour fecal output (P<0.05), and the increase in the positive expression of MOR in the hypothalamus and the small intestine and the content of β-EP in the hypothalamus (P<0.05), and the decrease in the positive expression of P2Y1R and the content of ATP in the small intestine (P<0.05). MOR and P2Y1R were co-located and the positive expression of them in the small intestine showed a significant negative correlation (r=-0.868, P<0.000 1).Electroacupuncture combined with morphine exerts synergistic analgesia by agonizing MOR and 5-HT1AR in the brain, and improves intestinal motility by inhibiting MOR and agonizing P2Y1R in the intestine, demonstrating the characteristic of "effect-enhancing and toxicity-reducing" in the combined therapy with acupuncture and medication.
Ovarian cancer is characterized by high mortality, extensive genomic instability driven by copy number alterations, and a highly immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. Increasing evidence suggests that chronic inflammation and stromal-immune interactions contribute to tumor progression and therapeutic resistance. Bradykinin receptor B1 (BDKRB1), an inflammation-inducible G protein-coupled receptor, has been implicated in tumor-associated inflammatory signaling; however, its genomic determinants and immunological relevance in ovarian cancer remain poorly defined.We performed an integrative multiomics analysis of BDKRB1 using TCGA-OV and multiple independent GEO cohorts. The analytical framework incorporated bulk transcriptomics, copy number variation profiling, single-cell RNA sequencing, immune cell deconvolution, pathway enrichment analysis (GSEA, GSVA, and PROGENy), and pharmacogenomic modeling. Patients were dichotomized into BDKRB1-high and BDKRB1-low groups using cohort-specific median expression to ensure cross-dataset consistency. Associations with genomic instability, TME features, and drug response patterns were systematically evaluated. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was further performed to validate BDKRB1 expression in ovarian cancer cell lines.BDKRB1 was consistently overexpressed in ovarian cancer and associated with unfavorable clinical outcomes across multiple cohorts. Elevated BDKRB1 expression correlated with increased genomic instability, reflected by higher fractions of the genome altered, gained, and lost. Although copy number variation partially explained BDKRB1 upregulation, the modest correlation suggested additional regulatory mechanisms. Tumors with high BDKRB1 expression exhibited immunosuppressive microenvironmental features, including enrichment of cancer-associated fibroblasts and reduced estimated CD8+ T-cell infiltration, despite concurrent activation of inflammatory signaling pathways. Single-cell transcriptomic analysis further identified fibroblasts as a major cellular source of BDKRB1 expression. Functional analyses indicated associations between BDKRB1 and inflammatory signaling, metabolic pathways, and oncogenic programs. Pharmacogenomic analyses suggested distinct drug sensitivity patterns in BDKRB1-high tumors and identified fasudil as a potential candidate compound for reversing BDKRB1-associated transcriptional signatures.This integrative analysis identifies BDKRB1 as a microenvironment-associated marker linking genomic instability with inflammatory and immunosuppressive tumor ecosystems in ovarian cancer. Although the findings are primarily associative, they provide a systems-level perspective on immune evasion mechanisms and highlight BDKRB1 as a potential biomarker for TME characterization and therapeutic hypothesis generation.Copyright © 2026 Dali Pu et al. International Journal of Genomics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41750307 is a review article
Neuropeptides like galanin are increasingly recognized as modulators of cognitive pathways. Galanin has been implicated in a wide range of pathological conditions in which frontal and temporal structures are compromised. Recently, we discovered that direct pharmacological stimulation of galanin receptor type 1 (GalR1) in the ventral prefrontal cortex (vPFC) and ventral hippocampus (vHC) caused opposing effects on attention and impulse control behaviors. In the present study, we investigate how neurons expressing GalR1 in these two areas differentially contribute to these behaviors. First, using multiplex fluorescent in situ-hybridization, we established that GalR1 is predominantly expressed in glutamatergic neurons in both the vPFC and vHC. Rats were assessed in their visuospatial attention and impulse control behaviors using the 5-Choice task. We developed a novel viral approach to gain genetic access to GalR1-expressing neurons in the vPFC and vHC and found that optogenetic excitation of GalR1 expressing neurons in the vPFC, but not vHC, selectively disrupted attention. Finally, using fiber photometry, we measured bulk calcium dynamics in GalR1-expressing neurons and discovered that GalR1- expressing neurons in the vPFC and vHC showed opposing activity; increased activity in neurons in the vPFC corresponded to correct, attentive actions, whereas activity in the vHC was associated with errors. This region- and response-specific intrinsic activity of galanin, mediated by subclasses of neurons in frontotemporal circuitry participates in shaping the expression of executive-control behaviors that often go awry in various disorders of mental health.© 2026. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the US; foreign copyright protection may apply.
Galanin-expressing neurons in the ventrolateral preoptic area (VLPOgalanin) are active during sleep and play an important role in regulating non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep. It is generally believed that VLPOgalanin neurons promote sleep via inhibitory actions in arousal-promoting regions of the brain. Histaminergic neurons are a population of wake-active neurons that receive strong projections from the sleep-active VLPOgalanin neurons. However, the ability of galanin to influence the activity of histaminergic neurons has received limited attention. Here, using whole-cell patch-clamp electrophysiological recordings from genetically identified histaminergic neurons in male mice, we explore the mechanisms by which galanin influences histaminergic neuron electrical excitability. Our results reveal that galanin is a powerful inhibitor of histaminergic neuron activity and demonstrate that the inhibitory effects of galanin are mediated by galanin receptor 1 (GALR1) and the subsequent opening of G-protein-coupled inwardly rectifying (GIRK) and large conductance calcium-activated potassium (BK) channels. Furthermore, we identify that histaminergic neurons highly express Galr1 mRNA and show that the GALR1-mediated hyperpolarization of histaminergic neurons is largely independent of action potential-dependent synaptic transmission or fast excitatory or inhibitory neurotransmitters. Together, these results suggest that direct postsynaptic activation of GALR1 expressed on histaminergic neurons mediates the inhibitory effects of galanin on these neurons. This data also supports the notion that the sleep-promoting effects of VLPOgalanin neuron activation may occur via the ability of galanin to inhibit the arousal-promoting histaminergic neurons.Copyright © 2026 Khouma et al.
Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-inducing signals trigger the accumulation of extracellular matrix, thereby contributing to organ pathology, including idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). Transcription factor AP-2 alpha (TFAP2A) has been reported to facilitate the EMT process, but its function in IPF remain unknown. A mouse IPF model was established via single intratracheal instillation of bleomycin (BLM). Adenovirus carrying shRNA specifically targeting TFAP2A was administered 24 h prior to BLM challenge to achieve TFAP2A silencing. For in vitro studies, human bronchial epithelial cells (BEAS-2B) underwent lentivirus infection for 48 h to achieve TFAP2A silencing, followed by BLM treatment. We found that the expression of TFAP2A at both mRNA and protein levels was significantly upregulated in fibrotic lung tissue. TFAP2A knockdown alleviated BLM-induced lung injury and fibrosis, as evidenced by reduced collagen deposition and decreased expression of the fibrotic biomarkers α-SMA and Collagen I. Furthermore, TFAP2A silencing inhibited BLM-induced EMT in in the lungs of fibrotic mice, characterized by the upregulation of epithelial markers (Cytokeratin-8 and E-cadherin) and downregulation of mesenchymal markers (Fibronectin, Vimentin, and N-cadherin). In vitro assays demonstrated that BLM exposure increased α-SMA protein expression and promoted the EMT process in BEAS-2B cells, which were reversed by TFAP2A knockdown. Interestingly, TFAP2A significantly upregulated the RNA level of bradykinin receptor B1 (BDKRB1), a fibrosis-inducing factor. Mechanistically, TFAP2A activated BDKRB1 transcription by binding to the promoter of BDKRB1. Overexpression of BDKRB1 abrogated the protective effects of TFAP2A knockdown against lung fibrosis. Overall, our findings demonstrate that TFAP2A drives EMT progression and promotes IPF development by transcriptionally activating BDKRB1, identifying the TFAP2A/BDKRB1 axis as a potential therapeutic target in IPF.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Peptide-based therapeutics such as tirzepatide and semaglutide target the neuroendocrine system to remediate both diabetes and obesity. In addition to integrating the complementary actions of two endogenous metabolically related hormones targeting glucagon-like peptide-1 and glucagon receptors (GLP-1R and GCGR), the synergistic targeting of a third G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), namely the gastric inhibitory polypeptide receptor (GIPR), may achieve optimal control of blood glucose levels and weight loss in patients with diabetes and obesity. In this work, we harness the predictive power of sequence-derived in silico mutagenesis to rationally design effective single-molecule peptides with triple-receptor-agonist activities. We model the binding profiles of our designed peptides to the GIP, GLP-1 and GCG receptor triad through multiple, long, repeat molecular simulations and effective binding enthalpy calculations to assess their predicted multi-receptor engagement profiles. Our data predict a balanced, highly favourable effective binding enthalpy profile of our newly designed peptides for the three receptors compared to endogenous peptides and the experimental reference peptides, with high targeted specificity for the receptors. The peptides are further engineered to structurally support metabolic stability by substituting sites prone to proteolytic cleavage. The predicted triple-hormone-receptor agonist peptide mechanism opens new avenues for the synthesis and activity testing of multi-targeting peptides with improved stability, offering a computational design strategy for testing the potential reduction of adverse gastrointestinal effects of peptide therapeutics and support future development of lower-dose oral formulations.© 2026. The Author(s).
Dermatomyositis (DM) and antisynthetase syndrome (ASS) are heterogeneous subsets of idiopathic inflammatory myopathies with persistent unmet needs in disease activity assessment and stratification. Although CD4+ T cells are recognized as important contributors to disease pathogenesis, the role of CD4+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) remains insufficiently defined.Peripheral blood samples were collected from patients with DM (n = 50), patients with ASS (n = 14), and healthy donors (HDs, n = 20). The frequency of CD4+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes with expression of cytotoxic protein granzyme B (GZMB+CD4+ CTLs) was analyzed by flow cytometry to quantify GZMB+CD4+ CTLs and characterize their phenotype. Disease activity and severity were evaluated using standard clinical indices. Multiplex immunohistochemistry was performed on skin biopsy specimens from patients with DM (n = 4) to assess tissue infiltration and endothelial injury.The proportion of circulating GZMB+CD4+ CTLs was significantly increased in both DM and ASS compared with HDs. In patients, this population showed phenotypic features consistent with enhanced cytotoxicity and tissue trafficking, including increased fibroblast growth factor binding protein 2 (FGFBP2) expression and reduced circulating fractions of cells positive for C-X3-C motif chemokine receptor 1 (CX3CR1) and C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 3 (CXCR3). GZMB+CD4+ CTL frequency was positively associated with global disease activity and cutaneous activity, and decreased after treatment independently of specific drug regimens. Receiver operating characteristic analysis showed that circulating GZMB+CD4+ CTLs effectively distinguished active from remitting disease in both DM and ASS. In DM skin lesions, GZMB+CD4+ CTLs were abundant and were accompanied by increased endothelial apoptosis and enhanced HLA-DR expression.Peripheral GZMB+CD4+ CTLs are expanded in DM and ASS and are closely associated with disease activity. Their accumulation in lesional tissue and association with endothelial injury support a potential pathogenic role, while their diagnostic performance suggests that they may serve as a biomarker and potential therapeutic target in these diseases.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Chi, Shi, Wan, Chang, Jiang, Wang, Han, Chen and Gong.
Enhancers are abundant and critical gene-distal cis-regulatory elements with distinct architectural features; however, a mechanistic understanding of their interactions within endogenous chromatin contexts remains challenging. Here, we developed a recombinase-mediated genome-rewriting platform to explore how a long-range human enhancer, eNMU, confers a remarkable 10,000-fold activation of its target gene, Neuromedin U (NMU), at its native locus. Our systematic dissection reveals two functionally distinct sub-elements of eNMU: the canonical autonomous enhancer e1 and the intrinsically inactive facilitator e2, which dramatically augments e1's activity. The autonomous enhancer e1 is functionally hierarchical to e2, additional facilitators, and the NMU promoter across the ∼100-kb NMU-eNMU region, and it orchestrates the formation of a 3D regulatory hub. e1 also harbors a bipartite structure: a divergently transcribed retroviral long terminal repeat (LTR) enhancer and an adjacent LTR promoter that dampens NMU expression. We explore and discuss the broader implications of our focused study for understanding enhancer regulatory mechanisms genome-wide.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Neuromedin U (NMU) is a neuropeptide broadly expressed in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract and central nervous system (CNS), implicated in energy balance and glucose homeostasis. Recent studies have suggested that NMU may act as a "decretin" hormone by inhibiting glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS); however, in vivo findings remain inconclusive. This study evaluated plasma NMU responses during an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) and regional intestinal NMU expression in a monosodium glutamate (MSG)‑induced hypothalamic obesity (MHO) model in rats.Thirty male Wistar rats were divided into control and MHO groups. MHO was induced by subcutaneous MSG injections during the neonatal period. After five months, metabolic parameters, oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT), plasma NMU levels, and NMU mRNA expression in the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum were analyzed using ELISA and RT-qPCR.The MHO group exhibited elevated fasting glucose, decreased basal insulin levels, and increased abdominal adiposity compared to controls, indicating a metabolically obese phenotype in this model. Basal plasma NMU levels were similar between groups. At 60 minutes post-glucose load, plasma NMU decreased significantly relative to baseline in both groups, with no difference between MHO and control rats. Intestinal NMU expression followed a proximal-to-distal declining pattern, consistent with previous reports, and did not differ between MHO and control rats.These findings suggest that NMU expression within the gastrointestinal tract remains regionally regulated and unaltered in experimental obesity. Furthermore, the significant decline in plasma NMU at 60 minutes is compatible with modulation during hyperglycemia but does not establish a causal role in glucose regulation. This pattern appears to be preserved in the MHO model despite metabolic dysfunction. Future studies employing receptor inhibition or NMU administration are warranted to elucidate its physiological role in insulin regulation.
Excessive intake of saturated fats triggers inflammation in the hypothalamus, a key regulator of energy balance. In the chronic phase of this inflammatory response, bone marrow-derived and lymphoid cells are chemoattracted to this region, partially mitigating high-fat diet (HFD)-induced metabolic impairments. In rodents, the onset and magnitude of this inflammation differ between males and females, reflecting sex-specific patterns of metabolic regulation. However, how the hypothalamic chemokine profile evolves during HFD-induced inflammation, and whether it is influenced by biological sex, remains unclear. Here, male and female C57BL/6J mice were fed a HFD for 1, 3, 14, or 28 days. To isolate the role of ovarian hormones in modulating hypothalamic chemokine profile, we also analyzed ovariectomized (OVX) females with or without estrogen replacement. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction-based expression analysis revealed that most chemokines and their receptors were transiently modulated in the hypothalamus during the course of the HFD exposure, showing reduced levels in the acute phase and normalization during the chronic phase. Despite the modest sex-dependent effects observed, messenger RNA expression of the chemokine receptor C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 3 (CXCR3) was significantly higher in females than in males after 14 and 28 days of HFD, suggesting faster recruitment of CXCR3+ immune cells that may contribute to female protection against metabolic dysfunction. Females lacking ovarian hormone production displayed increased hypothalamic expression of Cxcr3 and Ccl2. Only Cxcr3 expression was partially normalized by estradiol treatment, suggesting that non-estrogenic ovarian factors may play a role in modulating specific chemokine signaling pathways. Together, our findings show that hypothalamic chemokine signaling is dynamically and transiently regulated throughout the phases of HFD-induced inflammation, with Cxcr3 modulation by HFD and ovarian hormones contributing to sex-specific resilience against metabolic inflammation.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Neuroendocrinology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Society for Neuroendocrinology.
Distinct microbial environments exert diverse effects on the physiology and survival of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. Here, we show that C. elegans grown on two Escherichia coli strains exhibit different survival dynamics. Wild-type C. elegans on the B type OP50 exhibit more early deaths compared to C. elegans on K-12 type CS180. These early deaths on OP50 are characterized by swollen pharynges (P-deaths) due to bacterial accumulation within the tissue. In contrast, animals on CS180 are more resistant to P-deaths. These bacteria-dependent differences in P-deaths depend on bacterial lipopolysaccharide structures and the activities of the C. elegans neuropeptide neuromedin U receptor NMUR-1, which reduces P-deaths on OP50, but not on CS180. Surprisingly, however, NMUR-1 promotes the opposite response when the insulin receptor DAF-2 has reduced function-where NMUR-1 now stimulates P-deaths on OP50, but again with no effect on CS180. We also find that NMUR-1 acts in sensory neurons to promote its bi-directional effects on longevity, which depend on the FOXO transcription factor DAF-16. In addition, NMUR-1 downregulates the expression of the insulin-like peptide daf-28, but only when DAF-2 function is not reduced. This suggests a regulatory mechanism through which NMUR-1 maintains insulin receptor DAF-2 signaling at a suitable level. Thus, our studies reveal that NMUR-1 serves to buffer the dynamic range of DAF-2 receptor signaling, thereby optimizing pharyngeal health and survival in response to specific bacteria.Copyright: © 2026 Sifoglu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42247765 is a review article
Glucose homeostasis is vital for energy metabolism, and its dysregulation is central to metabolic diseases. To enhance the stability of the endogenous peptide neuronostatin (NST), we designed a conformationally stabilized cyclic NST peptide via disulfide-bridge cyclization. This study demonstrates that cyclic NST serves as a potent agonist for the G protein-coupled receptor 107 (GPR107), and promotes protein kinase activation. Intraperitoneal administration of cyclic NST induced sustained hyperglycemia, which was more effectively than linear NST, it also suppressed insulin and modulating leptin levels in zebrafish and mice. It differentially regulated glycolytic enzymes in pancreas and liver, and stimulated pancreatic α-cells to promote hepatic glucose production. Centrally, cyclic NST reduced food intake by activating the arcuate nucleus and the ventromedial hypothalamus. Notably, it upregulates the expression of key neuropeptides and receptors involved in appetite regulation, including the orexigenic peptides agouti-related protein (AgRP) and neuropeptide Y (NPY), as well as the anorexigenic peptide somatostatin, and the receptors gastric inhibitory polypeptide receptor (GIPR) and glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R). Mechanistically, cyclic NST enhanced mitochondrial energy metabolism in a manner associated with phosphorylation-dependent Golgi retention of GPR107, with Tyr315 identified as a critical site for maintaining mitochondrial protein expression and regulating reactive oxygen species. Collectively, these findings establish the cyclic NST-GPR107 axis as a key regulator of glucose homeostasis and appetite, suggesting a novel therapeutic target for metabolic disorders.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Neuromedin U (NMU) is a neuropeptide that was first identified in porcine spinal cord and exhibits diverse biological activities. It serves as an endogenous ligand for the human Neuromedin U receptor 2 (NMUR2), which is expressed exclusively in the hypothalamus. Because NMUR2 is involved in the regulation of appetite suppression and energy metabolism, it is considered a promising target for obesity treatment. CPN is a medium-sized peptide with selective agonistic activity against NMUR2. In this study, we evaluated the effect of peptide stability on brain delivery and the pharmacological effects after intranasal administration of two CPNs (CPN-116 and CPN-219) with different in vitro stabilities. The results of in vitro stability studies showed that both CPNs were more stable in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) than in the plasma and that the stability of CPN-219 in the serum, CSF, brain, and nasal cavity was better than that of CPN-116. For both CPNs, brain concentrations were higher in the nasal administration group than in the intraperitoneal administration group, and weight gain was also suppressed in the nasal administration group compared to the control group. Furthermore, both brain delivery and suppression of weight gain after nasal administration of CPN-219, which has good in vitro stability, were superior to those of CPN-116. It is evident that the stability of the peptide is an important factor for the direct delivery of peptides into the brain by intranasal administration.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42316210 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42246166 is a review article
Obesity-dysregulated periprostatic adipose tissue (PPAT) has been implicated in the aggressiveness of prostate cancer (PCa). On the other hand, obesity has been linked to environmental influences, namely, the endocrine-disrupting chemicals capable of promoting adipogenesis and fat accumulation (obesogens). However, it is unknown whether obesogens can induce PPAT dysfunction, disrupting its crosstalk with PCa cells. The present study hypothesises that obesogens can target the PPAT, affecting its secretory activity and contributing to the development or aggressiveness of PCa. Through in vivo, ex vivo approaches and conditioned medium (CM) assays, we demonstrated that exposure to tributyltin (TBT), the first described obesogen, induced a PPAT "obese" phenotype, with adipocyte enlargement and enhanced secretion of leptin and C-C motif chemokine ligand 7 (CCL7). TBT-PPAT altered prostate cell fate, enhancing their viability, proliferation and migration, and reducing apoptotic rate. Moreover, it was shown that the TBT-PPAT secretome promoted the migration of prostate cells involving the C-C motif chemokine receptor 3 (CCR3). Overall, this study demonstrated the biological significance of TBT exposure, bringing functional evidence on the contribution of PPAT obesogenic dysregulation to prostate carcinogenesis. Moreover, it highlights the differences that may exist in PCa monitoring and treatment in obese vs. lean patients, pointing out the modulation of PPAT activity as a therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Atherosclerosis is a leading cause of global morbidity and mortality. Cholesterol crystal embolism (CCE) in advanced atherosclerosis can lead to acute kidney injury (AKI) through ischemic cortical necrosis. However, a single-cell atlas of the CCE kidney remains incomplete, impeding rational therapeutic design. In a C57BL/6J mouse CCE model generated by unilateral renal artery CC injection, single-cell transcriptomics revealed widespread changes across 17 kidney cell types. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) varied markedly, with 1659 in the ascending loop of Henle and 1505 in proximal tubules, whereas only 7 were in dendritic cells. Cell-cell interaction analyses revealed a central role for C-C motif chemokine ligand (CCL)-C-C motif chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5) and macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF)-cluster of differentiation 74 (CD74) pathways in CCE formation and related outcomes, including vascular injury, AKI, and immune cell infiltration. Human kidney biopsies from patients with CCE showed CD74-positive staining near obstructed arteries with cholesterol clefts. Pharmacological inhibition of CCR5 or CD74 using maraviroc or milatuzumab, respectively, as well as their combined administration before CC injection, reduced vascular thrombosis and tissue damage without raising bleeding risk in the C57BL/6J mouse CCE model. Even when treatment was delayed by 2 hours postembolism, it still decreased complications like thrombotic angiopathy and AKI upon CCE. These findings highlight CCR5 and CD74 as potential therapeutic targets for CCE-related necroinflammation.
Background/Objectives: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by amyloid-beta accumulation and neuroinflammation, yet the molecular target of Ginsenoside Rg1 remains elusive. This study aimed to elucidate the neuroprotective mechanism of Ginsenoside Rg1, specifically investigating its interaction with C-C motif chemokine receptor 3 (CCR3). Methods: We utilized 5xFAD transgenic mice and CCR3-overexpressing BV2 microglial cells. Behavioral assessments, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, molecular docking, and surface plasmon resonance were employed to evaluate cognitive function and molecular pathways. Results: Ginsenoside Rg1 treatment significantly ameliorated spatial learning and memory deficits. Quantitatively, Rg1 reduced cortical amyloid-beta 1-40 levels (p < 0.05) and bound directly to CCR3 with a dissociation constant of 3.599 × 10-5 mol/L. This inhibition suppressed neuroinflammation and restored neurotrophic factors, including Brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Conclusions: CCR3 is a novel pharmacological target for Ginsenoside Rg1, providing a precise molecular basis for its neuroprotective effects. Future research should focus on clarifying the pharmacokinetic profile and brain bioavailability of Ginsenoside Rg1 to facilitate clinical translation.
Chronic hepatitis B (CHB) caused by the hepatitis B virus (HBV) remains a major global health burden. The immune-active (IA) phase, characterized by positive Hepatitis B surface antigens (HBsAg), elevated alanine transaminase (ALT) levels, and detectable HBV DNA, is a pivotal period in the natural history of CHB. Understanding the biological process in this phase is critical for elucidating CHB pathogenesis. With the accumulation of multi-omics data, it has become feasible to identify key molecular targets regulating the host-virus interaction during the IA phase. Identifing these targets provides a critical foundation for developing novel strategies to modulate the host immune response as an important supplement to antiviral therapy.We integrated bioinformatics and machine learning approaches with clinical sample validation to identify IA-phase-specific hub genes in peripheral monocytes from CHB patients. Combining differential expression analysis and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), we found gene modules significantly correlated with the IA phase from the transcriptomic dataset GSE230397. IA-specific hub genes were subsequently identified using machine learning algorithms. While the potential roles of the four identified hub genes were initially explored via immune infiltration analysis, the expression of the key hub gene, solute carrier family 24 member 4 (SLC24A4), in peripheral classical monocytes from CHB patients in IA phase were specifically validated by single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) datasets (GSE182159 and GSE283471) and confirmed by western blot analysis of clinical samples.The function of the key hub gene SLC24A4 was further explored through in silico knockout analysis. Structure-based virtual screening was conducted to identify potential U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved compounds targeting SLC24A4.Compared to healthy controls (HC), 36 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified as specific to the IA phase in GSE230397. WGCNA highlighted two key modules associated with IA features, from which 22 module-specific DEGs were derived. Machine learning integration pinpointed four hub genes: C-C motif chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5), interleukin 10 receptor subunit alpha (IL10RA), potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily A member 3 (KCNA3), and SLC24A4. Immune infiltration analysis of liver tissue revealed that SLC24A4 expression was positively correlated with the infiltration proportion of pro-inflammatory M1 macrophages and negatively correlated with the infiltration proportion of immunosuppressive M2 macrophages, suggesting its connection with a pro-inflammatory microenvironment. Validation in two independent scRNA-seq datasets and western blot analysis of clinical samples confirmed that SLC24A4 expression in peripheral classical monocytes was significantly higher in IA phase compared with HC. In silico knockout of SLC24A4 in classical monocytes using scTenifoldKnk showed the upregulation of genes involved in histocompatibility antigens class II (MHC class II)-mediated antigen presentation and the regulation of T cell activation. This suggested that SLC24A4 may act as a negative regulator of monocyte activation, and its high expression during the IA phase could represent a compensatory mechanism to restrain excessive inflammation. The possible binding of a FDA-approved compound Rucaparib to SLA24A4 was predicted by virtual screening.This study revealed distinct transcriptional features of the CHB IA phase and identified SLC24A4 in peripheral classical monocytes as a potential key regulator and a potential drug target for immune modulation in CHB, offering novel insights into both pathogenesis and therapeutic development.Copyright © 2026 Li, Li, Du, Fan, Xiong, Hu, Deng, Wang, Shi, Sun, Zheng and Zhang.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42049529 is a review article
The infiltration of regulatory T cells (Tregs) in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is associated with a poor prognosis. The present study aimed to explore the potential function of Treg marker genes in prognosis and immunotherapy using the transcriptome profiles of five LUAD cohorts sourced from public databases. Among them, the single-cell dataset GSE131907 was employed to identify cell types in lung cancer tissues and to identify Treg markers. The prognostic Treg markers were screened using univariate Cox and Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator regression analyses. Subsequently, a prognostic model was constructed and assessed using Kaplan-Meier and receiver operating characteristic curves. Furthermore, the effect of prognostic Treg markers on clinical characteristics, the immune microenvironment and tumor mutation burden (TMB) were evaluated. In addition, the function of genes strongly correlated with the prognostic risk score were investigated using Spearman and functional enrichment analysis. Finally, the genes expression levels were assessed using reverse transcription-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) and western blotting. By analyzing the single-cell data, 13 Treg markers [centromere protein M (CENPM), pituitary tumor-transforming gene 1 protein, interleukin 1 receptor type 2, baculoviral IAP repeat containing 3, glucocorticoid induced 1 (GLCCI1), melanoma-associated antigen H1 (MAGEH1), CD5, cytokine inducible SH2 containing protein, zinc finger protein 101 (ZNF101), Ikaros family zinc finger protein 4 (IKZF4), ankyrin repeat and SOCS box protein 2, zinc finger CCCH-type containing 12D and C-C motif chemokine receptor 6] were identified as prognostic features. The prognostic model constructed using these 13 genes revealed that the high-risk group had a poorer prognosis than the low-risk group. Moreover, it was demonstrated that the risk score could be an independent prognostic factor affecting the prognosis of patients with LUAD. Additionally, the high-risk group had a lower ESTIMATE score, higher TMB score and lower T cell receptor richness than the low-risk group. Finally, RT-qPCR and western blotting showed that the expression levels of CENPM, ZNF101, MAGEH1 and IKZF4 were significantly altered in cancer tissues compared with the adjacent normal tissues. In conclusion, a reliable prognostic model based on 13 Treg markers was developed. The comprehensive characterization of the Treg markers of LUAD may help to monitor the prognosis and provide new strategies for LUAD treatment.Copyright: © 2026 He et al.
Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) universally enhance antitumor immunity but endanger a subgroup of patients by triggering immune-related adverse events (irAEs). We profiled the expressions of 41 proteins on peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) prior the initiation of immunotherapy. CXCR3 and CCR6 expressions were significantly decreased in PBMC subpopulations from patient with irAEs but not from those who responded to PD-1 inhibitors. The expression of CCR6 in a NK cell subpopulation serves exclusively as a biomarker to differentiate patients who developed irAEs. Interestingly, circulating ligands of CXCR3, including CXCL9, CXCL10, and CXCL11, were significantly increased in patients who later developed irAEs after PD-1 inhibitor treatment. The decreases of CXCR3 in three T cell subpopulations and decreases of CCR6 in a NK cell subpopulation were further validated in two independent external cohorts. Moreover, multiple proteins in PBMCs, distinct from the irAE-predicting biomarkers, exhibited differential expression levels corresponding to the differential responses to the PD-1 inhibitors. Via multiple independent cohorts, our study revealed crucial roles of CXCR3 and CCR6 in PD-1-induced irAEs, provided potential circulating biomarkers associated with toxicity and responses of PD-1 inhibitors and further sculptured the landscape of immune cell heterogeneity via focusing on PBMC subpopulations.© 2026 The Author(s). MedComm published by Sichuan International Medical Exchange & Promotion Association (SCIMEA) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Multiple Myeloma (MM) is a complex hematological malignancy characterized by the uncontrolled proliferation of malignant plasma cells. Neutrophil Extracellular Traps (NETs) have recently been implicated in cancer, but the role in MM remains unclear. This study aimed to identify NETs-related biomarkers in MM and explore the underlying mechanisms using machine learning and experimental validation. Methods and Methods: Three MM-related microarray datasets were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus database. Differential expression and weighted gene co-- expression network analyses were applied to identify NETs-related hub genes for MM. Machine learning algorithms were used to refine the biomarkers. The core genes were validated using receiver operating characteristic analysis, nomogram construction, and an external dataset. Functional analyses were performed to explore the underlying mechanisms. Drug-gene interaction analysis was performed to predict potential therapeutic drugs. Finally, gene expression was validated by quantitative real-time PCR in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from three MM patients and three healthy controls.A total of 24 NETs-related hub genes were identified. Machine learning algorithms identified three NETs-related core biomarkers for MM: KIT proto-oncogene (KIT), Hepatocyte Growth Factor (HGF), and F2R-like trypsin receptor 1 (F2RL1). The predictive model showed good predictive performance in both the training and external cohorts. Functional analyses showed significant associations between the biomarker genes and immune-related biological processes. Additionally, potential therapeutic drugs targeting these biomarkers were identified, including diphenylpyraline, Crizotinib, 1,4-chrysenequinone, and histamine. The expression patterns of the biomarker genes were confirmed in clinical MM samples.This study combined multiple machine learning models to identify key NETs-related biomarkers for MM. Clinical validation confirmed the relevance of the biomarkers in clinical practice. These findings provide a foundation for further research into the immune microenvironment and therapeutic strategies for MM.This study successfully identified and validated NETs-related biomarkers for MM through machine learning and experimental validation. Understanding the role of NETs-related biomarkers in MM could not only deepen our understanding of the disease but also offer information for clinical applications.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Dimethyl sulfoxide can be used to promote mature hepatocyte-like differentiation in hepatocellular carcinoma cells and sustain the expression of liver-specific genes, which is considered a potential novel therapy for liver cancer treatment. However, the molecular targets of dimethyl sulfoxide, especially transcription factors, remain largely unknown. In this study, we show that dimethyl sulfoxide treatment significantly downregulates Iroquois-homeobox protein 3 in Hepatocellular carcinoma cells, illustrating that Iroquois-homeobox protein 3 might regulate Hepatocellular carcinoma proliferation positively. Further clinical data reveal that Iroquois-homeobox protein 3 expression is generally elevated in human Hepatocellular carcinoma tissues and correlates with poor patient survival. Consistent with these observations, gain- and loss-of-function studies demonstrate that Iroquois-homeobox protein 3 promotes Hepatocellular carcinoma proliferation both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, Iroquois-homeobox protein 3 binds to the promoter of F2R-like trypsin receptor 1/Protease-Activated Receptor 2, recruits RNA polymerase II and increases Serine 5 phosphorylation of its C-terminal domain (CTD), thereby upregulating F2R-like trypsin receptor 1/Protease-Activated Receptor 2 expression and driving Hepatocellular carcinoma proliferation. Collectively, our findings reveal a critical role for Iroquois-homeobox protein 3 in Hepatocellular carcinoma development and suggest that Iroquois-homeobox protein 3 might be a potential therapeutic target for Hepatocellular carcinoma.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Background: Asthma remains a global health burden, with its heterogeneity necessitating precision biomarkers and targeted therapies. Tumor necrosis factor-like ligand 1A (TL1A), a novel alarmin in the airway, remains poorly characterized in asthma pathogenesis. Methods: TL1A levels were measured in the sputum and serum samples of patients with various asthma phenotypes. Single-cell RNA sequencing of murine asthmatic lung and myeloid-cell-specific Tnfsf15-knockout mice (Tnfsf15 Mac-KO) was performed, and the effects of anti-TL1A interventions were evaluated in allergen-induced asthma models. Results: TL1A levels were significantly elevated in the serum and sputum of patients with asthma and correlated with clinical disease severity, declining lung function, and blood eosinophil counts. Single-cell RNA sequencing identified macrophages as the primary immune cells expressing TL1A in the context of allergic lung inflammation. In the Tnfsf15 Mac-KO mice, allergen-induced airway inflammation, T helper 2 cytokine secretion, and mucus hypersecretion were attenuated. Mechanistically, TL1A induced C-C motif chemokine ligand 8 (CCL8) expression via the activation of death receptor 3, thereby driving type 2 inflammation. Critically, the anti-TL1A antibody interventions suppressed T helper 2-mediated responses and reduced the number of pathogenic CD8+ T cells in a dose-dependent manner. Conclusion: TL1A serves a dual role as a biomarker and therapeutic target in asthma, as it modulates macrophage-driven pathogenesis. TL1A inhibition disrupts CCL8/C-C motif chemokine receptor 8 signaling and pathogenic T-cell responses, providing a precision medicine strategy for asthma.Copyright © 2026 Jintao Zhang et al.
Cimifugin, a primary active component of the traditional Chinese medicine Saposhnikovia divaricata (Turcz.) Schischk, is widely utilized as an anti-inflammatory remedy. Our preliminary investigations have demonstrated its efficacy in alleviating allergic asthma (AA). However, the efficacy of cimifugin against AA relapse and its underlying mechanism of action remain incompletely elucidated.The study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of cimifugin in preventing AA relapse and to elucidate its mechanism of action.In vivo experiments were performed using the HDM-induced AA relapse mouse model, and in vitro experiments were performed by isolating lymphocytes and HEK293T cells. Vercirnon, an inhibitor of C-C motif chemokine receptor 9 (CCR9), was administered in vivo to clarify the role of group 2 innate lymphoid cell (ILC2) migration between lung and small intestine at the remission phase of AA. The effect of cimifugin on the relapse of AA was evaluated in mouse model in vivo. Cimifugin was predicted to bind directly to CCR9 by molecular docking and further confirmed by MicroScale Thermophoresis (MST). Alanine scanning and MST were used to identify the key amino acid residues of cimifugin binding to CCR9. Transwell migration experiments were performed to verify the effects of cimifugin targeting CCR9 on ILC2 migration.We found that administration of​ the CCR9 inhibitor vercirnon, which inhibits ILC2 migration between the lung and small intestine​ during remission, effectively alleviated AA relapse. Correspondingly, cimifugin administration at the remission phase could also alleviate the relapse of AA and inhibit the lung-small intestine migration of ILC2s. Molecular docking and MST assays showed that cimifugin directly binds to CCR9. Moreover, ARG144 and ARG323 were identified as key amino acid residues through which cimifugin binds to CCR9 to inhibit ILC2 migration.The present study revealed that cimifugin effectively inhibited the migration of ILC2s by directly targeting CCR9 to alleviate the relapse of AA, and ARG144 and ARG323 were the key amino acid residues by which cimifugin binds to CCR9. Thus, cimifugin is a novel candidate agent for relieving the relapse of AA.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Granzyme K (GZMK) is a serine protease known for its perforin-dependent cytotoxicity. However, the non-cytotoxic role of GZMK in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) remains largely elusive.Multiomics datasets were integrated to investigate the clinical relevance of GZMK and its association with programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) in LUAD. Recombinant human GZMK (rhGzmK) was applied in tumor-CD8+ T cell co-culture systems, with its effects on PD-L1 expression and CD8+ T-cell function evaluated via flow cytometry. Key signaling proteins were analyzed by Western blotting. To evaluate the therapeutic potential of GZMK inhibition, a selective GZMK inhibitor was combined with anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (anti-PD-1) therapy in both C57BL/6 and human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (huPBMC)-reconstituted NVSG humanized mouse models. Finally, multiplex immunofluorescence analysis was conducted on paired pretreatment and post-treatment specimens from a clinical cohort of patients with LUAD receiving immunotherapy to assess the spatial dynamics of GZMK expression in response to treatment.GZMK upregulated PD-L1 expression on tumor cells and enhanced PD-L1/PD-1 binding. Furthermore, GZMK promoted CD8+ T-cell dysfunction through the induction of apoptosis, the promotion of CD8+ T-cell exhaustion and suppression of proliferation. Mechanistically, cleavage of F2R-like trypsin receptor 1 (F2RL1) by GZMK activated the AKT Serine/Threonine Kinase (AKT) /glycogen synthase kinase-3β/β-catenin and Janus kinase 2/signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (JAK2/STAT1) pathways, triggering nuclear accumulation of β-catenin and phosphorylated STAT1, which ultimately drove PD-L1 transcription. Additionally, F2RL1 signaling upregulated COPS8, stabilizing PD-L1 through inhibition of its ubiquitin-mediated degradation. In vivo, pharmacological inhibition of GZMK synergized with anti-PD-1 therapy to suppress tumor growth and enhance CD8+ T-cell infiltration and function. Clinically, high baseline GZMK expression correlated with an improved response to immunotherapy, and anti-PD-1 treatment modulated the spatial distribution of GZMK within the tumor microenvironment.In the absence of perforin, GZMK acquires an immunosuppressive function through F2RL1 activation on tumor cells, which in turn promotes the formation of an immune-suppressive niche. Accordingly, combined targeting of the GZMK/F2RL1 axis and the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway represents a promising synergistic strategy to overcome immune evasion in LUAD.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
The extensive use of antibiotics in intensive farming weakens immunity and threatens food safety. Stevia isochlorogenic acid (SICA), a kind of dicaffeoylquinic acid derived from stevia residue, exhibits strong antioxidant activity. This study evaluated the ability of SICA to improve immune function in an immunosuppressed broiler model. SICA significantly increased the spleen, thymus, and bursa of Fabricius indices (p < 0.05), alleviated spleen damage, and elevated serum interleukin-2 (IL-2), IL-4, interferon-γ, IL-1β, tumor necrosis factor-α, immunoglobulins (IgA, IgM, IgG), and complement components C3 and C4 (p < 0.05). Isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification-based proteomics indicated that SICA enhanced splenic immune function by activating cell adhesion molecules, phagosomes, and the intestinal immune network for IgA production pathways. Quantitative PCR analysis showed upregulation of mRNA and protein levels of B-cell receptor, major histocompatibility complex class II, protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type C, and neutrophil cytosolic factor 2 (p67phox) and downregulation of C-C motif chemokine receptor 9. Molecular docking demonstrated the strongest binding affinity between SICA and p67phox. Overall, SICA effectively alleviated immunosuppression in broiler chickens and represents a promising natural alternative to antibiotic feed additives.
Intratumoral T regulatory cells (Treg) promote an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment and are frequently associated with a lack of response to immunotherapy. Selective targeting of intratumoral Tregs while sparing broader Tregs and effector T-cell populations is an attractive strategy to enhance antitumor immune responses. C-C motif chemokine receptor 8 (CCR8) is a G protein-coupled receptor that is predominantly upregulated on tumor-resident Tregs in a range of human solid tumors, making it a promising target for their selective depletion. In preclinical studies using mouse tumor models, anti-mouse CCR8 antibody treatment resulted in depletion of CCR8+ intratumoral Tregs, significant antitumor activity, and enhanced survival in combination with anti-PD-1. CHS-114 is a highly selective, afucosylated human anti-CCR8 monoclonal antibody that is being developed as a cancer immunotherapy. CHS-114 selectively binds human CCR8 and potently kills CCR8 expressing cells by inducing antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity and antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis. Ex vivo studies evaluating human dissociated tumor cells demonstrated the selectivity of CHS-114 in depleting intratumoral Tregs while sparing CCR8-negative Tregs and effector T cells. Treatment of tumor-bearing human CCR8 knock-in (huCCR8KI) mice with CHS-114 resulted in significant tumor growth inhibition (62.6%) accompanied by remodeling of the tumor-immune microenvironment and enhanced differentiation of a subset of cytotoxic CD8+ T cells. Based on the promising preclinical data, we are evaluating CHS-114 in clinical trials as an investigational agent for the treatment of solid tumors with and without the anti-PD-1 antibody toripalimab (NCT05635643 and NCT06657144).©2025 The Authors; Published by the American Association for Cancer Research.
Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is an autoimmune disease marked by fibrosis and extensive autoantibody production. Although B-cell depletion with rituximab (RTX) has shown clinical benefit, predictive biomarkers of response remain elusive. Here, we apply proteome-wide autoantibody screening using wet protein arrays covering 13,455 human antigens in serum samples from participants of the randomized trial of RTX. We identify a significant elevation in the total autoantibody levels in SSc compared to healthy controls, with greater reductions post-treatment observed in RTX high responders than in low responders. A stepwise selection highlights 88 clinically relevant autoantibodies, including those targeting G protein-coupled receptors. Among them, anti-C-C motif chemokine receptor 8 (CCR8) autoantibodies are functionally validated by cell-based assays using CCR8-overexpressing HEK293 cells. Furthermore, in a bleomycin-induced mouse model, anti-CCR8 antibody administration exacerbates dermal fibrosis and modifies immune cell infiltration. Although external validation with multiple comparison adjustment is further required, these findings reveal an autoantibody signature associated with therapeutic response and pathogenic potential in SSc, providing a foundation for precision immunotherapy and mechanistic insights into disease progression.© 2025. The Author(s).
Background: Gastric cancer remains one of the most common causes of cancer death, with a notably high incidence in East Asian countries. Regulatory T cells (Tregs) suppress antitumor immunity in the tumor microenvironment, and recent studies have identified C-C motif chemokine receptor 8 (CCR8) as a selective marker for tumor-infiltrating activated Tregs. However, the role of CCR8⁺ Tregs in gastric cancer remains unclear. Methods: This study retrospectively analyzed 80 gastric cancer patients who underwent curative resection. Immunohistochemistry dual staining for CCR8/Foxp3 and granzyme B/CD8 was performed, followed by automated image analysis and spatial profiling. The correlation between CCR8⁺ Tregs and CD8⁺ T cells, as well as their prognostic significance, was evaluated. Results: CCR8⁺ Treg density positively correlated with CD8⁺ T cell infiltration. However, a low CD8⁺ T cell/CCR8⁺ Treg ratio was significantly associated with worse recurrence-free survival (P = 0.023). Reduced granzyme B expression was observed in CCR8⁺ Treg-dense hotspots, suggesting the presence of a localized immunosuppressive environment. Spatial analysis revealed that CCR8⁺ Tregs were preferentially localized at the tumor invasion front. Furthermore, distance analysis showed that fewer CD8⁺ T cells were present around CCR8⁺ Tregs than around CCR8⁻ Tregs, suggesting a localized immunosuppressive effect that may restrict CD8⁺ T cell proliferation. Conclusions: Our findings suggest that CCR8⁺ Tregs suppress antitumor immunity in gastric cancer by affecting surrounding CD8⁺ T cells through spatial segregation. Targeting CCR8⁺ Tregs may offer a promising strategy to improve the efficacy of immunotherapy in gastric cancer.© The author(s).
Chimonanthus salicifolius has traditionally been used for the treatment of gastrointestinal disorders. In this study, a systematic phytochemical investigation of this plant was conducted, leading to the isolation and identification of two previously undescribed furan glycosides, salicifoliosides A (1) and B (2). Structurally, these compounds feature a rare structural motif consisting of an α,β-unsaturated furanone aglycone esterified with a p-coumaroyl unit, a combination scarcely reported in natural products. Spectroscopic and chemical analyses established that 1 and 2 are cis-trans geometric isomers, offering a unique framework to investigate configuration-dependent properties and expanding the structural diversity of furan glycosides. To evaluate their potential relevance to functional dyspepsia (FD), we adopted a prediction‑to‑validation strategy. Network pharmacology analysis and molecular docking identified matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP2) as a potential target. In a lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated Caco‑2 cell model, compounds 1 and 2 significantly inhibited the secretion of MMP2 and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), consistent with the earlier in silico predictions. Notably, compound 1 also reduced interleukin-2 (IL-2) levels, suggesting a configuration-dependent effect. This study highlights a previously unrecognized natural product scaffold and provides initial evidence linking its structure to anti-inflammatory activity, offering new insights into structure-activity relationship studies and drug discovery.© 2026 Wiley‐VHCA AG.
Adoptive tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) therapy is an established personalized cellular immunotherapy with demonstrated activity in selected solid tumors, particularly metastatic melanoma. However, clinical outcomes, safety, and manufacturing feasibility vary across tumor types and treatment strategies. This systematic review evaluates the efficacy, safety, and operational characteristics of TIL therapy across solid malignancies.This systematic review was conducted in accordance with PRISMA guidelines. PubMed, Scopus, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, and the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform were searched from inception to 31 December 2025. Eligible studies included clinical trials and observational studies evaluating autologous TIL therapy in solid tumors. Due to substantial clinical and methodological heterogeneity, quantitative synthesis was restricted to clinically comparable cohorts, predominantly melanoma studies reporting objective response rates (ORR). A single-arm random-effects meta-analysis using the Freeman-Tukey transformation was performed. All other outcomes, including survival, safety, manufacturing success, and resection-to-infusion time, were synthesized narratively.Thirty-eight studies were included: 5 randomized controlled trials (RCTs), 22 prospective non-randomized studies, and 11 retrospective analyses, spanning melanoma and 8 other solid tumour types. Meta-analysis of 18 melanoma single-arm cohorts demonstrated a pooled objective response rate (ORR) of 42% (95% CI 37%-47%; I² = 33.1%; prediction interval 29%-56%) under a random-effects model. In the phase III RCT (Rohaan et al.), TIL therapy produced superior ORR (49% vs. 21%) and progression-free survival (median 7.2 vs. 3.1 months; HR 0.50, 95% CI 0.35-0.72) compared with ipilimumab. Subgroup analysis by TIL product type revealed a statistically significant difference (χ² = 7.25, p = 0.0266): tumor-reactive TIL products pre-screened ex vivo for antigen-specific reactivity showed the highest pooled ORR at 50% (95% CI 35%-64%), followed by young TIL at 43% (95% CI 29%-58%) and bulk TIL at 36% (95% CI 31%-42%); this observation is based on only 4 cohorts with a limited aggregate patient number and should be regarded as hypothesis-generating. No significant difference in ORR was observed by lymphodepletion status (p = 0.9544). Evidence in non-melanoma solid tumours was limited and heterogeneous, with generally lower response rates. Safety profiles were consistent across studies and primarily attributable to lymphodepleting chemotherapy and interleukin-2 administration, including haematologic and cytokine-related toxicities; treatment-related mortality was uncommon. Manufacturing success rates were high across contemporary cohorts, with a resection-to-infusion time typically spanning 4-6 weeks.TIL therapy demonstrates consistent and clinically meaningful antitumor activity in melanoma, while evidence in non-melanoma tumors remains limited and heterogeneous. Future studies should prioritize biomarker-driven patient selection, optimization of manufacturing and conditioning strategies, and rational combination approaches to expand its applicability.https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/, identifier CRD420261291389.Copyright © 2026 Surendran, Gopisetty, Rajappa, Rao and Unnikrishnan.
Therapeutic options remain limited for advanced intracranial malignancies, including brain metastases and glioblastomas, particularly in patients ineligible for surgery, radiotherapy, or systemic therapies. This phase 1 study evaluates the safety and feasibility of intracranial administration of low-dose pemetrexed followed by RetroNectin-activated killer cells (RAKs) and interleukin 2 via an Ommaya reservoir (collectively referred to as SCOPE-T) in 25 patients with refractory intracranial malignancies. Nineteen patients completed at least one treatment cycle, and 17 received the maximum tested RAK dose (5 × 108 cells). Treatment is well tolerated, with no treatment-related adverse events greater than grade 2; transient fever and headache are the most common toxicities. Exploratory radiographic and clinical assessments suggest disease stabilization in evaluable patients. These findings support the feasibility and safety of intracranial SCOPE-T and indicate preliminary signals of therapeutic activity. Given the small sample size and non-randomized design, the results should be interpreted as exploratory (ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT05459441).Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The following letter to the editor was received in response to "What's Old Is New Again, Unfortunately," the editorial in the April 2026 Clinical Journal of Oncology Nursing. Selection of letters to be publishe.
We report a 50-year-old man who was referred for evaluation of suspected hepatic sarcoidosis after non-caseating granulomas were incidentally identified on the liver surface during surgery. Laboratory tests showed a cholestatic pattern with elevated alkaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, mild thrombocytopenia, and increased angiotensin-converting enzyme and soluble interleukin-2 receptor levels. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography demonstrated marked surface irregularity and reticular hypoattenuated linear structures within the liver. Gadoxetic acid-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging and contrast-enhanced ultrasonography revealed non-enhancing septum-like structures, whereas the intervening hepatic parenchyma showed preserved contrast uptake in the hepatobiliary phase of magnetic resonance imaging and in the post-vascular phase of contrast-enhanced ultrasonography. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy identified esophagogastric varices. Liver biopsy showed preserved hepatic architecture without diffuse parenchymal inflammation. Azan staining demonstrated spatially heterogeneous portal fibrosis, with marked fibrous expansion in two portal tracts and mild fibrous expansion in several other portal tracts. Neither portal-portal nor portal-central bridging fibrosis was identified, and regenerative nodules surrounded by fibrous septa were not evident. Non-caseating epithelioid granulomas containing multinucleated giant cells were observed within fibrotic portal tracts. The patient was diagnosed with hepatic and splenic sarcoidosis complicated by portal hypertension without histologically established cirrhosis. This case highlights that portal tract-predominant, spatially heterogeneous fibrosis in hepatic sarcoidosis may contribute to portal hypertension and distinctive reticular hepatic imaging findings, even in the absence of histologically established cirrhosis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Japanese Society of Gastroenterology.
Oncolytic viruses (OVs) represent an emerging class of cancer immunotherapeutics. Arming OVs with immunomodulatory transgenes is a promising strategy to reshape the tumor microenvironment (TME) and enhance therapeutic efficacy. We developed the oncolytic Coxsackievirus B3 (CVB3) strain PD-H, which has previously shown antitumor activity in colorectal and pancreatic cancer models. Here, we evaluated the capacity of PD-H to express transgenes and investigated whether its antitumor efficacy in colorectal cancer can be enhanced by insertion of the interleukin-2 (IL-2) mimetic Neoleukin-2/15 (Neo-2/15). Transgene insertion was best tolerated at the VP1-2A junction of the PD-H polyprotein, with viral replication and cytotoxicity inversely correlating with insert size. Genetic stability depended on the host cell line, transgene sequence and transgene length, with inserts up to 350 bp remaining stable for at least 10 viral passages. PD-H-derived Neo-2/15 was biologically active and induced proliferation of human CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in vitro. In vivo, intratumoral administration of PD-Neo-2/15 reduced the growth of subcutaneous Colon-26 tumors more effectively than PD-H and was associated with modulation of the TME, including an increased proportion of CD8+ T cells. Taken together, we demonstrate that arming PD-H with Neo-2/15 is a promising strategy to further enhance its anticancer efficacy.© 2026 The Authors.
Cerebellar climbing fiber-Purkinje cell (CF-PC) long-term depression (LTD) plays a critical role in motor learning and is modulated by locus coeruleus (LC) noradrenergic afferents via distinct adrenergic receptor (AR) subtypes. Nevertheless, the mechanisms underlying LC noradrenergic neuron-mediated regulation of CF-PC LTD remain poorly understood. Here, we investigated the effects of chemogenetic activation of LC noradrenergic afferents on CF-PC LTD in cerebellar slices from dopamine β-hydroxylase (DBH)-Cre mice using electrophysiology, glutamate sensor imaging, immunofluorescence and pharmacological approaches. Tetanic stimulation (5 Hz) of CFs induced CF-PC LTD under control conditions, and this LTD was enhanced by chemogenetic activation of LC noradrenergic afferents. Blockade of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR1) abolished LTD under control conditions, whereas chemogenetic activation of LC noradrenergic afferents triggered a novel form of CF-PC LTD accompanied by an increased N2/N1 ratio. With mGluR1 blocked, chemogenetic activation of LC noradrenergic afferents failed to trigger the novel CF-PC LTD following blockade of α2-AR or α2A-AR, but not α2B-AR or α2C-AR. Importantly, chemogenetic activation of LC noradrenergic afferents triggered LTD of glutamate fluorescence at CF terminals, which was abolished by blockade of α2-AR or α2A-AR, but not α2B-AR or α2C-AR. Notably, inhibition of either cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5) or presynaptic, but not postsynaptic, protein kinase A (PKA) completely abolished the CF-PC LTD triggered by chemogenetic activation of LC noradrenergic afferents in mouse cerebellar slices. Immunofluorescence results showed robust α2A-AR expression throughout the cerebellar molecular layer, with intense signals along PC dendrites and clear colocalization with vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (vGluT2) at cerebellar CF terminals. These results indicate that activation of LC noradrenergic afferents potentiates CF-PC LTD by triggering Glu-LTD at CF terminals through the α2A-AR/CDK5/PKA signaling cascade in the mouse cerebellar cortex.
Peripheral nerves regulate skin homeostasis by secreting neurotransmitters, but their role during skin aging remains incompletely understood. Here, we report that cutaneous denervation accelerates skin aging, as evidenced by collagen reduction. Neurofilament heavy chain (Nefh) is decreased in aged skin and is predominantly expressed in vesicular glutamate transporter 2-positive (Vglut2+) skin-innervating glutamatergic neurons. Notably, dermal fibroblasts, the primary producers of collagen, frequently contact Nefh+ nerve fibers. Moreover, Nefh deletion in Vglut2+ glutamatergic neurons drives skin fibroblast senescence and collagen loss, whereas additional glutamate improves skin aging phenotypes. Mechanistically, cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) interacts with both Nefh and Vglut2 and maintains glutamate release and collagen homeostasis. Additionally, in skin fibroblasts, solute carrier family 1 member 3 (Slc1a3) governs the collagen-promoting and anti-senescence functions of glutamate. Together, these findings reveal Nefh-mediated glutamatergic neuromodulation of skin aging and provide therapeutic targets for aging-related skin disorders.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5), a serine/threonine kinase, involved in neuronal development and neurodegenerative diseases, regulates pain. Whereas its contribution to pain processing within nociceptors is well established, but within dorsal horn neurons remains poorly understood.We used behaviour, electrophysiology, western blot and immunohistochemistry in the trigeminal ganglion (TG) and medullary dorsal horn (MDH) of male and female rats.In naïve animals, intracisternal roscovitine (seliciclib), a CDK5 inhibitor, suppresses selectively noxious-evoked responses of MDH wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons and leaves the windup phenomenon unchanged, suggesting that CDK5 signalling within TG, but not MDH, regulates nociceptive pain. Under inflammatory conditions, roscovitine prevents the facial spontaneous pain-like behaviour, and static and dynamic secondary mechanical hypersensitivities in both sexes and the sensitization of MDH WDR neurons. But it cannot reverse them. Conversely, roscovitine reduces the neuropathic mechanical hypersensitivities. Therefore, CDK5 signalling within MDH is differently involved in chronic pain, contributing to the maintenance of neuropathic pain but only the initiation of inflammatory pain, in both sexes. Interestingly, whereas p35, p25 and pERK1/2 MDH expressions increase under inflammatory and neuropathic conditions, CDK5 expression only enhances under neuropathic ones. Finally, p35 MDH expression strongly increases following inflammatory pain, occurring in ~70-80% of neurons and also in astrocytes and microglia.MDH CDK5-p35 specifically regulates, though differently, inflammatory and neuropathic pain, making it an attractive target for the development of long-lasting analgesics in both sexes. The therapeutic indication of CDK5 inhibitors needs to consider the nature of injury.© 2026 British Pharmacological Society.
Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is a prevalent neurodevelopmental condition characterized by persistent deficits in working memory (WM) and executive control. Dysregulation of the Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5)/p35 signaling pathway has been implicated in ADHD pathophysiology due to its impact on neuronal connectivity and dopamine regulation. Using p35 knockout (p35KO) mice-an animal model exhibiting ADHD-like phenotypes-we investigated WM performance, task-related c-Fos immunoreactivity (c-Fos-IR) expression under basal conditions as a function of sex and genotype, as well as WM responses to acute treatment with methylphenidate (MPH) or fluoxetine (FLX), administered alone or in combination. Under basal conditions, p35KO mice exhibited significantly reduced spontaneous alternation in the Y-maze test compared with wild type (WT), whereas recognition memory remained intact. Analysis of c-Fos-IR expression, used as a marker of task-related neuronal activity, revealed region- and genotype-dependent differences, with effects of sex. p35KO animals showed reduced c-Fos-IR expression in prefrontal cortical regions and increased expression in hippocampal regions. In the prefrontal cortex, males generally displayed higher c-Fos-IR expression than females, whereas hippocampal increases were evident in p35KO mice of both sexes, with a female-specific increase in the dentate gyrus. Acute MPH or FLX treatment significantly increased spontaneous alternation in p35KO mice in a genotype-dependent manner, whereas this effect was not observed following combined treatment (MPH + FLX). In WT mice, treatment with MPH, FLX, or MPH + FLX reduced spontaneous alternation; this reduction appeared more pronounced in females, although no significant interaction involving sex was detected. Exploratory activity was increased in p35KO mice independently of treatment. These findings support a role for Cdk5/p35 signaling in the prefrontal-hippocampal activation patterns associated with WM performance and suggest that cognitive and pharmacological responses to monoaminergic treatments are shaped by neurobiological background, with potential sex-related differences, underscoring the importance of considering these factors in preclinical ADHD research.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To explore the association between maternal cyclin-dependent kinase 5 regulatory subunit-associated protein 1-like 1 (CDKAL1) gene and adverse growth patterns in offspring aged 1-8 years, and whether gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) mediates this association.An 8-year follow-up was conducted on 345 mother-infant pairs in Tianjin, China. Growth patterns in offspring aged 1-8 years were identified by group-based trajectory modeling. Logistic regression and restricted cubic splines analyzed the association between CDKAL1 polygenic risk scores (PRS) and growth patterns in offspring aged 1-8 years.Four growth patterns were identified, including normal (n = 151), persistent lean (n = 128), and obesity (n = 66), which included both late and persistent obesity subtypes. In the adjusted model, the CDKAL1 PRS > 0.5 was associated with the persistent lean growth pattern (OR: 1.91, 95%CIs: 1.32-2.77) and the obesity growth pattern (OR: 2.07, 95% CIs: 1.65-2.60). After further adjustment for GDM, the associations remained significant for both the persistent lean growth pattern (OR: 1.97, 95% CI: 1.36-2.85) and the obesity growth pattern (OR: 2.19, 95% CI: 1.74-2.75).Maternal CDKAL1 gene was associated with adverse growth patterns in offspring, independently of GDM.Maternal CDKAL1 gene independently increases offspring's dual risk of persistent lean and obese growth patterns during childhood, independently of gestational diabetes (GDM). Challenges conventional understanding by revealing a direct effect of maternal genes on offspring growth beyond GDM-mediated pathways. Shifts research focus toward GDM-independent mechanisms, such as placental programming or direct metabolic set-point regulation. Enables early stratification of childhood growth risks and facilitates preemptive personalized nutritional interventions. Provides novel genetic perspectives and preventive opportunities for addressing the dual burden of childhood growth disparities.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to the International Pediatric Research Foundation, Inc.
Ulcerative colitis (UC) progression is closely associated with aberrant macrophage polarization and mitochondrial dysfunction. Here, we explored how biogenic selenium nanoparticles (SeNPs) protect against experimental colitis, using dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-challenged mice, together with lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-activated THP-1-derived macrophages as complementary in vivo and in vitro models. We found that selenium deficiency markedly aggravated DSS-induced intestinal barrier disruption, mucosal injury, and mitochondrial damage, underscoring the critical role of selenium homeostasis in mucosal immunity. Compared with inorganic selenium (Na2SeO3), biogenic SeNPs showed superior efficacy in alleviating colitis severity, preserving intestinal barrier integrity, restoring the intestinal stem cell niche, and promoting epithelial regeneration. Mechanistically, SeNPs shifted macrophage polarization away from the pro-inflammatory M1 state toward a more restorative profile. Transcriptomic and molecular analyses further suggested that these immunometabolic benefits were associated with preserved selenoprotein expression and peroxidase (GPx)/thioredoxin reductase (TrxR) activities, particularly restoration of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-resident selenoproteins selenoprotein K (SELENOK) and selenoprotein T (SELENOT), together with modulation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP3R)-voltage-dependent anion channel 1 (VDAC1)-mediated mitochondria-associated membrane (MAM) signaling. This stabilization of inter-organelle communication effectively blunted LPS-induced cytosolic calcium overload, thereby facilitating the molecular rebalancing of mitochondrial dynamics, as reflected by reduced dynamin-related protein 1 (DRP1) and increased mitofusin 2 (MFN2) expression, and was accompanied by attenuation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) overproduction and NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome activation. Furthermore, a Transwell co-culture system confirmed that SeNP-pretreated macrophages indirectly preserved NCM460 intestinal epithelial barrier integrity through paracrine mechanisms. Collectively, these results suggest that SeNPs may serve as a potential nanotherapeutic approach for UC by restoring intestinal homeostasis through modulation of macrophage mitochondrial dynamics and enhancement of immune-epithelial crosstalk.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42312138 is a review article
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex disorder involving multiple cellular and molecular mechanisms. Recent evidence suggests that metabolic alterations play a crucial role in AD progression. Likewise, diabetes and obesity-two major metabolic diseases-are well-established risk factors for AD. These conditions are associated with a significant expansion of white adipose tissue (WAT). Here, we hypothesize that visceral WAT may act as a key mediator between peripheral metabolic dysfunction and brain illnesses.Immunohistochemistry and biochemical approaches were used to evaluate the WAT from WT and db/db mice. Similar techniques were applied to examine the brain tissue of 3xTg-AD mice that received white epididymal fat pads from WT or db/db donors and determine the impact of adipose tissue transplantation on tau and Aβ pathology.Our study revealed that recipient 3xTg-AD mice that received db/db fat pads developed profound changes in tau pathology due to increased expression of the cyclin-dependent kinase 5 activator p25 compared with 3xTg-AD mice that received fad pads from WT or sham mice. This increment in p25/cdk5 was associated with a prominent inflammatory response induced by the WAT transplant. Moreover, the opposite effect on Aβ pathology was found. The reduction in Aβ levels was correlated with an increase in microglial phagocytic capacity.Overall, our study demonstrated a novel crosstalk between AD and metabolic disorders through white adipose signaling resulting in differential effects on tau and Aβ pathology mediated by an activated immune response.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) plays a critical role in pain transmission by phosphorylating key nociceptive proteins. One of its recently identified substrates, the P2X2 subunit, is part of the P2X2/3 purinergic receptor (P2X2/3R), which is implicated in nociceptive signaling. However, the specific contribution of Cdk5 to purinergic receptor-mediated pain responses remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the role of Cdk5 in pain responses elicited by α,β-methylene ATP (α,β-meATP), an agonist of P2X2/3R and P2X3R.Both pharmacological inhibition and genetic loss-of-function approaches were used to assess the role of Cdk5. Calcium (Ca2+) imaging was performed in cultured murine trigeminal ganglion (TG) neurons to characterize α,β-meATP-evoked responses. Surface biotinylation assays in HEK293 cells were used to assess P2X2 receptor membrane expression. In vivo, facial pain was induced by injecting α,β-meATP into the whisker pad of mice. Behavioral responses were evaluated in conditional Cdk5 knockout mice targeting sensory neurons and in control littermates.In TG neuron cultures, α,β-meATP evoked both fast and slow Ca2+ transients, which were sensitive to P2X3 or P2X2/3 channel blockade. Inhibition or genetic loss-of-function of Cdk5 predominantly accelerated the decay of slow responses, with minimal effects on fast responses. In HEK293 cells, Cdk5 activation did not alter the surface expression of P2X2 receptors. In vivo, α,β-meATP induced facial pain-like behaviors, including grooming and head flinching, which were significantly reduced in conditional Cdk5 knockout mice compared to controls.These findings indicate that Cdk5 modulates orofacial pain by regulating purinergic receptor-mediated signaling in trigeminal neurons. Specifically, Cdk5 appears to influence the functional properties of P2X2-containing channels, most likely P2X2/3 heteromeric receptors, without affecting their membrane expression. This modulation of receptor kinetics may underlie the observed changes in nociceptive behavior, highlighting Cdk5 and P2X receptors as a potential target for pain modulation.Copyright © 2026 Sandoval, Pinto-Pardo, Duran, Castro, Rossi, González-Billault, Pertusa, Madrid, Coddou and Utreras.
The mechanisms of resistance to Bruton tyrosine kinase inhibitors (BTKi) in MCL are not well understood. We found that cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5), a serine/threonine kinase, was upregulated in ibrutinib-resistant MCL cell lines and in primary MCL cells obtained from patients who progressed on BTKi. Furthermore, primary MCL cells upregulated CDK5 in BAFF/CD40L stromal conditions, and CDK5 mRNA overexpression in primary MCL tumors was associated with inferior outcomes. Genetic and pharmacologic (GFB-12811) manipulation of CDK5 in MCL cell lines revealed that CDK5 contributed to proliferation and ibrutinib resistance in vitro, while engineered expression of CDK5 in JeKo-1 cells shortened survival in a murine xenograft model. CDK5 was upregulated by B-cell receptor and BAFF signaling and complexed with BTK. Mass spectrometry analysis of CDK5-manipulated cells revealed that cell cycle and metabolism-related pathways were most affected by CDK5; 29 kinases were differentially active, and Src kinase activity correlated with CDK5 expression. CDK5 complexed with IRE1α and Xbp1, promoted IRE1α phosphorylation and increased Xbp1 levels thus facilitating unfolded protein response. Meanwhile, Xbp1 knockdown resensitized MCL cells to ibrutinib. Collectively, CDK5 promotes BTKi resistance via modulation of the XBP1/IRE1α axis of the UPR pathway and represents a potential therapeutic target in MCL.
Mutations in the BRAF (B-raf serine-threonine-protein kinase) gene occur in the majority of melanoma patients and significantly contribute to the progression of the disease. One of the most commonly used methods for treating melanoma is the use of BRAF and MEK (mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase) inhibitors. Unfortunately, resistance to treatment quickly develops in most patients. Therefore, an exhaustive understanding of the molecular basis of this resistance is crucial. We developed two melanoma cell lines resistant to vemurafenib (BRAF inhibitor) and cobimetinib (MEK inhibitor), which we previously characterized as highly invasive. Because cancer cells acquiring resistance may undergo significant metabolic changes, we investigated these processes in the obtained melanoma double-resistant cells. These cells exhibit increased glycolysis and elevated caveolin 1 levels, which contribute to their increased invasiveness. The mitochondria present in the peripheral region of the resistant cells are more functional than those present in the same region of control cells. Resistant cells also form more lipid droplets, but they are smaller than in control cells. Cholesterol ester level is reduced in resistant cells, while free cholesterol level is elevated. Moreover, resistant cells exhibit reduced lipolysis rate and expression of proteins regulating this process. In summary, the obtained results suggest that the purpose of metabolic changes present in melanoma cells resistant to BRAF/MEK inhibitors is mainly to support the significantly increased invasiveness of these cells.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Targeting lipid metabolism reprogramming presents a potential strategy to overcome drug resistance and enhance treatment outcomes in pancreatic cancer. Caveolin-1, a critical regulator of lipid metabolism, is highly expressed in pancreatic cancer, indicating its viability as a novel therapeutic target. To address the poor biocompatibility and inadequate tumor targeting associated with methyl-β-cyclodextrin (MβCD)-an indirect inhibitor of Caveolin-1 function through cholesterol chelation-novel MβCD@hyaluronic acid-adamantane (MβCD@HA-Ad) nanoparticles were developed to enhance therapeutic efficacy against pancreatic cancer. These nanoparticles achieve dual targeting via HA-mediated CD44 receptor binding and MβCD-driven Caveolin-1 metabolic inhibition, while exhibiting acid-responsive release properties that enhance their responsiveness to the pancreatic cancer microenvironment. In vitro studies suggest that MβCD@HA-Ad nanoparticles possess improved drug penetration capacity and enhanced antitumor effects. Inhibition of Caveolin-1 induces cell membrane stretching and increases Piezo1 sensitivity to mechanical stimuli, resulting in elevated intracellular Ca2+ influx, activation of PLA2G4A phosphorylation, and subsequent promotion of lipolysis. Concurrently, impaired endocytosis reduces fatty acid uptake, resulting in decreased lipid droplet accumulation. Non-targeted metabolomics analysis indicates that Caveolin-1 regulates glycerophospholipid and fatty acid metabolism in pancreatic cancer cells, influencing cellular growth, migration, and invasiveness. In a mouse model of pancreatic cancer, MβCD@HA-Ad nanoparticles exhibited excellent biosafety, efficient tumor-targeting capabilities, and sustained antitumor effects. By reducing lipid deposition in tumor tissues, these nanoparticles significantly delayed tumor progression and inhibited tumor cell proliferation. In summary, MβCD@HA-Ad nanoparticles exert precise antitumor effects by targeting Caveolin-1 and modulating the Piezo1/PLA2G4A signaling axis to disrupt lipid metabolism, thereby presenting a novel nanotherapeutic strategy for pancreatic cancer.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42518953 is a review article
Factors limiting fat cell expandability remain scarcely explored, and comprehensive functional comparisons of adipose depots in humans are limited. In the present study, we collected visceral adipose tissue (VAT) and subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT) paired-samples from 22 patients with obesity undergoing elective Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery. Whole tissue samples were used to determine adipocyte cell size using a coulter counter and gene expression levels using bulk mRNA sequencing. Isolated adipocytes from the same tissue samples were used to functionally assess glucose uptake using glucose tracer assay, and lipolysis by measuring glycerol release. Western blotting was used to determine Caveolin 1 levels in adipocytes. The relationship between COL3A1 expression and systemic health outcomes was assessed using data from the Adipose Tissue Knowledge Portal. We found that SAT adipocytes were larger in size, displayed higher basal lipolysis and higher lipolysis-related gene expression than VAT adipocytes. Isoprenaline-induced lipolytic responsiveness, as well as basal and insulin-stimulated glucose uptake were higher in VAT than in SAT adipocytes. SAT displayed higher levels of extracellular matrix components associated with cellular flexibility and higher cellular Caveolin 1 levels than VAT. Further, we identified subcutaneous adipose tissue COL3A1 as a potential contributor to insulin resistance in obesity, positively associated with BMI, HOMA-IR and adipocyte size. In summary, our findings underscore distinct metabolic properties of subcutaneous and visceral adipocytes in obesity, with SAT adipose tissue exhibiting characteristics that possibly promote greater cellular expandability.
No effective clinical therapeutic strategies are currently available for paraquat (PQ)-induced pulmonary fibrosis. This study determined whether metformin (MET) ameliorates PQ-induced pulmonary fibrosis and the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in alveolar epithelial cells and explored the underlying molecular mechanisms. Expression of EMT-related markers, ferroptosis-related indicators, and caveolin-1 were examined and the regulatory role of the EZH2/H3K27me3 axis was evaluated using in vitro and in vivo models. PQ induced the EMT and ferroptosis in MLE-12 cells. MET upregulated caveolin-1 expression by inhibiting EZH2 and reducing H3K27me3, which in turn suppressed ferroptosis. MET attenuated PQ-induced pulmonary fibrosis via this signaling pathway and these results were further validated in animal models.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Periodontal disease is one of the most common oral disorders in dogs and is characterized by inflammation and destruction of periodontal tissues. This study aimed to compare local and systemic inflammatory and oxidative stress biomarkers in dogs with gingivitis and periodontitis and to evaluate neopterin as a potential biomarker of periodontal inflammation.A total of 52 dogs were included, comprising 26 dogs with gingivitis and 26 dogs with periodontitis. Gingival crevicular fluid (GCF), blood, and serum samples were collected. Total oxidant status (TOS), total antioxidant status (TAS), caveolin-1, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, neopterin, and selected hematological variables were measured. Biomarker concentrations and correlations between serum and GCF were evaluated.Dogs with periodontitis exhibited significantly higher serum TOS, TAS, and IL-6 concentrations than dogs with gingivitis (p < 0.001). In contrast, serum and GCF concentrations of IL-1β, MCP-1, caveolin-1, and neopterin were significantly higher in dogs with gingivitis (p < 0.001). Neutrophil and monocyte counts were also higher in the gingivitis group. Significant correlations were identified between serum and GCF biomarker concentrations.Periodontal disease in dogs was associated with distinct stage-dependent inflammatory and oxidative stress profiles. Gingivitis was characterized by increased levels of several inflammatory mediators, whereas periodontitis was associated with increased oxidative stress and IL-6 concentrations. These findings suggest that local and systemic biomarker responses vary according to periodontal disease stage and warrant further investigation of GCF biomarkers for monitoring periodontal inflammation.Copyright © 2026 Doğu Turgut and Efe Kurtdede. International Journal of Dentistry published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Endothelial dysfunction is a major contributor to multi-organ failure and mortality in sepsis, with the lungs being particularly susceptible to vascular leakage. Previous studies have implicated matrix metalloproteinase 8 (MMP8) in sepsis pathogenesis. However, the role of MMP8 in maintaining endothelial barrier integrity during sepsis remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the role of MMP8 in sepsis-induced vascular leakage and the underlying mechanisms. A significant increase in MMP8 expression was observed in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-treated endothelial cells and lung tissues from mice with cecum ligation and puncture-induced sepsis. In vitro, loss- or gain-of-function of MMP8 in endothelial cells modulated LPS- or Cytomix (TNF-α, IL-1β and IFN-γ)-induced endothelial hyperpermeability, without inducing cell apoptosis or affecting cell viability. In vivo, pharmacologic inhibition of MMP8 alleviated pulmonary vascular leakage, multi-organ injury, and mortality in septic mice. Mechanistically, MMP8 interacted with ERK, promoting its phosphorylation, and consequently activated calpains, leading to membrane VE-cadherin proteolysis. This induced VE-cadherin internalisation through clathrin- and caveolin 1-mediated endocytosis. Clinically, serum MMP8 levels were elevated in patients with sepsis, with the highest levels observed in those with pleural effusion. A nomogram incorporating albumin, blood urea nitrogen, lactate, Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II score, and serum MMP8 levels showed favourable prediction accuracy and clinical utility for pleural effusion risk. These findings suggest the critical role of MMP8 in sepsis and its potential as a promising biomarker of sepsis-induced pulmonary vascular leakage.© 2026. The Author(s).
Right ventricular (RV) failure is the leading cause of death in pulmonary artery hypertension (PAH) and treatments that preserve RV contractility are urgently required. β-adrenoceptor blockers (BB) are used clinically in left ventricular failure to improve β-adrenoceptor (AR) responsiveness but it is not known whether they confer the same benefits in RV failure. Here we tested this using the rat monocrotaline (MCT) model of PAH. When PAH was established, treatment commenced with β1AR-selective metoprolol (10 mg/kg/day; MCT + BB group) or vehicle (MCT group). In isolated RV myocytes from MCT, inotropic and lusitropic responses to β1AR stimulation were blunted vs. non-failing controls (CON), and this was recovered by BB treatment. Comparable effects on amplitude/kinetics of the Ca2+ transient were observed. The impact of RV failure and BB on β1AR responsiveness could be explained by altered expression of proteins of the βAR cascade and its regulatory domain, the caveola. Expression of β1AR, adenylyl cyclase 5/6, caveolin 1 & 3, and cavin 1 were decreased in RV from MCT, whereas G protein receptor kinase was increased. These changes were reversed by BB treatment, with the exception of caveolin 1. A computational model of cardiac myocyte β1AR signalling, incorporating observed changes in protein expression, showed that BB treatment recovered the β1AR-cAMP signals in caveolar and extra-caveolar compartments. Modelling indicated that recovery of adenylyl cyclase 5/6 was the main factor responsible for the beneficial impact of BB treatment on failing RV myocyte contractility. As RV function critically influences symptoms and mortality, this work supports the potential use of BB as a novel treatment for PAH-RV failure.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Despite the precise targeting of radiation therapy, collateral damage to adjacent healthy tissues remains an inevitable consequence. Currently, no effective clinical intervention exists to prevent or alleviate these adverse effects. To address this issue, our study established a whole-abdominal irradiation (WAI) model using C57BL/6J mice to investigate the systemic effects of ionizing radiation (IR) on the gut and other organs. Results confirmed that IR not only causes significant intestinal damage but also induces cardiac injury and cognitive dysfunction through remote effects. Ergothioneine (EGT), a naturally occurring dietary sulfur compound, has garnered significant attention in recent years for its unique functions in antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and metabolic regulation. Our findings reveal that EGT significantly mitigates IR-induced structural damage to the intestine, preserves crypt-villus architecture, restores goblet cell numbers, and reduces systemic inflammation. Furthermore, EGT modified post-IR gut microbiota composition by decreasing the relative abundance of Candidatus_Soleaferrea and downregulating calcium voltage-gated channel subunit alpha1 C (Cacna1c) expression. EGT alleviated WAI-induced cardiac and cognitive dysfunction through the gut-heart and gut-brain axes. EGT also ameliorated dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis and enhanced intestinal barrier function. Our findings identify EGT as a novel multi-organ radioprotective agent that acts through microbiota modulation and Cacna1c regulation, providing a viable strategy for improving radiotherapy safety and efficacy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Objective: To investigate the effect and underlying mechanism of sonodynamic therapy (SDT) on inflammation-related atrial fibrillation (AF) susceptibility. Methods: Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated mouse and HL-1 mouse atrial myocyte models were used. (1) In vivo study: experimental groups included control, LPS, LPS+SDT, and SDT groups, with 20 mice in each group. Atrial fibrillation inducibility and duration were assessed by electrical stimulation. Western blot was used to analyze atrial expression of NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing protein 3 (NLRP3), interleukin (IL)-1β, and IL-18. Immunohistochemistry was used to detect calcium voltage-gated channel subunit alpha1 C (CACNA1C) expression. (2) In vitro study: cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) and Western blot were used to determine the optimal and safe LPS concentration. The safe incubation condition for the sonosensitizer sinoporphyrin sodium was determined by CCK-8 and fluorometry. An LPS-induced inflammatory model in HL-1 atrial myocytes was used, with experimental groups including control, LPS, LPS+SDT, LPS+sinoporphyrin sodium, and LPS+ultrasound groups. NLRP3 was overexpressed using plasmid transfection, with experimental groups including control, NLRP3 plasmid, negative control plasmid, and NLRP3 plasmid+SDT groups. SDT was applied to LPS-stimulated or NLRP3-overexpressing HL-1 cells. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and Western blot were used to measure mRNA and protein levels of NLRP3, apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a CARD (ASC), Cleaved Caspase-1, IL-1β, IL-18, and CACNA1C. The NLRP3 inhibitor MCC950 was used to validate the relationship of NLRP3 and CACNA1C. The experimental groups included control, LPS, LPS+MCC950, and MCC950 groups. Intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels were detected using the probe DCFH-DA, and the ROS scavenger N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC) was used to test if the effects of SDT was ROS-dependent. Results: (1) In vivo: The LPS+SDT group exhibited a lower incidence of atrial fibrillation induction and a shorter duration of atrial fibrillation compared to the LPS group(both P<0.05). Protein expression levels of NLRP3 and IL-1β were lower than those in the LPS group (all P<0.05), while the expression of CACNA1C subunit tended to increase relative to the LPS group (P>0.05). (2) In vitro: The safe concentration of LPS for administration was ≤20 μg/ml, with an optimal pro-inflammatory concentration of 4 μg/ml. The safe concentration of sinoporphyrin sodium for administration was 0.4 μmol/L, with an optimal incubation time of 4 hours. Compared to the LPS group or NLRP3 plasmid group, the LPS+SDT group or NLRP3 plasmid+SDT group exhibited lower expression levels of NLRP3, ASC, Cleaved Caspase-1, IL-1β, and IL-18, and higher mRNA and protein levels of CACNA1C (all P<0.05). The LPS+MCC950 group had higher CACNA1C protein expression than the LPS group (P<0.05). SDT increased intracellular ROS levels, and NAC blocked the regulatory effects of SDT on NLRP3 and CACNA1C. Conclusion: SDT reduces atrial fibrillation susceptibility in mice by inhibiting NLRP3 inflammasome activation in atrial cardiomyocytes, thereby upregulating the L-type calcium channel subunit CACNA1C.
Studies have shown that DNA methylation of the CACNA1C gene is involved in the pathogenesis of various diseases and the mechanism of drug action. However, its relationship with atrial fibrillation (AF) remains largely unexplored.To investigate the association between DNA methylation of the CACNA1C gene and AF by combining decitabine (5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine, AZA) treatment with multi-omics analysis.HepG2 cells were treated with AZA to observe the expression of the CACNA1C gene, which was further validated using gene expression microarrays. Pyrosequencing was employed to validate differentially methylated sites of the CACNA1C gene observed in DNA methylation microarrays. A custom DNA methylation dataset based on the MSigDB database was combined with ChIP-sequencing and RNA-sequencing data to explore the regulatory patterns of DNA methylation of the CACNA1C gene.Treatment of HepG2 cells with three different concentrations of AZA (2.5 µM, 5.0 µM, and 10.0 µM) resulted in 1.6, 2.5, and 2.9-fold increases in the mRNA expression of the CACNA1C gene, respectively, compared to the DMSO group, with statistical significance at the highest concentration group (p < 0.05). Similarly, AZA treatment of T47D cells showed upregulated mRNA expression of the CACNA1C gene in the gene expression microarray results (adj P < 0.05). DNA methylation microarray analysis revealed that methylation of a CpG site in intron 30 of the CACNA1C gene may be associated with AF (adj P < 0.05). Pyrosequencing of this site and its adjacent two CpG sites demonstrated significant differences in DNA methylation levels between AF and sinus rhythm groups (p < 0.05). Subsequent multivariate logistic regression models confirmed that the DNA methylation degree of these three sites and their average was associated with AF (p < 0.05). Additionally, the UCSC browser combined with ChIP-sequencing revealed that the aforementioned region was enriched in enhancer markers H3K27ac and H3K4me1. Differential expression and pathway analysis of RNA-sequencing data ultimately identified ATF7IP and KAT2B genes as potential regulators of the CACNA1C gene.The DNA methylation levels at three CpG sites in intron 30 of the CACNA1C gene are associated with AF status, and potentially regulated by ATF7IP and KAT2B.Copyright © 2024 Yang, Li, Liu, Shao, Yang, Niu, Peng and Meng.
Allergic inflammation is closely related to the activation of mast cells (MCs), which is regulated by its intracellular Ca2+ level, but the intake and effects of the intracellular Ca2+ remain unclear. The Ca2+ influx is controlled by members of Ca2+ channels, among which calcium voltage-gated channel subunit alpha1 C (CaV1.2) is the most robust. This study aimed to reveal the role and underlying mechanism of MC CaV1.2 in allergic inflammation. We found that CaV1.2 participated in MC activation and allergic inflammation. Nimodipine (Nim), as a strong CaV1.2-specific antagonist, ameliorated allergic inflammation in mice. Further, CaV1.2 activation in MC was triggered by phosphatizing at its Ser1928 through protein kinase C (PKC), which calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) catalyzed. Overexpression or knockdown of MC CaV1.2 influenced MC activation. Importantly, CaV1.2 expression in MC had detrimental effects, while its deficiency ameliorated allergic pulmonary inflammation. Results provide novel insights into CaV1.2 function and a potential drug target for controlling allergic inflammation.© 2024 The Author(s).
Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) cause delayed wound closed up in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), but the specific regulatory mechanism of NETs-related genes (NETs-RGs) in T2DM is unclear.We acquired GSE21321 and GSE15932 datasets from gene expression omnibus (GEO) database. First, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between T2DM and control samples of GSE21321 dataset were sifted out by differential expression analysis. NETs scores were calculated for all samples in GSE21321 dataset, and key module genes associated with NETs scores were screened by constructing co-expression network. Then, DEGs and key module genes were intersected to yield intersection genes, and candidate genes were identified by constructing a protein protein interaction (PPI) network. Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression analysis was implemented on candidate genes to screen out diagnostic genes, and they were subjected to single sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA). Finally, immune characteristic analysis was carried out, and we constructed the gene-drug and transcription factor (TF)-miRNA-mRNA networks. Besides, we validated the expression of diagnostic genes by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR).In total, 23 candidate genes were gained by PPI analysis. The 5 diagnostic genes, namely, inter-trypsin inhibitor heavy chain 3 (ITIH3), fibroblast growth factor 1 (FGF1), neuron cell adhesion molecule (NRCAM), advanced glycosylation end-product-specific receptor (AGER), and calcium voltage-gated channel subunit alpha1 C (CACNA1C), were identified via LASSO analysis, and they were involved in carboxylic acid transport, axonogenesis, etc. M2 Macrophage, Monocyte, Natural killer (NK) cell, and Myeloid dendritic cells (DC) were remarkably different between T2DM and control samples. Diagnostic genes had the strongest and the most significant positive correlation with B cells. The gene-drug network included CACNA1C-Isradipine, CACNA1C-Benidipine and other relationship pairs. Totally 76 nodes and 44 edges constituted the TF-miRNA-mRNA network, including signal transducer and activator of transcription 1(STAT1) -hsa-miR-3170-AGER, CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF)-hsa-miR-455-5p-CACNA1C, etc. Moreover, qRT-PCR suggested that the expression trends of FGF1 and AGER were in keeping with the results of bioinformatic analysis. FGF1 and AGER were markedly regulated downwards in the T2DM group.Through bioinformatic analysis, we identified NETs-related diagnostic genes (ITIH3, FGF1, NRCAM, AGER, CACNA1C) in T2DM, and explored their mechanism of action from different aspects, providing new ideas for the studies related to diagnosis and treatment of T2DM.Copyright © 2024 He, Niu, Cheng and Guo.
The expression of Neuritin-1 (NRN1), a neurotrophic factor crucial for neurodevelopment and synaptic plasticity, is enhanced by the Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF). Although the receptor of NRN1 remains unclear, it is suggested that NRN1's activation of the insulin receptor (IR) pathway promotes the transcription of the calcium voltage-gated channel subunit alpha1 C (CACNA1C). These three genes have been independently associated with schizophrenia (SZ) risk, symptomatology, and brain differences. However, research on how they synergistically modulate these phenotypes is scarce. We aimed to study whether the genetic epistasis between these genes affects the risk and clinical presentation of the disorder via its effect on brain structure. First, we tested the epistatic effect of NRN1 and BDNF or CACNA1C on (i) the risk for SZ, (ii) clinical symptoms severity and functionality (onset, PANSS, CGI and GAF), and (iii) brain cortical structure (thickness, surface area and volume measures estimated using FreeSurfer) in a sample of 86 SZ patients and 89 healthy subjects. Second, we explored whether those brain clusters influenced by epistatic effects mediate the clinical profiles. Although we did not find a direct epistatic impact on the risk, our data unveiled significant effects on the disorder's clinical presentation. Specifically, the NRN1-rs10484320 x BDNF-rs6265 interplay influenced PANSS general psychopathology, and the NRN1-rs4960155 x CACNA1C-rs1006737 interaction affected GAF scores. Moreover, several interactions between NRN1 SNPs and BDNF-rs6265 significantly influenced the surface area and cortical volume of the frontal, parietal, and temporal brain regions within patients. The NRN1-rs10484320 x BDNF-rs6265 epistasis in the left lateral orbitofrontal cortex fully mediated the effect on PANSS general psychopathology. Our study not only adds clinical significance to the well-described molecular relationship between NRN1 and BDNF but also underscores the utility of deconstructing SZ into biologically validated brain-imaging markers to explore their mediation role in the path from genetics to complex clinical manifestation.© 2024. The Author(s).
To investigate the mechanism of action of the Lingbao Huxin Dan in treating bradycardia arrhythmia with coronary heart disease (BA-CHD) by network pharmacology.The active ingredients of the Lingbao Huxin Dan were screened on the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology Database and Analysis Platform and Bioinformatics tools designed for the analysis of molecular mechanisms of Chinese medicine platform; target prediction was conducted with the SwissTargetPrediction database, and Cytoscape 3.8 was used to construct a drug ingredient-target network. The Genecards, Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man, and DrugBank databases were searched for disease targets. Venn plots were used to display the common targets of BA-CHD and active ingredients. The STRING platform was used to construct a protein-protein interaction network. The Metascape data platform was used for Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis to construct a signaling pathway network of the active ingredients of the Lingbao Huxin Dan.There were 121 active ingredients, 899 related targets, 39 targets important in BA-CHD and 14 targets which intersected between the active ingredients and BA-CHD. There were 27 core therapeutic ingredients, 153 biological processes, 18 cell ingredients and 20 molecular functions obtained by GO enrichment analysis. The KEGG pathway analysis yielded 19 signaling pathways.RBA-CHD may treat BA-CHD by regulating adrenergic receptor beta-1, alpha 1-α adrenergic receptor, calcium voltage-gated channel subunit alpha1 C, alpha-1β-adrenergic receptor, nitric oxide synthase 2, beta-2 adrenergic receptor, voltage-dependent calcium channel subunit alpha-2/delta-1, an- giotensin-converting enzyme, Raf-1 proto-oncogene serine/threonine-protein kinase, and other targets, potentially by affecting adrenergic receptor binding and calcium channel opening, to regulate the activity of cardiomyocytes.
Primary focal hyperhidrosis (PFH) may be attributed to the up-regulation of the cholinergic receptor nicotinic alpha 1 subunit (CHRNA1) in eccrine glands. Plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI1, encoded by SERPINE1) is reported to inhibit the expression of CHRNA1, while the role of PAI1 in hyperhidrosis is unknown.Serpine1 KO mice, Serpine1-Tg mice, and wild type BALB/c mice were intraperitoneally injected with pilocarpine hydrochloride to induce PFH. Cisatracurium (CIS, antagonist of CHRNA1) or PAI-039 (small-molecule inhibitor of PAI1) was pre-administrated before the induction of hyperhidrosis. On the other hand, Chrna1-expressing AAV was constructed and administered to Serpine1-Tg mice with hydrochloride stimulation. Hydrochloride-related biomarkers, such as acetylcholine (ACH) in the serum, calcium voltage-gated channel subunit alpha1 C (CACNA1C), and aquaporin 5 (AQP5) in sweat glands of mice were assayed with ELISA, RT-PCR, and Western blot.The administration of PAI-039 or Pai1 knock-out increased Chrna1 expression, sweat secretion, and hydrochloride-related biomarkers (ACH, CACNA1C, and AQP5) expression. On the other hand, CIS administration diminished the strengthened hyperhidrosis phenotype induced by Pai1 knock-out with decreased sweat gland secretion.PAI1 inhibits CHRNA1-mediated hydrochloride-induced hyperhidrosis, with decreased sweat gland secretion and diminished ACH, AQP5, and CACNA1C expression. These results indicate the potential to utilize PAI1 to alleviate PFH.© 2023. Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale (INSERM).
Genetic perturbations in dopamine neurotransmission and calcium signaling pathways are implicated in the etiology of schizophrenia. We aimed to test the association of a functional splice variant each in Dopamine β-Hydroxylase (DBH; rs1108580) and Calcium voltage-gated channel subunit alpha1 C (CACNA1C; rs1006737) genes in these pathways with schizophrenia (506 cases, 443 controls); Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS) scores in subjects assessed for tardive dyskinesia (76 TD-positive, 95 TD-negative) and Penn Computerized Neurocognitive Battery (PennCNB) scores (334 cases, 234 controls). The effect of smoking status and SNP genotypes on AIMS scores were assessed using ANOVA; health status and SNP genotypes on three performance functions of PennCNB cognitive domains were assessed by ANCOVA with age and sex as covariates. Association with Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) scores in the TD cohort and cognitive scores in healthy controls of the cognition cohort were tested by linear regression. None of the markers were associated with schizophrenia. Smoking status [F(2, 139) = 10.6; p = 5 × 10-5], rs1006737 [F(2, 139) = 7.1; p = 0.001], TD status*smoking [F(2, 139) = 8.0; p = 5.0 × 10-4] and smoking status*rs1006737 [F(4, 139) = 2.7; p = 0.03] had an effect on AIMS score. Furthermore, rs1006737 was associated with orofacial [F(2, 139) = 4.6; p = 0.01] and limb-truncal TD [(F(2, 139) = 3.8; p = 0.02]. Main effect of rs1108580 on working memoryprocessing speed [F(2, 544) = 3.8; p = 0.03] and rs1006737 on spatial abilityefficiency [F(1, 550) = 9.4; p = 0.02] was identified. Health status*rs1006737 interaction had an effect on spatial memoryprocessing speed [F(1, 550) = 6.9; p = 0.01]. Allelic/genotypic association (p = 0.01/0.03) of rs1006737 with disorganized/concrete factor and allelic association of rs1108580 (p = 0.04) with a depressive factor of PANSS was observed in the TD-negative subcohort. Allelic association of rs1006737 with sensorimotor dexterityaccuracy (p = 0.03), attentionefficiency (p = 0.05), and spatial abilityefficiency (p = 0.02); allelic association of rs1108580 with face memoryaccuracy (p = 0.05) and emotionefficiency (p = 0.05); and allelic/genotypic association with emotionaccuracy (p = 0.003/0.009) were observed in healthy controls of the cognition cohort. These association findings may have direct implications for personalized medicine and cognitive remediation.© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of chronic intermittent hypoxia (CIH) on atrial electrical remodeling in Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats, which provide the explication for the mechanisms of CIH promoting atrial fibrillation (AF).Eighty SD rats were randomly divided into 2 groups: control group and CIH group (n=40). CIH rats were subjected to CIH 8 h/d for 30 days. After the echocardiography and hemodynamics examination, cardiac electrophysiological experiments, histological experiments, and molecular biological experiments were executed. AF susceptibility was measured by isolated heart electrophysiological experiments. Masson's trichrome stain was used to assess the degree of atrial fibrosis. The protein expression levels of sodium voltage-gated channel alpha subunit 5 (SCN5A/Nav1.5), calcium voltage-gated channel subunit alpha1 C (CACNA1C/Cav1.2) and potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily D member 3 (KCND3/Kv4.3) were measured by Western blot. In whole-cell patch clamp experiments, current clamp mode was used to record AP, and APD90 and APD50 were analyzed and compared between the two groups. In voltage clamp mode, INa, ICa-L, Ito and their kinetic parameters were recorded and compared between the two groups.Compared to the control rats, atrial interstitial collagen deposition (P＜0.01) and AF inducibility (P＜0.05) were increased in CIH rats, whereas the expression levels of Nav1.5, Cav1.2 and Kv4.3 were decreased (P＜0.05). APD90 and APD50 in CIH rats' atrial myocytes were longer than those of control rats, and CIH rats showed decreased current density of INa, ICa-L(P＜0.01) and Ito(P＜0.01).CIH-induced changes in the protein expression levels of ion channel subunits, current intensity, APD, and AF susceptibility, which may be the mechanisms of CIH promoting AF.
Are there new genetic factors responsible for male infertility characterized by fertilization defects despite normal sperm motility?We identified the novel pathogenetic gene actin-related protein T3 (ACTRT3) as one of primary causes for male infertility characterized by fertilization defects.To date, only a few genes have been reported to be responsible for fertilization defects in male infertility despite normal sperm motility. ACTRT3, as one of the actin-related proteins, is specifically expressed highly in murine testes and interacts with the protein Profilin3 to form a testis-specific complex during spermatogenesis.The ACTRT3 variants were identified by whole-exome sequencing in a cohort of 248 infertile couples characterized by fertilization defects (fertilization rate ≤ 30% in their IVF/ICSI attempts) despite normal sperm concentration (≥15 × 106/ml) and normal motility (progressive motility ≥32%; motility of PR (progressive)+NP (non-progressive) ≥40%). Thirty-six hours after cell transfection, immunoprecipitation was performed to detect the interaction between ACTRT3 and actin-like 7A (ACTL7A)/phospholipase C zeta 1 (PLCZ1) (n = 3 biological replicates). A knock-in (KI) mouse model was generated by CRISPR-Cas9. Sexually mature males (10 weeks old) were used for fertility testing (n = 3 mice per group, lasts 6-8 months), semen parameter analysis (n = 3 mice per group), western blot (n = 3 biological replicates), immunofluorescence (n = 3 biological replicates), IVF (n ≥ 3 biological replicates), ICSI (n = 3 biological replicates), scanning electron microscopy (SEM, n = 3 mice per group), transmission electron microscopy (TEM, n = 3 mice per group), Ca2+ oscillations (n ≥ 3 biological replicates), and other functional assays between 2022 and 2025.The ACTRT3 variants were identified by whole-exome sequencing and confirmed by Sanger sequencing. ACTRT3 KI mouse was constructed to discover the pathogenic mechanism. We first checked ultrastructure of the sperm through periodic acid-schiff staining, SEM, and TEM. Western blotting, immunofluorescence, and immunoprecipitation were further performed to clarify the molecular mechanism of the ACTRT3 variants.We identified compound-heterozygous (NM_032487.5: c. C41G (p. Ser14Trp) and c. C687delA (p. Lys229fs)) and homozygous variants (NM_032487.5: c.712C>T (p. Gln238Ter)) in ACTRT3 in two infertile males, and functional studies in transgenic KI mouse models confirmed the pathogenicity of the Actrt3 variants. Defects in ACTRT3 caused decreased protein levels of ACTL7A and disrupted localization of PLCZ1 in sperm, which resulted in acrosome detachment, further impacted the binding between sperm and the zona pellucida of oocytes and caused fertilization failure. In addition, sperm with defective ACTRT3 cannot initiate calcium oscillations, which leads to embryo arrest.N/A.More cases are needed to confirm the genetic contribution of ACTRT3 variants to male infertility. In addition, it will be more persuasive and informative by adding the rescue experiments of artificial oocyte activation through SrCl2 which is used to active calcium ion oscillation.Our findings suggest the causal relationship between ACTRT3 variants and male infertility caused by fertilization defects, and partially revealing the pathological mechanisms of ACTRT3 variants. This provides new insights into the understanding of male infertility due to fertilization problems and provides references for future clinical treatment.This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (82325021, 32130029, and 82201767) and the Fundamental and Interdisciplinary Disciplines Breakthrough Plan of the Ministry of Education of China (No. JYB2025XDXM508).N/A.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Coronary artery disease (CAD) is a leading global cause of mortality, yet the predictive accuracy of conventional risk models is limited. Here, we integrate conventional risk factors, polygenic risk scores, and large-scale proteomics to develop a unified model for enhanced CAD risk prediction.Using data from UK Biobank, participants with plasma proteomics and genetic risk data were included after excluding prevalent CAD. Participants from England were split into training (n=32 330) and internal validation (n=13 857) sets, and Scotland/Wales participants formed an external validation set (n=5775). Incident CAD was ascertained from linked health records. A 202-protein proteomic risk score was derived by least absolute shrinkage and selection operator Cox regression, and CatBoost models were trained using conventional risk factors alone and with incremental addition of polygenic risk scores and protein proteomic risk scores; Shapley Additive Explanations-guided forward selection identified a compact protein panel.Across cohorts, the median age was 58 years and ∼45% were men. Protein proteomic risk score was dose-dependently associated with CAD risk. Compared with conventional risk factors alone, integrating polygenic risk scores and protein proteomic risk scores improved discrimination, with the area under the curve increasing from 0.750 (95% CI, 0.732-0.767) to 0.789 (95% CI, 0.772-0.805) in internal validation and from 0.717 (95% CI, 0.683-0.750) to 0.762 (95% CI, 0.732-0.791) in external validation. A 9-protein panel (GDF15 [growth differentiation factor 15], MMP12 [matrix metalloproteinase 12], NPPB [natriuretic peptide B], PGF [placental growth factor], REN [renin], ADGRG2 [adhesion G-protein coupled receptor], ACE2 [angiotensin-converting enzyme 2], CDCP1 [CUB domain-containing protein 1], CXCL17 [C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 17)]) captured most proteomic predictive information.Our findings demonstrate that integrating conventional risk factors, polygenic risk scores, and proteomic data improves CAD risk prediction. This study highlights the utility of proteomics in precision cardiovascular medicine and simplified risk stratification tools.
Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory condition of the arterial wall in which endothelial dysfunction serves as a key driver of disease progression. Endothelial inflammation and pyroptosis are major contributors in this context; therefore, targeting these processes may confer therapeutic benefits. Transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 4 (TRPM4) is a voltage-sensitive, non-selective cation channel belonging to the transient receptor potential family. Although TRPM4 contributes to the regulation of vascular endothelium, its precise role in endothelial inflammation remains poorly understood. Accordingly, this study aims to elucidate the function and molecular mechanisms of TRPM4 in vascular endothelial inflammation and pyroptosis.An in vitro model of endothelial inflammation and pyroptosis was established by stimulating human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) with tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α). The TRPM4-specific inhibitor 9-Phenanthrol (9-Phe) was applied to assess TRPM4 involvement. Expression levels of TRPM4, inflammatory adhesion molecules (VCAM-1, ICAM-1), pyroptosis-related proteins (NLRP3, cleaved caspase-1, GSDMD, IL-1β, IL-18), and key transcriptional regulators were quantified via quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and Western blot. Intracellular calcium flux was measured using Fluo-4 AM. We used co-immunoprecipitation to assess the interaction between HSP60 and the IKKα/β complex, and Immunofluorescence to visualize nuclear translocation of phosphorylated NF-κB p65.TNF-α stimulation significantly upregulated the expression of TRPM4. Administration of the TRPM4 inhibitor 9-Phe attenuated this increase. Treatment with 9-Phe also reduced the TNF-α-induced elevation of adhesion molecules VCAM-1 and ICAM-1. It further decreased the expression of pyroptosis-related markers, including NLRP3, caspase-1, GSDMD, IL-1β, and IL-18. In addition, 9-Phe markedly reduced the TNF-α-driven nuclear translocation of phosphorylated NF-κB p65. HSP60 knockdown intensified TNF-α-induced inflammation and pyroptosis. Mechanistic analysis showed that TRPM4 inhibition reduced the interaction between HSP60 and the IKKα/β complex.TRPM4 plays a critical role in TNF-α-induced endothelial inflammation and pyroptosis, and its inhibition attenuates these pathological changes. Mechanistic findings indicate that TRPM4 promotes the interaction between HSP60 and IKKα/β, thereby activating the NF-κB pathway. Collectively, these results identify the TRPM4-HSP60-NF-κB axis as a central regulator of endothelial inflammation and pyroptosis, and suggest its potential as a therapeutic target for atherosclerosis.Copyright © 2026 Shen, Zhao, Zhang, Tong, Cui, Guo, Liang, Ma, Jin, Xiong, Tang, Gao, Zhang, Lv, Huo and Ban.
Bladder cancer (BLCA) is a common malignancy of the urinary system, yet the therapeutic relevance of transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 4 (TRPM4) remains unclear. By integrating single-cell and whole-genome transcriptomic data, this study revealed significant transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 4 (TRPM4) overexpression in bladder cancer (BLCA) (p < 0.05), particularly in epithelial cells. Intersection analysis identified 220 candidate genes (7,808 DEGs1, 4,683 DEGs2, and 4,802 key cell module genes). A risk model was constructed comprising six screened prognostic marker genes, namely, protein unc-93 homolog B1 (UNC93B1), family with sequence similarity 193 member B (FAM193B), protein O-glucosyltransferase (POGLUT3), fibrillin-1 (FBN1), microtubule-associated protein 1B (MAP1B), and RUNX family transcription factor 2 (RUNX2). The model demonstrated marked differences among the risk groups. Gene set enrichment analysis revealed significant disparities in key pathways, including the melanoma pathway (p < 0.05). Furthermore, immune infiltration analysis has identified 12 distinct immune cell types, including naive B cells, which showed a p < 0.05 distribution. The observed distribution was uneven. In the drug sensitivity analysis, 112 drugs (including WZ3105; p < 0.05) showed differential responses, and UNC93B1 showed high positive expression in BLCA tissues (positive cell proportion > 75%). Our studies confirmed that TRPM4 has significant prognostic value and is a potential novel diagnostic and therapeutic target for BLCA.Copyright © 2026 Zhao, Qin, Liu, Zuo, Guo, Jing and Li.
The roles of C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 17 (CXCL17) and its receptor, G protein-coupled receptor 25 (GPR25), in immune regulation are gaining recognition, but their evolutionary origins and phylogenetic distributions have yet to be determined. In this study, we identified a CXCL17 gene in the lobe-finned fish Latimeria chalumnae (coelacanth), a close living fish relative of tetrapods. This gene produces two alternatively spliced secretory proteins, designated Lc-CXCL17a and Lc-CXCL17b, which display limited sequence similarity to known CXCL17s from mammals or ray-finned fishes. Recombinant forms of Lc-CXCL17a and Lc-CXCL17b were generated via bacterial overexpression, purification, and enzymatic processing. Functional assays, including NanoLuc Binary Technology (NanoBiT)-based β-arrestin recruitment, NanoBiT-based ligand-receptor binding, and chemotaxis assays, demonstrated that both proteins tightly bound to and potently activated coelacanth GPR25 in a manner dependent on their C-terminal residues, because removal of these residues markedly diminished activities. These findings provide the first evidence that a functional CXCL17-GPR25 system exists in lobe-finned fishes, supporting the hypothesis that this ligand-receptor pair originated in ancient fishes and was transmitted to tetrapods through lobe-finned fish ancestors. This work broadens understanding of CXCL17 evolution and highlights the coelacanth as a valuable model for tracing conserved immune signaling pathways.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. and Société Française de Biochimie et Biologie Moléculaire (SFBBM). All rights reserved.
C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 17 (CXCL17) has recently been identified as an agonist of the poorly characterized G protein-coupled receptor 25 (GPR25). Although GPR25 orthologs are widely distributed across vertebrates, non-mammalian CXCL17 orthologs have only been identified in some fish species in our recent studies. In this study, we systematically searched public databases for amphibian CXCL17 orthologs based on conserved C-terminal motif, gene synteny, and genomic architecture. Using this approach, we identified up to eighteen possible CXCL17 orthologs from diverse amphibian species. These amphibian CXCL17s exhibit no significant overall sequence similarity to known mammalian or fish CXCL17s, and most of them display distinctive features, including four cysteine residues in their mature peptide and an additional residue following the conserved C-terminal Xaa-Pro-Yaa motif. A representative ortholog from the tropical clawed frog (Xenopus tropicalis) was recombinantly expressed and functionally characterized using cell-based assays, inducing ligand‒receptor binding, β-arrestin recruitment, and chemotactic cell migration. The recombinant amphibian CXCL17 directly bound to and efficiently activated its cognate GPR25 receptor and induced chemotactic migration of the transfected human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293T cells, but deletion of four C-terminal residues largely abolished its activity, indicating that all CXCL17 orthologs employ a conserved mechanism for receptor binding and activation. These findings provide new insights into the phylogenetic distribution and sequence diversity of CXCL17 orthologs across vertebrate lineages. In future, more studies are needed to clarify in vivo functions of the CXCL17‒GPR25 system in amphibians.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Objective: To evaluate the impact of bone metastasis on the prognosis of lung adenocarcinoma patients receiving first-line third-generation epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor (EGFR-TKI) and to explore the potential mechanisms by which bone metastasis contributes to EGFR-TKI resistance. Methods: A retrospective analysis was conducted on the clinical data of 370 EGFR-mutant advanced lung adenocarcinoma patients who received first-line treatment with third-generation EGFR-TKI at the First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University from January 2019 to June 2024, with follow-up until June 2024. Progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) were compared between patients with and without baseline bone metastasis. Survival curves were generated using the Kaplan-Meier method, and differences between groups were assessed by the log-rank test. Univariate and multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression models were applied to identify factors associated with PFS following third-generation EGFR-TKI treatment. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was performed on two primary pulmonary tumors and two bone metastatic lesions to characterize transcriptomic differences in cancer cells and immune cells within the tumor microenvironment. Gene ontology (GO) enrichment analysis was applied to identify bone metastasis-specific signaling pathways. Based on immune regulatory genes upregulated in cancer cells from bone metastatic lesions, an immune-regulatory score was constructed using a LASSO-Cox regression model in a training cohort of EGFR-mutant lung adenocarcinoma patients from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Patients in both the training cohort and an independent Asian EGFR-mutant lung adenocarcinoma validation cohort were stratified into high-and low-score groups according to the median immune regulatory score, and OS was compared between groups. Results: Among the 370 lung adenocarcinoma patients receiving first-line third-generation EGFR-TKI treatment, 161 patients had baseline bone metastasis [mean age (60±11) years; 70 males], while 209 patients had no baseline bone metastasis [mean age (61±9) years; 80 males]. No significant differences in baseline clinicopathological characteristics were observed between patients with and without bone metastasis (all P>0.05). The median PFS in the bone metastasis group was 27.5 months (95%CI: 22.0-33.1), which was significantly shorter than that in the non-bone metastasis group [59.0 months (95%CI: 32.8-85.1), P<0.001]. The median OS was 46.2 months (95%CI: 40.4-51.9) in the bone metastasis group, whereas the median OS had not yet been reached in the non-bone metastasis group, with a statistically significant difference (P=0.013). Multivariate Cox regression analysis identified bone metastasis as an independent risk factor for PFS (HR=1.74, 95%CI:1.27-2.37, P<0.001). Cancer cells in bone metastatic lesions exhibited upregulation of C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 17 (CXCL17), complement decay-accelerating factor (CD55), interferon regulatory factor 1 (IRF1), E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase pellino homolog 1 (PELI1), solute carrier family 7 member 5 (SLC7A5) and prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2 (PTGS2), which were predominantly enriched in pathways related to immune cell differentiation, chemotaxis, and inflammatory responses. At the immune cell level, lymphoid cells in bone metastatic lesions showed activation of stress response and apoptotic pathways, whereas myeloid cells demonstrated significant activation of cytokine/chemokine signaling and inflammation-related pathways. An immune-regulatory score based on CXCL17, CD55, IRF1, PELI1, SLC7A5, and PTGS2 was constructed. In the TCGA training cohort, the median OS of 41 patients with a high immune-regulatory score was 23.1 months (95%CI: 17.5-28.7), which was significantly shorter than that of patients with a low score [58.5 months (95%CI: 43.0-73.9), P<0.001]. In the independent Asian cohort of 93 EGFR-mutant lung adenocarcinoma patients, the median OS of 46 patients with a high immune-regulatory score was 85.3 months (95%CI: 80.0-not reached), while the median OS in the low-score group was not reached, with a statistically significant difference (P=0.014). Conclusions: Bone metastasis is an adverse prognostic factor for progression-free survival in lung adenocarcinoma patients treated with third-generation EGFR-TKI. Bone metastasis lesions exhibit a distinct immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment in EGFR-mutant advanced lung adenocarcinoma, in which upregulation of immune regulatory genes in cancer cells and dysfunction of immune cells may constitute a potential mechanism underlying resistance to third-generation EGFR-TKI.
Alpha1,6-fucosyltransferase (FUT8) biosynthesizes core fucose on N-glycans, which plays essential roles in various biological processes, including immunity and development. Although FUT8 is a Golgi-resident type II membrane protein, it is also secreted by an unknown mechanism. Here, we demonstrate that signal peptide peptidase (SPP) and signal peptide peptidase-like 3 (SPPL3), members of an intramembrane protease family, both cleave FUT8 for secretion. Knockout of SPP or SPPL3 in cells partially impaired FUT8 secretion, and double KO led to more drastic impairment in secretion, indicating that SPP and SPPL3 independently cleave FUT8. Sequencing analysis revealed that the N terminus of FUT8 in the media was mapped in the stem region, which is far from the expected cleavage site for SPP/SPPL3, suggesting that FUT8 undergoes two-step proteolytic processing, initially by SPP/SPPL3 and subsequently by another protease. Moreover, glycoproteomics suggested that the substrate glycoprotein preference of FUT8 was altered by knocking out SPP or SPPL3, highlighting the importance of FUT8 shedding in core fucosylation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) is a bioactive signaling lipid that regulates cellular processes, including growth, survival, differentiation, and metabolic homeostasis. LPA signals through its G-protein-coupled receptor, LPA receptor 1 (LPAR1), to modulate pathways controlling cellular signaling and metabolism. Viruses rely on cellular metabolism for efficient replication, and lipids function at nearly every stage in virus replication. Using Coxsackievirus B3 (CVB3) as a model, we performed global metabolomic analysis of infected Huh7 cells and identified lipid classes altered upon infection. Using small-molecule inhibitors targeting lipids, we identified LPA signaling as a key factor in CVB3 infection. Inhibiting LPA signaling with AM095 or via siRNA knockdown reduces CVB3 infection by over 100-fold. We find that LPA mediates CVB3 genome replication. Mechanistically, LPA signaling through LPAR1 facilitates cellular lipid synthesis by regulating AMPK and downstream enzymes, including fatty acid synthase (FASN) and acetyl-CoA carboxylase 1 (ACC1). In AM095-treated cells, lipid droplets are depleted, and cells exhibit a quiescent-like phenotype. Replenishing lipids fully rescues viral replication, indicating that LPA's proviral function is to facilitate lipid synthesis through AMPK signaling. These findings identify LPA-LPAR1 signaling as a regulator of host lipid metabolism that supports CVB3 replication, revealing a metabolic axis for antiviral intervention.IMPORTANCECellular metabolism supports virus infection by providing energy and the building blocks for virus replication. During viral infection, cellular metabolism changes drastically, and we find that lipids are among the most significantly changed metabolites during infection with Coxsackievirus B3, a picornavirus. We used metabolomics to characterize changes in metabolites in infected cells, and we followed up on these data with a drug screen with molecules targeting cellular lipid pathways. We identified lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) signaling as a major regulator of Coxsackievirus infection, supporting viral genome replication via lipid synthesis. This study underscores the importance of lipids in viral infection, uncovers new mechanisms by which LPA signals, and provides new insight into LPA's function in Coxsackievirus infection.
In a phase 2 trial (NCT04308681), treatment with admilparant (BMS-986278), an oral lysophosphatidic acid receptor 1 (LPA1) antagonist, reduced lung function decline in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) or progressive pulmonary fibrosis (PPF). In this exploratory analysis, we evaluated post-treatment changes in circulating biomarkers of lung fibrosis to elucidate mechanisms of admilparant action.Patients with IPF or PPF were randomized 1:1:1 to receive twice-daily admilparant (30 or 60 mg) or placebo for 26 weeks; background antifibrotics were allowed. The IPF and PPF cohorts were analyzed separately. Changes from baseline (CfB) in serum proteins associated with epithelial injury, inflammation, and fibrosis were measured by quantitative immunoassays at 4, 12, and 26 weeks, and compared between patients who received admilparant versus placebo. Pharmacodynamic biomarker changes were evaluated by clinical response status at week 26. Plasma samples from patients with IPF were assessed post hoc by SomaScan v4.1 proteomics assay. Statistical evaluations used linear mixed-effects models.In the IPF cohort (n=276), nine serum proteins showed significant CfB (p<0.05) at week 26 in patients treated with 60-mg admilparant versus placebo, including increased adiponectin, MMIF, CD163, CEA, and ENRAGE, and decreased markers of epithelial injury and fibrosis (CA-125/MUC16, MMP-7, TN-C, PRO-FIB). In the PPF cohort (n=116), significant differences at week 26 (p<0.05) were observed for 11 serum proteins, including increased CEA and decreased periostin, IL6Rβ, CD163, KIM-1, multiple inflammatory markers (YKL-40, VCAM-1, PECAM-1, ferritin), and collagen degradation markers (C3M and C4M). Two serum proteins, CA-125 and TN-C, showed significantly greater CfB (p<0.05) in responders compared with non-responders in the IPF cohort. Plasma proteomic analysis identified differential expression (adjusted p<0.1) of adiponectin, CKMT1A, ANGPTL3, PDCD1LG2, and IGFBP6 at week 26 in patients with IPF treated with 60-mg admilparant versus placebo.Treatment with 60-mg admilparant improved circulating biomarkers associated with epithelial injury and fibrosis in IPF, and with inflammation, fibrosis, and collagen degradation in PPF. Proteomic analysis identified additional biomarkers associated with mitochondrial and metabolic pathways in IPF. These findings expand our understanding of potential mechanisms of LPA1 antagonism with admilparant and identify biomarkers that may help evaluate treatment response and disease activity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (CPVT) is an inherited, stress-provoked arrhythmia that can precipitate life-threatening ventricular fibrillation, syncope, or sudden cardiac death. Although most CPVT cases arise from pathogenic variants in the cardiac ryanodine receptor gene (RYR2), data on trauma-triggered episodes in children remain scarce.A previously healthy 18-month-old Chinese boy suffered cardiopulmonary arrest after falling from a chair. Following return of spontaneous circulation, he developed acute heart failure and polymorphic ventricular tachycardia. During the acute phase, analgo-sedation, invasive mechanical ventilation, targeted temperature management, and veno-arterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) were instituted. Subsequent genetic analysis revealed a de novo missense variant in RYR2, leading to a diagnosis of CPVT. Long-term oral propranolol was initiated, and no further arrhythmic episodes have been observed to date.For previously healthy children who experience cardiac arrest or syncope triggered by minor trauma, CPVT should be strongly suspected. Targeted diagnostic evaluation and early genetic testing are warranted to facilitate timely diagnosis. Additionally, ECMO support should be considered when conventional resuscitative measures fail and life-threatening hemodynamic instability occurs.© 2026. The Author(s).
Carbon monoxide poisoning (COP) induces systemic hypoxia and oxidative stress-related injury, leading to myocardial injury and persistent cardiac dysfunction. However, reliable biomarkers for monitoring long-term cardiac sequelae and therapeutic responses remain lacking. Extracellular vesicles (EVs), which reflect the molecular status of their cells of origin, may serve as candidate biomarkers for organ-specific injury. This study investigated whether cardiac EV proteins capture COP-induced myocardial and mitochondrial dysfunction and reflect the therapeutic effects of hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) therapy.A rat model of COP was established with or without HBO treatment. Cardiac function was assessed by echocardiography, and myocardial injury was evaluated using histological, ultrastructural, and biochemical analyses. Cardiac-enriched EVs isolated from ex vivo whole-heart perfusate were used for global proteomic profiling. Candidate differentially abundant proteins were analyzed with emphasis on pathways related to mitochondrial dynamics, mitochondrial energy metabolism, calcium handling, and myocardial contractility. Key EV-associated and tissue proteins were further validated, and selected candidates were examined in serum-derived EVs as preliminary targeted circulating EV validation.COP induced significant cardiac dysfunction, as evidenced by reduced ejection fraction and fractional shortening, together with histological myocardial injury, all of which were attenuated by HBO treatment. Proteomic analysis demonstrated that COP reshaped the cardiac EV proteome in a manner consistent with mitochondrial abnormalities, altered calcium-handling protein profiles, and impaired myocardial contractile function. These EV proteomic alterations were enriched in pathways related to mitochondrial dynamics, calcium signaling, and cardiac contractile regulation. Specifically, COP was associated with dysregulation of mitochondrial dynamics regulators, including optic atrophy type 1 (Opa1) and mitochondrial fission protein 1 (FIS1), as well as calcium-handling proteins such as ryanodine receptor 2 (Ryr2) and phospholamban (Pln). Ultrastructural and biochemical analyses showed mitochondrial cristae disruption, altered mitochondrial fusion-fission protein profiles, mitophagy-related protein changes, and pyroptosis-associated signaling in cardiac tissue following COP, whereas HBO mitigated these abnormalities. Notably, EV-associated Opa1 and FIS1 were associated with COP-related alterations in mitochondrial dynamic balance, whereas EV-associated Ryr2 and Pln were associated with impaired myocardial contractile parameters. Additional analysis of EV proteins related to mitochondrial function and ATP energy production further supported COP-associated mitochondrial energy metabolism-related protein remodeling. Targeted analysis of serum-derived EVs further showed that selected calcium-handling proteins, including Ryr2 and Pln, were detectable in circulating EVs and exhibited COP-associated changes consistent with cardiac tissue alterations. These findings support selected cardiac-enriched EV proteins as candidate molecular readouts of COP-associated myocardial, mitochondrial, and contractile abnormalities.Cardiac EV proteomic remodeling reflects COP-associated mitochondrial and contractile abnormalities and captures the therapeutic effects of HBO. These findings identify cardiac-enriched EV proteins as candidate molecular readouts of myocardial injury and treatment response, providing a cardiac-enriched EV discovery framework for future blood-based biomarker development. The observed alterations in mitochondrial dynamics-, mitochondrial energy metabolism-, and calcium-handling-related proteins provide hypothesis-generating insight into molecular pathways associated with COP-induced cardiac dysfunction. Further validation using circulating EV proteomics, biomarker classifier analyses, and dedicated redox proteomics will be required to establish clinical utility and redox-regulated mechanistic relevance.© 2026. The Author(s).
Catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (CPVT) is a potentially life-threatening arrhythmic disorder typically treated with beta-blockers and, occasionally, with flecainide.All patients underwent genetic testing, electrocardiogram, echocardiogram, and exercise testing. Ventricular arrhythmias were assessed using qualitative and quantitative scoring systems. Flecainide dosing was progressively titrated, and follow-up extended from 2007 to 2024.Among 235 genetically confirmed carriers of the RyR2 (ryanodine receptor 2) p.Gly357Ser mutation, 32 required combination therapy with beta-blockers and flecainide (age at diagnosis 18 [1-55] years; age at flecainide initiation 32 [15-66] years; 50% male). Forty-seven percent had an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD). Flecainide was indicated for exercise-induced ventricular arrhythmias despite beta-blocker therapy, and the median treatment duration was 7.3 years. All patients received propranolol (median dose 65 mg/day). Flecainide (median dose 100 mg/day) was well tolerated, with no syncope or stress-induced symptoms. Before flecainide, five patients (16%) experienced ventricular arrhythmic events recorded by the ICD, including two requiring appropriate shocks; no events occurred after treatment initiation. Both qualitative (2.07 ± 0.77 vs. 1.22 ± 1.08, p < 0.001) and quantitative (69.78 ± 83.17 vs. 15.29 ± 5.53, p < 0.001) arrhythmic scores improved significantly. Additionally, maximum heart rate and the percentage of age-predicted maximum heart rate were significantly reduced, while metabolic equivalents increased significantly (12.3 ± 3.8 vs. 14.7 ± 7.5; p = 0.010).In CPVT patients, the addition of flecainide to beta-blocker therapy was associated with a significant reduction in arrhythmic burden and improvement in exercise-related parameters during long-term follow-up.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cardiovascular Electrophysiology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
We describe the discovery and characterization of PIPE-791, a potent and brain-penetrant lysophosphatidic acid receptor 1 (LPAR1) antagonist with slow association and dissociation kinetics. SAR studies initiated from a literature lead (13) led to the identification of compound 21 that possessed a unique urea scaffold responsible for slow but tight binding to LPAR1. Further optimizations that improved PK and metabolic profiles led to the discovery of PIPE-791. PIPE-791 efficiently traversed the BBB in multiple preclinical species and was efficacious in preclinical models of neuroinflammatory disorders. PIPE-791 possessed excellent ADME properties and was well-tolerated in 28 day GLP (Good Laboratory Practice) toxicity studies in rats and minipigs at doses up to 1000 mg/kg/day. Based on these results and a comprehensive first-in-human enabling preclinical data package, PIPE-791 was advanced into clinical development, including an ongoing trial in subjects with chronic osteoarthritis pain or chronic lower back pain (NCT6810245).
Sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 3 (S1PR3), a receptor of sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P), participates in cancer progression. However, no study has investigated the S1PR3 expression in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC).The S1PR3 expression in patients with PDAC and its role in predicting PDAC were investigated.We investigated the tissue and serum levels of S1PR3 in patients with PDAC by using immunohistochemistry and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), respectively. Silencing RNA (siRNA) was used to inhibit the expression of S1PR3 in the PDAC cell line, after which the invasion ability of the cells and the release of inflammatory factors from the cells were evaluated by a Transwell assay and flow cytometry analysis, respectively.Decreased S1PR3 expression in human PDAC tissues was significantly correlated with distant metastasis. Similarly, the ELISA results revealed that the serum S1PR3 concentrations in patients with PDAC (3.94 ± 0.47 ng/ml) were clearly lower than those in the controls (8.40 ± 0.63 ng/ml) (P < 0.001). In addition, serum S1PR3 levels clearly predict PDAC. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) for S1PR3 was 0.79, with 74.24% sensitivity and 71.29% specificity. The area under the curve (AUC) for the combination of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and carbohydrate antigen 199 (CA199) for S1PR3 was 0.97, with 91.43% sensitivity and 89.66% specificity, which was better than those of either the alone or pairwise combinations. Notably, cell experiments revealed that silencing S1PR3 promoted PDAC cell invasion and increased the levels of interleukin-4 (IL-4), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-17A (IL-17A) and interferon gamma (IFN-γ) in the cell culture medium.Our results demonstrated that the downregulation or loss of S1PR3 expression might be used for the diagnosis of PDAC and is closely associated with the malignant progression of PDAC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42416401 is a review article
Chronic pain affects approximately one fifth of people worldwide and displays a huge burden for health care institutions. Some chronic pain conditions have a higher prevalence in women than men. Previous studies related these sex-specific differences to sex-hormone receptor activation and interaction with pain-related receptors like the transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1). Here, especially estrogen seems to play a crucial role. While the role of estrogen receptor alpha and beta in modulating TRPV1 has already been studied, the interplay of the membrane-bound and G-protein -coupled estrogen receptor (GPER1) with nociceptor-associated ion channels is still unknown. The study at hand focuses on the establishment of a human induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) -based nociceptor model to unravel the effect of GPER1 activation on nociceptor excitability. Therefore, a human dermal fibroblast cell line was successfully reprogrammed into the iPSC line BO-VC1 and subsequently differentiated into nociceptors expressing GPER1 besides TRPV1 and the Twik-related spinal cord potassium channel (TRESK). The activation of GPER1 by its specific agonist G-1 led to significantly reduced action potential firing rates and TRPV1-mediated calcium influx. In addition, GPER1 was found to downregulate TRPV1-mediated ion currents upon G-1 treatment in a human embryonic kidney cell -based model. Our findings support the hypothesis that GPER1 activation silences neuronal excitability in nociceptors, probably being a candidate for future research focusing on targeted pain modulation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Vulvar squamous cell carcinoma (VSCC), while relatively rare, is associated with significant morbidity. Activation of G-protein coupled estrogen receptor 1 (GPER1), which has a tumor-suppressing effect in VSCC, leads to reduced expression of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1). PAI-1, a key regulator of the plasminogen activation system, is overexpressed in various cancers and is linked to poor prognosis. Its role and potential as a therapeutic target in VSCC remain poorly explored. This study investigated the effects of the specific PAI-1 inhibitor tiplaxtinin (PAI-039, TPX) on the aggressive behavior of VSCC cells in vitro.Expression of PAI-1 was verified by western blot. The effects of TPX treatment on viability, proliferation, migration, and invasion of A431 and Cal-39 VSCC cells were assessed using AlamarBlue, crystal violet, gap closure, and Boyden chamber assays, respectively. Apoptosis was examined using the Annexin V/propidium iodide (PI) assay.Both VSCC cell lines showed PAI-1 expression. With increasing TPX concentrations, viability and proliferation of the VSCC cells decreased significantly. Cell migration and invasion were both significantly reduced under treatment with the PAI-1 inhibitor. Apoptosis was not significantly induced by TPX.PAI-1 inhibitor TPX showed a strong inhibitory effect on VSCC cells, significantly reducing their viability, proliferation, migration and invasive capacity. This compound showed a strong ability to suppress important cell functions associated with cancer progression, making it a promising candidate for VSCC therapy to specifically inhibit growth and spread of VSCC.Copyright © 2026, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Prostate cancer ranks as the most diagnosed oncological disease in Slovak men and the third most common cause of their cancer related mortality. G-protein coupled estrogen receptor 1 (GPER1) is estrogen receptor mediating fast non-genomic estrogen signaling and shown potential as therapeutic target for later stages of the disease and in chemoprevention. However, little is currently known about the impact of genetic variability in the GPER1 gene on the prostate cancer risk and disease characteristics.Genomic DNA samples isolated from peripheral blood of 701 prostate cancer patients and 659 healthy men were used for the single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis. The presence of GPER1 SNPs (rs3808350, rs3808351, rs11544331) was determined by ARMS-PCR. GPER1 expression was quantified by semi-quantitative RT-PCR using mRNA isolated from prostate cancer tissues and using benign prostate hyperplasia tissues as a control. The GPER1 SNP rs3808350 was associated with a higher risk of developing prostate cancer, especially in patients with a Gleason score ≥ 7 and with nodal and distant metastases. No association was found between the rs3808351 and rs11544331 and prostate cancer. No significant changes in GPER1 expression were found.The GPER1 rs3808350 was associated with a higher risk of prostate cancer as well as with its characteristics and appears to influence prostate cancer susceptibility and aggressiveness. In the future, these findings could help in personalized treatment and prognosis determination.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42220428 is a review article
Osteoporosis, characterized by reduced bone mass and increased fracture risk, underscores the urgent need for novel anabolic therapies. G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are major drug targets, but the functions of adhesion GPCRs (aGPCRs) in bone remain largely unexplored. G-protein coupled receptor 125 (Gpr125) is an orphan aGPCR, and its role in osteoblast-mediated bone formation is entirely unknown.We employed lentiviral-mediated knockdown and overexpression of Gpr125 in primary mouse calvarial osteoblasts and bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs). Osteogenic and adipogenic differentiation were assessed by staining and marker analysis. Transcriptomic profiling (RNA-seq) and pathway analysis were used to identify downstream mechanisms, validated by rescue experiments with Gper1 overexpression, PI3K/AKT inhibitors (LY294002), and Wnt/β-catenin activation (Wnt3a CM). The osteogenic role of Gpr125 was tested in ovariectomized and aged mouse osteoporosis models via osteoblast-targeted adeno-associated virus (AAV) delivery.Gpr125 was highly expressed in osteoblasts, peaking during differentiation. Its knockdown severely impaired osteogenesis while promoting adipogenesis in vitro. Conversely, its overexpression enhanced bone formation. RNA-seq identified G protein-coupled estrogen receptor 1 (Gper1) as the key downstream target. We defined a novel signaling axis where Gpr125 upregulates Gper1, which activates PI3K/AKT signaling, leading to β-catenin stabilization and osteogenic transcription. Rescue experiments established a strict hierarchy: Gper1 overexpression fully rescued the osteogenic defect caused by Gpr125 loss, but not Gpr125 expression itself. PI3K inhibition blocked Gpr125-induced β-catenin activation and osteogenesis. β-catenin activation partially rescued osteogenesis but failed to restore upstream signaling. Critically, osteoblast-specific Gpr125 overexpression in vivo effectively ameliorated bone loss and reduced marrow adiposity in both postmenopausal and senile osteoporosis mouse models.Our study unveils a complete Gpr125-Gper1-PI3K/AKT-β-catenin signaling axis essential for osteoblast differentiation and bone formation. This work identifies the aGPCR Gpr125 as a novel positive regulator of bone anabolism and proposes the Gpr125-Gper1 axis as a promising therapeutic target for developing new treatments against osteoporosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Menopausal hypertension is a leading contributor to adverse health outcomes in women. Although heightened sympathetic activation is implicated in menopausal hypertension, the hypothalamic mechanisms underlying increased blood pressure during ovarian senescence and how this compares to males are not well understood. In this study, treatment with 4-vinylcyclohexene diepoxide (VCD) was used to induce a form of accelerated ovarian failure that parallels the hormonal trajectory of post-menopause (post-AOF). In post-AOF mice, hypertension resulting from 14-day angiotensin II (AngII) infusion was associated with an increase in AMPA GluA1 receptor-mediated, but not NMDA receptor-mediated, currents in sympathoexcitatory neurons in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVN). Heightened GluA1 currents in hypertensive post-AOF mice appeared to be mediated by an uncoventional AMPA receptor-AKAP150-associated G-protein coupled estrogen receptor 1 (GPER1) signaling pathway. In male mice, the heightening of GluA1 signaling following hypertension also was dependent on AKAP150, but via the classical protein kinase A signaling pathway. Increased AMPA currents and hypertension were not affected by estrogen receptor beta agonists in post-AOF mice. These results show that both post-AOF and male mice show similar hypertensive responses to slow-pressor AngII but differ in GluA1-GPER1-mediated signaling pathways in the PVN. Moreover, the results in post-AOF mice contrast with prior reports of hypertensive female mice at an early stage of AOF comparable to perimenopause, suggesting that hypertension at early and late ovarian failure are associated with distinct hypothalamic ionotropic glutamate receptor-mediated signaling pathways.© 2026. The Author(s).
Estrogen plays pivotal roles in regulating bone formation and mineralization via estrogen receptors. Although the expression of G protein-coupled estrogen receptor-1 (GPER-1) is widespread in eukaryotic cells like bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs), the precise mechanism by which this membrane receptor dictates BMSC differentiation has not been thoroughly established. In this study, we investigated whether GPER-1 regulates BMSC osteogenesis by modulating cytoskeletal dynamics and cellular rigidity via the Ras homolog family member A (RhoA) signaling pathway. Murine BMSCs were treated with the GPER-1 agonist G1, antagonist G15, or GPER-1-targeted siRNA, and changes in cell morphology, F-actin organization, focal adhesion, and stiffness were assessed using confocal and atomic force microscopy. RhoA activity was measured using pull-down assays, and osteogenic differentiation was evaluated based on Alizarin Red S (ARS) staining and osteogenic gene expression. Treatment with G1 significantly suppressed RhoA activation in BMSCs, reduced the thickness of actin filaments and number of focal adhesions, and diminished cellular tension. Importantly, GPER-1 activation reduced mineralization and osteogenic gene expression. Furthermore, treatment with G15 attenuated the inhibitory effects of G1. These findings indicate that GPER-1 negatively regulates the osteogenic differentiation of murine BMSCs by inhibiting RhoA-mediated cytoskeletal remodeling, associated with the RhoA/actin/cell rigidity axis. Collectively, our findings in this study reveal a previously unrecognized regulatory role of GPER-1 in bone biology and identify this receptor as a potential therapeutic target for modulating stem cell differentiation during skeletal regeneration and osteoporosis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42129836 is a review article
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most common malignancies worldwide and remains a major clinical challenge. Periplocin, a major bioactive component of the traditional Chinese herb Cortex periplocae, has recently been reported to be a potential anticancer drug. However, the mechanism of action is poorly understood. Here, we show that periplocin exhibits promising anticancer activity against CRC both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, periplocin promotes lysosomal damage and induces apoptosis in CRC cells. Notably, periplocin upregulates LGALS3 (galectin 3) by binding and preventing LGALS3 from Lys210 ubiquitination-mediated proteasomal degradation, leading to the induction of excessive lysophagy and resultant exacerbation of lysosomal damage. Inhibition of LGALS3-mediated lysophagy attenuates periplocin-induced lysosomal damage and growth inhibition in CRC cells, suggesting a critical role of lysophagy in the anticancer effects of periplocin. Taken together, our results reveal a novel link between periplocin and the lysophagy machinery, and indicate periplocin as a potential therapeutic option for the treatment of CRC.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ACACA/ACC1: acetyl-CoA carboxylase alpha; AMPK: adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase; AO: Acridine orange; ATG5: autophagy related 5; ATG7: autophagy related 7; CALM: calmodulin; CHX: cycloheximide; CRC: colorectal cancer; CQ: chloroquine; CTSB: cathepsin B; CTSD: cathepsin D; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complex required for transport; LAMP1: lysosomal associated membrane protein 1; LMP: lysosomal membrane permeabilization; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MCOLN1/TRPML1: mucolipin TRP cation channel 1; MKI67/Ki-67: marker of proliferation Ki-67; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; P2RX4/P2X4: purinergic receptor P2X 4; PARP1/PARP: poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1; PRKAA/AMPKα: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TFEB: transcription factor EB; TRIM16: tripartite motif containing 16.
Extracellular adenosine-5'-triphosphate (ATP) acts as an import signaling molecule mediating inflammation via purinergic P2 receptors. ATP binds to the purinergic receptor P2X4 and promotes inflammation via increased expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Because of the central role of inflammation, we assumed a functional contribution of the ATP-P2X4-axis in atherosclerosis. Expression of P2X4 was increased in atherosclerotic aortic arches from low-density lipoprotein receptor-deficient mice being fed a high cholesterol diet as assessed by real-time polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry. To investigate the functional role of P2X4 in atherosclerosis, P2X4-deficient mice were crossed with low-density lipoprotein receptor-deficient mice and fed high cholesterol diet. After 16 weeks, P2X4-deficient mice developed smaller atherosclerotic lesions compared to P2X4-competent mice. Furthermore, intravital microscopy showed reduced ATP-induced leukocyte rolling at the vessel wall in P2X4-deficient mice. Mechanistically, we found a reduced RNA expression of CC chemokine ligand 2 (CCL-2), C-X-C motif chemokine-1 (CXCL-1), C-X-C motif chemokine-2 (CXCL-2), Interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα) as well as a decreased nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3)-inflammasome priming in atherosclerotic plaques from P2X4-deficient mice. Moreover, bone marrow derived macrophages isolated from P2X4-deficient mice revealed a reduced ATP-mediated release of CCL-2, CC chemokine ligand 5 (CCL-5), Interleukin-1β (IL-1β) and IL-6. Additionally, P2X4-deficient mice shared a lower proportion of pro-inflammatory Ly6Chigh monocytes and a higher proportion of anti-inflammatory Ly6Clow monocytes, and expressend less endothelial VCAM-1. Finally, increased P2X4 expression in human atherosclerotic lesions from carotid endarterectomy was found, indicating the importance of potential implementations of this study's findings for human atherosclerosis. Collectively, P2X4 deficiency reduced experimental atherosclerosis, plaque inflammation and inflammasome priming, pointing to P2X4 as a potential therapeutic target in the fight against atherosclerosis.© 2022. The Author(s).
Yeonsan Ogye (OGYE; Gallus gallus domesticus) is a rare indigenous chicken breed that inhabits the Korean Peninsula. This breed has completely black coloring, including plumage, skin, eyes, beak, and internal organs. Despite these unique morphological characteristics, the population of OGYE has declined without in-depth research into their genome research. Therefore, this study aimed to compare the whole genome of OGYE to 12 other chicken populations, including ancestral breed, commercial breeds, Chinese indigenous breeds, and Korean native chickens. We focused on revealing the selection signature of OGYE, which has occurred through environmental pressures in the Korean Peninsula. Genome-wide selection analysis has identified local adaptation traits, such as egg development, that contribute to fetal viability and innate immune response to prevent viral and microbes infection in OGYE. In particular, SPP1 (Secreted Phosphoprotein 1), HSP90AA1 (Heat Shock Protein 90 Alpha Family Class A Member 1), and P2RX4 (Purinergic Receptor P2X 4) could have considerable involvement in egg development and RNASEL (Ribonuclease L), BRIP1 (BRCA1 Interacting Protein C-terminal Helicase 1), and TLR4 (Toll-Like Receptor 4) are crucial for the determination of the innate immune response. This study revealed the unique genetic diversity of OGYE at the genome-wide level. Furthermore, we emphasized the sustainable management of genetic resources and formulated breeding strategies for livestock on the Korean Peninsula.Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Varicocele is a common disease of the male reproductive system. Morinda (M.) officinalis is a Chinese herbal medicine, whose main bioactive component M. officinalis polysaccharide (MOP) is believed to have a therapeutic effect on varicocele; however, the underlying molecular mechanisms of this effect are poorly understood. In the present study, 24 rats were randomly divided into three groups: i) Control group; ii) experimental varicocele group; and iii) 300 mg/kg MOP administration group. Analysis of mRNA and long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) expression in rat left testicular tissue was performed. The results suggested that a total of 144 mRNAs and 63 lncRNAs, 63 mRNAs and 148 lncRNAs, and 173 mRNAs and 54 lncRNAs were differentially expressed between the varicocele non-treatment and control groups, the varicocele treatment and varicocele non-treatment groups, and the varicocele treatment and control groups, respectively. Following validation by reverse transcription-quantitative PCR, the Yip1 domain family member 7 (YIPF7) gene was identified as a key mediator of varicocele pathogenesis and repair effect of MOP. Additionally, genes such as purinergic receptor P2X 4 (P2RX4), transmembrane protein 225B (TMEM255B) and Wnt family member 9B (WNT9B) were confirmed to be differentially expressed between the varicocele non-treatment and control groups. We hypothesize that TMEM255B could be a potential novel diagnostic biomarker for varicocele; WNT9B and P2RX4 likely play notable roles in the pathophysiology of the disease through the Wnt signaling pathway and regulation of transmembrane ion channels, respectively. In summary, the present study delineated the molecular mechanisms underlying varicocele pathogenesis and the therapeutic effect of MOP, identified a potential novel diagnostic marker and therapeutic target for varicocele, and provided feasible directions for further studies in the future.Copyright: © Zhang et al.
Thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA) is characterized by the dilation of the aorta and is associated with poor prognosis if not diagnosed and treated early. In this context, the identification of biomarkers regarding the TAA diagnosis, monitoring and prognosis is crucial. The purpose of the current study was to investigate the differential gene expression profile of the cadherin 5 (CDH5 or VE-Cadherin) gene network in patients with TAA, to propose novel biomarkers.In silico techniques were used to construct the interactome of the CDH5 network, identify the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in TAA as compared to healthy controls, and uncover the related molecular functions and the regulating miRNAs.Transcriptomic data of one microarray dataset were included, incorporating 43 TAA and 43 control samples. Eight DEGs were identified; 7 were up-regulated and 1 was down-regulated. A molecular signature of 8 genes (CDH5; Calcitonin Receptor-Like Receptor-CALCRL; Activin A Receptor-Like Type 1-ACVRL1, Tryptophanyl-TRNA Synthetase 1-WARS; Junction Plakoglobin-JUP, Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase Receptor Type J-PTPRJ, Purinergic Receptor P2X 4-P2RX4, Kinase Insert Domain Receptor-KDR) were identified as biomarkers associated with TAA. PTPRJ was associated with excellent discrimination and calibration in predicting TAA presentation. Positive correlations were reported regarding the expression of CDH5-CALCRL, CDH5-ACVRL1, CDH5-WARS and CDH5-PTPRJ. Finally, gene set enrichment analysis indicated the molecular functions and miRNA families (hsa-miR-296-5p, hsa-miR-6836-5p, hsa-miR-6132, hsa-miR-27a-5p and hsa-miR-6773-5p) relevant to the 8 biomarkers.These outcomes propose an 8-gene molecular panel associated with TAA.© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery. All rights reserved.
The activation of glial cells and its possible mechanism play an extremely important role in understanding the pathophysiological process of some clinical diseases, and catestatin (CST) is involved in regulating this activation. In this project, we found that CST could enhance the activation of satellite glial cells (SGCs) and microglial cells and that the expression of P2X4 was increased; the co-expression of the P2X4 receptor with glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and the P2X4 receptor with CD11b was also increased significantly in glial cells of the ATP + CST group, and TNF-α and IL-1β also showed a rising trend; the expression of phosphorylated ERK1/2 was also increased in the ATP + CST group. In summary, we conclude that CST could enhance ATP-induced activation of SGCs and microglial cells mediated by the P2X4 receptor and that the ERK1/2 signaling pathway may be involved in this activation process.
The adaptive immune response has a role in Parkinson's disease (PD). Patients with LRRK2 or GBA1 mutations often exhibit distinct clinical characteristics.To evaluate the involvement of adaptive immune response genes in three PD groups: GBA1-PD, LRRK2-PD, and non-carrier (NC)-PD.Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) associated with PD were identified using four datasets. Of them, adaptive immune response genes were evaluated using whole-genome-sequencing of 201 unrelated Ashkenazi-Jewish (AJ) PD patients. Potential pathogenic variants were identified, and P2RX7 variants were assessed in 1200 AJ-PD patients. Burden analysis of rare variants (allele frequencies (AF) < 0.01) on disease risk, and association analyses of common variants (AF ≥ 0.01) with disease risk and age-at-onset (AAO) were conducted. AFs were compared to AJ-non-neuro cases reported in gnomAD. Variants associated with PD were further examined in an independent AJ cohort from AMP-PD.Of the four adaptive immune DEGs identified, CD8B2, P2RX7, IL27RA, and ZC3H12A, three common variants in P2RX7 were statistically significant: Tyr155His was associated with NC-PD (allelic OR = 1.15, p = 0.015) ; Arg276His was associated with LRRK2-PD (allelic OR = 2.10, p = 0.037), while Glu496Ala was associated with earlier AAO in LRRK2-PD (p = 0.014). Burden analysis showed no significant effect on PD-risk. In the AMP-PD cohort, odds ratios of the two risk variants were similar to the primary cohort, but did not reach significance, probably due to small control sample size (n = 263).Common variants within P2RX7 are likely associated with PD-risk and earlier AAO. These findings further suggest P2RX7's involvement in PD and its potential interplay with LRRK2.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common form of primary liver cancer. HCC occurs people with chronic liver diseases. The purinergic receptor P2X 7 (P2RX7) is involved in tumor proliferation and growth. Also, P2RX7 is associated with tumor invasion and metastatic dissemination. High glucose utilization is important for the survival of various types of tumors. However, the role of P2RX7 in glucose metabolism and cellular survival of HCC remains unclear. Here, our results show that the gene and protein levels of P2RX7 were elevated in tumor cells of patients with HCC. The pharmacological inhibition of P2RX7 by A-804598, a selective P2RX7 antagonist, and genetic inhibition by P2RX7 knockdown suppressed the glycolytic activity by reduction of hexokinase 2 (HK2), a key enzyme of the glycolysis pathway, in human HCC cells. Also, both A-804598 treatment and P2RX7 knockdown induced cytotoxicity via inhibition of AKT activation which is critical for tumor cell survival in human HCC cells. Moreover, A-804598 treatment and P2RX7 knockdown increased cytotoxicity and caspase-3 activation in human HCC cells. These results suggest that inhibition of P2RX7 contributes to cytotoxicity by suppression of glycolysis and AKT activation in human HCC. [BMB Reports 2024; 57(10): 459-464].
Extracellular vesicle (EV) secretion is mediated by purinergic receptor P2X7 (P2RX7), an ATP-gated cation channel highly expressed in microglia. We have previously shown that administration of GSK1482160, a P2RX7 selective inhibitor, suppresses EV secretion from murine microglia and prevents tauopathy development, leading to the recovery of the hippocampal function in PS19 mice, expressing P301S tau mutant. It is yet unknown, however, whether the effect of GSK1482160 on EV secretion from glial cells is specifically regulated through P2RX7. Here we tested GSK1482160 on primary microglia and astrocytes isolated from C57BL/6 (WT) and P2rx7-/- mice and evaluated their EV secretion and phagocytotic activity of aggregated human tau (hTau) under ATP stimulation. GSK1482160 treatment and deletion of P2rx7 significantly reduced secretion of small and large EVs in microglia and astrocytes in both ATP stimulated or unstimulated condition as determined by nanoparticle tracking analysis, CD9 ELISA and immunoblotting of Tsg101 and Flotilin 1 using isolated EVs. GSK1482160 treatment had no effect on EV secretion from P2rx7 -/- microglia while we observed significant reduction in the secretion of small EVs from P2rx7 -/- astrocytes, suggesting its specific targeting of P2RX7 in EV secretion except small EV secretion from astrocytes. Finally, deletion of P2rx7 suppressed IL-1β secretion and phagocytosed misfolded tau from both microglia and astrocytes. Together, these findings show that GSK1482160 suppresses EV secretion from microglia and astrocytes in P2RX7-dependment manner, and P2RX7 critically regulates secretion of IL-1β and misfolded hTau, demonstrating as the viable target of suppressing EV-mediated neuroinflammation and tau propagation.© 2024 The Author(s). Journal of Extracellular Biology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Society for Extracellular Vesicles.
Ferroptosis is an iron-dependent cell death mechanism involving the accumulation of lipid peroxides. As a critical regulator, glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) has been demonstrated to be downregulated in epilepsy. However, the mechanism of ferroptosis in epilepsy remains unclear. In this study, bioinformatics analysis, analysis of epilepsy patient blood samples and cell and mouse experiments revealed strong associations among epilepsy, ferroptosis, microRNA-211-5p and purinergic receptor P2X 7 (P2RX7). P2RX7 is a nonselective ligand-gated homotrimeric cation channel, and its activation mainly increases neuronal activity during epileptic seizures. In our study, the upregulation of P2RX7 in epilepsy was attributed to the downregulation of microRNA (miR)-211-5p. Furthermore, P2RX7 has been found to regulate GPX4/HO-1 by alleviating lipid peroxidation induced by suppression of the MAPK/ERK signaling pathway in murine models. The dynamic decrease in miR-211-5p expression induces hypersynchronization and both nonconvulsive and convulsive seizures, and forebrain miR-211-5p suppression exacerbates long-lasting pentylenetetrazole-induced seizures. Additionally, in this study, induction of miR-211-5p expression or genetic-silencing of P2RX7 significantly reduced the seizure score and duration in murine models through the abovementioned pathways. These results suggest that the miR-211-5p/P2RX7 axis is a novel target for suppressing both ferroptosis and epilepsy.© 2024. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 37638395 is a review article
Few new therapeutics exist to target airway inflammation in mild-to-moderate asthma. Alveolar macrophages regulate airway inflammation by producing proresolving eicosanoids. We hypothesized that stimulation of the purinergic receptor P2X7 in macrophages from individuals with asthma produces eicosanoids associated with airway inflammation and resolution, and that these responses are predicted, in part, by P2X7 pore function. Study subjects were recruited in an Institutional Review Board (IRB)-approved study. Alveolar macrophages were recovered from bronchoalveolar lavage fluid following bronchoscopy. Purinergic receptor classification was performed using flow cytometry and fluorescent cell assay. Macrophages were stimulated in vitro and eicosanoids were measured via ELISA or enzyme immunoassay (EIA) in the presence and absence of P2X7-specific agonist [2'(3')-O-(4-Benzoylbenzoyl)adenosine-5'-triphosphate tri(triethylammonium) salt (Bz-ATP)] and antagonist (AZD9056). Functional P2X7 pore status was confirmed in a live cell assay using P2X7-specific agonists and antagonists. Alveolar macrophages produced increased quantities of the oxylipins lipoxin A4 (LXA4), resolvin D1 (RvD1), and 15(S)-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (15(S)-HETE) following stimulation with Bz-ATP compared with vehicle controls, responses that were attenuated in the presence of the P2X7-selective antagonist, AZD9056. LXA4 and RvD1 production was greatest at 1 h, whereas 15(S)-HETE was maximally produced 24 h. Prostaglandin E-2 and resolvin E1 were minimally produced by P2X7 activation, indicating differential signaling pathways involved in eicosanoid production in alveolar macrophages derived from individuals with asthma. The early production of the proresolving eicosanoids, LXA4 and resolvin D1, is regulated by P2X7, whereas generation of the proinflammatory eicosanoid, 15(S)-HETE, is only partially regulated through P2X7 signaling and reaches maximal production after the peak in proresolving eicosanoids.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Alveolar macrophages obtained from individuals with asthma produce soluble lipid mediators in response to P2X7 purinergic receptor signaling. Proinflammatory mediators may contribute to asthma exacerbations but proresolving mediators may help with resolution of asthma loss of control. These specialized proresolving lipid mediators may serve as future potential therapeutics for asthma exacerbation resolution and recovery.
CD40 expressed in Müller cells is a central driver of diabetic retinopathy. CD40 causes phospholipase Cγ1 (PLCγ1)-dependent ATP release in Müller cells followed by purinergic receptor (P2X7)-dependent production of proinflammatory cytokines in myeloid cells. In the diabetic retina, CD40 and P2X7 upregulate a broad range of inflammatory molecules that promote development of diabetic retinopathy. The molecular event downstream of CD40 that activates the PLCγ1-ATP-P2X7-proinflammatory cytokine cascade and promotes development of diabetic retinopathy is unknown. We hypothesise that disruption of the CD40-driven molecular events that trigger this cascade prevents/treats diabetic retinopathy in mice.B6 and transgenic mice with Müller cell-restricted expression of wild-type (WT) CD40 or CD40 with mutations in TNF receptor-associated factor (TRAF) binding sites were made diabetic using streptozotocin. Leucostasis was assessed using FITC-conjugated concanavalin A. Histopathology was examined in the retinal vasculature. Expression of inflammatory molecules and phospho-Tyr783 PLCγ1 (p-PLCγ1) were assessed using real-time PCR, immunoblot and/or immunohistochemistry. Release of ATP and cytokines were measured by ATP bioluminescence and ELISA, respectively.Human Müller cells with CD40 ΔT2,3 (lacks TRAF2,3 binding sites) were unable to phosphorylate PLCγ1 and release ATP in response to CD40 ligation, and could not induce TNF-α/IL-1β secretion in bystander myeloid cells. CD40-TRAF signalling acted via Src to induce PLCγ1 phosphorylation. Diabetic mice in which WT CD40 in Müller cells was replaced by CD40 ΔT2,3 failed to exhibit phosphorylation of PLCγ1 in these cells and upregulate P2X7 and TNF-α in microglia/macrophages. P2x7 (also known as P2rx7), Tnf-α (also known as Tnf), Il-1β (also known as Il1b), Nos2, Icam-1 (also known as Icam1) and Ccl2 mRNA were not increased in these mice and the mice did not develop retinal leucostasis and capillary degeneration. Diabetic B6 mice treated intravitreally with a cell-permeable peptide that disrupts CD40-TRAF2,3 signalling did not exhibit either upregulation of P2X7 and inflammatory molecules in the retina or leucostasis.CD40-TRAF2,3 signalling activated the CD40-PLCγ1-ATP-P2X7-proinflammatory cytokine pathway. Src functioned as a link between CD40-TRAF2,3 and PLCγ1. Replacing WT CD40 with CD40 ΔT2,3 impaired activation of PLCγ1 in Müller cells, upregulation of P2X7 in microglia/macrophages, upregulation of a broad range of inflammatory molecules in the diabetic retina and the development of diabetic retinopathy. Administration of a peptide that disrupts CD40-TRAF2,3 signalling reduced retinal expression of inflammatory molecules and reduced leucostasis in diabetic mice, supporting the therapeutic potential of pharmacological inhibition of CD40-TRAF2,3 in diabetic retinopathy.© 2022. The Author(s).
Bacillus subtilis is one of the most popular commercial probiotics used in farm animal production. However, its potential mechanisms are not very clear. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of dietary Bacillus subtilis on intestinal histomorphology, innate immunity, microbiota composition, transcriptomics, and related metabolomics. Twenty-four 48-week-old Lohman Pink-shell laying hens were randomly divided into two groups: a basic diet and the basic diet supplemented with Bacillus subtilis (0.5 g/kg) for a 9-week experiment. At the end of the experiment, tissues of the duodenum, ileum, and jejunum as well as cecal content of each bird were collected for microstructure, PCR, transcriptome, metabolome, and 16S rRNA analyses. The results showed that dietary Bacillus subtilis supplement had no effect on the intestinal microstructure. However, Bacillus subtilis increased mRNA expression of tight junction protein occludin (P < 0.05), while reduced mRNA expression of lipopolysaccharide-induced TNF factor (P < 0.01) in the duodenum. Moreover, transcriptomic results indicated that most of Bacillus subtilis supplement-induced differential genes were associated with inflammation and immunity, including cytochrome b-245 beta chain, transferrin, and purinergic receptor P2X 7, resulting in a decrease in Malondialdehyde level (P < 0.05) in the duodenum. In addition, at the genus level, Bacillus subtilis supplement enriched the potential beneficial bacteria, Candidatus_Soleaferrea (P = 0.02) but inhibited the harmful bacteria including Lachnospiraceae_FCS020_group, Ruminiclostridium, Lachnospiraceae_UCG-010, and Oxalobacter. Metabolomic results revealed that N-Acetylneuraminic acid and ADP were increased by fed Bacillus subtilis. These results suggest that dietary Bacillus subtilis could inhibit gut inflammation and improve antioxidative status and barrier integrity of the duodenum via regulating gut microbial composition in laying hens.Copyright © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Obesity is a metabolic chronic disease with important associated morbidities and mortality. Bariatric surgery is the most effective treatment for maintaining long-term weight loss in severe obesity and, consequently, for decreasing obesity-related complications, including chronic inflammation.To explore changes in components of the inflammasome machinery after bariatric surgery and their relation with clinical/biochemical parameters at baseline and 6 months after bariatric surgery.Twenty-two patients with morbid-obesity that underwent bariatric surgery (sleeve gastrectomy and Roux-en-Y gastric bypass) were included. Epidemiological/clinical/anthropometric/biochemical evaluation was performed at baseline and 6 months after bariatric surgery. Inflammasome components and inflammatory-associated factors [nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-like receptors (NLRs), inflammasome activation components, cytokines and inflammation/apoptosis-related components, and cell-cycle and DNA-damage regulators) were evaluated in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) at baseline and 6 months after bariatric surgery. Clinical molecular correlations/associations were analyzed. Functional parameters (lipid accumulation/viability/apoptosis) were analyzed in response to specific inflammasome components silencing in liver HepG2 cells).A profound dysregulation of inflammasome components after bariatric surgery was found, especially in NLRs and cell-cycle and DNA damage regulators. Several components were associated with baseline metabolic comorbidities including type 2 diabetes (C-C motif chemokine ligand 2/C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 1/sirtuin 1), hypertension (absent in melanoma 2/ASC/purinergic receptor P2X 7), and dyslipidemia [C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 3 (CXCL3)/NLR family pyrin domain containing (NLRP) 7) and displayed changes in their molecular profile 6 months after bariatric surgery. The gene expression fingerprint of certain factors NLR family CARD domain containing 4 (NLRC4)/NLRP12/CXCL3)/C-C motif chemokine ligand 8/toll-like receptor 4) accurately differentiated pre- and postoperative PBMCs. Most changes were independent of the performed surgical technique. Silencing of NLRC4/NLRP12 resulted in altered lipid accumulation, apoptosis rate, and cell viability in HepG2 cells.Bariatric surgery induces a profound alteration in the gene expression pattern of components of the inflammasome machinery in PBMCs. Expression and changes of certain inflammasome components are associated to baseline metabolic comorbidities, including type 2 diabetes, and may be related to the improvement and reversion of some obesity-related comorbidities after bariatric surgery.© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.
Truncated tryptophanyl-tRNA synthetase (mini-TrpRS), like any other aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases, canonically functions as a protein synthesis enzyme. Here we provide evidence for an additional signaling role of mini-TrpRS in the formation of monocyte-derived multinuclear giant cells (MGCs). Interferon-gamma (IFNγ) readily induced monocyte aggregation leading to MGC formation with paralleled marked upregulation of mini-TrpRS. Small interfering (si)RNA, targeting mini-TrpRS in the presence of IFNγ prevented monocyte aggregation. Moreover, blockade of mini-TrpRS, either by siRNA, or the cognate amino acid and decoy substrate D-Tryptophan to prevent mini-TrpRS signaling, resulted in a marked reduction in expression of the purinergic receptor P2X 7 (P2RX7) in monocytes activated by IFNγ. Our findings identify mini-TrpRS as a critical signaling molecule in a mechanism by which IFNγ initiates monocyte-derived giant cell formation.Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The role of T-box transcription factor 6 (TBX6), a developmental transcription factor, in tumor initiation and progression in colorectal cancer (CRC) remains unclear. The present study investigated the expression pattern, biological functions, and downstream transcriptional regulatory networks of TBX6 in CRC. Public databases, clinical cohorts, functional assays, xenograft models, and RNA sequencing coupled with Gene Ontology, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes, and protein-protein interaction analyses were used to define TBX6-associated molecular alterations. TBX6 was markedly upregulated in CRC tissues and cell lines, and its high expression was associated with advanced stage, lymph node metastasis, and poor survival. Functionally, TBX6 promoted proliferation, migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition in CRC cells in vitro, whereas TBX6 knockdown suppressed these malignant phenotypes and inhibited tumor growth with reduced proliferation and increased apoptosis in vivo. Transcriptomic analyses showed that TBX6 knockdown induced coordinated gene expression reprogramming and altered multiple tumor-related pathways. Protein-protein interaction analysis identified C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 14 (CXCL14), NOTUM, adrenoceptor α2A (ADRA2A), and melanin-concentrating hormone receptor 1 (MCHR1) as hub nodes within the TBX6-regulated network. Mechanistically, TBX6 knockdown regulated CXCL14 expression and attenuated Wnt/β-catenin signaling, findings that were further validated in xenograft tissues. These results indicate that TBX6 is aberrantly reactivated in CRC and promotes tumor progression through transcriptional network remodeling, suggesting that TBX6 may represent a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Acupuncture stimulation at the GB34 acupoint has been reported to alleviate motor dysfunction in Parkinson's disease (PD) by activating the lateral hypothalamic melanin concentrating hormone (MCH) neurons projecting to the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). MCH receptor 1 (MCHR1) signaling is also known to be essential for the anti-Parkinsonian effects of acupuncture. However, the cellular distribution of MCHR1 and its cell type-specific contributions to the therapeutic effects of acupuncture in PD remain largely unexplored. Here, we show that MCHR1 is expressed in both dopaminergic neurons and astrocytes within the SNpc, with higher expression in dopaminergic neurons. We further demonstrate that cell-type-specific gene-silencing of MCHR1 in either dopaminergic neurons or astrocytes significantly blocks acupuncture-induced motor recovery and dopaminergic neuron protection. These findings indicate that both neuronal and astrocytic MCHR1 contribute to the anti-Parkinsonian effects of acupuncture. Together, this study provides new insight into MCHR1 as a potential therapeutic target for PD.
AZD1979 is a melanin-concentrating hormone receptor 1 (MCHr1) antagonist, which was developed for obesity treatment, but clinical development was halted due to unanticipated liver toxicity. Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) variation influences hepatic energy metabolism and may underlie individual susceptibility to drug-induced mitotoxicity. Transmitochondrial cybrids offer a model to assess the impact of mtDNA variation on drug response against a constant nuclear background. This study assessed the mitotoxic potential of AZD1979 in HepG2 wild-type (WT) cells and HepG2 transmitochondrial cybrids representing distinct mtDNA haplogroups from the H and J haplogroup lineages. A 2-hour acute metabolic switch assay was performed in HepG2 WT cells and transmitochondrial cybrids to identify mitochondrial toxicity, with confirmatory Seahorse extracellular flux analysis. AZD1979 was identified as a potent mitotoxicant in HepG2 WT cells, inducing mitochondrial dysfunction prior to cell death. AZD1979 caused reductions in basal respiration, ATP-linked respiration, and spare respiratory capacity, and inhibited complex I-driven respiration. Cybrids displayed haplogroup-specific differences in susceptibility. Haplogroup J2b1g showed the highest sensitivity, while J1c1e, despite lacking spare respiratory capacity, was less susceptible. These findings highlight the role of mtDNA in shaping individual responses to mitochondrial toxicants and that transmitochondrial cybrid models could support early assessment of mitochondrial liability.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Melanin-concentrating hormone signalling pathways in the central nervous system are of significant clinical interest in treating appetite, sleep, and mood disorders. However, with the additional discovery of active MCH signalling pathways in peripheral tissues, knowing the degree to which cellular context influence MCH receptor function is increasingly important. In this study, we discovered MCH-mediated signalling responses that demonstrated bell-shaped dose response curves in multiple assays using both pre- and post-adipocyte 3T3-L1 models. MCH facilitated cell adhesion in pre-adipocytes, increased both the number and size of lipid droplets and inhibited lipolysis in adipocytes, with a maximum effective dose at 1 nM MCH. We hypothesize that the concentration of MCH cells are exposed to influences G protein bias at MCHR1 and/or signal switching to an unidentified pathway. Furthermore, this study elucidates the importance of hormone concentration when measuring GPCR signalling pathways in cell culture and tissue models.
Long-term stress contributes to depressive disorders, for which monoamine-based treatments are often inadequate. This study identifies neuronal primary cilia as critical regulators of stress-induced depressive-like behavior. In mice, short-term restraint stress (3 days) reduced cilia length and the proportion of cilia-bearing neurons within the frontal association cortex (FrA). These changes were reversible, with ciliary dynamics recovering after 2 weeks of normal housing, and depressive-like behavior being absent. In contrast, long-term stress (3 weeks) caused persistent cilia shortening and reduced prevalence in the FrA, accompanied by depressive-like behavior. Unlike for short-term stress, these changes persisted even after a 2-week recovery period. However, following a 10-week recovery period, both ciliary morphology and prevalence returned to control levels, along with a resolution of depressive-like behaviors. These findings strongly implicate ciliary dynamics as critical determinants of behavioral outcomes. We found that melanin-concentrating hormone receptor 1 (MCHR1) was predominantly expressed in FrA primary cilia, and restraint stress upregulated MCH expression. Ex vivo MCH treatment recapitulated the stress-induced ciliary shortening and reduced cilia prevalence in FrA brain slices. These findings suggest that MCH-MCHR1 signaling mediates ciliary changes under stress and that the failure to restore ciliary structure may be a key factor in the development of depressive-like behavior. Given the non-synaptic pathways of ciliary signaling, this pathway may represent a novel therapeutic target, especially for treatment-resistant depression.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40081601 is a review article
Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) receptor 1 (MCHR1), a G protein-coupled receptor, is poised for interaction with its ligands on the plasma membrane. Analyses of MCHR1 knockout mice suggest that this receptor could be a therapeutic target for the treatment of appetite disorders, glucose metabolism, psychiatric disorders, and inflammation. Binding of MCH to MCHR1 initiates calcium signaling, which is subsequently attenuated through receptor internalization. However, the ultimate destiny of the receptor post-internalization remains unexplored. In this study, we report the extracellular secretion of MCHR1 via exosomes. The recruitment of MCHR1 to exosomes occurs subsequent to its internalization, which is induced by stimulation with the ligand MCH. Although a highly glycosylated form of MCHR1, potentially representing a mature form, is selectively recruited to exosomes, the MCHR1 transferred into other cells does not exhibit functionality. The truncation of MCHR1 at the C-terminus not only impairs its response to MCH but also hinders its recruitment to exosomes. These findings imply that functional MCHR1 could be secreted extracellularly via exosomes, a process that may represent a mechanism for the termination of intracellular MCHR1 signaling.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The primary cilium is a structural organelle present in most mammalian cells. Primary cilia are enriched with a unique protein repertoire distinct from that of the cytosol and the plasma membrane. Such a highly organized microenvironment creates effective machinery for translating extracellular cues into intracellular signals. G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are key receptors in sensing environmental stimuli transmitted via a second messenger into a cellular response. Recent data has demonstrated that a limited number of non-olfactory GPCRs, including melanin-concentrating hormone receptor 1 (MCHR1), are preferentially localized to ciliary membranes of several mammalian cell types, including neuronal cells. Evidence was accumulated to support the functional importance of ciliary-GPCR signaling accompanying ciliary structural changes using cilia-specific cell and molecular biology techniques. Thus, cilia are now considered to function as a unique sensory platform for the integration of GPCR signaling and various cytoplasmic domains. Dissociated neurons expressing ciliary-GPCRs can be a useful tool for examining ciliary dynamics. However, losing preexisting neuronal connectivity may alter neuronal ciliary morphology, such as abnormal elongation. Brain slices prepared under ex vitro conditions are a powerful approach that maintains the cytoarchitecture, enabling researchers to have accurate control over experimental conditions and to study individual cells from subregions of the brain. Here, we present a detailed description of our novel modified method for organotypic culture of rat brain slice and a validated immunostaining protocol to characterize ciliary-GPCR dynamics in coupling with neuropeptides or aminergic activation.Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Primary cilia are cellular appendages critical for diverse types of Signaling. They are found on most cell types, including cells throughout the CNS. Cilia preferentially localize certain G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) and are critical for mediating the signaling of these receptors. Several of these neuronal GPCRs have recognized roles in feeding behavior and energy homeostasis. Cell and model systems, such as Caenorhabditis elegans and Chlamydomonas, have implicated both dynamic GPCR cilia localization and cilia length and shape changes as key for signaling. It is unclear whether mammalian ciliary GPCRs use similar mechanisms in vivo and under what conditions these processes may occur. Here, we assess two neuronal cilia GPCRs, melanin-concentrating hormone receptor 1 (MCHR1) and neuropeptide-Y receptor 2 (NPY2R), as mammalian model ciliary receptors in the mouse brain. We test the hypothesis that dynamic localization to cilia occurs under physiological conditions associated with these GPCR functions. Both receptors are involved in feeding behaviors, and MCHR1 is also associated with sleep and reward. Cilia were analyzed with a computer-assisted approach allowing for unbiased and high-throughput analysis. We measured cilia frequency, length, and receptor occupancy. We observed changes in ciliary length, receptor occupancy, and cilia frequency under different conditions for one receptor but not another and in specific brain regions. These data suggest that dynamic cilia localization of GPCRs depends on properties of individual receptors and cells where they are expressed. A better understanding of subcellular localization dynamics of ciliary GPCRs could reveal unknown molecular mechanisms regulating behaviors like feeding.Copyright © 2023 Brewer et al.
Melanin Concentrating Hormone (MCH) receptor is a G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) with two subtypes R1 and R2. MCH-R1 is involved in the control of energy homeostasis, feeding behavior and body weight. Many studies have proved that administration of MCH-R1 antagonists significantly reduces food intake and causes weight loss in animal models. Herein, we report the optimization of our previously reported virtual screening hits into novel MCH-R1 ligands with chiral aliphatic nitrogen-containing scaffolds. The activity was improved from the micromolar range of the initial leads to 7 nM. We also disclose the first MCH-R1 ligands based on a diazaspiro[4.5]decane nucleus with sub-micromolar activity. A potent MCH-R1 antagonist with acceptable pharmacokinetic profile could represent a new hope for the management of obesity.Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Dysfunctional adipocyte calcium handling is implicated in obesity and thermogenesis. Junctophilins (JPs) stabilize calcium microdomain junctions between the plasma membrane and endoplasmic reticulum, but whether JPs are required for adipocyte function is not known. We show that JP2 is enriched in thermogenic brown adipose tissue (BAT) relative to other fat depots and is downregulated under conditions of nutrient overload. Conditional knockdown of JP2 in adipocytes, and more selectively in BAT, exacerbates cold intolerance and susceptibility to diet induced obesity. Mechanistically, JP2-depleted brown adipocytes exhibit calcium handling dysfunction with elevated cytosolic calcium levels at baseline but diminished norepinephrine-induced calcium transients, reduced store-operated calcium entry. Basal cytosolic calcium overload accounts for an increase in calpain activation and ensuing downregulation of STIM1 and hormone-sensitive lipase in JP2-depleted cells. Furthermore, JP2 silencing in brown adipocytes reduced oxygen consumption rates and compromised mitochondrial structure and quality. Together, these findings demonstrate that JP2 is essential for normal calcium homeostasis in brown adipocytes and reveal a critical role for JP2 in thermogenesis and resistance to diet-induced metabolic dysregulation.
Transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 4 (TRPV4) is implicated in salivary secretion; however, its role in mucin secretion in mouse sublingual glands (SLGs) remains unclear. This study used an ex vivo perfusion model to investigate the contribution of TRPV4 to mucin secretion and the rheological properties of saliva in wild-type (Trpv4⁺/⁺) and knockout (Trpv4⁻/⁻) male mice (8-12 weeks old) subjected to carbachol stimulation. Mucin content was assessed by N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) fluorescent labeling, viscoelasticity by spinnbarkeit analysis, and MUC19 expression by immunohistochemistry, quantitative PCR, and western blot. Pharmacological TRPV4 inhibition with RN1734 was also performed in Trpv4⁺/⁺ SLGs. Salivary flow rate, pH, Ca²⁺, and total protein concentration were comparable between genotypes. GalNAc concentration and spinnbarkeit were significantly reduced in Trpv4⁻/⁻ SLG saliva, and RN1734 treatment in Trpv4⁺/⁺ SLGs reproduced these reductions. Muc19 mRNA expression and intracellular MUC19 distribution were unaffected, whereas MUC19 protein in secreted saliva was significantly lower in Trpv4⁻/⁻ mice. These findings indicate that TRPV4 contributes to mucin secretion in SLG acinar cells independently of fluid secretion and Muc19 transcriptional regulation, likely at the level of exocytosis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Society of The Nippon Dental University.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42200590
Junctophilin-2 (JP2) and junctin (JCN) are key proteins in maintaining calcium homeostasis in cardiomyocytes. Both are reduced in diseased hearts while overexpression of JP2 mitigates heart failure. This study demonstrates that JP2 and JCN are reduced in cardiomyocytes under stress, leading to intracellular calcium dysregulation and subsequent cell death. JP2 binds JCN, thereby blocking muscle ring finger protein-1 (MURF1)-JCN interaction and subsequently preventing MURF1-mediated JCN ubiquitination and degradation in cardiomyocytes. Thus, JP2 overexpression and MURF1 inhibition similarly preserve JCN protein and attenuate myocardial injury and remodeling, and improve myocardial function in preclinical animal models of lipid overload-induced cardiomyopathy and transverse aortic constriction-induced heart failure. Disruption of the JP2-JCN axis represents an important mechanism underlying heart disease and may serve as a potential therapeutic target for cardiac protection.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study aimed to characterize peripheral and central sensitization in mechanical allodynia of the tongue induced by sleep-related disorders, neuropathic pain, and inflammatory pain. Male rats were exposed to chronic intermittent hypoxia (CIH) for 16 days using an obstructive sleep apnea model. Lingual nerve injury (LNI) was induced to establish a neuropathic tongue pain model, while complete Freund's adjuvant was injected into the tongue to establish a tongue inflammation (TI) model. The expression levels of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1α, piezo-type mechanosensitive ion channel component 2 (Piezo2), transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 4 (TRPV4), and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in the trigeminal ganglion (TG) and cFos in the trigeminal spinal subnucleus were determined using immunohistochemistry on day 16. All CIH, LNI, and TI rat models exhibited prolonged mechanical allodynia of the tongue. CIH and TI increased the number of CGRP-immunoreactive (IR) neurons and HIF-1α-IR cells. However, only CIH increased the number of Piezo2-IR neurons and GFAP-positive satellite glial cells. The number of TRPV4-IR neurons was elevated in the LNI and TI groups but not in the CIH group. Only CIH induced persistent cFos expression in the trigeminal spinal subnucleus caudalis, indicating long-lasting central sensitization. These findings indicate that CIH-induced tongue pain arises through distinct peripheral and central sensitization processes, highlighting the diverse mechanisms underlying chronic mechanical allodynia of the tongue.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41748779 is a review article
Matching transformation system (MA-T), an on-demand aqueous chlorine dioxide production solution is utilized in various applications, including antibacterial and cancer therapies. Herein, we focused on the ability of MA-T in oxidizing human transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 4 (hTRPV4), which functions as a redox sensor, using Ca2+ imaging and patch-clamp experiments. We found that 10 ppm MA-T activated hTRPV4 in HEK293T cells. Moreover, MA-T induced increase in cytosolic calcium concentration through hTRPV4 activation in human non-pigmented ciliary epithelial cells. Our study findings suggest MA-T as a potential agent for TRPV4-related diseases.
Atypical chemokine receptors (ACKRs) indirectly mediate cell migration through chemokine scavenging, which generally requires phosphorylation by G protein-coupled receptor kinases (GRKs) to efficiently control chemokine levels. Despite not coupling to G proteins, ACKR4 is preferentially modified by GRK3, a kinase dependent on active G protein subunits for membrane translocation and phosphorylation activity. How ACKR4 circumvents G protein dependency to engage GRK3 is unclear. To resolve the underlying mechanism, we used live-cell bioluminescence resonance energy transfer assays to measure GRK3 and phosphorylation-dependent arrestin recruitment and tracked the impact of fluorescent chemokine uptake by flow cytometry. We demonstrate that ACKR4 engages arrestin preferentially downstream of GRK2/3 phosphorylation fully independent of G protein coordination. Instead, the kinases are recruited directly to the atypical receptor via a unique acidic-rich motif in the proximal receptor C terminus. Mutations in this region severely impaired kinase and arrestin recruitment, as well as chemokine scavenging. Productive phosphorylation also plays a substantial role in G protein-independent GRK3 translocation to ACKR4, and recruitment of kinase-dead GRK3 is severely impaired. Together, these findings suggest that ACKR4 directly coordinates GRK3 coupling, highlighting a uniquely evolved atypical mechanism to use GRK2/3 while bypassing G protein activation and thereby supporting efficient chemokine scavenging by the atypical receptor. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: Cell migration and positioning is efficiently regulated by atypical chemokine receptors (ACKR) through chemokine scavenging, often upon GRK phosphorylation. GRK3 dominates the phosphorylation of ACKR4, despite ACKR4 not activating G proteins needed to promote the kinase activity. This study resolved that ACKR4 is directly modified by GRK3 without G protein involvement. Instead, specific acidic residues coordinate the phosphorylation reaction. While seemingly unique to ACKR4, similar mechanisms for GRK2/3 action may contribute to kinase modification of other atypical and canonical GPCRs.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Prokineticin 2 (PK2) signaling to gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons is essential for their embryonic migration from the nasal placode to the brain, and its disruption results in hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. Although PK2 has been implicated in the regulation of reproductive function in adult rodents, its direct cellular targets remain insufficiently defined. Here, we investigated whether GnRH neurons in adult female mice receive and functionally respond to PK2 signals.Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were obtained from acute forebrain slices prepared from adult female GnRH-GFP mice. The effects of PK2 and prokineticin receptor antagonists on spontaneous firing and miniature postsynaptic currents (mPSCs) were assessed. Expression of PK2 receptor (PKR2) in GnRH neurons was examined using RNAscope in situ hybridization for simultaneous detection of PKR2 and GnRH mRNAs, followed by confocal laser microscopic analysis.PK2 increased action potential firing and mPSC frequency in 42.9% (firing) and 42.1% (mPSC) of GnRH neurons. These effects were prevented by intracellular G-protein inhibition with GDP-β-S and by pharmacological blockade of prokineticin receptors using PKRA7 or PC27. Inhibition of nitric oxide synthase by NPLA also eliminated the PK2-induced elevation of mPSC frequency. RNAscope analysis revealed PKR2 mRNA expression in approximately one-third of GnRH neurons.These findings demonstrate that PK2 directly enhances the excitability of a subset of GnRH neurons through PKR2-dependent mechanisms, identifying these neurons as functional targets of PK2 signaling in the mature female mouse brain.PK2 serves as a direct modulator of the reproductive neuroendocrine axis in adult female mice by activating PKR2 expressed in a subpopulation of GnRH neurons.Copyright © 2026 Farkas, Göblyös, Moi, Onnis, Kalló and Liposits.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42242952 is a review article
Atypical chemokine receptor 4 (ACKR4) is a scavenger receptor that regulates the availability of chemokines, including CCL19, and consequently the responsiveness of their classical G protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). In contrast to classical chemokine receptors, ACKR4 is completely biased towards βarrestins and does not couple to G proteins. Here, we show that ACKR4 in its apo state constitutively pre-associates with βarrestins and cycles between the plasma membrane and endosomal compartments. We identify distinct serine and threonine residues in the tail region of ACKR4 involved in regulating steady-state receptor trafficking and chemokine uptake, and that a C-terminal serine/threonine cluster is key for both ligand-mediated βarrestin recruitment and efficient chemokine uptake. Moreover, different serine/threonine clusters in the tail region of ACKR4 account for steady-state and chemokine-driven association of the four non-visual GPCR kinases (GRKs), which differentially phosphorylate two serine and one threonine residues. We show that GRK5/6 primarily phosphorylate ACKR4 in the absence of chemokines, and that CCL19 stimulation recruits GRK2/3 to enhance ACKR4 phosphorylation. Notably, we found that apo ACKR4 forms a ternary complex with GRK2/3 and the G protein without activating it. Finally, we show that the C-terminal serine/threonine cluster of ACKR4 and GRK2 play leading roles in βarrestin recruitment and CCL19 internalisation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lysophosphatidic acid receptor 2 (LPAR2), a G protein-coupled receptor, has been implicated in the progression of fibrosis and is therefore a promising novel drug target for the treatment of fibrosis and related diseases. In this paper, a reliable homology model of LPAR2 was obtained by using three templates (PDB IDs: 4Z34, 7TD0, and 7VIE) and evaluations. A new binding site for a series of selective LPAR2 inhibitors were identified through molecular docking with the reference compound 50. Subsequently, a three-dimensional quantitative structure-activity relationship (3D QSAR) analysis was conducted on a series of N-sulfonyl heterocyclic antagonists of LPAR2. The derived optimal CoMFA model (q2 = 0.792, r2 = 0.999, [Formula: see text] = 0.998, [Formula: see text] = 0.978) and CoMSIA model (q2 = 0.713, r2 = 0.996, [Formula: see text] = 0.978, [Formula: see text] = 0.958) demonstrated strong statistical robustness and high external predictability. The 3D contour maps generated from these models were analyzed and compared with the binding mode of the reference compound. This provided insights into the structural requirements of these LPAR2-selective inhibitors. Furthermore, the predictive capability of these models was validated by accurately predicting the antagonistic activities of other types of LPAR2-selective inhibitors (CoMFA-SE, [Formula: see text] = 0.862; CoMSIA-SEHDA, [Formula: see text] = 0.934), confirming the robustness of the optimal 3D QSAR models. The new binding site and the optimal 3D QSAR models will be helpful to design novel molecules and predict their inhibitory activity against LPAR2.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Delayed healing of extraction sockets under inflammatory conditions, such as periodontitis, remains a common clinical challenge. Persistent inflammation and dysregulated immune responses are increasingly recognized as key factors impairing alveolar bone regeneration; however, the underlying immunoregulatory mechanisms remain incompletely understood.An inflammatory tooth extraction model was established in mice. Macrophage polarization in healing sockets was analyzed by immunofluorescence and flow cytometry, and LPAR3/Lpar3 expression was examined in mouse extraction socket tissues and human alveolar bone debris collected from healing sites using qRT-PCR. In vitro, RAW264.7 macrophages were treated with lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) or the LPAR3 agonist OMPT to assess M1/M2 polarization, and macrophage-conditioned media were applied to evaluate osteogenic differentiation of bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs). In vivo, OMPT was locally administered into inflammatory tooth extraction sockets, and alveolar bone regeneration was evaluated by micro-computed tomography and histological analyses.M2 macrophage polarization was significantly impaired in inflammatory tooth extraction sockets, accompanied by marked downregulation of LPAR3/Lpar3 expression. In vitro, LPA promoted macrophage M2 polarization in a Lpar3-dependent manner, and activation of Lpar3 enhanced the pro-osteogenic effects of macrophages on BMSCs. In vivo, local activation of Lpar3 restored the M1/M2 balance and significantly improved alveolar bone regeneration in inflammatory sockets.These findings demonstrate that Lpar3-mediated macrophage polarization plays a critical role in inflammatory tooth extraction socket healing. Targeting the LPA-Lpar3 axis may represent a promising immunoregulatory strategy to enhance alveolar bone regeneration following tooth extraction under inflammatory conditions.© 2026 The Author(s).
This study aimed to determine the effects of 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 (25-OH-VD3), combined with chondroitin sulfate (CS) and glucosamine sulfate (GS), on calcium and phosphorus metabolism and bone development of weaned piglets. One hundred weaned piglets (28 d old; Duroc × Landrace × Large White; initial body weight, 7.8 ± 0.22 kg) were randomly assigned to 5 dietary treatments, which included basal diet + 50 μg/kg vitamin D3 (CON), basal diet + 50 μg/kg 25-OH-VD3 (HyD), basal diet + 50 μg/kg 25-OH-VD3 + 800 mg/kg CS (CS), basal diet + 50 μg/kg 25-OH-VD3 + 1200 mg/kg GS (GS), and basal diet + 50 μg/kg 25-OH-VD3 + 800 mg/kg CS + 1200 mg/kg GS (CS + GS). The experiment lasted 31 d, including 3 d of acclimation. The results showed that pigs in the HyD and GS groups had a higher (P = 0.006) apparent digestibility of calcium than pigs in the CON group. The bone mineral density and calcium content in the metatarsal and phalangeal bones of piglets in the CS and GS groups were significantly higher (P < 0.05) than those in the CON and HyD groups. The mRNA expression of transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 6 and calcium-binding protein D9K in the colon mucosa and transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 5, solute carrier family 34 member 1, calcium-sensing receptor, and calcium-binding protein D28K in the kidneys of piglets was upregulated (P < 0.05) in the GS group compared to that in the CON, HyD, CS, and CS + GS groups. The protein expression of cytochrome P450 27B1 and calcium-sensing receptor in the kidneys of piglets was upregulated (P < 0.05) in the GS group compared to that in the CON, HyD, and CS + GS groups. Overall, dietary supplementation with 25-OH-VD3 alone or in combination with GS enhanced bone development in piglets by improving calcium and phosphorus metabolism.© 2025 The Authors.
Based on bioinformatics insights, this study investigates the functions of lysophosphatidic acid receptor 3 (LPAR3) and TEA domain transcription factor 4 (TEAD4) in hepatic stellate cell (HSC) activation and portal hypertension (PHT) progression. LPAR3 exhibited heightened expression in transforming growth factor beta 1-activated human HSCs (LX-2) and in the liver of carbon tetrachloride-challenged mice. Knockdown of LPAR3 alleviated activation and contractile activity of LX-2 cells, as well as ameliorated liver injury and fibrosis in PHT mice, achieved through deactivation of the p38 MAPK and PI3K/AKT signaling. TEAD4, which was enhanced in the activated LX-2 cells and the liver of PHT mice, was identified to bind to the promoter of LPAR3 to promote its transcription. Silencing of TEAD4 similarly inactivated the p38 MAPK and PI3K/AKT pathways by repressing LPAR3, thus alleviating LX-2 cell activation and liver fibrosis in PHT mice. However, these effects were negated by LPAR3 overexpression. In summary, this investigation suggests that TEAD4-mediated upregulation of LPAR3 augments HSC activation and liver fibrosis in PHT by inducing the p38 MAPK and PI3K/AKT axis.© 2025. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 40257471
Dry eye is a multifactorial disease associated with impaired tear film homeostasis, damaging the ocular surface epithelium. Lysophosphatidic acid receptors (LPARs) are G-protein coupled receptors involved in Ca2+ and cAMP signaling via PLC and adenylyl cyclase activation. LPAR activation is involved in cell proliferation and wound healing in human corneal epithelial cells (HCECs) and in neuropathic pain. This study investigates the expression and functions of LPARs in ocular surface epithelial cells. Functional measurements of ocular surface potential difference (OSPD) were done in mice with topically applied, selective LPAR modulators. LPAR3 immunostaining was performed in mouse and human cornea and conjunctiva, and mouse lacrimal gland. LPAR-induced Ca2+ signaling was studied in primary and immortalized HCECs. The general LPAR agonist, linoleoyl LPA, and the LPAR3 selective agonist, 2S-OMPT, stimulated ocular surface Cl- secretion via Ca2+-activated Cl- channels (CaCCs). LPAR3 was expressed in the corneal and conjunctival epithelia of mice and humans, as well as in mouse lacrimal gland. Activation of LPAR and LPAR3 in HCECs transiently elevated intracellular Ca2+ through the Gq/PLC signaling pathway. LPAR3 agonists may potentially have therapeutic efficacy in ocular surface diseases, including dry eye disease.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Pyroptosis represents a mode of programmed necrotic cell death (PCD), mediated by members of gasdermin family (GSDMs), such as GSDME. It is emerging as a promising approach for combating cancer. Notably, GSDME is the key modulator for the switch between apoptosis and pyroptosis in cells. However, GSDME is often downregulated in many malignancies, including lung adenocarcinoma.To identify novel pyroptosis inducers in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and dissect the underlying mechanism.Pyroptosis was examined by live cell imaging, PI/Hoechst/Annexin V staining, LDH release assay, ELISA, and western blot assays. DARTS, CETSA, molecular docking was used to identify the target of NJH-13. RNA-seq, qPCR, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), dual luciferase assays were used elucidate the mechanism.In this study, NJH-13, an N-containing heterocycle, was screened out and identified to possess the ability to activate GSDME, consequently triggering pyroptosis in NSCLC cells. By using the DARTS strategy, transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 5 (TRPV5) was identified as a potential target of NJH-13. NJH-13 increased intracellular calcium level and triggered oxidative stress, both of which are critical events leading to pyroptosis mediated by GSDME. Mechanistically, NJH-13 enhanced the transcription of GSDME via the protein kinase B (AKT)/forkhead box transcription factor O1 (FOXO1) signaling pathway. ChIP revealed that FOXO1 bound directly to the promoter region of GSDME, thus triggering the GSDME-mediated pyroptosis. Pharmacological and genetic activation of AKT or inhibition of FOXO1 partially rescued NJH-13-induced pyroptotic cell death. Moreover, NJH-13 treatment suppressed tumor growth in vivo.Taken together, our results revealed that TRPV5 is a distinctive target for manipulating pyroptosis and provided evidence that NJH-13 functions as a potential anti-cancer agent capable of triggering pyroptosis in NSCLC cells.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) is a lipid mediator with diverse biological functions through its receptors on the cell membrane. As one of the six LPA receptors, LPA receptor 3 (LPAR3) is highly expressed in mouse kidneys, but its physiological function in the kidney has been poorly explored.Wild-type (WT) and Lpar3-/- mice were used to investigate the renal physiological function of LPAR3 under hypoxia. The expression levels of LPA receptors in the kidneys of WT mice with or without exposure to hypoxia (8% O2) were detected by RT‒qPCR. RNA sequencing analysis was performed to identify differences in gene expression profiles between the hypoxic kidneys of WT and Lpar3-/- mice. The effects of LPAR3 deficiency and treatment with the LPAR1/3 inhibitor Ki16425 or the LPAR3 selective agonist 2S-OMPT on erythropoietin (EPO) production in the kidneys of hypoxic mice were determined by RT‒qPCR and ELISAs. The mechanism of LPAR3-mediated regulation of EPO expression was further studied in vivo with mouse models and in vitro with cultured human cells.LPAR3 is the major LPA receptor in mouse kidneys, and its expression is significantly upregulated under hypoxic conditions. RNA sequencing analysis revealed that, compared with WT mice, Lpar3-/- mice presented a significant decrease in hypoxia-induced EPO expression in the kidney, together with reduced plasma EPO levels and lower hematocrit and hemoglobin levels. Hypoxic renal EPO expression in WT mice was diminished by the administration of the LPAR1/3 inhibitor Ki16425 and increased by 2S-OMPT, a selective agonist of LPAR3. Hypoxia-induced HIF-2α accumulation in mouse kidneys was impaired by LPAR3 deficiency. Further studies revealed that the PI3K/Akt pathway participated in the regulation of HIF-2α accumulation and EPO expression by LPAR3 under hypoxic conditions.Our study revealed the role of LPAR3 in promoting the HIF-2α‒EPO axis in hypoxic mouse kidneys, suggesting that the LPA receptor may serve as a novel potential pharmaceutical target to regulate renal EPO production in hypoxia-related situations, such as chronic kidney disease and altitude disease.© 2024. The Author(s).
LPA3 receptors were expressed in TREx HEK 293 cells, and their signaling and phosphorylation were studied. The agonist, lysophosphatidic acid (LPA), increased intracellular calcium and ERK phosphorylation through pertussis toxin-insensitive processes. Phorbol myristate acetate, but not LPA, desensitizes LPA3-mediated calcium signaling, the agonists, and the phorbol ester-induced LPA3 internalization. Pitstop 2 (clathrin heavy chain inhibitor) markedly reduced LPA-induced receptor internalization; in contrast, phorbol ester-induced internalization was only delayed. LPA induced rapid β-arrestin-LPA3 receptor association. The agonist and the phorbol ester-induced marked LPA3 receptor phosphorylation, and phosphorylation sites were detected using mass spectrometry. Phosphorylated residues were detected in the intracellular loop 3 (S221, T224, S225, and S229) and in the carboxyl terminus (S321, S325, S331, T333, S335, Y337, and S343). Interestingly, phosphorylation sites are within sequences predicted to constitute β-arrestin binding sites. These data provide insight into LPA3 receptor signaling and regulation.
Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) type 3 (LPA3) receptor mutants were generated in which the sites detected phosphorylated were substituted by non-phosphorylatable amino acids. Substitutions were made in the intracellular loop 3 (IL3 mutant), the carboxyl terminus (Ctail), and both domains (IL3/Ctail). The wild-type (WT) receptor and the mutants were expressed in T-REx HEK293 cells, and the consequences of the substitutions were analyzed employing different functional parameters. Agonist- and LPA-mediated receptor phosphorylation was diminished in the IL3 and Ctail mutants and essentially abolished in the IL3/Ctail mutant, confirming that the main phosphorylation sites are present in both domains and their role in receptor phosphorylation eliminated by substitution and distributed in both domains. The WT and mutant receptors increased intracellular calcium and ERK 1/2 phosphorylation in response to LPA and PMA. The agonist, Ki16425, diminished baseline intracellular calcium, which suggests some receptor endogenous activity. Similarly, baseline ERK1/2 phosphorylation was diminished by Ki16425. An increase in baseline ERK phosphorylation was detected in the IL3/Ctail mutant. LPA and PMA-induced receptor interaction with β-arrestin 2 and LPA3 internalization were severely diminished in cells expressing the mutants. Mutant-expressing cells also exhibit increased baseline proliferation and response to different stimuli, which were inhibited by the antagonist Ki16425, suggesting a role of LPA receptors in this process. Migration in response to different attractants was markedly increased in the Ctail mutant, which the Ki16425 antagonist also attenuated. Our data experimentally show that receptor phosphorylation in the distinct domains is relevant for LPA3 receptor function.
'Emergency' myelopoiesis usually occurs to facilitate malignancy progression. Immunosuppressive neutrophils, also termed polymorphonuclear myeloid-derived suppressor cells, are potent mediators of immunosuppression and tumor promotion. Here we demonstrate that the STAT3-dependent induction of cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1 (CysLTR1), with a key role in asthma and other inflammatory conditions, sustains tumor-promoting emergency myelopoiesis. Genetic ablation and pharmacological inhibition of CysLTR1 diminishes tumor growth with enhanced antitumor immunity. Antitumor effect of CysLTR1 inhibition is linked with transcriptomic rewiring of granulopoiesis and neutrophil reprogramming toward an antitumor immune phenotype; this process requires the distinct transcriptional factors MXD1 and NFE2 to specifically dictate myeloid progenitor commitment and differentiation in association with controlled de novo synthesis of granule cargoes. Targeting CysLTR1 with clinically available antagonists overcomes resistance to anti-PD1 in multiple mouse tumor models. These findings, thus, open the opportunity for rapid translation of CysLTR1 inhibitors targeting emergency granulopoiesis and unveil a new programmed 'disarming' neutrophil strategy to improve cancer immunotherapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41928910
BACKGROUND: Stage III non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is heterogeneous and poses significant treatment challenges. In recent years, neoadjuvant therapy has emerged as a promising treatment strategy for patients with stage III NSCLC. CASE PRESENTATION: We report the case of a 39-year-old woman with stage IIIB lung adenocarcinoma harboring a neuroplastin-neuregulin 1 (NPTN-NRG1) fusion who achieved a dramatic response to neoadjuvant afatinib. After three months of therapy, imaging showed a partial response; the patient subsequently underwent complete surgical resection with an uneventful recovery and has remained disease-free to date. To explore the mechanism underlying this response, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and T-cell receptor (TCR) sequencing of tumor tissues and lymph nodes. The analysis revealed a mutual interaction between CD8+ effector T cells, CD8+ memory T cells, and natural killer-like (NK-like) T cells via C-C chemokine ligand (CCL)5-C-C chemokine receptor (CCR)5, CCL5-CCR3, and CCL5-CCR1 ligand-receptor pairs. These findings indicate that the post-treatment microenvironment is characterized by active chemokine signaling and immune cell crosstalk, which may contribute to the anti-tumor response. CONCLUSIONS: This case highlights the efficacy of afatinib in the perioperative treatment of NSCLC with NRG1 fusion, and supports its potential as a personalized therapeutic strategy.
The cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1 (CysLTR1) is known as a potent lipid mediator with a well-established role in inflammatory regulation and lung disease. While its involvement in immune cell recruitment has been previously reported, its broader impact on pulmonary metabolism remains poorly understood.The study aims to investigate the metabolic consequences of a CysLTR1 deletion in mice to elucidate its role in pulmonary metabolic homeostasis.Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) was collected from CysLTR1 knockout (KO) and wild-type (WT) mice and analysed using standardized untargeted gas chromatography-time-of-flight mass spectrometry (GC-TOFMS) metabolomics.Metabolomics analyses of the BALF collected from the CysLTR1 KO mice presented significantly reduced levels of glucose, glucosamine, and glyceric acid, indicating the role of the CysLTR in lung glucose uptake and consequently lung glycolysis and gluconeogenesis. This is further supported by reductions in myo-inositol and D-chiro-inositol, also supporting previous findings that this occurs due to insulin resistance. Consequential disruption of various glucose-dependent pathways, including the pentose phosphate pathway (reduced gluconic acid, sedoheptulose and xylose) and purine metabolism (reduced 1-methylinosine) indicates a consequential altered nucleotide turnover, and the significantly reduced concentrations of butanoic acid, decan-2-ol, and 1-hexadecanol, indicate changes to fatty acid metabolism in the lung, as a compensatory response to the initial glucose deficiency induced by the CysLTR1 KO. Lastly, the changes to mandelic acid, glutaric acid, tricarballylic acid, and decan-2-ol, furthermore, indicate the role of CysLTR1 in the composition/metabolism of the microbiome.This study expands our knowledge on the role of CysLTR1 beyond its role in immune regulation, that may later serve towards a better understanding of CysLTR1 associated lung diseases and in the development of improved therapeutic strategies.
Cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1 (CysLTR1), originally described as a proinflammatory G protein-coupled receptor, has been shown to possess diverse nonimmunological properties. One of these functions is to modulate glucose-stimulated insulin secretion in β cells. Furthermore, the inhibition of CysLTR1 increases retinal cell survival in early diabetic retinopathy. Nevertheless, the potential of CysLTR1 to modulate glucose levels in retinal vascular cells, such as endothelial cells (ECs) and pericytes (PCs), is unknown. Therefore, we determined the intracellular glucose levels in retinal cells in vitro after the inhibition of CysLTR1 under standard and high-glucose culture conditions.Primary human ECs, PCs, and the ARPE-19 cell line were cultured under standard (5.5 mmol/l glucose + 27.5 mmol/l mannitol) and high-glucose (33.0 mmol/l) conditions in the absence and presence of the specific CysLTR1 antagonists montelukast and zafirlukast for 1, 3, and 7 days. CysLTR1 expression was determined by immunofluorescence microscopy. CysLT secretion was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The effects of high glucose and CysLTR1 inhibition on cell viability and intracellular glucose levels were analyzed by luminescence-based assays. Furthermore, the transendothelial and transepithelial electrical resistance of the ECs and ARPE-19 monolayers was measured.CysLTR1 inhibition under standard glucose culture conditions increased the cellular glucose levels in retinal ECs, PCs, and ARPE-19 cells after 1 and 3 days of treatment. Under high-glucose culture conditions, CysLTR1 inhibition for 1 day reduced the intracellular glucose level in ARPE-19 cells. However, CysLTR1 inhibition for 3 days increased the level of intracellular glucose in ARPE-19 cells under high-glucose culture conditions. Furthermore, CysLTR1 inhibition reduced the tightness of the EC and ARPE-19 monolayers under standard culture conditions but increased the tightness of the ARPE-19 monolayers under high-glucose conditions.CysLTR1 is considered a potential target for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and early diabetic retinopathy. Our data revealed that CysLTR1 activity directly regulates cellular glucose levels in retinal cells, supporting these hypotheses. Interestingly, the effect of CysLTR1 activity on glucose levels was reversed under acute metabolic stress. Thus, the activity of CysLTR1 appears to be more complex in terms of glucose metabolism and needs to be studied in more detail.Copyright © 2025 Molecular Vision.
This research seeks to investigate the prognostic significance and molecular mechanisms of derived organoid-angiogenesis-related genes (DOARGs) in colorectal cancer (CRC). DOARGs associated with CRC prognosis were screened based on The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases. Machine learning techniques were employed to create and assess a signature based on DOARGs, and a nomogram was constructed. Additionally, assessments were conducted on the levels of tumor mutational burden (TMB), immune infiltration, potential chemotherapeutic agents, and immune therapy responses to assess variations between groups with varying risk levels. In vitro experiments, including quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), Western blot, CCK-8, and transwell assays were conducted to verify the expression and molecular mechanisms of the model genes. A total of 13 DOARGs significantly associated with prognosis were identified. Five model genes (tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases 1 (TIMP1), matrix metalloproteinase-1 (MMP1), C-C motif chemokine ligand 24 (CCL24), melanotransferrin (MELTF), and lymphoid enhancer-binding factor 1 (LEF1)) were identified for prognostic signature establishment. This signature demonstrated robust predictive performance for CRC prognosis upon validation. Significant differences were observed in TMB, immune infiltration, potential chemotherapeutic responses, and immune therapy reactions between groups with varying risk levels. Subgroup analysis categorized tumor samples into C1 and C2 groups, with C1 exhibiting significantly lower survival rates compared to C2. qRT-PCR analysis indicated a marked upregulation in the expression of the five model genes in CRC cells, and low expression of CCL24 suppressed the biological functions of CRC cells. This study has developed a prognostic signature for CRC utilizing DOARGs. This signature offers novel targets for the prognosis and personalized treatment of CRC.
Background: CC chemokines orchestrate intercellular communication and modulate tumor microenvironment. This study investigates the role of C-C motif chemokine ligand 24 (CCL24) in immune regulation in colorectal cancer (CRC). Methods: CCL24 expression and its clinical relevance in CRC were analyzed via bioinformatics and tissue microarrays. Genetic knockout of CCL24, or antibody-mediated inhibition of CCL24 was performed in AOM/DSS-induced mouse CRC models. CCL24 knockout (CCL24ko) CRC cells were co-cultured with macrophages or CD8+ T cells. Mouse MC38 CRC cells with CCL24ko were implanted into C57BL/6 mice to generate subcutaneous or metastasis models. Molecular docking was conducted to identify potential pharmacological inhibitors of CCL24. Results: CCL24 is abundantly expressed in CRC tissues and linked to T cell dysfunction and unfavorable patient survival. Inhibition or knockout of CCL24 suppressed AOM/DSS-induced colorectal tumorigenesis in mice, reduced the population of tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), and increased CD8+ T cell numbers. While the morphology of CCL24ko cells showed minimal changes in vitro, their tumorigenic ability was reduced in immunocompetent but not in immunodeficient mice. CCL24 did not directly alter CD8+ T cell populations; instead, CCL24+ tumor cells recruited CCR3+ TAMs, which promote immunosuppression by promoting nuclear translocation of YAP1, a key transcription factor of the Hippo pathway. Gracillin, a natural compound, was identified as a CCL24 inhibitor and synergized with 5-fluorouracil and programmed cell death 1 monoclonal antibody therapies in allograft-bearing mice. Conclusion: CCL24 facilitates recruitment of CCR3+ TAMs, enhancing the immunosuppressive TME in CRC. Targeting CCL24 with agents like gracillin represents a promising therapeutic strategy.© The author(s).
Although there is a decline in the overall incidence of chronic gastritis through antibiotic treatment, the public health burden remains significant because of low eradication rates. Herein, we explore the role of sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor-2 (S1P2 receptor) in mediating the development of chronic gastritis, as well as the effect of S1P2 receptor antagonists in attenuating its development.Chronic gastritis model was established through long-term exposure to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in mice. S1P2 receptor antagonists were administrated via gavage. Western blotting and immunohistochemistry assays analysed S1P2 receptor and paralemmin-3 (PALM3). Co-immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence staining assays identified the binding of S1P2 receptor with NF-kappa-B-activating protein (NKAP) or PALM3 in the nuclei. Haematoxylin-eosin staining assessed gastric tissues. 16S ribosomal RNA gene amplicon sequencing analysed gastric microbiota compositions.Long-term exposure to LPS developed chronic gastritis by activating S1P2 receptors in gastric epithelial cells. Mechanistically, LPS stimulated PALM3-mediated nuclear translocation of S1P2 receptors, which then bound to NKAP; leading to the upregulation of NF-κB/IL-6 pathway. Inhibition of S1P2 receptors blocked LPS-induced nuclear translocation, resulting in downregulation of NF-κB/IL-6 pathway. Administration of S1P2 receptor antagonists attenuated the LPS-induced chronic gastritis. Additionally, abundance of pathogenic Gram-negative gastric bacteria (e.g., Enterobacter) was significantly reduced following treatment with S1P2 receptor antagonists.Long-term exposure to LPS developed chronic gastritis by stimulating S1P2 receptors. S1P2 receptors thus represent a potential target for treatment of chronic gastritis. S1P2 receptor antagonist blocks the LPS-induced nuclear translocation of S1P2 receptors, thus attenuating chronic gastritis.© 2025 British Pharmacological Society.
Inflammation is a significant risk factor and contributor to the development of cardiovascular disease by driving adaptive and maladaptive responses to cardiac injury. Macrophages are the most abundant immune cells in the heart and play an important role in the remodeling of cardiac tissue. Cardiac resident macrophages (CRMs) are integral components of the myocardium, where they have key roles in inflammation, tissue injury, and remodeling. However, the precise mechanisms by which CRMs regulate remodeling in heart failure remain poorly understood.We used in vivo and ex vivo approaches to show that CRMs are the primary source of the chemokine CCL24 (C-C motif chemokine ligand 24) in the heart. To investigate the role of CCL24 on cardiac function following pressure overload, we subjected CCL24-deficient mice to transverse aortic constriction. To determine the role of its receptor CCR3 (C-C chemokine receptor type 3) in fibroblast activation, we used CRISPR (clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats) and Cas9 (CRISPR-associated protein 9) to generate fibroblast-specific CCR3-deficient mice. We used cardiac fibroblasts to determine the direct effects of CCL24 and the signaling pathways downstream of CCR3 required for their activation and proliferation.We identified a subpopulation of CRMs that expresses high levels of CCL24 during pressure overload-induced injury. Following transverse aortic constriction, CCL24 deficiency ameliorated cardiac fibrosis, suggesting a pathological role for CCL24 and revealing that CRMs are a heterogeneous population with dichotomous roles in mediating cardiac remodeling. Mechanistically, CCL24 directly activated cardiac fibroblasts through its sole receptor, CCR3, in an inflammation-independent process. The engagement of the CCR3 receptor promoted fibroblast proliferation and activation via PI3K (phosphoinositide 3-kinase) and the release of the key fibrotic cytokine TGF (transforming growth factor)-β. Following pressure overload, fibroblast-specific deletion of CCR3 improved cardiac function and reduced fibrosis to a degree comparable to that observed in CCL24-deficient mice. Notably, administration of a CCL24-blocking antibody or a CCR3 antagonist enhanced cardiac function in pressure-overloaded mice, underscoring the CCL24-CCR3 axis as a promising therapeutic target for heart failure.Macrophage-derived CCL24 aggravates fibrosis via the CCR3 receptor, impairing cardiac function in heart failure.
Overexpression of C-C motif chemokine ligand 24 (CCL24) is associated with inflammatory and fibrotic diseases, including primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC), systemic sclerosis, metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) and metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH). CM-101 is a humanized monoclonal antibody that neutralizes CCL24 to attenuate inflammation and fibrosis in preclinical models. Here we report the results from two Phase 1a studies investigating the safety and tolerability of intravenous (IV) and subcutaneous (SC) CM-101 in healthy participants, and in one Phase 1b study of IV and SC CM-101 in patients with MASLD without evidence of MASH.In each dose group (0.75 mg/kg, 2.5 mg/kg, 5.0 mg/kg, and 10.0 mg/kg) of the single-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 1a IV study, healthy volunteers were randomized 3:1 to receive a single IV infusion of CM-101 or placebo. In another Phase 1a, single-center, double-blind placebo-controlled study, healthy volunteers were randomized 3:1 to receive a single SC injection of CM-101 5.0 mg/kg or placebo. In the multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 1b MASLD study, patients with MASLD without evidence of MASH were randomized 3:1 to receive the following: cohort 1, IV CM-101 2.5 mg/kg or placebo, and cohort 2, SC CM-101 5.0 mg/kg or placebo every three weeks for 12 weeks. The primary endpoints (for all these studies) were safety, tolerability, and serum pharmacokinetic parameters of CM-101.In each study, adverse events were rare and mild to moderate. The CM-101 pharmacokinetics profile was typical of a monoclonal antibody, with a terminal half-life of approximately 19 days when given IV and approximately 17 days when given as SC injection. In patients with MASLD without evidence of MASH, CM-101 was associated with decreased serum levels of inflammatory, fibrotic, and collagen turnover biomarkers.In healthy volunteers and patients with MASLD without evidence of MASH, IV and SC CM-101 was well tolerated at doses ranging from 0.75 mg/kg to10.0 mg/kg and engaged its target (i.e., CCL24), indicating therapeutic potential in treating inflammatory and fibrotic diseases.NCT06025851, NCT06037577, and NCT06044467. Date of registration: September 2023.© 2024. The Author(s).
Diabetes is an independent risk factor for mesh complications in women undergoing mesh-augmented surgical repairs of stress urinary incontinence and/or pelvic organ prolapse. The underlying mechanism remains unclear.This study aimed to define the diabetes-associated alterations in the host inflammatory response to mesh and correlate them with perioperative glucose management.Deidentified demographics and medical records of patients who underwent mesh removal and participated in a mesh biorepository study were reviewed (n=200). In patients with diagnosed diabetes (n=25), blood glucose management before initial mesh implantation and before and after mesh removal was assessed by blood glucose and hemoglobin A1c levels. Age- and body mass index-matched tissue samples excised from patients with and without diabetes were examined. Transcriptomic profiles of immune cell markers, immune mediators, key inflammatory regulators, cell senescence, and epigenetic enzymes were determined by multiplex transcriptomic assays (NanoString). Ratios of apoptotic cells to CD68+ macrophages were examined with immunofluorescence. Protein profiles of 12 molecules involved in apoptotic cell clearance were examined with a multiplex protein assay (Luminex).Demographic and clinical characteristics, including duration between mesh implantation and removal, reason for removal, and type of mesh, etc., were comparable between patients with and without diabetes, except for 11.6% higher body mass index in the former (P=.005). In patients with diabetes, suboptimal management of blood glucose following mesh implantation was observed, with 59% of the patients having loosely or poorly controlled glucose before and after the mesh removal. Ongoing chronic inflammatory response was observed in the excised mesh-tissue complexes in both groups, whereas markers for M2 macrophages (Mrc1 [mannose receptor C-type 1]) and helper T cells (Cd4 [CD4 molecule]) were increasingly expressed in the diabetic vs nondiabetic group (P=.023 and .047, respectively). Furthermore, the gene expressions of proinflammatory Ccl24 (C-C motif chemokine ligand 24) and Ccl13 (C-C motif chemokine ligand 13) were upregulated by 1.5- and 1.8-fold (P=.035 and .027, respectively), whereas that of Il1a (interleukin 1 alpha) was paradoxically downregulated by 2.2-fold (P=.037) in the diabetic vs nondiabetic group. Interestingly, strong positive correlations were found between the expression of Ccl13, Setdb2 (SET domain bifurcated histone lysine methyltransferase 2), and M2 macrophage markers, and between the expression of Il1a, Fosl1 (activator protein-1 transcription factor subunit), and dendritic cell markers, suggesting the involvement of macrophages and dendritic cells in the diabetes-dysregulated proinflammatory response. Supportively, apoptotic cell clearance, which is an important function of macrophages, appeared to be impaired in the diabetic group, with a significantly increased protein level of CALR (calreticulin), an "eat-me" signal on the surface of apoptotic cells (P=.031), along with an increase of AXL (AXL receptor tyrosine kinase) (P=.030), which mediates apoptotic cell clearance.Diabetes was associated with altered long-term inflammatory response in complicated mesh implantation, particularly involving innate immune cell dysfunction. Suboptimal blood glycemic control following mesh implantation may contribute to this immune dysregulation, necessitating further mechanistic studies.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skin fibrosis is characterized by the excessive accumulation of extracellular matrix (ECM) caused by fibrotic disorders of the skin. In recent years, ECM stiffness has emerged as a prominent mechanical cue that precedes skin fibrosis and drives its progression by promoting fibroblasts activation. However, how stiffness influences fibroblasts activation for skin fibrosis progression remains unknown. Here, we report a positive feedback loop mediated by the mechanosensitive ion channel Piezo1 and aberrant tissue mechanics in driving skin fibrosis. Piezo1 is upregulated in fibrotic skin in both humans and mice. Piezo1 knockdown dermal fibroblasts lose their fibroproliferative phenotypes despite being grown on a stiffer substrate. We show that Piezo1 acts through the Wnt2/Wnt11 pathway to mechanically induce secretion of C-C motif chemokine ligand 24 (CCL24, also known as eotaxin-2), a potent cytokine associated with fibrotic disorders. Importantly, adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated Piezo1 knockdown ameliorated the progression of skin fibrosis and skin stiffness in mice. Overall, increased matrix stiffness promotes skin fibrosis through the inflammatory Piezo1-Wnt2/Wnt11-CCL24 pathway. In turn, a stiffer skin microenvironment increases Piezo1 expression to exacerbate skin fibrosis aggression. Therefore, targeting Piezo1 represents a strategy to break the positive feedback loop between fibroblasts mechanotransduction and aberrant tissue mechanics in skin fibrosis.© 2024. The Author(s).
The prognostic significance of CDC42 effector protein 2 (CDC42EP2) and its association with tumor-infiltrating immune cells (TIICs) have not been explored in liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC). This study aims to assess the potential prognostic value of CDC42EP2 by conducting a comprehensive analysis of online databases pertaining to LIHC.We evaluated the potential of CDC42EP2 as a prognostic biomarker by utilizing online databases such as TIMER, GEPIA2, KM, OSlihc, HPA, and LinkedOmics.In LIHC, we observed that the mRNA and protein expression of CDC42EP2 were upregulated compared to normal tissues. Upregulated CDC42EP2 expression was associated with a worse prognosis based on the clinicopathological characteristics of patients with LIHC. Furthermore, CDC42EP2 was positively associated with TIICs. In the co-expression and functional enrichment analyses of CDC42EP2, 11,416 genes showed positive associations with CDC42EP2 while 8,008 genes showed negative associations. CDC42EP2-related co-expression genes were involved in protein localization to the endoplasmic reticulum, translational initiation, and RNA catabolic processes in gene set enrichment analysis-Gene Ontology (GSEAGO), and regulated the ribosome, spliceosome, and primary immune deficiency in the GSEAKyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway. In a survival map, 23 and 17 genes that exhibited positive associations with CDC42EP2 showed a significant hazard ratio (HR) for overall survival and disease-free survival, respectively.Our findings demonstrated that CDC42EP2 is a novel prognostic biomarker and a potential tumor immune therapeutic target in patients with LIHC.
Acute lung injury (ALI) involves severe lung damage and respiratory failure, which are accompanied by alveolar macrophage (AM) activation. The aim of this article is to verify the influence of paralemmin-3 (PALM3) on alveolar macrophage (AM) polarization in ALI and the underlying mechanism of action.An ALI rat model was established by successive lipopolysaccharide (LPS) inhalations. The influence of PALM3 on the survival rate, severity of lung injury, and macrophage polarization was analyzed. Furthermore, we explored the underlying mechanism of PALM3 in regulating macrophage polarization.PALM3 overexpression increased mortality of ALI rats, augmented lung pathological damage, and promoted AM polarization toward M1 cells. Conversely, PALM3 knockdown had the opposite effects. Mechanistically, PALM3 might promote M1 polarization by acting as an adaptor to facilitate transduction of Notch signaling.PALM3 aggravates lung injury and induces macrophage polarization toward M1 cells by activating the Notch signaling pathway in LPS-induced ALI, which may shed light on ALI/ARDS treatments.Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The intricate interaction between spermatogonial stem cell (SSC) and testicular niche is essential for maintaining SSC homeostasis; however, this interaction remains largely uncharacterized. In this study, to characterize the underlying signaling pathways and related paracrine factors, we delineated the intercellular interactions between SSC and niche cell in both adult mice and humans under physiological conditions and dissected the niche-derived regulation of SSC maintenance under recovery conditions, thus uncovering the essential role of C-C motif chemokine ligand 24 and insulin-like growth factor binding protein 7 in SSC maintenance. We also established the clinical relevance of specific paracrine factors in human fertility. Collectively, our work on decoding the adult SSC niche serves as a valuable reference for future studies on the aetiology, diagnosis, and treatment of male infertility.
Clearance of dead cells by efferocytosis is a critical process for homeostasis, notably by limiting inflammation. Defective efferocytosis has been associated with autoimmune, neurodegenerative, and cardiovascular diseases, as well as chronic infections, making its regulation a potential therapeutic target. Here, we identify circulating cochlin LCCL (Limulus factor C, Cochlin, and Lgl1) domain as a regulator of efferocytosis. Using cell binding assay for recombinant cochlin LCCL domain, we establish its tropism for dead or dying cells of both immune and non-immune lineages from murine and human origins. By three independent functional assays, we demonstrate that endogenous and exogenous cochlin LCCL domain enhances macrophage efferocytosis in vitro and in vivo in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammation and intranasal Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection, to a similar extent as the efferocytosis promoter GAS6. Our findings provide a role of cochlin LCCL domain in the regulation of efferocytosis, alongside its already described pro-inflammatory role, as an immunomodulator for host response and homeostasis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Plexin-B1 is a transmembrane receptor that integrates signals from Rho-family and Ras-family (Rap1b) GTPases to regulate cellular processes. While ligand simulated activation of the receptor is largely understood, the role of membrane composition and GTPase allosteric effects on plexin structure, internal protein dynamics, and function is still to be elucidated. Here, we performed multi-replica, 1 μs all-atom simulations of Plexin-B1-GTPase complexes on PIP2- and PIP3-containing membranes to investigate the effects of these two signaling lipids, as well as on the GTPases. We found that both Rap1b and Rnd1 stably associate with the membrane, with PIP2 promoting broader lipid engagement and stronger Rap1b-Plexin-B1 interactions, whereas PIP3 enhances Rnd1-Plexin contacts and induces a membrane proximal orientation of Plexin's juxtamembrane helix and makes contacts with a previously discovered activation switch loop. Contact map and network analyses revealed lipid-dependent shifts in allosteric communication, with PIP2 favoring Rap1b-centric hotspots and PIP3 favoring Rnd1-centric pathways. These predictions allow us to suggest a model for plexin intracellular region activation where both the identity of phosphoinositides and GTPase context synergistically stabilize Plexin-B1 membrane engagement, alter structural dynamics, and allosteric networks. Thus, we propose that the membrane is an active modulator of plexin receptor signaling.
Youth-onset type 2 diabetes (T2D) is characterized by accelerated β-cell decline and early treatment failure, and there is an urgent need to improve the understanding of molecular drivers of loss of glycemic control (LOGC).To identify multiprotein signatures associated with loss of glycemic control (LOGC) in youth-onset T2D.Longitudinal observational study with a mean follow-up of 10.8 ± 3.8 years using data from the TODAY study, with external validation in three youth cohorts and one adult-onset T2D cohort.Multicenter clinical research study.Participants from the TODAY study (N = 374; age 14 ± 2 years; 37% male), of whom 72% experienced LOGC over 10.8 ± 3.8 years.None.LOGC, defined as HbA1c ≥ 8% for ≥6 months or inability to discontinue insulin after acute metabolic decompensation.Plasma proteomics quantified 7604 aptamers representing 6596 proteins using the SomaScan 7 K platform. Sixty-seven proteins were associated with LOGC after false discovery rate correction and multivariable adjustment. Key proteins included plexin-B2 (HR: 1.46 [95% CI: 1.29-1.66]) and semaphorin-6A (HR: 1.31 [1.18-1.47]), which were also associated with glycemic outcomes in independent youth and adult cohorts. Enrichment analyses implicated pathways related to axon guidance, immune response, inflammation, and metabolism.Novel proteins involved in axon guidance, immune response, inflammation, and metabolism associated with LOGC in youth-onset T2D with proteins demonstrating consistent associations across the lifespan and proteomic platforms.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com. See the journal About page for additional terms.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42340468 is a review article
Skeletal muscle atrophy is a debilitating condition associated with diverse diseases and clinical interventions. Although triggers such as glucocorticoid excess or direct muscle injury disrupt the balance between protein homeostasis and tissue repair, the upstream molecular signals that actively preserve muscle integrity remain largely unknown. Semaphorin 4A (Sema4A) is a Class IV transmembrane semaphorin traditionally recognized for its roles in neural development and immune regulation; however, its function in skeletal muscle maintenance has not been explored.We first examined Sema4A expression in established models of muscle catabolism. Subsequently, adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated Sema4A restoration was employed to evaluate its therapeutic potential in both dexamethasone-induced atrophy and acute injury mouse models. Mechanistic studies were performed in C2C12 myotubes using gain- and loss-of-function approaches.Sema4A expression was significantly downregulated under atrophic conditions (p < 0.05). Restoration of Sema4A effectively attenuated dexamethasone-induced muscle loss (4.766 vs. 5.075 mg/g B.W., p = 0.0414) and accelerated functional recovery (6.219 × 10-2 vs. 7.124 × 10-2 N/g B.W., p = 0.0422). We identified Plexin B2 (Plxnb2) as the functional receptor mediating these effects. At the molecular level, Sema4A signalling suppressed FoxO3a nuclear translocation (FoxO3a positive cells: vector-Dex 27.99% vs. OE-Sema4A-Dex 12.49%, p < 0.05), thereby inhibiting the expression of key atrogenes, while simultaneously reactivating the PI3K-AKT-mTOR anabolic pathway. This reprogramming of intracellular metabolic signalling was further associated with the establishment of a reparative immune microenvironment, a process potentially modulated by muscle-derived factors such as Gdf15.Our study identifies Sema4A as a novel protective regulator that mitigates muscle atrophy and enhances regeneration through a dual mechanism: restoring intracellular anabolic signalling and fostering a proregenerative immune niche. These findings highlight Sema4A as a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of muscle-wasting disorders.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cachexia, Sarcopenia and Muscle published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Acute kidney injury (AKI) is characterized by a rapid decline in renal function, often associated with tubular cell death. Insulin-induced gene 1 (Insig1), a key regulator of cholesterol metabolism, has not been previously implicated in AKI pathogenesis.This study examines the role of Insig1 in AKI and its underlying mechanisms.We combined tubule-specific Insig1 knockout mice subjected to cisplatin or ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury with in vitro tubular cell models to define its role in AKI. Proteomics identified Insig1-interacting targets, and pathway inhibition validated the therapeutic potential in cisplatin-AKI mice.We observed significant downregulation of Insig1 in renal biopsies from AKI patients and in mouse models of cisplatin- or I/R-induced AKI. Conditional knockout of Insig1 in renal tubular epithelial cells markedly ameliorated kidney injury in these murine models. Mechanistically, Insig1 was found to interact with death-associated protein kinase 3 (Dapk3), a pro-apoptotic factor, thereby stabilizing Dapk3 protein levels. Knockdown of either Insig1 or Dapk3 in mouse renal tubular epithelial cells (mPTC) attenuated cisplatin-induced cell apoptosis, while their overexpression exacerbated cellular injury. Furthermore, pharmacological Dapk3 inhibition with HS148 recapitulated the renoprotective effects of Insig1 ablation in cisplatin-induced AKI mice.Our results unveil a novel Insig1/Dapk3 axis as a critical regulator of AKI progression, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target in clinic.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The initiation and resolution of acute inflammatory responses rely on highly orchestrated biochemical and cellular programs, in which a finely tuned repertoire of mediators regulates the dynamics, migration, and effector functions of immune cells in space and time. Persistent, incompletely resolved inflammatory reactions disrupt this delicate homeostatic equilibrium and foster the development of severe acute and chronic diseases. Central mediators that terminate inflammatory responses and actively transition them into resolution are therefore of paramount importance. These include not only specialized pro-resolving lipid mediators but also peptide and protein mediators, cytokines with context-dependent pro-resolving function, stromal and neuronal signals, as well as cell-intrinsic resolution mechanisms such as efferocytosis, metabolic reprogramming, and tissue-repair programs. Innate and adaptive immune cells integrate these signals and, as major sources and effectors of pro-resolving mediators, drive clearance of harmful stimuli and dying cells and foster tissue repair. Within this broader network of pro-resolving pathways, neuronal guidance proteins (NGPs) are increasingly recognized as critical regulators of immune cell positioning and function that act far beyond their classical roles in axon guidance and are now regarded as integral components of the active inflammation-resolution program. This chapter interrogates the fundamental biology of selected NGPs-including Netrin-1, repulsive guidance molecule A (RGM-A), Semaphorin 7A (Sema7A), Neogenin (Neo1), and Plexin C1 (PLXC1)-and delineates their dual roles within inflammatory and resolution programs, with particular emphasis on how these cues sculpt leukocyte trafficking, promote cellular clearance, and drive immune cell reprogramming along the temporal axis from the early phase of acute inflammation to the restoration of tissue homeostasis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Postprandial variability in glucose and protein levels is one of the elements of insulin resistance (IR) and prediabetes, which is an area precursor to type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM). The objective of the study was a comprehensive proteomic analysis according to glucose tolerance in the general population who did not self-report DM or other diseases. We used Olink® Reveal, a novel, high-throughput platform by Olink Proteomics based on their Proximity Extension Assay (PEA), to identify levels of 1034 circulating proteins in small volumes (4 µL) of plasma samples. The study enrolled 508 participants (mean age 52 ± 10.5 years, 47.2% men) from the population-based study, Bialystok PLUS Polish Longitudinal University Study. The study population was categorized according to glucose metabolism in comparison to impaired fasting blood glucose (IFG), impaired glucose tolerance (IGT), and newly diagnosed DM. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) adjusted for age, weight, fat mass, lean mass, and body mass index (BMI), identified 19 proteins significantly associated with categories of glucose tolerance. Of the five markers with the greatest ability to distinguish newly diagnosed diabetes from non-diabetic participants, paralemmin 2 performed best (AUC = 0.81; 77% sensitivity, 75% specificity), whereas furin was the most accurate for detecting any abnormal glucose regulation (AUC = 0.69). A linear regression model adjusted for the same confounding factors showed statistically significant associations between HbA1c levels and 37 proteins. Our findings highlight multiple proteins with significantly different levels across categories of glucose tolerance, especially between the healthy controls and the group with newly diagnosed DM. The consistent patterns of protein level differences, independent of body composition, suggest potential involvement in the progression of glucose metabolism disturbances and provide unique insights into pathomechanisms. These findings identify PALM2, FURIN, PDZK1, ACAA1, and IL18R1 as potential biomarkers of early dysglycemia.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a highly heterogeneous malignancy that is divided into four consensus molecular subtypes (CMSs), with CMS4 considered to be the worst type of CRC. The CMS classification has not been translated into clinical practice through the transcriptomic data; thus, the identification of a novel biomarker that can identify CRC subpopulations is imperative. Using bioinformatic analysis and immunohistochemical verification, we found that PLXNC1 mRNA and protein expression were significantly up-regulated in CRC tissues. High PLXNC1 was found to be significantly associated with aggressiveness and poor prognosis and thus was confirmed as an independent prognostic factor for CRC. CMS4 CRC could be distinguished from other subtypes based on PLXNC1 expression. The tumor microenvironment was investigated by deconvolution algorithms through bulk and single-cell RNA-sequencing data. CRC with high PLXNC1 expression exhibited a distinct mesenchymal phenotype, accompanied by high infiltration of stromal components, angiogenesis, complement activation, and an immunosuppressive microenvironment. The functions of PLXNC1 were assessed by proliferation, migration, and invasion assays in CRC cells in vitro. A subcutaneous tumor model and liver metastasis model of CRC were generated to explore the effects of PLXNC1 in vivo. Combined with RNA-sequencing analysis, PLXNC1 promoted CRC growth and metastasis by regulating epithelial-mesenchymal transformation and immune escape. Knockdown of PLXNC1 reduced the CMS4-related phenotypes in CRC. In vitro co-culture and in vivo experiments revealed that PLXNC1 could impair the cytotoxicity of CD8+ T cells, thus facilitating immune evasion by CRC cells. We demonstrate that PLXNC1 may predict poor prognosis of CRC, exhibit pro-oncogenic effects, and accelerate tumor immune escape in CRC progression. Our study uncovers a novel biomarker for CMS4 CRC and suggests PLXNC1 as an indicator for prognosis and a potential drug target of high-risk CRC.© 2025 The Authors.
Adipose tissue innervation is critical for regulating lipolysis, adipogenesis, and thermogenesis, yet the mechanisms that establish and maintain these neural networks remain poorly understood. Semaphorin 7A (Sema7A) is a well-characterized axon guidance and neuroimmune signaling molecule that is highly expressed in adipose tissue. Sema7A regulates adipocyte metabolic processes, including lipid accumulation and thermogenic gene expression, via Integrin β1 signaling. However, its potential role in shaping adipose tissue innervation and coordinating neural-metabolic communication has not been explored.In this study, we investigated a knockout of Sema7A in mice, and its influences on adipose tissue innervation and metabolic regulation during postnatal development and in adulthood, both under baseline conditions and following cold exposure, a potent activator of sympathetic nerve activity and axonal remodeling in scWAT.Deletion of Sema7A increased adiposity at postnatal day 21, marked by enlarged subcutaneous and brown adipose depots and reduced lipolytic enzyme expression. Tyrosine hydroxylase-expressing (TH+), and calcitonin gene-related peptide-expressing (CGRP+) innervation was markedly reduced, indicating dysregulated neuro-adipose communication. Plexin C1, a receptor for Sema7A, was strongly expressed on subcutaneous adipose axons, suggesting direct signaling to support neuronal growth. In adulthood, Sema7A-deficient mice displayed normal metabolic responses to cold exposure but failed to mount the typical increase in sympathetic axon outgrowth within beige regions of scWAT.Together, these findings identify Sema7A as a critical mediator of adipose neural development and remodeling, required for establishing and maintaining proper innervation and metabolic function.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
Persistent, unresolved inflammatory processes disrupt the complex homeostatic state and lead to severe disease, ultimately resulting in organ failure, shock, and death. The mediators that monitor and control the programmed mechanisms in tissue homeostasis and repair remain elusive. A recently discovered group of endogenous proteins, termed neuronal guidance proteins (NGPs), has gained attention as important mediators of immunoregulation and tissue homeostasis through their role in the complex interplay between metabolic reprogramming and immunity. In murine peritonitis, the deficiency of the NGP Plexin C1 (PLXC1−/−) led to an increase in neutrophil and Ly6Chi monocyte recruitment to the injury site and a decrease in the phagocytosis rate. This was accompanied by a decrease in the endogenous biosynthesis of specialized proresolving lipid mediators (SPMs) such as Maresin-1 and Protectin DX and finally by a lengthening of the resolution interval. Peritoneal macrophages (MΦs)PLXC1−/− followed specific strategies to adapt their metabolism to catabolic conditions, by reducing fatty acid oxidation and oxidative phosphorylation, increasing aerobic glycolysis and activation of the pentose phosphate pathway, and disrupting the tricarboxylic acid cycle. The decreased MΦsPLXC1−/− citrate levels corresponded with a lipid mediator profile in which PGD2 and PGE2 were greatly decreased in murine PLXC1−/− peritoneal exudates, indicating a lesser effect on lipid mediator class switching and ultimately the formation of SPMs. Analysis of the related signaling networks indicated mTOR and AKT2 phosphorylation pathways are critical determinants of metabolic reprogramming in activated MΦsPLXC1−/−. These findings highlight a novel role for PLXC1 in regulating the crosstalk between immunometabolism and inflammation resolution programs in severe inflammation.
This work studied the potential of probiotic candidate Limosilactobacillus reuteri E to ameliorate intestinal mucositis in vitro. By PathogenFinder analysis of genome sequence, the strain was not predicted to be pathogenic. Genes responsible for adhesion (MapA, EF-Tu) and immunomodulation (e.g., EpsD, EpsF, EpsC, enzymes responsible for the synthesis of exopolysaccharides) abilities were localized in the strain genome. In the co-cultivation model of Caco-2 cells and L. reuteri E, lactobacilli up-regulated gene expression of occludin and claudin 1 (tight junction proteins) and paralemmin (receptor-like molecule) in Caco-2. The prophylactic and therapeutic potential of L. reuteri E to modulate intestinal mucositis was investigated by its administration to Caco-2 cells before and after 5-FU treatment. In bacteria, both prophylactic and therapeutic approaches resulted in significantly higher levels of EpsF glycosyltransferase gene expression (1.5-fold and 3.4-fold, respectively) compared to lactobacilli co-cultivated with untreated Caco-2 cells. In Caco-2 cells, significantly increased gene expression of occludin and claudin 1 in prophylaxis was observed. Moreover, lactobacilli used in prophylaxis ameliorated 5-FU-induced toxicity in Caco-2 cells, as shown by increased cell viability. This may be related to improved anti-inflammatory-to-pro-inflammatory ratio (higher A20 and IL-10 vs. IL-1β and IL-8 gene expression) observed in prophylactic conditions compared to the therapeutic lactobacilli application to Caco-2 cells. The results obtained suggest that L. reuteri E may be more effective in the prophylaxis of 5-FU-induced intestinal mucositis than in therapeutic use.© 2025. The Author(s).
Ameloblastoma (AM) is a well-known benign odontogenic tumor recognized for its aggressive nature, believed to originate from tooth-forming tissue or the dental follicle (DF). Phosphoproteins are crucial for cellular signaling, enabling intracellular communication and regulating various physiological processes. In cancer, phosphoproteins are fundamental to both pathogenesis and pathophysiology. However, studies on phosphoproteins in AM are still limited. This study aimed to compare phosphoprotein profile and identify the crucial phosphoproteins between AM and DF.The phosphoprotein profiles of seven AM and five DF were discovered using mass spectrometry, and their associated phosphosites were examined by Netphos 3.1. Biological functions were analyzed by Metascape database.Thirteen significant phosphoproteins were found in AM, and six in DF, all of which have phosphorylation sites. For example, among the proteins uniquely identified in AM were SENP1 (Sentrin-specific protease 1), DDX42 (ATP-dependent RNA helicase DDX42), LMBR1L (Protein LMBR1L), Cathepsin H (CATH), and Retinoblastoma-binding protein 5 (RBBP5), whereas those unique to DF included GC-rich sequence DNA-binding factor (GCF), Plexin-C1 (PLXC1), and proline/serine-rich coiled-coil protein 1 (PSRC1), PTHD3 (Patched domain-containing protein 3), and TPC6B (Trafficking protein particle complex subunit 6B). For biological analysis, the enriched terms included processing of capped intron-containing pre-mRNA, signaling by rho GTPases, establishment of organelle localization, signaling by receptor tyrosine kinases and cell morphogenesis.These phosphoproteomic findings provide essential insights into the pathogenesis of AM and warrant further investigation. This is crucial for advancing our understanding of AM biology and identifying potential therapeutic targets.
Recent studies have increasingly demonstrated that circular RNAs (circRNAs) play significant roles in the occurrence and progression of cervical cancer (CC). In CC, circRNAs act as ceRNAs by sponging miRNAs to regulate genes associated with proliferation, migration, and apoptosis, exhibiting both promoting and inhibiting effects on tumor progression. The aim of this study was to clarify the role of hsa_circ_0019686 (named circ-NOLC1) in CC.By conducting an online GEO2R analysis of the expression profile GSE113696 in the GEO database, circ-NOLC1 was selected. The expression levels of circ-NOLC1 in CC cell lines were measured using real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR). The role of circ-NOLC1 in CC was validated through both in vitro and in vivo gain-of-function assays. Bioinformatic analysis, combined with luciferase reporter and RNA Immunoprecipitation (RIP) assays, confirmed that circ-NOLC1 acts as a sponge for miR-330-5p and regulates the expression of paralemmin-1 (PALM). The role of the circ-NOLC1-miR-330-5p-PALM signaling axis in CC was elucidated through the rescue experiments. Relative gene expression levels were measured using RT-qPCR, while relative protein levels were assessed through immunohistochemistry (IHC). CCK-8, wound healing, Transwell, and flow cytometry assays were employed to evaluate CC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, respectively.The expression levels of circ-NOLC1 were dramatically downregulated in CC cells (P < 0.001). Up-regulation of circ-NOLC1 significantly inhibited cell proliferation (P < 0.001), migration (P < 0.01) and invasion (P < 0.01), while promoting cell apoptosis (P < 0.001). In vivo studies showed that up-regulation of circ-NOLC1 suppressed tumor growth (tumor volume: P < 0.001; tumor weight: P < 0.01). Additionally, miR-330-5p was found to be up-regulated in CC (P < 0.001), whereas PALM was downregulated in CC (P < 0.001). The up-regulation of circ-NOLC1 inhibited the expression of miR-330-5p (P < 0.001) and enhanced the expression of PALM (P < 0.001). Rescue experiments further demonstrated that the up-regulation of circ-NOLC1 inhibited CC cell proliferation (P < 0.001), migration (P < 0.001), invasion (P < 0.001), while promoting apoptosis (P < 0.001) through the regulation of the miR-330-5p-PALM pathway.The circ-NOLC1 inhibits CC development through regulating the miR-330-5p-PALM signaling axis. This finding reveals a novel mechanism and identifies potential therapeutic targets, emphasizing the necessity for further regulatory studies and clinical validation.© 2025. The Author(s).
Cyclic Cushing syndrome, a rare endocrine disorder marked by periodic fluctuations of cortisol secretion and clinical manifestations, is diagnostically challenging. This study integrates clinical and multi-omics data to advance early diagnosis. We analyzed four patients with pituitary cyclic Cushing syndrome and fifty-six patients with conventional Cushing disease. Proteomics profiling identified differentially expressed proteins; Annexin A1 expression was validated via immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Single-cell RNA sequencing mapped its cellular origin. Annexin A1 expression was significantly elevated in pituitary tumors and serum of patients with cyclic Cushing syndrome. Serum Annexin A1 measured during the remission phase in patients with cyclic Cushing syndrome demonstrated promising diagnostic ability, and a related diagnostic approach was proposed. Single-cell transcriptomics revealed a distinct Annexin A1-enriched tumor subpopulation, predominantly in patients with cyclic Cushing syndrome. Multi-omics and clinical integration identify Annexin A1 as a diagnostic biomarker for cyclic Cushing disease.© 2026 The Authors.
The prediction of the therapeutic response and of the patient outcome following neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (nCRT) in rectal cancer (RC) is still a challenging issue. The role of Annexin 1 (ANXA1) in the modulation of the tumor cells' growth and metastasis has been recently demonstrated, being associated with aggressive pathological features and poor outcome in specific malignancies. The present study aimed to evaluate the association between ANXA1 expression, survival, and clinicopathological parameters of a group of patients diagnosed with ypT3 locally advanced rectal cancer (LARC) following nCRT. The study group consisted of 60 LARC patients with ypT3 tumor stage showing a tumor fragmentation pattern following nCRT. The clinicopathological characteristics and survival parameters in relation to ANXA1 immunohistochemistry characteristics and its scoring were evaluated. ANXA1 expression in tumor cells showed variable intense luminal membrane or combined luminal membrane and cytoplasmic location, excepting three negative cases. The statistical analysis demonstrated a significant association between high ANXA1 expression and ypN category (p < 0.001), perineural invasion (PnI) (p = 0.002), and lymphovascular invasion (LVI) (p = 0.021). Survival analysis showed that high ANXA1 expression is associated with a reduced overall survival (OS) (p = 0.001), while univariate Cox regression confirmed ANXA1 value as an independent predictor of prognosis (H = 5.922, p = 0.004). Our results support ANXA1 value as a potential biomarker of aggressive tumor behavior and poor prognosis in ypT3 LARC patients, with potential implications in diagnosis stratification, opening the prospective to apply precision oncology strategies. However, further studies are required to certify ANXA1 diagnostic and therapeutic relevance in RC patients.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42509731 is a review article
S-palmitoylation is a common and reversible post-translational modification. This study aims to elucidate the functional role and mechanism of S-palmitoylation in lenvatinib resistance and lenvatinib-induced immunogenic cell death (ICD) in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Using small interfering RNA (siRNA) screening in HCC cells, zinc finger DHHC-type palmitoyltransferase 16 (ZDHHC16) was identified as a lenvatinib resistance-associated palmitoyl acyltransferase. ZDHHC16 was abnormally overexpressed in both lenvatinib-resistant tissues and cells. ZDHHC16 knockdown improved the sensitivity of HCC cells to lenvatinib. Furthermore, ZDHHC16 knockdown boosted lenvatinib-induced ICD of HCC cells, characterized by an increase in the release of danger associated molecular patterns (DAMPs), including calreticulin (CRT) exposure on the tumor cell surface, high mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), annexin A1 (ANXA1), and adenosine-5'-triphosphate (ATP), as well as an increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, and the secretion of cytotoxic cytokines (tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α and interferon (IFN)-γ). Mechanistically, ZDHHC16 catalyzed the S-palmitoylation of glutathione peroxidase 2 (GPX2) at C67, which prevented ubiquitination-proteasome degradation of GPX2, thereby enhancing its protein stability. Targeting the ZDHHC16-mediated GPX2 S-palmitoylation improved lenvatinib-induced ICD and antitumor immunity, thereby enhancing the efficacy of lenvatinib. Collectively, our findings reveal that ZDHHC16-induced GPX2 S-palmitoylation plays a crucial role in modulating lenvatinib resistance and lenvatinib-induced ICD in HCC. Targeting this pathway is a promising approach to improve lenvatinib's antitumor activity.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is associated with cognitive impairment. Serum biomarkers to detect subclinical brain injury or predict dementia in patients with anticoagulated AF are understudied.This study aimed to quantify neural injury biomarkers and assess their ability to predict incident dementia or moderate cognitive decline in patients with AF.Prospective longitudinal study of 120 patients with AF (mean age 71.1 ± 10.7 years; 62.5% male) without baseline dementia. Assessments at baseline and at 6, 12, and 24 months (60% completed all visits). Cognitive and functional measures included the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), the 11-item cognitive subscale of the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale (ADAS-cog11), the Disability Assessment for Dementia, and quality-of-life measures. Serum biomarkers measured were glial fibrillary acidic protein, neuron-specific enolase (NSE), tau, S100 calcium-binding protein B (S100B), and spectrin N-terminal fragment (SNT145). The primary endpoint was incident dementia (MMSE score <24 with memory-related quality-of-life impact). The secondary endpoint was moderate cognitive decline defined as >30% worsening in ADAS-cog11 or >30% decline in the Disability Assessment for Dementia.Comorbidities were common: hypertension 64.2%, heart failure 23%, diabetes 16%, and sleep apnea 30.8%; 2 had previous stroke. No participants met the criteria for incident dementia; 3 had an MMSE score of <24 without quality-of-life impact. At 24 months, 9 of 72 (12.5%) exhibited moderate cognitive decline by ADAS-cog11. Biomarkers indicated chronic subclinical stress rather than acute injury: S100B was persistently elevated (baseline 0.18 ± 0.23; 24 months 0.18 ± 0.19 pg/mL). SNT145 was elevated (baseline 2.85 ± 3.73; 24 months 2.36 ± 1.86 ng/mL). NSE and tau remained within normal ranges; inflammatory markers were persistently elevated. Changes in biomarker levels did not correlate with cognitive decline.Over 2 years, dementia incidence was low but 12.5% experienced moderate cognitive decline. Persistent elevations of S100B and SNT145 suggest ongoing subclinical brain injury in patients with anticoagulated AF without acute spikes in traditional stroke markers such as NSE.Copyright © 2026 Heart Rhythm Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Traumatic brain injury disrupts large-scale brain networks. Dynamic functional connectivity captures time-varying network interactions from functional MRI (fMRI) and provides insights into the brain's dynamic patterns of integration and segregation. Here, we investigate dynamic functional connectivity in subacute moderate-severe traumatic brain injury patients (10 days to 6 weeks post-injury) and explore the relationships with blood and imaging biomarkers of injury and propofol sedation. We hypothesized that traumatic brain injury patients would show less complex brain state dynamics that would be associated with greater injury severity measured by white matter integrity and blood biomarkers. Sixty-five subacute traumatic brain injury patients and 48 healthy controls underwent structural and resting-state fMRI. Patients were followed-up at 6 and 12 months post-injury. Plasma concentrations of neurofilament-light chain, microtubule-associated protein, glial fibrillary acidic protein, ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase L1, and serum S100 calcium-binding protein B were measured. Fractional anisotropy (FA), a measure of white matter integrity, was derived from diffusion-weighted imaging for a set of white matter tracts. Dynamic functional connectivity analysis was performed using a sliding-window approach. Correlations between time courses of 19 regions of interest representing the default mode network, bilateral frontaloparietal networks, and the salience network were calculated, and k-means clustering was applied to these connectivity matrices. Temporal characteristics of the resulting brain states, including fraction time, dwell time, number of transitions, and entropy of state transitions, were calculated. Four distinct brain states were identified. Brief periods of anticorrelation between key large-scale networks that support cognitive control were a dominant feature. Traumatic brain injury resulted in reduced temporal flexibility, less anticorrelated activity, and fewer transitions. Reduced entropy of state transitions was significantly associated with elevated blood-based biomarkers and reduced white matter integrity. Propofol sedation markedly reduced entropy. Dominance analysis identified glial fibrillary acidic protein, an astroglial plasma marker, as the strongest predictor of entropy. Preserved entropy during the subacute period was a significant predictor of 12-month functional outcomes. Entropy normalization at 6 months was associated with changes in glial fibrillary acidic protein, ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase L1, and microtubule-associated protein over the same time period. We show that dynamic functional connectivity is disrupted following moderate-to-severe traumatic brain injury and these effects are exacerbated by sedation. The observed reductions in brain state entropy indicate a loss of network segregation and a shift toward less complex and more predictable brain activity, with important implications for prognosis.
Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) are key components of the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME) and represent attractive therapeutic targets to enhance antitumor immunity. However, systemic TAM-depletion strategies targeting colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF1R) are associated with the risk of off-target toxicity due to the depletion of macrophages in healthy tissues. Here, we investigated the potential of near-infrared photoimmunotherapy (NIR-PIT) as a strategy for selective, photo-induced elimination of TAMs. The Fab fragment of an anti-CSF1R antibody was conjugated with the photosensitizer IRDye 700DX (IR700), and the therapeutic effects of the conjugate were evaluated in a murine cancer model. Upon NIR light irradiation, Fab-IR700 significantly suppressed tumor growth and improved overall survival of the tumor-bearing mice. Notably, repeated NIR-PIT cycles enhanced therapeutic outcomes and induced durable anticancer effects, as indicated by the rejection of reimplanted cancer cells. Flow cytometry and histological analyses confirmed TAM depletion and significant alterations in the intra-tumoral immune cell populations posttreatment. Overall, CSF1R-targeted NIR-PIT can effectively eliminate TAMs without systemic toxicity, thus presenting a promising strategy to remodel the TME toward an antitumor state and synergize with other immunotherapies against refractory tumors.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
Microglia play a pivotal role in the pathophysiology of ischemic stroke, with substantial microglial demise occurring following cerebral ischemia. This study examined whether colony-stimulating factor 1 (CSF-1) and interleukin-34 (IL-34), ligands of the colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF1R) critical for microglial survival, promote microglial proliferation and ameliorate outcomes after ischemic stroke. In a mouse model of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO), endogenous CSF-1 levels showed dynamic changes within the first 24 h post-ischemia. Administration of CSF-1, but not IL-34, significantly improved neurological outcomes and reduced infarct volume. CSF-1 treatment was associated with a less reactive microglial morphology and an anti-inflammatory, homeostatic microglial phenotype. In vitro, CSF-1 enhanced Ki67 expression in oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD)-exposed microglia, while decreasing pro-inflammatory cytokine production and excessive phagocytosis of neuronal debris. Conditioned medium from CSF-1-treated microglia and co-culture experiments further indicated that increased microglial numbers contribute to reduced OGD-induced neuronal apoptosis. Collectively, these findings suggest that CSF-1 fosters a neuroprotective microglial phenotype during acute ischemia, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic agent to mitigate ischemic brain injury through modulation of microglial proliferation and inflammatory responses.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a major cause of cancer-related mortality, particularly in patients with advanced disease. Although colony stimulating factor 1 (CSF1) has been implicated in tumor progression, its role in CRC remains unclear. In this study, we showed that CSF1 was significantly upregulated in CRC tissues and cell lines, and that high CSF1 expression was associated with adverse clinicopathological features and poorer patient outcomes. Functional assays demonstrated that CSF1 promoted CRC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and xenograft tumor growth. Importantly, CSF1 also suppressed ferroptosis, as evidenced by reduced reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation, lipid peroxidation, malondialdehyde (MDA) production, and Fe2+ levels after CSF1 overexpression, whereas CSF1 knockdown produced the opposite effects. Mechanistically, CRC cells secreted CSF1, as confirmed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and expressed colony stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF1R), supporting a tumor-cell-intrinsic autocrine CSF1/CSF1R signaling mechanism. This autocrine signaling activated the Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (JAK/STAT3) pathway, while blockade of CSF1R or inhibition of JAK/STAT3 signaling reversed CSF1-induced malignant phenotypes and ferroptosis resistance. Further rescue experiments showed that Ferrostatin-1 (Fer-1) alleviated ferroptosis induced by CSF1 knockdown or JAK/STAT3 inhibition. In addition, signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) overexpression upregulated glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) and acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 3 (ACSL3), linking STAT3 activation to anti-ferroptotic effector regulation. Collectively, these findings identify a tumor-cell-derived CSF1/CSF1R-JAK/STAT3 autocrine signaling axis that promotes CRC progression by suppressing ferroptosis, providing a potential therapeutic target for overcoming ferroptosis resistance in CRC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Prostate cancer remains a major cause of cancer-related mortality, and new therapeutic strategies are needed for advanced disease. Niclosamide and related salicylanilide compounds have emerged as multitarget anticancer agents, but the molecular contexts associated with their activity remain incompletely understood. Here, we applied a phenotype-oriented integrative framework to characterize the molecular context and phenotypic activity of NSC828786, a niclosamide-like salicylanilide derivative. Cross-cohort transcriptomic analyses identified AMACR (alpha-methylacyl-CoA racemase) and HPN (hepsin) as consistently upregulated genes in independent prostate adenocarcinoma cohorts. NCI-60 profiling demonstrated broad-spectrum low-micromolar antiproliferative activity, including AR-negative prostate cancer and breast cancer cell lines spanning multiple receptor subtypes; however, quantitative ranking did not support preferential receptor subtype selectivity. CellMiner COMPARE analysis showed no significant correlation between baseline AMACR or HPN expression and NSC828786 sensitivity. Structure-based analyses supported computational compatibility of NSC828786 with predicted HPN- and AMACR-associated binding regions, while zebrafish assays showed no overt developmental abnormalities at concentrations ≤ 5 μM. These findings identify NSC828786 as a phenotypically active salicylanilide derivative and position HPN and AMACR as exploratory candidate molecular associations warranting further mechanistic and target engagement studies.
Targeting the colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF1R) to remove tumour-associated macrophages is being explored as cancer therapy. This strategy may be relevant for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), which strongly depends on support from myeloid cells. However, it is unclear how CSF1R expression affects the CLL microenvironment and leukaemic progression. To examine this question, we created Eμ-TCL1 transgenic mice for CLL with Csf1r haploinsufficiency to investigate changes in myeloid cells, Csf1r expression and leukaemia progression. Csf1r haploinsufficiency reduced Csf1r expression on circulating monocytes, but did not significantly impair its expression in tissue macrophages or change the overall numbers of monocytes or macrophages in blood and lymphoid tissues. Eμ-TCL1 transgenic mice with lower Csf1r levels had less leukaemia during early disease, but this effect faded with disease progression, and their overall survival was similar to controls. Furthermore, in vitro co-culture demonstrates that depletion of CSF1R expression on cell lines did not affect the survival or migration of patient-derived CLL cells. In summary, our results show that while the CSF1R pathway is important for maintaining the myeloid cells that support CLL, simply reducing CSF1R expression has only a limited effect on disease progression. Attempts to target the CSF1R for leukaemic therapy might benefit from a stronger depletion of macrophages or the combination with other agents.© 2026 The Author(s). British Journal of Haematology published by British Society for Haematology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42501956 is a review article
Colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor-related adult-onset leukoencephalopathy with axonal spheroids and pigmented glia (CSF1R-ALSP) is a rare, fatal, autosomal-dominant neurodegenerative disorder caused by pathogenic CSF1R variants and characterized by progressive cognitive, neuropsychiatric, and motor dysfunction, white matter lesions on brain imaging, and white matter demyelination, swollen axons, and pigmented glial cells on pathology. Limited data regarding clinical, biofluid or radiological biomarkers of disease severity are available, and no clinical trial endpoints have yet been validated. The objectives of this first-of-its-kind, prospective, observational natural history study were to characterize the clinical trajectory of CSF1R-ALSP and to identify and evaluate key biomarkers and clinical endpoints indicative of disease severity and progression. ILLUMINATE (NCT05020743) was a multicentre, noninterventional natural history study of adults with CSF1R-ALSP and prodromal carriers of CSF1R variants. Participants were followed for up to 36 months, with clinical assessments, fluid biomarkers and volumetric MRI assessments of brain atrophy collected at screening and every 6 months. This study was terminated early (4 June 2025). The analyses reported here include data collected through 19 February 2025. Of 53 participants, 19 were prodromal and 34 were symptomatic (11 of whom had a history of haematopoietic stem cell transplant and 23 who did not). Mean participant age was 47.8 (standard deviation, 4.5) years, and 36.4% were female. Prodromal participants remained relatively stable over 36 months, with little change in neurological function, neurodegeneration biomarkers or radiological disease burden. Impaired neurological function, MRI characteristics of CSF1R-ALSP, and elevated NfL (neurofilament light chain; neurodegeneration biomarker) and GFAP (glial fibrillary acidic protein; astrogliosis biomarker) levels were more pronounced at baseline and often showed progression over time among symptomatic participants who had not previously received haematopoietic stem cell transplant compared with participants who had previously received haematopoietic stem cell transplant. Significant correlations were observed at baseline and longitudinally between MRI measures of brain atrophy and clinical outcome measures. Based on the fluid biomarkers, MRI measures, and clinical outcome assessments evaluated here, active neurodegeneration, widespread changes visualized on brain MRI, and impaired cognitive and motor function were observed in symptomatic patients with CSF1R-ALSP. The neurological impairment can be assessed using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment and Cortical Basal ganglia Functional Scale. Our data suggest that quantification of brain atrophy using MRI volumetry is a potential biomarker of disease severity and progression in CSF1R-ALSP. It is hoped that this report will contribute to the understanding of disease progression in CSF1R-ALSP and inform future drug development.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain.
Colony-stimulating factor-1 receptor (CSF1R) provides essential signals for macrophage and osteoclast proliferation, differentiation, and survival, but the roles of CSF1R+ macrophages and osteoclasts during limb morphogenesis are understudied. Here, we utilized a pharmacological model by feeding the CSF1R inhibitor PLX5622 to pregnant mice across gestation to examine how CSF1R disruption impacts embryonic limb development. CSF1R-expressing cells were significantly depleted in response to PLX5622 exposure, including a complete loss of embryonic osteoclasts and osteoclastic activity in the developing limb bones. Although the gross morphology of limb nerves, muscles, cartilage, and bone appeared intact between embryonic day 11.5 (E11.5) and E15.5, prenatal PLX5622 exposure resulted in a completely penetrant truncated phenotype for all postnatal day 1 (P1) limb bones analyzed, suggesting that CSF1R+ cells play important roles in mediating limb bone formation during late embryogenesis. Interestingly, strain-specific defects were observed in the heel, where most of the CD1 mice presented with absent talus and underdeveloped calcaneus bones, while the C57BL/6 mice presented with milder developmental disruptions in both bones. Taken together, our data demonstrate that PLX5622 effectively depletes CSF1R-expressing macrophages and osteoclasts in embryonic limbs and suggest an essential role for embryonic CSF1R+ cells in driving limb bone morphogenesis.
Doxorubicin is a widely used chemotherapeutic agent, but its clinical application is hindered by severe cardiotoxicity. Among immune cells, Cx3cr1+ macrophages have emerged as key regulators of cardiovascular disease, with their development and maturation tightly controlled by CSF1R (colony stimulating factor 1 receptor). Using multi-omics sequencing, we observed a marked expansion of Cx3cr1+ macrophages in doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy, yet their precise functional role in this pathological process has remained elusive. This study employed various genetically modified mouse models, including cell depletion models, lineage tracing models, and conditional gene knockout models targeting Cx3cr1+ macrophages, alongside transcriptomic sequencing, proteomic profiling, and multi-level in vivo and in vitro experiments to elucidate the role and mechanisms of Cx3cr1+ macrophages and their receptor CSF1R in doxorubicin-induced cardiac injury. We found that Cx3cr1+ macrophages are significantly enriched in hearts affected by doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy, and their depletion notably improves cardiac function. Further investigation revealed that in these macrophages, CSF1R competitively binds to the E3 ubiquitin ligase NEDD4, thereby inhibiting the ubiquitination and degradation of PARP1. This process promotes inflammasome activation and pyroptosis, driving massive IL1B secretion. IL1B directly suppresses cardiomyocyte mitophagy, disrupts energy metabolic homeostasis, and ultimately leads to cardiac dysfunction. Notably, the use of the CSF1R inhibitor PLX3397 or an IL1B-neutralizing antibody effectively halted these pathological processes and significantly improved cardiac function. In summary, this study unveils a novel mechanism through which Cx3cr1+ macrophages regulate cardiomyocyte function via the CSF1R-PARP1-IL1B-mitophagy signaling axis, providing a new theoretical foundation and intervention strategy for doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy targeted therapy.Abbreviations: BMDM: bone marrow-derived macrophages; CKMB: creatine kinase MB isoenzyme; CSF1R: colony stimulating factor 1 receptor; csf1r-cKO: csf1r conditional knockout; DIC: doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy; DOX: doxorubicin; HE: hematoxylin and eosin; HW:TL: heart weight:tibial length; LDH: lactate dehydrogenase; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtuble-associated protein 1 light chain 3; NPPA: natriuretic peptide type A; PI: propidium iodide; PYCARD/ASC: PYD and CARD domain containing; TNNT2/cTnT: troponin T2, cardiac; WGA: wheat germ agglutinin.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42479455 is a review article
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) constitutes a major inducer of neuroinflammation within the initial 24 h, peak microglial reactivity by day 3 post-injury, and cytokine production through day 7. However, the precise underlying pathophysiology driving immune cell infiltration, inflammatory cascades, and subsequent neuronal damage remains incompletely defined. This study aims to investigate whether C-C motif chemokine ligand 3 (CCL3) plays a functional role in TBI-induced neuroinflammation and associated neuronal injury.Datasets of RNA-seq analysis used were: GSE58485 is mice neocortex at 3 days post-TBI, GSE92363 is rat hippocampus at day 1 post-TBI, and GSE59645 is rat hippocampus at day 14 post-TBI. GEO datasets, GSE92363 and GSE59645, sequencing analysis of the normal rat hippocampus were merged to provide a baseline to identify key differentially expressed genes (DEGs). DEGs were used to perform functional annotations through Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway analyses, execute gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), and construct protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks. Microglia HAPI cells and H19-7 cells co-culture system was used to functionally validate microglia-derived neuroinflammatory damage mechanisms on neuronal cells.For screening of DEGs related to TBI, we first performed an integrated analysis of the GSE92363 and GSE59645 datasets. Initial-phase TBI exhibited characteristic immune landscape alterations, marked by significant macrophage and neutrophil infiltration with concurrent M1 macrophage polarization. GSEA further revealed microglial phagocytic pathway dysregulation as the most profoundly perturbed signaling cascade in TBI pathogenesis. Subsequently, we identified CCL3 as a master regulatory hub orchestrating TBI progression with PPI analysis. In HAPI cells, short hairpin RNA-mediated CCL3 knockdown effectively attenuated lipopolysaccharide-induced pro-inflammatory cytokine elevation and suppressed nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain, leucine-rich repeat, and pyrin domain-containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome pathway activation. In the HAPI-H19-7 (neuron) co-culture system, CCL3 silencing demonstrated significant neuroprotection by mitigating H19-7 neuronal apoptosis.CCL3 functions as a key regulatory chemokine orchestrating NLRP3 inflammasome-mediated microglial activation in post-TBI neuroinflammation. Inhibition of CCL3 may be a promising therapeutic target for ameliorating secondary neuronal injury following TBI.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) has become the most prevalent type of heart failure, a condition characterized by impaired diastolic function and elevated left ventricular stiffness. TPM1 (tropomyosin 1), a crucial part of the thin filament in cardiomyocytes, has multiple alternative exons. However, the impact of TPM1 alternative splicing (AS) in HFpEF remains unclear.We examined cardiac myofiber disarray in HFpEF using transmission electron microscopy. Nanoindentation was used to detect myocardial compliance. Using genetically engineered (adenovirus-associated virus serotype 9) mouse models and human pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes, we investigated the role of TPM1 isoforms and its upstream SRPK3 (serine/arginine rich protein kinase 3). Subsequently, the underlying mechanisms were investigated using RNA pulldown, mass spectrometry, AS analysis, and other molecular techniques.We identified unique myofilament disorders in HFpEF and observed upregulation of the TPM1b isoform, which skips exon 9a through AS, in both patients with HFpEF and mouse models. Cardiomyocyte-specific overexpression of distinct TPM1 isoforms showed that TPM1b (without exon 9a) exacerbated HFpEF phenotypes in mice and human pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes. Furthermore, we found that the splicing kinase SRPK3 mediates the AS of TPM1 exon 9a. Cardiomyocyte-specific overexpression of SRPK3 induced myofiber disarray and diastolic dysfunction, whereas SRPK3 knockdown ameliorated these pathological phenotypes. Supplementation with TPM1 containing exon 9a partially rescued the diastolic dysfunction under conditions of SRPK3 overexpression. Preventive intervention experiments demonstrated that inactivating SRPK3 can alleviate diastolic dysfunction in the HFpEF mouse model.AS of TPM1 exon 9a is a critical pathogenic mechanism in myofilament disorder and diastolic dysfunction in HFpEF, which is dependent on the upstream splicing kinase SRPK3. SRPK3 may represent a novel therapeutic target for HFpEF.
Intestinal permeability dysfunction is a central pathogenic driver of Crohn's disease (CD), fueling microbial translocation, chronic inflammation, and progressive tissue injury. While current therapies suppress inflammation, none directly restore epithelial barrier function. Importantly, in patients with CD, epithelial barrier healing rather than mucosal healing is associated with long-term remission and a reduced risk of disease complications. Yet permeability barrier healing remains an unaddressed therapeutic target in CD. Here, we investigated whether pharmacologic inhibition of the integrated stress response (ISR) and RIPK3-mediated necroptosis, 2 convergent pathways of epithelial injury, can promote epithelial viability, regeneration, and barrier integrity in CD.We employed villin-1/gelsolin double knockout mice with epithelial-intrinsic ISR activation, Tnf ΔARE/+ mice with chronic inflammation, and CD patient-derived enteroids (PDEs). Animals and PDE were treated with integrated stress response inhibitor, RIPK3 inhibitor necrostatin-1, or US Food and Drug Administration-approved cancer drugs pazopanib and ponatinib, repurposed as potent RIPK3 inhibitors. Epithelial survival, regenerative growth (enteroid formation, budding), and barrier function (transepithelial electrical resistance) were assessed.Chronic ISR activation and necroptosis were prominent in both murine models and CD PDEs, causing epithelial death, Paneth cell expansion, impaired enteroid survival, and regenerative failure. Pharmacologic inhibition with integrated stress response inhibitor, necrostatin-1, pazopanib, or ponatinib restored villus architecture, reduced inflammation, enhanced epithelial survival and regeneration, and significantly improved transepithelial electrical resistance.ISR activation and RIPK3-mediated necroptosis converge to drive epithelial injury and barrier dysfunction in CD. Repurposing pazopanib and ponatinib offers a potentially translatable approach to restore barrier integrity in CD.© 2026 The Author(s).
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) link the Tropomyosin 1 (Tpm1) locus to quantitative blood trait variation, but related mechanisms are unclear. Tpm1 encodes an actin-binding protein that regulates actin filament diversity, cell adhesion, signaling, and actomyosin contractility. Murine Tpm1 deficiency enhances hemogenic endothelial cell (HEC) specification, but it was unclear if these effects extended to postnatal hematopoiesis. We used Cdh5Cre and VavCre models to conditionally knock out Tpm1 (Tpm1KO) in endothelial anor hematopoietic cells. Both models ablate Tpm1 in postnatal blood. Endothelial Tpm1KO increases HEC specification without altering hematopoietic progenitor cell production or adult blood counts, suggesting separate roles for Tpm1 in the embryonic and adult blood systems. Tpm1KO increases adult platelet lifespan and diminishes adhesion to fibronectin and fibrinogen. Chemical Tpm1 inhibition also reduces focal adhesion in murine and human platelets. Altered platelet morphology and reduced platelet spreading suggest perturbed actomyosin contractility underlies these findings. Platelet fibrin binding promotes blood clot contraction, which reduces occlusive thrombosis. Tpm1KO limits clot contraction and worsens vascular occlusion in ferric chloride-induced stroke models. In addition to offering a mechanistic explanation for why genetic variation at the TPM1 alters platelet traits in GWAS, our findings reveal novel roles for Tpm1 in clot contraction and thrombosis.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
White matter alteration caused by abnormal myelination is a major contribution to the pathophysiology of autism spectrum disorder (ASD). We previously reported that mice prenatally exposed to valproic acid (VPA) showed increased expression of C-C motif chemokine ligand 3 (CCL3) in the developing hippocampus, and that antagonizing C-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5), a CCL3 receptor, recovered neural circuit dysfunction. Therefore, we investigated the effects of CCL3 on oligodendrocyte differentiation. Treatment of the rat oligodendrocyte precursor cell (OPC) line CG4 and mouse primary OPC with CCL3 promoted CG4 migration. Conditioned media from BV-2 and primary microglia also promoted CG4 migration, and this promotion was cancelled by the CCR5 antagonist, maraviroc. CCL3 inhibited the differentiation of primary OPCs into mature oligodendrocytes. Therefore, microglia-derived CCL3 acts directly on OPCs by promoting their migration and inhibiting their differentiation. In organotypic whole-brain slice cultures, the expression of mature oligodendrocyte markers and the stained area of myelin basic protein (MBP) increased in a time-dependent manner. Treatment of slices with CCL3 reduced the expression of mature oligodendrocyte markers and the area of MBP staining. These changes were reversed by maraviroc pretreatment. In mice prenatally exposed to VPA, the expression of mature oligodendrocyte markers was reduced, myelin was thinner at 10 days of age, and axonal diameter was reduced at 8 weeks of age compared with control mice. These abnormalities were ameliorated by maraviroc treatment. Collectively, CCL3 interferes with oligodendrocyte maturation, thereby delaying axonal myelination and resulting in neural circuit dysfunction mediated by VPA.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) remains a therapeutic challenge due to chemoresistance and immunosuppression. This study aimed to discover novel regulatory mechanisms in AML pathogenesis.Integrative transcriptomic (GSE30029) and proteomic (PXD008378) analyses with machine learning (LASSO, SVM-RFE, random forest) were performed to identify core AML regulators. Functional validation was conducted in AML cell lines (HL-60, NB4), including cell proliferation and apoptosis assays, cytarabine (Ara-C) sensitivity testing, and a subcutaneous xenograft model. Macrophage polarization was evaluated in co-culture systems. Molecular mechanisms were explored via MeRIP, RIP, and mRNA stability assays.Tropomyosin 1 (TPM1) was identified as a potential key factor in AML. TPM1 was downregulated in AML tissues and cells. TPM1 overexpression inhibited AML cell proliferation, promoted apoptosis and oxidative stress, and enhanced sensitivity to Ara-C. Furthermore, TPM1 upregulation attenuated M2 macrophage polarization. Mechanistically, the m6A eraser fat mass and obesity-associated protein (FTO) destabilized TPM1 mRNA in an m6A-dependent manner. Downregulation of TPM1 reversed the effects of FTO depletion on AML cell proliferation, Ara-C sensitivity, and M2 macrophage polarization.This study unveils a novel FTO/m6A/TPM1 axis that coordinately governs AML cell growth, chemosensitivity, and macrophage polarization, highlighting it as a promising therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s).
Retinitis pigmentosa (RP), the most prevalent inherited retinal degeneration, features progressive photoreceptor loss with no approved disease-modifying therapies. While microglia-driven neuroinflammation accelerates RP progression, its sustaining mechanisms remain elusive. Through integrated multiomics profiling of retinal degeneration 10 (rd10) mice, we identify tropomyosin 1 (TPM1) as a previously unrecognized cytoskeletal-immune regulator orchestrating spatial neuroinflammation in RP. Genetic ablation of Tpm1 attenuated microglial reactivity and preserved vision, whereas overexpression triggered self-reinforcing inflammation via four interlocked axes: (i) TPM1-mediated activator protein-1 (AP-1) hyperactivation initiates senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) through mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase 3-dependent MAPK signaling; (ii) SASP subsequently mediates reduced phagocytosis; (iii) Tpm1-Apoe/Fabp5 axis disruption precipitates lipid droplet accumulation with cholesterol crystallization; (iv) galectin-9 (LGALS9)/CD45-mediated intermicroglial signaling propagates inflammatory signals across the retina. Our work redefines TPM1 as a linchpin in self-sustaining neurodegeneration cycles, where cytoskeletal dysfunction fuels immunometabolic collapse. These findings unveil precision therapeutic strategies targeting TPM1 hubs-notably the LGALS9/CD45 axis-to disrupt inflammatory cycles while preserving retinal homeostasis.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a diverse group of neurodevelopmental disorders that share similar behavioral patterns. Many individuals with ASD also exhibit gastrointestinal disturbances, likely linked to alterations in the composition and activity of intestinal bacteria, resulting in the overproduction and release of toxic metabolites into the systemic circulation. These toxins may reach the central nervous system (CNS) and activate microglia, which release inflammatory cytokines, ultimately impairing neuronal function. This microbiota-gut-brain axis has been suggested to play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of ASD. Para-cresol (p-Cresol) is one of these intestinal metabolites and could potentially contribute to ASD, as its urinary levels are elevated in autistic children under the age of 8 and correlate with symptom severity. Here, we aim to investigate the effect of p-Cresol on various brain-cell types to speculate on their specific contributions to ASD-related synaptic dysfunctions. Immunocytochemistry assays revealed a significant decrease in excitatory (vesicular glutamate transporter VGLUT, postsynaptic density protein 95 PSD95) and inhibitory (vesicular GABA transporter VGAT) synaptic markers in p-Cresol-treated neurons during synaptogenesis. These effects were exacerbated in SH3 and multiple ankyrin repeat domains 3 (Shank3) knockdown neurons, which exhibit increased susceptibility of their synapses. p-Cresol also induced a dose-dependent inflammatory response in both astrocytes and microglia, characterized by the overexpression and release of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines such as interleukin 6 (IL6), interleukin 1β (IL1β), and C-C- motif chemokine ligand 3 (CCL3). Our results suggest that p-Cresol exerts cell-specific effects on astrocytes and microglia, and the release of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines in response to p-Cresol treatment may contribute to synaptic dysfunction, in addition to its direct effect on neurons.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Neurochemistry published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of International Society for Neurochemistry.
Inflammatory plasma proteins have been associated with poorer clinical outcomes in melanoma patients treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs). Furthermore, the plasma levels of thymidine kinase activity (TKa), an indicator of proliferation, have also been associated with adverse outcomes in several cancers. The aim of this study was to explore the relationship between TKa, systemic inflammation and survival in ICI-treated melanoma patients.Fifty-eight patients with unresectable metastatic melanoma who received anti-programmed cell death protein 1 monotherapy were included in the study. Pretreatment plasma samples were analyzed for TKa levels (DiviTum® TKa assay; Biovica) and inflammatory proteins using the Olink® Target 96 Inflammation panel, and these biomarkers were correlated with patient survival.A panel of five unfavorable biomarkers was selected, comprising TKa, C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 8, C-C motif chemokine ligand 3, hepatocyte growth factor and S100 calcium-binding protein A12. An increasing number of elevated biomarkers in the panel was associated with a progressively worse prognosis. In the univariate analysis, when patients with four to five unfavorable biomarkers were compared with those with none, the hazard ratio (HR) was 2.43 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.91-6.44, P = 0.075] for progression-free survival (PFS) and 10.62 (95% CI 3.11-36.26, P < 0.001) for overall survival (OS). When adjusting for sex, age, stage and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), the HR was 1.97 (95% CI 0.61-6.41, P = 0.26) for PFS and 11.03 (95% CI 2.53-48.12, P = 0.001) for OS.This multi-biomarker panel was independently associated with poor OS in ICI-treated melanoma patients. This finding suggests a prognostic value of the panel, indicating its potential relevance for stratifying patients by risk, although further validation in larger cohorts is warranted.© 2026 The Author(s).
Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) drive cancer progression and metastasis. However, the mechanisms by which tumor cells shape TAM phenotypes in canine cancers remain poorly understood. We investigated correlations between cancer cell gene expression and macrophage polarization to identify potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets. Tumor-conditioned media from 25 canine cancer cell lines were applied to monocyte-derived macrophages from three canine donors for 24 hours. Following washout, supernatants were analyzed for immunomodulatory cytokines and chemokines. Each cell line's polarization capacity was ranked using modified z-scores, then correlated with RNA-sequencing data through Spearman's correlation and differential expression analysis. Cancer cell lines showed marked heterogeneity in macrophage polarization capacity, largely independent of histologic type. MVB12A, a gene involved in exosome biogenesis, strongly correlated with vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) stimulation, suggesting exosome-mediated polarization mechanisms. Exosome fractionation experiments confirmed that purified exosomes induced significantly more macrophage VEGF secretion than other conditions, and high-MVB12A cell lines showed greater VEGF enrichment in exosomes. C-C motif chemokine ligand 3 (CCL3) was strongly correlated with tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) secretion exclusively in histiocytic sarcoma cells, and recombinant CCL3 induced dose-dependent TNF-α secretion from macrophages. High-polarizing cell lines exhibited upregulation of macrophage activation, epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT), and metabolic reprogramming genes, and downregulation of immune surveillance and cell adhesion genes. Gene set enrichment analysis confirmed pathways for immune suppression, EMT, and extracellular matrix remodeling. These findings identify exosome-associated VEGF stimulation as a previously uncharacterized mechanism in canine tumors and highlight CCL3 as a potential histiocytic sarcoma-specific driver of macrophage TNF-α secretion. Further validation in canine clinical cohorts will determine whether these pathways can serve as biomarkers or therapeutic targets in veterinary oncology.Copyright: © 2026 Brady et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Osteoporosis (OP) occurs with decreased bone mass and deterioration of the bone microarchitecture. This can lead to an increased incidence of bone fractures. In traditional Chinese medicine, the herbal pair of Eucommia ulmoides and Achyranthes bidentata is used to tonify the liver and kidney in order to strengthen bones. This study examined the network pharmacology and molecular docking of the pair to investigate the pharmacological mechanisms of the drug pair against OP. Active compounds were retrieved from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology database if they had an oral bioavailability of 30% or greater and a drug-likeness score of 0.18 or greater. OP-associated targets were identified from the GeneCards and Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man databases. The compound-target-disease network and protein-protein interaction network were built using Cytoscape and the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins, respectively. Key pathways were identified using the Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery functional enrichment analysis. To predict the potential binding interactions between the major compounds and the hub targets, molecular docking was used. In total, 49 active compounds (28 from E ulmoides and 21 from A bidentata) and 95 overlapping therapeutic targets were found. Quercetin, kaempferol, β-sitosterol, stigmasterol and wogonin were identified as key bioactive components within the network analysis. Fourteen hub targets, including interleukin-6, vascular endothelial growth factor A, tumor necrosis factor, tumor protein p53, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, were identified through protein-protein interaction analysis. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment revealed involvement in tumor necrosis factor, mitogen-activated protein kinase, hypoxia-inducible factor 1, Toll-like receptor, and NOD-like receptor signaling pathways. Molecular docking demonstrated favorable binding affinities between the key compounds and core proteins, suggesting potential interactions consistent with the network pharmacology predictions. The Eucommia-Achyranthes herbal pair may exert potential therapeutic effects on OP through multicomponent, multi-target, and multi-pathway interactions. Its main bioactive compounds may potentially interact with inflammatory and osteogenic signaling pathways via key targets such as interleukin-6, vascular endothelial growth factor A, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, tumor protein p53, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, which may be associated with bone metabolism and structural integrity. These findings provide a theoretical foundation for future experimental and clinical validation.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Knee osteoarthritis (KOA) is the most common joint disorder and causes pain and functional limitation. Patients who are refractory to conservative treatment or unsuitable for surgery owing to advanced age or comorbidities have limited options. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is implicated in synovitis, angiogenesis and pain in KOA. microRNA (miRNA) based therapies have recently attracted attentions. This study aimed to investigate whether intra-articular delivery of VEGF-targeting miRNA can reduce synovitis and pain.Human synovial sarcoma cell line HS-SY-II was used for screening of VEGF-targeting miRNAs and primary synovial fibroblasts derived from KOA patients was used for confirmation of the efficacy. miRNA mimics were transfected and VEGF production was quantified. In vivo analyses, KOA was induced by anterior cruciate ligament transection and medial meniscectomy (ACLT model). Wistar rats were randomly allocated to 5 groups in 2 cohorts (n = 5 per group per cohort): normal (no ACLT), ACLT + negative control miRNA (NC), ACLT + miR-126-3p, ACLT + miR-140-5p, and ACLT + a combination of miR-126-3p and miR-140-5p (miR-Mix). miRNA mimics were injected intra-articularly. Hindlimb weight-bearing was assessed using incapacitance tester. Synovitis and cartilage degeneration were evaluated histologically. VEGF levels in synovial fluid, synovium and cartilage were quantified by Simple Western analysis. Non-parametric tests and repeated-measures analyses were performed, with p < 0.05 considered statistically significant.Combination of miR-126-3p and miR-140-5p suppressed VEGF production in HS-SY-II cells than either miRNA alone and the suppressive activity on VEGF production was confirmed in primary synovial fibroblasts from KOA patients. In ACLT rats, synovial VEGF levels were increased in NC group compared with normal rats and tended to be lower in all miRNA-treated groups. Hindlimb weight-bearing ratios were reduced to about 30% after ACLT and remained low in the NC group, whereas they gradually improved in the miR-126-3p and miR-140-5p monotherapy groups and almost recovered in the miR-Mix group. At final time point, weight-bearing ratio was significantly higher in miR-Mix group than NC group. Histologically, Krenn scores were tend to lower in miR-126-3p and miR-Mix groups than NC group, indicating amelioration of synovitis, whereas OARSI histopathology scores for femoral cartilage did not differ significantly among groups and tended to be higher in miR-treated groups. There was a strong negative correlation between Krenn synovitis score and hindlimb weight-bearing ratio (Spearman's ρ = -0.7, p < 0.001).Intra-articular administration of VEGF-suppressive miR-Mix ameliorated synovitis and pain-related behaviour. In highly unstable traumatic model, however, structural protection of articular cartilage was not observed and cartilage degeneration even tended to be worse in miR-treated groups, possibly due to increased weight-bearing following pain relief.These findings suggest intra-articular delivery of VEGF-suppresive miRNAs may represent novel analgesic strategies for KOA by reducing synovitis within joint. miRNA-based modulation of VEGF production could potentially be translated into future disease-modifying and analgesic treatments, however further studies using non-traumatic KOA models, safety evaluation and clarifying molecular mechanisms are required.© 2026 The Authors.
Pancreatic islet transplantation can restore insulin production in patients with severe diabetes, but donor material is scarce, and early engraftment is constrained by inflammatory and mechanical stress and a prolonged avascular phase, during which oxygen and nutrient delivery are limited by diffusion. Revascularization relies primarily on stress-induced vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A), prolonging metabolic compromise, increasing autophagic burden, and rendering grafts vulnerable to secondary stress. Accelerating vascular integration during this time window is therefore critical for graft health. We show that β-cell-targeted aptamer-VEGF-A small activating RNA (saRNA) chimeras selectively induce robust VEGF-A expression in mouse and human islets independently of hypoxia- or nutrient-stress pathways, without activating autophagy or stress-responsive genes. In vivo, chimera-primed islets transplanted into anterior chamber and kidney capsule models exhibited accelerated vascular migration, earlier perfusion, and faster resolution of LC3-dependent autophagic stress without altering endpoint vascular density. Functionally, marginal-mass mouse and human grafts restored glucose control more effectively, preserved intra-islet architecture, and delayed hyperglycemia following STZ-induced β-cell loss. The RNA chimera's modular architecture of RNA chimeras allows transient, tissue-adaptable transcriptional activation across species and cell sources. These findings establish that brief, ex vivo RNA-mediated priming preconditions islets to withstand early engraftment stress, enhancing vascular integration and functional outcomes. This scalable, stress-independent strategy may lower the minimum effective transplant mass and expand access to cellular therapies for diabetes.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42546175 is a review article
Bevacizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody against vascular endothelial growth factor A. Its long half-life and low volume of distribution allow circulating drug to persist in the body for weeks, which becomes clinically relevant when urgent or emergent surgery is needed. Because bevacizumab is largely intravascular, therapeutic plasma exchange (TPE) is attractive, though published experience is limited. We describe four adults who underwent TPE to facilitate surgery or postoperative wound healing after bevacizumab exposure: two with glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) before craniotomy, one with GBM after bowel resection with primary anastomosis, and one with metastatic rectal adenocarcinoma before craniotomy for a hemorrhagic brain mass. Patients received one to three sessions with albumin replacement, with fresh frozen plasma added in one case. No postoperative hemorrhage or delayed wound healing occurred. These cases support a practical role for TPE when residual bevacizumab exposure remains relevant and awaiting spontaneous clearance is not feasible.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Cannabidiol (CBD), a major non-psychoactive phytocannabinoid derived from Cannabis sativa L., has shown therapeutic potential in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). However, the mechanisms by which CBD modulates synovial angiogenesis remain unclear.This study aimed to investigate whether CBD attenuates RA progression by suppressing synovial angiogenesis and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms.An adjuvant-induced arthritis (AIA) rat model was established to evaluate the therapeutic effects of CBD in vivo using arthritis scoring, micro-CT, and histopathological, immunohistochemical, and immunofluorescence analyses. In vitro, cytotoxicity was determined using the CCK-8 assay, followed by evaluations of CBD's direct effects on the proliferation, migration, invasion, and inflammatory responses of RA fibroblast-like synoviocytes (RA-FLS) were evaluated, alongside Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) for cytotoxicity screening. Furthermore, the paracrine regulation of angiogenesis was assessed using a conditioned medium (CM) transfer system from hypoxia-stimulated RA-FLS applied to human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Molecular mechanisms were analyzed via Western blotting, RT-qPCR, ELISA, co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), molecular docking, and targeted proteasome inhibition (MG132).In vivo, CBD (5 and 10 mg/kg) treatment markedly alleviated joint inflammation, synovial angiogenesis, and structural bone destruction in AIA rats. In vitro, non-cytotoxic concentrations of CBD (2.4-4.8 μM) significantly suppressed aberrant RA-FLS proliferation, migration, invasion, and pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion. Mechanistically, CBD abrogated the hypoxia-induced accumulation of hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) protein in RA-FLS without significantly altering HIF1A mRNA expression. This reduction was effectively reversed by MG132. Co-IP and molecular docking analyses revealed that CBD directly enhances the polyubiquitination of HIF-1α through stable structural interactions, driving a ubiquitin-proteasome-dependent degradation mechanism. Consequently, CBD dose-dependently decreased the extracellular secretion of vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) and angiopoietin-2 (ANG-2) from RA-FLS. Functionally, CM from CBD-treated RA-FLS disrupted the pro-angiogenic paracrine crosstalk-independent of direct CBD carryover-significantly impairing HUVEC migration, capillary-like tube formation, and downstream VEGFR2 (Tyr1175) phosphorylation.CBD attenuates RA pathogenesis not only by directly suppressing RA-FLS hyperactivity but also by severing the pro-angiogenic paracrine crosstalk between RA-FLS and endothelial cells. These effects are driven by the ubiquitin-proteasome-dependent degradation of HIF-1α in RA-FLS via direct structural engagement, which depletes VEGFA/ANG-2 production and subsequent endothelial VEGFR2 activation. These findings highlight CBD as a promising disease-modifying anti-angiogenic therapeutic agent for RA.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Wet age-related macular degeneration (wAMD) is a leading cause of irreversible vision loss characterized by pathological choroidal neovascularization (CNV). While anti-VEGF therapies are the standard of care, limitations such as treatment resistance and side effects necessitate novel therapeutic agents. This study evaluates the therapeutic efficacy and mechanism of EV30, a novel pterostilbene derivative, in suppressing CNV. EV30 was synthesized based on the pterostilbene template. In vitro, the effects of EV30 on human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) proliferation, migration, and tube formation were assessed using Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), scratch wound, and tube formation assays, respectively. Mechanistic pathways were investigated via Western blotting and RT-qPCR. In vivo, a laser-induced CNV mouse model was treated with intravitreal EV30. Efficacy was evaluated utilizing fundus photography, fluorescein angiography (FFA), optical coherence tomography (OCT), and choroidal flat mounts (IB4 staining). Finally, biosafety was assessed through histology (H&E), electroretinography (ERG), and blood analysis. EV30 demonstrated potent anti-angiogenic properties in vitro, significantly inhibiting HUVEC proliferation, migration, and tube formation in a dose- and time-dependent manner. EV30 reduced vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) expression and modulated the phosphorylation status of proteins associated with the mTOR/NF-κB/p38 MAPK signaling pathway. In the laser-induced CNV model, EV30 effectively reduced lesion area and vascular leakage comparable to bevacizumab. Furthermore, ERG analysis revealed that EV30 partially preserved retinal electrophysiological function, as indicated by improved scotopic a-wave amplitudes, suggesting functional protection of the retina in the CNV model. EV30 exerted anti-angiogenic effects and was associated with modulation of mTOR/NF-κB/p38 MAPK signaling activity. Together, these findings suggest that EV30 represents a potential therapeutic candidate for CNV by suppressing pathological angiogenesis and modulating inflammation-associated signaling pathways.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Chronic intrauterine hypoxia (IUH) is a cause not only of early postnatal mortality but also of delayed central nervous system (CNS) impairments in offspring, including increased risks of acute cerebrovascular disorders, epilepsy, and neurodegenerative diseases. The above necessitates the urgent development of targeted neuroprotective strategies for newborns following IUH. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the neuroprotective effects of the 70 kDa heat shock protein (HSP70) modulators (angiolin, thiotriazolin, cerebrocurin, tamoxifen, glutaredoxin, and heat shock factor 1 (HSF-1)), as well as reference drugs, based on their impact on molecular markers of endothelial dysfunction (vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A), endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), nitrotyrosine), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), nerve growth factor (NGF), and caspase-8 in the brains of offspring after IUH at 1 and 2 months of age.Chronic hemic IUH was modeled in pregnant rats by daily administration of sodium nitrite (50 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) on days 16-21 of pregnancy. The male offspring were treated with the study drugs for 30 days starting on P1. Brain homogenates of offspring at P30 and P60 were analyzed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for VEGF-A, eNOS, iNOS, nitrotyrosine, BDNF, NGF, and caspase-8.IUH caused persistent endothelial dysfunction, characterized by decreased VEGF and eNOS levels, and nitrosative stress, associated with increased iNOS and nitrotyrosine levels. These changes were accompanied by decreased neurotrophin levels, including BDNF and NGF, and increased caspase-8 levels. Course administration of angiolin, cerebrocurin, HSF-1, thiotriazolin, and glutaredoxin improved the eNOS/iNOS balance, increased VEGF levels, and decreased nitrotyrosine levels, with the effect persisting until P60. Cerebrocurin and angiolin demonstrated the strongest recovery of neurotrophic factors (normalization or exceeding normal BDNF/NGF levels by P60) and effectively suppressed caspase-8 to near-normal levels. A positive correlation was established between BDNF, NGF, and HSP70 levels.Pharmacological modulators of HSP70 provide effective multimodal neuroprotection due to endothelioprotective and neurotrophic effects. Angiolin and Cerebrocurin demonstrate significant therapeutic potential, offering a promising strategy for mitigating the long-term neurological sequelae of IUH.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
To investigate the impact of VEGFA and EGF genetic polymorphisms on postoperative survival, susceptibility, transcriptomics, and systemic proteomic regulation in cholangiocarcinoma (CCA).Angiogenesis and growth factor signaling via vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) and epidermal growth factor (EGF) are key drivers of CCA biology, yet the clinical relevance of their genetic variants remains poorly defined.A cohort of 221 patients undergoing curative-intent CCA resection at Charité-Berlin was analyzed. Patients were genotyped for 6 angiogenesis-related SNPs, including VEGFA rs3025039 and EGF rs4444903, and survival associations were assessed using Cox regression. The prognostic relevance of intratumoral VEGFA and EGF mRNA expression and pathway co-expression was evaluated in an independent transcriptomic cohort. Population-level associations with CCA susceptibility and serum proteomics were analyzed in the UK Biobank (n>500,000).The VEGFA rs3025039 T allele was associated with improved cancer-specific survival, particularly in intrahepatic CCA, while the EGF rs4444903 G allele was linked to improved survival in perihilar CCA. High intratumoral VEGFA or EGF expression correlated with poorer survival in external validation, but this association was lost for EGF after multivariable adjustment. VEGFA -high tumors showed increased proliferative and suppressed immune transcriptional signatures, whereas EGF -high tumors displayed limited changes. UK Biobank analysis revealed increased intrahepatic CCA susceptibility among VEGFA T allele carriers, while the EGF G allele was associated with elevated circulating EGF levels.VEGFA and EGF polymorphisms exert distinct effects on CCA, influencing disease susceptibility, postoperative outcomes, and systemic signaling, supporting their potential as biomarkers for clinical stratification.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42521061 is a review article
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are central mediators of intercellular communication that originate from diverse membrane reservoirs. EV biogenesis can occur via multiple pathways, including outward budding of the plasma membrane (PM) and fusion of mature endosomes with the PM. The present study investigates how cells balance these competing routes using a genome-wide CRISPR activation screen for factors that alter surface expression of CD63-an EV-associated tetraspanin that shuttles between the PM and endosomes. This unbiased strategy identifies the membrane adaptor MARCKSL1 known to be upregulated across diverse tumor types. Overexpression of MARCKSL1 elevates CD63 abundance at the PM and boosts EV secretion. Proximity-based proteomics implicates the cytoskeleton-PM linker Radixin and the SNARE-associated protein STXBP3 as MARCKSL1 binding partners that respectively promote either PM-derived or endosome-derived EV secretion. Collectively, our findings reveal new insights into PM remodeling and position MARCKSL1 as a gauge between distinct EV biogenesis platforms.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42501258
To investigate the expressions of cofilin-1 (CFL1) and its phosphorylated form p-CFL1 in colon cancer, their relationship with clinicopathological features and patient prognosis, and their regulatory roles in colon cancer cell migration.The expression of CFL1 and p-CFL1 and their correlation with clinicopathological parameters were analyzed using the TCGA database and immunohistochemistry of colon cancer tissue microarrays. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis was used to explore the association of CFL1/p-CFL1 expression levels with survival of colon cancer patients. The localization of CFL1 and p-CFL1 in the nucleus and cytoplasm was observed using immunofluorescence staining. Wild-type (CFL1-WT) and nuclear localization signal mutant-type (CFL1-MUT) overexpression vectors were constructed and transfected into HCT116 cells, and the changes in cell migration were assessed using Transwell chamber migration assay. Transcriptome sequencing combined with KEGG enrichment analysis was performed to identify the differentially expressed genes and signaling pathways.Immunohistochemistry results showed significantly increased expressions of CFL1 and p-CFL1 in colon cancer tissues compared with the adjacent tissues (P<0.0001), and their expression levels were positively correlated (r=0.4753, P<0.0001). High expressions of CFL1 and p-CFL1 were significantly correlated with lymph node metastasis, advanced clinical stage, and shorter overall survival of the patients (P<0.05). Immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence staining demonstrated localization of CFL1 and p-CFL1 in both the cytoplasm and nucleus. Functional experiments showed that overexpression of CFL1-WT and CFL1-MUT both promoted HCT116 cell migration, and CFL1-WT exhibited a stronger effect. KEGG analysis suggested that the genes regulated by CFL1-WT were significantly enriched in tumor metastasis-related pathways involving Ras, PI3K-Akt, and cell adhesion molecules.CFL1/p-CFL1 are highly expressed in colon cancer and can be potential biomarkers for poor prognosis. CFL1 overexpression further activates tumor metastasis-related signaling pathways through nuclear localization, thereby promoting colon cancer migration.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) remains a significant clinical challenge due to the lack of actionable targets, dose-limiting cardiotoxicity, and the limited efficacy of single-modality therapies. Doxorubicin (DOX), a first-line chemotherapeutic agent, is constrained by inadequate tumor targeting and systemic toxicity. In this study, we identified an SML peptide with high binding affinity for TNBC through in vitro and in vivo investigations. Fibroblast activation protein-alpha-α (FAP-α), which is highly expressed by cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) within the TNBC tumor microenvironment (TME), was exploited as a tumor-specific trigger for targeted drug release. We developed a TME-responsive self-assembled peptide-based nanoplatform (QGS@DOX, DOX-loaded QGS self-assembled nanocarrier) that integrates g active tumor targeting, FAP-α-triggered cleavage, anti-angiogenic activity, and DOX chemotherapy. QGS@DOX demonstrated enhanced tumor accumulation, prolonged circulation time, and controlled drug release. In vivo, it effectively inhibited tumor growth and metastasis while reducing DOX-induced cardiotoxicity. Mechanistic studies revealed that QGS@DOX suppressed epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), induced immunogenic cell death (ICD), and activated the cGAS-STING pathway, thereby remodeling the TME. Importantly, moesin (MSN) was identified as a novel target of the SML targeting peptide, uncovering a previously unrecognized mechanism for TNBC-specific delivery. To our knowledge, this is the first report of an integrated nanoplatform combining FAP-α responsiveness, SML-MSN targeting, anti-angiogenesis, chemotherapy, and cGAS-STING-mediated immunotherapy for TNBC. These findings present a promising strategy for precise, multimodal treatment of TNBC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Moesin (Msn) is a member of the ERM (Ezrin, Radixin, and Moesin) protein family implicated in cell-cell recognition, cell adhesion, and migration. In this work, we identified Msn as an ανβ3 integrin-interacting molecule in human endothelial cells, with a role in endothelial cell signaling and angiogenesis. Msn and its active phosphorylated form are highly expressed in endothelial cells in vitro and in vivo. Pleiotrophin and vascular endothelial growth factor A165 (VEGFA165), increase Msn phosphorylation and decrease the interaction of Msn with ανβ3 integrin. Downregulation of Msn expression in endothelial cells using siRNA reduced VEGF receptor 2 (VEGFR2) expression and activation. It also decreased permeability, collective cell migration, and tube formation in vitro, concomitant with reduced angiogenesis and blood-brain barrier permeability in Msn knockout mice. Concurrently, it decreased β3 integrin expression, increased the c-Src- and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-dependent cell-surface localization of nucleolin, and activated ERK1/2 kinases and cMet. Pharmacological inhibitors of c-Src, PI3K, cell-surface nucleolin, ERK1/2, and cMet, but not of VEGFR2 or αvβ3 integrin, abolished siMsn-induced individual-cell motility. Taken together, these findings identify a novel binding partner of the αvβ3 integrin that regulates the activation of cMet and VEGFR2 in endothelial cells, clarifying the mechanisms underlying the activation of multiple angiogenic pathways and highlighting potential new targets for improving anti-angiogenic therapies.© 2026. The Author(s).
The escalating global prevalence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) requires the development of sensitive, non-invasive diagnostic strategies capable of detecting pathological changes previous the clinical onset. By exploiting the spontaneous formation of the biomolecular corona (BC) around nanoparticles (NPs), it's possible to capture a rich, disease-specific fingerprint from the plasma that reflects systemic alterations often invisible to traditional diagnostic assays. In the present study, we demonstrate the efficacy of an innovative nanotechnological platform utilizing a synergistic dual-silica NPs system (comprising amino- and sulfonate-functionalized surfaces) integrated with proteomic and lipidomic profiling of the NP-associated BC. Our results revealed a significant enrichment of ribosomal machinery in the BC of AD patients, contrasted by a simultaneous decrease of glycolytic enzymes and mitochondrial respiratory components. This metabolic impairment is further corroborated by the lipidomic profile, which shows a reduction in short-chain acyl-carnitines (C2, C3, C5) and essential membrane phospholipids. Additionally, the observed loss of structural proteins, such as Cofilin-1 and Vinculin, contributes to a comprehensive molecular fingerprint unique to the AD phenotype.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Healthcare Materials published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Despite substantial advances in early detection and therapeutic strategies, breast cancer remains a major cause of cancer-related morbidity and mortality worldwide. Changes in cytoskeletal proteins that typically regulate cellular architecture underpin tumor progression. Merlin, encoded by the NF2 gene and a member of the ezrin-radixin-moesin protein family, functions as a critical cytoskeletal linker protein and a tumor suppressor that governs multiple oncogenic pathways and restricts epithelial-mesenchymal plasticity. While Merlin deficiency alters cellular architecture, the precise impact of a Merlin-deficient breast tumor on remodeling its immune microenvironment remains largely undefined. In this study, we demonstrate that in breast cancer, Merlin deficiency displays attributes consistent with enhanced epithelial-mesenchymal plasticity and enrichment of Hedgehog signaling. In vivo, Merlin-deficient tumors displayed accelerated growth and an immunosuppressive milieu characterized by increased abundance of regulatory T cells and M2-like macrophages. Treatment with Vismodegib, a pharmacological Hedgehog pathway inhibitor, reduced tumor growth of Merlin-deficient basal-like tumors, accompanied by a decrease in tumor-infiltrating regulatory T cells and immunosuppressive M2-like macrophages, and increased recruitment of pro-inflammatory M1-like macrophages. The data present Hedgehog inhibition as a targetable vulnerability of Merlin-deficient basal-like, triple-negative breast cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is a major microvascular complication of diabetes and a leading cause of end-stage renal disease. Reliable biomarkers for early DN detection remain limited. Moesin and podocalyxin, involved in endothelial and podocyte integrity, may contribute to DN pathophysiology. This study evaluated whether serum moesin and podocalyxin levels differ according to the presence of early-stage DN in type 2 diabetes.In this single-center cross-sectional study, 63 patients with type 2 diabetes and 27 healthy controls were included. Diabetic participants were classified as normoalbuminuric diabetes (DM) or microalbuminuric early DN (DNP) based on spot urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio. Serum moesin and podocalyxin levels were measured by ELISA. Group comparisons and regression analyses were performed.Both biomarkers were significantly lower in diabetic patients than in controls (p<0.001), but no difference was observed between DM and DNP after age adjustment. Neither biomarker independently predicted nephropathy. A composite factor including moesin, podocalyxin, age, white blood cell count, and microalbuminuria was associated with DN (OR 4.03, 95 % CI 1.42-11.47, p=0.009).Serum moesin and podocalyxin decrease in type 2 diabetes but do not independently distinguish early DN, suggesting limited kidney-specific utility.© 2026 the author(s), published by De Gruyter, Berlin/Boston.
Lysosomes are critical for neuronal physiology and synaptic function, but their organization and roles within astrocytes, an integral component of the tripartite synapse, remain unknown. Here, we use a neuron-astrocyte coculture system that promotes stellate astrocyte morphology to investigate the trafficking of late endosomes and lysosomes (LELs) in astrocytes. As astrocyte branches mature, degradative activity becomes concentrated in the soma and LELs in branches undergo bidirectional motility that becomes progressively attenuated. We establish that the lysosomal cation channel TRPML1 drives LEL immobilization. TRPML1-mediated arrest involves myosin-Va tethering to the actin cytoskeleton, which may position LELs near peripheral astrocyte processes (PAPs), fine actin-enriched protrusions that can contact synapses. Strikingly, TRPML1 activity modulates the phosphorylation of ezrin, radixin, and moesin, actin-membrane linkers enriched in PAPs. These effects are rapid and transient, suggesting a role for lysosomal TRPML1 in regulating PAP membrane dynamics. Thus, TRPML1 positions LELs proximal to PAPs which may influence PAP structural plasticity and astrocyte-synapse contacts.
To elucidate the key role and underlying mechanisms of C-C motif chemokine ligand 11 (CCL11) in cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs)-mediated prostate cancer (PCa) progression. In this study, we analyzed the dataset GSE85606 and validated the upregulation of CCL11 in CAFs using ELISA and qRT-PCR, demonstrating its strong correlation with established CAF biomarkers. Using CAFs-conditioned medium, recombinant human CCL11, specific siRNA, and CDK5 plasmid or siRNA in PCa cell lines, we investigated the functional role of CCL11. RNA-seq and TCGA database analyses predicted a CCL11's downstream target (CDK5). Transwell, wound healing, and flow cytometry assays, along with Western blot, were employed to assess the effects of CCL11 on migration, invasion, apoptosis, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) pathways. The results indicate that CCL11, predominantly secreted by PCa-derived CAFs, significantly enhances the migration and invasion of PCa cells, suppresses their apoptosis, and activates the EMT pathway, largely through regulating CDK5 expression. Collectively, our findings suggest that CAFs-derived CCL11 may represent a potential therapeutic target for PCa.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s10616-026-01037-0.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Autoimmune thyroiditis (AIT) is characterized by extensive lymphocytic infiltration and progressive destruction of thyroid follicular cells (TFCs), yet the molecular mechanisms underlying persistent thyroid injury remain poorly defined. Here, methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3) mediated N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification is identified as a central driver of thyroid inflammation. METTL3 expression and m6A levels were markedly increased in TFCs from AIT patients and EAT mice, and are positively associated with immune inflammation scores. Genetic or pharmacological inhibition of METTL3 suppressed the KDR (kinase insert domain receptor, also known as vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2, VEGFR2)/VEGFA signaling loop, reduced inflammatory cytokine release and lymphocyte infiltration, restored Th17/Treg homeostasis, and alleviated thyroid injury. Mechanistically, ROS promoted METTL3 transcription through inhibition of SIRT1-dependent epigenetic repression, while METTL3-mediated m6A modification stabilized KDR mRNA in a YTHDC2-dependent manner. In turn, activated KDR established an autocrine-paracrine KDR/VEGFA amplification circuit that sustained inflammatory signaling. Together, these findings uncover the METTL3-KDR axis as a critical epitranscriptomic mechanism driving chronic thyroid inflammation and nominate it as a promising therapeutic target for AIT.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Microvascular dysfunction is an early manifestation of vascular damage in patients with hypertension and cardiometabolic disorders. Insulin resistance (IR) is linked closely to vascular dysfunction, and the triglyceride-glucose (TyG) index is a practical proxy marker of IR. Circulating endothelial progenitor cells (cEPCs) and microvascular reactivity have been proposed as markers of vascular health, but their relationships to IR and high-density lipoprotein functionality, assessed using the cholesterol efflux capacity (CEC), remain incompletely understood. We performed a cross-sectional study of coronary angiography registry data from 259 hypertensive patients with fasting glucose levels ≤ 125 mg/dL. cEPC [cluster of differentiation (CD) 34+/kinase insert domain receptor+/CD133+] levels, microvascular function [reflected by post-occlusive reactive hyperemia (PORH)], the CEC, and the TyG index were measured before catheterization. Weighted multivariable linear regression analyses were performed to examine variable associations. Higher TyG index values were associated independently with lower cEPC levels and impaired microvascular reactivity after adjustment for conventional cardiovascular risk factors. Each 1 standard deviation increase in the TyG index was associated with an 11% decrease in cEPCs and a 6.3% reduction in PORH. The TyG index was not associated with the CEC. These findings were consistent across diabetes and coronary artery disease subgroups. The association of the IR, as reflected by the TyG index, with reduced cEPC levels and impaired microvascular function in this high-risk hypertensive population supports a link between metabolic dysfunction and microvascular impairment; however, causal relationships could not be inferred.© 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Clinical Hypertension published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) is a prevalent subtype of lung cancer, which is primarily characterized by poor prognosis due to the lack of targeted therapies, while a large proportion of patients show limited response to chemotherapy. The present study aimed to identify predictive chemotherapy biomarkers based on genomic alterations in LUSC. Non-negative matrix factorization clustering was applied to classify patients with LUSC into distinct subgroups based on genomic alterations. Subsequently, chemotherapy efficacy was predicted via exploring gene signatures, and the results were validated using The Cancer Genome Atlas database (TCGA). A total of four distinct clusters were classified. Cluster 1 and TP53 loss-of-function (TP53 LOF) variations were each independently associated with poor prognosis, irrespective of clinical stage. Based on the molecular characteristics of the initial clusters, the classification was further refined by further incorporating TP53 LOF and gene amplification (amp). Patients without TP53 LOF, who harbored amplification of at least one of nine specified genes [PIK3 catalytic subunit, cyclin D1, fibroblast growth factor (FGF) 19, FGF3, FGF4, FGF receptor 1, kinase insert domain receptor, KIT proto-oncogene and platelet derived growth factor receptor α] displayed the longest progression-free survival (PFS). By contrast, patients with TP53 LOF but lacking amplification of at least one of nine genes [Amp(9G)] exhibited the worst overall survival compared with the other subgroups. Validation in the TCGA database confirmed the prognostic significance of this classification, with Amp(9G) without TP53 LOF predicting the most favorable PFS, and TP53 LOF without Amp(9G) indicating the least favorable PFS. Therefore, a composite biomarker integrating Amp(9G) and TP53 LOF was identified as a prognostic indicator for patients with LUSC treated with first-line chemotherapy. Overall, the results of the present study suggest that the absence of TP53 LOF combined with the presence of Amp(9G) could be associated with improved response to first-line chemotherapy in LUSC.Copyright: © 2026 Li et al.
Endometriosis (EMs) is characterized by ectopic lesions that disrupt endometrial decidualization, a process frequently accompanied by aberrant collagen deposition and closely linked to clinical infertility. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are key mediators of intercellular communication and contribute to the pathogenesis and progression of EMs. However, whether EVs promote type I collagen deposition in the eutopic endometrium through glycolytic reprogramming and subsequent non-histone lactylation remains unclear. This study reveals that PKM2-carrying EVs derived from ectopic endometrial stromal cells (designated EMs-EVs) are transported via the systemic circulation to eutopic endometrial stromal cells and are internalized. This process upregulates PKM2 in the eutopic endometrium, triggering glycolytic reprogramming and lactate accumulation. The increased lactate level induces lactylation at lysine 1520 (K1520la) of myosin heavy chain 10 (MYH10). This modification not only upregulates α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) but also enhances the binding between MYH10 and α-SMA: an interaction essential for conferring contractile properties to stress fibers. Consequently, these events promote type I collagen deposition and contribute to defective decidualization in the eutopic endometrium. Collectively, our findings demonstrated that EMs-EVs drive endometrial collagen deposition through PKM2-mediated glycolytic reprogramming and subsequent MYH10 K1520 lactylation, thereby deepening our understanding of the role of impaired decidualization in the development of endometriosis-associated infertility.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Allergic conjunctivitis (AC) is a prevalent ocular surface inflammatory disorder with limited therapeutic options. In this study, we investigated the role of colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF1R) in an ovalbumin (OVA)-induced murine model of AC. Conjunctival expression of CSF1R and its ligands, interleukin-34 (IL-34) and colony-stimulating factor 1 (CSF1), was significantly upregulated following OVA challenge. Pharmacological inhibition of CSF1R with BLZ945 alleviated clinical symptoms, reduced the infiltration of CD45⁺ leukocytes and eosinophils, and attenuated an M2-associated macrophage phenotype in the conjunctiva. Similar suppression of eosinophil infiltration was observed with a second CSF1R inhibitor, AZD7507. In addition, conjunctival CD206⁺ macrophages with an M2-associated phenotype expressed C-C motif chemokine ligand 11 (CCL11), which was elevated in AC and downregulated by CSF1R inhibition. Recombinant CCL11 significantly restored eosinophil infiltration in BLZ945-treated mice, supporting a role for CCL11 as a downstream effector of CSF1R signaling in this model. Collectively, these findings support a contributory role for CSF1R signaling in macrophage-associated eosinophilic inflammation in murine AC and suggest that targeting CSF1R may represent a potential therapeutic strategy for ocular allergic disease.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This study employed multi-omics approaches to reveal soybean meal (SBM) -induced alterations in gut microbiota and metabolic disturbances in largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides), providing important insights for aquaculture nutrition. Four isonitrogenous and isolipidic diets, named fishmeal (FM; control), SBM10, SBM30, and SBM50, were formulated by replacing 0, 10%, 30%, and 50% FM with SBM. A total of 240 healthy largemouth bass (initial weight: 11.00 ± 0.20 g) were randomly assigned into four groups, each in triplicate, with 20 fish per tank. The experiment lasted for 56 d. The results demonstrated an inclusion level-dependent reduction in the final average weight, weight gain rate, and specific growth rate as SBM replacement levels increased, with the SBM50 group showing the lowest values (P < 0.05). The plica height, plica width, and the number of goblet cells were significantly lower in the SBM50 group compared to the FM group (P < 0.05). Immunohistochemical results revealed decreased mucin 2 content in the SBM50 group compared to the FM group. Lipopolysaccharide content and fluorescein isothiocyanate-dextran absorbance value in the SBM50 group were significantly higher than those in the FM group (P < 0.05). The intestinal microbiota analysis showed that, compared to the FM group, the SBM50 group exhibited markedly lower abundances of beneficial genera (Roseburia and Lactococcus) but higher levels of potential pathogens (Salmonella and Enterobacter; linear discriminant analysis score > 4.0), with a statistically significant difference (P < 0.05). Metabolomic analysis showed significant differences between FM and SBM50 groups, with decreased levels of indolelactic acid, indole-3-butyric acid, and L-glutamine but elevated soyasaponin Ⅰ, soyasaponin Ⅱ, and linoleic acid levels (P < 0.05). Transcriptome analysis further revealed significant enrichment of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-protein kinase B (PI3K-Akt) and nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells signaling pathway (NF-κB) signaling pathways in the SBM50 group compared with the FM group (P < 0.05). Concurrently, key intestinal epithelial barrier genes, including zonula occludens-1 (zo-1), claudin-1, epithelial cadherin (E-cadherin), and myosin heavy chain 10 (myosin-10), were markedly downregulated (P < 0.05). These results indicate that a substitution level not exceeding 30% did not adversely affect the growth performance of largemouth bass. Higher replacement levels impair growth performance and trigger intestinal inflammation by disrupting gut microbiota homeostasis, altering key metabolites, and compromising intestinal barrier function. These negative effects may be mediated through the downregulation of epithelial barrier-related genes and activation of the PI3K-Akt and NF-κB pathways, necessitating mitigation strategies to maintain gut health.© 2026 The Authors.
To investigate the relationship between insulin resistance (IR) and circulating stem cells and endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) in youth-onset type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).A total of 392 newly diagnosed T2DM patients aged 12-25 years were enrolled. General data, medical history, and anthropometric indices were collected. Blood glucose, lipid profiles, and glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) were measured. IR was assessed using the homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR). Circulating stem cells (CD34+ cells) and EPCs (CD34+ kinase insert domain receptor [KDR]+ cells) were quantified via flow cytometry.When stratified by HOMA-IR tertiles, significant differences were observed across groups in CD34+ stem cells, CD34+ KDR+ EPCs, body mass index (BMI), systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP), triglycerides (TG), total cholesterol (TC), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) (all P < 0.05 or P < 0.01). No significant differences were detected in age, sex, fasting plasma glucose (FPG), or HbA1c. Correlation analysis demonstrated inverse associations of CD34+ stem cells (r = -0.453) and CD34+ KDR+ EPCs (r = -0.531) with HOMA-IR (both P < 0.01), while positive correlations were observed with BMI (-0.327; -0.342), SBP (-0.261; -0.246), DBP (-0.213; -0.269), TG (-0.182; -0.199), TC (-0.221; -0.258), and LDL-C (-0.234; -0.293). HDL-C showed a positive correlation (r = 0.137, r = 0.247, both P < 0.05). No significant associations were found with age, sex, FPG, or HbA1c. In multivariate regression analysis, HOMA-IR remained independently associated with reduced CD34+ stem cells (adjusted β = 1.846, 95% CI: 0.723-4.209, P < 0.05) and CD34+ KDR+ EPCs (adjusted β = 1.985, 95% CI: 0.856-4.843, P < 0.05) after adjusting for BMI, blood pressure, and lipid parameters.Our results indicate that insulin resistance plays a crucial, reversible role in the development of early vascular damage among adolescents with type 2 diabetes. This highlights the importance of implementing early interventions aimed at improving insulin sensitivity in this vulnerable population.HOMA-IR was independently associated with reduced levels of circulating stem cells and EPCs in youth-onset type 2 diabetes, indicating its role as an independent risk factor for vascular endothelial dysfunction in this population.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42497070
Cardiac fibrosis is a pivotal pathological process driving heart failure following ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury. STC1 (stanniocalcin-1), a conserved glycoprotein with mitochondrial regulatory functions, remains unexplored in myocardial fibrosis. This study investigates the mechanistic role of cardiomyocyte-derived STC1 in cardiac fibrosis.Mouse models of myocardial I/R injury were established by left anterior descending coronary artery ligation followed by 24-hour reperfusion. Cardiac-specific STC1 knockdown (adeno-associated virus 9-shSTC1) or overexpression (adeno-associated virus 9-STC1) preceded I/R injury induction. Cardiac function was assessed via echocardiography, and fibrosis was quantified histologically (Masson's trichrome, Sirius red) and molecularly (α-SMA [alpha smooth muscle actin], COL1A1 [collagen type I alpha 1 chain], COL3A1 [collagen type III alpha 1 chain], Smad2 [SMAD family member 2]). In vitro, cardiomyocyte-derived conditioned medium was applied to TGF-β (transforming growth factor beta)-stimulated fibroblasts, supplemented with recombinant STC1 for rescue assays. Protein-protein interactions were analyzed via coimmunoprecipitation and domain-deletion mutants.STC1 deficiency exacerbated post-I/R cardiac dysfunction and fibrosis, accompanied by elevated α-SMA, COL1A1, and phosphorylated-Smad2 levels. Conversely, STC1 overexpression attenuated I/R-induced functional decline and fibrosis. In addition, cardiomyocyte-derived STC1 suppressed TGF-β-driven fibroblast activation and Smad2 nuclear translocation. Mechanistically, STC1 directly interacted with the DOCKER domain of DOCK1 (dedicator of cytokinesis 1), disrupting DOCK1/RAC1-GTP (Rac family small GTPase 1 bound to guanosine triphosphate) signaling. Genetic ablation of the DOCKER domain abolished STC1's antifibrotic effects, restoring RAC1-GTP activity and fibrosis markers.Cardiomyocyte-derived STC1 mitigates cardiac fibrosis post I/R by targeting the DOCK1/RAC1 axis via its interaction with the DOCKER domain. These findings identify STC1-DOCK1 as a novel therapeutic pathway for ischemic heart failure.
T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) is an aggressive hematological malignancy that remains a clinical challenge because of drug resistance and relapse, necessitating deeper insights into the mechanism of leukemogenesis and progression. Connexin 43 (CX43) modulates tumor growth and metastasis by regulating cell-extracellular matrix interactions and the tumor microenvironment, but its role in T-ALL remains unclear. The study aims to investigate the changes in the expression of CX43 in the context of T-ALL, its effect on patient prognosis, and the underlying mechanisms.To investigate the impact of CX43 on survival and relapse, this study retrieved databases to analyze the differential expression of CX43 between patients with T-ALL and healthy individuals, as well as its prognostic implications. Meanwhile, the CX43-overexpressing (CX43OE) and neurogenic locus notch homolog protein 1 (Notch1)-mutant plasmids were used to develop a primary T-ALL knock-in mouse model and investigate the effects of CX43 on T-ALL in vitro and in vivo.The overexpression of CX43 significantly promoted the development and progression of T-ALL and suppressed apoptosis by increasing the stemness of T-ALL cells through the upregulation of Rac family small GTPase 1 (RAC1) expression and the promotion of the phosphorylation of the protein kinase B (AKT)/glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3β) pathway. Targeting the AKT/GSK3β axis attenuated the stemness induced by CX43 overexpression.These findings suggest that targeting CX43-mediated pathways may help overcome leukemia stem cell-driven relapse and improve treatment outcomes in patients with T-ALL.Copyright © 2026 The Chinese Medical Association, produced by Wolters Kluwer, Inc. under the CC-BY-NC-ND license.
Pelvic floor dysfunction (PFD) is a common disease in women that seriously affects physical and psychological health. Menopause-associated estrogen reduction is one of the risk factors. However, the role and mechanism of estrogen in PFD remains unclear. In this study, we observed atrophy of both fast and slow muscle fibers in the pelvic floor muscle (PFM) of ovariectomized rats, accompanied by decreased expression of estrogen receptor α (ERα). Estrogen deficiency severely impaired the proliferation, differentiation, and mitochondrial function of C2C12 myoblasts and increased apoptosis, which could be rescued by ERα agonist. Mechanistically, estrogen deficiency led to the downregulation of ERα, which in turn suppressed the expression of glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4) and its trafficking regulator Rac family small GTPase 1 (RAC1). This disruption abolished the critical co-localization of GLUT4 with RAC1, resulting in defective glucose uptake, mitochondrial dysfunction, and ultimately impaired myoblast proliferation and differentiation. Both ERα activation and GLUT4 overexpression rescued these defects. Thus, our study delineates a novel ERα/GLUT4 pathway that mediates PFM atrophy under estrogen deficiency conditions, providing a potential therapeutic target for PFD.Copyright: © 2026 Huang et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Liver fibrosis is both a pathological feature and an instigator/promoter of chronic liver disease. Hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), by trans-differentiating into myofibroblasts, are the principal mediator of liver fibrosis. In the present study we investigated the involvement of macrophage-derived C-C motif chemokine ligand 7 (CCL7) in this process. We report that mice harboring macrophage conditional knockout (CKO) of BRG1, a chromatin remodeling protein, displayed diminished liver fibrosis compared to wild type littermates. Co-culture with macrophages from WT, but not CKO, mice enhanced HSC-myofibroblast transition. RNA-seq identified CCL7 as a target for BRG1. Depletion of CCL7 disrupted the crosstalk between macrophages and HSCs. On the contrary, recombinant CCL7 stimulated HSC-myofibroblast transition. Importantly, CCL7 blockade with a neutralizing antibody attenuated liver fibrosis in mice. Transcriptomic analysis indicated that CCL7 activated sterol response element binding protein 2 (SREBP2) to modulate intracellular cholesterol levels during HSC-myofibroblast transition. Consistently, cholesterol depletion with methyl-beta-cyclodextrin (MβCD) blocked HSC-myofibroblast transition and mitigated liver fibrosis. Finally, a positive correlation between CCL7 levels in peripheral blood monocytic cells (PBMCs) and myofibroblast markers in liver tissues was identified in patients with cirrhosis. In conclusion, our data uncover an uncanonical role for CCL7 in liver fibrosis by directly promoting HSC-myofibroblast transition.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Sotorasib has introduced new therapeutic opportunities for Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (KRAS)G12C-mutant tumors, but resistance emerging within months poses a major clinical challenge. Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway reactivation is a key driver of sotorasib resistance, yet its mechanisms remain incompletely elucidated. We observe that MAPK pathway reactivation following sotorasib treatment is largely independent of RAS activity and instead driven by accumulation of sotorasib-bound KRASG12C (soto-KRASG12C). Mechanistically, accumulated soto-KRASG12C promotes activation of the Rac family small GTPase 1 (RAC1)- p21-activated kinase 1 (PAK1) axis through interaction with DExD/H-box helicase 9 (DHX9), thereby reactivating the MAPK pathway. DHX9 shuttles between the nucleus and cytoplasm, and its interaction with soto-KRASG12C results in its cytoplasmic retention. Co-treatment with an Son of Sevenless 1 (SOS1) inhibitor also leads to sustained suppression of soto-KRASG12C levels. Furthermore, combining sotorasib with either a DHX9 inhibitor or an SOS1 inhibitor significantly enhances its anti-tumor efficacy in both KRASG12C-mutant and sotorasib-resistant models. These findings provide previously uncharacterized mechanistic insights to guide therapeutic strategies aimed at overcoming sotorasib resistance.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Subchorionic hemorrhage (SCH) is characterized by a fluid-filled hypoechoic area in early pregnancy. This study investigates how laminin subunit β1 (LAMB1) modulates type III collagen (COL3A1) and Rac family small GTPase 1 (RAC1) in SCH coagulation and immunity.We recruited ten early-pregnancy SCH patients and ten gestational age-matched women undergoing elective abortion as controls. Proteomic and transcriptomic analyses were performed on decidua and villous tissues to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and genes (DEGs). Key biomarkers were screened using bioinformatics and machine learning algorithms (LASSO, SVM-RFE). An in vivo SCH-like model was established via LPS induction in pregnant rats, and in vitro experiments were conducted using HTR-8/SVneo trophoblast cells.Proteomic analysis revealed enrichment in extracellular matrix and coagulation pathways, identifying LAMB1 as a central protein. Transcriptomic data confirmed upregulation of LAMB1 and COL3A1 and downregulation of RAC1 in SCH samples. Clinical blood analysis indicated coagulation abnormalities and Th1/Th2 imbalance in SCH patients. In vivo, LAMB1 knockdown alleviated inflammation, improved pregnancy outcomes, and restored Th2 cytokine expression. In vitro, LAMB1 silencing enhanced trophoblast proliferation, migration, and invasion while reducing pro-inflammatory cytokine levels. Mechanistically, LAMB1 modulated SCH progression via the COL3A1/RAC1 axis.LAMB1 promotes inflammation and coagulation dysfunction in SCH by regulating COL3A1 and RAC1 expression. Targeting LAMB1 may offer a novel strategy for early diagnosis and therapeutic intervention in SCH to improve pregnancy outcomes.© 2026. The Author(s).
While lineage plasticity is a well-established driver of therapy resistance in prostate cancer, the role of tumor-infiltrating immune cells in mediating phenotype switching remains poorly understood. Here, we employed single-cell multi-omics to systematically characterize immune infiltration dynamics, transcriptional reprogramming, and intercellular communication networks during prostate cancer progression. Our analysis revealed that granulin (GRN)-expressing macrophages orchestrate the transition from adenocarcinoma (Adeno) to a therapy-resistant multilineage state exhibiting vimentin (VIM)+ mesenchymal and stem-like features through GRN/ tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 1A (TNFRSF1A) interaction and the subsequent activation of the nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) pathway. Intriguingly, these plastic tumor subclones reciprocally enhanced GRN expression in macrophages via colony stimulating factor 1 (CSF1) and CSF1 receptor (CSF1R) receptor-ligand axis, establishing a feedforward signaling loop that sustains lineage plasticity. Functional validation demonstrated GRN's critical role in driving epithelial-mesenchymal transition in vitro and conferring resistance to enzalutamide (ENZ) in patient-derived organoids. Therapeutic intervention studies in transgenic Adeno of the mouse prostate (TRAMP) models showed that CSF1R inhibition disrupted this vicious cycle, reducing GRN  + macrophages and suppressing multilineage subclone emergence. Spatial mapping revealed direct physical interactions between VIM  + tumor cells and GRN  + macrophages, while single-cell proteomics in castration-resistant patients confirmed the clinical relevance of this axis. Furthermore, we identified three novel stromal populations [decorin (DCN)+ endothelial cells, C-C motif chemokine ligand 7 (CCL7)+ fibroblasts, and interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 1 (IFIT1)+ neutrophils associated with disease relapse. These findings illuminate the tumor-immune crosstalk underlying treatment resistance and unveil promising therapeutic targets for overcoming lineage plasticity-driven resistance in advanced prostate cancer.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press and Science Press on behalf of the Beijing Institute of Genomics, Chinese Academy of Sciences / China National Center for Bioinformation and Genetics Society of China.
This study adopted an integrated strategy combining serum transitional component screening, network pharmacology prediction, and animal experiment verification to systematically explore the core active components and mechanism of action of Yinxing Yangnao Formula(YYF) in the treatment of vascular dementia(VD), aiming to provide solid experimental evidence for the modernization of this classical TCM prescription. With the use of ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-Orbitrap high-resolution mass spectrometry(UPLC-Orbitrap-HRMS), a total of 97 chemical components were identified from the YYF extract by combining accurate mass-to-charge ratio, characteristic fragmentation ions of MS/MS, comparison with reference standards, and matching with literature databases. Furthermore, 27 serum transitional components were captured through the analysis of YYF-containing serum from rats, which were inferred as the key material basis for the in vivo pharmacodynamic effects of YYF. The potential targets of the serum transitional components were predicted using the SwissTargetPrediction database, and VD-related disease targets were screened from authoritative databases including GeneCard, OMIM, and GEO with the keyword dementia vascular. A total of 275 common targets were obtained with the Jvenn online tool. The &quot;drug-component-target-disease&quot; network was constructed using Cytoscape 3.9.1 software, and core active components such as isoscopoletin, jaceosidin, catalpol, senkyunolide F, and bilobalide were screened out. The protein-protein interaction(PPI) network was constructed via the STRING database, identifying key regulatory targets including the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase family, sarcoma, protein tyrosine phosphatase, non-receptor type 11, Janus kinase 2, and protein tyrosine kinase 2. Gene Ontology(GO) functional enrichment and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) pathway analysis revealed that the core targets were mainly enriched in biological processes such as oxidative stress, neurological function, and immune and inflammatory responses, involving phosphoinositide 3-kinase-protein kinase B(PI3K-Akt), mitogen-activated protein kinase(MAPK), and Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription 3(JAK-STAT3) signaling pathways. Molecular docking results showed that bilobalide had a good binding effect with core targets. Verification experiments on VD rat models demonstrated that YYF might exert the therapeutic effect by alleviating oxidative stress through modulating the serum levels of superoxide dismutase(SOD), glutathione peroxidase(GSH-Px), and malondialdehyde(MDA). This study preliminarily clarified the material basis, pharmacological effects, and underlying mechanism of YYF in the treatment of VD, providing a direction and basis for subsequent research on the complete regulatory chain of &quot;drug-target-pathway-phenotype&quot;.
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), including ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease affects approximately 7 million individuals worldwide. Its pathogenesis involves genetic susceptibility, alterations in the gut microbiota, and immune system imbalance, with both innate and adaptive components contributing through aberrant cytokine signaling. The Transforming Growth Factor-β (TGFβ) pathway plays a central role in this context, controlling the differentiation of regulatory T-cells (Tregs) and Th17 lymphocytes within the intestinal mucosa. Given the importance of these populations in maintaining intestinal homeostasis, we investigated the role of the TGFβ inhibitor BAMBI (BMP and Activin Membrane-Bound Inhibitor) in UC progression. In addition, due to the increased risk of colorectal cancer associated with chronic intestinal inflammation, we evaluated the effects of genetic ablation of Bambi (BAMBI-KO) in chronic inflammation-associated colon cancer progression. BAMBI expression is predominantly localized in the colonic epithelium, and either its absence or pharmacological inhibition confers protection against Dextran Sodium Sulfate-induced colitis. Mechanistically, this effect is TGFβ-dependent, independent of immune suppression and is associated with enhanced epithelial cell renewal and improved barrier function. Moreover, chronic UC induction in BAMBI-KO mice results in reduced colorectal tumor multiplicity, size and severity. Collectively, these findings identify BAMBI as a critical regulator of intestinal homeostasis and a potential therapeutic target in colorectal disease.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Following the publication of the above article, a concerned reader drew the Editor's attention to the fact that the Nissl staining images shown in Fig. 3C on p. 427 contained a series of internally duplicated groupings/repeated patternings of cells within the various data panels that could not easily be attributed to coincidence. A subsequent investigation of the data in this paper revealed that the Nissl staining images shown in Fig. 2C were similarly affected by the same phenomenon. After having conducted an internal investigation of the data in this paper, the Editor of International Journal of Molecular Medicine has decided that this article should be retracted from the publication on the grounds of an overall lack of confidence in the presented data. The authors were asked for an explanation to account for these concerns, but the Editorial Office did not receive a reply. The Editor sincerely apologizes to the readership for any incovenience caused, and we thank the reader for drawing this matter to our attention. [International Journal of Molecular Medicine 39: 423‑429, 2017; DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.2016.2838].
Macroautophagy/autophagy represents a promising therapeutic target in oncology, exhibiting context-dependent roles in tumor progression. Kinase inhibitors are a large group of anti-cancer drugs, and elucidating the regulatory effects of different kinase inhibitors on autophagy offers a valuable strategy to advance our understanding of autophagy regulation in cancer and develop innovative anti-cancer therapies. In this study, we developed a drug screening platform and performed high-content screening using a kinase inhibitor library. The screening identified PTK2/FAK (protein tyrosine kinase 2) inhibitors as potent autophagy inducers. Mechanistic investigations revealed that PTK2/FAK inhibition triggers rapid autophagic flux through a non-classical mechanism dependent on PTK2/FAK expression, which is associated with the spatial redistribution of ER exit sites (ERES). Further analysis demonstrated that PTK2/FAK inhibitor (FAKi)-induced ERES-associated autophagy is not contingent upon full PREB/SEC12 and SEC16 expression, but is sensitized to TMED9 expression level. Additionally, we identified AKAP13 as a novel FAKi-responsive protein that undergoes dephosphorylation upon FAKi treatment and contributes to TMED9-mediated ERES-associated autophagy. Given that ERES-associated autophagy is initiated through membrane contact between ERES and the ER-Golgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC), we further observed enhanced TMED9-ERGIC interactions following FAKi treatment. Furthermore, functional studies confirmed that FAKi-induced autophagy promotes pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) cell survival both in vitro and in vivo. Collectively, our work unveils a previously unrecognized mechanism of FAKi-mediated autophagy induction and provides new insights for developing targeted therapies against PDAC.Abbreviations: AKAP13: A-kinase anchoring protein 13; AMPK: AMP-activated protein kinase; BAF: bafilomycin A1; ECM: extracellular matrix; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ERES: endoplasmic reticulum exit sites; ERGIC: ER-Golgi intermediate compartment; GSK: GSK2256098; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; PDAC: pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma; PI3K: phosphoinositide 3-kinase; PI4KB: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase beta; PTK2/FAK: protein tyrosine kinase 2; TMED9: transmembrane p24 trafficking protein 9; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1.
Stroke remains a major cause of mortality and disability, highlighting the need for new therapeutic targets. This study aimed to systematically identify druggable genes causally associated with stroke risk using genetic and transcriptomic data. A total of 5883 druggable genes were compiled from the Drug-Gene Interaction Database and previous reviews. We integrated data from a large-scale stroke GWAS with blood and brain expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) for druggable genes and performed a two-sample Mendelian randomization analysis using eQTLs as genetic instruments for gene expression. Significant findings were validated using colocalization analysis. Expression of prioritized genes was further examined in external bulk (GSE140275) and single-cell (GSE174574) RNA-seq datasets. Finally, protein-protein interaction networks and the Drug Signature Database were employed for downstream functional and therapeutic prediction. The intersection of eQTL data identified 3453 genes in blood and 3150 genes in brain tissues. Mendelian randomization analysis identified ten gene-stroke associations (3 in blood, 7 in brain). Colocalization analysis supported a shared causal variant for 5 of these genes, indicated by high posterior probability of hypothesis 4 values, suggesting potential pathogenic roles. The protein-protein interaction network highlighted 5 core druggable genes (protein tyrosine kinase 2, cyclin-dependent kinase 6, ring finger protein 43, papilin proteoglycan-like sulfated glycoprotein, and coagulation factor II) interacting with 20 predicted genes. Myosin light chain kinase inhibitor 7 and staurosporine were the 2 most significant compounds interacting with these genes, followed by simvastatin and cortisol succinate. This study uncovered potential stroke mechanisms and therapeutic targets using integrated multi-omics data, providing a foundation for future clinical applications and drug development strategies. Five druggable genes were identified in stroke (protein tyrosine kinase 2, cyclin-dependent kinase 6, ring finger protein 43, papilin proteoglycan-like sulfated glycoprotein, and coagulation factor II). Myosin light chain kinase inhibitor 7, staurosporine, simvastatin, and cortisol succinate were identified as potential drug candidates for stroke. These results could add additional tools to manage stroke.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
The synergistic cardioprotective effects of monoester alkaloids and ginsenosides constitute the pharmacological basis of Shenfu decoction (SFD) for chronic heart failure. However, the underlying molecular interactions remain unclear.This study aimed to identify the key bioactive components of SFD, elucidate their molecular targets, and define the mechanistic pathways underlying their synergistic cardioprotective effects.We employed an ACE-dependent Ang I-stimulated cardiomyocyte hypertrophy model in vitro and a transverse aortic constriction (TAC) mouse model in vivo to evaluate pharmacological efficacy. Integrated transcriptomic-proteomic profiling identified downstream effectors, validated by genetic knockdown. The molecular targets were investigated using limited proteolysis-mass spectrometry (Lip-MS), molecular docking, surface plasmon resonance (SPR), cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA), and enzyme activity assays.Benzoylaconitine (BAC) and ginsenoside Rb1 (Rb1) were identified as the dominant cardioprotective constituents of SFD. Pharmacological assessments demonstrated that BAC and Rb1 synergistically attenuated Ang Ⅰ-induced cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and fibrosis, and mitigated pathological cardiac remodeling in TAC mice. Integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analyses revealed that their combined treatment reduced mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, suppressed mitochondrial fission, and restored mitochondrial homeostasis. Mechanistically, BAC promoted the transcription of Discs Large MAGUK Scaffold Protein 1 (DLG1), whereas Rb1 slowed its protein degradation, thereby synergistically upregulating DLG1 expression and improving mitochondrial function. Lip-MS further demonstrated that BAC specifically targeted angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) and inhibited its activity, whereas Rb1 targeted and activated ACE2, thereby rebalancing the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) between the AT1R and MAS axes. This dual-target modulation ultimately contributed to the upregulation of DLG1, preserved mitochondrial integrity, and ameliorated maladaptive ventricular remodeling.BAC and Rb1 exert synergistic cardioprotection by targeting ACE and ACE2, restoring RAAS homeostasis, enhancing DLG1 expression, and sustaining mitochondrial stability, thereby attenuating pathological cardiac remodeling. These findings highlight the potential of BAC and Rb1 as a dual-target synergistic therapy for heart failure.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Cardiac fibrosis is a defining pathological feature of diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM), and excessive activation of cardiac fibroblasts plays a critical role in regulating cardiomyocyte function through paracrine signaling. CCN1 (cellular communication network factor 1), an extracellular matrix protein involved in intercellular communication, has been suggested to influence cardiac remodeling, although its specific impact on cardiomyocytes in DCM has remained unclear. In this study, we found that CCN1 expression was markedly elevated in cardiac tissues from DCM mouse models and in insulin-resistant cell models, with fibroblasts serving as the primary source. Proteomic analysis and co-culture experiments demonstrated that CCN1 suppressed cardiomyocyte macroautophagy/autophagy. To determine its role in vivo, we generated fibroblast-specific ccn1 knockout mice and established a DCM model, demonstrating that ccn1 deletion ameliorated cardiac dysfunction and restored autophagic activity. We further identified ITGAV-ITGB1/integrin αvβ1 as the receptor mediating CCN1 signaling in cardiomyocytes. Molecular dynamics simulations and co-immunoprecipitation experiments confirmed that CCN1 engaged ITGAV-ITGB1/integrin αvβ1 through its cysteine-knot-containing (CT) domain. Mechanistically, this interaction activated the downstream PTK2/FAK-MTOR signaling pathway, leading to inhibition of cardiomyocyte autophagy. Together, these findings reveal a previously unrecognized fibroblast-cardiomyocyte signaling axis in which fibroblast-derived CCN1 drives DCM progression by suppressing autophagy through ITGAV-ITGB1/integrin αvβ1-dependent signaling. This work provides mechanistic insight into the pathogenesis of DCM and identifies CCN1 as a potential therapeutic target for mitigating disease onset and progression.Abbreviations: AAV9: adeno-associated virus serotype 9; ADGRE1/EMR1/F4/80: adhesion G protein-coupled receptor E1; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BSA: bovine serum albumin; C8: compound 8; CCN1: cellular communication network factor 1; CF: cardiac fibroblast; CSA: cross-sectional area; DCM: diabetic cardiomyopathy; EIF4EBP1: eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; HE: hematoxylin and eosin; HFD: high-fat diet; HG: high glucose; IR: insulin resistance; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MD: molecular dynamics; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; NRCM: neonatal rat cardiomyocyte; PDGFRA: platelet derived growth factor receptor alpha; PECAM1/CD31: platelet and endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1; PTK2/FAK: protein tyrosine kinase 2; PTPRC/CD45: protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type C; RPS6KB1: ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1; S100A4/FSP1: S100 calcium binding protein A4; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STZ: streptozotocin; TUNEL: terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling; WGA: wheat germ agglutinin.
Molecular targeted therapies play a crucial role in the management of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Lenvatinib is a standard targeted agent for advanced HCC, while quercetin has emerged as a promising natural compound with anti-HCC potential. This study investigates the combined effect of quercetin and lenvatinib on HCC.The human HCC cell line Huh7 and a nude mouse subcutaneous xenograft model were utilized. We evaluated cell proliferation, clonogenicity, invasion, migration, and apoptosis through Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), clonogenic, Transwell, and flow cytometry assays, respectively. Network pharmacology analysis was performed identify common targets. The protein expression levels of B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2), Bcl-2 associated X-protein (Bax), E-cadherin, N-cadherin, and protein tyrosine kinase 2 (PTK2) were assessed by Western blotting. In vivo experiments were conducted to validate the anti-tumor efficacy of the combination treatment.The combination of quercetin and lenvatinib significantly enhanced inhibition of Huh7 cell proliferation, colony formation, invasion, and migration (p < 0.01) and promoted apoptosis (p < 0.01) compared to individual treatments. Mechanistically, the combination treatment decreased the expression of Bcl-2 and N-cadherin while upregulating Bax and E-cadherin. PTK2 was identified as a key shared target, and the combination most effectively suppressed its protein expression. In vivo, the combination group demonstrated a higher tumor inhibition rate (p < 0.01) and a Combination Index (CDI) of 0.753.Quercetin significantly enhances the anti-tumor efficacy of lenvatinib, likely through synergistic inhibition of PTK2 expression.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
BACKGROUND: Genome-wide association studies have shown that polymorphisms in PTK2B (Protein Tyrosine Kinase 2 Beta), encoding the calcium-sensitive tyrosine kinase PYK2 (Proline-rich tyrosine kinase 2), are associated with an increased risk of Alzheimer’s disease (AD). However, it remains unclear which genetic variants of PTK2B are functionally important. A recent transcriptome-wide association study has identified alternative splicing of exon 31 in PTK2B as being associated with AD, and proposed rs2251430 as the relevant splicing quantitative trait locus (sQTL). Here, we aimed to elucidate the regulatory mechanisms and functional significance of exon 31 splicing. METHODS: Alternative splicing of exon 31 was evaluated using publicly available RNA-seq data. To investigate the regulation of exon 31 splicing, we performed RT-PCR, RNA pull-down assays, Liquid Chromatography–Tandem Mass Spectrometry, and RNA immunoprecipitation. Western blotting, immunofluorescence, and co-immunoprecipitation analyses were conducted to examine the effects of exon 31 and its polymorphisms on PYK2 protein expression and function. The impact of exon 31 on cellular phenotypes was further assessed using antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) treatment in HeLa and HMC3 cells. RESULTS: We detected exon 31 skipping in certain human cell types, but not in mice, and observed its increase in microglia during AD progression. We then identified rs751019 and rs751018, both located near rs2251430, as sQTLs that affect exon 31 splicing, with rs751019 having a greater impact. Among RNA-binding proteins that interact with the surrounding sequence of rs751019, PCBP1 and PCBP2 were found to redundantly regulate exon 31 inclusion. PYK2 lacking exon 31 exhibited reduced protein expression and kinase activity, which in turn resulted in diminished phosphorylation of its substrate, GSK3β, with little change in calmodulin binding and intracellular localization. Moreover, ASO-induced exon 31 skipping decreased cell migration in a wound healing assay. It also increased multinucleation in human microglia-like HMC3 cells, a process recently identified in protective microglia. CONCLUSIONS: Our study validates rs751019 and rs751018 as functional sQTLs that influence PTK2B exon 31 splicing. It also identifies species-specific alternative splicing of exon 31 as a modulator of PYK2 expression and kinase activity, thereby linking sQTL-associated genetic variants to molecular and cellular changes that may underlie AD pathogenesis.
As one of the five major indigenous yellow cattle breeds in China, Qinchuan cattle are characterized by stable genetic performance and desirable meat quality. However, compared with imported commercial breeds, Qinchuan cattle have a relatively slow growth rate. Therefore, improving the growth rate of Qinchuan cattle has become a top priority in Qinchuan cattle breeding. The CDC10 (Septin 7) gene, an important member of the Septin family, participates in various cellular physiological processes including intracellular substance transport, cell division, cell cycle regulation, and apoptosis. Studies have repeatedly mapped the CDC10 gene to quantitative trait loci influencing growth-related traits, such as body weight and carcass weight in many beef cattle breeds. Previous study has also demonstrated the high expression of CDC10 in JB cattle with high performance for carcass weight, however, the association between CDC10 and growth-related traits in Qinchuan cattle remain unclear. Therefore, in this study, we selected five individuals each from Chinese Simmental, Mongolian cattle, Luxi cattle, and Qinchuan cattle for direct sequencing, aiming to identify mutations within the CDC10 gene of native Chinese yellow cattle. Subsequently, we performed genotyping of 367 Qinchuan cattle using the MassARRAY technology, followed by genetic diversity analysis of the identified mutations and association analysis between these sites and growth-related traits of Qinchuan cattle. This study demonstrated high expression of the CDC10 gene in Qinchuan cattle with high performance for carcass weight. Furthermore, we identified the g.61303052G>C and c.225A>G SNPs in the promoter and exon regions, respectively, as being significantly associated with multiple growth-related traits in Qinchuan cattle. The c.225A>G SNP was also found to alter the secondary structure of the CDC10 protein. These findings provide reliable molecular markers for enhancing the growth rate of Qinchuan cattle and establish a solid theoretical foundation for the development of the beef cattle industry.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41672972
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) encompasses distinct inflammatory subtypes such as polyarticular (pJIA), oligoarticular (oJIA), systemic onset (sJIA) and enthesitis-related arthritis (ERA). The molecular mechanisms underlying these subtypes remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the differential protein expression in synovial fluid (SF) across these subtypes of JIA using high-throughput proteomics to identify potential diagnostic biomarkers. SF samples were collected from 48 children (45 JIA and 3 non-inflammatory controls). Samples underwent protein extraction, iTRAQ labelling and LC-MS/MS analysis. A total of 282 proteins were identified. Differentially expressed proteins were analysed using fold change (FC) relative to control samples within each iTRAQ set. Principal component analysis (PCA), gene ontology (GO) and KEGG pathway enrichment analyses were performed to assess the biological significance of the identified proteins. Proteins showing > 5FC were prioritised for clustering and biomarker identification. Distinct proteomic signatures were observed across the studied JIA subtypes. PCA revealed the heterogeneity of protein expression in different subtypes of JIA. S-100, Septin-7, MMP-16 proteins were commonly upregulated in the studied subtypes of JIA except oJIA. Haptoglobin was upregulated in all except sJIA. The specific proteins expressed in various subtypes include pyruvate dehydrogenase phosphate in pJIA, haptoglobin-related and fibrinogen proteins in ERA, apolipoprotein and Nck-associated protein in sJIA and leucine-rich alpha-2-glycoprotein in oJIA. GO analysis revealed enrichment in immune-related biological processes, including complement activation, humoral immune response and antigen binding. The differential SF proteomic signatures observed in the studied JIA subtypes indicate different pathogenic mechanisms in JIA.© 2025 The Scandinavian Foundation for Immunology.
Premature ovarian insufficiency (POI) is a female reproductive disorder characterized by impaired ovarian function. Protein tyrosine kinase 2 beta (PTK2B), a non-receptor tyrosine kinase, has been implicated in folliculogenesis, but its role in POI remains unknown. In this study, a rat POI model was established by intraperitoneal injection of cyclophosphamide (Cy) for 14 days. Electroacupuncture (EA) has been elicited to effectively improve ovarian function in POI. Here, mRNA sequencing (mRNA-seq) analysis found that PTK2B expression in ovarian tissues was upregulated by Cy treatment but downregulated by EA. To investigate PTK2B's role, primary rat ovarian granulosa cells (GCs) were co-treated with Cy (250 μM) and a PTK2B inhibitor PF-431396 (10 μM) for 48 h. PF-431396 inhibited Cy-induced inflammatory response and apoptosis in GCs. Further, PTK2B binds to AKT1 in GCs. PF-431396 facilitated AKT1 phosphorylation, and the inhibitory effects of PF-431396 on GC inflammatory response and apoptosis were reversed by an AKT1 inhibitor LY294002. In vivo, rats were given PF-431396 (10 mg/kg/d) by gavage for 7 days following Cy induction for 14 days. Treatment with PF-431396 increased ovarian weight, serum E2, and AMH levels, while decreased FSH and LH levels. Additionally, it could improve Cy-induced ovarian tissue injury, inhibit inflammation and apoptosis, and elevate p-AKT1 level in ovarian tissues. Together, our results unveil that PF-431396, a PTK2B inhibitor, ameliorates ovarian dysfunction in POI through promoting AKT1 phosphorylation, suggesting that PTK2B may be a therapeutic target for POI.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The white adipose tissue (WAT) expansion plays a significant role in the development of obesity. Cytoskeletal remodeling directly impacts adipogenic program, however, the precise mechanism remains poorly understood. Here, we identified a crucial role of Septin-7 (SEPT7), a cytoskeleton component, in the regulation of diet-induced processes of adipogenesis, lipogenesis, and lipolysis in WAT.A high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obesity model was constructed using mice with inducible adipocyte-specific SEPT7 deficiency. The impact of SEPT7 on adipocyte morphology, cell number and metabolism capacity were evaluated with immunofluorescence, isoproterenol induced lipolysis assay, glucose tolerance test and insulin tolerance test. Adipocyte mTmG reporter line was established to trace in vivo adipogenesis. The preadipocyte 3T3-L1 cell was induced for exploring role of SEPT7 in adipocyte differentiation. qRT-PCR and Western-blot were used to investigate the expression of PPARγ, C/EBPα, and HSL in 3T3-L1 cell with siRNA-mediated SEPT7 knockdown.SEPT7 expression was greatly induced in obesogenic human and murine adipocytes. Mice lacking SEPT7 in mature white adipocytes demonstrated defective differentiation of preadipocyte into mature adipocytes when fed HFD resulting in larger adipocytes, increased WAT inflammation and reduced lipolysis, which leading to increased WAT mass, liver fat accumulation and impaired glucose tolerance. Mechanistically, we identified SEPT7 restrains store-operated Ca2+ entry (SOCE) and regulates adipocyte adipogenesis and lipolysis by targeting PPARγ, C/EBPα and HSL.We demonstrated that SEPT7 negatively regulates adipogenesis while promotes lipolysis and its repression drives WAT expansion and impaired metabolic health.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 39815061
Fibroblasts are adherent cells that maintain tissue homeostasis by sensing and responding to the extracellular matrix (ECM). Focal adhesions (FAs) link these ECM changes to actomyosin dynamics through changes in its composition, influencing cellular response. Septin-7 (Sept-7) has previously been found in FA proteomics studies and shown to influence ECM sensing. Using total internal reflection microscopy, we found that ECM-mediated integrin activation regulates spatially distinct Sept-7 structures in FAs. In perinuclear regions, ECM binding stabilized Sept-7 bundles at the back of FAs, while in the core of peripheral FAs high integrin activation promoted elongation of Sept-7 structures. Ventral Sept-7 structures were crucial for ECM sensing, impacting region-specific FA elongation, stabilization, and contributing to fibroblast mechanosensitivity. Taken together, our results suggest that ECM and integrin-dependent regulation of ventral Sept-7 structures plays a pivotal role in fibroblast ECM sensing and mechanotransduction through its recruitment and assembly into FA subpopulations.© 2024 The Author(s).
Chimeric antigen receptor T cell therapies have achieved great success in eradicating some liquid tumors, whereas the preclinical results in treating solid tumors have proven less decisive. One of the principal challenges in solid tumor treatment is the physical barrier composed of a dense extracellular matrix, which prevents immune cells from penetrating the tissue to attack intratumoral cancer cells. Here, we improve immune cell infiltration into solid tumors by manipulating septin-7 functions in cells. Using protein allosteric design, we reprogram the three-dimensional structure of septin-7 and insert a blue light-responsive light-oxygen-voltage-sensing domain 2 (LOV2), creating a light-controllable septin-7-LOV2 hybrid protein. Blue light inhibits septin-7 function in live cells, inducing extended cell protrusions and cell polarization, enhancing cell transmigration efficiency through confining spaces. We genetically edited human natural killer cell line (NK92) and mouse primary CD8+ T-cells expressing the engineered protein, and we demonstrated improved penetration and cytotoxicity against various tumor spheroid models. Our proposed strategy to enhance immune cell infiltration is compatible with other methodologies and therefore, could be used in combination to further improve cell-based immunotherapies against solid tumors.
The ubiquitin ligase Nedd4-2/NEDD4L, comprised of C2-WW(x4)-HECT domains, is known to regulate several ion transporters and channels. We recently showed that elevated intracellular [Na+] and osmolarity enhances Nedd4-2 enzymatic activity. To globally identify its interactome and substrates in cells under hyperosmotic stress, we performed a BioID screen using miniTurbo with Nedd4-2 as a bait under hyperosmotic (vs. isosmotic) conditions. One of the top hits identified that preferentially binds Nedd4-2 under hyperosmolarity was Dynamin Binding Protein (DNMBP)/Tuba, a known GEF for Cdc42. We then showed that DNMBP is a substrate for Nedd4-2, and that active Nedd4-2 targets DNMBP to P-body condensates under hyperosmotic stress. Moreover, DNMBP itself promotes P-body formation under hyperosmolarity. Both Nedd4-2 and DNMBP are required for the activation of Cdc42 following hyperosmotic treatment, and accordingly, knockout of DNMBP results in suppression of Cdc42 and its downstream effector p38-MAPK. We thus propose that Nedd4-2-mediated targeting of DNMBP to P-bodies under hyperosmotic stress facilitates the activation of Cdc42 by this GEF.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Piwi-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs that play a crucial role in gene regulation and immune defense. This study investigates their function in Penaeus vannamei shrimp during White Spot Syndrome Virus (WSSV) infection. Analysis of small RNA libraries from WSSV-infected shrimp hemocytes identified 82,788 piRNA homologs, with 138 showing altered expression during infection. Putative piRNAs were mapped to both the P. vannamei nuclear and mitochondrial genomes, highlighting their diverse origins. Interestingly, some piRNA sequences from uninfected shrimp mapped to both the shrimp and WSSV genomes, suggesting potential subversion or integration of viral fragments into the host genome. We focused on piR-pva-926938, a downregulated piRNA targeting the WSSV186 gene. Introducing piR-pva-926938 into WSSV-infected shrimp suppressed WSSV186 expression, but paradoxically increased viral load by downregulating host immune genes like calcineurin B and dynamin-binding protein. This study is the first to report WSSV-responsive piRNAs in shrimp and reveals the complex interplay between piRNAs, viral genes, and host immunity during WSSV infection.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
To detect the expression of Spectrin Repeat Containing Nuclear Envelope Family Member 3 (SYNE3) and Cluster of Differentiation 34 (CD34) in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). It also aimed to explore the relationship between SYNE3 and NSCLC angiogenesis and clinicopathologic features to identify new biomarkers for NSCLC.Forty-five NSCLC stage IA-IVB tissue specimens from patients diagnosed at Bazhong Central Hospital were collected from January to September 2022, along with 45 para-cancerous normal lung tissues as controls. None of the NSCLC patients had received anti-tumor therapies, including radiotherapy, chemotherapy, targeted therapy, immunotherapy, or traditional Chinese medicine. All specimens were stained for SYNE3 and CD34 using the Streptavidin-Peroxidase (SP) method. The expression levels of SYNE3 and CD34 in NSCLC tissues and para-cancerous tissues were detected, and a correlation analysis between SYNE3 and clinicopathological features was performed. The number of CD34-labeled microvessels was counted using the Microvessel density (MVD) method. The relationship between SYNE3 and NSCLC angiogenesis was examined through the correlation between CD34-MVD and NSCLC clinicopathologic features.The expression of SYNE3 in NSCLC was significantly lower than that in para-cancerous normal lung tissues, while the expression of CD34 in NSCLC was significantly higher than in para-cancerous normal lung tissues (P=0.037). SYNE3 expression in NSCLC was negatively correlated with tumor diameter and was lower in male patients with a smoking history compared to female patients without a smoking history. CD34 expression was positively correlated with Tumor, Node, Metastasis staging and lymph node metastasis. There was a significant correlation between the expression of SYNE3 and CD34 in NSCLC (r=0.450, P=0.000).SYNE3 was lowly expressed and negatively correlated with tumor size in NSCLC, whereas CD34 was highly expressed and positively correlated with TNM stage and lymph node metastasis. The significant correlation between the expressions of SYNE3 and CD34 suggests that SYNE3 may play a key role in NSCLC angiogenesis and progression.AJTR Copyright © 2024.
Microtubule-affinity regulating kinase 2 (MARK2) is a conserved serine/threonine kinase that plays a critical role in microtubule dynamics and neuronal polarity. Rare MARK2 variants have recently been reported in individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and neurodevelopmental disorder (NDD), and here we expand the number of affected individuals, including a familial case. Despite these clinical findings, the functional significance and underlying mechanisms of patient-derived variants remain poorly understood. To address this gap, we established a humanized Drosophila model and systematically evaluated eight NDD-linked MARK2 variants using tissue-specific expression assays. Functional assessments in Drosophila indicate that MARK2 variants span a range of functional consequences, primarily exhibiting hypomorphic or loss-of-function effects. Truncating variants consistently showed reduced protein levels and rescued lethality, a loss-of-function mechanism. Most missense variants (e.g., p.Val231Met, p.Gly135Arg, p.Ala80Val, and p.His167Pro) maintained protein expression and induced mild to moderate phenotypes, consistent with partial loss of function. The p.Lys224Glu variant behaved similarly to the wild type in both viability and wing patterning assays and exhibited elevated protein levels but did not display overt pathogenicity in flies. Based on these findings, we propose a functional classification of MARK2 variants into three categories: not pathogenic (p.Lys224Glu), hypomorphic (missense variants), and loss of function (truncating variants). These results highlight the value of Drosophila as a scalable in vivo platform for variant interpretation and provide insight into how reduced MARK2 activity may contribute to neurodevelopmental disorders.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Genetics has been a powerful approach in studying the circadian clock, uncovering the first gene Period (Per) as a key regulator. Human mutation in serine 662 (S662) was found in 2001 to cause familial advanced sleep phase (FASP) syndrome with phase advancement and period shortening. We found S662 phosphorylation by casein kinase 1 (CK1) δ and ε, testis-specific serine kinase (TSSK) 1 and 2, and salt inducible kinase (SIK) 1-3, but no phase advancement phenotype after genetic deletion of any of these seven genes. Our biochemical purification revealed microtubule affinity regulating kinase 2 (MARK2) in phosphorylating S662, binding to and stabilizing PER2. Circadian period was shortened in Mark2-deficient cells in an S662-dependent manner. Neuronal specific Mark2 knockout mice showed phase advancement and period shortening. We have discovered MARK2 as a physiologically significant regulator of the clock, and shown the effectiveness of biochemical purification in mechanistic studies of behaviors.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The innate immune system detects viral infections and mounts robust type I interferon (IFN-I) responses to establish antiviral defenses. However, the regulatory mechanisms that control the amplitude and duration of IFN-I signaling remain incompletely understood. Here, we identify microtubule affinity-regulating kinase 2 (MARK2)-a serine/threonine kinase of the AMPK family traditionally known for its roles in cell polarity and microtubule dynamics-as a regulator of antiviral immunity. MARK2 interacts with guanine nucleotide exchange factor H1 (GEF-H1) and phosphorylates it at Ser645 in a microtubule-dependent manner. Phosphorylated GEF-H1 then enhances TBK1 activation, thereby promoting strong induction of IFN-I and IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs). Furthermore, MARK2 drives transcriptional upregulation of GEF-H1 itself as an ISG, establishing a positive feedback loop that sustains antiviral signaling. Together, these findings identify MARK2 as an antiviral signaling kinase that amplifies innate immune responses through GEF-H1 phosphorylation, offering mechanistic insights into the regulation of innate antiviral immunity.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Despite great success in certain cancers, immunotherapy made little progress in treating immune cold tumors, largely attributed to an immune-suppressive tumor microenvironment with elusive mechanisms. Here, we report in prostate cancer cells a positive feedback loop driven by phosphoserine aminotransferase 1 (PSAT1) that could be targeted to render effective cytotherapy by natural killer (NK) cells. In the loop, PSAT1 increases Y-box binding protein 1 (YBX1) phosphorylation by microtubule affinity-regulating kinase 2, promoting its nuclear translocation to upregulate PSAT1 transcription. Meanwhile, YBX1 also promotes human leukocyte antigens E (HLA-E) transcription to inactivate NK cells. Consequently, the PSAT1 loop serves as a buff sustaining YBX1/HLA-E expression, suppressing NK killing of prostate cancer cells. Targeting loop molecules, such as PAST1, effectively potentiates tumor suppression by NK cells both in-vitro and in-vivo. Thus, our study uncovered a heretofore unrecognized nonautonomous mechanism for PSAT1, as well as a molecular buff for YBX1, to drive tumor growth by evading NK immunity, providing a promising target for NK cytotherapy of immune cold tumors.
Protein homeostasis is exquisitely regulated through processes involving protein synthesis essential for cellular health and disease prevention. Repeat-associated non-AUG (RAN) translation at expanded GGGGCC repeats in the C9orf72 gene produces dipeptide repeat (DPR) proteins that are implicated in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal dementia (C9-ALS/FTD). However, the mechanisms promoting this noncanonical translation remain incompletely understood. Here, we identify microtubule affinity-regulating kinase 2 (MARK2) as a key eIF2α kinase that enhances RAN translation under proteotoxic stress. We show that MARK2-eIF2α signaling, activated by misfolded proteins including DPRs and TDP-43, is upregulated in C9-ALS patient tissues. Loss of MARK2 significantly suppresses RAN translation in reporter cells, patient-derived neurons, and a mouse model and confers neuroprotection under proteotoxic conditions. These findings position MARK2 as a critical stress-sensing cytosolic regulator that promotes repeat-associated noncanonical translation and associated toxicity.
Scarring is an insurmountable obstacle for axonal regeneration in recovery from spinal cord injury (SCI). It impedes the repair effects of therapeutic targets in cortical neurons, such as PTEN-/- and hyper-IL-6, which cannot break through dense scar barriers to reconstruct neural circuits. However, methods for eliminating this process remain elusive. Here, we conducted a multiomics analysis of SCI and identified FBXL12 as an effective target for inhibiting scarring, further promoting spontaneous crossing of axons at the epicenter. We identified N6-Methyladenosine (m6A) modification as the predominant mRNA modification in SCI, with Fbxl12 being a major modification target. Furthermore, m6A modification specifically promoted FBXL12 synthesis in activated microglia. The overexpression of FBXL12 in microglia contributed to its homogeneous distribution and maintained a "scar-less healing" phenotype. Remarkably, FBXL12 therapy effectively reduced extracellular matrix deposition and decreased the scar area by ~70%. Importantly, axons grew through the epicenter and reached a length of more than 2.4 mm 56 days post-SCI, significantly improving motor function and reconstructing the neural circuit. Mechanistically, FBXL12 promoted cytoskeletal reorganization and migration in microglia by catalyzing the K63-linked ubiquitylation of Myosin heavy chain 14 (MYH14). Together, our results identify m6A-FBXL12-MYH14 axis as a novel cytoskeletal reorganization pathway in activated microglia and suggest FBXL12 as an effective target for a novel microglia-based approach to facilitate scarless functional recovery in SCI.© 2025. The Author(s).
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a highly lethal cancer marked by poor prognosis and frequent gain-of-function mutations in the TP53 tumor suppressor gene. Given the crucial role of mutant p53 in the context of metabolic reprogramming and aggressive tumor behavior, we explored its role on mitochondria, which may present a valuable therapeutic target. In this study, we characterized the unique mitochondrial proteome observed in PDAC cells harboring the gain-of-function TP53R273H mutation and discovered a strong mutant p53-dependent upregulation of myosin heavy chain 14 (MYH14), a nonmuscle myosin, implicated in mitochondrial dynamics. We deeply investigated the role of mutant p53 in the regulation of mitochondrial architecture and functionality in PDAC cells. Our morphological and morphometric analyses with transmission electron microscopy and three-dimensional confocal imaging revealed that mutant p53 induced marked mitochondrial fragmentation, whereas wild-type p53 stimulated mitochondrial elongation. Interestingly, the fragmented mitochondrial morphology is associated with higher mitochondrial respiration levels and more efficient mitochondrial cristae. These findings support the role of oncogenic mutant p53 isoforms in inducing mitochondrial fragmentation through a mechanism involving MYH14, resulting in an increased oxidative phosphorylation level that may support PDAC cell growth and aggressiveness.© 2025 Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Inhibitory synapse formation is poorly understood compared with excitatory synaptogenesis, in part because the molecular events underlying assembly occur asynchronously and on timescales that have been difficult to resolve. Here, we exploit the ability of Semaphorin 4D (Sema4D) to rapidly and selectively induce GABAergic synapse formation in cultured hippocampal neurons, synchronizing these events to enable direct observation of pre- and postsynaptic protein dynamics by two-channel live imaging. We find that Sema4D promotes a population-wide increase in the mobility of GAD65-containing presynaptic boutons within 20 min of treatment while postsynaptic gephyrin scaffolds are mobilized only locally in a proximity-dependent manner, consistent with a presynapse-first model of inhibitory synapse assembly. Sema4D also drives recruitment of GABAARγ2 subunits to receptor-poor postsynaptic gephyrin scaffolds within 10 min of treatment, prior to detectable changes in GAD65-gephyrin colocalization, suggesting that postsynaptic scaffolds are primed for receptor capture before alignment with a presynaptic partner. Finally, we observed new colocalization events between established gephyrin and GABAAR protein assemblies, suggesting that clustering of either the gephyrin scaffold or GABAARs alone is sufficient to nucleate assembly of the postsynaptic specialization. Together, these results reveal a temporally ordered, spatially constrained mechanism by which Sema4D coordinates pre- and postsynaptic protein dynamics to assemble inhibitory synapses on the timescale of minutes.Copyright © 2026 Pranske and Paradis.
Semaphorin 4D (Sema4D)/(CD100) expression is upregulated in different human cancers, and it is associated with poor prognosis; however, its prognostic value in B-acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) remains unclear. We aimed to study the prognostic value of Sema4D expression to predict response to induction therapy in pediatric patients with B-ALL. Sixty newly diagnosed pediatric patients with B-ALL were enrolled, and their peripheral mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were isolated for assessment of Sema4D expression by multiparametric flow cytometry before initiating therapy. Then, we followed up with the patients for their response to induction therapy. Sema4D expression is significantly higher in non-responders to induction therapy than in responders. Using the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve, Sema4D expression > 18% significantly identifies patients at risk for induction failure. Logistic regression analyses confirmed that Sema4D expression is significantly associated with poor response to induction therapy. PBMCs' Sema4D expression can be considered a potential marker for predicting the response to induction therapy in pediatric patients with B-ALL. So, it may serve to optimize treatment decisions for those patients.• Semaphorin 4D (Sema4D)/(CD100) expression is upregulated in different human cancers, and it is associated with poor prognosis. • However, its prognostic value in B-acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) in pediatrics remains unclear.• We aimed to study the prognostic value of Sema4D expression to predict response to induction therapy in pediatric patients with B-ALL. • Sema4D expression can be considered a potential marker for predicting the response to induction therapy in pediatric patients with B-ALL. So, it may serve to optimize treatment decisions for those patients.© 2026. The Author(s).
Single-cell fixed RNA profiling (FLEX) is a novel technique that captures RNA expression in frozen tissues at a single-cell resolution. We applied FLEX to mouse model of liver fibrosis progression and regression to identify novel antifibrotic targets.Mice were administered intraperitoneal thioacetamide for 10 weeks to induce fibrosis, regression was assessed 2 weeks after cessation. The livers were fixed, dissociated, and analysed using FLEX. Molecular validation included immunoblotting, immunohistochemistry, gene silencing/overexpression, cytokine/phosphokinase arrays, and human liver samples.Approximately 40,000 liver cells were profiled, integrated, and annotated into 10 major cell types using lineage-specific markers. Pericentral signature restoration in hepatocytes, scar-resolving genes (Mmp14 and Ctsl), fenestrae restoration in liver sinusoidal endothelial cells, anti-inflammatory Kupffer cells, reduced fibrogenic cholangiocytes, and recovery-associated immune cell subsets were observed. During fibrosis, monocyte-derived macrophages secrete semaphorin-4D (SEMA4D), which binds to Plexin B2 on hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). SEMA4D+ cells were upregulated in mouse fibrotic livers (n = 6, p <0.05). Recombinant SEMA4D induces type I collagen in HSCs, whereas humanised monoclonal IgG4 SEMA4D blockade (VX15/2503) attenuates fibrosis in vivo (n = 5, p <0.05). LIM and cysteine-rich domains 1 (LMCD1) was enriched in fibrotic HSCs and suppressed during regression. LMCD1 knockdown reduced the expression of fibrotic protein, while LMCD1 overexpression promoted the expression of fibrotic protein via AKT/mTOR signalling. LMCD1 and SEMA4D are localised in the fibrotic septa and are correlated with the fibrotic stage of MASLD (n = 34, p <0.05) and HCV (n = 76, p <0.05) in humans.This FLEX-based single-cell atlas revealed critical transcriptional programs and cell-cell interactions, identifying SEMA4D and LMCD1 as promising therapeutic targets for liver fibrosis.In this study, we applied a novel technique, single-cell fixed RNA profiling, to profile 38,136 cells obtained from control, thioacetamide-induced liver fibrosis, and regression-phase mouse livers, generating a high-resolution atlas of liver fibrosis progression and regression. We identified the transcriptomic patterns of regressed cell subpopulations and uncovered two key therapeutic targets: the macrophage-derived factor semaphorin-4D (SEMA4D) and the hepatic stellate cell-specific transcription factor LIM and cysteine-rich domains 1 (LMCD1). Treatment with a humanised monoclonal IgG4 antibody against SEMA4D significantly alleviated liver fibrosis in the thioacetamide-induced mouse model. SEMA4D and LMCD1 expression correlated with the metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease-related fibrosis stage, and the attenuation of SEMA4D and LMCD1 after HCV-sustained virologic response reduced the risk of progression to hepatocellular carcinoma.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Immune suppression within the tumor microenvironment (TME) remains a significant barrier to effective cancer immunotherapy, including dendritic cell (DC)-based approaches. We address this by targeting Semaphorin 4D (SEMA4D), a pro-tumorigenic mediator expressed by leading-edge tumor cells and host immune cells, particularly in HER2-positive (HER2pos) breast cancer (BC). Antibody blockade of SEMA4D enhances the efficacy of adoptively transferred tumor-specific conventional type 1 DCs (cDC1s) across multiple HER2pos BC models. Tumor-cell-specific ablation of SEMA4D activity amplifies cDC1-driven anti-tumor immunity, highlighting its role in immune evasion. SEMA4D blockade synergizes with cDC1s to increase CD4+ Th1 and other effector cell infiltration into the TME, along with reciprocal elimination of myeloid-derived suppressor cells, fostering robust systemic immune responses that eradicated both local and distant tumors. Given its favorable safety profile, this strategy represents a promising immunotherapy for malignancies, including HER2pos BC that express high levels of SEMA4D in both tumor and stromal compartments.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Myasthenia gravis (MG) is an autoimmune disease involving several immune mechanisms. Recently, semaphorins have emerged as potential diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers in autoimmune neurological and non-neurological diseases. This study investigated the role of immune semaphorins, namely semaphorins 3A, 3F, 4A, 4D, and 7A, in the diagnosis and prognosis of MG and their potential as biomarkers.Serum levels of semaphorin 3A, 3F, 4A, 4D, and 7A were compared between 41 patients with MG and 39 healthy controls. Patients were grouped according to the Myasthenia Gravis Activities of Daily Living scale, and differences in semaphorin levels between groups were analyzed.Semaphorin 4A levels were significantly lower, whereas semaphorin 7A levels were higher in patients with MG than in controls. However, no significant correlation was found between the disease stage and semaphorin levels.Our findings suggest that the levels of semaphorin 4A and 7A may not only support the diagnosis of MG and aid in differential diagnosis but also shed light on the development of future therapeutic protocols targeting semaphorin proteins and receptors in other autoimmune and inflammatory diseases.© 2026 The Author(s). Brain and Behavior published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Salivary biomarkers have the potential to be used as diagnostic tools for periodontal disease. This study aimed to evaluate the role of semaphorin 4D (SEMA4D) in saliva among healthy and periodontitis subjects and its response to nonsurgical periodontal treatment.An interventional clinicobiochemical study was conducted on the study population. SEMA4D levels were evaluated and compared using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Individuals with periodontitis underwent nonsurgical treatment followed by ELISA.Intergroup comparison was performed using one-way analysis of variance to assess significant differences between the groups, followed by post hoc Tukey's test. Intragroup comparison was performed using a paired t-test to assess significant differences. Pearson's correlation coefficient helped to determine the strength of association.Increased levels of SEMA4D were seen in subjects with Stage 1 Grade A periodontitis. Correlation of SEMA4D to the gingival index, clinical attachment loss, and probing pocket depth was not statistically significant.SEMA4D can be a potential biomarker since there is a positive relation between SEMA4D and Stage 1 Grade A periodontitis.Copyright: © 2025 Indian Society of Periodontology.
To determine whether lncRNA HNF1A-AS1 affects epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) growth and macrophage polarization through miR-214/SEMA4D, the endogenous HNF1A-AS1 and miR-214 levels in human EOC cell lines are compared with those in normal ovarian epithelial IOSE80 cells. HNF1A-AS1 is overexpressed or silenced to investigate whether HNF1A-AS1 regulates miR-214/SEMA4D in SKOV3 cells and xenograft tumors, as well as the phenotypic switching of THP-1 cells. Compared with IOSE80 cells, EOC cells present significantly higher HNF1A-AS1 level and lower miR-214 level. Fluorescence in situ hybridization reveals predominant cytoplasmic localization of HNF1A-AS1, supporting its role as a competing endogenous RNA. HNF1A-AS1 and miR-214 antagonize each other in SKOV3 cells. In vitro, HNF1A-AS1 inhibits SKOV3 apoptosis and promotes migration and invasion. HNF1A-AS1 overexpression enhances miR-214 downstream of SEMA4D/PLEXIN-B1/TIAM1/RAC signaling, but miR-214 mimics significantly reverses this effect. Compared with control tumors, xenograft tumors derived from HNF1A-AS1-overexpressing SKOV3 cells present increased tumor growth, attenuated miR-214 expression, and activated SEMA4D/PLEXIN-B1/TIAM/RAC signaling. Knockdown of HNF1A-AS1 has the opposite effects. Additionally, HNF1A-AS1 promotes M2 phenotypic switching in THP-1 cells, which could be reversed by miR-214 overexpression or SEMA4D silencing. Our study suggests that by antagonizing miR-214, HNF1A-AS1 activates the SEMA4D/PLEXIN-B1/TIAM/RAC pathway, facilitating EOC growth and potentially promoting M2 macrophage polarization in the tumor microenvironment. HNF1A-AS1 represents a compelling therapeutic target for treating EOC.
Background and Objectives: Semaphorins are immunoregulatory proteins involved in inflammation and neurovascular modulation. Their roles in ischemic stroke pathogenesis and prognosis have recently gained attention. This study aimed to evaluate serum levels of semaphorin 3A, 3F, 4A, 4D, and 7A in patients with acute ischemic stroke and investigate their relationship with disease severity and prognosis. Materials and Methods: A total of 45 patients with acute ischemic stroke and 39 control individuals were enrolled. Serum semaphorin levels were measured using ELISA. Clinical data, including TOAST classification, NIHSS scores, and laboratory parameters, were recorded. Correlations between semaphorin levels and clinical or biochemical variables were analyzed statistically. Results: Semaphorin 4A levels were significantly lower and semaphorin 7A levels significantly higher in the patient group compared to controls (p < 0.001). Semaphorin 7A positively correlated with NIHSS scores (r = 0.390. p = 0.008). Semaphorin 3A and 4A levels showed significant correlations with inflammatory markers and lipid profiles. Semaphorin 3A was higher in female patients. No associations were found with TOAST subtypes or treatment modalities. Five (11.1%) patients died due to stroke-related complications, no significant differences in semaphorin levels were observed between survivors and non-survivors. Conclusions: Semaphorin 3A, 4A, and 7A levels may serve as potential biomarkers for inflammation and disease severity in acute ischemic stroke. Semaphorin 7A, in particular, showed strong prognostic value due to its association with stroke severity. These findings suggest that semaphorins could aid in clinical risk stratification and early intervention planning in ischemic stroke.
Developmental and epileptic encephalopathies (DEEs) are a heterogeneous group of brain disorders. Variants in the Rho-related BTB domain-containing 2 gene (RHOBTB2) can lead to DEE64, which is characterized by early-onset epilepsy, varying degrees of motor developmental delay and intellectual disability, microcephaly, and movement disorders. More than half of the variants are located at Arg483 and Arg511 within the BTB domain; however, the underlying mechanism of action of these hotspot variants remains unexplored.We performed whole-exome and Sanger sequencing on the patient and his parents. We collected recurrent variant information from the literature on RHOBTB2 variants. We used Discovery Studio software to analyze the folding free energy of variant proteins, and the AlphaFold database to analyze structural alterations in mutant proteins.The patient presented with early-onset epilepsy, developmental delay, and brain structural abnormalities. Genetic analysis revealed a de novo variant in RHOBTB2, c.1532G>A, p.(Arg511Gln). To date, 60 cases of DEE patients with RHOBTB2 variants have been reported, with approximately 50% of variants located at Arg483 and Arg511. Among them, p.Arg511Gln, p.Arg483His, and p.Arg511Trp have an incidence rate exceeding 10%. The folding free energy of these high-frequency variants proteins is reduced, which may lead to increased structural stability.This study highlights the importance of RHOBTB2 hotspot variants in DEE64 and provides insights into their potential mechanisms of action. We recommend RHOBTB2 gene testing for patients with relevant clinical manifestations to facilitate precise diagnosis and treatment of DEE.© 2025 The Author(s). Molecular Genetics & Genomic Medicine published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
In intensive care units, COVID-19 viral pneumonia patients (VPP) present symptoms similar to those of other patients with Nonviral infection (NV-ICU). To better manage VPP, it is therefore interesting to better understand the molecular pathophysiology of viral pneumonia and to search for biomarkers that may clarify the diagnosis. The secretome being a set of proteins secreted by cells in response to stimuli represents an opportunity to discover new biomarkers. The objective of this study is to identify the secretomic signatures of VPP with those of NV-ICU. Plasma samples and clinical data from NV-ICU (n = 104), VPP (n = 30) or healthy donors (HD, n = 20) were collected at Nantes Hospital (France) upon admission. Samples were enriched for the low-abundant proteins and analyzed using nontarget mass spectrometry. Specifically deregulated proteins (DEP) in VPP versus NV-ICU were selected. Combinations of 2 to 4 DEPs were established. The differences in secretome profiles of the VPP and NV-ICU groups were highlighted. Forty-one DEPs were specifically identified in VPP compared to NV-ICU. We describe five of the best combinations of 3 proteins (complement component C9, Ficolin-3, Galectin-3-binding protein, Fibrinogen alpha, gamma and beta chain, Proteoglycan 4, Coagulation factor IX and Cdc42 effector protein 4) that show a characteristic receptor function curve with an area under the curve of 95.0%. This study identifies five combinations of candidate biomarkers in VPP compared to NV-ICU that may help distinguish the underlying causal molecular alterations.© 2024 The Author(s). Journal of Medical Virology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is one of the most common hematologic malignancies with a poor prognosis and high recurrence rate. The discovery of new predictive models and therapeutic agents plays a crucial role.The differentially expressed gene that was explicitly highly expressed in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and GSE9476 transcriptome databases were screened and included in the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression model to derive risk coefficients and build a risk score model. Functional enrichment analysis was conducted on the screened hub genes to explore the potential mechanisms. Subsequently, critical genes were incorporated into a nomogram model based on risk scores to analyze prognostic value. Finally, this study combined network pharmacology to find potential natural compounds for hub genes and used molecular docking to verify the binding ability of molecular structures to natural compounds to explore drug development for possible efficacy in AML.A total of 33 highly expressed genes may be associated with poor prognosis of AML patients. After LASSO and multivariate Cox regression analysis of 33 critical genes, Rho-related BTB domain containing 2 (RHOBTB2), phospholipase A2 (PLA2G4A), interleukin-2 receptor-α (IL2RA), cysteine and glycine-rich protein 1 (CSRP1), and olfactomedin-like 2A (OLFML2A) were found to played a significant role in the prognosis of AML patients. CSRP1 and OLFML2A were independent prognostic factors of AML. The predictive power of these 5 hub genes in combination with clinical features was better than clinical data alone in predicting AML in the column line graphs and had better predictive value at 1, 3, and 5 years. Finally, through network pharmacology and molecular docking, this study found that diosgenin in Guadi docked well with PLA2G4A, beta-sitosterol in Fangji docked well with IL2RA, and OLFML2A docked well with 3,4-di-O-caffeoylquinic acid in Beiliujinu.The predictive model of RHOBTB2, PLA2G4A, IL2RA, CSRP1, and OLFML2A combined with clinical features can better guide the prognosis of AML. In addition, the stable docking of PLA2G4A, IL2RA, and OLFML2A with natural compounds may provide new options for treating AML.2023 Translational Cancer Research. All rights reserved.
To explore the role of atorvastatin in regulating intraocular pressure (IOP) in glaucoma in vivo, and to investigate its related molecular pathway in vitro, an ocular hypertension model was generated by intravitreal injection of an adenoviral vector encoding transforming growth factor (TGF)‑β2 in the right eye of BALB/cJ mice, while the left was treated with an empty control adenovirus. To determine its anti‑intraocular hypertension role, these induced hyper‑IOP mice were gavaged with atorvastatin (20 mg/kg/day). Furthermore, extracellular matrix (ECM) factors were examined in the primary human trabecular meshwork (HTM) cells followed atorvastatin (0~200 µM) treatment in vitro. Whole genome microarray was employed to identify potential therapeutic target molecules associated with ECM regulation. Unilateral murine ocular hypertension was induced, via intravitreal injection of the adenoviral vector carrying the human TGF‑β2 gene (Ad.hTGF‑β2226/228), raising IOP from 12±1.6 to 32.3±0.7 mmHg (n=6, P<0.05) at day 15, which plateaued from day 15 to 30. Atorvastatin administration from day 15 to 30 decreased IOP from 32.3±0.7 to 15.4±1.1 mmHg (n=6, P<0.05) at day 30. Additionally, atorvastatin administration changed the morphology of cultured HTM cells from an elongated and adherent morphology into rounded, less elongated and less adherent cells, accompanied with suppressed expression of ECM. Gene Ontology and Genome analysis revealed that FGD4 (FYVE, RhoGEF and PH domain containing 4) might be a key factor contributing to these changes. Our data demonstrated that atorvastatin reduced TGF‑β2‑induced ocular hypertension in vivo, perhaps via modifying cellular structure and decreasing ECM, using the FGD4 signaling pathway, as demonstrated in HTM cells. Our findings provide some useful information for the management of glaucoma, with statin therapy revealing a potential novel therapeutic pathway for glaucoma treatment.
Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) is a hereditary sensory and motor peripheral neuropathy that is one of the most common inherited neurological diseases of humans and may be caused by mutations in a number of different genes. The subtype Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4H (CMT4H) is caused by homozygous mutations in the FGD4 (FYVE, RhoGEF, and PH domain-containing 4) gene. A previous genome-wide association study involving 130,783 dairy cows found 6 novel variants, one of which was a homozygous splice site mutation in the FGD4 gene. Descendants of carriers were genotyped to identify 9 homozygous Holstein Friesian calves that were raised to maturity, of which 5 were euthanized and sampled for histopathology and electron microscopy at 2 and 2.5 years of age. Three control Holstein Friesian animals were raised with the calves and euthanized at the same time points. No macroscopic lesions consistent with CMT4H were seen at necropsy. Microscopically, peripheral nerves were hypercellular due to hyperplasia of S100-positive Schwann cells, and there was onion bulb formation, axonal degeneration with demyelination, and increased thickness of the endoneurium. On electron microscopy, decreased axonal density, onion bulb formations, myelin outfoldings, and increased numbers of mitochondria were present. These changes are consistent with those described in mouse models and humans with CMT4H, making these cattle a potential large animal model for CMT.
Cell division control protein 42 homolog (Cdc42), one of the most characteristic members of the Rho protein family, is required for multiple aspects of dendritic morphogenesis. However, the proteins mediating the regulatory effects of Cdc42 activity on neuronal morphology are largely unknown. Cdc42 effector protein‑4 (CEP4) was identified to be a binding partner of Rho GTPase 4 and is ubiquitously expressed in all adult tissues. However, the physiological function of CEP4 in neurons is unknown. In the present study, immunofluorescence and western blot analysis were conducted, revealing that CEP4 is highly expressed in the brain, and that the expression of CEP4 is gradually increased during neurodevelopment. Knockdown of CEP4 with short hairpin RNA suppressed dendrite growth, whereas overexpression of wild‑type CEP4 promoted dendrite growth in primary isolated mouse hippocampal neurons. Collectively, these results indicated an important role for CEP4 in dendrite growth in hippocampal neurons.
BACKGROUND: Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a highly aggressive hematologic malignancy. Currently, targeted therapy represents a transformative approach in the treatment of this disease. Semaphorin 4A (SEMA4A) is a member of the semaphorin family of soluble and transmembrane proteins. Recent evidence further identifies it as a novel immunotherapeutic target in myeloma. However, its functional significance in AML remains elusive. OBJECTIVE: This study investigates the expression of SEMA4A in AML and its potential pathogenic mechanisms. METHODS: Initially, we performed database analysis to evaluate SEMA4A expression. To investigate its biological function, SEMA4A was silenced in AML cells via shRNA, and RT-qPCR and Western blot confirmed its knockdown. Apoptosis, differentiation, and cell cycle were assessed by flow cytometry. Combination drug assays further validated a role of SEMA4A in mediating chemoresistance. In vivo, the growth of leukemic cells and mouse survival were assessed through xenotransplantation models. RNA sequencing ultimately uncovered the underlying mechanisms driving these phenotypes. RESULTS: SEMA4A deletion in AML cells reduced proliferative and clonogenic capacity. We observed increased apoptosis, enhanced differentiation, and G0/G1 cell cycle arrest. Furthermore, SEMA4A deletion in vivo prolonged survival. Mechanistically, RNA-seq analysis revealed significant activation of apoptotic pathways following SEMA4A loss. Notably, SEMA4A knockdown led to a marked reduction in BCL-2 expression and upregulation of the BCL-2 family members BMF and BBC3. SEMA4A deficiency also sensitized AML cells to chemotherapy, lowering effective drug doses and inducing extensive apoptosis. CONCLUSION: Our findings revealed the oncogenic role for SEMA4A, suggesting it represents a promising therapeutic target in AML patients.
Tunneling nanotubes (TNTs) are thin, actin-based intercellular bridges that enable long-range communication during cellular stress; yet the molecular pathway controlling their formation remains unclear. Here, using gain- and loss-of-function approaches in Cath. a-differentiated (CAD) neuronal cells, we identified a unidirectional regulatory pathway in which myosin-X (Myo10) functions upstream of the actin-bundling protein L-(LCP1) to drive TNT formation. Using Western blotting and fluorescence microscopy, we determined that overexpression of L-plastin significantly increased the proportion of TNT-connected cells, whereas L-plastin downregulation reduced TNT formation, demonstrating that L-plastin is both sufficient and necessary for maintaining normal TNT abundance. Having previously shown that Myo10 is required for TNT formation in CAD cells, we asked whether the relationship is reciprocal. Overexpression/downregulation of L-plastin had no effect on Myo10 protein levels. Conversely, Myo10 downregulation decreased endogenous L-plastin by ~30%, and Myo10 overexpression elevated L-plastin expression and TNT number, demonstrating that Myo10 acts as an upstream regulator of L-plastin. Dual-color 3D imaging revealed co-localization of Myo10 and L-plastin along TNT shafts and filopodia-like precursors (Proto-TNTs). Together, these findings demonstrate that Myo10-dependent TNT formation requires the bundling protein L-plastin, providing a framework for how stress-induced signaling cascades couple TNT initiation to actin-core stabilization during stress and disease.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41321321
This study analyzed the changes in the composition of thin filaments in spastic muscles after stroke to investigate the mechanism underlying changes in the sarcomeres. Twenty-four rats were randomly divided into four groups: normal, and 3, 6, and 9 days after stroke. A model of post-stroke gastrocnemius muscle spasm was created. Quantitative proteomic procedure and bioinformatics analysis revealed significant changes in cytoskeletal protein expressions in gastrocnemius muscles of each stroke group, particularly those on thin filaments. On the 3rd day after stroke, proteins upregulated within the thin filaments included actin-binding LIM protein 1, tropomyosin 3, leiomodin 2, drebrin-like protein, parvin beta, capping actin protein-gelsolin like, actinin alpha 2, and PDZ-LIM-domain protein 1, while downregulated proteins included tropomyosin 1, gelsolin, actinin alpha 3, and PDZ-LIM-domain protein 7. On the sixth day, upregulation of tropomyosin 2 was newly added while parvin alpha, destrin, PDZ-LIM-domain protein 3, leiomodin 3 were downregulated. On the 9th day, actinin alpha 2, PDZ-LIM-domain protein 7, and cofilin 2 were downregulated. These altered proteins are capable of promoting actin filament elongation and regulating Z-disc growth, and changes in their expression may be responsible for the changes in spastic muscle sarcomere after stroke.
Myosin-X (MYO10) is an actin-based motor protein involved in cytoskeletal dynamics, membrane interactions, and integrin-mediated adhesion. To investigate MYO10's cellular roles, we generated MYO10 knockdown (MYO10 KD ) HeLa and COS7 cell lines using lentiviral shRNA. Compared to wild-type cells, both MYO10 KD lines showed reduced proliferation and impaired cell migration in wound assays. Additionally, there were fewer edge filopodia in HeLa cells. Furthermore, MYO10 KD cells demonstrated increased spreading on laminin-coated substrates, suggesting altered integrin activation and cytoskeletal linkage. Our results reinforce MYO10's importance in cell proliferation, adhesion, and migration. These MYO10 KD lines provide an accessible cell culture model for future study of MYO10.Copyright: © 2025 by the authors.
The involvement of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) in glioma carcinogenesis has gradually been identified. Herein, we aimed to explore the function and mechanism of lncRNA muskelin 1 antisense RNA (MKLN1-AS) in glioma cell oncogenic properties. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction was utilized to test the expression of MKLN1-AS, miR-126-5p, and TEAD1 (TEA Domain Transcription Factor 1) mRNA expression. Oncogenic properties of glioma cells were characterized using 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine, flow cytometry, wound healing, transwell, and tube formation assays, respectively. Levels of TEAD1 protein, mobility-related proteins, and Hippo pathway-related proteins were examined by Western blotting. The binding between miR-126-5p and MKLN1-AS or TEAD1 was confirmed by using dual-luciferase reporter and pull-down assays. The murine xenograft model was established for in vivo analysis. Levels of MKLN1-AS in glioma tissues and cell lines were higher, functionally, MKLN1-AS deficiency could suppress glioma cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and angiogenesis, and induce apoptosis in vitro, as well as impede tumor growth in vivo. Mechanistically, miR-126-5p was targeted by MKLN1-AS, miR-126-5p directly targeted TEAD1. The suppressing effects of MKLN1-AS deficiency on glioma cell oncogenic properties were abolished by TEAD1 overexpression or miR-126-5p inhibition. Besides, MKLN1-AS/miR-126-5p mediates the activation of Hippo pathway by TEAD1. MKLN1-AS knockdown weakened glioma cell oncogenic phenotypes and growth via TEAD1-Hippo pathway through miR-126-5p, indicating a new therapeutic target for glioma molecular therapy.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Disulfidptosis is a novel cell death mode in which the accumulation of disulfide bonds in tumor cells leads to cell disintegration and death. Long-stranded noncoding RNAs (LncRNAs) are aberrantly expressed in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and have been reported to carry significant potential as a biomarker for HCC prognosis. However, lncRNA studies with disulfidptosis in hepatocellular carcinoma have rarely been reported. Therefore, this study aimed to construct a risk prognostic model based on the disulfidptosis-related lncRNA and investigate the mechanisms associated with disulfidptosis in hepatocellular carcinoma. The clinical and transcriptional information of 424 HCC patients was downloaded from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and divided into test and validation sets. Furthermore, 1668 lncRNAs associated with disulfidptosis were identified using Pearson correlation. Six lncRNA constructs were finally identified for the risk prognostic model using one-way Cox proportional hazards (COX), multifactorial COX, and lasso regression. Kaplan-Meier (KM) analysis, principal component analysis, receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC), C-index, and column-line plot results confirmed that the constructed model was an independent prognostic factor. Based on the disulfidptosis risk score, risk groups were identified as potential predictors of immune cell infiltration, drug sensitivity, and immunotherapy responsiveness. Finally, we confirmed that phospholipase B domain containing 1 antisense RNA 1 (PLBD1-AS1) and muskelin 1 antisense RNA (MKLN1-AS) were highly expressed in hepatocellular carcinoma and might be potential biomarkers in HCC by KM analysis and quantitative real-time PCR (RT-qPCR). This study demonstrated that lncRNA related to disulfidptosis could serve as a biomarker to predict prognosis and treatment targets for HCC.
Long non-coding RNAs are essential to hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) development, progression, and incidence of drug resistance. However, the biological significance of long non-coding RNA muskelin 1 antisense RNA (MKLN1-AS) remains poorly characterized. In this study, we observed noticeable increased levels of MKLN1-AS in HCC tissues. This upregulation of MKLN1-AS was clinically associated with vascular invasion and decreased disease-free survival and overall survival of patients with HCC. Functionally, MKLN1-AS-knockdown dramatically suppressed the metastasis and growth of HCC cells in vitro and in vivo. Additionally, the knockdown of MKLN1-AS augmented the pro-apoptosis effect of lenvatinib. Taken together, our findings indicate that MKLN1-AS may be exploited as a potential prognostic predictor and therapeutic target for HCC treatment.
Gliomas are the most common brain malignancies characterized by high degree of aggressiveness and high mortality. However, the underlying mechanism of glioma progression remains unclear. Here, we probed the role of CDC42EP3 (CDC42 effector protein 3) played in glioma development and its potential downstream mechanism. The expression of CDC42EP3 in tumor and normal brain tissues were examined through immunohistochemistry and we found the likelihood of CDC42EP3 overexpression was positively correlated with pathological grading. Patients with higher expression of CDC42EP3 were more likely to suffer from recurrence as well. Through constructing CDC42EP3-knockdown cell models, we discovered that silencing CDC42EP3 significantly restricted cell proliferation and migration but facilitated cell apoptosis in vitro. Inhibition on tumor growth mediated by CDC42EP3 depletion was further verified in vivo. Regarding downstream target of CDC42EP3, we found that it may positively regulate the expression of CCND1 through c-Myc-mediated transcription. Furthermore, our findings affirmed that effects of CDC42EP3 overexpression on cell proliferation, migration and apoptosis could be confined by depleting CCND1. In a word, this study reported the tumor-promoting role of CDC42EP3 in glioma progression which probably functioned through targeting CCND1.© 2022. The Author(s).
Alpha-parvin (α-pv), an adaptor protein that mediates integrin-dependent cell-matrix interactions, is essential for endothelial cells migration and proliferation and is a key player in physiological angiogenesis. The role of α-pv in pathological angiogenesis is unknown. Here we demonstrate that endothelial α-pv is required for tumour angiogenesis. Using an inducible knockout approach in which the α-pv gene (Parva) was inactivated specifically in endothelial cells of brain tumour-bearing mice, we show that loss of endothelial α-pv results in reduced vessel density and decreased vascular complexity of the pathological neo-vasculature without affecting the structure of the brain vasculature around tumour. Reduced tumour vascularisation is associated with a significant increase in tumour cell apoptosis and a reduction in tumour volume. Together, our data show for the first time that endothelial α-pv is required for tumour vascularisation and tumour progression in vivo.© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Osteosarcoma is a disease with high mortality of malignant tumors in children and adolescents. CDC42 effector protein 3 (CDC42EP3) has been reported to be associated with human cancer cell progression. This study aimed to investigate the biological function and preliminary molecular mechanism of CDC42EP3 in osteosarcoma.CDC42EP3 expression in osteosarcoma was analyzed by immunohistochemical (IHC) staining. Secondly, the biological effects of CDC42EP3 in osteosarcoma cells was determined by loss/gain-of-function assays in vitro and in vivo.CDC42EP3 expression was higher in osteosarcoma tissue than in noncancerous tissue. The expression of CDC42EP3 was positively correlated with age, pathological stage and grade of patients with osteosarcoma. Furthermore, downregulation of CDC42EP3 suppressed tumor progression by inhibiting proliferation, migration and inducing apoptosis in vivo. Importantly, knockdown of CDC42EP3 reduced the expression of interstitial markers (N-cadherin, Vimentin and Snail) and increased the expression of epithelial markers (E-cadherin). In addition, CDC42EP3 knockdown downregulated PI3K and reduced the phosphorylation levels of AKT and mTOR. The mice xenograft model further confirmed that CDC42EP3 knockdown inhibited osteosarcoma growth in vitro.In summary, these findings highlighted the significance of CDC42EP3 in tumor progression, which implicated CDC42EP3 as a promising candidate molecular target for osteosarcoma therapy.Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Long noncoding RNA muskelin 1 antisense RNA (MKLN1-AS) acted as an oncogenic regulator in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). This study was performed to investigate the functional mechanism of MKLN1-AS. MKLN1-AS, microRNA-22-3p (miR-22-3p) and ETS Proto-Oncogene 1 (ETS1) levels were examined using reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase-chain reaction. Protein expression was detected by Western blot. The target relation was analyzed by dual-luciferase reporter assay, RNA immunoprecipitation assay and RNA pull-down assay. Cell proliferation ability was determined through cell counting kit-8 assay, colony formation assay and ethylenediurea assay. Angiogenesis was examined by tube formation assay. Cell migration and invasion were assessed via transwell assay. In vivo research was conducted by xenograft tumor model in nude mice. MKLN1-AS was upregulated in HCC tissues and cells. ETS1 promoted the ETS1 expression by binding to the 582-596 sites. Silence of MKLN1-AS suppressed cell growth, angiogenesis, migration, and invasion. MKLN1-AS interacted with miR-22-3p in HCC cells. The function of MKLN1-AS downregulation was relieved by miR-22-3p inhibition in HCC cells. ETS1 was validated as a target of miR-22-3p, and MKLN1-AS upregulated the ETS1 expression by sponging miR-22-3p. Overexpression of miR-22-3p retarded HCC progression by downregulating the level of ETS1. Tumor growth in vivo was also enhanced by MKLN1-AS through the regulation of miR-22-3p/ETS1 axis. These data demonstrated that ETS1-mediated MKLN1-AS contributed to the malignant phenotypes of HCC cells via depending on the miR-22-3p/ETS1 regulatory axis.
Cell resistance to taxanes involves several complementary mechanisms, among which septin relocalization from actin stress fibers to microtubules plays an early role. By investigating the molecular mechanism underlying this relocalization, we found that acute paclitaxel treatment triggers the release from stress fibers and subsequent proteasome-mediated degradation of binder of Rho GTPases 2 (BORG2)/Cdc42 effector protein 3 (Cdc42EP3) and to a lesser extent of BORG3/Cdc42EP5, two Cdc42 effectors that link septins to actin in interphase cells. BORG2 or BORG3 silencing not only caused septin detachment from stress fibers but also mimicked the effects of paclitaxel by triggering both septin relocalization to microtubules and significant drug resistance. Conversely, BORG2 or BORG3 overexpression retained septins on actin fibers even after paclitaxel treatment, without affecting paclitaxel sensitivity. We found that drug-induced inhibition of Cdc42 resulted in a drop in BORG2 level and in the relocalization of septins to microtubules. Accordingly, although septins relocalized when overexpressing an inactive mutant of Cdc42, the expression of a constitutively active mutant acted locally at actin stress fibers to prevent septin release, even after paclitaxel treatment. These findings reveal the role of Cdc42 upstream of BORG2 and BORG3 in controlling the interplay between septins, actin fibers, and microtubules in basal condition and in response to taxanes.Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Gastric cancer (GC) is one of the most prevalent cancers and severely endangers human health. Due to the low rate of diagnosis, most patients with GC are diagnosed as advanced. CDC42 effector protein 3 (CDC42EP3) has been revealed to be involved in several types of human cancers' development and progression. However, the function of CDC42EP3 in GC is not yet clear. CDC42EP3 expression was detected by immunohistochemistry, quantitative real-time PCR and Western blot assay in tumor tissues and cell lines of GC. CDC42EP3 knockdown cell models were constructed by lentivirus transfection. Cell proliferation was evaluated by the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazole-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay. The wound-healing assay and the transwell assay were utilized to assess the cell migration. Also, the cell apoptosis and the cell cycle were evaluated by flow cytometry. Moreover, the mechanism was investigated by Human Apoptosis Antibody Array. The in vivo experiments were conducted to verify the effects of CDC42EP3 knockdown on the tumor growth of GC. The expression level of CDC42EP3 was up-regulated in tumor tissues. High CDC42EP3 expression was positively related to more advanced tumor grade. CDC42EP3 knockdown inhibited cell proliferation and migration, promoted cell apoptosis and suppressed the tumor growth. On the other hand, it was also found that the silencing of CDC42EP3 inhibited HSP27 and IGF-1sR expression as well as promoted Caspase3, p53, TNF-α, TNF-β, TRAILR-1 and TRAILR-2 expression. CDC42EP3 was revealed to work as a tumor promoter in the development and progression of GC, which could be a promising therapeutic target for the therapy of GC.© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.
Aberrant lipid metabolism is a hallmark of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), yet the regulatory mechanisms governing lipid droplet (LD) dynamics and their contribution to tumor progression remain poorly understood. Here, we developed an ultrasensitive phosphoproteomic platform using high-affinity HPDA@Ti4+ nanospheres to map LD-associated phosphorylation events across six HCC cell lines. By correlating phosphoproteomic signatures with LD morphology, we identified distinct regulatory signatures associated with LD size and abundance. Functional perturbation screens identified two distinct phosphoprotein modules controlling LD size: silencing SH3KBP1, SLK, EHD2, EPB41L3, and NEXN reduced LD size in Huh1 cells, whereas silencing CPD, BET1, UFL1, RRP1B, OGFR, and CD2BP2 enlarged LDs in Huh7 cells. Notably, we identified EPB41L3 as a critical metabolic-metastatic link; its loss decreased LD size and accelerated HCC migration and invasion, correlating with poor clinical prognosis. Crucially, we identified five key phosphorylation sites on EPB41L3 essential for its function; substituting these with alanine completely abolished its regulatory control over both LD size and HCC metastatic potential. Together, these findings delineate a phosphorylation-based regulatory network controlling the LD architecture and metastatic potential in HCC. Our study not only identifies potential therapeutic targets but also establishes a generalizable phosphoproteomic framework for interrogating lipid signaling in cancer metabolism.
The class 3 semaphorin SEMA3A is a secreted glycoprotein that serves as an evolutionary conserved axon repellent with proposed vascular functions. In mice, SEMA3A is dispensable for developmental brain, limb or trunk blood vessel patterning, but restricts vessel branching in the zebrafish embryo trunk. Whereas neuropilin 1 (NRP1) is thought to be the SEMA3A receptor in the mouse, prior reports identified Plexin D1 as the Sema3a receptor in zebrafish trunk vessel patterning, with previous knockdown and knockout studies yielding contradictory results on Nrp1 requirement for vessel patterning in zebrafish. To resolve these discrepancies, we have refined the prior knockdown strategy to limit off target effects and generated mutant zebrafish embryos lacking both Nrp1a and Nrp1b paralogues to show that Nrp1 restricts trunk vessel patterning in a Sema3a-dependent manner. In agreement, we found that NRP1 is required in human endothelial cells for SEMA3A-induced repulsion. Moreover, we show that SEMA3A action via NRP1 does not involve the splicing regulation of FLT1, previously proposed to act downstream of Plexin D1. Instead, sustained NRP1 activation independent of SEMA3A increases the expression of the anti-angiogenic soluble FLT1 (sFLT1), establishing a feedback mechanism to limit endothelial proliferation. Together, these findings demonstrate a dual role for NRP1 in shaping physiological vascular morphogenesis. Thus, NRP1 mediates repulsive SEMA3A cues in endothelial cells, in analogy to its role in axon guidance, and further restricts angiogenesis by promoting the release of sFLT1 in a SEMA3A-independent manner.
Myelin sheaths are generated from differentiated plasma membranes of oligodendroglial cells (oligodendrocytes) during development. Despite detailed functional studies, such as aiding nerve conduction velocity, it remains unclear which extracellular signals from neurons interact with oligodendrocytes to control oligodendrocyte development and how these are achieved. Herein, we demonstrate that the Plexin molecule Plexin-B3, generally known as a receptor for Sema family signaling proteins, is specifically expressed in oligodendrocytes and plays a key role in promoting oligodendrocyte maturation and myelination. Oligodendrocyte-specific conditional male knock-out mice of Plexin-B3 exhibited decreased myelin thickness and myelin marker protein expression, compared with littermate controls. Unexpectedly, we identified heat shock protein family A member 5 (HSPA5)/Grp78/BiP as the neuron-secreted ligand of Plexin-B3. Indeed, neuron-specific knockdown of HSPA5 in male mice revealed a critical role for myelin thickness not only at the biochemical level but also at the histochemical one. Furthermore, the transcription factor Nkx2.8, which plays a role in oligodendrocytes, was identified as a potential mediator of Plexin-B3 signaling. Our results suggest that the interaction of extracellular HSPA5 with Plexin-B3 on oligodendrocytes, acting possibly through Nkx2.8, regulates oligodendrocyte maturation and myelination. This ligand and receptor interaction and a downstream molecule are newly added to the list of emerging signaling units controlling myelination.Copyright © 2026 the authors.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42005444 is a review article
This study aimed to identify novel signaling axes governing keloid pathogenesis by investigating the role of the semaphorin 3C (SEMA3C)/plexin D1 (PLXND1) pathway in fibrotic processes via transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1 signaling, using single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and experimental validation. scRNA-seq analysis was performed on eight keloid and eight normal skin samples from four public data sets, using Seurat and CellChat to map intercellular communication networks. Primary keloid fibroblasts were treated with recombinant SEMA3C, PLXND1-specific siRNA, or the TGF-β1 inhibitor SB431542. Transcriptome sequencing, real-time quantitative PCR, Western blot analysis, and immunofluorescence were used to assess changes in collagen I/III, fibronectin, and TGF-β1 expression. scRNA-seq revealed significantly enhanced intercellular communication in keloids, particularly among fibroblasts, with a 1.65-fold increase in interaction numbers and 17.79-fold stronger communication strength compared with normal skin. A critical ligand-receptor pair, SEMA3C (predominantly secreted by Schwann cells) and its receptor PLXND1 (overexpressed in keloid fibroblasts), was identified as the most prevalent in keloid samples. Experimental assays demonstrated that SEMA3C dose dependently up-regulated collagen I/III, fibronectin, and TGF-β1 expression, whereas PLXND1 knockdown or TGF-β1 inhibition (via SB431542) attenuated these effects, confirming that SEMA3C/PLXND1 drives fibrosis through TGF-β1 signaling. This study is the first to demonstrate that the SEMA3C/PLXND1 axis drives keloid fibrosis by activating TGF-β1, promoting extracellular matrix deposition. Targeting this axis holds promise for keloid therapy.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Acute kidney injury (AKI) often leads to incomplete recovery of renal function, progressing to chronic kidney disease (CKD). Key pathological features in the AKI-CKD transition include microvascular rarefaction and fibrosis. However, the direct effects of activated fibroblasts on microvasculature and endothelial cells remain unclear. We constructed a single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) database from unilateral ischemia reperfusion injury (uIRI) mouse model and identified five heterogeneous fibroblast subpopulations, with C0-Sema3dhi fibroblasts significantly increasing post-injury and correlating with reduced endothelial cells. Conditioned medium from Sema3dhi-NRK49F cells inhibited focal adhesion formation and induced cytoskeletal collapse in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), preventing migration and angiogenesis. Mechanistically, Sema3dhi fibroblasts secrete Sema3d, activating the endothelial Plexin D1 receptor, leading to Arf6 activation and integrin β1 internalization, thus suppressing endothelial function. Systemic administration of Sema3d-shRNA using adeno-associated virus serotype 9 (AAV9) effectively reduced Sema3d levels and significantly alleviated renal fibrosis in mice. The presence of SEMA3D+ fibroblasts was confirmed by analyzing human scRNA-seq data and through immunofluorescence staining of kidney sections from patients with kidney diseases. This study reveals new target for mitigating renal fibrosis and microvascular loss, suggesting that targeting the Sema3d signaling pathway may provide a novel strategy for preventing AKI fibrotic progression.© The author(s).
To elucidate the features of plexin D1-immunoglobulin (Ig)G-associated neuropathic pain and its relationship to atopic myelitis (AM) in a nationwide Japanese survey.A preliminary survey questionnaire was sent to 1574 selected departments (neurology and pediatrics/pediatric neurology) to explore the numbers of AM and plexin D1-IgG-positive patients between 2018 and 2022. A secondary survey collected detailed patient data via a questionnaire.In the preliminary survey, 987 (62.7%) institutions responded, reporting 87 AM patients (49 women) and 11 plexin D1-IgG-positive non-AM patients (8 women). The secondary survey collected 71 AM (plexin D1-IgG-positive: 6/31) and 11 plexin D1-IgG-positive non-AM patients (83.7% recovery rate). In AM, paresthesia/dysesthesia was most frequently experienced (> 90%), followed by pain (> 70%). The underlying diseases in 17 plexin D1-IgG-positive patients, all of whom had neuropathic pain, were AM and small fiber neuropathy in 6 each, neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder with aquaporin-4-IgG in 2, and painful trigeminal neuropathy, erythromelalgia, and multiple sclerosis in 1 each. When 14 plexin D1-IgG-positive patients (excluding 3 patients with established demyelinating diseases) were compared with 25 plexin D1-IgG-negative AM patients, onset ≥ 50 years old, pain at onset, and allodynia/erythromelalgia/facial pain during the entire disease course were significantly more common in the plexin D1-IgG-positive group. Conversely, atopic disorders and hyperIgEemia were associated with plexin D1-IgG-negative AM but not plexin D1-IgG-positive patients.Both AM and plexin D1-IgG-positive patients present long-standing neuropathic pain, whereas plexin D1-IgG is particularly associated with aged-onset neuropathic pain, allodynia, erythromelalgia, and facial pain, but not atopy.© 2025 The Author(s). Annals of Clinical and Translational Neurology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Neurological Association.
Little is known as to whether there may be a patogenetic continuum among subsets of lung neuroendocrine neoplasms (NENs), including both neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) and neuroendocrine carcinomas (NECs). In this study, transcriptomic data from 205 pulmonary NETs and NECs were collected from four publicly available datasets and analyzed through supervised clustering of a curated 20-gene signature dealing with neuroendocrine differentiation, key oncogenic pathways, chromatin remodeling genes, and lineage-specific transcription factors. Two major clusters were identified, PNEN-A and PNEN-B. Compared to PNEN-A and independently of histological typing, PNEN-B demonstrated reduced neuroendocrine gene expression and increased activation of pulmonary epithelial cell lineages, such as glandular (club/AT2⁺), basal (ΔNp63⁺/p63⁺/CK5⁺), and tuft cell (POU2F3⁺) differentiation. PNEN-B tumors also exhibited features of inflamed but functionally constrained immune microenvironment, with increased expression of immunomodulatory neuropeptides (calcitonin, proopiomelanocortin, and gastrin-releasing peptide), alongside enrichment of T cell exhaustion markers. PNEN-B tumors significantly correlated with poor prognosis in a subset of cases. These findings reveal common transcriptional programs across the entire spectrum of pulmonary NENs, independent of histological typing. Attenuation of neuroendocrine differentiation, activation of alternative cell lineages, and modulation of microenvironment highlight subsets of tumors with potential pathogenetic and clinical implications.© 2026. The Author(s).
Loss of estrogens at menopause is linked to impaired brain metabolism and increased risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, estrogen replacement therapies are limited due to the deleterious effects of estrogen on peripheral organs and increased risk of vascular dementia. We have developed a non-steroidal estrogenic compound, STX, which does not bind to the classical estrogen receptors α and β, but mimics estrogenic signaling in the central nervous system (CNS) without the peripheral reproductive actions. STX is protective against neurodegeneration in stroke and AD models, but its molecular targets are unknown. Here, we identified and validated STX neural targets using chemoproteomic, molecular biological, electrophysiological and metabolic assays of hypothalamic proopiomelanocortin (POMC) neurons. Chemoproteomic profiling identified voltage dependent anion channels (VDAC1-3) as major intracellular binding partners in mHypo43 (POMC) cells. Based on quantitative single-cell PCR, Vdac2 was identified as the dominant isoform in female hypothalamic POMC neurons. Seahorse metabolic flux analyses showed that STX potently increased glycolysis, oxidative respiration and mitochondrial ATP production in mHypo43 cells. Nanomolar concentrations of STX enhanced VDAC2 voltage-dependent gating in reconstituted lipid membranes and shifted the low-conductance states toward anion selectivity, consistent with increased ATP flux. Together, these findings reveal a mechanism for the neuroprotective effects of STX through enhancing mitochondrial bioenergetics and modulating VDAC channel properties, potentially increasing cellular energy stores. Therefore, this work identifies previously unrecognized estrogenic mitochondrial targets and provides a mechanistic basis for the neuroprotective actions of STX relevant to menopause-associated brain vulnerability.
Signal peptide (SP)-uncleaved proopiomelanocortin (POMC) accumulates in the cytosol when ER translocation or protein quality control is perturbed. Here, we present a protocol to prepare and validate a POMC SP-specific antibody. We then use this antibody to detect cytosol-retained SP-uncleaved POMC in mammalian cells. We describe steps for using sequential digitonin-based semi-permeabilization followed by Triton X-100 lysis to isolate cytosolic and organelle fractions. We then detect cytosolic POMC by immunoblotting upon genetic depletion or enrich it by SP-specific immunoprecipitation. For complete details on the use and execution of this protocol, please refer to Mun et al.1.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
PNPLA6 is a conserved lysophospholipase essential for maintaining nervous system integrity. Biallelic mutations in PNPLA6 have been identified in individuals with a broad spectrum of disorders that can include ataxia, vision loss, and pituitary hormone deficiency. Here, we report the identification of novel compound heterozygous variants in PNPLA6 (p.T1115P and p.Pro1142_Ala1143ins14) in a 10-year-old girl with combined pituitary hormone deficiency, including growth hormone, thyroid-stimulating hormone, and gonadotropins. She also has vision loss and neurodevelopmental delay. Functional validation demonstrates that both variants, a missense substitution affecting a highly conserved residue within the catalytic domain and an intronic variant generating a novel splice acceptor site, completely abolish NTE activity, establishing their pathogenicity. Little is known about the cause of hypopituitarism in individuals with PNPLA6 deficiency. Here, we report the cell-type-specific expression of PNPLA6 in mouse pituitary development and in adult animals. PNPLA6 is expressed broadly in SOX2+ stem cells within the pituitary primordium as early as e10.5, prior to lineage specification, suggesting a role in progenitor maintenance and early differentiation. In neonates and adults, expression predominates in the cells that produce growth hormone and pro-opiomelanocortin. These findings suggest that PNPLA6 could influence pituitary development at early stages, as well as contribute to the altered function of hormone-secreting cells.Copyright © 2026 Sebastian Vishnopolska et al. Human Mutation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42325734 is a review article
Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) is a rare ciliopathy characterized by early-onset obesity and multisystem endocrine dysfunction. The melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) agonist setmelanotide is approved for hyperphagia-related obesity in BBS, but its endocrine effects remain incompletely understood.In this prospective single-centre observational cohort study, 58 genetically confirmed BBS patients initiating setmelanotide therapy were followed longitudinally. Linear mixed-effects models adjusted for age, sex, and BMI z-score were used to evaluate changes over time.After 6 months, significant reductions in BMI and HbA1c were observed. Treatment was associated with increases in gonadotropins and testosterone and estradiol age-dependently. IGF-1 levels increased independently of weight change, while TSH decreased without corresponding changes in peripheral thyroid hormones. These effects were established within the first 6 months and remained stable thereafter.Setmelanotide exerts pleiotropic effects beyond weight reduction, modulating multiple endocrine axes in BBS. The observed changes highlight MC4R signaling pathway as a key integrator of metabolic and endocrine function and suggest partially weight-independent therapeutic effects.German Federal Ministry of Research and Education and Rhythm Pharmaceuticals.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society.
Secretin was recently found to play a pivotal role in the renal adaptation to acute base excess. Here, secretin increases pendrin-dependent HCO3- secretion from the beta-intercalated cells in the cortical collecting ducts. Whether secretin and its receptor play a role during prolonged base-loading remains unknown.Urine and blood acid-base analyses were carried out in secretin receptor (SCTR) KO and WT mice at baseline and after 1 and up to 8 days of base-loading with NaHCO3-enriched drinking water. Changes in pendrin protein abundance and function were assessed by immunoblotting and isolated tubule perfusion experiments. Plasma secretin levels and renal SCTR expression were assessed after 24 h of acid/base-loading by radioimmunoassay and qPCR, respectively.SCTR KO mice responded with diminished urine alkalization and a lesser reduction of urinary acid excretion when base-loaded for 48 h. Concordantly, SCTR KO mice presented with increased blood base retention compared with WTs. Base-loaded SCTR WT and KO mice showed comparable total pendrin protein abundance. Despite this, pendrin function was markedly lower in SCTR KO mice. Base-loaded mice had higher plasma secretin and renal SCTR levels compared with acid-loaded mice. Higher arterial HCO3- associated with higher renal SCTR mRNA expression.Loss of the SCTR diminishes renal base excretion capacity and exacerbates systemic base accumulation during prolonged base-loading. Further, plasma secretin and renal SCTR mRNA levels are modulated by acid-base intake. These findings further support a central role of secretin and its receptor in the regulation of both acute and prolonged base excess.© 2026 The Author(s). Acta Physiologica published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Scandinavian Physiological Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42508632 is a review article
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are among the most common drug targets, with numerous agonists and antagonists approved for clinical use. More recently, it has been appreciated that drugs can also modulate the action of natural agonists of these receptors, thus providing unique clinical advantages. Here, we describe the identification and characterization of a small molecule positive allosteric modulator (PAM) of secretin action at the class B G protein-coupled secretin receptor. This phenyl(trifluoromethyl)-pyrimidine can occupy the secretin receptor without stimulating its internalization, yet priming it to enhance both the potency and efficacy of the action of natural secretin. This is also shown to exhibit its effects on cells expressing low numbers of these receptors, without enhancing the effects of other structurally related hormones acting at other class B GPCRs. The mechanism responsible for this PAM effect is the slowing of the off-rate of receptor-bound secretin. This compound can serve as a lead to the development of other drugs that enhance the action of natural endogenous secretin and can be utilized to explore the potential therapeutic utility of such compounds.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42496807 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42492231 is a review article
Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) is a rare genetic disease caused by primary ciliary dysfunction leading to retinal degeneration, rod-cone dystrophy, polydactyly, hyperphagia, early-onset obesity, renal dysfunction, hypogonadism, and learning difficulties. Hyperphagia, a pathological insatiable hunger leading to excessive and unusual food intake and persistent, obsessive food-seeking behaviours, is a frequent symptom associated with BBS. This study assessed hyperphagia severity in adults with BBS living in the UK, using a standard structured questionnaire accompanied by an in-depth semi-structured interview.This non-interventional, cross-sectional study included 51 adults with BBS (49.0% males; 56.9% aged 18-34 years; mean [SD] body mass index [) BMI] of 36.5 [8.8] kg/m2 [range 21.8-59.6]). Participants were excluded if they were currently prescribed or had previously taken setmelanotide. Most were of White ethnicity (82.4%), and age at diagnosis ranged from birth to 50 years. Participants completed a 14-item hyperphagia questionnaire comprising multiple-choice and open-ended questions; a subset (n=15) participated in semi-structured interviews. Interview transcripts were coded systematically by a qualitative researcher and reviewed with a BBS clinical expert to assign severity ratings. Semi-structured interviews were designed to address known limitations of self-reporting in this population, including the disability paradox, stigma, and cognitive difficulties.Questionnaire data classified hyperphagia as severe in 5.9% (3/51) of participants, moderate in 45.1% (23/51), and mild in 49.0% (25/51), whereas semi-structured interviews classified hyperphagia as severe in 66.7% (10/15) participants, moderate in 26.7% (4/15), and mild in 6.7% (1/15). Notably, 86.7% (13/15) participants were assigned a higher severity level via interviews than questionnaires, while only two participants had the same classification across both methods. In a sub-analysis of participants with BMI ≥30 kg/m2 (n=39), semi-structured interviews classified hyperphagia as severe in 69.2% (9/13) and moderate in 30.8% (4/13); none were classified as mild hyperphagia.This study reveals a high prevalence of severe hyperphagia in adults with BBS based on semi-structured interviews and highlights substantial underreporting of hyperphagia severity when relying on self-reported questionnaires alone. The findings support incorporating semi-structured interviews as a mixed-method approach to provide a more comprehensive assessment of hyperphagia burden in adults with BBS.Copyright © 2026 Mossman, Flack, Gamertsfelder, Touchot, Low and Beales.
The aims of the study were to evaluate factors influencing the resumption of postpartum ovarian activity and to compare hormone concentrations among mares with physiological/pathological postpartum period and cyclic non-lactating mares. Follicular dynamics were monitored ultrasonographically in 38 postpartum mares from foaling or admission (Tpp/Ta) every other day until the emergence of a dominant follicle (Td), then daily until ovulation (To). Blood samples were collected at Tpp/Ta, Td, and To in postpartum mares and at Td and To in cyclic mares to determine serum estradiol, progesterone, leptin and cortisol concentrations. Ovulation occurred in 34/38 (90%) mares. The χ2 test showed that ovulation was significantly more frequent in mares with physiological postpartum (p = 0.005), in multiparous (p = 0.03) and in lactating mares (p = 0.00011). Age and foaling month were not associated with ovulation. In physiological postpartum mares, estradiol and progesterone concentrations decreased significantly over time (p = 0.002; p = 0.004 respectively), whereas leptin and cortisol remained unchanged. No significant temporal changes were observed for any hormone in mares with pathological postpartum or in cyclic mares. Hormone concentrations did not differ significantly among groups at any time point. Progesterone concentrations at Tpp/Ta were lower in primiparous mares (p = 0.048). Overall, parity, type of postpartum and lactation status influenced the likelihood of postpartum ovulation. Although hormone concentrations were largely comparable among groups, pathological postpartum mares exhibited delayed or absent ovulation, suggesting that postpartum disorders may affect the resumption of ovarian activity.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Following the publication of the above article, the authors have contacted the Editorial Office to explain that they inadvertently assembled Fig. 5D on p. 9, showing Oil Red O staining of Hepa1‑6 cells following transfection with a plasmid, incorrectly. Specifically, the same data had been included to show the results of the 'FFA‑AK‑1' experiment (top row, panel on the right) and the 'FFA‑AK‑10' experiment (bottom row, panel in the middle). Upon investigating this figure, the authors realized that the data shown correctly for the 'FFA‑AK‑10' experiment had been duplicated to show the results for the 'FFA‑AK‑1' experiment. A revised version of Fig. 5, now showing the correct data panel for the 'FFA‑AK‑1' experiment in Fig. 5D, is shown on the next page. The authors confirm that the error associated with this figure did not have any significant impact on either the results or the conclusions reported in this study, and all the authors agree with the publication of this Corrigendum. The authors are grateful to the Editor of International Journal of Molecular Medicine for allowing them the opportunity to publish this Corrigendum; furthermore, they apologize to the readership of the Journal for any inconvenience caused. [International Journal of Molecular Medicine 57: 102, 2026; DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.2026.5773].
Probiotic-fermented dairy products are increasingly recognized for their dual role in nutrient optimization and disease prevention. This study investigated the mechanisms by which Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. lactis Probio-M8 fermented milk enhances digestive efficiency and protects against dextran sulfate sodium-induced colitis in rats. FM8 supplementation promoted weight gain without excessive adipogenesis, elevated leptin levels, and amplified sucrase, lactase, aminopeptidase, and lipase activities, outperforming conventional fermented milk. Metagenomic analysis revealed microbial restructuring with Corynebacterium glutamicum and Bifidobacterium animalis enrichment, and increased short-chain fatty acids.Untargeted metabolomics identified FM8-responsive metabolites, including p-hydroxybenzaldehyde and indole-3-carboxaldehyde, linked to anti-inflammatory pathways. In dextran sulfate sodium-challenged rats, FM8 pre-administration attenuated colitis severity by reducing disease activity index scores, normalizing colon histology, and suppressing interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-17 while elevating IL-10 and IL-22. Mechanistically, FM8 enriched Bifidobacterium animalis and butyrate levels, which inversely correlated with mucosal injury and pro-inflammatory cytokines. These findings demonstrate that FM8 enhances gastrointestinal health through tripartite microbiota-metabolite-immune interactions, highlighting its functional potential for metabolic optimization and colitis prevention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
To characterize urinary peptide signatures in patients with and without overactive bladder (OAB), identify peptide differences by OAB phenotype, and determine the association between baseline peptide profiles and improvement in incontinence following therapy.Peptidomic analysis using LC-MS/MS on urinary samples from 152 participants (100 OAB patients, 52 healthy controls) was performed. Participants completed validated questionnaires at baseline and following treatment. We isolated urinary peptides, analyzed them by mass spectrometry, and identified them using PEAKS Online software. Classical statistical analyses and random forest machine learning classifiers were used to distinguish OAB from controls, and responders versus nonresponders to therapy.The urinary peptidome differed significantly between patients with OAB and controls in overall peptide composition (p=0.001) and number of unique peptides (p=0.001). Peptides from fibrillin-1 and quiescin sulfhydryl oxidase 1 were more abundant in OAB. Random forest classifiers had good discrimination between OAB and controls (AUC 0.76 overall; 0.91 in premenopausal subset). Baseline peptide composition differed between those who experienced improvement in incontinence versus those who did not experience improvement following therapy in the overall cohort (p=0.03) and sacral neuromodulation group (p=0.04).OAB is associated with a unique urinary peptide signature that reflects extracellular matrix remodeling, oxidative stress, and altered cellular metabolism. Baseline peptide profiles differ between those who symptomatically improved versus did not improve following therapy suggesting potential utility of urinary peptides as prognostic biomarkers. These findings support the heterogeneous nature of OAB pathophysiology and may facilitate development of new diagnostic and personalized therapeutic approaches.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Imbalance in energy intake and energy expenditure due to changes in lifestyle and genetic issues results in obesity, which is a serious health problem. Appetite-inducing signals and satiety peptides in the enteroendocrine system have a definite role in the management of obesity. To regulate food intake and digestive signals, gut-derived satiety peptides act in a coordinated network to regulate appetite and metabolic homeostasis. Among these peptides, obestatin has garnered interest for its role in modulating food intake and obesity-associated lipid parameters, as demonstrated in mouse models. This study investigates the interaction among major satiety peptides in the enteroendocrine system on administration of obestatin and its fragment analog, Nt8U, for 30 days. Obestatin and Nt8U, along with a positive control, Orlistat, were administered to high-fat fed mice. Circulating Cholecystokinin-8 (CCK-8) levels increased in obestatin-treated mice but decreased with Nt8U, while Oxyntomodulin (OXM) levels increased by 20% in the obestatin group. In contrast, glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) levels were reduced following obestatin and orlistat treatment. These alterations were accompanied by significant changes in intestinal mRNA expression of the corresponding peptide precursors, suggesting altered gene expression. Long-term indicators of energy stores, including leptin and adiponectin, were reduced across all treatment groups, while insulin levels were significantly decreased in obestatin-treated mice. These hormonal changes were associated with reductions in body weight, plasma total cholesterol, and triglycerides. Collectively, these findings indicate that obestatin and Nt8U administration altered circulating satiety peptide concentrations and the intestinal expression of genes encoding gut-derived satiety hormones. These coordinated changes suggest modulation of metabolic hormone networks associated with energy balance in diet-induced obesity.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Native cows are known for their extraordinary resilience, thanks to a long process of adaptation to specific environmental and management conditions that has shaped their physiological and metabolic traits. Despite the growing interest in these breeds, many biological mechanisms remain largely unexplored. Among these, the peripartum period represents a delicate phase in which the ability to maintain homeostasis is challenged by endocrine and immune adaptations. This preliminary study aimed to investigate the peripartum period in the native Rubia gallega breed by evaluating serum concentrations of cortisol, haptoglobin, leptin, IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α. In this study, 15 multiparous cows were enrolled and monitored from -15 to + 15 days before calving. With the exception of leptin (P > 0.05), all parameters investigated were affected by time to calving (P < 0.05). The cows examined showed the highest cortisol concentrations at calving compared to all other observation time points. Haptoglobin levels were significantly higher at -3 days compared to -15 and -7 days, as well as at calving. IL-1β showed a steady increase throughout the pre-calving period, followed by a decrease at calving and a subsequent increase during the post-calving phase. TNF-α concentrations progressively decreased starting at -7 days, continuing this downward trend until the end of the monitoring period. IL-6 increased from -15 days to calving, then decreased at + 7 days. Overall, the picture presented by these preliminary results indicates a transient and well-regulated inflammatory activation that supports the physiological demands of calving and lactation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Cardiac microvascular endothelial cell (CMEC) injury is a primary driver of microvascular obstruction and the no-reflow phenomenon during myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (I/R). While Programmed Cell Death 4 (PDCD4) is known to exacerbate cardiovascular diseases, its precise role and regulatory mechanisms in CMEC barrier dysfunction and inflammatory adhesion during I/R remain unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that PDCD4 deletion significantly mitigates I/R-induced cardiac dysfunction, reduces infarct size, and preserves microvascular ultrastructure in mice. In vitro experiments using a hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) model revealed that PDCD4 knockdown preserves CMEC viability, suppresses apoptosis, and maintains endothelial barrier integrity by restoring tight junction proteins (ZO-1, Claudin-1, and Occludin). Furthermore, PDCD4 inhibition significantly reduced pathological permeability and attenuated the adhesion of neutrophils and macrophages by downregulating ICAM-1. Mechanistically, PDCD4 directly interacts with Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated Receptor alpha (PPARα) at the protein level and restricts its protective antioxidant function. Co-immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence supported this interaction. Silencing PDCD4 restored PPARα-dependent antioxidant responses, leading to a marked reduction in oxidative stress (decreased ROS and MDA, increased SOD). Crucially, double-knockdown rescue experiments confirmed that the protective effects of PDCD4 depletion against H/R-induced apoptosis, barrier disruption, and inflammatory adhesion were largely abolished upon concurrent PPARα silencing. These findings establish that PDCD4 exacerbates I/R-induced CMEC injury by binding to and inhibiting PPARα-mediated antioxidant homeostasis. Targeting the PDCD4-PPARα interaction axis presents a promising therapeutic strategy to prevent microvascular dysfunction and improve outcomes following acute myocardial infarction.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42561490 is a review article
The opioid epidemic remains a persistent public health challenge in the United States, leaving many people affected by or vulnerable to opioid use disorder (OUD). Although US Food and Drug Administration-approved medications for OUD improve the odds of recovery and reduce mortality, relapse rates remain high and access, adherence, and individual response variabilities limit their overall impact. The ongoing burden of OUD therefore underscores the need to develop additional therapeutics that target complementary biological mechanisms and support long-term recovery. One strategy of interest is to delineate the biological overlap between OUD and other motivated behaviors, particularly the neurobiology underlying appetitive and reward-driven processes. The orexigenic peptide hormone ghrelin, often referred to as the "hunger hormone," regulates energy homeostasis, hedonic feeding, and reward sensitivity by binding to the growth hormone secretagogue receptor 1α (GHS1αR), a receptor expressed in mesolimbic circuits implicated in addiction. In the present study, we used the inverse agonist/antagonist PF5190457 to assess the impact of full GHS1αR blockade on fentanyl-mediated behaviors in preclinical models. We found that PF5190457 significantly reduced fentanyl self-administration and attenuated drug-seeking during cue tests while maintaining a favorable pharmacological and safety profile in risk assessment assays, including measures of withdrawal and respiratory depression. Collectively, these findings demonstrate a functional role for ghrelin-GHS1αR signaling in the reinforcing effects of fentanyl and positions GHS1αR inverse agonism as a promising, mechanistically novel therapeutic strategy for OUD treatment. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: The present work demonstrates that the growth hormone secretagogue receptor 1α (GHS1αR) inverse agonist/antagonist PF5190457 reduces fentanyl self-administration and drug-seeking while maintaining a favorable safety profile in male rats, supporting ghrelin-GHS1αR modulation as a promising therapeutic strategy for opioid use disorder.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Puberty is a key maturational process, highly dependent on energy resources. Ghrelin, a key orexigenic hormone that is increased during conditions of energy insufficiency, has been shown to partially inhibit puberty, acting via the growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHSR). The hepatic peptide, LEAP2, has recently emerged as a potential GHSR antagonist involved in energy homeostasis, but its eventual function in pubertal regulation remains unexplored.To investigate the role of LEAP2 in the control of pubertal maturation using an integral translational approach combining clinical data and preclinical models.Circulating levels of LEAP2 were measured in prepubertal girls with obesity and in a preclinical model of overweight associated with advanced puberty. The impact of central acute and chronic administration of LEAP2 on various pubertal parameters was explored in female rats under distinct metabolic and hormonal conditions. The effects of LEAP2 on hypothalamic Kiss1 expression and Kiss1 neurons calcium activity were studied in rodent models.Circulating LEAP2 levels were elevated in prepubertal girls with obesity and in a preclinical model of overweight associated with advanced puberty. Central injection of LEAP2 increased luteinizing hormone (LH) secretion in a dose-dependent manner in peripubertal female rats, either fed ad libitum or after 24-hour fasting, a condition known to elevate circulating ghrelin. Chronic central administration of LEAP2 in prepubertal female rats significantly advanced puberty onset; a phenomenon also observed in immature females subjected to 20% food restriction. The stimulatory effect of central LEAP2 on LH secretion was associated with increased hypothalamic Kiss1 expression. Analyses in brain slices from Kiss1-GCaMP mice showed that LEAP2 could attenuate ghrelin effects on calcium activity in RP3V and ARC Kiss1 neurons, which express Ghsr, supporting a modulatory effect at the level of the Kiss1 circuitry which drives GnRH release.Our data provide the first evidence of the role of LEAP2 in the metabolic control of pubertal maturation, acting potentially via Kiss1 neurons.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The hormone ghrelin has had limited attention in Equidae, despite connections with appetite and metabolic health in other species. Ghrelin influences hunger and food intake, energy expenditure and storage, glucose metabolism, and thermoregulation, through its receptor-mediated effects on tissues and via interaction with other hormones. There are two circulating forms, acylated and des-acylated ghrelin, considered to have distinct effects on metabolism in other species. The aims of this study were to confirm the presence of ghrelin receptors in equine tissues, to validate an assay for the measurement of total ghrelin (acylated and des-acylated forms) in horses, and to evaluate associations between ghrelin concentrations and prandial state, signalment and morphometry. Gene expression studies were conducted to identify ghrelin receptor isoforms 1a and 1b. A validation of a commercial kit for total ghrelin was undertaken. Finally, associations between active ghrelin concentrations and prandial state, signalment and morphometric traits were determined in a cohort of 35 horses and ponies with no evidence of metabolic disease. Expression of receptor type 1a was confirmed in equine pituitary gland and adrenal medulla, and detected in 6 other peripheral tissues. PCR product consistent with receptor type 1b was expressed in pituitary, adrenal medulla, adrenal cortex and ileum, but low yields prevented confirmation with sequencing. Parallelism and recovery on addition steps of the validation resulted in values outside the acceptable ranges, so total ghrelin concentration could not be measured. Post-prandial active ghrelin concentration was reduced (p = 0.001) by 19% and positively associated with age, but was not associated with bodyweight, height, or body condition. Pre-prandial active ghrelin concentrations were higher (p = 0.0003) in Welsh ponies compared to other horse and pony breeds. Receptor expression in disparate tissues suggests multiple roles for ghrelin in horses. Association of active ghrelin with age and breed warrants further investigation and could indicate physiological diversity in metabolic pathways in this species.© 2026. The Author(s).
Ghrelin is the endogenous agonist of the growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHSR), which is a potential novel pharmacotherapeutic target for alcohol use disorder (AUD). PF-5190457 is a GHSR inverse agonist and the first GHSR inhibitor to advance to human trials. Our lab conducted two placebo-controlled human laboratory studies to investigate the effects of PF-5190457 (100 mg/day) on alcohol craving in an alcohol cue-exposure paradigm. Study 1 found reduced craving under drug versus placebo, whereas Study 2 did not replicate these findings, likely due to a floor effect and reflective of the differences in AUD populations (Study 1: active drinkers; Study 2: abstinent, inpatient).The present work is a secondary analysis combining these datasets and using subgroups based on alcohol cue-reactivity ("cue-reactors," CR+ vs. "nonreactors," CR-) or the Penn Alcohol Craving Scale ("PACS high cravers" vs. "PACS low cravers") as an additional independent variable to reanalyze the effects of PF-5190457 on alcohol craving (Alcohol Urge Questionnaire [AUQ]) following a "relaxation" trial (no cues) and an "alcohol cue" trial (mock bar-lab and preferred alcohol-containing drink). Cue-reactivity was calculated as the difference in AUQ between trials (AUQAlc-AUQRel) and analyzed by subgroups as a separate outcome.PF-5190457 reduced AUQ scores relative to placebo following the alcohol cue trial in the CR+ subgroup, but not the CR- subgroup. PF-5190457 also reduced AUQ compared to placebo following both the relaxation and alcohol cue trial in the PACS high craver subgroup, but not in the PACS low craver subgroup. Cue-reactivity was not affected by PF-5190457 in any subgroup analysis.These results are preliminary and based on secondary analyses, but suggest that PF-5190457 could help reduce general, self-reported craving for alcohol in high-craving individuals.© 2026 Research Society on Alcohol.
To investigate the efficacy and mechanistic foundations of the Traditional Chinese Medicine Yueju pill (YJP, ) for treating the complex comorbidity of heart failure and depression.C57BL/6 male mice were used to establish a robust congestive heart failure (CHF) model with concomitant depressive manifestations. Echocardiographic assessments were conducted to evaluate cardiac structure and function in the mice. Depression-related behavioral tests and the detection of monoamine neurotransmitters were performed to assess the antidepressant-like effectiveness of YJP. Western blot analysis was conducted to measure the expression levels of key components in the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NRF2)/heme oxygenase 1 (HO1) antioxidant pathway, NRF2/brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) pathway, and ghrelin/growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHS-R)1a pathway in the myocardium and hippocampus. To explore the mechanistic role of the ghrelin/GHS-R1a pathway, the ghrelin receptor antagonist D-Lys3-growth hormone-releasing peptide-6 was introduced to enable the iterative evaluation of the aforementioned parameters.YJP improved cardiac dysfunction and myocardial fibrosis and markedly ameliorated depressive behaviors. It also improved neuron damage, boosted the growth of dendritic spines to enhance synaptic plasticity, and alleviated monoamine neurotransmitter imbalances. Additionally, the NRF2/BDNF, ghrelin/GHS-R1a, and NRF2/HO1 antioxidant pathways were promoted by YJP, with the increased expression of key components of the three pathways. The addition of a GHS-R1a antagonist impaired the antidepressant and cardioprotective effects of YJP.YJP effectively improved cardiac dysfunction and depressive-like behaviors in mice by activating NRF2 viamediation of the ghrelin/GHS-R1a signaling axis within both the myocardial and hippocampal domains.
Preeclampsia (PE) is a severe pregnancy-specific hypertensive disorder characterized by immune microenvironment dysregulation at the maternal-fetal interface, with decidual macrophage phenotypic imbalance being a key pathological feature. The Ghrelin/growth hormone secretagogue receptor-1a (GHSR-1a) axis exerts immunomodulatory and anti-inflammatory effects, but its role in regulating decidual macrophage infiltration and phenotypic marker expression in PE remains unclear. In this study, we first detected the expression of the Ghrelin/GHSR-1a axis in decidual tissues from 10 healthy pregnant women and 12 PE patients via immunohistochemistry (IHC). We then established a lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced PE-like rat model to investigate the axis's functional role and underlying mechanisms. Intriguingly, clinical analysis revealed a severity-dependent compensatory escalation of the Ghrelin/GHSR-1a axis in PE decidual tissues, potentially representing an endogenous antagonistic response to pregnancy-associated pathological stress. In the animal model, exogenous Ghrelin supplementation reversed LPS-induced PE-like phenotypes, including hypertension, proteinuria, fetal growth restriction (FGR), and placental dysfunction, and alleviated pathological damage to the maternal liver, kidney, and placenta. Mechanistically, Ghrelin modulated decidual macrophage phenotypic marker expression by downregulating the M1 marker CD86 and upregulating the M2 marker CD163 and promoted trophoblast invasion and spiral artery remodeling by restoring laminin, α-cytokeratin 7 (α-CK7), and α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) expression in placental tissue. All protective effects of Ghrelin were abrogated by co-administration of D-lys-3-GHRP-6, a specific GHSR-1a antagonist, confirming the dependence on the Ghrelin/GHSR-1a axis. Collectively, our findings suggest that the Ghrelin/GHSR-1a axis is compensatorily upregulated in PE and may exert a protective role by regulating decidual macrophage phenotypic marker expression and improving placental function, providing preliminary evidence that this axis merits further investigation as a potential research target for PE.
Cinnamon oil exhibits therapeutic potential against constipation-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-C). This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy and mechanisms of its main components-cinnamaldehyde (CAL), cinnamyl alcohol (COL), and trans-cinnamic acid (TCA)-in IBS-C. This study established an IBS-C mouse model using loperamide hydrochloride and restraint stress, and evaluated indicators such as body weight, the number of fecal pellets, fecal water content, visceral hypersensitivity, and small intestinal propulsion rate. The analysis was performed via HE staining, ELISA, Western blot, qRT-PCR, and 16S rRNA sequencing. All three components ameliorated low-grade immune cell infiltration in colonic tissue and reduced serum levels of IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-α. They also increased motilin (MTL) and acetylcholine (Ach) levels; all except trans-cinnamic acid low-dose (TCA-L) increased gastrin (Gas) levels, and all except TCA-L and trans-cinnamic acid high-dose (TCA-H) increased 5-HT levels. Cinnamaldehyde high-dose (CAL-H), cinnamyl alcohol high-dose (COL-H), and TCA-H upregulated the expression of tryptophan hydroxylase 1 (TPH1), serotonin transporter (SERT), and 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 4 (5-HT4R) and partially modulated gut microbiota composition. CAL showed favorable effects under the present experimental conditions. The three components alleviated IBS-C symptoms partially through modulating the 5-HT signaling pathway and gut microbiota, with CAL showing the most pronounced effects under the present experimental conditions.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42277455 is a review article
Risk stratification after transcatheter tricuspid edge-to-edge repair (T-TEER) remains challenging, particularly in patients with advanced right-sided heart failure and systemic disease burden. Biomarkers reflecting inflammation, stress response and multiorgan dysfunction may provide additional prognostic information in this setting.This prospective single-centre cohort study included 84 consecutive patients undergoing T-TEER for severe tricuspid regurgitation using the TriClip or PASCAL system. Baseline concentrations of growth differentiation factor-15 (GDF-15), soluble urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (suPAR), and NT-proBNP were measured prior to intervention. The primary endpoint was all-cause mortality at 12 months. Secondary endpoints included cardiovascular rehospitalisation and a combined cardiovascular endpoint. Prognostic performance was assessed using receiver operating characteristic and tertile-based Kaplan-Meier analyses. Owing to the limited number of events, all analyses were considered exploratory.During 12-month follow-up, all-cause mortality occurred in 10 patients (11.9%), while cardiovascular rehospitalisation was observed in 29 patients (34.5%). GDF-15 demonstrated good discriminative performance for all-cause mortality (AUC 0.823, 95% CI 0.714-0.932, p = 0.001), whereas suPAR showed moderate prognostic discrimination (AUC 0.742, 95% CI 0.605-0.878, p = 0.013). In contrast, NT-proBNP showed no significant discrimination for all-cause mortality (AUC 0.535, 95% CI 0.362-0.709, p = 0.720). Higher tertiles of both GDF-15 and suPAR were associated with reduced overall and rehospitalisation-free survival.Baseline GDF-15 and suPAR were associated with adverse outcomes after T-TEER and demonstrated greater prognostic discrimination than NT-proBNP in this exploratory cohort. These exploratory findings support further investigation of systemic stress and inflammation biomarkers for risk stratification in patients with severe tricuspid regurgitation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Sarcopenia is an age-related skeletal muscle disorder characterized by progressive decline in muscle mass, strength, and physical performance, leading to frailty, disability, falls, and increased mortality. Although its pathogenesis is multifactorial, growing evidence indicates that vitamin B complex deficiency contributes to muscle deterioration through interconnected metabolic and signaling pathways. This narrative review summarizes current evidence regarding the roles of B vitamins in skeletal muscle biology and their potential contribution to sarcopenia. Vitamin B deficiency impairs mitochondrial energy metabolism by reducing cofactor availability and adenosine triphosphate production, thereby increasing oxidative stress and chronic inflammation. These disturbances may trigger endoplasmic reticulum stress and the integrated stress response, leading to activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4)-dependent induction of growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15) and fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) expression. Collectively, these changes disrupt protein homeostasis, suppress anabolic signaling, impair neuromuscular function, and alter myokine secretion by reducing anabolic mediators while increasing catabolic and inflammatory myokines, thereby accelerating muscle loss and functional decline. Current evidence is the strongest for vitamins B6, B9, and B12, whereas mechanistic and clinical data for B2, B3, B5, and B7 remain limited. Overall, vitamin B deficiency can be viewed as a modifiable biological contributor to sarcopenia. Well-designed prospective studies and randomized clinical trials are required to clarify causality, validate biomarkers, and determine whether targeted vitamin B supplementation can enhance exercise- and nutrition-based strategies for preserving muscle health in older adults.
Phosphodiesterase 2A (PDE2A) plays a vital role in regulating cyclic nucleotide signaling by hydrolyzing cAMP and cGMP in the central nervous system (CNS). This enzymatic activity is essential for neuronal function, and PDE2A has emerged as a molecular target for neuroimaging in neuropsychiatric disorders and neurodegenerative diseases. In this study, we evaluated the novel 11C-labeled positron emission tomography (PET) radioligand [11C]1 derived from a pyrazolopyrimidine-based PDE2A inhibitor. The radiosynthesis of [11C]1 was accomplished via [11C]-methyl iodide-mediated methylation of precursor 9 under mild conditions, yielding [11C]1 with high purity (99%) and high molar activity (154 ± 66 GBq/μmol). In vitro autoradiography demonstrated high radiotracer accumulation in regions with abundant PDE2A expression, including the striatum and substantia nigra. However, dynamic PET imaging in rats showed a relatively uniform distribution throughout the brain and no significant blocking effects. Further optimization in medicinal chemistry is necessary to improve the in vivo performance of the pyrazolopyrimidine-based PDE2A tracer scaffold.© 2025 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41009961 is a review article
Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a severe clinical condition often accompanied by multiple complications, with neuropathic pain (NP) being one of the most persistent and difficult conditions to treat. The underlying mechanisms of NP remain unclear, and effective clinical treatments are lacking. Some studies suggest that phosphodiesterase 2A (PDE2A) may contribute to the development of NP. This study aims to investigate the role of PDE2A inhibitor Bay 60-7550 in alleviating NP in a rat model of SCI. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly allocated into four groups: sham, SCI, SCI + Bay 60-7550, and SCI + vehicle. Mechanical thresholds were assessed using the von Frey test from 1 day prior to surgery through postoperative day 21. PDE2A expression in the spinal cord was quantified via qRT-PCR, Western blotting, and immunohistochemistry. Microglial polarization (M1/M2) was analyzed using flow cytometry and qRT-PCR. Downstream biomarkers, including IL-6, IL-1β, IL-10, TGF-β, CCL2, and CCL3, were also quantified via qRT-PCR. Additionally, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was performed to determine the levels of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP). Intrathecal administration of the PDE2A inhibitor Bay 60-7550 significantly alleviated mechanical allodynia in rats following SCI. PDE2A expression was notably elevated in the spinal dorsal horn post-SCI, an effect that was suppressed by Bay 60-7550 treatment. In addition, Bay 60-7550 administration reduced the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, IL-1β), increased anti-inflammatory cytokines (IL-10, TGF-β), and decreased mRNA levels of CCL2 and CCL3 in the spinal cord. Consistently, treatment with Bay 60-7550 elevated the levels of cGMP and cAMP in the spinal cord and shifted microglial polarization by increasing the proportion of M2-type cells while reducing M1-type cells in SCI rats. Inhibiting PDE2A overexpression may mitigate the progression of NP in rats following SCI by modulating microglial polarization. Therefore, PDE2A represents a promising therapeutic target for the management of neuropathic pain after SCI.
The melanocortin system centrally regulates energy homeostasis, with key components such as melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) and adenylyl cyclase 3 (ADCY3) in neuronal primary cilia. Mutations in MC4R and ADCY3 as well as ciliary dysfunction lead to obesity, but how melanocortin signaling works in cilia remains unclear. Using mouse random germline mutagenesis, we identified two missense mutations in G protein-coupled receptor 45 (Gpr45) that lead to obesity through hyperphagia. GPR45 was expressed in paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVH), where it localized to cilia and recruited Gαs to increase ciliary cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) via ADCY3. GPR45 colocalized with MC4R in PVH cilia and promoted ciliary MC4R activation. Loss of GPR45 in the PVH or MC4R+ neurons caused obesity. These findings establish GPR45 as a key regulator of the ciliary melanocortin system, bridging MC4R and ADCY3.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are the most druggable targets in biology due to their cell-type specificity, ligand binding, and cell surface accessibility. Underscoring this, agonists for GPCRs have recently revolutionized the treatment of diabetes and obesity. The rampant success of these compounds has invigorated interest in identifying additional GPCRs that modulate appetite and body weight homeostasis. One such potential therapeutic target is G-protein couped receptor 45 (Gpr45), an orphan GPCR expressed both centrally and peripherally. We aimed to explore the role of Gpr45 as well as neurons expressing Gpr45 in energy balance.Three novel transgenic mouse models were engineered to investigate the functional contribution of Gpr45 to body weight and appetite regulation: 1) a global Gpr45 knockout, 2) a conditional floxed Gpr45 allele, and 3) a Gpr45-CreERT2 knock-in. Metabolic profiling was performed in global Gpr45 knockout animals including body weight, food intake, body mass, energy expenditure, and body temperature measurements. Animals harboring a conditional floxed Gpr45 allele were bred to mice expressing Cre-recombinase in excitatory neurons labeled via Vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (Vglut2), inhibitory cells expressing Vesicular GABA transporter (Vgat), or neurons marked by the transcription factor Single-minded 1 (Sim1) and monitored for body weight and food consumption. Additionally, floxed Gpr45 mice were bilaterally injected with AAV-Cre targeting the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVH) and body weight and food intake were evaluated. The Gpr45-CreERT2 knock-in model was used to express chronic and acute actuators to the PVH to assess the role of PVHGpr45 neurons in energy homeostasis.Global Gpr45 disruption caused marked weight gain, increased food intake and fat mass, but no detectable alterations in core temperature or energy output. Selective deletion of Gpr45 from Sim1+ or excitatory Vglut2+ but not inhibitory Vgat+, neurons produced obesity and hyperphagia. Targeted deletion of Gpr45 from the PVH phenocopies these metabolic changes suggesting a major site of action of Gpr45 signaling is glutamatergic neurons residing in the PVH. Tetanus toxin light chain (TeNT) was used to permanently silence PVHGpr45 neuronal activity in Gpr45-CreER mice leading to rapid weight accumulation and escalated food intake. These experiments highlight the critical role of both Gpr45 signaling and neural network activity in the regulation of body weight and appetite. A mutated version of the bacterial sodium channel, NaChBac, was used to constitutively activate PVHGpr45 neuronal activity in Gpr45-CreER mice with limited to no effect on body weight and food consumption, implicating redundant circuitry acting in concert to bias weight loss protection. Acute chemogenetic stimulation of PVHGpr45 neurons durably suppressed food intake regardless of caloric need state or food palatability demonstrating the capacity of these cells to curb appetite.Gpr45 is a putative therapeutic candidate that could be targeted to combat obesity and overeating.Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Phosphodiesterase-2A (PDE2A) is a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of ganglion dysfunction-related diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia, cognitive impairment, anxiety, and depression. However, most current PDE2A inhibitors have moderate selectivity compared to other PDEs. In this study, we described the discovery of 6 novel PDE2A inhibitors by bioassays, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulations. Six molecules out of 2592 compounds from the L6000-Natural Compound Library inhibited PDE2A with affinity ranging from 4.03 to 39.84 μM. Selective experiments were carried out on PDE4D, PDE5A, PDE9A, and PDE10A, among which 5-5H and 16-2H exhibited good dual inhibition against both PDE2A and PDE4D. Their IC50 values for PDE2A were 4.03 and 9.08 μM, respectively, and for PDE4D they were 3.89 and 10.96 μM, respectively. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation were used to explore the binding modes of active compounds with PDE2A. It is shown that in addition to the common interactions with Gln859 and Phe862 of PDE2A, 6 molecules formed extra hydrogen bonds with Ile826 and Leu809. These molecules may serve as starting points for further optimization of selective PDE2A inhibitors.
Plant polysaccharides possess significant anticonvulsant potential. This study investigated the neuroprotective effects of polysaccharide-rich birch sap (PRBS), previously characterized as primarily low-molecular-weight polysaccharides (MW·1.29 kDa), in a rat model of kainic acid (KA)-induced acute seizures.Rats received oral PRBS (6/10 mL/kg) for 7 days before KA-induced (15 mg/kg, i.p.) seizures. Seizure severity was evaluated using behavioral, electroencephalographic (EEG), and cerebral blood flow (CBF) monitoring. Brain tissues were analyzed via histology, Western blotting, and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) for neuronal damage, neuroinflammation, blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity, and glutamate metabolism.Results demonstrated that the higher dose (10 mL/kg) exerted potent anticonvulsant effects, significantly reducing tonic convulsion scores and EEG ictal spikes. Furthermore, the treatment mitigated KA-induced CBF deficits and prevented neuronal damage in the cortex and hippocampus. Mechanistically, PRBS suppressed glial activation, indicated by a decrease in GFAP+ and OX42+ cells and reduced expression of markers associated with a pro-inflammatory state (C3 and CD86). It also inhibited neuroinflammatory signaling by downregulating TLR4 and p-IkB levels while suppressing the overall activation of NF-kB p65, thereby decreasing the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1b, IL-6, and TNF-a). Additionally, the treatment attenuated BBB disruption by reducing albumin extravasation and upregulating tight junction proteins (claudin-5 and occludin). Finally, it restored glutamate homeostasis by upregulating the astrocytic transporter GLT-1 and glutamine synthetase, while downregulating glutamine transporters (SNAT1/3), glutaminase, and the vesicular glutamate transporter VGLUT1.PRBS exhibits potent antiseizure and neuroprotective properties that are closely associated with the modulation of TLR4/NF-kB-mediated inflammation, the preservation of BBB integrity, and the regulation of glutamate homeostasis, highlighting its potential as a natural therapeutic agent for seizures.Copyright © 2026 Lu, Wu, Chiu, Lee, Pan, Lin and Wang.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is essential for maintaining central nervous system homeostasis, and its disruption is associated with numerous neurological disorders. Ginsenoside Rh3 (GRh3), a bioactive saponin with recognized anticancer properties, has previously been shown to exert cytotoxic effects on neural cells, raising concerns regarding its neurovascular safety. In this study, we evaluated the effects of GRh3 in an in vitro co-culture transwell BBB model comprising mouse-derived bEnd.3 endothelial cells, pericytes, and C8-D1A astrocytic cells. Exposure to GRh3 (0.4-1.6 μM) for 24 h reduced transendothelial electrical resistance (TEER), increased extracellular lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release, decreased bEnd.3 cell viability, and reduced the expression of the tight junction (TJ) proteins ZO-1, Claudin-5, and Occludin. These alterations were accompanied by increased MMP2 and MMP9 levels and decreased TIMP1 expression. Molecular docking suggested potential interactions between GRh3 and MMP2/9. Moreover, siRNA-mediated knockdown of MMP2 or MMP9 partially restored TEER, reduced GRh3-associated LDH release, and attenuated the loss of TJ proteins. Collectively, these findings indicate that GRh3 impairs barrier-associated properties, at least in part through an MMP2/9-mediated mechanism, raising concerns regarding its neurovascular safety. However, because the barrier-associated changes occurred concurrently with detectable cytotoxicity, a direct barrier-specific effect cannot be distinguished from secondary consequences of cellular injury or cell loss. Further studies using minimally cytotoxic exposure conditions and in vivo models are required to establish the neurovascular relevance of these findings.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Intestinal barriers limiting gut-to-liver translocation of bacteria/l products are disrupted in cirrhosis. Cirrhosis is characterised by sustained β-adrenergic overactivity, which may contribute to barrier dysfunction but, its impact on the gut-liver-axis remains unclear. We investigated whether β-adrenergic signalling drives barrier disruption in experimental cirrhosis being amenable for treatment by non-selective beta blockers such as propranolol.Cirrhosis was induced in rats (CCl4, BDL) and mice (BDL), followed by propranolol or vehicle treatment. Chronic β-adrenergic stimulation was modelled by isoproterenol in mice, and VE-cadherin gain-of-function mice were used for mechanistic experiments. Barrier integrity and bacterial translocation were assessed by gut-to-liver FITC-dextran translocation, FITC-albumin endomicroscopy, hepatic 16S rDNA, faecal albumin, junctional immunofluorescence. Ileal transcriptomics, microbiota profiling, primary intestinal endothelial cells and human ileal organoids were used.Propranolol reduced hepatic 16S rDNA load and gut-to-liver translocation of FITC-dextran but not viable bacteria in both cirrhosis models. It restored muco-epithelial integrity, increasing mucus thickness, goblet cell number and epithelial tight junction proteins. Propranolol improved gut-vascular barrier dysfunction, reducing PV1 expression and normalising pathological FITC-albumin extravasation in BDL mice, with model-dependent modulation of VE-cadherin and claudin-5. Without liver injury, isoproterenol recapitulated intestinal barrier disruption and gut-to-liver translocation in absence of microbiota changes but being attenuated by propranolol. VE-cadherin GOF mice were protected from β-adrenergic-induced barrier disruption and showed reduced gut-to-liver translocation after BDL. Ileal transcriptomic alterations were partially reversed in pathways related to barrier function, inflammation and adrenergic signalling.Sustained β-adrenergic hyperstimulation disrupts the multi-layer intestinal barrier, promoting pathological bacterial translocation in cirrhosis. Propranolol restores barrier integrity through mechanisms involving endothelial VE-cadherin stabilisation, at least partly independent of microbiota changes and haemodynamic effects.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The present study evaluated the protective effects of Oralis SB® (Osb), a commercial multi-strain probiotic formulation, in a ligature-induced experimental periodontitis (EPD) Sprague-Dawley rat model. Male rats were subjected to ligature placement and orally administered Osb (1.25 × 108, 1.25 × 109, and 6.25 × 109 CFU/head) or received single-strain treatments with each of the four constituent strains (1.25 × 109 CFU/head) for 10 days. Periodontal changes were assessed by microbiological, biochemical, histological, and bone-related analyses. Ligature placement markedly increased anaerobic bacterial counts, neutrophil-associated myeloperoxidase activity, and inflammatory mediator production in gingival tissues, accompanied by elevated gingival IgA levels and impaired expression of epithelial tight junction-related genes, including claudin-1, claudin-5, occludin, and zonula occludens-1. Osb administration significantly attenuated bacterial overgrowth, restored gingival IgA contents, and suppressed the production of inflammatory mediators. Osb also reduced malondialdehyde level and inducible nitric oxide synthase activity, as markers of oxidative and nitrosative stress, and decreased metalloproteinase-8 expression in gingival tissue. In addition, Osb effectively prevented alveolar bone deterioration by improving focal bone mineral density, reducing osteoclast numbers, and restoring the receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB/osteoprotegerin balance. Histological evaluation further confirmed that Osb alleviated gingival inflammation and alveolar bone loss. Notably, the lowest dose of Osb (1.25 × 108 CFU/head) consistently produced significantly greater protective effects than each of the four individual component strains across all measured parameters. Osb exerted protective effects against EPD by modulating anaerobic microbial overgrowth, inflammatory and oxidative responses, epithelial barrier integrity, and alveolar bone resorption. These findings support the therapeutic potential of Osb in periodontitis.
Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA), a persistent member of the Per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS), is widely detected in the environment and human populations and has recently been increasingly associated with neurotoxicity; however, its underlying molecular mechanisms, particularly those involving mitochondrial quality control, remain poorly defined. This study aimed to elucidate the mechanistic basis of PFOA-induced neurotoxicity, focusing on mitochondrial dysfunction, dynamics, and mitophagy, and to determine the downstream effects on neuronal integrity and cognitive function using both in-vitro and in-vivo approaches. In N2a cells, PFOA exposure induced significant oxidative stress, characterized by elevated intracellular and mitochondrial ROS levels and loss of mitochondrial membrane potential (Δψm). These alterations were accompanied by dysregulation of mitochondrial dynamics, evidenced by suppression of fusion proteins (MFN1, MFN2, OPA1) and enhanced activation of fission regulators (DRP1, FIS1). Concurrently, mitophagy was impaired, as indicated by dysregulation of PINK1-Parkin and LC3-p62 signaling, suggesting defective mitochondrial clearance. In-vivo, chronic PFOA exposure disrupted blood-brain barrier integrity, as reflected by increased MMP-9 and reduced tight junction proteins (ZO-1, occludin, claudin-5), and was associated with enhanced neuronal apoptosis, histopathological damage, and cognitive deficits. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that PFOA induces neurotoxicity through mitochondrial dysfunction-driven impairment of mitochondrial dynamics and quality control, leading to neuronal degeneration and neurobehavioral dysfunction.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) affects more than 9% of the population, and currently FDA-approved treatments show limited efficacy. There is therefore an urgent need to better understand the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms in order to identify new therapeutic strategies. Recent evidence implicates a role of angiotensin II (Ang II) signaling in PTSD symptomatology, yet the mechanisms through which Ang II contributes to trauma-related pathology remain unclear. We hypothesized that endothelial angiotensin type 1a receptors (AT1aR) is a key player in psychological trauma-induced changes in blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity, systemic and central inflammation, as well as PTSD-like symptoms. To test this hypothesis, we used the predator trauma model of PTSD in male and female wild-type (WT) mice and mice with an endothelial-specific depletion of AT1aR (eAT1aR-/-). One week later, anxiety-like and avoidance behaviors were assessed, and brain tissues were collected to evaluate BBB integrity and neuroinflammation. Both male and female eAT1aR-/- mice exhibited reduced generalized anxiety-like behavior, while avoidance behavior was selectively attenuated in males, independently of trauma exposure. Trauma-induced changes in cortical expression of the tight junction protein zonula occludens-1 were not affected by endothelial AT1aR deletion, whereas claudin-5 expression in the prefrontal cortex was increased in predator-exposed eAT1aR-/- females. Together, these findings provide the first evidence that endothelial Ang II-AT1aR signaling modulate basal levels of anxiety-like and avoidance behaviors independently of trauma exposure, while also regulating trauma-induced changes in BBB integrity in a sex-dependent manner. These results suggest that endothelial AT1aR signaling does not underlie the trauma-induced behavioral and immune phenotypes, but nonetheless highlight AT1Rs as a novel target for anxiolytic therapeutics.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB), primarily formed by brain microvascular endothelial cells (BMECs), restricts substance entry into the brain. BBB inflammation, involving barrier dysfunction and immune cell recruitment, contributes to neurological diseases and represents a therapeutic target. In this study, we characterized human immortalized cell-based multicellular spheroidal BBB (hiMCS-BBB) models as a tool for evaluating effects of BBB inflammation-targeted drugs. First, we examined the responses of the hiMCS-BBB models to the pro-inflammatory cytokine (TNF-α and IFN-γ) exposure. The cytokine treatment reduced claudin-5 protein expression levels at the BBB, accompanied by a 1.4 ± 0.1-fold increase in lucifer yellow permeability. Consistently, E-selectin protein expression was upregulated, accompanied by a 22.1-fold increase in THP-1 cell adhesion to the BBB. Then, we tested whether natalizumab (a monoclonal antibody used for multiple sclerosis treatment) and JPH203 (an inhibitor of L-type amino acid transporter 1) could modulate the immune cell adhesion. Both agents remarkably suppressed the cytokine-induced THP-1 cell adhesion to 0.2-fold relative to the respective controls. To summarize, our results demonstrate that the hiMCS-BBB models exhibit key features of BBB inflammation in response to inflammation stimuli and recapitulate clinically relevant responses to anti-inflammatory drugs, highlighting their potential to accelerate BBB-targeting drug development.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Methylphenidate (MPH) is a widely used psychostimulant for treating attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Emerging epidemiological findings suggest that MPH treatment increases the risk of cardiovascular events. However, as causality could not be inferred, further investigation of the potential impact of MPH on human vascular endothelial function is warranted. We investigated the effects of MPH on human brain microvascular endothelial cells (HBEC) and human aortic endothelial cells (HAEC) across a range of concentrations, including those corresponding to therapeutic plasma levels, at 24 and 48 h. Gene expression profiling of twenty-nine endothelial function-related genes was performed. Protein expression was assessed by ELISA, Western blotting, immunofluorescence and FACS, and barrier function was evaluated using FITC-dextran permeability and electric cell-substrate impedance sensing assays. Key endothelial markers with differential levels were analysed also in plasma from ADHD children (n = 87) and adults (n = 102), and matched controls (n = 4 and n = 44, respectively). Exposure to MPH altered levels of several endothelial function-related genes. Across all concentrations tested, MPH increased the secretion of von Willebrand factor (vWF) and tissue plasminogen activator, whereas supratherapeutic concentrations 50 µM and/or 100 µM MPH decreased Claudin-5 expression and impaired endothelial barrier integrity. In clinical plasma samples, children receiving MPH showed higher vWF levels compared with medication-naïve children, but this was not observed in adult samples. Our findings suggest that acute exposure to therapeutic MPH concentration was associated with endothelial activation, and that supratherapeutic concentrations (50 µM and/or 100 µM) may further compromise barrier integrity. These experimental outcomes may propose potential effects on vascular health associated with MPH use. Further studies are needed to confirm these findings.© 2026. The Author(s).
Secondary lymphedema is a debilitating complication following oncologic surgery, characterized by progressive tissue fibrosis and chronic inflammation. Although transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) has been established as a central mediator of fibrotic remodeling, the broader interplay between pro-inflammatory cytokines and downstream fibrotic signaling cascades in post-surgical lymphedematous tissue remains poorly understood.Skin and subcutaneous tissue biopsies were prospectively collected from 126 patients with unilateral breast cancer-related lymphedema and 58 matched controls across three tertiary centers between January 2024 and December 2025. Tissue specimens were analyzed using immunohistochemistry, quantitative real-time PCR, multiplex cytokine profiling, and Western blotting. Correlations between cytokine expression, fibrotic markers, and clinical severity were evaluated.Lymphedematous tissues exhibited significantly elevated expression of TGF-β1, interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-13 (IL-13), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) compared with controls (all P < 0.01). Concurrent activation of Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling pathways was observed, with both correlating positively with disease severity. Multivariate regression identified TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 as independent predictors of fibrotic burden, whereas TNF-α lost significance after adjustment for confounders. Lymphatic vessel density was inversely associated with cytokine levels and fibrotic severity.Secondary upper extremity lymphedema following breast cancer surgery is driven by a coordinated inflammatory and fibrotic axis involving TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 through convergent Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling. These findings support the development of multi-pathway therapeutic strategies beyond single-agent anti-fibrotic approaches for post-surgical lymphedema.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Systemic sclerosis is an autoimmune fibrotic skin disease characterised by immune activation and fibrosis. Fibroblasts are at the core of this fibrotic process, differentiating into effector myofibroblasts; however, the drivers of this process remain obscure. Recently, metabolic changes in cells in fibrotic diseases have been uncovered, with changes in the TCA cycle and glycolysis being observed.The objective of this work was to elucidate the role of the glycolytic enzyme pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) in systemic sclerosis.Serum from early diffuse systemic sclerosis (SSc) patients and healthy controls (HC) was collected for PKM2 analysis by ELISA. Fibroblasts were isolated from HC and SSc biopsies and treated with transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) to assess PKM2 expression. PKM2 was pharmacologically modulated, and collagen and Extracellular Matrix (ECM) regulators were evaluated. Metabolic activity was assessed using Seahorse assays, and lactate transport was chemically inhibited. Chromatin immunoprecipitation was performed using a histone lactylation-specific or isotype antibody, and lactate or acetate supplementation experiments were conducted.We found significantly elevated circulating and fibroblast PKM2 in SSc patients. Fibroblast PKM2 could be induced in healthy fibroblasts by TGF-β1 exposure. Furthermore, PKM2 drives a metabolic shift to glycolysis that can be blocked by forced tetramerisation of PKM2 from its dimeric form; this resulted in reduced ECM and matrix regulators. Mechanistically, PKM2-mediated glycolysis results in elevated lactate, which drives collagen via epigenetic regulation by histone H3K18 lactylation. Blockade of PKM2 dimerisation reduced Histone H3 at Lysine 18 (H3K18) lactylation at the collagen promoter, which could be restored with lactate but not acetate. We further demonstrated that lactate-induced collagen is partially mediated by HIF-1α.PKM2 drives activation of fibroblasts in SSc via metabolic changes such as glycolysis. Taking advantage of PKM2 tetramerisation or blockade of lactate generation could be a possible therapeutic option in a disease with few treatment options.Copyright © 2026 Steadman and O’Reilly.
Skeletal muscle loss is associated with cognitive decline, but whether neuroimaging-derived muscle characteristics predict incident dementia remains unclear.We evaluated associations of deep learning-derived temporalis muscle (TM) cross-sectional area (CSA) and radiomic texture features from baseline T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with incident dementia in dementia-free participants from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) (n = 750) and the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) study (n = 532). TM was segmented using a convolutional neural network trained in ADNI and externally validated in ARIC. Radiomic features were reduced using least absolute shrinkage and selection operator-penalized Cox models to generate a composite score. Multivariable Cox regression adjusted for demographics, apolipoprotein E ε4, baseline cognition, body mass index, and physical performance.Higher TM radiomic scores were associated with increased dementia risk in ADNI (hazard ratio per SD, 1.32) and ARIC (1.64). Smaller TM CSA predicted dementia in ADNI but not ARIC.TM texture patterns from routine brain MRI are associated with dementia risk, supporting TM phenotyping as a scalable marker of systemic biological vulnerability.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559224 is a review article
The apolipoprotein E (APOE) +4 allele is a major genetic risk factor for mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and is associated with hippocampal dysfunction. However, its effects on hippocampal subregional functional connectivity (FC) and clinical manifestations in MCI patients with subsyndromal depression (MCID) remain unclear.In this study, 88 patients with MCID were stratified into APOE+4 homozygotes (n = 12), heterozygotes (n = 31), and non-carriers (n = 45). Resting-state FC of the dorsal (dHIP) and ventral hippocampus (vHIP) was examined. Mediation analyses were conducted to investigate the effect of neurological biomarkers on APOE +4 gene dose, depressive symptoms with cognitive function in MCID.Compared with non-carriers, APOE +4 homozygotes showed decreased FC between the left vHIP and the left inferior temporal gyrus and right precentral gyrus, while heterozygotes showed decreased FC between the left vHIP and the right middle frontal gyrus and left cerebellum. In addition, APOE +4 homozygotes exhibited a gene dose-dependent reduction in FC between the vHIP and the left postcentral gyrus (PoCG) compared with heterozygotes. Importantly, vHIP-PoCG FC mediated the relationship between depressive symptoms and cognitive impairment, and between APOE +4 gene dose and cognitive impairment in MCID patients.These findings suggest that reduced vHIP-PoCG FC may represent a candidate neuroimaging correlate in MCID and may underlie APOE +4-related vulnerability to depressive and cognitive symptoms. Moreover, the mediating effect of vHIP-PoCG FC may partly account for the association among APOE +4 gene dose, depressive symptoms, and cognitive impairment in MCID.Copyright © 2026 Du, Li, Wen, Du and Jiang.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556482 is a review article
To investigate the association between apolipoprotein E (APOE) gene polymorphisms and coronary heart disease (CHD) risk within a localized Mongolian clinical cohort.This hospital-based case-control study recruited 63 patients with angiographically confirmed CHD and 61 sex-matched healthy controls. Anthropometric measurements and lipid profiles and pathways for APOE genotypes were strictly assessed. This exploratory hospital-based case-control study was not designed as a nationally representative population-based survey, and participant recruitment was limited to a single tertiary referral center in Mongolia.High-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels were significantly higher in the case group than in the control group (1.56 ± 0.14 vs. 1.33 ± 0.18 mmol/L, P < .001), while total cholesterol was significantly lower in cases than in controls (3.91 ± 0.60 vs. 5.34 ± 0.80 mmol/L, P < .001). The distribution of APOE genotypes (ε2/ε3, ε3/ε3, ε3/ε4, and ε4/ε4) differed significantly between the case and control groups (P = .009). Both systolic and diastolic blood pressure significantly correlated with waist circumference (P = .026). Multivariable logistic regression revealed that the ε2/ε3 genotype was associated with significantly lower odds of disease (odds ratio [OR] = 0.29, P = .007, 95% CI: 0.12-0.71), whereas ε4-related findings were highly imprecise due to sparse genotype counts and lacked statistical significance (OR = 1.07, P = .930, 95% CI: 0.23-5.02).This study showed a significant association between the APOE genotype and CHD in a Mongolian population. These findings highlight the importance of considering qualitative aspects of lipid metabolism, rather than total cholesterol alone, and suggest that genetic factors, including APOE polymorphisms, may contribute to CHD risk independently of absolute cholesterol levels, underscoring the need for population-specific cardiovascular risk assessment.
Equine persistent post-breeding endometritis may lead to endometrosis, characterized by excessive fibrosis, which is a major cause of subfertility/infertility. Endometrial proteomic changes induced by endometritis, when associated with fibrosis, were investigated to identify the biological processes (BP) involved. Cyclic mares´ endometrial biopsies were histologically classified (Kenney and Doig's) as: category IIA (n = 5), category IIA with endometritis (IIA-E; n = 4), category IIB (n = 5), or category IIB with endometritis (IIB-E; n = 5). Proteome was assessed by LC-MS/MS. In total, 62 differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) were identified in IIA-E endometria, compared to IIA; and 46 in IIB-E endometria, compared to IIB. The DAPs in endometria with endometritis (IIA-E vs. IIA; IIB-E vs. IIB) were mostly enriched in BP related to immune/inflammatory response, DNA-related process and cell cycle. Inflammatory-related proteins (serpin proteins and several phospholipases) were upregulated in endometritis, regardless of the degree of fibrosis and inflammation, suggesting the activation of conserved innate immune mechanisms. Nevertheless, fibrosis severity determined the expression pattern of histone H2A, which was upregulated in IIA-E endometria, and downregulated in IIB-E endometria. Additionally, other inflammatory-related proteins (azurocidin 1, eosinophil peroxidase and secreted phosphoprotein 1) were differently abundant only in endometritis associated with endometrosis (IIB-E), indicating that moderate fibrosis and endometrial degeneration may influence the inflammatory and tissue remodelling response. In conclusion, although conserved innate immune mechanisms operate independently of fibrosis severity and of endometrial inflammatory state, other processes activated during endometritis are influenced by the endometrium milieu, namely by the progression of endometrial fibrosis, which might modulate specific molecular responses.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42366210 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42252654 is a review article
Benralizumab, an interleukin-5 receptor α antagonist, depletes blood eosinophils, reducing exacerbations of severe asthma by approximately 50% versus placebo. In this study, we aimed to characterise mechanisms underlying exacerbations occurring on benralizumab.BenRex, a multicentre, prospective cohort study, recruited participants meeting national licensing criteria for benralizumab for asthma. The study was conducted in 15 UK severe asthma centres. After collecting baseline data, open-label benralizumab was administered for 12-18 months. At exacerbation, participants attended for medical review before initiating treatment, fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO), spirometry, asthma control questionnaire, and blood and sputum sampling.Between Sept 30, 2019, and April 23, 2024, 121 exacerbation events were assessed in 156 individuals. 90 participants (58%) were female and 66 (42%) were male; 147 (94%) of participants identified as White. Median blood eosinophil counts at exacerbation were 0 (IQR 0-0) cells per μL. Airway neutrophilia was present in 55% of exacerbations where sputum was available (27/49). Median C-reactive protein (CRP) increased from 3·00 mg/L (1·00-6·00) at baseline to 9·00 mg/L (3·00-17·00) at exacerbation (p=0·0067). Clinically relevant viral pathogens were seen in eight (20·5%) of 39 sputum samples; although viruses were detected in 22 (56·4%) of 39 samples. Influenza A, metapneumovirus, and rhinovirus were the most common viral pathogens (each found in 2 [5·1%] of 39 samples). New acquisition of Moraxella catarrhalis (3 [13·6%] of 22), Haemophilus influenzae (4 [18·2%] of 22), and Streptococcus pneumoniae (2 [9·1%] of 22) occurred. DNA-neutrophil elastase complexes (p=0·0080) and azurocidin-1 (p=0·012) concentrations rose from baseline to exacerbation. FeNO was ≥50 parts per billion in 56 (50·5%) of 111 assessed exacerbations and was associated with reduced odds of bacterial detection. FeNO did not correlate with CRP or sputum neutrophils.Our findings suggested that eosinophilic inflammation is not involved in exacerbations when a patient is being treated with benralizumab. Airway neutrophilia, viral pathogens, and alteration of the sputum microbiome point to infection as the most prominent causes of exacerbations. This observation should improve precision management of asthma exacerbations occurring despite treatment with benralizumab.AstraZeneca.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Significant atrial low-voltage zones (LVZs), indicative of advanced atrial fibrillation (AF), are associated with atrial arrhythmia (AA) recurrence following catheter ablation. Although preoperative prediction remains challenging, a low plasma atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) level relative to B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) reflects atrial fatigue with impaired ANP secretion and may indicate advanced atrial remodeling and LVZs.We retrospectively evaluated 166 consecutive patients with persistent AF who underwent initial catheter ablation using a 3-dimensional mapping system. The optimal ANP/BNP ratio cut-off for predicting LVZ presence was determined using receiver operating characteristic curve analysis. The primary outcome was AA recurrence. An ANP/BNP ratio of 0.7 was optimal for predicting LVZ presence (area under the curve 0.76; sensitivity 81%; specificity 60%). Patients with an ANP/BNP ratio ≤0.7 (n=91) had a significantly higher prevalence of LVZs (52% vs. 15%; P<0.001) and higher AA recurrence risk following initial pulmonary vein isolation (log-rank P=0.025; hazard ratio 1.85; 95% confidence interval 1.09-3.14; median follow-up period 583 days).Serum ANP/BNP ratio is a useful surrogate biomarker for predicting advanced atrial remodeling with significant LVZs and AA recurrence following catheter ablation. ANP secretion assessment may help in candidate selection among patients with persistent AF who can benefit from catheter ablation.Copyright © 2026, THE JAPANESE CIRCULATION SOCIETY.
Extracellular vesicles derived from induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSC EVs) have immunoregulatory potential with the ability to alter the macrophage phenotype. Modulating the macrophage phenotype towards an anti-inflammatory, pro-resolving state may be beneficial in the treatment of chronic inflammatory diseases. The contents of iPSC EVs and their effects on macrophages are poorly understood. Here iPSC EVs were characterized and analysed by mass spectrometry-based proteomics and a targeted microRNA (miR) panel and their immunomodulatory effects on primary human macrophages were assessed. Podocalyxin-like protein 1 (PODXL1) and Insulin (INS) were the most abundant proteins unique to the iPSC EVs while miR-302d-3p was the most abundant miR. Notably, thioredoxin- and peroxiredoxin-related proteins were detected. iPSC EVs increased the anti-inflammatory associated Mannose Receptor C-Type 1 (MRC1) and miR-21, while monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1) and IL-8 were decreased. Proteomics revealed that treated macrophages had decreased levels of chemoattractant proteins, Azurocidin 1 (AZU1), Growth Differentiation Factor 15 (GDF15), and Ribosomal Protein S19 (RPS19). Conditioned media from macrophages treated with iPSC EVs inhibited monocyte transmigration, a key component in the propagation of inflammation. This study provides insights into the protein and miR cargo of iPSC EVs and highlights their capacity to inhibit chemotactic proteins in macrophages.© 2026. The Author(s).
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a leading cause of disability worldwide, and currently available antidepressants remain limited by delayed onset of action, incomplete response, and adverse effects. Ketamine is a rapid-acting antidepressant, whereas xanomeline, an M1/M4 muscarinic receptor agonist, may represent a mechanistically distinct non-monoaminergic strategy. However, the molecular basis by which xanomeline may influence depression-related pathways, and its relationship to ketamine, remain unclear. We used network pharmacology and molecular docking to compare the shared and distinct molecular mechanisms of xanomeline and ketamine in MDD. Potential drug targets were collected from public databases and intersected with MDD-related targets. Protein-protein interaction analysis was performed to identify hub genes, followed by Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analyses. Drug-pathway-target-disease networks were constructed, and shared core targets were further evaluated by molecular docking. We identified 368 overlapping targets for xanomeline-MDD and 714 for ketamine-MDD. Three KEGG pathways were shared between the two networks: EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor resistance, Ras signaling, and Rap1 signaling. EGFR, insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R), and SRC proto-oncogene, non-receptor tyrosine kinase, emerged as common core targets. Xanomeline was more strongly associated with receptor tyrosine kinase and PI3K/AKT-related signaling, whereas ketamine was more strongly linked to synaptic transmission, NMDA receptor-related functions, and glutamatergic signaling. Molecular docking supported structurally plausible binding of both drugs to EGFR, IGF1R, and SRC. These findings suggest partial convergence on downstream plasticity-related signaling nodes despite distinct upstream mechanisms and warrant further experimental investigation. However, the results should be interpreted as hypothesis-generating rather than as evidence of shared functional target engagement.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
We examined gene expression profiles in abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) lesions vs. normal aortas by cDNA microarray and real-time quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR).Phosphorus (32P)-labeled cDNA from AAA specimens (mean AAA size 6.65 cm) and normal aortas were hybridized with a 588-gene microarray primarily of the cardiovascular system. The results were validated by qRT-PCR.A total of 35 out of the 588 genes were differentially expressed, with either log2 ratio of AAAs/controls ≥1 (upregulated; 20 genes) or ≤-1 (downregulated; 15 genes) in AAA lesions vs. normal aorta, and 25 of these were significantly different (71%). Expression of matrix metalloproteinase 9, TIMP metallopeptidase inhibitor 3, collagen type I α 1 chain (COL1A1), COL6A3, COL15A1, intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM1), ICAM2, decorin, endoglin, apolipoprotein D (APOD), APOE, phospholipid transfer protein, calcium and integrin binding 1 (CIB1), phospholipase A2 group IIA, von Willebrand factor, serpin family B member 6 (SERPINB6), urokinase-type plasminogen activator, H19, C-C motif chemokine ligand 2, and platelet-derived growth factor receptor beta was upregulated in AAA vs. normal aorta. Expression of collagen type IV α 4 chain (COL4A4), COL11A2, gap junction protein α 1 (GJA1), biglycan, integrin subunit α 8, galectin-1, low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1, acetyl-CoA acyltransferase, serpin family E member 1, melanoma cellular adhesion molecule, sodium channel epithelial 1 subunit beta (SCNN1B), natriuretic peptide receptor 1 (NPR1), superoxide dismutase 3, actinin α 1 (ACTN1) and cardiac phospholamban (PLN) was downregulated.Eleven genes differentially expressed (p≤0.05) in AAA lesions vs. normal aortas were not reported previously: upregulated: COL6A3, COL15A1, ICAM2, APOD, CIB and SERPINB6; downregulated: GJA1, SCNN1B, NPR1, ACTN1 and PLN. Remaining results confirmed previous reports regarding 21 genes differentially expressed in AAA. qRT-PCR results were in general in agreement with microarray results.Copyright © 2026, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Dipeptidyl peptidase-1 (DPP1) inhibitors prevent the activation of neutrophil serine proteases and reduce exacerbations in people with bronchiectasis. We previously identified a novel effect of DPP1 inhibitors in reducing the neutrophil pseudoenzyme azurocidin-1 (AZU1). The aim of this study was to investigate the role of AZU1 in the pathophysiology of bronchiectasis.Sputum AZU1 concentrations were analysed in multiple cohorts. These consisted of two observational cohorts of patients with bronchiectasis (EMBARC BRIDGE cohort 1 and cohort 2) and a cohort of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD; TARDIS COPD cohort) to correlate AZU1 with disease severity and exacerbations. A rhinovirus challenge study was used to investigate AZU1 concentrations during experimental exacerbation in COPD, people who smoke, and controls. A post-hoc analysis of the phase 2 WILLOW trial of brensocatib versus placebo was used to assess the effect of DPP1 inhibition on airway AZU1.Higher AZU1 sputum concentration was associated with increased bronchiectasis disease severity index (p<0·0001), decreased percentage predicted forced expiratory volume in 1 second (r=-0·4662, p<0·001), and increased exacerbation frequency (p<0·0019; EMBARC cohort 1, n=197). AZU1 was associated with radiological severity (Reiff score), symptoms (quality of life bronchiectasis respiratory symptom score), and bacterial infection (sputum microbiology and 16S microbiome alpha diversity; highest levels of AZU1 were found in airway samples with Pseudomonas aeruginosa; p<0·0001; EMBARC cohort 2, n=144). Bronchiectasis patients with bacterial and viral exacerbations had increased concentrations of AZU1 (p=0·0003; n=96). These findings were extended to COPD, in which AZU1 was related to COPD severity (COPD cohort, n=101), and in patients with COPD challenged with rhinovirus A16, AZU1 was increased at day 9 post-challenge (p<0·001; n=9). In-vitro AZU1 impaired ciliary function and epithelial integrity, suggesting a mechanism by which AZU1 drives disease pathogenesis. In a post-hoc analysis of the WILLOW trial, AZU1 was the most downregulated protein with brensocatib treatment (brensocatib 10 mg, n=71; brensocatib 25 mg, n=73; and placebo, n=71). Over 24 weeks, AZU1 was significantly reduced by DPP1 inhibition (p<0·0001).AZU1 was identified as a novel marker of disease severity in bronchiectasis, associated with bacterial infection and exacerbation, and targeted by DPP1 inhibition.EMBARC3 and Insmed.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
The tachykinin receptor 2 (TACR2) is encoded by the tachykinin receptor correlation gene. Recent microarray analysis for prostate cancer suggests that TACR2 expression is associated with clinical phenotype and disease-free survival among patients with prostate cancer.TACR2 protein levels were lower in prostate cancer tissues than in adjacent normal prostate tissue. TACR2 expression significantly correlated with clinical stage, Gleason scores, and survival outcomes. TACR2 expression positively correlated with mast cells and negatively correlated with M2 macrophages. Overexpression of TACR2 promoted the migration and proliferation of prostate cancer cells by regulating the Wnt signaling pathway.The TACR2-Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway is critical in prostate cancer. TACR2 may affect tumor cells' occurrence and development by changing the content of immune cells in the tumor microenvironment. These findings suggest that TACR2 may be a candidate molecular biomarker for prostate cancer therapy.© 2021. The Author(s).
Cardiac cachexia (CC) is an indicator of advanced heart failure (AHF), with significant unintentional weight loss (UWL) and poor prognosis. Its diagnostic criteria incorporate upregulation of established inflammatory cytokines. Identification of novel biomarkers, for example, via proteomic analyses, could unearth unstudied mechanisms behind CC formation with future applications in disease therapeutics. This study, therefore, aimed to explore the presence of contemporary, novel biomarkers, and mechanistic pathways in CC using targeted proteomics.Patients with AHF or stable heart failure were recruited and the presence of CC/UWL was identified. AHF was identified using the American Heart Association "I NEED HELP" criteria, and CC was identified using the contemporary 2008 consensus definition. All patients underwent phlebotomy, with plasma proteomic analyses using Olink Target 96 Cardiovascular II panel. Median proteins concentrations were compared between the CC/UWL group and the rest of cohort, with enrichment analyses conducted to identify potential novel pathways behind disease formation. Area under the receiver operator curve analysis was conducted to determine whether significant biomarkers had potential in identifying CC/UWL.Six proteins were differentially expressed in the CC/UWL group, of which four were novel: interleukin-27 and -4, vascular endothelial growth factor D, and bone morphogenetic protein-6. All were suitable biomarkers (area under the receiver operator curve range 0.741-0.826). Protein enrichment analyses yielded significant pathways in disease formation relating to immune regulation and cytokine signalling.We identified four novel biomarkers in CC, all of which are feasible biomarkers of disease identification, with proposed pathways of potential pathogenesis. Further research should be undertaken to validate our findings to better understand the mechanistic pathways in functional studies, with onward consideration regarding whether our findings have therapeutic applications.Copyright © 2026 Australian and New Zealand Society of Cardiac and Thoracic Surgeons (ANZSCTS) and the Cardiac Society of Australia and New Zealand (CSANZ). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Breast cancer (BC) is the main cause of cancer-related mortality in women and is influenced by genetic, environmental and lifestyle factors. The inactivation of tumor suppressor genes, such as bone morphogenetic protein 6 (BMP6), breast cancer susceptibility gene 1 (BRCA1), estrogen receptor 2 (ESR2), glutathione S-transferase π1 (GSTP1) and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 3 (TIMP3), via methylation may contribute to the development of BC. The present study analyzed the methylation status of these genes in 60 BC and benign disease (BD) tissue samples from Mexican women and the association with clinical and histopathological variables. DNA was modified with sodium bisulfite, followed by methylation-specific PCR and electrophoresis, and analyzed using χ2 test, Fisher's exact test, logistic regression, odds ratio (OR) with 95% confidence interval and Kaplan-Meier curves. The results indicated that the average age was higher in the BC group compared with that in the BD group (55 vs. 42 years; P<0.00001), with ≥50 years being a significant risk factor (OR, 5.44; P=0.00002). Only BRCA1 demonstrated a significant difference in methylation status, increasing the susceptibility to BC (OR, 2.50; P=0.0001), and tending to be associated with increased proliferation and lymph node metastasis. TIMP3 methylation was significantly associated with distant metastasis (OR, 8.65; P=0.028). Methylation of BRCA1 and TIMP3 demonstrated a significant association with poor prognosis in BC. BRCA1 was methylated more frequently in women with BC and TIMP3 was associated with a higher risk of distant metastasis. The present study highlighted the potential of these genes as prognostic biomarkers and the need to further explore DNA methylation for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes in future research.Copyright: © 2026 de la Torre-Guzmán et al.
Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), including Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC), are chronic disorders with relapsing and remitting disease courses. Several clinical indicators and biomarkers have been evaluated for their clinical utility in assessing disease prognosis and monitoring disease activity. This study evaluated the utility of growth differentiation factor-15 (GDF15) and bone morphogenetic protein-6 (BMP6) in inflammatory pathways and iron regulation in IBD.Between September 2015 and March 2016, this single-center, cross-sectional study included 40 CD patients, 29 UC patients, and 70 healthy controls. The disease activity was measured using the Mayo score and the Crohn's Disease Activity Index (CDAI). Serum iron, hematological indices, inflammatory markers, and the novel biomarkers BMP6 and GDF15 as determined by ELISA were evaluated.Both the CD and UC groups showed significantly lower serum iron (p < 0.001), reduced mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration, and higher red cell distribution width than the control group. Inflammatory markers, including erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein (CRP), were elevated in IBD, particularly during active disease, with CRP increasing significantly in active UC compared to remission (p = 0.040). In contrast, BMP6 and GDF15 levels did not differ significantly between the disease groups or activity states. Nonetheless, GDF15 demonstrated moderate positive correlations with serum iron (r = 0.314), hemoglobin (r = 0.320), and mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC) (r = 0.344), suggesting a link to erythropoietic or iron-related processes rather than inflammation.Conventional markers reliably confirmed iron deficiency and inflammation in IBD. BMP6 and GDF15 levels did not differ significantly across disease states, indicating limited utility as markers of disease activity. Notably, GDF15 was positively correlated with serum iron, hemoglobin, and MCHC, suggesting its association with iron metabolism rather than active inflammation. Larger longitudinal studies are warranted to validate this potential role.Not applicable.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41789095 is a review article
Calcium phosphate (CaP) ceramics are widely used in bone regenerative medicine for their osteoconductive properties. Osteogrow-C is a novel device that comprises recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein 6 (rhBMP6) in autologous blood coagulum, utilizing ceramics as a compression-resistant matrix. This study evaluated how CaP granule size and composition affect bone formation and implant integrity in 2 relevant animal models: the rat subcutaneous model and rabbit posterolateral lumbar fusion (PLF) model, over 1 year. The implants in the rat model had varying granule size ranges (74 to 420 μm, 500 to 1,700 μm, 2,360 to 4,000 μm) and compositions [β-tricalcium phosphate (β-TCP), hydroxyapatite (HA), and biphasic ceramics (TCP/HA 80/20)]. Micro-computed tomography (CT) and histology showed that Osteogrow-C induced bone formation on all ceramic scaffolds, with smaller granules resulting in higher bone volume and density, regardless of composition. TCP granules were most resorbed, but residual ceramics persisted in all groups. Based on these findings, Osteogrow-C, containing small granules with different compositions (TCP, HA, TCP/HA 80/20, and TCP/HA 40/60), was further tested in the clinically relevant rabbit PLF model and induced fusion of transverse processes. Importantly, ceramics were more resorbed in the rabbit PLF model, with TCP and TCP/HA 80/20 ceramics showing the highest resorption rate, while HA remained intact. Osteogrow-C containing HA showed increased bone volume; however, biomechanical strength and thicker cortical bone were achieved with TCP and biphasic calcium phosphate (BCP). Finally, in the rat model, bone volume was primarily dependent on granule size, with smaller granules promoting greater bone formation and density. Conversely, in the PLF model, the composition played a more important role-affecting ceramic resorption, bone volume, and biomechanical properties.Copyright © 2026 Nikola Stokovic et al.
Hepcidin, a liver-derived hormone, is the central regulator of systemic iron homeostasis. Elevated hepcidin levels contribute to iron-refractory iron-deficiency anemia and anemia of inflammation, both characterized by restricted iron availability. Current treatments, such as parenteral iron infusions, are often ineffective and pose risks of adverse reactions, underscoring the need for alternative therapeutic strategies targeting hepcidin. We previously identified a novel hepcidin regulatory pathway involving liver heparan sulfate (HS) proteoglycans (HSPGs), which modulate receptor-ligand interactions through their sulfated HS chains. Recently, we found that halofuginone (HF) impairs HS biosynthesis and considered whether it could be used as a hepcidin modulator. Here, we demonstrate that in human hepatoma (Hep3B) cells, HF inhibits both basal and bone morphogenetic protein 6-induced hepcidin expression and SMAD1 phosphorylation signaling in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Consistently, Hep3B cells lacking HS (EXT1-/-) show no hepcidin suppression in response to HF. In vivo administration of HF reduces hepcidin expression in an iron-overload mouse model (8.3 g/kg carbonyl iron). This effect was absent in mice with impaired liver HS sulfation (Ndst1f/fAlbCre+), confirming that HF suppresses hepcidin via HSPG-mediated mechanisms. Additionally, HF decreased hepcidin expression in mice subjected to acute inflammation. These findings establish HF as a potential therapeutic for mitigating hepcidin-driven iron restriction in anemic disorders.© 2026 American Society of Hematology. Published by Elsevier Inc. Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0), permitting only noncommercial, nonderivative use with attribution. All other rights reserved.
Shallow trophoblast invasion and improper maternal spiral artery remodeling are the primary mechanisms underlying the development of preeclampsia (PE). Bone morphogenetic protein 6 (BMP6) is a proinvasive and proangiogenic factor in vitro; however, its regulatory mechanisms in trophoblast behavior and its role in PE development remain unclear. In this study, primary human trophoblasts and the HTR8/SVneo cell line were utilized asin vitrostudy models. Bulk RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data were analyzed to explore the expression patterns of BMP6-regulated genes. We found that BMP6 treatment significantly upregulated inhibitor of DNA-binding 1 (ID1) in human trophoblasts. ID1 depletion abolished both basal and BMP6-induced trophoblast invasion and vascular mimicry. Mechanistically, ID1-mediated upregulation of serpin family E member 2 (SERPINE2) and placental growth factor (PlGF) was essential for BMP6-induced trophoblast invasion. In third-trimester placentas, BMP6 mRNA and protein levels were significantly elevated in PE compared with controls. In the adenovirus-expressing fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 (Ad Flt1)-induced rat model of PE, both circulating BMP6 and placental Bmp6 expression were increased in PE rats in late pregnancy. Significantly, BMP6 supplementation during early pregnancy (gestational days 10-13) alleviated maternal hypertension and fetal growth restriction in the PE model. These findings suggest BMP6 promotes trophoblast invasion through ID1-mediated upregulation of SERPINE2 and PlGF. The late-gestation upregulation of BMP6 may represent a compensatory response to shallow trophoblast invasion in PE. Early BMP6 supplementation mitigates PE-related phenotypes in a rat model, highlighting BMP6 as a potential therapeutic target for the prevention and management of PE.© 2026. The Author(s).
Bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling has multiple functions in immune cells, especially in the differentiation of T cells. Previously, we found that BMP6 can dramatically promote the IFN-γ production in Th1. However, the interactions between BMP6 and Th17 cells remain poorly characterized. The evidence implicates dysregulated Th17 cell differentiation as a pivotal mechanism in psoriatic pathogenesis, yet the therapeutic potential of BMP6 in this autoimmune disease needs to be further explored. This study aimed to evaluate the potentially beneficial role of BMP6 in the Th17-induced psoriatic models and investigate its possible mechanisms. Th17 cells were intervened with BMP6 in vitro. The differentiation of Th17 was observed through multi-platform assessment combining flow cytometry, qRT-PCR, and ELISA. Signaling pathway activation was evaluated by Western blotting. RNAseq was used to further discover the impact of BMP6 on Th17. For in vivo experiments, the psoriatic model of C57BL/6 mice was established and treated with BMP6 i.d., and the Th17 cells were evaluated by flow cytometry. BMP6 treatment suppressed Th17 differentiation via the Smad1/5/9 pathway and impaired mitochondrial metabolism of Th17. In the imiquimod-induced psoriatic murine model, pharmacological BMP6 administration significantly attenuated disease progression and downregulated pathogenic Th17 cell frequency in lesional skin. Our finding elucidates the potential mechanism underlying the inhibitory effects of BMP6 in Th17-induced autoimmune diseases and furnish a theoretical foundation for its clinical application.© 2026. The Author(s).
What are the molecular mechanisms of action of nuclear paraspeckle assembly transcript 1 (NEAT1), miR-130a-3p and bone morphogenetic protein 6 (BMP6) in regulating ovarian granulosa cell (OGC) apoptosis and dysfunction in women with diminished ovarian reserve (DOR)?Follicular fluid was collected from 20 women undergoing oocyte retrieval: 10 with DOR and 10 with normal ovarian reserve (NOR). OGC were isolated and assayed for expression of NEAT1, miR-130a-3p and BMP6. Granulosa-like tumour cell line (KGN) cells were used to investigate NEAT1 function by gene silencing and overexpression.NEAT1 and BMP6 expression were significantly lower in DOR-derived OGC compared with NOR-derived OGC (P < 0.001), while miR-130a-3p expression was elevated (P < 0.001). NEAT1 expression was positively correlated with embryo number (r = 0.505, P = 0.023), number of high-quality embryos (r = 0.757, P < 0.001), two-pronuclei fertilization rate (r = 0.477, P = 0.033) and oocyte yield (r = 0.511, P = 0.021). Dual-Luciferase Reporter assays demonstrated that miR-130a-3p binds directly to NEAT1 and BMP6 3'UTR (P < 0.001). Functionally, NEAT1 overexpression significantly promoted the proliferation and migration of KGN cells, while suppressing apoptosis (P < 0.001); these effects were partially attenuated by miR-130a-3p mimic transfection. Conversely, inhibition of miR-130a-3p significantly reduced apoptosis, and enhanced proliferation and migration of KGN cells (P < 0.001); these effects were partially reversed upon BMP6 silencing.NEAT1 inhibits apoptosis and promotes proliferation and migration of OGC through the miR-130a-3p/BMP6 axis, which may improve oocyte quality in patients with DOR. As such, NEAT1 may be a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for DOR.ChiCTR2400079975.Copyright © 2025 Reproductive Healthcare Ltd. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Background: Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic autoinflammatory rheumatic disease mainly affecting the sacroiliac joints and spine, causing altered bone remodeling. Pro-inflammatory cytokines such as TNF-α and IL-17 contribute to bone loss by modulating pathways including Wnt/β-catenin, which is inhibited by proteins like Dickkopf-1 (DKK-1) and sclerostin (SOST). Bone morphogenetic protein-6 (BMP-6) promotes osteoblast differentiation and bone formation. This study evaluated the association between serum levels of DKK-1, SOST, BMP-6, and bone mineral density (BMD) in AS patients treated with anti-TNF agents and conventional synthetic DMARDs (csDMARDs). Methods: A cross-sectional study included 76 AS patients diagnosed by modified New York criteria and 30 healthy donors matched by age and sex. BMD at the lumbar spine and hips was assessed by DXA in all participants. Disease activity (BASDAI) and functional index (BASFI) were measured in AS patients. Serum levels of DKK-1, SOST, BMP-6, TNF-α, and IL-17 were quantified by ELISA in both groups. AS patients were divided into two treatment groups: combined anti-TNFα and csDMARD therapy (n = 38), and only csDMARDs (n = 38). Results: Bone mineral density showed no significant statistical differences between the spine (p = 0.930) and hips (p = 0.876) in AS patients compared to healthy controls. The activity (BASDAI) and functionality (BASFI) scores were similar in both treatment groups (p = 0.161 and p = 0.271, respectively). No significant differences were found in serum levels of DKK-1 (p = 0.815), SOST (p = 0.771), BMP-6 (p = 0.451), or IL-17 (p = 0.335) between combined anti-TNFα and csDMARD therapy versus monotherapy with csDMARD. Conclusions: The combination of anti-TNF bDMARD therapy and csDMARD therapy is not significantly associated with serum levels of DKK-1, SOST, BMP-6, and BMD compared to those treated with csDMARD monotherapy in patients with AS. This study provides novel and clinically relevant evidence on how anti-TNF bDMARDs and csDMARDs differentially affect bone turnover biomarkers and bone health in patients with AS, contributing to a better understanding of therapeutic strategies and guiding future research and clinical decision-making.
Angiogenesis is crucial for tissue repair and the treatment of ischemic diseases, yet effective small-molecule proangiogenic agents are lacking in clinical practice. Chalcone-based compounds are of interest due to their diverse biological activities. This study aimed to synthesize and evaluate the proangiogenic potential of a series of novel chalcone derivatives and to elucidate their structure-activity relationship (SAR) using computational chemistry. We synthesized and tested six chalcone derivatives (1a-1f), with compound (E)-1-(3,4-dimethoxyphenyl)-3-(3-hydroxy-4-methoxyphenyl)prop-2-en-1-one (1c) exhibiting the highest activity. In the zebrafish model, treatment with 1c significantly increased the formation of branch points and vessel outgrowth in the subintestinal vein (SIV) (number of branch points: 1c group 2.28 ± 0.19, control group 0.79 ± 0.17; p < 0.001). Using Tg(fli1:egfp) transgenic zebrafish, we observed that 1c dramatically promoted the remodeling of the caudal vein plexus (CVP), leading to a significant increase in the number of intercapillary spaces (1c group 16.3 ± 1.9, mock group 11.6 ± 2). Mechanistically, real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) results showed that 1c treatment upregulated the expression of key angiogenic genes cadherin 5 and neuropilin 1a, while downregulating the expression of fms-related receptor tyrosine kinase 1. Furthermore, the chick embryo chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) assay confirmed that 1c effectively induced vascular network formation. Computational chemistry analyses (DFT, MESP, and FMO) were highly consistent with the biological activity. 1c possessed the highest electrophilicity index (ω), chemical potential (μ), and electron transfer capability (ΔN), as well as the strongest electrophilic site (V s,max), which explains its superior biological activity. This study confirms the potent proangiogenic activity of chalcone derivative 1c, providing a promising lead compound for the development of novel small-molecule therapeutics targeting vascular dysfunction diseases.Copyright © 2026 Yau-Hung Chen et al. Journal of Toxicology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Sickle cell trait (SCT) is a genetic condition characterized by a heterozygous A-T substitution (Glu to Val) in 1 copy of the β-globin (HBB) gene on chromosome 11. Although often asymptomatic, individuals with SCT can experience complications under stress, such as hypoxia, dehydration, and extreme exertion, leading to vaso-occlusion, organ damage, and impaired immune defenses. Understanding the impact of SCT on the immune system may aid in preventing clinical complications. We genotyped 720 newborns from The Gambia, West Africa, an area in which people are prone to have sickle cell disorders, using RNA-sequencing reads mapped to the HBB gene to identify those with SCT and investigate immune development using single-omics and multiomics approaches. We identified 118 newborns (~17%) with SCT and 4 (0.6%) with sickle cell disease (SCD). Newborns with SCT demonstrated distinct molecular signatures across day of life (DOL) 0, 1, 3, and 7, compared with those without, including reduction of DOL 3 plasma proteins (eg, cysteine-rich secretory protein-3, inter-α-trypsin inhibitor 1, tetranectin, and cadherin-5). Additionally, we observed enrichment of pathways previously associated with SCD, such as the Jison sickle cell pathway, along with those linked to hematologic (chronic leukemia), hepatic (liver cancer), and renal (aging kidney) functions and disorders. These SCT-based associations were validated in an independent cohort of 45 neonates. Despite the absence of overt early clinical phenotypes, SCT-associated changes manifest in the first week of life at the molecular level. Monitoring and characterizing these associations may enable the identification of future disease risks and the development of preventive strategies. This trial was registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as #NCT03246230.
Endothelial dysfunction is a critical determinant of sepsis-associated organ injury, often driven by its interaction with overactivated immune cells. Neutrophils, the dominant early responders in sepsis, contribute to endothelial barrier disruption, yet the underlying metabolic and epigenetic mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here, we observed elevated intracellular lactate levels in neutrophils from septic patients which correlated with organ dysfunction and systemic inflammatory markers. Mechanistically, lactate-induced histone H3K18 lactylation (H3K18la) enhanced ATG7/GSA7 (autophagy related 7) transcription, initiating a non-degradative, secretory autophagy program. This facilitated the extracellular release of IL1B/IL-1B (interleukin 1 beta), a key driver of endothelial dysfunction. Interference of lactate production, ATG7 expression or IL1B signaling alleviated endothelial dysfunction in vitro. In vivo, myeloid-specific deletion of the lactylation writer EP300/p300 (EP300 lysine acetyltransferase) mitigated pulmonary endothelial dysfunction and lung injury. Additionally, the stress-responsive transcription factor ATF4/CREB-2 (activating transcription factor 4) was found to directly interact with both EP300 and H3K18la, amplifying H3K18la-driven ATG7 transcription. Our findings uncover a metabolically driven, epigenetically regulated secretory autophagy pathway in neutrophils that mediates endothelial dysfunction. Our study provides mechanistic insights into neutrophil-endothelial crosstalk in sepsis and identifies EP300, ATG7, and IL1B as potential therapeutic targets for sepsis.Abbreviations: ALI: acute lung injury; ANOVA: analysis of variance; ATF4/CREB-2: activating transcription factor 4; ATG7/GSA7: autophagy related 7; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BMDN: bone marrow-derived neutrophil; C-CASP1: cleaved-caspase 1; CDH5/CD144: cadherin 5; CRP/PTX1: C-reactive protein; CST3: cystatin C; CXCL8/IL-8: C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 8; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DEG: differentially expressed gene; dHL-60: dimethyl sulfoxide-differentiated HL-60 cell; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; EP300/p300: EP300 lysine acetyltransferase; GOT1/AST: glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1; GPT/ALT: glutamic - pyruvic transaminase; GSDMD-N: gasdermin D N-terminal; H&E: hematoxylin and eosin; H3K18la: histone H3K18 lactylation; HRP: horseradish peroxidase; ICU: intensive care unit; IHC: immunohistochemistry; IL1B/IL-1B: interleukin 1 beta; IL1R1/CD121A: interleukin 1 receptor type 1; IL6/IL-6: interleukin 6; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; LAMP1/CD107a: lysosome associated membrane protein 1; LDHA: lactate dehydrogenase A; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; NLRP3/NALP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PCT: procalcitonin; PMN: peripheral neutrophils; Rapa: rapamycin; RNA-seq: RNA-sequencing; SERPINE1/PAI1: serpin family E member 1; SDS-PAGE: sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; SOFA: Sequential Organ Failure Assessment; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TNF/TNF-alpha: tumor necrosis factor; panKla: pan-histone lactylation; VCAM1/CD106: vascular cell adhesion molecule 1.
Chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML) is defined as a clonal disorder of the myeloid cell lineage, with the characteristic feature being monocytosis. Chromosomal abnormalities are common, but translocations involving chromosome 1p36 are rare. Here, we document a case of CMML that carried an unreported translocation involving t(1;3)(p36.2;p12). The patient showed rapid progression and died within six days post-diagnosis. The 1p36.2 chromosomal region harbors tumor suppressors such as PR domain containing 16 (PRDM16), Tumor Protein 73 (TP73), Cadherin 5 or VE-cadherin (CHD5), and Kinase Family Member 1B (KIF1B), while the 3p12 chromosomal location plays a role in the malignant transformation and disruption of the tumor suppressors, focusing on the genomic instability observed in the case. These changes may partially harbor the capacity to contribute to the pathogenesis of aggressive behaviors in leukemia through failure of apoptosis, chromatin remodeling pathways, and enhanced self-renewal capabilities of stem cells.Copyright© by the Association of Genetic Technologists.
How endothelial cell-cell junctions integrate cytoskeletal, adhesive, and local signaling networks to maintain vascular barrier integrity remains incompletely defined. Here, we identify junctional cadherin 5-associated protein (JCAD) as a modular scaffold that organizes endothelial tight junction architecture by coupling junctional condensates to actin and RhoA signaling. Genetic deletion of Jcad in mice does not affect baseline vascular permeability but causes inflammation-dependent barrier hyperpermeability. JCAD depletion in primary human endothelial cells disrupts tight junction continuity and increases paracellular permeability. Mechanistically, JCAD localizes to ZO-1-positive tight junctions independently of VE-cadherin, directly binds filamentous actin, and forms dynamic actin-associated condensates at cell-cell contacts. Structure-function analysis reveals separable domains mediating tight junction targeting and actin binding, establishing a bipartite architecture that distinctly coordinates junctional signaling and cytoskeletal coupling. Together, these findings identify JCAD as a cell-cell adhesion scaffold that integrates the phase-separated tight junction plaque with actin and RhoA-dependent mechanics, enabling endothelial barrier adaptation to inflammatory stress.
Heterotopic ossification (HO) is characterized by ectopic bone formation in soft tissues such as tendons, with an incidence exceeding 30% in high-risk populations. Currently, no targeted therapeutic options are available. In this study, matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) was identified as a critical promoter of HO by mediating the degradation of vascular endothelial Cadherin 5 (CDH5), thereby enhancing vascular permeability and facilitating inflammatory cell infiltration. Through network pharmacology analysis, Forsythoside A (FA), a compound derived from the traditional Chinese medicine Forsythia, was predicted to act as a potential MMP-2 inhibitor. However, the clinical application of FA is hindered by its narrow therapeutic window. To overcome this limitation, we developed an intestinal enzyme-responsive hydrogel (FA@SD-hydrogel) for targeted delivery of FA. This delivery system significantly improved the bioavailability of FA and enabled sustained release, thereby reducing the required dosage and associated toxicity. Comprehensive in vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated that FA@SD-hydrogel achieved superior therapeutic efficacy against HO with reduced toxicity. By inhibiting MMP-2, the hydrogel effectively suppressed ectopic bone formation, reduced local vascular permeability, and reversed the inflammatory microenvironment driven by M1 macrophages, ultimately reprogramming the osteogenic niche. Together, these findings underscore the critical role of the MMP-2/CDH5 axis in HO pathogenesis and establish a targeted therapeutic strategy via FA@SD-hydrogel through the integration of network pharmacology and biomaterial engineering.© 2026 The Authors.
Presently, we investigated hypothesized roles and mechanisms of cell type-specific, selective activation of different vascular NOX (NADPH oxidase) isoforms in obesity and metabolic syndrome.Wild-type, NOX1/2/4 global knockout mice, endothelial/VSMC-specific NOX1 knockout mice, or vascular endothelial-speicifc NOX1 knockin mice were exposed to high-fat diet feeding prior to phenotypical analyses of obesity and metabolic syndrome, as well as of exercise capacity, skeletal muscle mitochondrial function, and novel genetic signatures.Expression of NOX1 was significantly upregulated in wild-type mice fed a high-fat diet. Global knockout of NOX1 (NOX1-/y), rather than of NOX2/NOX4, markedly abrogated high-fat feeding-induced body weight/fat mass gain, preadipocyte differentiation, fatty liver, glucose intolerance, and insulin/leptin resistance. Intriguingly, endothelial-specific NOX1 knockout (Cdh5cre [cadherin 5 (vascular endothelial cadherin) promoter-driven Cre recombinase (endothelial-specific Cre expression)]-NOX1CKO), rather than vascular smooth muscle-specific NOX1 knockout (Myh11cre [myosin heavy chain 11 promoter-driven Cre recombinase (smooth muscle-specific Cre expression)]-NOX1CKO), substantially alleviated obesity and metabolic syndrome. Consistently, endothelial-specific NOX1 knockin mice (Cdh5cre-NOX1CKI) fed a high-fat diet displayed exaggerated metabolic disorders. Endothelial cell-specific knockout/knockin of NOX1 was confirmed using endothelial cell washout experiments. Food/water intakes were not different from corresponding controls in high-fat fed NOX1-/y, Cdh5cre-NOX1CKO, or Cdh5cre-NOX1CKI mice, indicating no difference in energy intake. Instead, spontaneous activity, exercise capacity, mitochondrial oxygen consumption/ATP production, skeletal muscle mitochondrial function (ROS production and swelling activity), and mitochondrial cristae structure were all substantially improved in NOX1-/y or Cdh5cre-NOX1CKO mice, indicating augmented energy expenditure attributed to preserved skeletal muscle mitochondrial function. Supportively, Cdh5cre-NOX1CKI mice displayed deteriorated exercise capacity and skeletal muscle mitochondrial dysfunction. Endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation was restored in high-fat fed NOX1-/y or Cdh5cre-NOX1CKO mice, confirming improved endothelial function. RNA-sequencing identified 4 genes (Cntnap4 [contactin-associated protein-like 4], Sgsm1, Tll2, and Syt9) and 7 genes (Odf3l2, Col9a1 [collagen type IX alpha 1 chain], Cldn23, Atp5g2, Nkx6-3, Ntsr2, and Zfp69) significantly downregulated/upregulated in high-fat fed Cdh5cre-NOX1CKO mice, among which Cntnap4 and Col9a1 linked to muscular disorders. Importantly, we observed marked upregulation of NOX1 in isolated coronary arteries from human patients with obesity.Taken together, our data for the first time establish a novel and paradigm-shifting concept that endothelial NOX1 drives systematic metabolic phenotypes, via impairment in skeletal muscle mitochondrial dysfunction with novel genetic signatures. Tissue-specific targeting of endothelial NOX1 and novel candidate genes may prove to be robustly effective in treating obesity and metabolic syndrome.
Cadherin-5 (CDH5), also known as vascular endothelial cadherin (VE-cadherin), plays crucial roles in endothelial cell adhesion, vascular barrier function, and signaling. CDH5 manages endothelial cell-cell junctions during vascular remodeling, which is vital for both vascular homeostasis and adaptive responses to pathological stimuli. Although anti-CDH5 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) are used for specific applications such as flow cytometry, Western blotting, and immunohistochemistry (IHC), highly sensitive and versatile anti-CDH5 mAbs suitable for all these applications remain limited. Here, new anti-human CDH5 mAbs, called Ca5Mabs, were developed through a flow cytometry-based high-throughput screening. Among them, clone Ca5Mab-8 (mouse IgG2a, kappa) recognized CDH5-overexpressed Chinese hamster ovary-K1 (CHO/CDH5) cells in flow cytometry. Moreover, Ca5Mab-8 also recognized endogenous CDH5-expressing human endothelial cell lines (HUVEC/TERT2 and HDMVEC/TERT164-B) and a cervical cancer cell line (HeLa). These reactivities exceeded those of a commercial anti-CDH5 mAb (clone BV9). The apparent dissociation constant of Ca5Mab-8 for CHO/CDH5 was measured as 6.1 × 10-9 M. Ca5Mab-8 can detect endogenous CDH5 in Western blotting. In addition, Ca5Mab-8, but not BV9, can be used for IHC to detect endothelial cells in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissues. These findings suggest that Ca5Mab-8 is a versatile basic research tool in vascular biology and has potential for clinical applications including tumor diagnosis and therapy.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41954002
Emerging evidence suggests autoimmune diseases (AIDs) are associated with atrial fibrillation (AF) through systemic inflammation. However, causal mechanisms and potential protein mediators remain unexplored.To identify proteins mediating the link between AIDs and incident AF using high-dimensional mediation analysis.This study used UK Biobank data with proteomic profiling (Olink platform). Participants without prevalent AF were grouped into musculoskeletal (MSK), vasculitis, gastrointestinal (GI), neurologic, and rheumatic fever subsets. Fine-Gray models identified AID-AF associations, treating non-cardiovascular death as a competing risk. Two separate Proteome-wide association studies (PWAS) identified proteins linked to AIDs and incident AF, respectively. All models adjusted for age, sex, lipids, BMI, smoking, hypertension, diabetes, coronary artery disease, peripheral vascular disease, stroke, and heart failure. Proteins associated with both AIDs and AF were selected for high-dimensional mediation analysis (HIMA).Among 419,888 participants (median age 58 years, 45.7% male) followed for a median 14.4 years, MSK, vasculitis, GI, and rheumatic fever AIDs significantly increased incident AF risk (HR 1.17, 1.39, 1.17, and 1.46, respectively; P<0.001), but not neurologic AID (P=0.13). In 44,872 participants with proteomic data, HIMA of 232 proteins identified 60 unique mediators, with adrenomedullin, soluble urokinase plasminogen activator receptor, and insulin-like growth factor binding protein 2 shared across multiple AID groups.The identification of protein biomarkers that may help elucidate potential pathways between AID and AF provides mechanistic insights into immune-related atrial remodeling and suggests possible therapeutic targets for AF prevention and risk stratification in AID patients.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Childhood adversity (CA) is associated with cardiovascular disease (CVD). Proteomic profiling may help elucidate underlying mechanisms. This study aimed to explore how CA and genetic risk jointly impact CVD and the potential role of proteomic biomarkers.A total of 14 508 participants without baseline CVD and with available proteomics data from the UK Biobank were included. CA was assessed using the Childhood Trauma Screener questionnaire. Proteomic signatures were derived using least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression. Cox proportional hazard models were used to examine the associations of CA with CVD, and mediation analyses were conducted to assess the extent to which proteomic biomarkers explained these associations.Over a median follow-up of 13.5 years, 2286 incident CVD events were identified. The per-score increase in CA score was associated with all-cause and cause-specific CVD, with hazard ratios (HRs) for all-cause CVD, coronary heart disease, arrhythmia/conduction disorder, and heart failure being 1.049 (95% CI, 1.031-1.068), 1.039 (95% CI, 1.009-1.070), 1.041 (95% CI, 1.015-1.067), and 1.066 (95% CI, 1.012-1.122), respectively. No significant interaction between CA and genetic risk was observed. Participants with both high CA and high genetic risk had the highest all-cause CVD risk (HR, 1.847 [95% CI, 1.380-2.472]). Several proteins (pro-adrenomedullin, agrin, AHNAK, CD302, CD83, and yes-associated protein 1) explained 1.58% to 9.98% of the associations between CA and all-cause and cause-specific CVD. Proteomic signatures statistically mediated 3.68% to 10.80% of these associations.CA and genetic susceptibility jointly contributed to increased CVD risk. Proteomic biomarkers partially mediate the CA-CVD associations, providing insight into biological pathways linking early-life adversity and CVD.
To explore the association between perioperative bioactive adrenomedullin (bioADM) and early postoperative organ dysfunction after major hepatic resection, using the Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score as a measure of organ dysfunction severity.This prospective, observational single-center study included 17 patients undergoing major hepatic resection between January and June 2023. BioADM was measured preoperatively and on postoperative days (POD) 1, 2, 3, and 5. Associations with SOFA were assessed using Spearman's rank correlation. Secondary exploratory analyses evaluated organ-specific and overall postoperative outcomes.Perioperative bioADM was associated with postoperative organ dysfunction severity as reflected by SOFA. Correlations were weak at baseline and POD1 but became moderate to strong from POD2 onward, including POD2 (ρ = 0.74, p = 0.001), POD3 (ρ = 0.64, p = 0.012), and POD5 (ρ = 0.67, p = 0.008). Exploratory secondary analyses suggested associations with vasopressor requirement and renal deterioration, particularly dialysis requirement. In contrast, bioADM showed no consistent association with major complications, Clavien-Dindo grade, 30-day Comprehensive Complication Index, or 30-day mortality.In this small exploratory cohort (n = 17), perioperative bioADM was associated with early postoperative organ dysfunction after major hepatic resection, particularly from POD2 onward, but not with broader measures of postoperative morbidity or short-term mortality. Given the limited sample size and low number of events, these findings are hypothesis-generating and require validation in larger prospective cohorts before any conclusions regarding clinical utility can be drawn.© 2026. The Author(s).
Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory autoimmune skin disease for which no standardised and reliable molecular biomarkers of disease course or activity are currently available. Here, we aimed to identify serum biomarkers of psoriasis. Serum samples from 40 patients with psoriasis and 40 healthy volunteers were analysed using ELISA and Proximity Extension Assay proteomics. ELISA revealed significantly increased serum levels of AGO2 and APOA1 in psoriatic patients versus controls, with a strong association between APOA1 and psoriasis (OR = 20.72, 95% CI of 4.57-93.87, p = 0.000137). Targeted serum proteomics additionally identified 35 differentially expressed proteins, including well-known psoriasis drivers (e.g., top upregulated IL17A and SERPINB4). The most downregulated was adrenomedullin (ADM, FC = -10.12). For 14 altered proteins, no previous direct associations with psoriasis were reported. Among them, DEFB103A_DEFB103B and DSG3 showed the best discrimination between psoriasis and control samples, while SERPINB4 correlated with psoriasis severity. APOA1, DEFB103A_DEFB103B, and DSG3 emerge as novel candidate circulating psoriasis biomarkers, and SERPINB4 as a biomarker of psoriasis severity. The functional role of DSG3 and other newly identified proteins (ACRV1, HAO1, ADH4, GPD1, GFER, PTGES2, DSG3, AFAP1L1, GALNT3, RASGRP2, MAP2K6, LXN, NBEAL2, and VPS54) in psoriasis requires further studies.
Circulating Dipeptidyl Peptidase 3 (DPP3) hydrolyses dipeptides from the amino terminus of its substrates and excess levels represent a target for the treatment of cardiogenic shock. Known substrates include Angiotensin II (Ang II), but there might be more. Adrenomedullin (ADM) is a 52-mer peptide regulating vascular tone and integrity, which also is a therapeutic target for the treatment of shock. The pathways leading to shock involving DPP3 and ADM have been considered independent so far. Here, we assessed the influence of ADM on the activity of DPP3 in vitro using an established assay. ADM inhibited DPP3 activity at a similar IC50 concentration (6.5 µM) as the cognate substrate Ang II (6.6 µM). As opposed to Ang II, ADM was barely cleaved by DPP3 in vitro. Stepwise C-terminal truncation of ADM essentially did not change its inhibitory effect. Inhibition of DPP3 activity by ADM was reversed by an anti-N-terminal ADM antibody.
Acute organ dysfunction is a primary driver of ICU mortality. As clinical scores often act as lagging indicators, early recognition of subclinical endothelial stress may be essential for timely intervention. This exploratory study investigated the association of mid-regional pro-adrenomedullin (MR-proADM)-a stable surrogate of the hormone adrenomedullin-as a potential early indicator of early organ failure.This retrospective, single-center study analyzed a heterogeneous cohort of 26 critically ill patients. Plasma MR-proADM levels were assessed at admission (t0) and daily for 5 days. The primary outcome was the correlation between admission MR-proADM and the 24-h SOFA score. Secondary outcomes included comparisons between septic and non-septic patients and between survivors and non-survivors.Admission MR-proADM showed a moderate correlation with the 24-h SOFA score (rho = 0.488; p = 0.021), with the most prominent associations observed within the cardiovascular and renal SOFA domains. In the septic subgroup, MR-proADM levels were higher than in non-septic patients (10.90 [IQR 5.91-19.00] vs. 1.30 [IQR 0.74-2.53] nmol/L, p < 0.001); ROC analysis yielded an AUC of 0.88 (95% CI 0.73-1.00; p < 0.001), although this estimate should be interpreted descriptively given the small number of septic cases. Despite the low number of mortality events (n = 4), higher admission MR-proADM values were observed in non-survivors than in survivors, although this finding remains preliminary. Furthermore, admission MR-proADM levels showed positive correlations with procalcitonin at each individual timepoint during the first five ICU days (p < 0.001 at each timepoint).Within the limits of this small cohort, MR-proADM might provide a biological window into incipient organ dysfunction. Its possible role in supporting clinical assessment of sepsis and risk stratification-particularly regarding hemodynamic and renal dysfunction-remains strictly hypothesis-generating and requires validation in larger, prospective multicenter studies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42418867 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42336497 is a review article
Adrenomedullin (ADM) is a peptide hormone with a broad spectrum of actions on vascular smooth muscle, endothelial cells, and immune cells. These ADM cellular targets are prominent constituents of the uterine-placental interface that undergo structural and functional transformation during pregnancy. To explore the biology of ADM at the uterine-placental interface, we examined ADM expression using in situ hybridization and generated and characterized an ADM mutant rat model using CRISPR-Cas9-mediated genome editing. At midgestation, Adm was prominently expressed in trophoblast giant cells. Adm expression shifted to the mesometrial uterus as gestation progressed. A germline Adm mutant model was generated. Adm heterozygous males and females were fertile; however, Adm heterozygous intercrosses did not generate live Adm null rats. Adm null fetal-placental sites were viable until gestation day (gd) 15.5. Viable null fetuses were not identified after gd 15.5. Fetal and placental growth restriction were evident on gd 13.5. On gd 15.5 some Adm null placentas exhibited prominent hemorrhagic regions, whereas both hemorrhage and edema were evident in gd 15.5 Adm null fetuses. Our results indicate that ADM serves as a regulator of placental and fetal development.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
ObjectiveEndothelial dysfunction is a key pathological process in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases. Herein, we aimed to investigate the effect of homocysteine on endoplasmic reticulum stress in a model of endothelial dysfunction, focusing on glucose-regulated protein 78 mediation by homocysteine.MethodsWe established a hyperhomocysteinemia model in mice to examine the effect of homocysteine on cerebral microcirculation. In vitro, endothelial cells were used to explore the effect of homocysteine on endoplasmic reticulum stress. We conducted a bioinformatics study to investigate the impact of homocysteine on the vascular microenvironment. Furthermore, molecular dynamics simulation analysis was performed to explore the binding mode and stability between homocysteine and glucose-regulated protein 78.ResultsIn vivo, homocysteine increased the expression of vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 and intercellular adhesion molecule 1 in brain tissue, whereas reducing the expression of tight junction protein 1. Furthermore, inhibition of endoplasmic reticulum stress effectively improved endothelial dysfunction induced by homocysteine. Finally, molecular dynamics simulations revealed a critical interaction between homocysteine and glucose-regulated protein 78, which likely impacts binding affinity.ConclusionsHomocysteine causes cerebral microcirculatory disorders. The mechanism is related to homocysteine-induced endoplasmic reticulum stress through regulation of glucose-regulated protein 78 protein function.
Polygonum multiflorum Thunb. (PM) can induce hepatotoxicity, particularly with prolonged use. Traditional processing methods, notably steaming (SPM) and steaming with black bean decoction (PPM), are recognized for their ability to mitigate this toxicity; however, the underlying mechanisms, especially from the gut-liver axis perspective, remain poorly understood.This study aims to clarify the mechanism by which processing reduces PM-induced hepatotoxicity, with a particular focus on the regulation of the gut-liver axis.We employed a comprehensive approach integrating histopathological examination, multi-omics analyses (including 16S rRNA sequencing, transcriptomics, and metabolomics), and molecular analysis to investigate the distinct effects of PM, SPM, and PPM in a mouse model.PM caused significant liver injury, characterized by elevated serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) levels and severe pathological damage. This damage was marked by intestinal barrier disruption (decreased tight junction protein-1 (ZO-1) and occludin), systemic inflammation (elevated tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) levels), and activation of the hepatic nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) pathway. Multi-omics analysis revealed that PM induced severe GM dysbiosis (e.g., reduction in the Lactobacillus and a significant increase in the unclassified_f_Oscillospiraceae), a marked decrease in short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) (e.g., a 72% reduction in butyrate), and disruption of the hepatic bile acid profile. Notably, the two processed products, particularly PPM, significantly reversed these alterations. Compared to the PM group, PPM treatment reduced serum ALT by 82% and exerted extensive protective effects. It restored beneficial bacteria, increased SCFAs levels, normalized bile acid metabolism, and suppressed the hepatic fibrogenic/NF-κB inflammatory axis. This detoxifying effect may be associated with reduced systemic exposure to toxic stilbene glycosides and anthraquinones in the processed PM groups compared to the PM group.This study suggests that processing, particularly with black bean decoction (PPM), can alleviate PM-induced hepatotoxicity by reshaping the GM, restoring its metabolic products (SCFAs), normalizing bile acid signaling, and downregulating the FXR/NF-κB inflammatory axis within the gut-liver axis. These findings provide a mechanistic basis for the clinical preference for processed PM products and highlight the importance of stringent quality control, while also underscoring that residual risk may persist, particularly in susceptible populations.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Polyphyllin II, a natural steroidal saponin extracted from Paris polyphylla, exhibits potent antitumor activity in thyroid cancer. In the present study, bioinformatics analysis, molecular docking, Drug Affinity Responsive Target Stability assay, Cell Counting Kit‑8 assay, flow cytometry, Transwell assay, wound‑healing assay, reverse transcription‑quantitative PCR, western blotting and xenograft experiments were performed to investigate the antitumor effects and molecular mechanism of polyphyllin II in thyroid cancer. Polyphyllin II significantly inhibited cell proliferation, migration and invasion, while inducing apoptosis more prominently in TPC‑1 cells and causing cell cycle arrest in both TPC‑1 and 8305C cells. By using integrated bioinformatics screening and experimental validation, histamine receptor H1 (HRH1) was identified as a key oncogenic target that is highly expressed in thyroid cancer and contributes to malignant progression. With regard to its mechanism of action, polyphyllin II suppressed HRH1‑mediated activation of the Wnt/β‑catenin signaling pathway, reduced β‑catenin nuclear accumulation and downregulated the expression levels of downstream pathway‑related genes. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that polyphyllin II attenuates thyroid cancer progression by targeting HRH1 and blocking Wnt/β‑catenin signaling, highlighting its potential as a promising candidate for targeted therapy.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42494121 is a review article
Breastfeeding anchors infant immunity and long-term health, but its benefits are threatened by Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) mastitis, an increasingly prevalent condition driven by antimicrobial resistance and therapeutic limitations. Beyond compromising maternal wellness, mastitis threatens the safety and continuity of breast milk, highlighting a critical need for innovative intervention strategies. Herein, we demonstrated that α‑ketobutyrate (α-KB), a metabolite of the transsulfuration pathway, mitigated S. aureus‑induced inflammation, oxidative stress, and blood-milk barrier (BMB) disruption both in vivo and in vitro. α‑KB enhanced macroautophagic/autophagic responses, marked by increased ATG5, BECN1 (beclin 1), and LC3-II:LC3-I conversion and reduced SQSTM1/p62, through a RIPK1-lactate-TFEB axis. Specifically, it directly bound and stabilized RIPK1, elevated lactate production, and drove TFEB nuclear translocation to activate macroautophagy/autophagy and promote intracellular bacterial clearance. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations suggested stable α‑KB and RIPK1 binding via hydrophobic and hydrogen bond interactions; RIPK1 knockout abolished α‑KB-induced autophagy and lactate generation, effects rescued by lactate supplementation. This study identifies a novel immunometabolic circuit linking a metabolite to RIPK1-lactate-TFEB-mediated autophagy, offering therapeutic potential against antibiotic‑resistant S. aureus mastitis and presenting a new paradigm for safeguarding breastfeeding quality and infant health.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; α-KB: α‑ketobutyrate; ATG5: autophagy related 5; BMB: blood-milk barrier; CETSA: cellular thermal shift assay; DARTS: drug affinity responsive target stability; IL1B: interleukin 1 beta; IL6: interleukin 6; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MST: microscale thermophoresis; NOS2: nitric oxide synthase 2; OCLN: occludin; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PTGS2: prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2; Rapa: rapamycin; RIPK1: receptor interacting serine/threonine kinase 1; RT-PCR: real-time polymerasechain reaction;S. aureus:Staphylococcus aureus; SEM: standard error of the mean; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TFEB: transcription factor EB; TJP1: tight junction protein 1; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; WT: wild-type.
Retinal degenerative diseases are a leading cause of irreversible blindness. Their pathogenesis is intricately linked to oxidative stress-induced dysfunction of retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells and subsequent retinal degeneration. Macroautophagy/autophagy, a critical cellular degradation pathway, plays a vital role in maintaining RPE homeostasis, yet its dysregulation in retinal degenerative diseases remains poorly understood. In this study, we observed that sodium iodate (NaIO3), an oxidative stress inducer, triggered lysosomal dysfunction via lysosomal membrane permeabilization (LMP), thereby impairing autophagic flux in RPE cells and exacerbating retinal degeneration. RNA sequencing identified LAMP3 (lysosomal-associated membrane protein 3) as a downregulated gene following NaIO3 treatment. Functionally, LAMP3 overexpression alleviated NaIO3-induced LMP, improved lysosomal function, and alleviated autophagic impairment. Furthermore, upregulation of LAMP3 reduced oxidative stress and apoptosis in RPE cells, while alleviating retinal degeneration in a NaIO3-induced mouse model. Mechanistically, our data suggested that NaIO3 upregulated the transcription factor SNAI1, which acts as a transcriptional repressor of LAMP3. SNAI1 knockdown increased LAMP3 expression, thereby facilitating the recovery of lysosomal function and the alleviation of autophagic impairment. Collectively, our findings indicate that the SNAI1-LAMP3 axis contributes to the regulation of the autophagy-lysosomal pathway in retinal degeneration, highlighting a potential therapeutic target for delaying disease progression.Abbreviations: AMD: age-related macular degeneration; AO: acridine orange; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; BAX: BCL2-associated X protein; BCL2: B cell leukemia/lymphoma 2; BSA: bovine serum albumin; CCK-8: cell counting kit-8; ChIP: chromatin immunoprecipitation; CM-H2DCFDA: chloromethyl-2',7'-dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate; CTSD: cathepsin D; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DEGs: differentially expressed genes; DHE: dihydroethidium; EdU: 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine; ERG: electroretinography; GSEA: gene set enrichment analysis; H&E: hematoxylin and eosin; HsRPE: human primary retinal pigment epithelial; JC-1: 5,5',6,6'-tetrachloro-1,1',3,3'-tetraethylbenzimidazolylcarbocyanine iodide; LAMP1: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1; LAMP2: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 2; LAMP3: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 3; LGALS3: lectin, galactose binding, soluble 3; LLOMe: leu-leu methyl ester; LMP: lysosomal membrane permeabilization; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MMP: mitochondrial membrane potential; NAC: N-acetyl-L-cysteine; NaIO3: sodium iodte; NC: negative control; OCT: optical coherence tomography; PCA: principal component analysis; PI: propidium iodide; qRT-PCR: quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction; Rapa: rapamycin; ROS: reactive oxygen species; RP: retinitis pigmentosa; RPE: retinal pigment epithelium; RPE65: retinal pigment epithelium 65; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SNAI1: snail family zinc finger 1; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TJP1/ZO-1: tight junction protein 1; ZNF135: zinc finger protein 135.
Monocyte-derived macrophages play a significant role in the initiation and progression of atherosclerosis by transforming into lipid-laden foam cells and regulating vascular inflammation. However, the molecular mechanisms that regulate macrophage lipid accumulation, phenotype, efferocytic capacity, and atherosclerosis are incompletely understood. Our preliminary studies revealed increased expression of LGR4 (leucine-rich repeat-containing G protein-coupled receptor 4) in human atherosclerotic arteries. Additional experiments demonstrated increased LGR4 levels in atherogenic oxidized low-density lipoprotein-treated macrophages. However, the macrophage-specific role of LGR4 in atherogenesis has never been investigated.To investigate the role of myeloid cell Lgr4 in atherosclerosis development, myeloid cell-specific Lgr4 knockout (Lgr4f/fLysM Cre+/-, Lgr4ΔM) and littermate control Lgr4f/f (Lgr4WT) mice were injected intraperitoneally with adeno-associated viral vector (serotype 8) for hPCSK9 and fed a Western diet for 16 weeks. Various in vitro cell-based assays, molecular biology techniques, and immunohistological approaches were used to evaluate the functional roles of macrophage Lgr4 and underlying signaling mechanisms.Oil red O staining of whole aortas and aortic root sections demonstrated reduced atherosclerosis in Lgr4ΔM mice compared with sex-matched Lgr4WT mice. However, no changes in circulating monocyte frequencies were detected. Histochemical staining performed on aortic root sections revealed smaller necrotic cores and higher collagen content in Lgr4ΔM mice. Additionally, Lgr4ΔM mice exhibited lower fat mass and blood glucose levels, while plasma total cholesterol was comparable to that of control mice. Further in vitro and ex vivo studies demonstrated reduced lipid accumulation, enhanced efferocytic capacity, a suppressed proinflammatory phenotype, and attenuated expression of different low-density lipoprotein uptake genes in Lgr4-deficient macrophages. Moreover, Lgr4 knockout macrophages displayed increased cholesterol efflux capacity and reduced activation of oxidized low-density lipoprotein-induced Wnt (Wingless-related integration site)/β-catenin signaling.These findings suggest that myeloid cell Lgr4 contributes to atherosclerotic lesion formation via stimulating macrophage lipid accumulation, impairing efferocytic capacity, and promoting a proinflammatory phenotype. Collectively, these results identify macrophage LGR4 as a novel therapeutic target for atherosclerosis.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a highly lethal malignancy with a dismal prognosis, characterized by an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment and rapid development of chemoresistance. The present study investigated the histamine receptor H1 (HRH1), a G protein-coupled receptor, and its functional interplay with the transcriptional coactivator YAP1, a known driver of PDAC progression. Through integrated multi-omics analysis of data from TCGA, ICGC and GEO cohorts, the present study found that HRH1 was consistently overexpressed in PDAC, and its expression correlated with poor prognosis. Mendelian randomization analysis further suggested a causal relationship between the use of fexofenadine, an HRH1 antagonist, and a reduced risk of PDAC. Mechanistically, the present study identified a positive feedback loop in which HRH1 stabilizes and activates YAP1 signaling, while YAP1 knockdown downregulates HRH1 transcription, potentially through direct binding to the HRH1 promoter region. The present study constructed a prognostic model based on the HRH1-YAP1 axis by integrating a panel of 101 machine learning algorithms. The model, which includes HRH1, YAP1, ECT2, ITGB5, SHCBP1, MAML2, YWHAZ and ITGA2, effectively stratified patients into groups with differential risk. Patients in the high-risk group exhibited characteristics associated with worse outcomes, including KRAS mutations, chemoresistance, an immunosuppressive microenvironment and reduced responsiveness to immunotherapy. The present study establishes HRH1 as a novel therapeutic target in PDAC and proposes the repurposing of fexofenadine as a promising strategy to disrupt the oncogenic HRH1-YAP1 feedback loop.Copyright: © 2026 Chen and Wen.
Can oocyte maturation be adapted to a phenotypic assay within a drug screening pipeline to identify compounds that block meiotic progression for female non-hormonal contraceptive drug discovery?A complex phenotypic assay of mouse oocyte maturation identifies potent compounds that reversibly block meiotic progression at specific stages.During oocyte maturation, prophase I-arrested oocytes resume meiosis, undergo germinal vesicle (GV) breakdown, and complete meiosis I with extrusion of the first polar body. Oocyte maturation is critical for generating a fertilizable gamete, and thus, blocking meiotic progression is a promising target for non-hormonal contraception. Moreover, this process can be recapitulated in vitro, providing a powerful phenotypic assay for drug screening.Oocytes were collected from CD-1 mice following hyperstimulation and in vitro matured for 14-16 h in the presence of a single dose (10 µM) of compounds from a bioactive compound library. Incubation in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) only or 10 µM milrinone, a known phosphodiesterase 3A (PDE3A) inhibitor, was used as vehicle and positive control, respectively. Primary screening and subsequent concentration-response testing were performed in duplicate.Oocytes were incubated with compounds during IVM to identify compounds with inhibitory effects on meiotic progression. We were specifically interested in compounds that maintained arrest at prophase of meiosis I (GV-intact) or prevented extrusion of the first polar body. Brightfield images were taken before and after IVM to assess maturation status based on morphological criteria. Using this platform, we screened a subset of 818 compounds from the compound library based on annotated target and structural diversity. A hit was defined as a compound that inhibited meiotic progression by ≥80%. Hits were validated through an independent source of compound and concentration responsiveness. Hit compounds were also tested in a prolonged culture treatment to confirm maintenance of meiotic arrest. A counterscreen assay was performed on compounds that maintained arrest at prophase of meiosis I to rule out phenotypes due to inhibition of PDE3A activity.From our primary screen, 29 hits were identified that blocked meiotic maturation. Following hit validation via independent sources and concentration-response, 18 compounds were confirmed. Five compounds resulted in arrest at prophase of meiosis I, but only one was not based on PDE3A inhibition. Thirteen compounds enabled resumption of meiosis but not polar body extrusion, and 12 of these maintained arrest during prolonged culture. Thus, using this screening pipeline, we identified a total of 13 compounds for an overall confirmed hit rate of 1.6%. Using this phenotypic assay, we also compared the activity of structural analogs, enabling the establishment of preliminary structure-activity relationships. Additionally, washout of compound-treated oocytes allowed for normal meiotic resumption in 33% and 50% of oocytes arrested at GV and GV breakdown stages, respectively, demonstrating the potential for reversibility.N/A.Although this screening platform can identify potent compounds, their protein targets and potential mechanisms of action are unknown. As such, further studies are required to deconvolute targets and generate more specific compounds. Given that our phenotypic oocyte screening assay is based on the mouse model, validation using human oocytes will also be necessary for translational consideration. Lastly, all experiments were conducted on denuded oocytes and do not account for activity within an intact cumulus-oocyte complex.Through our screening pipeline, we identified compounds that potently inhibit meiotic progression. Beyond furthering our understanding of oocyte maturation, we highlight potent compounds as promising starting points toward novel drug candidates or in novel target identification for female non-hormonal contraception.This work was supported by the Gates Foundation [INV-003385]. Under the grant conditions of the Foundation, a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 Generic License has already been assigned to the Author Accepted Manuscript version that might arise from this submission. The authors have no conflict of interest to disclose.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a highly lethal liver cancer with complex pathogenesis intertwined with metabolic and mitochondrial dysfunction. MEN1/menin is a protein with context-dependent functions in liver diseases. While MEN1 has been linked to HCC progression and mitochondrial homeostasis, its precise regulatory mechanism in these processes remains incompletely understood. Here, we report that MEN1 localizes to the outer mitochondrial membrane (OMM) in HCC cells, which is mediated by its N-terminal mitochondrial targeting sequence and the TOMM20 translocase complex. In a genetically engineered DEN- and CCl4-induced HCC mouse model, hepatocyte-specific men1 deficiency significantly suppressed tumorigenesis, a phenotype associated with impaired mitochondrial homeostasis. Mechanistically, MEN1 deficiency disrupted mitochondrial function by manifesting as promoted mitochondrial fission, impaired oxidative phosphorylation, reduced ATP levels, and elevated reactive oxygen species during energy stress. Critically, MEN1 loss inhibited mitophagy via downregulating the PINK1-PRKN/Parkin pathway, which impaired clearance of dysfunctional mitochondria and promotes their cytotoxic accumulation. Moreover, MEN1 expression was upregulated in human HCC tissues, correlated with poor clinical outcomes and was positively associated with autophagy signatures. Notably, pharmacological activation of mitophagy reversed the tumor-suppressive effects of MEN1 deficiency in vitro and in vivo. These findings identified a noncanonical role of mitochondrial MEN1 in driving HCC progression via regulating mitophagy homeostasis, and highlight the MEN1-mitophagy axis as a potential therapeutic target for HCC.Abbreviations: Alb-Cre: albumin promoter-driven recombinase Cre; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; CCCP: carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl hydrazone; CCl4: carbon tetrachloride; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; DEN: diethylnitrosamine; DNM1L: dynamin 1 like; DQ-BSA: self-quenched BODIPY-conjugated bovine serum albumin; Gal: galactose; GOT1/AST: glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1; GPT/ALT: glutamic-pyruvic transaminase; HCC: hepatocellular carcinoma; WT: wild type; HMKO: hepatocyte-specific men1 knockout; IF: immunofluorescence; IHC: immunohistochemistry; IMM: inner mitochondrial membrane; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; MEFs: mouse embryonic fibroblasts; MEN1-FL: full-length MEN1; MFF: mitochondrial fission factor; MFN1: mitofusin 1; MTS: mitochondrial targeting sequence; OCR: oxygen consumption rate; OMM: outer mitochondrial membrane; OXPHOS: oxidative phosphorylation; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase1; PRKAA1: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; qPCR: RNA extraction and quantitative polymerase chain reaction; RNA-seq: RNA-sequencing; ROS: reactive oxygen species; shMEN1: small hairpin RNA-mediated MEN1 knockdown; TCGA: The Cancer Genome Atlas; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic systemic autoimmune disease characterized by persistent synovial inflammation and progressive joint destruction. Numerous clinical studies have revealed that exercise is extremely beneficial for the outcome of RA. However, the underlying mechanism remains poorly understood. In the present study, we investigated the therapeutic efficacy of irisin, an exercise hormone, on K/BxN serum and collagen-induced arthritis (CIA), two well established mouse models for RA research. Mechanistically, irisin interacted with ITGAV (integrin subunit alpha V) and ITGB5 (integrin subunit beta 5) to activate mitophagy and remove leaked mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and reactive oxygen species (ROS), which suppressed the activation of NLRP3 (NLR family pyrin domain containing 3) inflammasome and then hindered the pathological process of experimental arthritis. Notably, the beneficial effects of irisin on the treatment of experimental arthritis were significantly abolished in mice with atg5 (autophagy related 5) conditional knockout in myeloid cells (atg5fl/flLyz2). Our study elucidated the underlying mechanism through which exercise alleviated experimental arthritis and offered a feasible therapeutic strategy for RA.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine Ac-TUBA: acetylated TUBA; ACP5: acid phosphatase 5, tartrate resistant; AIM2: absent in melanoma 2; ANOVA: analysis of variance; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; BAF: bafilomycin A1; BV:TV: bone volume per total volume; BMD: bone mineral density; BMDMs: bone marrow-derived macrophages; CASP1: caspase 1; CTSB: cathepsin B; CIA: collagen-indcued arthritis; DNM1L: dynamin 1 like; CYCS: cytochrome c, somatic; EtBr: ethidium bromide; FNDC5: fibronectin type III domain containing 5; FL-GSDMD: GSDMD full length; GSDMD: gasdermin D; HE: hematoxylin and eosin; iBMDMs: immortalized bone marrow-derived macrophages; IL1B: interleukin 1 beta; IL6: interleukin 6; IL18: interleukin 18; LDH: lactate dehydrogenase; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MSU: monosodium urate; mtROS: mitochondrial reactive oxygen species; mtDNA: mitochondrial DNA; NLRC4: NLR family CARD domain containing 4; NLRP1: NLR family pyrin domain containing 1; NLRP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; NT-GSDMD: GSDMD N-terminal fragment; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; ox-mtDNA: oxidized mitochondrial DNA; PYCARD: PYD and CARD domain containing; PRKAA: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; RA: rheumatoid arthritis; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SD: standard deviation; SiO2: silicon dioxide; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; Tb.Th: trabecular thickness; Tb.N: trabecular number; Tp.Sp: trabecular separation; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; TUBA: tubulin alpha; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; WT: wild type.
Diabetes mellitus is a chronic metabolic disorder characterized by hyperglycemia and pancreatic β-cell dysfunction. The ATP-sensitive potassium KATP channel, regulated by ATP-binding cassette subfamily C member 8 (ABCC8/SUR1), plays a pivotal role in insulin secretion, and its dysregulation is associated with neonatal and type 2 diabetes. In this study, we employed an integrated computational framework to explore the structural, regulatory, and ligand-interaction landscape of ABCC8. Transcriptomic analysis of publicly available datasets (GSE41762, GSE25724) indicated significant upregulation of ABCC8 in diabetic samples (q-values: 0.09597 and 0.04781), suggesting a potential compensatory response to hyperglycemia. Structural analyses identified conserved ATP-binding motifs and a predicted disordered region (residues 621-676), which may influence channel gating and interaction dynamics. In silico virtual screening of FDA-approved sulfonylureas and Nigella sativa derived bioactive compounds revealed favorable predicted binding affinities toward ABCC8. Selected N. sativa compounds exhibited docking scores ranging from -4.1 to -9.7 kcal/mol, comparable to those of sulfonylureas (-8.2 to -3.6 kcal/mol). Molecular dynamics simulations further suggested stable protein-ligand complexes based on RMSD, radius of gyration, and solvent-accessible surface area profiles. Pathway enrichment and predictive miRNA analyses implicated ABCC8 in insulin secretion, K ATPchannel regulation, and metabolic signaling pathways, with miR-375 and miR-29 predicted to be involved in ABCC8 regulation. Overall, this study provides computational and predictive insights into ABCC8 structure, regulation, and ligand interactions, highlighting candidate molecules for further investigation. Experimental validation is required to confirm these findings and to evaluate their translational relevance for diabetes management.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Bilirubin-induced brain damage represents a serious clinical consequence of hyperbilirubinemia, yet the role and underlying molecular mechanisms of autophagy the remain largely elusive. Here, we demonstrate that, for the first time, N6-methyladenosine (m6A) demethylase AlkB homolog 5 (ALKBH5) mediated dysregulated autophagic flux contributes to bilirubin-induced neurotoxicity. Hyperdifferential differentiated PC12 cells and neonatal Sprague-Dawley rats were employed as in vitro and in vivo models, respectively. In vivo experiments first showed a dysregulated autophagy and neuronal damage in hyperbilirubinemia. In vitro further experiments observed that bilirubin exposure inhibited autophagy as illustrated by the downregulated p62 and LC3-II protein expression and transmission electron microscopy results. Furthermore, we found that the autophagic flux impairment was due to the inhibition of initial stage following bilirubin exposure, which was pharmacologically validated using rapamycin and bafilomycin A1 and up-regulated protein expression of p-mTOR and BCL2. More importantly, we found that ALKBH5 overexpression can exacerbate bilirubin-induced autophagic flux damage, whereas ALKBH5 knockdown attenuated the inhibited autophagic flux damage. Mechanistically, Vacuole membrane protein 1 (VMP1), Ras-related GTP-binding protein C (RRAGC), and protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1 (PRKAA1) were identified as the target genes of ALKBH5 to impair autophagic flux with mRNA stability assay, RT-PCR analysis, and bioinfomatic analysis, thereby promoting bilirubin-induced neurotoxicity. Collectively, our findings reveal that ALKBH5 participates in bilirubin-induced autophagic flux impairment, and propose m6A-dependent autophagy as a potential therapeutic target in hyperbilirubinemia.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is characterized by dysregulated lipid metabolism and a high propensity for developing resistance to targeted therapies. Mitophagy is a key process involved in the progression of various cancers, including RCC. Here, using in vivo genome-wide CRISPR screening, we identified PRKAB2 as a crucial tumor suppressor in RCC. Reduced PRKAB2 expression correlated with poor prognosis and aggressive clinical features, whereas overexpression of PRKAB2 markedly inhibited RCC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, tumor growth, and metastasis both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, PRKAB2 overexpression inhibited mitophagy primarily through two distinct mechanisms. First, PRKAB2 enhanced the binding between LRPPRC and PRKN/parkin, competitively reducing PRKN's interaction with PINK1 and thus suppressing ubiquitin-dependent mitophagy. Second, PRKAB2 promoted AMPK phosphorylation, which in turn suppressed SREBF1/SREBP1-mediated transcriptional activation of CRLS1, leading to decreased CRLS1 expression and reduced synthesis of cardiolipin, a lipid essential for mitophagy. Importantly, PRKAB2 overexpression significantly restored sensitivity to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) in sunitinib-resistant RCC cells. Conversely, forced PRKN expression promoted resistance to these drugs, further implicating mitophagy as a key mechanism underlying TKI resistance. Depmap analysis confirmed the association between increased mitophagy and TKI resistance. Overall, our findings identify PRKAB2 as a critical tumor suppressor in RCC, regulating both protein-protein interactions and lipid metabolism to suppress mitophagy. Targeting PRKAB2-associated pathways may provide a promising therapeutic strategy to enhance treatment efficacy and overcome drug resistance in RCC.Abbreviations: ACACA/ACC1: acetyl-CoA carboxylase alpha; AMPK: AMP-activated protein kinase; ATCC: American Type Culture Collection; ATP5F1A: ATP synthase F1 subunit alpha; BNIP3: BCL2 interacting protein 3; BNIP3L/NIX: BCL2 interacting protein 3 like; BRCA1: BRCA1 DNA repair associated; Cas: CRISPR-associated; CCCP: carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl hydrazone; ccRCC: clear cell renal cell carcinoma; ChIP: chromatin immunoprecipitation; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; COX4I1: cytochrome c oxidase subunit 4I1; CRISPR: clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats; CRLS1: cardiolipin synthase 1; DNM1L/DRP1: dynamin 1 like; DOX: doxorubicin; FUNDC1: FUN14 domain containing 1; HSPA8: heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 8; HSPD1: heat shock protein family D (Hsp60) member 1; GO: gene ontology; IHC: immunohistochemistry; IMM: inner mitochondrial membrane; LDLR: low density lipoprotein receptor; m-SREBF1: mature sterol regulatory element binding transcriptional factor 1; LRPPRC: leucine rich pentatricopeptide repeat containing; MAP1LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MFN1, mitofusin 1; MFN2: mitofusin 2; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; OMM: outer mitochondrial membrane; OS: overall survival; PA: phosphatidic acid; PG: phosphatidylglycerol; PGS1: phosphatidylglycerophosphate synthase 1; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase1; PRKAA1/AMPKα1: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1; PRKAA2/AMPKα2: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 2; PRKAB1/AMPKβ1: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit beta 1; PRKAB2/AMPKβ2: protein kinase AMP-activated non-catalytic subunit beta 2; PRKAG1/AMPKγ1: protein kinase AMP-activated non-catalytic subunit gamma 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; RCC: renal cell carcinoma; SASA: solvent-accessible surface areas; SUCLG1: succinate-CoA ligase GDP/ADP-forming subunit alpha; TCGA: The Cancer Genome Atlas; TKI: tyrosine kinase inhibitors; UCP1: uncoupling protein 1; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; WCL: whole-cell lysate.
Human platelets express 2 thrombin-activated G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), protease activated receptor (PAR)1 and PAR4. Previous studies have demonstrated PAR1 activation to be fast on-fast off while PAR4 activation was slower but more sustained. However, how PARs regulate second messengers such as cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP), a negative regulator of platelet activation, remain unknown.This study investigated how PAR1 and PAR4 activation by thrombin regulates cAMP levels and platelet activation.PAR1 and PAR4 on washed human platelets were inhibited with vorapaxar or BMS-986120, respectively, in the presence or absence of prostaglandin (PG)I2. Platelets were stimulated with various thrombin concentrations, and calcium flux and platelet aggregation were measured. PAR regulation of cAMP in megakaryocytes (MKs) was also studied by genetic disruption of PAR1 or PAR4 using CRISPR/Cas9 editing.In the presence of PGI2, cAMP was significantly reduced after thrombin stimulation when platelets or MKs were activated through PAR1, but not PAR4. Calcium flux was highly associated with cAMP level changes. High concentrations of cAMP were associated with low calcium flux with PAR4 stimulation. In contrast, stimulating PAR1 decreased cAMP levels, and this was associated with a more pronounced calcium flux. Phosphodiesterase (PDE)3A is involved in regulating cAMP levels. Blocking PDE3A with a pharmacological inhibitor in platelets or genetic knockout in MKs reversed PAR1-induced decrease of cAMP level, while PAR4 was not affected by PDE3A inhibition.The data suggest differences between PAR1 and PAR4 induced thrombin activation are due, in part, to cAMP regulation by PDE3A.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The clinical presentation of stroke-heart syndrome (SHS) underscores the interplay between the central nervous system and the cardiovascular system. While cardiac arrhythmia is the prevalent form of cardiac injury in SHS patients, the causal link between ischemic stroke and cardiac arrhythmia is still unclear.Mendelian randomization analyses and genome-wide association studies data were used to investigate the causal role of ischemic stroke on cardiac complications. Mediation and colocalization analyses were used to identify potential pathways and shared genetic variants. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with arrhythmias and ischemic stroke were used for Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses. Gene expression omnibus (GEO) database from atrial fibrillation patients were used for validation.Mendelian randomization analyses showed a strong correlation between arrhythmias, including ventricular tachyarrhythmias and atrial fibrillation, with ischemic stroke. Diabetic microvascular (nephropathy, retinopathy) and macrovascular (cardiomyopathy, peripheral arterial disease) complications significantly mediated the effect of ischemic stroke on cardiac arrhythmias and atrial fibrillation, explaining 28.69 % and 20.48 % of the indirect effect, respectively. Colocalization analyses identified a shared causal variant in the Phosphodiesterase 3A (PDE3A) gene (rs11045239), providing genetic evidence for a shared pathogenic pathway between ischemic stroke and cardiac arrhythmias. Moreover, KEGG pathway enrichment analyses identified a role of the cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) signaling pathway in both ischemic stroke and arrhythmias. Validation using the GEO database confirmed a significant upregulation of the PDE3A gene expression in atrial fibrillation patients.This study demonstrated a causal link between ischemic stroke and cardiac arrhythmias, with diabetic complications as one mediating factor. The identification of a shared causal variant in the PDE3A gene and the role of the cAMP signaling pathway have the potential to improve prediction and management of SHS patients.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Aortic aneurysm and dissection (AAD) are life-threatening conditions without effective medications. Impaired contractility of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) is strongly linked to AAD, but the role of calcium channel blockers (CCBs), which directly inhibits VSMC contractility, in AAD remains unclear. Here we showed data from 501,878 initially AAD-free participants in UK Biobank. Over a median follow-up of 13.5 years, CCB users had higher AAD risk (HR = 1.31) than hypertensive patients not receiving antihypertensive treatment. In mouse models of AAD, CCBs significantly aggravated aortic stiffness and AAD development. For patients with type B aortic dissection who underwent endovascular repair, CCBs limited AAD regression compared with other antihypertensives. Moreover, silencing of protein kinase cGMP-dependent 1 (PRKG1) significantly mitigated CCB-aggravated AAD progression. These findings suggest that CCBs may increase AAD risk and post-stent surgery prognosis, highlighting the need for caution when prescribing CCBs to hypertensive patients at risk for AAD.© 2025. The Author(s).
Aortopathy encompasses a wide spectrum of genetic and heritable conditions that predispose individuals to aortic dissections and aneurysms. These include bicuspid aortic valve-associated aortopathy, nonsyndromic heritable thoracic aortic disease (HTAD), and syndromic HTAD. Syndromic heritable thoracic diseases include Marfan syndrome, Turner syndrome, vascular Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, and Loeys-Dietz syndrome. In contrast, nonsyndromic HTAD is due to pathogenic variants in genes such as acetyl coenzyme a cholesterol acyltransferase-2, forkhead-related transcription factor 8, lysine oxidase, protein kinase cGMP-dependent 1, and myosin light chain kinase. Pregnancy-related aortic events are rare, but they account for a disproportionate share of maternal cardiovascular deaths. Profound hormonal and hemodynamic changes-including increased blood volume, cardiac output, and arterial wall stress-amplify underlying genetic risks. Acute dissection, while infrequent, remains one of the leading causes of maternal mortality, and aneurysms pose additional challenges given their silent progression until rupture. Guideline-directed management strategies-including preconception counseling, imaging surveillance, pharmacologic blood pressure control, and delivery planning-are essential for optimizing maternal and fetal outcomes. This review summarizes current evidence on the epidemiology, risk stratification, and management of aortopathy in pregnancy, emphasizing the importance of early recognition and multidisciplinary care.Copyright © 2025 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
Male infertility is a growing global health issue, with declining sperm quality being a major contributing factor. Zearalenone (ZEA), a widespread mycotoxin, is frequently detected in human populations through contaminated food and water. Here, we investigated the mechanism by which environmentally relevant concentrations of ZEA disrupt the blood-testis barrier (BTB) and impair sperm quality. We found that exposure to ZEA disrupted BTB integrity and reduced sperm quality in mice. Mechanistically, ZEA activated the inositol-requiring enzyme 1α (IRE1α), leading to regulated IRE1α-dependent decay (RIDD) of GA binding protein transcription factor α (Gabpa) mRNA. GABPA binds directly to and transcriptionally activates the promoters of genes encoding the tight junction proteins ZO1 and Occludin. This binding was attenuated by ZEA treatment. GABPA overexpression rescued the ZEA-induced downregulation of ZO1 and Occludin and restored barrier function, whereas GABPA knockdown exacerbated these defects. Both Ern1 (encoding IRE1α) knockdown and pharmacological inhibition of IRE1α RNase activity with 4μ8C rescued GABPA expression, restored BTB function, and ameliorated ZEA-induced sperm defects. Our findings unveil a novel IRE1α-GABPA signaling axis as a central mechanism in ZEA-mediated male reproductive toxicity, highlighting IRE1α and GABPA as potential therapeutic targets for intervention against environmental pollutant-induced infertility.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Post-COVID-19 syndrome is a major long-term sequela of severe SARS-CoV-2 infection, potentially involving persistent angiogenic and thromboinflammatory dysfunction, though long-term biomarker behavior remains unclear.To evaluate the evolution of angiogenic and thromboinflammatory biomarkers in post-COVID-19 syndrome patients.This ambispective cohort study was conducted at the National Institute of Respiratory Diseases in Mexico City. Thirty-two adults hospitalized for severe or critical COVID-19 in 2020 were followed for three and a half years. Paired plasma samples were collected during hospitalization and at long-term follow-up. Endothelial dysfunction markers included soluble P-selectin, vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2, vascular endothelial growth factor D, and angiopoietin-1. Hemostasis was assessed by prothrombin time. Acute-phase proteins alpha-2-macroglobulin and haptoglobin were measured via immunoassay. Persistent symptoms were documented at follow-up.At three and a half years, persistent symptoms were common: fatigue in sixty-five point 6%, dyspnea in sixty-two point 5%, and concentration difficulties in sixty-five point 6%. Vascular endothelial growth factor D and angiopoietin-1 remained elevated. Alpha-2-macroglobulin stayed high, and prothrombin time was prolonged in a subset of patients.Severe COVID-19 survivors show sustained angiogenic dysregulation and thromboinflammatory imbalance. Elevated vascular endothelial growth factor D and angiopoietin-1 indicate ongoing angiogenic perturbations, while increased alpha-2-macroglobulin and prolonged prothrombin time reflect persistent coagulation disturbances. These biomarkers may help identify long-term vascular alterations in post-COVID-19 syndrome.© 2026. The Author(s).
Postoperative corneal haze, driven by aberrant TGF-β1-mediated fibrosis, remains a formidable clinical challenge following refractive surgery. Current steroid therapies are compromised by severe side effects, including steroid-induced glaucoma. Herein, we report a nanoparticle (CCB@TET) comprising a tetrandrine-loaded bovine serum albumin core and a 3-carboxyphenylboronic acid-modified chitosan shell for corneal haze prevention. The optimized nanoplatform (202 nm, +35 mV) exhibited high drug loading (39.25%) and sustained release. The shell coating endowed dual transport mechanisms: mucoadhesion via electrostatic interaction and reversible tight junction opening via occludin downregulation, facilitating enhanced transcorneal permeation. In vitro, CCB@TET suppressed human corneal stromal cell migration and myofibroblast transdifferentiation without compromising epithelial wound healing. In a rabbit transepithelial photorefractive keratectomy haze model, topical CCB@TET outperformed free tetrandrine and clinical fluorometholone, while avoiding steroid-induced intraocular pressure elevation. Mechanistically, CCB@TET was found to suppress the TGF-β1/Smad signaling cascade through ITGB6 downregulation, as revealed by transcriptomic screening and biochemical validation. This study presents a rationally designed nanoplatform for safe and effective prevention of postoperative corneal haze.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Phenolic compounds are recognized for antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and antidiabetic properties. Lentils are abundant in these compounds, yet comparative studies across varieties and intestinal cells effects remain limited. This study evaluated the nutritional composition, phenolic profile, antioxidant activity, and α-glucosidase inhibition of four lentil types in raw and cooked forms. L01 had the highest bioactive potential and was the only one selected for further evaluation in Caco-2 cells under basal and IL-1β-stimulated conditions. Cooking altered composition, leading to higher protein, fiber, and carbohydrates, reducing tannins, and maintaining high phytic acid in some varieties. L01 consistently showed the highest phenolic content, antioxidant activity, and enzyme inhibition. Its phenolic profile was dominated by kaempferol derivatives, (epi)catechin, and procyanidins, with cooking increasing monomeric catechins but reducing procyanidin oligomers. At noncytotoxic levels, L01 extracts reduced IL-6/8 secretion in stimulated cells, with stronger effects from raw extracts. Additionally, they decreased expression of inflammatory markers (IL-6/8/1β) while increasing expression of metabolic regulation- and barrier-related genes (Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ, Sirtuin 1, Occludin, and Cadherin-1). Only raw extracts significantly enhanced Heme oxygenase-1 expression under stimulation. These findings highlight compositional differences beyond tegument color and support further investigation of phenolic-rich lentils as potential functional food ingredients targeting gut and metabolic health.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Usnea longissima Ach. has long been used in traditional medicine for inflammatory and infectious disorders, but its therapeutic potential and immunological mechanism in ulcerative colitis remain unclear. In this study, we investigated the protective effects of Usnea longissima Ach. Polysaccharide (USLP) against dextran sulfate sodium-induced colitis in mice and explored its microbiota-associated mucosal immune mechanism. USLP markedly alleviated colitis symptoms, as shown by reduced body weight loss and disease activity index, preservation of colon length, and improvement of histopathological injury. USLP also restored epithelial barrier integrity by increasing the expression of occludin, claudin-1 and ZO-1. Importantly, USLP rebalanced systemic cytokine levels by suppressing DSS-induced TNF-α and IL-1β production while enhancing the regulatory cytokine IL-10, suggesting restoration of intestinal immune homeostasis. 16S rRNA sequencing showed that USLP remodeled DSS-induced gut microbiota dysbiosis, characterized by enrichment of Lactobacillus-associated beneficial taxa and reduction of DSS-expanded pathobiont-associated taxa such as Bacteroides. These microbial changes were closely correlated with inflammatory cytokines and barrier-related markers. Integrated transcriptomic analysis revealed that USLP reversed immune-inflammatory transcriptional alterations in the colonic mucosa, with PI3K-Akt signaling identified as a key pathway. Western blot further confirmed that USLP inhibited DSS-induced phosphorylation of PI3K and Akt. Collectively, these findings indicate that USLP protects against DSS-induced colitis, at least partly, by restoring microbiota-barrier-immune homeostasis and suppressing PI3K-Akt-associated mucosal inflammatory signaling, supporting its potential as an immunomodulatory candidate for UC intervention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Akkermansia muciniphila (A. muciniphila) has shown considerable potential in maintaining intestinal barrier homeostasis and regulating host inflammatory responses, both of which are commonly disrupted in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). However, the therapeutic application of live A. muciniphila in IBD remains controversial. Interestingly, A. muciniphila-derived extracellular vesicles (AEVs) have been reported to improve intestinal barrier function, immune status, and gut microbiota composition, and may exert superior efficacy in IBD. In parallel, pasteurized A. muciniphila has been shown to retain, or even enhance, beneficial bioactivity compared with the live bacterium in certain disease settings. Here, we investigated whether extracellular vesicles derived from pasteurized A. muciniphila (PAEVs) preserve or further enhance the anti-inflammatory and barrier-protective effects of the parental bacterium.A dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced mouse model of colitis was used to evaluate the therapeutic effects of PAEVs and AEVs. Disease severity, body weight loss, colonic histopathology, inflammatory cytokine expression, intestinal barrier integrity, inflammatory signaling pathways, and gut microbiota composition were assessed.PAEVs markedly attenuated DSS-induced colitis, as evidenced by reduced weight loss, improved colonic histology, decreased levels of TNF-α, IL-6, and IFN-γ, and enhanced tight junction proteins. By contrast, AEVs improved only limited parameters, including Occludin expression and TNF-α levels. Mechanistically, PAEV-mediated protection may be associated with suppression of the STING/IκB/NF-κB signaling axis and remodeling of the gut microbiota.These findings indicate that PAEVs effectively alleviate experimental IBD by enhancing tight junction proteins, suppressing some inflammatory cytokines, and modulating gut microbiota composition. Compared with AEVs, PAEVs exhibit broader protective effects, suggesting that extracellular vesicles derived from pasteurized A. muciniphila may represent a promising postbiotic strategy for IBD intervention. Importantly, this study offers the first systematic comparison of extracellular vesicles derived from live and pasteurized A. muciniphila, highlighting PAEVs as a distinct and potentially more effective postbiotic vesicle formulation for IBD intervention.Copyright © 2026 Zou, Jia, Shu, You, Ma, Wang, He and Xu.
Platelet-Released Growth Factors (PRGF) are a standardized, cell- and fibrin-free platelet lysate with translational potential for tissue repair. PRGF enhance tissue regeneration, particularly in contexts where angiogenesis is critical for restoring perfusion in chronic and non-healing wounds. Here, we present the first in vitro study demonstrating that PRGF exert pro-angiogenic effects at a working concentration of 10%. The study employs an endothelial cell-based model integrating targeted gene expression analysis, array-based profiling of angiogenesis-related proteins, and functional endothelial tube formation assays. In this setting, screening-level transcriptional and proteomic profiling indicated higher transcript levels of angiogenesis-related genes and increased signals of representative angiogenesis-associated mediators (e.g., Platelet Factor 4, Angiopoietin-1, Angiogenin) following PRGF stimulation. Functional tube formation assays demonstrated significant enhancement of multiple pro-angiogenic parameters in response to PRGF, including number of pieces (P < 0.001), junctions (P < 0.01), and segments (P < 0.05). These findings suggest that 10% PRGF may support angiogenesis and tissue regeneration and provide a foundation for further validation in more complex multicellular systems and in vivo models.© 2026. The Author(s).
The gut vascular barrier (GVB) is essential for maintaining intestinal homeostasis. However, its role in patients undergoing surgery for Crohn's disease (CD) remains unclear. Thus, our study aimed to explore the association between GVB and disease severity and postoperative outcomes in CD patients, as well as to develop a scoring system to predict postoperative prognosis.Endothelial plasmalemma vesicle-associated protein (PV-1) is a typical biomarker of GVB dysfunction. The expression of PV-1 was measured in intestinal mucosa of patients with Crohn's disease (CD) and controls scheduled for surgery. The correlation between PV-1 expression and clinical data was analyzed. Moreover, a scoring system based on PV-1 was developed to predict the postoperative outcomes.GVB damage was detected in CD patients. Levels of intestinal PV-1 expression were markedly higher in inflamed parts of CD patients than in non-inflamed parts and in control patients (both P < 0.05). Levels of PV-1 were positively correlated with preoperative disease activity indexes and postoperative clinical outcomes. Importantly, a new scoring system based on PV-1 was established to predict an adverse total postoperative prognosis or a longer length of stay, and it showed better discrimination (Areas under the receiver operating characteristic curves (AUCs) = 0.808, 0.902, P < 0.001).GVB damage was found in CD patients and was associated with the severity of disease and postoperative outcomes. A scoring system based on GVB damage is promising in predicting poor postoperative outcomes.© 2026. The Author(s).
The gut-vascular barrier plays a pivotal role in inflammatory bowel disease pathogenesis. We introduce a novel 3-dimensional multiphoton endomicroscopy approach for real-time and sensitive detection of vascular permeability in the colon to identify colitis-associated vascular changes in the early stages.Using fluorescence-based multiphoton endomicroscopy, we visualized dynamic changes in vascular permeability in vivo during longitudinal observations in different experimental colitis models (dextran sodium sulfate- and T cell transfer-induced colitis). Vascular permeability changes were systematically compared with conventional inflammatory markers, including weight loss, endoscopic scoring, colon length, histopathology, and immune cell infiltration. To assess molecular regulation of barrier functions, the expression of key molecules of vascular (plasmalemma vesicle-associated protein, vascular endothelial cadherin) and epithelial (epithelial cadherin) barriers was investigated during development of colitis at the single-cell level.Multiphoton endomicroscopy provided unprecedented 3-dimensional visualization of vascular permeability dynamics and showed that vascular dysfunction occurs prior to epithelial barrier breakdown and the detection of traditional inflammatory markers across all colitis models. Distinct spatial vascular permeability patterns strongly correlated with mucosal damage severity, further supporting that early gut-vascular barrier disruption precedes mucosal barrier breakdown. Additionally, this sequence was confirmed at the molecular level, with the vascular upregulation of the transendothelial permeability channel plasmalemma vesicle-associated protein occurring before downregulation of the epithelial barrier molecule E-cadherin.Multiphoton endomicroscopy with 3-dimensional imaging demonstrated gut-vascular barrier dysfunction in the very early stages of experimental colitis. Further development of multiphoton endomicroscopy-based vascular permeability analysis for use in routine clinical monitoring of patients may provide new perspectives to improve diagnosis and clinical decision-making in inflammatory bowel disease.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Fenestrated capillaries in the anterior lobe (AL) of the pituitary gland are specialized for efficient hormone exchange and are surrounded by extracellular matrix-rich basement membranes (BMs). Although several collagens have been implicated in the structural regulation of capillaries in the pituitary, the contribution of collagen XV remains unknown. In the present study, we investigated the expression, localization, and regulation of COL15A1, the α1 chain of collagen XV, in the rat pituitary. Real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) revealed that Col15a1 is highly expressed in the endothelial cell fraction isolated from rat AL. In situ hybridization showed that Col15a1 is expressed in plasmalemma vesicle-associated protein (PLVAP)-positive fenestrated endothelial cells in the AL. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated that COL15A1 is localized to BMs surrounding PLVAP-positive fenestrated capillaries in the AL, the median eminence, and the choroid plexus, but not in those surrounding continuous capillaries in the cerebrum. Because transforming growth factor-β (TGFβ) is a key regulator of collagen expression, we examined its role in Col15a1 regulation. RT-qPCR and in situ hybridization revealed that Tgfbr2 is expressed in fenestrated endothelial cells in the AL. Immunocytochemistry demonstrated that TGFβ1 stimulation induces nuclear translocation of SMAD2 in cultured endothelial cells isolated from the rat AL. RT-qPCR also showed that TGFβ1 significantly increases Col15a1 expression, which is suppressed by the TGFβ receptor I inhibitor SB431542. Together, these results demonstrate that TGFβ signaling regulates Col15a1 expression in fenestrated endothelial cells and suggest that collagen XV contributes to the structural and functional specialization of fenestrated capillaries in the pituitary.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41543187 is a review article
The central nervous system (CNS) parenchyma has conventionally been believed to lack lymphatic vasculature, likely owing to a non-permissive microenvironment that hinders the formation and growth of lymphatic endothelial cells (LECs). Recent findings of ectopic expression of LEC markers including prospero homeobox 1 (PROX1), a master regulator of lymphatic differentiation, and the vascular permeability marker plasmalemma vesicle-associated protein (PLVAP) in certain glioblastomas (GBM) and brain arteriovenous malformations have prompted investigation into their roles in cerebrovascular malformations, tumor environments, and blood-brain barrier (BBB) abnormalities. To explore the relationship between ectopic LEC properties and BBB disruption, we used endothelial cell-specific Prox1 overexpression mutants. When induced during embryonic stages of BBB formation, endothelial Prox1 expression induces hybrid blood-lymphatic phenotypes in the developing CNS vasculature. This effect is not observed when Prox1 is overexpressed during postnatal BBB maturation. Ectopic Prox1 expression leads to significant vascular malformations and enhanced vascular leakage, resulting in BBB disruption when induced during both embryonic and postnatal stages. Mechanistically, PROX1 downregulates critical BBB-associated genes, including β-catenin and claudin-5, which are essential for BBB development and maintenance. These findings suggest that PROX1 compromises BBB integrity by negatively regulating BBB-associated gene expression and Wnt/β-catenin signaling.
Plasmalemma vesicle-associated protein (PLVAP) plays a pivotal role in regulating endothelial permeability and maintaining blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity. As a cellular receptor for the Japanese Encephalitis Virus (JEV) envelope protein, PLVAP significantly influences viral neuroinvasion and central nervous system entry. This study employed computational approaches to investigate the functional impact of non-synonymous single-nucleotide polymorphisms (nsSNPs) in the PLVAP gene and their potential effects on JEV-host interactions. We retrieved 11,883 SNPs from the NCBI dbSNP database and identified 403 unique nsSNPs for comprehensive analysis. Approximately 50% of these variants resulted in alterations to amino acid charge or polarity, indicating potential functional consequences. Stability analysis revealed 43 nsSNPs that significantly destabilized PLVAP structure (ΔΔG ≤ -1 kcal/mol), with several variants also affecting local protein disorder. Conservation analysis identified 29 deleterious nsSNPs, emphasizing their evolutionary importance and functional relevance. Five critical variants (R26H, I35T, E175G, V44G, and I39S) were prioritized based on their pronounced destabilizing effects on PLVAP structure and function. Molecular docking studies demonstrated that these mutations substantially altered PLVAP-JEV envelope protein binding interactions, potentially modifying viral entry efficiency and host susceptibility. These findings suggest clinical applications, including the use of PLVAP variants as biomarkers for risk stratification and guiding vaccination strategies in endemic regions. Moreover, insights into PLVAP-JEV interactions open avenues for therapeutic interventions, such as small-molecule inhibitors targeting viral entry. This computational framework may be extended to other flavivirus-host interactions, advancing antiviral drug discovery and personalized medicine approaches for JEV prevention.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Institute of Plant Genetics Polish Academy of Sciences.
Sitagliptin, an inhibitor of dipeptidyl peptidase-4 widely used in type 2 diabetes therapy, impairs the barrier formed by retinal endothelial cells (REC) during prolonged exposure. Because diabetic macular edema is treated with inhibitors of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-A signaling, we now studied (1) if sitagliptin interfered with this therapeutic approach and (2) if VEGF-A is involved in sitagliptin-induced barrier dysfunction.Confluent immortalized bovine REC (iBREC) were exposed for two days to sitagliptin and/or tivozanib, an inhibitor of the VEGF receptor 2, with or without VEGF-A. The cell index as an indicator of permeability was continuously measured, and cells and supernatants were harvested. Expressions of regulators of para- and transcellular flow, i.e., claudin-1, claudin-5, and plasmalemma vesicle-associated protein (PLVAP), were determined by subsequent Western blot analyses, and potential secretion of VEGF-A was measured by ELISA.Sitagliptin-exposed iBREC did not secrete VEGF-A, and, accordingly, tivozanib did not prevent the sitagliptin-induced decline of the cell index and the increased expression of tight junction (TJ) protein claudin 1. More TJ-protein claudin-5 was isolated together with proteins from membranes or organelles from sitagliptin-treated iBREC, which did not express PLVAP. The VEGF-A165-induced declines of the cell index and TJ-protein claudin-1 were prevented by tivozanib, and this process was not modulated by sitagliptin.The underlying mechanisms of barrier dysfunctions caused by sitagliptin or VEGF-A are different and independent. Most importantly, the DPP-4 inhibitor does not interfere with blocking VEGF signaling to correct VEGF-A-dependent barrier dysfunction.Thieme. All rights reserved.
Vascular dysfunction is common in inflammatory skin disorders, but its regulation remains unclear.Through bioinformatics, we identified CLIC1 upregulation in psoriasis and atopic dermatitis endothelial cells. Using gain- and loss-of-function assays in endothelial cells, alongside transcriptomics, human skin biopsies, and an imiquimod-induced psoriasis mouse model, we investigated CLIC1's functional role.CLIC1 overexpression enhanced endothelial barrier integrity and reduced neutrophil transmigration, whereas CLIC1 knockdown had opposite effects. Mechanistically, CLIC1 regulated tight junction protein 2 (TJP2), which was required for its protective effect. Human lesions showed CLIC1 and TJP2 co-upregulation with TJP2 redistributing to reinforce the barrier. In vivo, CLIC1 overexpression ameliorated psoriasiform dermatitis.CLIC1 acts as a compensatory barrier-protective molecule in inflamed endothelium and represents a potential therapeutic target for inflammatory skin disorders.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Pediatric hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), a rare and life-threatening malignancy that typically arises de novo, is strongly associated with underlying metabolic or genetic disorders. Its molecular pathogenesis remains poorly understood due to the limited number of well-documented cases. Herein, we present the case of an 11-year, 5-month-old boy who presented with incidentally detected cirrhosis, growth retardation, and severe pruritus. Whole-exome sequencing revealed a novel homozygous variant in the mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM) gene (c.197C>A; p.Pro66His) and compound heterozygous variants in the tight junction protein 2 (TJP2) gene (c.142G>C; p.Val48Leu and c.877C>T; p.Arg293Trp), all classified as variants of uncertain significance (VUS). Immunohistochemistry confirmed reduced expression of TFAM and TJP2, while electron microscopy demonstrated abnormal mitochondrial ultrastructure and compromised biliary epithelial integrity, supporting a diagnosis of combined TFAM and TJP2 deficiency. The disease rapidly progressed from moderately to well-differentiated HCC within 15 months. Following laparoscopic tumor resection, the patient successfully underwent orthotopic liver transplantation at 13 years of age, with normal graft function maintained at the 8-month follow-up. This case provides insights for the diagnosis and management of pediatric liver disease involving multiple VUS, suggests a potential novel pathogenic mechanism of HCC, and highlights the possible synergistic effects of multigene variants. Whether combined TFAM and TJP2 deficiencies directly and synergistically accelerate liver disease progression and hepatocarcinogenesis warrants further validation through additional clinical cases and functional studies.
M2 macrophage polarization in the tumor microenvironment drives lung cancer progression. ETS homologous factor (EHF) is overexpressed in lung cancer and linked to malignancy. However, the mechanism by which EHF regulates macrophage M2 polarization in the lung cancer microenvironment remains unclear.EHF expression in lung cancer tissues was assessed via bioinformatics databases, qRT-PCR, and Western blot. Cell proliferation, glycolysis indices, apoptosis, and migration were evaluated via EdU, commercial kits, flow cytometry, and Transwell, respectively. Lung cancer cell exosomes were isolated, with their characteristics identified by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA). Next, the binding between ring finger protein 41 (RNF41) and EHF was predicted via JASPER and verified by chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and dual-luciferase reporter assays.EHF was highly expressed in lung cancer. Downregulation of EHF suppressed the malignant phenotypes of lung cancer cells and reduced M2 polarization of macrophages. Exosomes from lung cancer cells could enrich EHF and deliver it to macrophages, promoting their M2 polarization, while knockdown of EHF in exosomes reversed this effect. Mechanistically, EHF bound to the RNF41 promoter and promoted its transcription, and overexpression of RNF41 could reverse the suppressive effects of EHF silencing on macrophage M2 polarization and lung cancer progression. In vivo experiments showed that inhibition of the EHF/RNF41 axis significantly suppressed tumor growth.Exosomal EHF derived from lung cancer cells promoted M2 polarization of macrophages through transcriptional regulation of RNF41, thereby driving lung cancer progression.© 2026 The Author(s).
The programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) / programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) axis represents a cornerstone of cancer immunotherapy, yet the dynamic shuttling of PD-L1 between endosomal recycling and lysosomal degradation routes limits durable responses. Using a CRISPR screen targeting glycosphingolipid metabolism, we identify transmembrane 9 superfamily member 2 (TM9SF2) as a key regulator of PD-L1 levels. TM9SF2 orchestrates a dual mechanism: it recruits phosphoglycerate kinase 1 (PGK1) to promote PD-L1 recycling to the plasma membrane while dismantling the huntingtin-interacting protein 1-related protein (HIP1R)-mediated lysosomal degradation pathway. Genetic or pharmacological disruption of the TM9SF2-PGK1 complex depletes PD-L1 levels and boosts antitumor immunity. Further, the endogenous ceramide species Cer(d18:1/26:0) destabilizes this complex, triggering PD-L1 lysosomal destruction and potentiating antitumor immunity. These findings delineate a ceramide-gated sorting mechanism within the endosomal network, revealing a druggable metabolic switch to disrupt immune evasion and amplify checkpoint blockade efficacy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41874196 is a review article
Neonatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) triggers systemic oxidative stress and redox imbalance, contributing to multi-organ injury. Urine is a noninvasive matrix for longitudinal profiling of molecular responses, yet time-resolved proteomic studies in HIE are limited.We performed longitudinal SWATH-MS proteomic profiling of urine from term neonates with moderate-to-severe HIE treated with therapeutic hypothermia (n = 16) and non-asphyxiated controls (n = 19) at six time points during the first eight days of life. Proteins identified in ≥ 80% of samples were quantified, and differential abundance, temporal clustering, pathway enrichment, and upstream regulatory networks were analyzed.Approximately 1,000 proteins were quantified per sample. A total of 438 proteins were differentially abundant, with most changes transient and ten persistent. Early HIE urine showed marked elevation of hemoglobin subunits and sequential induction of haptoglobin and hemopexin, indicating staged heme scavenging and oxidative stress responses. Pathway enrichment revealed inhibition of neutrophil-associated innate immunity and activation of heme detoxification, lipoprotein remodeling, and PPAR signaling. Temporal clustering demonstrated stage-specific proteomic transitions, with partial normalization toward controls by days 6-8. Ingenuity Pathway Analysis identified six upstream regulators: Interleukin-1 alpha (IL1A), Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF), ETS Homologous Factor (EHF), Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated Receptor Delta (PPARD), Thioredoxin-Interacting Protein (TXNIP), and Solute Carrier Family 2 Member 3 (SLC2A3), coordinating inflammation, redox control, and metabolic adaptation.We identified transient and sustained proteomic shifts that trace coordinated changes in oxidative stress, heme metabolism, and metabolic adaptation, alongside key regulators such as IL1A, TNF, EHF, PPARD, and TXNIP. The progression from early injury-related divergence to partial recovery by day 8 highlights the dynamic nature of post-insult remodeling. These findings support urinary proteomics as a robust, non-invasive tool for probing HIE pathophysiology and point to promising biomarker and pathway candidates for future studies.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study investigated the impact of a high-carbohydrate diet on the response to skin wounding in red seabream (Pagrus major), with a focus on oxidative stress and intestinal health. Triplicate groups of fish (n = 40 per tank) were fed either a control diet (CC, 15% carbohydrate) or a high-carbohydrate diet (HC, 25% carbohydrate) for 8 weeks, followed by a standardized skin-wounding challenge. The HC diet induced hyperglycemia, increased hepatic oxidative stress, and caused intestinal impairments before wounding. These effects were significantly exacerbated after skin wounding. Compared with the CC group, HC-fed fish showed significantly lower activities of hepatic antioxidant enzymes, together with further elevations in oxidative damage. In the intestine, the HC diet caused pronounced downregulation of antioxidant genes and mucins, accompanied by a reduction in mucous goblet cells. The impaired mucin layer, associated with reduced polypeptide N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase 13 expression, together with the downregulation of perforin 1 and antimicrobial peptides, facilitated increased bacterial invasion of the intestinal mucosa. The HC diet further compromised intestinal integrity by reducing the expression of tight junction protein 2 alpha and 3, as well as increasing intestinal permeability, as indicated by elevated serum diamine oxidase levels. In conclusion, a high-carbohydrate diet exacerbates skin wound-induced oxidative stress and intestinal barrier dysfunction by impairing antioxidant defense, mucin synthesis, antimicrobial protection, and tight junction integrity. These changes ultimately reduce survival and highlight the negative impact of excessive dietary carbohydrate on the ability of carnivorous fish to cope with physical stress.
The transcriptional program that regulates immunosuppression in CCR7+ conventional dendritic cells (cDCs) is currently unknown. Here, we identify ETS homologous factor (EHF) as a transcription factor that regulates cDC maturation and immunosuppression after TLR7/8/9 stimulation. Mice with conditional deletion of EHF in DCs exhibit increased resistance to autoimmune, infection or tumor challenge. EHF-deficient DCs promotes Th1- and Th17-biased CD4+ helper T cell response in vivo and in vitro. EHF-deficient cDC1s and cDC2s exhibit decreased expression of CCR7, CD200 and PD-L1, increased expression of DC-lineage transcriptional factor IRF4, and decreased expression of inhibitory NFκB family member Rel. EHF overexpression in DCs results in the opposite phenotype. CUT&TAG analysis suggests that EHF directly regulate Ccr7, Cd200, Cd274, Irf4 and Rel expression. Additionally, single-cell RNA-sequencing demonstrates that Ehf expression is highly enriched in CCR7hi DCs in mice and humans. Our study thus reveals a conserved transcriptional program that regulates cDC maturation and immunosuppression.© 2026. The Author(s).
The Oligophrenin 1 (OPHN1) gene, located on Xq12, encodes a Rho GTPase-activating protein that regulates the Rho/Ras signalling pathways essential for cell migration, morphogenesis, dendritogenesis, and synaptic plasticity. Pathogenic variants in OPHN1 have been shown to be associated with structural brain malformations. Early neuroimaging reports described nonspecific findings such as an enlarged cisterna magna, ventriculomegaly, and cerebellar hypoplasia, whereas subsequent studies identified more distinctive abnormalities, including frontotemporal volume reduction and caudate head hypoplasia, and vermian and asymmetric cerebellar hypoplasia. In this series, we applied a systematic approach to detailed MRI phenotyping in patients with confirmed OPHN1 variants. We identified a consistent constellation of structural abnormalities, including cerebellar vermian and hemispheric hypoplasia with dysfoliation, brainstem malformations including aberrant tracts such as anterior mesencephalic cap dysplasia, and abnormal transverse pontine fibers; and supratentorial features such as caudate hypoplasia, frontal-predominant ventriculomegaly, and commissural anomalies. Additional findings, such as dysgyria, hippocampal and olfactory bulb abnormalities, optic nerve hypoplasia, cerebellar heterotopia, and cranial mesenchymal anomalies, further expand the recognized phenotype. The combination of gray and white matter involvement, together with DTI evidence of aberrant fibers, supports a pathogenic mechanism involving abnormal regional development, disrupted cerebrocerebellar connectivity, and impaired axonal guidance.© 2026 by American Journal of Neuroradiology.
Osteomyelitis, often caused by Staphylococcus aureus, presents treatment challenges owing to antibiotic resistance. This study aimed to explore the therapeutic potential of Coicis Semen against osteomyelitis through bioinformatics and experimental validation.An integrated analysis of GEO datasets (GSE16129 and GSE6269) was performed to identify osteomyelitis-related differentially expressed genes. Active compounds of Coicis Semen were screened using HERB and SwissADME, and target genes were predicted using SwissTargetPrediction. Protein-protein interaction networks, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and in vitro and in vivo experiments were conducted to validate the mechanisms.Eleven bioactive compounds and three key genes, Integrin subunit beta 3 (ITGB3), Myeloperoxidase (MPO), and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 8 (CXCL8) were identified. Molecular docking confirmed the stable binding of 6-Methoxy-2-benzoxazolinone (MBOA)-MPO and Nonanoic acid-CXCL8. Both compounds inhibited Staphylococcus aureus growth in vitro and reduced bone destruction in a mouse model.Coicis Semen may alleviate osteomyelitis through multi-target immunomodulatory and antibacterial mechanisms, offering potential adjunctive treatment options.© 2026 Li et al.
Atherosclerosis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory disease and a leading cause of global morbidity and mortality. Dysregulated expression of the long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) H19 has been implicated in AS progression. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear.To determine the role of H19 in AS, the AS mouse model was established using ApoE-/- mice fed a high-fat diet, and the AS cell model was generated by stimulating human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) with oxidized low-density lipoprotein (oxLDL). H19 expression levels were subsequently measured. To investigate the underlying mechanism, H19 siRNA and was transfected into cells, and adeno-associated virus (AAV) expressing short hairpin RNA targeting H19 (AAV-sh-H19) was administered to mice to evaluate the functional impact of H19 on AS.H19 was markedly upregulated in the aortae of AS mice and in the AS cell model, which correlated with enhanced adhesion molecule expression and systemic cytokine release. Mechanistically, H19 functioned as a molecular sponge for microRNA let-7a (miR-let-7a), thereby relieving the repression of its target integrin subunit beta 3 (ITGB3) and amplifying VCAM-1/ICAM-1/N-cadherin-dependent leukocyte recruitment. Luciferase reporter assays confirmed that miR-let-7a is a direct target of H19. Moreover, H19 knockdown increased miR-let-7a levels, thereby inhibiting endothelial cell adhesion and inflammatory responses. Conversely, treatment of mice with AAV-sh-H19 markedly attenuated AS lesion formation.These findings indicate that the H19/miR-let-7a/ITGB3 axis constitutes a targetable inflammatory checkpoint that links endothelial dysfunction to plaque initiation, highlighting H19 inhibition as a potential therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 Hu, Li, Liu, Chen, Lin, Chaurembo, Li, Huang, Wu, Huang, Xing and Lin.
Dopamine (DA) regulates diverse physiological processes via dopamine receptors (DRs), yet the molecular activity and physiological relevance of dopamine receptor D4 paralogs in teleosts remain unclear. Here, we identified and characterized Drd4b (LcDrd4b) from Larimichthys crocea. Sequence and phylogenetic analyses supported its assignment to the DRD4 lineage. Heterologous expression in human embryonic kidney (HEK293) cells showed that LcDrd4b exhibited membrane-associated localization and DA-associated redistribution, reduced forskolin-stimulated cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) accumulation, and activated extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) phosphorylation. Gene expression profiling revealed relatively high Lcdrd4b expression in the intestine at early reproductive stages and prominent gonadal expression at stage IV, especially in mature testes. Tyrosine hydroxylase (Lcth) showed high hepatic expression at stages II-III and a sex-related shift at stage IV. Together, these findings establish LcDrd4b as a functional DR in a marine teleost and provide a molecular basis for further studies of DA signaling in teleost physiology.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Gastrodin (GAS) is a potent neuroprotective compound extracted from the traditional Chinese medicinal herb Gastrodia elata Blume. However, its role in mitigating bisphenol A (BPA)-induced dopaminergic dysfunction and cognitive impairment remains insufficiently explored. Many studies have shown that BPA exposure causes neurodegeneration via mechanisms involving dopaminergic system dysfunction, oxidative stress, and neuroinflammation. Therefore, the present study aimed to investigate whether GAS mitigates the effects of BPA-induced cognitive impairment through neuroinflammation in a rat model. Weanling male Wistar rats exposed to BPA (50 µg/kg b.wt. × 30 days, po) were subsequently treated with GAS at two dose levels (30 and 60 mg/kg b.wt., ip × 7 days). After 24 h, neurobehavioral functions (Barnes maze and Y-maze tests), cresyl violet staining, and ultrastructural analysis were performed, demonstrating significant memory deficits and neuronal degeneration in BPA-exposed rats. In contrast, GAS treatment significantly improved memory impairment and reduced neuronal cell death in the prefrontal cortex (PFC). mRNA, protein, and immunohistochemical expression of inflammatory markers such as tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-1β (IL-1β), interleukin-6 (IL-6), (Iba-1), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and nuclear factor kappa B-p65 (NFκB-p65) were significantly increased in BPA-treated rats, indicating enhanced glial activation and neuroinflammation, whereas GAS effectively attenuated these alterations. Additionally, dopaminergic markers such as tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), dopamine transporter-1/solute carrier family 6 member 3 (DAT-1/SLC6A3), and dopamine receptor D4 (DRD4) were significantly downregulated following BPA exposure and were restored by GAS treatment. Overall, findings suggested that GAS exerts protection against BPA-induced neurotoxicity by suppressing NF-κB-mediated neuroinflammatory response and modulating dopaminergic signaling, thereby improving cognitive and neuronal outcomes in the PFC.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Long-term proton pump inhibitor (PPI) use is associated with increased risks of osteoporosis and fractures. To investigate strategies for mitigating PPI-induced bone loss, this study evaluated the preventive effects of calcium carbonate or sodium bicarbonate on bone alterations in a 12-week esomeprazole-treated Wistar rat model. Esomeprazole monotherapy exhibited compromised trabecular microarchitecture, as evidenced by a decrease in bone volume fraction and trabecular number, alongside an increase in trabecular separation. Conversely, co-administration of esomeprazole with either sodium bicarbonate or calcium carbonate preserved trabecular microarchitecture and attenuated bone resorption of osteoclast. Histological and in vitro assays showed that esomeprazole enhanced osteoclastogenesis by upregulating integrin subunit beta 3 and cathepsin K, which were significantly suppressed by the buffering agents. Consistently, serum levels of C-terminal cross-linked telopeptides of type I collagen were significantly lower in both combination groups. These results indicate that long-term esomeprazole administration induced bone loss, primarily by enhancing osteoclast-mediated resorption. The co-administration of calcium carbonate and sodium bicarbonate effectively attenuated these deleterious effects. Notably, the comparable efficacy of sodium bicarbonate suggests that buffering systemic acidity may be a viable strategy for mitigating PPI-induced osteoporosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Osteosarcoma (OS) is a malignant tumor originating from osteoblasts. Methyltransferase-like 14 (METTL14) is an N6-methyladenosine (m6A) methyltransferase that has been reported to promote OS progression; however, its underlying mechanism remains unclear.Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO), RNA modification base version 3.0 (RMbase V3.0), RNA modification variant database (RMvar), RNA modification disease database version 2.0 (RMDisease V2.0), sequence-based RNA adenosine methylation site predictor (SRAMP), the encyclopedia of RNA interactomes (ENCORI), and RNA binding protein map (RBPmap) were used to obtain gene expression and modification information related to OS. Reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and western blot (WB) were used to detect gene expression at the transcriptional and translational levels. Cell transfection was used to knock down or overexpress target genes. 3-(4,5-Dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) was used to measure cell viability. Flow cytometry was used to detect cell apoptosis. The Transwell assay was used to evaluate cell migration. Sphere formation assay assessed stemness characteristics. Tube formation assay evaluated angiogenic capability. RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) was used to detect interactions between proteins and messenger RNA (mRNA).METTL14 was highly expressed in OS-related cells. Knockdown of METTL14 reduced cell viability, increased apoptosis, and suppressed cell migration, stemness, and angiogenic capacity. In addition, METTL14 cooperated with insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein 1 (IGF2BP1) to mediate m6A methylation of integrin subunit beta 3 (ITGB3), thereby promoting the malignant behaviors of OS-related cells.METTL14 and IGF2BP1 mediate the m6A methylation of ITGB3, further promoting the deterioration of OS, providing new insights into the molecular mechanisms and potential therapeutic targets of OS.© 2026 by the Association of Clinical Scientists, Inc.
Friesian horses are recognized for severe genetic restriction due to intensive selection. Still, the genetic diversity, founder representation, and prevalence of inherited disorders in the Brazilian Friesian population, which is comprised of fewer than 500 individuals, have not been previously investigated AIMS/OBJECTIVES: characterize the genetic diversity, inbreeding, founder representation using pedigree-based tools, and frequency of known pathogenic, behavioral, and white spotting alleles in Friesian horses registered in Brazil METHODS: Pedigree data from 411 Friesian horses (2003-2024) were analyzed to estimate the mean pedigree-based inbreeding coefficient (Fped), and other pedigree-based population diversity measures using the R package PurgeR. Genetic testing was performed in 12 horses for pathogenic variants previously implicated in dwarfism and hydrocephalus, as well as depigmentation alleles, and the dopamine receptor D4 (DRD4) polymorphism associated with temperament RESULTS: Pedigree-based estimates (Fped:16.25 ± 3.8%, Ne = 32.6, Nae = 10.19) indicate a critical loss of genetic variability (p < 0.0001). Three stallions contributed 36% of all offspring, suggesting a popular sire effect. Carrier frequencies were 33% for the dwarfism variant and 16.7% for the hydrocephalus variant. Depigmentation alleles were present in 25% of horses without visible white markings. The DRD4 "curious" G/G genotype predominated (75%), indicating potential locus selection CONCLUSION: The Brazilian Friesian horse population exhibits low effective population size, high inbreeding, and moderate frequencies of deleterious alleles despite active importation of genetic material. Implementation of genetic testing, sire usage limits, and monitoring of inbreeding coefficients are recommended to maintain population health and breed integrity.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Nodular fasciitis is a common benign tumor resulting from reactive proliferation of fibroblasts and myofibroblasts. It most often presents as a firm and solitary lump in the subcutaneous fat layer or fascia adjacent to muscles in the extremities. Because of its rapid growth and high cellularity, it may mimic soft-tissue sarcoma, but it is self-limiting, often resolving with fibrosis. The evolution of benign nodular fasciitis to malignant nodular fasciitis is distinctly uncommon, and only a handful of cases have been reported in the medical literature. Herein we describe the case of a woman with a 21-year history of multifocal nodular fasciitis superimposed on malignant nodular fasciitis. Her course has been characterized by rapid tumor growth and widespread dissemination. Over the course of 2l years she underwent multiple surgical procedures. Ultimately, molecular studies demonstrated a fusion of protein phosphatase 6 regulatory subunit 3 (PPP6R3)-ubiquitin specific peptidase 6 (USP6), suggesting an oncogenic mechanism despite classic histologic features of benign nodular fasciitis with aggressive behavior. She subsequently received systemic therapy, initially with temozolomide and later pazopanib, followed by sunitinib. With the later medication she has achieved a good response of now more than 18 months. This case illustrates the importance of molecular drivers of cancer in a benign soft-tissue tumor and the potential to offer targeted therapies to extend patient survival. This rare case highlights the potential malignant behavior of nodular fasciitis associated with PPP6R3-USP6 fusion.Copyright © 2026 Aboulafia, Liddy, Zeitlinger, Molavi, Murali and Aboulafia.
Multiple sclerosis (MS), the most prevalent chronic inflammatory, demyelinating and neurodegenerative disease of the central nervous system in young adults, exhibits marked sexual dimorphism, with a 3:1 female-to-male ratio, but more severe symptoms and greater neurological damage in males. Increasing attention has focused on identifying circulating molecules that reflect inflammatory activity within the central nervous system and could clarify the mechanisms underlying MS. Pleiotrophin (PTN), a cytokine implicated in autoimmune and neurological diseases, is significantly elevated in patients with relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS). To explore the potential contribution of PTN and its receptors to neuroinflammatory signaling, we quantified the mRNA expression of PTN receptors in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from RRMS patients compared to untreated RRMS patients and healthy control subjects. We further performed an in silico molecular docking and molecular dynamics analysis to assess the possible functional significance of PTN-receptor interactions. Our results show a significant overexpression of integrin subunit beta-3 (ITGB3) mRNA in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from RRMS patients compared to healthy control subjects. Molecular docking shows that PTN could binds to the metal ion-dependent adhesion site domain of ITGB3 via Mg2+/Ca2+-mediated stabilization and has a higher binding affinity than fibrinogen, the canonical endogenous ligand. These findings suggest that ITGB3 could be a dynamically regulated integrin receptor in RRMS that may participate in PTN-driven neuroinflammatory pathways in peripheral blood immune cells, influenced by disease stage, sex, and immunotherapy. While our results support the biological plausibility of PTN-ITGB3 engagement, they remain hypothesis-generating and require functional validation. The integration of molecular expression data and computational modeling underscores the potential involvement of ITGB3 as a possible participant in MS and warrants further investigation of its clinical and mechanistic role.
Lung ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury is a common complication following lung transplantation and cardiac surgery. This study aimed to investigate the role and underlying mechanisms involving Neurogenic locus notch homologue protein 1 (Notch1) signalling and microRNA-485 (miR-485) of hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF1α) in protecting pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells (PMVECs) against I/R-induced injury. We found that overexpression of HIF1α significantly increased cell viability and decreased apoptosis in hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R)-treated PMVECs, while knockdown or inhibition of HIF1α had the opposite effects. Moreover, HIF1α overexpression activated the Notch1 signalling pathway by upregulating Hes1 mRNA expression and Hes1 promoter activity. Conversely, HIF1α knockdown or inhibition inhibited Notch1 signalling. Furthermore, HIF1α overexpression alleviated H/R-induced mitophagy and mitochondrial dysfunction. On the other hand, HIF1α knockdown or inhibition aggravated mitophagy and mitochondrial dysfunction. We also found that HIF1α transcriptionally activated the expression of miR-485. Overexpression of miR-485 reversed the detrimental effects of HIF1α knockdown or inhibition on cell viability, apoptosis, Hes1 expression and mitophagy levels in H/R-treated PMVECs. Additionally, we identified NUMB endocytic adaptor protein (Numb) mRNA as a direct target of miR-485, and miR-485 overexpression suppressed Numb expression in PMVECs. In conclusion, these results suggest that targeting the HIF1α-miR-485-Numb axis may be a potential therapeutic strategy for attenuating lung I/R injury.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Endometriosis is a condition in which tissue similar to the endometrium grows outside the uterus. Angiogenesis plays an important role in endometriosis development. Bioinformatics analysis indicates that miR-410-3p is involved in regulating VEGF, NUMB endocytic adaptor protein, and Protocadherin 8 (PCDH8) expression. Therefore, this study sought to assess miR-410-3p, VEGFA, NUMB, and PCDH8 expression in ovarian endometriosis.The study analyzed 48 ectopic and eutopic tissue samples from individuals with ovarian endometriosis along with 48 controls. The levels of miR-410-3p and its corresponding hub genes were analyzed through real-time PCR.The findings demonstrated a decrease in miR-410-3p expression in the ectopic (0.53 ± 0.09-fold) compared to both the eutopic and the controls, which was 0.95 ± 0.09-fold and 1.007 ± 0.12-fold, respectively (p < 0.0001). However, no significant difference was observed between the eutopic samples and the control group (p > 0.99). The findings also indicated that VEGF expression was elevated in the ectopic (1.38 ± 0.26-fold) when in comparison to both eutopic and controls, which was 0.98 ± 0.08-fold and 1.002 ± 0.12-fold, respectively (p < 0.001). However, there was no notable difference detected between the eutopic group and the controls (p > 0.99). The results for NUMB expression levels showed higher expression in ectopic (1.50 ± 0.33-fold) in comparison to the eutopic (0.98 ± 0.10-fold) and controls (1.004 ± 0.14-fold) (p < 0.001). But, no notable difference was observed between the eutopic and control group (p > 0.99). Moreover, PCDH8 expression was decreased in ectopic endometriosis (1.002 ± 0.14-fold) compared to both eutopic (1.001 ± 0.10-fold and controls (1.002 ± 0.14-fold) (p < 0.001). Nevertheless, there was no statistically significant difference between the eutopic samples and the control group (p > 0.99).It is proposed that miR-410-3p, along with its target genes VEGFA, NUMB, and PCDH8, may play a role in the ovarian endometriosis development and hold possible therapeutic significance for this disease.© 2025 The Author(s). Health Science Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Developing and identifying effective medications and targets for treating hepatic fibrosis is an urgent priority. Our previous research demonstrated the efficacy of artesunate (ART) in alleviating liver fibrosis by eliminating activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). However, the underlying mechanism remains unclear despite these findings. Notably, endocytic adaptor protein (NUMB) has significant implications for treating hepatic diseases, but current research primarily focuses on liver regeneration and hepatocellular carcinoma. The precise function of NUMB in liver fibrosis, particularly its ability to regulate HSCs, requires further investigation. This study aims to elucidate the role of NUMB in the anti-hepatic fibrosis action of ART in HSCs. We observed that the expression level of NUMB significantly decreased in activated HSCs compared to quiescent HSCs, exhibiting a negative correlation with the progression of liver fibrosis. Additionally, ART induced senescence in activated HSCs through the NUMB/P53 tumor suppressor (P53) axis. We identified NUMB as a crucial regulator of senescence in activated HSCs and as a mediator of ART in determining cell fate. This research examines the specific target of ART in eliminating activated HSCs, providing both theoretical and experimental evidence for the treatment of liver fibrosis.Copyright © 2025 China Pharmaceutical University. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Excessive abdominal fat deposition negatively impacts poultry meat production and carcass yield. Identification of novel adipogenesis regulators may help improve production performance declines caused by excessive fat deposition. NUMB Endocytic Adaptor Protein (NUMB) typically functions as a cell fate determinant and plays a significant role in cell development and various diseases. Here, we found that NUMB is abundantly expressed in chicken abdominal fat depots and is induced in cultured adipocytes following adipogenic treatment. The gain- and loss-of-function experiments demonstrated that NUMB promotes the proliferation and G1/S transition of chicken adipocytes, enhances adipocyte differentiation, and increases the expression of PPARγ1 transcript. Through mRNA-seq analysis and molecular experiments, we further confirmed that NUMB inhibits the transcriptional activation of the NOTCH1 pathway and the expression of the downstream transcription factor HES1 by inducing NOTCH1 degradation. Nevertheless, the inhibition of the NOTCH1/HES1 axis alone cannot fully explain NUMB's role in adipogenesis, as NUMB also regulates the expression of multiple adipogenic transcription factors such as E2F1, EGR2, and NR4A3. Our data suggest that NUMB is a potent activator of adipogenesis and enhances our understanding of its regulatory mechanisms in chicken abdominal fat deposition.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The loss of contact inhibition is a key step during carcinogenesis. The Hippo-Yes-associated protein (Hippo/YAP) pathway is an important regulator of cell growth in a cell density-dependent manner. However, how Hippo signaling senses cell density in this context remains elusive. Here, we report that high cell density induced the phosphorylation of spectrin α chain, nonerythrocytic 1 (SPTAN1), a plasma membrane-stabilizing protein, to recruit NUMB endocytic adaptor protein isoforms 1 and 2 (NUMB1/2), which further sequestered microtubule affinity-regulating kinases (MARKs) in the plasma membrane and rendered them inaccessible for phosphorylation and inhibition of the Hippo kinases sterile 20-like kinases MST1 and MST2 (MST1/2). WW45 interaction with MST1/2 was thereby enhanced, resulting in the activation of Hippo signaling to block YAP activity for cell contact inhibition. Importantly, low cell density led to SPTAN1 dephosphorylation and NUMB cytoplasmic location, along with MST1/2 inhibition and, consequently, YAP activation. Moreover, double KO of NUMB and WW45 in the liver led to appreciable organ enlargement and rapid tumorigenesis. Interestingly, NUMB isoforms 3 and 4, which have a truncated phosphotyrosine-binding (PTB) domain and are thus unable to interact with phosphorylated SPTAN1 and activate MST1/2, were selectively upregulated in liver cancer, which correlated with YAP activation. We have thus revealed a SPTAN1/NUMB1/2 axis that acts as a cell density sensor to restrain cell growth and oncogenesis by coupling external cell-cell contact signals to intracellular Hippo signaling.
To clarify the regulation of breast cancer cell-derived exosomes on breast cancer and the expression of the NUMB endocytic adaptor protein (NUMB) protein.The exosomes of breast cancer cell line MDA-MB-231 were isolated. The exosomes were subsequently labeled with PKH67 and added to breast cancer MDA-MB-231 cells cultured in vitro. Transwell and clone formation assays were performed to detect cell migration, invasion, and clone formation. Meanwhile, Western blot and qPCR were conducted to determine the regulation of NUMB expression by exosomes in breast cancer cells. Furthermore, NUMB overexpressed lentivirus was supplemented to validate the recovery.The number of migrating and invasive breast cancer cells in the exosome-treated group was significantly increased compared with the control group. Moreover, the number of breast cancer cell clones in the exosome-treated group was increased than in the control group. However, the NUMB expression in breast cancer cells treated with exosomes revealed a substantial decrease, indicating that the exosomes of breast cancer cells could inhibit NUMB expression. NUMB overexpressed lentivirus supplementation markedly suppressed cell migration, invasion, and proliferation of breast cancer cells compared with exosome group.Taken together, the exosomes of breast cancer cells could inhibit the expression of NUMB and promote the migration, invasion, and cell clone formation of breast cancer cells.Copyright © 2022 Xue Qin and Youde Cao.
Preeclampsia is a pregnancy disorder that is primarily associated with maternal and neonatal or fetal morbidity and mortality. The discovery of dysregulated microRNAs (miRs) and their roles in preeclampsia has provided new insight into the mechanisms involved in pregnancy‑related disorders. In the present study, quantitative PCR demonstrated that the expression levels of miR‑524‑5p were lower in patients with preeclampsia than those in normal pregnant women. Cell Counting Kit‑8 and Transwell assays indicated that overexpression of miR‑524‑5p promoted the proliferation and invasion of HTR‑8/SVneo cells, whereas inhibition of miR‑524‑5p suppressed HTR‑8/SVneo cell proliferation and invasion. Furthermore, NUMB endocytic adaptor protein (NUMB), a negative regulator of the Notch signaling pathway and a target gene of miR‑524‑5p, limited the effects of miR‑524‑5p on HTR‑8/SVneo cell invasion and migration. The present study demonstrated that miR‑524‑5p regulated the proliferation and invasion of HTR‑8/SVneo cells at least partly by targeting NUMB to regulate the Notch signaling pathway.
Diabetic skin ulcers are a major cause of disability, yet effective treatments remain limited due to microvascular dysfunction. This study investigated the effects of a glycol chitosan-silk fibroin hydrogel loaded with Ephrin-B2 (GCS-SF-B2 Gel) on the healing of full-thickness skin wounds in a diabetic mouse model. We prepared the hydrogel by mixing glycol chitosan and silk fibroin solutions, followed by lyophilization and adsorption of Ephrin-B2. The GCS-SF-B2 Gel exhibited a porous structure with a swelling capacity of up to 1600% and a moisturizing duration of up to 12 h. In vitro assays demonstrated that the hydrogel significantly promoted the proliferation and migration of NIH 3T3 cells. In a diabetic mouse model with full-thickness skin defects, the GCS-SF-B2 Gel demonstrated superior therapeutic efficacy compared to control, evidenced by macroscopic healing, increased fibroblast accumulation, improved collagen deposition, and significant angiogenesis at the wound site. These findings suggest that GCS-SF-B2 Gel is a promising candidate for promoting the healing of refractory diabetic wounds.© 2026. The Author(s).
The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic highlights the importance of identifying high risk pathogens, defining the immunity gaps and developing preemptive vaccination strategies. Here, we establish a high-resolution surrogate virus neutralization test detecting neutralizing antibodies against multiple virus families simultaneously, demonstrating good concordance with traditional assays. Extensive serosurveillance of pre-pandemic sera from different continents reveals low prevalence human exposures to different beta-coronaviruses, and identifies individuals with prior exposure to ACE2-binding MERS-like viruses. Furthermore, COVID-19 vaccination induces significant cross-neutralizing antibodies against clade 1b, 1c, and 3 but not clade 1a sarbecoviruses. Similarly, MERS and Nipah convalescent sera neutralize cognate viruses but have limited cross-neutralization against other related merbecoviruses and henipaviruses that utilize DPP4 and ephrin B2 receptors. Finally, a cross-clade prime-and-boost vaccination strategy using antigenically distinct antigens could induce broadly neutralizing antibodies against related viruses beyond vaccine antigens, supporting broad-spectrum beta coronavirus vaccine development.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42197493 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42075770 is a review article
Ovarian cancer remains challenging to treat because of late diagnosis, heterogeneity, and poor response to existing therapies. Here, we present a streamlined and scalable extracellular vesicle (EV) engineering approach that enables efficient cargo packaging and enhances targeted cargo delivery to ovarian tumors in vivo. Systematic comparison of vesicle-anchoring domains identifies an optimized scaffold for loading bioluminescent cargo into EVs. We characterized EV production from five cell lines commonly used for biopharmaceutical manufacturing and selected and stably engineered ExpiCHO cells as a robust, large-scale source of engineered EVs (eEVs). To achieve molecular targeting, the transmembrane scaffold Δ688 PTGFRN is modified to display tissue-targeting ligand Ephrin-B2 (EB2) on the EV surface, exploiting its high-affinity interaction with the Eph receptor B4 (EphB4), which is overexpressed in advanced ovarian carcinoma. Following systemic administration, these eEVs carrying bioluminescent cargo preferentially accumulate in EphB4-positive cells in vivo and permit non-invasive, spatiotemporal tracking via cargo-mediated bioluminescence resonance energy transfer. In patient-derived xenograft models with differential EphB4 expression, Ephrin-B2-displaying eEVs show selective localization to EphB4-positive tumors and report intratumoral cargo distribution. This work establishes a translational strategy for large-scale eEV production, advancing EV-based delivery platforms for precision targeting of EphB4-expressing ovarian cancer.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cells generated using ephrin-B2, the natural ligand for ephrin type-B receptor 4 (EphB4), have demonstrated antitumor activity; however, their efficacy remains unvalidated. Therefore, we evaluated the dual-targeting antitumor ability of these cells and confirmed their efficacy against lung adenocarcinoma. First, we evaluated EphB4 and EphA2 expression in samples from 74 patients with lung adenocarcinoma using immunohistochemistry. Next, EphB4 CAR-T cells were generated via piggyBac-mediated gene transfer, and their phenotype was evaluated. Subsequently, we conducted an antigen stimulation assay to assess the bispecificity of the EphB4 CAR-T cells. Finally, the antitumor effects of EphB4 CAR-T cells on lung adenocarcinoma cell lines were assessed. EphB4 and EphA2 positivity in lung adenocarcinoma samples was 93% and 100%, respectively. EphB4 CAR-T cells were successfully generated with high CAR positivity and a high proportion of naïve/stem cell memory-like T cells. In the antigen stimulation assay, the cells responded in an antigen-specific manner after stimulation with both EphB4 and EphA2 proteins. In the co-culture experiment, EphB4 CAR-T cells significantly suppressed the growth of all four lung adenocarcinoma cell lines compared to mock-T cells. In vivo, mice treated with EphB4 CAR-T cells displayed a significantly lower tumor burden than those treated with either CD19 CAR-T cells or phosphate-buffered saline. Additionally, mice treated with EphB4 CAR-T cells survived significantly longer than those in the other groups. In conclusion, ligand-based EphB4 CAR-T cells are bispecific, targeting both EphB4 and EphA2. Furthermore, these cells exert significant antitumor effects against lung adenocarcinoma.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
The receptor tyrosine kinase EphB4 is frequently overexpressed in epithelial cancers, including prostate cancer (PCa). SUMOylation is a post-translational modification that influences protein interactions, localisation and stability. This study investigated how SUMOylation regulates EphB4 localisation, stability and function in PCa.EphB4 SUMOylation was analysed in PCa cell lines and its contribution to stability assessed using siRNA or chemical inhibition of SUMOylation. An EphB4 mutant protein (K616R) was expressed in PCa cells and proteasomal inhibition was used to assess its stability. Cell migration was measured using a scratch wound assay. Immunoprecipitation was used to determine if mutant EphB4 could be SUMOylated on other residues.EphB4 in PCa cells is constitutively modified by SUMO2/3 and acquires SUMO1 modification when stimulated with ephrin-B2 ligand. SUMOylation of K616 is critical for EphB4 stability. K616R EphB4 protein is degraded by the proteasome, and this is associated with reduced MYC protein and slower migration. Immunoprecipitation revealed that additional SUMOylated lysines may also contribute to EphB4 function.SUMOylation at K616 stabilises EphB4, promotes MYC signalling and PCa cell migration. These findings identify a novel mechanism regulating EphB4 and highlight SUMOylation as a potential target in EphB4-driven cancers.© 2026. The Author(s).
Ankyrin2 (ANK2) has been found to be abnormally overexpressed in myocardial infarction (MI) cell models, but its role and related mechanisms in MI progression have not been explored. Cardiomyocytes (AC16) were subjected to hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) treatment to mimic MI cell models, and ischemia/reperfusion (I/R)-induced myocardial injury was used to establish MI rat models. Cell viability, apoptosis and mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) depolarization were analyzed by CCK8 assay, flow cytometry and JC-1 staining. The levels of inflammatory-related factors and ferroptosis-related markers were determined by commercial kits. ANK2 and ubiquitin-specific peptidase 46 (USP46) protein levels were analyzed using western blot. Cycloheximide treatment assay and ubiquitination assay were used to confirm the regulation of USP46 on ANK2 protein stability and ubiquitination level. After H/R treatment, AC16 cell viability was reduced, while apoptosis, inflammation and ferroptosis were enhanced. ANK2 was upregulated in H/R-induced AC16 cells, and its knockdown repressed H/R-induced cardiomyocyte apoptosis, inflammation and ferroptosis. USP46 enhanced ANK2 protein stability and expression by deubiquitination. Overexpression of ANK2 also reversed the inhibition effect of USP46 knockdown on H/R-induced cardiomyocyte injury. In addition, downregulation of USP46 alleviated myocardial injury in I/R-induced rat models by decreasing ANK2 expression. USP46-stabilized ANK2 promoted cardiomyocyte apoptosis, inflammation and ferroptosis to aggravate MI process.© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Uncovering protein interaction networks in vivo is essential for understanding physiological and pathological processes. Here, we report the generation of a novel knock-in mouse model expressing miniTurbo, a highly active biotin ligase, fused to the endogenous Usp46 gene. This model enables proximity-dependent biotin labeling (BioID) of USP46-associated proteins in the brain. In adult mice, biotinylation was induced by feeding a 0.1% biotin diet. We further evaluated whether the combination of miniTurbo and dietary biotin supplementation is effective for BioID in the developing brain. Biotinylation was successfully induced in embryonic and neonatal brains via maternal biotin intake, demonstrating the transfer of biotin to the offspring through the placenta during pregnancy and through milk during lactation. This strategy enables proximity labeling under physiological conditions without invasive procedures, such as repetitive subcutaneous injections, during developmental stages. Using mass spectrometry, we identified USP46-proximal proteins, including known cofactors WDR48 and WDR20, in the adult brain. Gene Ontology analysis revealed enrichment in postsynaptic pathways, consistent with known localization of USP46. Among the identified proteins, PLPP3, a phospholipid phosphatase, was significantly downregulated in the hippocampus of Usp46-knockout mice. These findings establish the USP46-miniTurbo knock-in mouse as a powerful tool for in vivo interactome analysis and provide new insights into the molecular functions of USP46 in the brain.
Ubiquitin-specific peptidase 46 (USP46) is frequently underexpressed in several cancers. Its involvement and functional role in prostate cancer, however, are not well understood. This research focused on exploring how USP46 may suppress prostate cancer and its underlying mechanisms. USP46 mRNA levels in clinical prostate cancer samples were analyzed using the online The University of Alabama at Birmingham Cancer Data Analysis Portal (UALCAN) database. The expression of USP46 mRNA and protein was analyzed using RT-PCR and immunoblotting techniques. Cell proliferation, colony formation assays, and tumor growth curves were assessed by Cell Counting Kit-8 assay, crystal violet staining, and xenograft model, respectively. USP46's interaction with beclin 1 (BECN1) was evaluated using immunoprecipitation assays, whereas BECN1 knockdown was performed with siRNA. USP46 mRNA expression was significantly lower in prostate cancer cells compared to that in normal cells. Overexpression of USP46 significantly reduced cell proliferation, as shown by decreased cell viability and fewer colonies. Mechanistic studies demonstrated that USP46 interacted with and stabilized BECN1, supported by findings showing that USP46 overexpression increased BECN1 levels and delayed its degradation in prostate cancer cells treated with cycloheximide. Additionally, knockdown of BECN1 and inhibition of autophagy partially restored cell proliferation in USP46-overexpressing cells. USP46 interacts with and stabilizes BECN1, promoting autophagy and thereby suppressing prostate cancer cell proliferation. In conclusion, the current findings demonstrate that USP46 abolishes cell survival of prostate cancer via enhancing BECN1-dependent autophagy.© 2025 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.
Protein ubiquitination extensively modulates protein functions and controls various biological processes, such as protein degradation, signal transduction, transcription, and DNA repair. Ubiquitination is a reversible post-translational modification, and deubiquitinating enzymes cleave ubiquitin from proteins. Ubiquitin-specific peptidase 46 (USP46), a deubiquitinase, is highly expressed in the brain and regulates neural functions. Deleting lysine 92 (ΔK92) in USP46 reduces murine depression-like behavior in the tail suspension test. However, the molecular basis for USP46's role in regulating neural function has not yet been fully understood. Here we employed a proximity-dependent biotinylation approach to characterize the USP46 protein interaction partners. Using homology-independent targeted integration (HITI), a genome editing technique, we established knockin cell lines that stably express USP46 wildtype- or ΔK92-biotin ligase fusion protein. We identified 286 candidate interaction partners, including well-known binding partners of USP46. Although there were no obvious differences in the interactome of USP46 between wildtype and ΔK92, a gene ontology analysis revealed that centrosome-related proteins were significantly enriched in the proximal proteins of USP46. Several centrosome-related proteins were bound to USP46 in Neuro2a cells, but their protein expression levels were not affected in the brains of USP46-deficient mice. These results uncover a potential relationship between USP46 and centrosome regulation independently of protein stabilization.© 2024 The Author(s). FEBS Open Bio published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Ubiquitin-specific peptidase 46 (USP46) functions as a deubiquitinating enzyme, facilitating the removal of ubiquitin molecules attached to substrate proteins and playing a critical role in cancer and neurodegenerative diseases. However, its function in innate antiviral immunity is unknown. In this study we cloned and identified bcUSP46, a homolog of USP46 from black carp. We discovered that overexpression of bcUSP46 enhanced the transcription of interferon (IFN) promoters and increased the expression of IFN, PKR, and Mx1. In addition, bcUSP46 knockdown significantly inhibited the expression of ISG genes, as well as the antiviral activity of the host cells. Interestingly, when bcUSP46 was co-expressed with the RLR factors, it significantly enhanced the activity of the IFN promoter mediated by these factors, especially TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1). The subsequent co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) and immunofluorescence (IF) assay confirmed the association between bcUSP46 and bcTBK1. Noteworthily, co-expression of bcUSP46 with bcTBK1 led to an elevation of bcTBK1 protein level. Further analysis revealed that bcUSP46 stabilized bcTBK1 by eliminating the K48-linked ubiquitination of bcTBK1. Overall, our findings highlight the unique role of USP46 in modulating TBK1/IFN signaling and enrich our knowledge of the function of deubiquitination in regulating innate immunity in vertebrates.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Salidroside shows an inhibitory effect on myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury; however, the underlying mechanism remains to be explored. The present work analyzes the mechanism that drives salidroside to ameliorate I/R-induced human cardiomyocyte injury. Human cardiomyocytes were subjected to I/R treatment to simulate a myocardial infarction cell model. Cell viability, cell proliferation, and cell apoptosis were analyzed by CCK-8 assay, EdU assay, and flow cytometry analysis, respectively. RNA expression levels of circ_0097682, miR-671-5p, and F-box and ubiquitin-specific peptidase 46 (USP46) were detected by qRT-PCR. Protein expression was measured by Western blotting assay. The levels of IL-6, IL-1β, and TNF-α in cell supernatant were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Salidroside treatment relieved I/R-induced inhibitory effect on AC16 cell proliferation and promoting effects on cell apoptosis, inflammation, and oxidative stress. Salidroside inhibited circ_0097682 expression in I/R-treated AC16 cells. Salidroside-mediated inhibition of I/R-induced cell injury involved the downregulation of circ_0097682 expression. In addition, circ_0097682 bound to miR-671-5p in AC16 cells, and miR-671-5p inhibitors rescued salidroside pretreatment-mediated effects in I/R-treated AC16 cells. Moreover, miR-671-5p targeted USP46 in AC16 cells, and USP46 introduction partially relieved circ_0097682 depletion or salidroside pretreatment-induced effects in I/R-treated AC16 cells. Salidroside ameliorated I/R-induced AC16 cell injury by inhibiting the circ_0097682/miR-671-5p/USP46 pathway.© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Introduction: Dynamic proteolysis, through the ubiquitin-proteasome system, has an important role in DNA transcription and cell cycle, and is considered to modulate cell stress response and synaptic plasticity. We investigated whether genetic variants in the ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase 46 (USP46) would be associated with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in people with exposure to combat trauma using a case-control candidate gene association design. Methods: Korean male veterans exposed to the Vietnam War were grouped into those with (n = 128) and without (n = 128) PTSD. Seven tagging SNPs of USP46 were selected, and single-marker and haplotype-based association analyses were performed. All analyses were adjusted for sociodemographic factors and levels of combat exposure severity and alcohol problem. Results: One single-marker (rs2244291) showed nominal evidence of association with PTSD status and with the "re-experiencing" cluster, although the association was not significant after Bonferroni correction. No significant association with the other SNPs or the haplotypes was detected. Conclusion: The present finding suggests preliminarily that genetic vulnerability regarding the ubiquitin-proteasome system may be related to fear memory processes and the development of PTSD symptoms after trauma exposure. Further studies with a larger sample size will be needed to examine the role of the ubiquitin-proteasome system including USP46 in PTSD.Copyright © 2021 Seo, Kim, Kim, Choi, So and Kang.
Endometrial cancer (EC) ranks as the fourth most common diagnosed cancer type in females worldwide. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are important regulators with crucial roles in regulating diverse biologic processes, including tumor initiation and progression. Previous studies have demonstrated that miR-27a was correlated with the tumorigenesis of various cancers. However, its expression and biologic role in EC remain to be determined. This study aimed to clarify whether miR-27a acts as an oncogene in endometrial cancer (EC) by downregulating ubiquitin specific peptidase 46 (USP46). Expression of miR-27a was measured by qRT-PCR, and the results demonstrated that miR-27a was upregulated in EC cell lines compared to normal cell lines. Cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) and wound-healing assays demonstrated that overexpression of miR-27a significantly promoted cell proliferation and migration. Online prediction algorithm and dual luciferase activity reporter assay revealed that USP46 acts as a direct target of miR-27a. USP46 expression was downregulated in EC cell lines during miR-27a overexpression. Collectively, our results indicated that miR-27a targets USP46 to promote EC cell proliferation and migration, suggesting an oncogene role of miR-27a in EC.IJCEP Copyright © 2021.
Ovarian cancer (OC) is a major contributor to cancer‑related mortality in women. Despite numerous drugs being available for the treatment and improving the prognosis of OC, resistance to clinical chemotherapy remains a major obstacle for the treatment of advanced OC. Therefore, determining how to reverse the chemoresistance of OC has become a research hotspot in recent years. The present study aimed to reveal the potential mechanism of OC chemoresistance. Reverse transcription‑quantitative PCR and western blot analysis were performed to detect the expression levels of Ubiquitin‑specific peptidase 46 (USP46) and Pumilio 2 (PUM2) in OC. Cell viability and apoptosis were evaluated by Cell Counting Kit‑8 assay and flow cytometry, respectively. The association between USP46 and PUM2 was assessed by RNA immunoprecipitation. The results of the present study revealed that the expression levels of USP46 which is associated with tumor progression, was downregulated, while PUM2 expression levels were upregulated in cisplatin (DDP)‑resistant OC cells and patient tissues. The downregulation of USP46 expression levels in SKOV3 cells significantly inhibited cell apoptosis and increased cell viability. In SKOV3/DDP cells, the upregulation of USP46 expression levels notably suppressed cell viability and increased cell apoptosis. The results of the RNA immunoprecipitation chip assay demonstrated that PUM2 bound to USP46 and regulated its expression. Furthermore, following the knockdown of USP46 expression, the mRNA and protein expression levels of the cell apoptosis‑related protein, Bcl‑2, were upregulated, whereas the expression levels of caspase‑3, caspase‑9 and Bax were significantly downregulated. In addition, phosphorylated AKT expression levels were notably upregulated. Following the overexpression of USP46 in SKOV3/DDP cells, the opposite trends were observed. In SKOV3 cells, the knockdown of PUM2 could reverse the DDP resistance induced by small interfering RNA‑USP46 as the expression levels of Bcl‑2 were downregulated whereas those of caspase‑3, caspase‑9 and Bax were upregulated compared with the small interfering‑USP46 group. Similarly, in SKOV3/DDP cells, the overexpression of PUM2 could reverse DDP sensitivity induced by the overexpression of USP46. In conclusion, the findings of the present study suggested that the downregulation of USP46 expression levels may promote DDP resistance in OC, which may be regulated by PUM2. Therefore, targeting PUM2/USP46 may be an effective way to reverse DDP resistance in OC.
The calcium-activated phosphatase PPP3/calcineurin dephosphorylates TFEB (transcription factor EB) to trigger its nuclear translocation and the activation of macroautophagic/autophagic targets. However, the detailed molecular mechanism regulating TFEB activation remains poorly understood. Here, we highlighted the importance of SMURF1 (SMAD specific E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1) in the activation of TFEB for lysosomal homeostasis. SMURF1 deficiency prevents the calcium-triggered ubiquitination of the catalytic subunit of PPP3/calcineurin in a manner consistent with defective autophagic degradation of damaged lysosomes. Mechanically, PPP3CB/CNA2 plays a bridging role in the recruitment of SMURF1 by LGALS3 (galectin 3) upon lysosome damage. Importantly, PPP3CB increases the dissociation of the N-terminal tail (NT) and C-terminal carbohydrate-recognition domain (CRD) of LGALS3, which may promote the formation of open conformers in a PPP3CB dephosphorylation activity-dependent manner. In addition, PPP3CB is ubiquitinated at lysine 146 by the recruited SMURF1 in response to intracellular calcium stimulation. The K63-linked ubiquitination of PPP3CB enhances the recruitment of TFEB. Moreover, TFEB directly interacts with both PPP3CB and the regulatory subunit PPP3R1 which facilitate the conformational correction of TFEB for its activation for the transcription of TFEB-targeted genes. Altogether, our results highlighted a critical mechanism for the regulation of PPP3/calcineurin activity via its ubiquitin ligase SMURF1 in response to lysosomal membrane damage, which may account for a potential target for the treatment of stress-related diseases.Abbreviation AID: autoinhibitory domain; ATG: autophagy related; CD: catalytic domain; CRD: carbohydrate-recognition domain; CsA: cyclosporin A; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complexes required for transport; GSK3B: glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta; LAMP1: lysosomal associated membrane protein 1; LGALS3: galectin 3; LLOMe: L-leucyl-L-leucine methyl ester; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; ML-SA1: mucolipin synthetic agonist 1; MTORC1: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase complex 1; NT: N-terminal tail; PPP3CB: protein phosphatase 3 catalytic subunit beta; PPP3R1: protein phosphatase 3 regulatory subunit B, alpha; SMURF1: SMAD specific E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TFEB: transcription factor EB; VCP/p97: valosin containing protein; YWHA/14-3-3: tyrosine 3-monooxygenase/tryptophan 5-monooxygenase activation protein.
Aging of mesenchymal stem cells(MSCs) has been widely reported to be strongly associated with aging-related diseases, including osteoporosis (OP). In particular, the beneficial functions of mesenchymal stem cells decline with age, limiting their therapeutic efficacy in age-related bone loss diseases. Therefore, how to improve mesenchymal stem cell aging to treat age-related bone loss is the current research focus. However, the underlying mechanism remains unclear. In this study, protein phosphatase 3, regulatory subunit B, alpha isoform, calcineurin B, type I (PPP3R1) was found to accelerate the senescence of mesenchymal stem cells, resulting in reduced osteogenic differentiation and enhanced adipogenic differentiation in vitro. Mechanistically, PPP3R1 induces changes in membrane potential to promote cellular senescence by polarizing to depolarizing, increasing Ca2+ influx and activating downstream NFAT/ATF3/p53 signaling. In conclusion, the results identify a novel pathway of mesenchymal stem cell aging that may lead to novel therapeutic approaches for age-related bone loss.
Acetaminophen (APAP) overdose is the predominant cause of drug-induced liver injury worldwide. The macroautophagy/autophagy-lysosomal pathway (ALP) is involved in the APAP hepatotoxicity. TFEB (transcription factor EB) promotes the expression of genes related to autophagy and lysosomal biogenesis, thus, pharmacological activation of TFEB-mediated ALP may be an effective therapeutic approach for treating APAP-induced liver injury. We aimed to reveal the effects of narirutin (NR), the main bioactive constituents isolated from citrus peels, on APAP hepatotoxicity and to explore its underlying mechanism. Administration of NR enhanced activities of antioxidant enzymes, improved mitochondrial dysfunction and alleviated liver injury in APAP-treated mice, whereas NR did not affect APAP metabolism and MAPK/JNK activation. NR enhanced TFEB transcriptional activity and activated ALP in an MTOR complex 1 (MTORC1)-independent but PPP3/calcineurin-dependent manner. Moreover, knockout of Tfeb or knockdown of PPP3CB/CNA2 (protein phosphatase 3, catalytic subunit, beta isoform) in the liver abolished the beneficial effects of NR on APAP overdose. Mechanistically, NR bound to PPP3CB via PRO31, LYS61 and PRO347 residues and enhanced PPP3/calcineurin activity, thereby eliciting dephosphorylation of TFEB and promoting ALP, which alleviated APAP-induced oxidative stress and liver injury. Together, NR protects against APAP-induced liver injury by activating a PPP3/calcineurin-TFEB-ALP axis, indicating NR may be a potential agent for treating APAP overdose.Abbreviations: ALP: autophagy-lysosomal pathway; APAP: acetaminophen; APAP-AD: APAP-protein adducts; APAP-Cys: acetaminophen-cysteine adducts; CAT: catalase; CETSA: cellular thermal shift assay; CQ: chloroquine; CYP2E1: cytochrome P450, family 2, subfamily e, polypeptide 1; CYCS/Cyt c: cytochrome c, somatic; DARTS: drug affinity responsive target stability assay; ENGASE/NAG: endo-beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase; GOT1/AST: glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1, soluble; GPT/ALT: glutamic pyruvic transaminase, soluble; GSH: glutathione; GPX/GSH-Px: glutathione peroxidase; KD: dissociation constant; Leu: leupeptin; MCOLN1: mucolipin 1; MTORC1: MTOR complex 1; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; NAPQI: N-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine; NFAT: nuclear factor of activated T cells; NR: narirutin; OA: okadaic acid; RRAG: Ras related GTP binding; ROS: reactive oxygen species; PPP3CB/CNA2: protein phosphatase 3, catalytic subunit, beta isoform; PPP3R1/CNB1: protein phosphatase 3, regulatory subunit B, alpha isoform (calcineurin B, type I); SOD: superoxide dismutase; SPR: surface plasmon resonance analysis; TFEB: transcription factor EB.
Decorin (DCN) is a leucine-rich proteoglycan produced by chorionic villus mesenchymal cells anddecidual cells during human pregnancy. Studies from our laboratory demonstrated that decidua-derived DCN restrains multiple trophoblast functions including proliferation, migration, invasion andendovascular differentiation, mediated by DCN-binding to multiple tyrosine kinase receptors; expressed by the trophoblast. Furthermore, DCN was shown to be selectively over-produced by thedecidua in preeclampsia (PE) subjects and elevated in the second trimester maternal plasma in PE, before the appearance of clinical signs, presenting as a predictive biomarker for PE. Micro (mi)RNAs are single-stranded non-coding RNAs (17-25 nucleotides) that typically downregulate target genes by repressing translation or facilitating degradation of mRNAs. The human; placenta expresses many miRNAs, some of which are exclusively expressed by the trophoblast. Many; of these miRNAs are dysregulated in PE-associated placentas and some appear in the maternal blood as PE biomarkers. However, little is known about their contribution to the pathogenesis of PE, a multi-factorial disease associated with a hypo-invasive placenta. The objective of the present study was to examine whether exposure of extravillous trophoblast (EVT) to DCN affects expression of specific miRNAs, and to test the role of these miRNAs in altering EVT functions. We identified miR-512-3p, as one of the DCN-induced miRNAs, also upregulated in PE placentas. It was shown to be elevated in ectopic DCN-over-expressing or exogenous DCN-treated first trimester human trophoblast cell line HTR-8/SVneo. Use of miRNA-mimics and inhibitors revealed that miR-512-3p compromised trophoblast migration, invasion and VEGF-dependent endovascular differentiation. Finally, Protein Phosphatase 3 Regulatory Subunit B, Alpha (PPP3R1), a known target of miR-512-3p, was paradoxically elevated in miR-512-3p-overexpressing trophoblast and PE-associated placentas. Using Enrichr, a tool that consists of both a validated user-submitted gene list and a search engine for transcription factors, we found that PPP3R1 elevation resulted from the miRNA binding to and targeting Upstream Transcription Factor 2 (USF2) which targeted PPP3R1. These findings reveal a novel aspect of pathogenesis of PE and biomarker potentials of this miRNA in PE.Copyright © 2022 Halari, Nandi, Sidhu, Sbirnac, Zheng and Lala.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common cardiac arrhythmia. This study aimed to identify potential novel biomarkers for persistent AF (pAF) using integrated analyses and explore the immune cell infiltration in this pathological process. Three pAF datasets (GSE31821, GSE41177, and GSE79768) from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database were integrated with the elimination of batch effects. 264 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified using Linear models for microarray data (LIMMA), 12 modules were screened out by weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) in pAF compared with normal controls. Subsequently, common genes (CGs) were identified as the intersection of DEGs and genes in the most significant module. Functional enrichment analysis showed that CGs were mainly enriched in the "Calcineurin-NFAT (nuclear factor of activated T-cells)" signaling pathway, particularly regulator of calcineurin 1 (RCAN1), and protein phosphatase 3 regulatory subunit B, alpha (PPP3R1). Ulteriorly, the microRNA-transcription factor-mRNA network revealed that microRNA-34a-5p could target both RCAN1 and PPP3R1 in the pAF pathogenesis. Finally, immune infiltration analysis by CIBERSORT, a versatile computational method, displayed a higher level of monocytes, dendritic cells and neutrophils, as well as a lower level of CD8+ T cells and T cells regulatory (Tregs) in pAF compared with the control group. In conclusion, our present study revealed several novel pAF-associated genes, miRNAs, and pathways, including microRNA-34a-5p, which might target RCAN1 and PPP3R1 to regulate pAF through the calcineurin-NFAT signaling pathway. In addition, there was a difference in immune infiltration between patients with pAF and normal groups and immune cells might interact with specific genes in pAF.
Hippocalcin (HPCA), a neuron-enriched calcium-binding protein, plays a critical role in brain function, but its role in neural precursor cells remains unclear. N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are calcium-permeable glutamate receptors essential for neurodevelopment and synaptic plasticity, and their function has been implicated in neurological conditions. In this study, we investigated the role of HPCA in regulating NMDA receptor expression and function in mouse hippocampal neural precursor cells (mHNPCs). HPCA knockdown significantly reduced the expression of NMDA receptor-related genes, including Grin2C, Shank1, Serpine2, and selectively attenuated NMDA-induced calcium signaling. Transcriptomic analysis identified ELAV-like RNA-binding protein 3 (Elavl3), a neuron-enriched factor associated with neuronal activity, as a downstream candidate affected by HPCA knockdown. Consistently, Elavl3 suppression phenocopied HPCA deficiency, resulting in impaired NMDA receptor activity and reduced neuronal differentiation. Furthermore, hippocampal HPCA knockdown in vivo led to alterations in locomotor activity, contextual memory, and affective behaviors. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that HPCA supports NMDA receptor function and neuronal development, in part through Elavl3-associated pathways, and highlight HPCA as an important regulator of hippocampal function.
Alterations in extracellular matrix (ECM) architecture and stiffness are hallmarks of aggressive pancreatic cancer progression. However, the mechanisms by which ECM biomechanical properties regulate malignant biological behavior remain unknown. Here, we reveal that calmodulin-dependent protein kinase doublecortin-like kinase 1 (DCLK1) integrates biomechanical signaling and promotes pancreatic cancer cell progression. DCLK1 expression and activation are selectively induced under conditions of high biomechanical stress mediated through the piezo-type mechanosensitive ion channel component 1 (PIEZO1)/calcium/hippocalcin-like protein 1 (HPCAL1) pathway. Consistently, in solid tumor experiments, DCLK1 overexpression under low stiffness conditions facilitates rapid tumor progression and chemoresistance, whereas using calcium inhibitors can partially reverse the adverse effects of DCLK1 overexpression. Conversely, under high stiffness conditions, DCLK1 knockdown inhibits tumor growth and enhances chemosensitivity but attenuates the sensitizing effect of combined calcium inhibitor treatment on chemotherapy efficacy. Mechanistically, DCLK1 interacts with phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinase type 1 alpha (PIP5K1A) by inhibiting its threonine phosphorylation, thereby facilitating PIP5K1A membrane localization. This activates the downstream phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-protein kinase B (PI3K-AKT) signaling pathway, promoting cancer cell proliferation and chemoresistance. Collectively, these findings establish DCLK1 functions as a context-specific amplifier, exacerbating aggressive tumor progression and chemotherapy resistance in pancreatic cancer. Targeting the calcium/DCLK1 signaling axis may therefore enhance the efficacy of adjuvant therapies in pancreatic cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML), a heterogeneous malignancy with complex molecular mechanisms, urgently requires improved prognostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets. This study investigated Hippocalcin-like 1（HPCAL1）, a calcium-binding protein with dual functionality dependent on cancer type, as a potential prognostic marker and investigated its interaction with the tumor immune microenvironment in AML. Through analyses of multiple independent cohorts (GSE13159, GSE34184, GSE24395 and institutional data), we revealed that significant HPCAL1 overexpression in AML samples was correlated with poor survival outcomes. ESTIMATE analysis revealed increased immune activity in the HPCAL1-high group, which was supported by differential expression profiling, which identified 617 genes enriched in inflammatory/immune pathways. Coexpression network and protein interaction analyses further implicated HPCAL1 in immune regulation, particularly through NOD-like receptor signaling, as confirmed by GSEA/GSVA. Single-cell RNA sequencing analysis of the GSE130756 dataset revealed monocyte-specific HPCAL1 expression with altered cellular communication patterns in AML, whereas deconvolution analysis revealed that increased monocyte proportions in HPCAL1-high samples were associated with adverse prognoses. Our findings establish HPCAL1 as a novel prognostic indicator in AML, potentially by mediating its effects through immune microenvironment modulation and monocyte population dynamics. These results provide a foundation for future mechanistic studies exploring the role of HPCAL1 in AML pathogenesis and its therapeutic potential.© 2025. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41115498 is a review article
Biallelic pathogenic variants in the HPCA gene cause HPCA-associated dystonia (DYT-HPCA), a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by generalized dystonia and complex motor symptoms. HPCA encodes hippocalcin, a Ca2+ sensor that modulates neuronal activity through K+ channel activation. Here, we describe the clinical and molecular features of two children with novel HPCA variants and assess the impact of deep brain stimulation (DBS) (globus pallidus internus [Gpi]-DBS) on their movement disorders.Two sisters with HPCA variants (c.91_98del/p.Tyr31Leufs14) were evaluated. Functional studies in fibroblasts from one sister and a previously reported case (HPCA c.49C > T/p.Arg17) analyzed Ca2+ signaling and K+ channel activity. One sister underwent GPi-DBS, with therapeutic response monitored using the Burke-Fahn-Marsden Dystonia Rating Scale and the Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale.GPi-DBS improved dystonia and chorea in one patient, reducing Burke-Fahn-Marsden scores by 51%. Fibroblast analyses showed no differences in Ca2+ signaling or K+ channel activation between cells expressing mutated HPCA and wild-type HPCA.Preliminary evidence from a single pediatric patient suggests that GPi-DBS may be effective for DYT-HPCA in children, but the molecular mechanisms remain unclear, highlighting the need for further research.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Signaling lipids are important hormone-like biomolecules that regulate many physiological processes in humans. However, a significant number of them still remain poorly characterized, despite their direct association to human diseases. While the signaling pathways regulated by the endocannabinoid 2-arachidonoyl-glycerol in mammals are extensively characterized, the same cannot be said about other members of the monoacylglycerol (MAG) family of signaling lipids. Here, we report the synthesis of a bifunctional MAG probe, containing a photoreactive group and an alkyne handle. Using established chemoproteomics approaches coupled to bioorthogonal chemistry, we profile this bifunctional MAG probe in mouse brain and mammalian cell proteomes, and identify hitherto unknown protein ligands for MAG lipids. Finally, we find that the neuronal calcium sensor Hippocalcin is indeed a putative MAG protein ligand, and show that MAG lipids may have a role to play in calcium sensing and downstream signaling in the mammalian brain.© 2025. The Author(s).
The progression of liver fibrosis involves complex interactions between hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) and multiple immune cells in the liver, including macrophages. However, the mechanism of exosomes in the crosstalk between liver macrophages and HSCs remains unclear.Exosomes were extracted from primary mouse macrophages and cultured with HSCs, and the differential expression of microRNAs was evaluated using high-throughput sequencing technology. The functions of miR-342-3p in exosomes were verified by qPCR and luciferase reporter gene experiments with HSCs. The function of the target gene Hippocalcin-like protein 1 (HPCAL1) in HSCs was verified by Western blotting, qPCR, cellular immunofluorescence and co-IP in vivo and in vitro.We demonstrated that exosomal microRNA-342-3p derived from primary liver macrophages could activate HSCs by inhibiting the expression of HPCAL1 in HSCs. HPCAL1, which is a fibrogenesis suppressor, could inhibit TGF-β signaling in HSCs by regulating the ubiquitination of Smad2 through direct interactions with its EF-hand 4 domain.This study reveals a previously unidentified profibrotic mechanism of crosstalk between macrophages and HSCs in the liver and suggests an attractive novel therapeutic strategy for treating fibroproliferative liver diseases.© 2025. The Author(s).
Real-time and non-invasive monitoring of neuronal differentiation will help increase our understanding of neuronal development and help develop regenerative stem cell therapies for neurodegenerative diseases. Traditionally, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), western blotting, and immunofluorescence (IF) staining have been widely used to investigate stem cell differentiation; however, their limitations include endpoint analysis, invasive nature of monitoring, and lack of single-cell-level resolution. Several limitations hamper current approaches to studying neural stem cell (NSC) differentiation. In particular, fixation and staining procedures can introduce artificial changes in cellular morphology, hindering our ability to accurately monitor the progression of the process and fully understand its functional aspects, particularly those related to cellular connectivity and neural network formation. Herein, we report a novel approach to monitor neuronal differentiation of NSCs non-invasively in real-time using cell-based biosensors (CBBs). Our research efforts focused on utilizing intein-mediated protein engineering to design and construct a highly sensitive biosensor capable of detecting a biomarker of neuronal differentiation, hippocalcin. Hippocalcin is a critical protein involved in neurogenesis, and the CBB functions by translocating a fluorescence signal to report the presence of hippocalcin externally. To construct the hippocalcin sensor proteins, hippocalcin bioreceptors, AP2 and glutamate ionotropic receptor AMPA-type subunit 2 (GRIA2), were fused to each split-intein carrying split-nuclear localization signal (NLS) peptides, respectively, and a fluorescent protein was introduced as a reporter. Protein splicing (PS) was triggered in the presence of hippocalcin to generate functional signal peptides, which promptly translocated the fluorescence signal to the nucleus. The stem cell-based biosensor showed fluorescence signal translocation only upon neuronal differentiation. Undifferentiated stem cells or cells that had differentiated into astrocytes or oligodendrocytes did not show fluorescence signal translocation. The number of differentiated neurons was consistent with that measured by conventional IF staining. Furthermore, this approach allowed for the monitoring of neuronal differentiation at an earlier stage than that detected using conventional approaches, and the translocation of fluorescence signal was monitored before the noticeable expression of class III β-tubulin (TuJ1), an early neuronal differentiation marker. We believe that these novel CBBs offer an alternative to current techniques by capturing the dynamics of differentiation progress at the single-cell level and by providing a tool to evaluate how NSCs efficiently differentiate into specific cell types, particularly neurons.
Subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is one of the most severe type of cerebral strokes, which can cause multiple cellular changes in the brain leading to neuronal injury and neurological deficits. Specifically, SAH can impair adult neurogenesis in the hippocampal dentate gyrus, thus may affecting poststroke neurological and cognitive recovery. Here, we identified a non-canonical role of milk fat globule epidermal growth factor 8 (MFGE8) in rat brain after experimental SAH, involving a stimulation on adult hippocampal neurogenesis(AHN). Experimental SAH was induced in Sprague-Dawley rats via endovascular perforation, with the in vivo effect of MFGE8 evaluated via the application of recombinant human MFGE8 (rhMFGE8) along with pharmacological interventions, as determined by hemorrhagic grading, neurobehavioral test, and histological and biochemical analyses of neurogenesis related markers. Results: Levels of the endogenous hippocampal MFGE8 protein, integrin-β3 and protein kinase B (p-Akt) were elevated in the SAH relative to control groups, while that of hippocalcin (HPCA) and cyclin D1 showed the opposite change. Intraventricular rhMGFE8 infusion reversed the decrease in doublecortin (DCX) immature neurons in the DG after SAH, along with improved the short/long term neurobehavioral scores. rhMGFE8 treatment elevated the levels of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), p-Akt, mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), CyclinD1, HPCA and DCX in hippocampal lysates, but not that of integrin β3 and Akt, at 24 hr after SAH. Treatment of integrin β3 siRNA, the PI3K selective inhibitor ly294002 or Akt selective inhibitor MK2206 abolished the effects of rhMGFE8 after SAH. In conclusion, MFGE8 is upregulated in the hippocampus in adult rats with reduced granule cell genesis. rhMFGE8 administration can rescue this impaired adult neurogenesis and improve neurobehavioral recovery. Mechanistically, the effect of MFGE8 on hippocampal adult neurogenesis is mediated by the activation of integrin β3/Akt pathway. These findings suggest that exogenous MFGE8 may be of potential therapeutic value in SAH management. Graphical abstract and proposed pathway of rhMFGE8 administration attenuate hippocampal injury by improving neurogenesis in SAH models. SAH caused hippocampal injury and neurogenesis interruption. Administered exogenous MFGE8, recombinant human MFGE8(rhMFGE8), could ameliorate hippocampal injury and improve neurological functions after SAH. Mechanistically, MFGE8 bind to the receptor integrin β3, which activated the PI3K/Akt pathway to increase the mTOR expression, and further promote the expression of cyclin D1, HPCA and DCX. rhMFGE8 could attenuated hippocampal injury by improving neurogenesis after SAH, however, know down integrin β3 or pharmacological inhibited PI3K/Akt by ly294002 or MK2206 reversed the neuro-protective effect of rhMFGE8.© 2024. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42494468 is a review article
Chronic itch poses a significant clinical burden, with activation of the brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) pathway as a hallmark, though its transcriptional control remains unclear. We identify T-box transcription factor 20 (TBX20) as upregulated in skin of atopic dermatitis patients, with increased expression in NPR1+ keratinocytes. ChIP peak calling, ChIP-qPCR and dual-luciferase assays show TBX20 activates the NPR1 promoter. In mice, keratinocyte-specific TBX20 knockout (TBX20fl/fl; K14-Cre) reduces scratching, IL-4 and Oncostatin M levels, basophil markers, and decreases cutaneous NPR1 expression. TBX20 is also expressed in a subset of NPR1+ sensory neurons, and neuron-specific deletion similarly alleviates itch, basophil infiltration, and barrier dysfunction. RNA-seq identifies lipocalin-2 as a downstream effector of the TBX20-NPR1 axis, and its deletion reduces itch. Conversely, AAV-mediated TBX20 rescue exacerbates symptoms. Neuregulin 1 suppresses TBX20, attenuates IL-13-driven NPR1 signalling, and reduces itch. These findings define a TBX20-NPR1 axis as a critical regulator of chronic itch and skin dysfunction.© 2026. The Author(s).
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), a lethal X-linked disorder caused by loss of the full-length dystrophin Dp427, is characterized by progressive skeletal muscle degeneration, although increasing evidence indicates a broader neuromuscular dysfunction. Here, we identify impaired Schwann cell (SC) homeostasis in the sciatic nerve of dystrophic mdx mice. Integrated molecular, immunofluorescence, ultrastructural, and electrophysiological analyses demonstrate that sciatic nerves from 6 to 7-week-old mdx mice exhibit downregulation of key myelin proteins (MBP, P0, PMP22), compared with age-matched wild type mice. Despite preserved SC dystrophin isoforms (Dp116 and Dp71), core components of the dystrophin-associated glycoprotein complex (DGC), namely α- and β-dystroglycan and dystrobrevin, are significantly reduced. Concomitant activation of matrix metalloproteinases (MMP)-2 and MMP-9 is consistent with enhanced proteolytic processing and DGC destabilization. These alterations are accompanied by reduced mRNA and protein expression of GABA-A and GABA-B receptors and the GABA-synthesizing enzymes GAD65 and GAD67, indicating perturbed autocrine/paracrine GABAergic signaling at the SC-axon interface, further supported by altered neuregulin-1/ErbB2 signaling. Furthermore, sensory Aβ-fibers from mdx mice exhibit mild hypoexcitability, altered refractoriness, and impaired tolerance to high-frequency stimulation, consistent with impaired myelin integrity and diminished electrical insulation, confirmed by ultrastructural evidence of focal myelin abnormalities affecting a subset of nerve fibers. Notably, none of the parameters examined in 10-day-old mdx mice showed detectable alterations, suggesting that sciatic nerve abnormalities become evident after the onset of overt muscle degeneration. Altogether, these findings identify the sciatic nerve as a previously underappreciated site of disease-associated alterations in DMD and a potential target for future therapeutic investigations.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Respiratory viral infections cause significant mortality. Pre-existing atopy has demonstrated protection from virus-induced death. Atopic mice with house dust mite (HDM) extract survive normally lethal parainfluenza (Sendai virus, SeV) and influenza A (IAV) infection. Neuregulin-1 (NRG1), markedly elevated in airways of atopic mice, has been shown to significantly attenuate mortality to SeV and IAV in non-atopic mice. Hypothesizing that atopy and NRG1 mediate protection from death through similar mechanisms, we anazlyed single-cell RNA sequencing data from CD45+ (hematopoietic) and CD45- (structural) lung cells prior to infection. Both treatments reduced alveolar macrophages, lymphatic endothelial cells, airway smooth muscle cells, and pericytes, while increasing alveolar type 2 cells. However, atopy led to increased fibroblasts with reduced club cells compared to NRG1 treatment. Further, in the hematopoietic cell compartment, atopy drove an increase in more inflammatory cells than NRG1 and associated with significant upregulation of immune cell signaling pathways, something not seen with NRG1 administration. Moreover, NRG1 knockdown did not reverse the protection from virus-induced death in mice with pre-existing atopy. Taken together, these data strongly suggest that atopy and NRG1 mediate increased survival from a respiratory viral infection through disparate mechanisms.© 2026. The Author(s).
Doxorubicin (DOX) is an anthracycline chemotherapeutic agent widely used to treat a various cancer due to its potent therapeutic effects. However, its clinical application is limited by severe toxicity in multiple tissues particularly the heart, as well as liver, kidneys, and nervous system. Neuregulin-1 (NRG-1), an epidermal growth factor produced by cardiac endothelial cells, plays a protective role against these injuries by activating ErbB2/4 receptors and the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway. Evidence suggests that NRG-1 prevents myofibrillar damage and troponin degradation. In addition, exercise as a non-pharmacological intervention enhances these protective pathways by upregulation NRG-1 signaling and reducing cardiomyocytes apoptosis induced by DOX. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of eight weeks of high-intensity interval training (HIIT) on NRG-1/ErbB signaling pathway in male Wistar rats induced by DOX-induced cardiotoxicity. Twenty-four male Wistar rats were randomly assigned into three groups (n = 8 per group): control healthy, DOX control, and DOX-HIIT. Cardiotoxicity was induced by six intraperitoneal injections of DOX (2 mg/kg per dose) administrated over a 12-day period, while the healthy control group received normal saline. The exercise protocol consisted of eight weeks of HIIT, performed three times per week. Each session included a 5-min warm-up, five 4-min high-intensity interval (85-90% of maximum oxygen consumption [VO2max]) interspersed with 2-min active recovery (50-60% of VO2max), and a 5-min cool-down. The end of the intervention, cardiac tissue and blood samples were collected for analysis. Protein expression was assessed using Western blotting. Statistical analysis was performed using one-way ANOVA followed by Tukey's post hoc test. The results demonstrated that HIIT significantly improvements in left ventricular end-systolic diameter, stroke volume, ejection fraction, and fractional shortening compared to DOX-treated sedentary rats. These findings indicated that HIIT attenuates DOX-induced structural and functional cardiac impairment, potentially through modulation of the NRG-1/ErbB signaling pathway.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42395618 is a review article
Presently, to our knowledge, there are no approved targeted therapies for neuregulin 1 gene fusion-positive (NRG1+) cholangiocarcinoma. Zenocutuzumab, a HER2 × HER3 bispecific antibody, is approved for previously treated, advanced/metastatic NRG1+ non-small cell lung cancer and pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Here, we report results for 22 patients with NRG1+ cholangiocarcinoma in the eNRGy trial.eNRGy is a single-arm, phase II study of zenocutuzumab in advanced NRG1+ solid tumors. Patients were age 18 years and older and previously treated with or unsuitable for standard therapy. Zenocutuzumab 750 mg was administered intravenously once every 2 weeks. The primary end point was investigator-assessed overall response rate (ORR; RECIST v1.1). Secondary end points included duration of response (DOR), clinical benefit rate (CBR), progression-free survival (PFS), and safety.As of July 31, 2025, 22 patients (median age 57.5 years) with advanced NRG1+ cholangiocarcinoma were enrolled and had received a median of 1.0 (range, 0-6) prior therapies. In the 18 patients with tumor subtype data available, all had intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. Three patients did not meet the protocol-defined criteria for inclusion in the efficacy analysis. Seven of 19 patients achieved a response, resulting in an ORR of 36.8% (95% CI, 16.3 to 61.6). The median DOR was 7.4 months and the median time to response was 1.9 months. The CBR was 57.9% (95% CI, 33.5 to 79.7). Median PFS was 9.2 months (95% CI, 3.9 to 11.1). Most treatment-related adverse events (TRAEs) were grade 1 and 2, and the most common were diarrhea (27.3%), fatigue (18.2%), and nausea (13.6%). One patient had a grade 3 TRAE of anemia. No patients discontinued treatment due to an AE.Zenocutuzumab demonstrated clinically meaningful and durable antitumor activity with a favorable safety profile in patients with advanced NRG1+ cholangiocarcinoma.
Neuregulin-1 (NRG-1), the natural ligand for HER3 and HER4, has been established as an essential growth factor for heart function. Prior studies have demonstrated the therapeutic potential of NRG-1 in the treatment of heart failure, but HER3 receptor activation has been a concern given its cancer association. Here, we describe the novel antibody fusion protein JK07, consisting of an antagonistic HER3 antibody and the EGF-binding domain of NRG-1. We confirm the HER3 antibody and the NRG-1 domains both retain functional activity in vitro and in vivo. Importantly, we demonstrate here for the first time that preserving HER4 stimulation by NRG1 in the presence of attenuated HER3 stimulation is sufficient to realize the therapeutic effects of NRG-1 in treatment of heart failure. Comparing JK07 to a control NRG-1 antibody fusion which does not recognize HER3, we show that JK07 can achieve equivalent recovery of ejection fraction in a rodent model of chronic heart failure. Finally, JK07 exhibited therapeutic potential in heart failure in rhesus macaques. In conclusion, this work demonstrates selective HER4 activation is sufficient for NRG-1 to improve myocardial function in multiple pre-clinical heart failure models and that JK07 holds promise as a potential therapeutic intervention for heart failure.© 2026. The Author(s).
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is one of the most common neuropsychiatric conditions worldwide, with an increasing number of cases originating early in life, particularly during adolescence. However, the underlying mechanisms of depression arising during this critical developmental stage remain poorly understood. In this study, we established a mouse model of depression that was induced by 4-week social isolation immediately after weaning, which fulfilled the key criteria of the etiologic, face and predictive validity. Meanwhile, social isolation during adolescence also resulted in impaired GABAergic neurotransmission in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Furthermore, downregulation of neuregulin 1 (NRG1), a susceptibility gene for depression, in the mPFC mediated social isolation-induced depressive-like behaviors by ErbB4 receptors in PV interneuron. Importantly, a clinical anti-epileptic drug clonazepam (CZP), which is a positive allosteric modulator of GABAA receptor, reversed depressive-like behaviors in these isolated mice. Our findings thus establish an animal model of depression in adolescence and shed new light on the mechanisms underlying adolescent depression, which provide potential targets for its treatment.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Sepsis-induced cardiac injury lacks a mechanism-specific therapy, and loss of endogenous myocardial defense signaling may amplify inflammatory damage. We investigated whether recombinant neuregulin-1 (rNRG-1) protects against cecal ligation and puncture (CLP)-induced cardiac injury and whether stimulator of interferon genes (STING)-linked macrophage pyroptosis-associated signaling contributes to this response. Male mice underwent CLP or sham surgery. Myocardial NRG-1/ErbB4 signaling was assessed over time, rNRG-1 was administered intravenously at 25 μg/kg immediately before CLP, and cardiac function, injury markers, inflammatory infiltration, survival, cGAS-STING signaling, and pyroptosis-associated readouts were evaluated. AAV-mediated STING overexpression was used to test whether STING activation weakens rNRG-1-mediated protection. CLP rapidly reduced myocardial NRG-1 abundance and ErbB4 phosphorylation, while NRG-1 and ErbB4 signals were detectable in vascular, myocardial, and CD68-positive inflammatory-cell-rich compartments. rNRG-1 improved left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) and left ventricular fractional shortening (LVFS), reduced serum creatine kinase-MB (CK-MB) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), increased 14-day survival from 26.67% to 60.00%, and decreased myocardial CD68-positive macrophage accumulation and myeloperoxidase (MPO)-positive inflammatory cell infiltration. rNRG-1 also suppressed cGAS expression and the phosphorylation of STING, TBK1, IRF3, and NF-κB p65, while reducing NLRP3, cleaved caspase-1, GSDMD-N, and IL-18 levels, with fewer CD68-positive cells showing STING activation, downstream inflammatory signaling, or pyroptosis-associated markers. AAV-mediated STING overexpression worsened CLP-induced dysfunction and substantially weakened the functional, biochemical, inflammatory, and pyroptosis-associated signaling effects of rNRG-1. These findings indicate that polymicrobial sepsis is associated with reduced myocardial NRG-1/ErbB4 signaling and that rNRG-1 attenuates early septic cardiac injury in association with reduced STING-linked inflammatory and pyroptosis-associated signaling in CD68-positive, macrophage-rich myocardial regions, rather than establishing a macrophage-specific mechanism.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Postoperative delirium (POD) is common in older surgical patients and is clinically associated with an increased risk of long-term cognitive decline and dementia; disrupted BDNF signaling and circadian dysregulation are implicated, but their coordinated mechanisms remain unclear.Aged male C57BL/6J mice were exposed to anesthesia, surgery, and intensive care unit-like stress (ASI). Hippocampal neuroplasticity, dendritic morphology, epigenetic regulation, and circadian signaling were assessed using molecular assays, imaging, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis.ASI reduced brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein signaling, dendritic structural complexity, and attention, with accompanying histone hypoacetylation, an increased 5-methylcytosine/5-hydroxymethylcytosine ratio, and disruption of network hubs centered on BDNF and circadian regulators. Suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid mitigated these effects and improved short-term cognitive performance.Perioperative stress is associated with an epigenetically repressed, synaptically impaired hippocampal state linked to delirium-like behavior and cognitive vulnerability. Targeting chromatin accessibility and BDNF-circadian coupling with histone deacetylase inhibition may mitigate acute cognitive consequences following surgery.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Women are especially vulnerable to stress-related disorders such as posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), yet most preclinical studies have focused on males. Rodents often exhibit sexually-dimorphic coping strategies in fear behaviors, thus complicating neurobiological interpretations. To facilitate comparisons, an operant conditioned suppression paradigm was implemented where the measure of fear is not dependent on the coping strategy. The effect of single prolonged stress (SPS) on fear behavior was assessed. Since stress has been linked to excitatory phenotypes, mRNA expression of vesicular glutamate transporter 1 (VGLUT1) and glutamate decarboxylase (GAD1) was measured to assess excitation and inhibition-related markers in the ventral hippocampus (vHip), a stress-sensitive brain region. Activity-regulated cytoskeleton associated protein (Arc/Arg3.1) was used to identify neurons activated during fear extinction. The goal of this study was to determine whether SPS produces sex differences in conditioned-suppression fear behavior and to identify accompanying molecular changes in the vHip.Thirty-two adult male and female Long Evans rats (n = 16/sex) were trained to lever press for sucrose on variable-interval (VI) schedules. After stable responding, a subset (8/sex) underwent single prolonged stress (SPS). All rats received fear conditioning with five presentations of a conditioned stimulus (CS)-shock pairing. Extinction sessions included baseline VI-60 responding followed by CS presentations. Fear was defined as the suppression of lever pressing during CS. Tissue containing the vHip was collected following the last session for RNA in situ hybridization (RNA-ISH) to examine mRNA expression of molecular markers of excitation/inhibition (VGLUT1, GAD1) and neuronal activation (Arc).SPS impaired extinction in males on day 1 but had no effect in females. On day 2, males showed greater fear than females regardless of SPS. No significant effects were observed on day 3 or the recall session. No significant effects of sex or stress were observed on vHip mRNA expression of VGLUT1, GAD1, or Arc under the experimental conditions.These findings demonstrate sex-specific effects of SPS on fear extinction measured by conditioned suppression. Future studies should explore earlier time points, additional regions (e.g., amygdala and medial prefrontal cortex) hormonal modulation, and interventions that may mitigate SPS effects in males and females.Copyright © 2026 Pitcairn, Tapp, Drenan and Weiner.
Early-life sevoflurane exposure is associated with long-term cognitive deficits. Given that hippocampal development relies on precise critical windows, disruption of developmental processes during these periods is likely the origin of these impairments. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying sevoflurane-induced perturbations during critical development periods and their progression to lasting cognitive dysfunction remain elusive. Here, we determined that the first three postnatal weeks are a critical window of vulnerability to early-life sevoflurane exposure. Mechanistically, sevoflurane exposure suppressed the physiological upregulation of activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein (Arc; also known as Arg3.1) during the critical period of hippocampal development, a process driven by glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK3β)-mediated protein degradation. We demonstrated that transient suppression of Arc via hippocampal injection of Arc antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) during the third postnatal week was sufficient to recapitulate the sevoflurane-induced phenotype, impairing microglial synaptic pruning and causing initial synaptic redundancy. This early pathology subsequently evolved into aberrant microglial phagocytic activation in adolescence and adulthood, resulting in excessive synaptic loss and cognitive deficits. Crucially, restoration of Arc expression specifically during this critical period using a doxycycline (Dox)-inducible Tet-On system successfully reversed this pathological pruning trajectory and prevented long-term cognitive impairment. Our findings highlight that Arc upregulation during this critical period is essential for microglial function and synaptic homeostasis, establishing Arc as a time-sensitive therapeutic target for preventing the developmental neurotoxicity associated with pediatric anesthesia. This diagram illustrates the role of the Arc protein in microglial synaptic pruning and cognitive development under physiological conditions (upper panel, blue; Arc is highly expressed during the critical period) and sevoflurane exposure (lower panel, red; Arc expression during the critical period is downregulated). Under normal conditions, Arc is expressed during the critical period and is localized to synapses, where it facilitates the tagging of redundant synapses for elimination. Synaptic pruning peaks during the critical period, followed by further refinement during adolescence, leading to mature cognitive function in adulthood. Neonatal sevoflurane exposure leads to aberrant activation of GSK3β during the critical period. This promotes Arc degradation, thereby disrupting its synaptic localization. This leads to microglial dysfunction in terms of synaptic engulfment. In adolescence, this disruption leads to excessive microglial phagocytosis and significant synaptic loss, ultimately resulting in cognitive deficits. Graphical elements: GSK3β, green circles; Arc, orange circles; phosphorylation site, pale yellow circle containing the letter "P"; C1q, yellow umbrella shapes.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42074121 is a review article
Energy homeostasis at the organismal level requires balancing energy storage and mobilization to provide sufficient fuel for energy-intensive processes like development without depleting or accumulating excess stores. Fluctuations in the nutritional content of the diet present a challenge to the pathways that maintain energy balance. We previously identified the Drosophila melanogaster counterpart of human ARC (activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein) as a brain-expressed protein that regulates energy storage in the major fat storage tissue of the fly, the fat body. Here we show that Arc1 expression in the brain responds to changes in diet and insulin-like peptide levels. Mutating Arc1 perturbs the ability of larvae to maintain normal body fat and rates of development upon dietary changes: mutants develop slower or faster than wild-type on nutrient-poor or nutrient-rich diets, respectively. Excess fat storage in Arc1 mutants becomes an advantage upon starvation, prolonging survival relative to the wild type. In addition to metabolic and neuronal genes, transcriptomic analysis revealed changes in key developmental drivers of development, in both diet-dependent and - independent manners. This study supports a model in which nutrient regulation of Arc1 via insulin-like peptide signaling couples dietary changes to changes in metabolism -- to maintain energy homeostasis -- and production of hormone signals, to support timely development. In this role, Arc1 is a central player in a buffering mechanism that coordinates nutrient availability, organismal metabolism, and developmental rate.
The Activity-Regulated Cytoskeleton-Associated protein (ARC) plays a pivotal role in mediating synaptic plasticity in neuronal cells. In vitro studies suggest that ARC can form both high- and low-order oligomers. Despite their potentially important functions, direct nanoscale observation of ARC assemblies in cells has been lacking due to its tightly regulated spatiotemporal expression, the small size of the structures, the absence of suitable labelling strategies, and background signals from freely diffusing cytosolic proteins. Here, we combine super-resolution microscopy and time-resolved fluorescence anisotropy measurements with precisely designed ARC-tagging strategies to reveal the nanoscale spatial organization of ARC in neuronal environments, with a particular focus on excitatory synapses. We identify low-order assemblies of ARC at synapses, that colocalize with surface AMPA receptors (AMPARs), semi-circular organizations of ARC at the endocytic zone, consistent with a role in mediating AMPAR endocytosis, and particle-like assemblies sized 60-80 nm predominantly localized in dendritic spines. Finally, using a combination of experiments and simulations, we show that ARC can directly induce membrane bending and lipid bilayer tubulation in the absence of other protein partners.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein (Arc/Arg3.1) is an immediate-early gene (IEG) induced by stress and synaptic activity, characterized by transient expression and rapid degradation. However, the mechanisms governing its degradation remain unclear. In this study, we identify a novel degradation pathway for Arc/Arg3.1, driven by its structural features. We demonstrate that the proteasomal degradation of Arc/Arg3.1 is modulated by the Hsp70-CHIP complex, with ubiquitination being impaired in HSF1 knockout cells. The formation of a Cys34-Cys159 disulfide bond crosslinks Arc/Arg3.1 into high-molecular-weight oligomers, altering its ubiquitination pattern and degradation kinetics compared to the C159A mutant. Hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) revealed that wild-type (WT) Arc/Arg3.1 adopts a more compact structure than the C159A mutant. Notably, the C159A mutant fails to interact with HSF1, resulting in Hsp70 induction upon heat shock. Our findings propose a feedback loop in which disulfide crosslinking of Arc/Arg3.1 induces rapid degradation through Hsp70-mediated ubiquitination, which in turn modulates the heat shock response by inhibiting HSF1 function.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein (ARC) is an RNA-binding protein that also serves as a central hub for neuronal protein-protein interactions. It is essential for intercellular signaling and contributes to synaptic plasticity. ARC includes Gag-like sequences of Ty3/Gypsy retrotransposons and retains the ability to self-assemble into capsid-like structures containing Arc mRNA. Here, we employ an integrative approach to provide the first detailed in vitro analysis of ARC-RNA interactions. Using quantitative binding assays, RNA structure mapping, and ribonucleoprotein (RNP) footprinting, complemented by extensive computational analyses, we identified Arc mRNA regions specifically and non-specifically bound by ARC, as well as ARC amino acid residues involved in RNA interactions. We show that ARC recognizes RNA sequence and structure. A specific GC-rich motif is common to all bound RNA sequences, and the binding preferentially occurs near highly stable, solvent-exposed helices in the 5' region of Arc mRNA. Surprisingly, the conserved coding sequence seems more relevant to binding specificity than the 5'-untranslated region. Our predictions suggest that ARC binding to RNA through positively charged regions of matrix and capsid domains exposes an oligomerization motif, enhancing binding cooperativity. We also provide evidence that ARC acts as a nucleic acid chaperone and can locally destabilize Arc mRNA structure.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Extensive research in laboratory rodents has shown that novelty exposure enhances the consolidation of memories for preceding or following low-arousal events by elevating dopamine release in the dorsal hippocampus (dHipp). Additionally, numerous studies have demonstrated that post-encoding noradrenergic activation of the basolateral amygdala (BLA) can also enhance memory consolidation in dHipp. Since the BLA is most active during emotionally arousing or stress-related situations, it was suggested that this nuclear complex mediates the effects of emotional salience on memory consolidation. However, it is presently unknown whether the reinforcement of memory storage in dHipp induced by novel and arousing environmental conditions results from the interaction between these two modulatory systems. To test the hypothesis of a functional interaction between dopaminergic and noradrenergic systems, this study assessed their combined effects on a low-arousal object-location (OL) task. Rats received post-training intra-BLA infusions of vehicle or clenbuterol (Clen), a selective β-adrenoceptor agonist. Novelty-induced dopamine release in the dHipp was enhanced by omitting habituation prior to training, and the contribution of dopamine signaling was further evaluated using pre-infusion administration of the D1/D5 receptor antagonist SCH 23390. The distribution of two important proteins for memory processing, namely the activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein (Arc) and the phosphorylated form of the transcription factor, cAMP-response element-binding protein (pCREB) in the dHipp, was explored in a subset of rats perfused 60 min after the training phase. Stimulation of the BLA significantly increased the number of Arc- and pCREB-positive cells in several dHipp areas. The preceding application of SCH 23390, however, substantially decreased these effects in the same areas, i.e., the dentate gyrus (DG), CA2, and CA1 subregions for pCREB, and the CA3b, CA3c, CA2, and CA1 subregions for Arc. This interaction is considered essential for the initial stages of memory consolidation. The obtained results indicate the presence of a region-specific interaction between BLA modulatory inputs and intrahippocampal dopaminergic transmission, the mechanisms of which remain to be elucidated.
Chronic cerebral hypoperfusion (CCH) can cause long-term changes in gene expression and increase susceptibility to spatial memory impairment, in which the histone acetylation plays a crucial role. Studies have found that electroacupuncture (EA), a non-drug therapy, is beneficial to alleviate spatial memory impairment. However, the underlying mechanism of the histone acetylation is not yet completely clear. The goal of this study was to investigate the mechanisms by which EA stimulation of acupoints on the head region ameliorates histone acetylation in CCH.The spatial memory of CCH rats were evaluated before and after the EA intervention using two behavioral tests: Barnes maze (before EA treatment) and Morris water maze (after EA treatment). To further investigate the mechanism by which EA improves spatial memory, Western blotting, real-time reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), Golgi staining, and neuroelectrophysiology were used. Furthermore, we used Adeno-associated virus vector expressing cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (CBP)/E1A binding protein p300 (P300)-specific short hairpin RNAs (sh CBP/P300) to inhibit the acetylation levels of histones H3 and H4 in the hippocampus.CCH rats showed changes in spatial memory, including a decline in acquisition and maintenance. Compared to the sham group, there were significantly lower levels of total histone acetylation in the CCH rats and the acetylation levels of histone H3 and H4 in the hippocampus of rats decreased in the CCH group. The ChIP experiment results showed that the enrichment of acetylation tags of histone 3 at lysine 9 occurred at the promoter sites of Finkel-Biskis-Jinkins osteosarcoma oncogene (c-Fos), early growth response 1 (Egr1), and activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein (Arc). Western blotting and RT-qPCR detection showed that the transcriptional and expression level of c-Fos and Egr1 decreased. Golgi staining showed that the density of dendritic spines decreased in the hippocampal cornu ammonis 1 area. In contrast, with the EA intervention, the behavior performance and molecular biological indexes were improved. Furthermore, we observed a significant decrease in the histone H3 and H4 acetylation after inhibition of CBP/P300 expression with sh CBP/P300, which resulted in the abrogation of EA's beneficial effect.EA can improve spatial memory impairment in CHH rats by regulating the expression of the hippocampal imprinted genes c-Fos and Egr1 and by enhancing synaptic plasticity through the epigenetic modification of histone H3 and H4 acetylation. Please cite this article as: Ding YY, Wang WJ, Chen LW, Yang MG, Dai YL, Li R, Cao YJ, Wang SN, Wang LM, Wu B, Chen LM, Liu WL. Electroacupuncture regulates histone acetylation to improve spatial memory impairment in rats with chronic cerebral hypoperfusion. J Integr Med. 2026; 24(2):224-237.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a prevalent degenerative joint disorder. Paeoniflorin (PF), a primary bioactive compound from Paeonia lactiflora roots, demonstrates therapeutic potential for OA. This study investigated the effects and mechanisms of PF in OA. In vitro, an OA model was established using interleukin-1β (IL-1β)-treated chondrocytes. In vivo, an OA mouse model was generated via destabilization of the medial meniscus (DMM). Molecular docking, bioinformatics analysis, and experimental validation identified ring finger protein 216 (RNF216) as a PF target. RNF216 overexpression and optineurin (OPTN) overexpression were achieved via genetic manipulation. Autophagy was evaluated by Western blot, transmission electron microscopy, and monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP)-green fluorescent protein (GFP)-microtubule-associated protein 1A/1B-light chain 3 (LC3) reporter. PF attenuated chondrocyte injury in vitro and alleviated OA progression in vivo. Through molecular docking and cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA), we identified carbonic anhydrase IX (CAIX, CA9) as a direct target of PF. RNF216 overexpression abolished PF's chondroprotective effects, which were rescued by OPTN overexpression. The autophagy inhibitor 3-methyladenine (3-MA) blocked PF-mediated chondroprotection via the RNF216/OPTN axis. Mechanistically, PF inhibited RNF216-dependent ubiquitination and degradation of OPTN, enhancing autophagic flux to mitigate cartilage damage. PF alleviates OA by suppressing RNF216-mediated OPTN ubiquitination, stabilizing OPTN to activate autophagy and protect chondrocytes. These findings highlight PF as a promising therapeutic agent for OA.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Background/Objectives: Prepulse inhibition (PPI) is a robust, reproducible phenotype associated with schizophrenia and other psychiatric disorders. This study was carried out to identify gene(s) influencing PPI. Methods: We performed Quantitative Trait Locus (QTL) analysis of PPI in 59 strains from the BXD recombinant inbred (BXD RI) mouse family and used a 2-LOD region for candidate gene identification. Genes significantly correlated with the candidate gene were identified based on genetic, partial, and literature correlation, and were further studied through gene enrichment and protein-protein interaction analyses. Phenome-wide association study (PheWAS) and differential expression analyses of the candidate gene were performed using human data. Results: We identified one significant (GN Trait 11428) and two suggestive male-specific QTLs (GN Traits 11426 and 11427) on Chromosome 19 between 27 and 36 Mb with peak LRS values of 19.2 (-logP = 4.2), 14.4 (-logP = 3.1), and 13.3 (-logP = 2.9), respectively. Atad1, ATPase family, AAA domain containing 1 was identified as the strongest candidate for the male-specific PPI loci. Atad1 expression in BXDs is strongly cis-modulated in the nucleus accumbens (NAc, LRS = 26.5 (-logP = 5.7). Many of the Atad1-correlated genes in the NAc were enriched in neurotransmission-related categories. Protein-protein interaction analysis suggested that ATAD1 functions through its direct partners, GRIA2 and ASNA1. PheWAS revealed significant associations between Atad1 and psychiatric traits, including schizophrenia. Analysis of a human RNA-seq dataset revealed differential expression of Atad1 between schizophrenia patients and the control group. Conclusions: Collectively, our analyses support Atad1 as a potential candidate gene for PPI and suggest that this gene should be further investigated for its involvement in psychiatric disorders.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is an extremely aggressive brain tumor, marked by restricted therapeutic possibilities and a generally unfavorable prognosis. GBM's complexity and heterogeneity necessitate comprehensive genetic and immunological profiling to enhance therapeutic strategies.The study integrated The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Integrative Epidemiology Unit Open Genome-Wide Association Studies (IEU OpenGWAS) data to identify genetic factors influencing GBM using expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) and genome-wide association studies (GWAS). Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis revealed 250 GBM-associated genes. A GBM risk prediction model was built using Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) and Cox regression. The research examined immune infiltration, drug response, and mutation profiles to characterize GBM molecular features. Functional enrichment and in vitro experiments validated key findings.The analysis uncovered significant genetic associations with GBM, emphasizing key genes such as follistatin-like 1 (FSTL1), FXYD domain-containing ion transport regulator 5 (FXYD5), Ras-related protein (RRAS), and ring finger protein 216 pseudogene 1 (RNF216P1). The risk model effectively categorized patients into low-risk and high-risk groups, showing significantly worse survival outcomes in the high-risk group. Immune profiling revealed differential infiltration of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), macrophages, and T cells, which correlated with the expression levels of the genes that were identified. Patients at high risk showed increased sensitivity to chemotherapeutic drugs such as dasatinib and lapatinib, while those at low risk were more responsive to elesclomol and lisitinib. Notably, key genes such as DCMP Deaminase (DCTD) and RRAS were found to regulate ferroptosis, underscoring their potential as therapeutic targets for GBM treatment.This study deepens the understanding of GBM by pinpointing critical genetic markers and elucidating their influence on the tumor immune microenvironment (TME) as well as treatment response. The risk model developed in this study holds promise for enhancing prognostic accuracy and facilitating the personalization of GBM therapy.© 2025 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Lipophagy engulfs lipid droplets and delivers them to lysosomes for degradation. We found that lipophagy levels were low in most fly tissues, except for the prothoracic gland (PG) during larval development. Therefore, we performed a small-scale screening in the PG to identify regulators of lipophagy. We discovered that the loss of nmd, a gene encoding a mitochondrial AAA-ATPase, led to developmental failure and reduced lipophagy in the PG. Further studies indicated that nmd was not only required for lipophagy but also essential for general macroautophagy/autophagy in both PG and fat body tissues. Autophagy was induced but blocked at the autophagosome-lysosome fusion stage upon nmd reduction. Additionally, nmd interacted with mitochondrial protein import machinery, such as Tom20, Tom40, and the import cargo, such as Idh. Loss of nmd decreased protein import into mitochondria. Similar to the loss of nmd, reduction of Tom20 or Tom40 also resulted in reduced lipophagy in the PG. In adult flies, reducing nmd expression in the eyes caused lipid droplet accumulation and severe degeneration during aging. Overexpression of bmm, a triglyceride lipase, reduced lipid droplets in the eye but did not rescue the eye degeneration caused by the reduction of nmd.Abbreviation: ATAD1: ATPase family AAA domain containing 1; Atg8a: Autophagy-related 8a; Atg9: Autophagy-related 9; Atg14: Autophagy-related 14; Atg18a: Autophagy-related 18a; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; bmm: brummer; CtsL1: Cathepsin L1; Idh: isocitrate dehydrogenase (NADP+); Cis1: CItrinin Sensitive knockout; GFP: green fluorescent protein; LDs: lipid droplets; LIRs:LC3-interacting regions; Lsd-1: Lipid storage droplet-1; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; Marf: Mitochondrial assembly regulatory factor; Miga: Mitoguardin; Msp1: Mitochondrial Sorting of Proteins 1; nmd: no mitochondrial derivative; PG: prothoracic gland; phtm: phantom; PNPLA2/ATGL: patatin like domain 2, triacylglycerol lipase; RFP: red fluorescent protein; RNAi: RNA interference; Syx17: Syntaxin 17; TA: tail-anchored; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TOMM: translocase of outermitochondrial membrane; Tom20: Translocase of outer membrane 20; Tom40: Translocase of outer membrane 40.
PurposeLung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is the most prevalent subtype of non-small cell lung cancer and a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide. This study investigates the role of Ring Finger Protein 216 (RNF216) in LUAD progression.MethodsRNF216 expression was evaluated in LUAD tissues and cells. Functional assays evaluated cell viability, migration, invasion, and ferroptosis in vitro. Mechanistic investigations defined RNF216's role in regulating p53 ubiquitination and stability. In vivo, xenograft models evaluated tumor growth and ferroptosis.ResultsRNF216 was markedly overexpressed in LUAD tissues and cell lines. Functional studies demonstrated that silencing RNF216 suppressed LUAD cell proliferation, migration, and invasion while inducing ferroptosis, characterized by increased reactive oxygen species (ROS), lipid peroxidation (LPO), and intracellular Fe2+ accumulation. Mechanistically, RNF216 knockdown stabilized p53 by reducing its ubiquitination, thereby promoting ferroptosis. These findings were corroborated in vivo, where RNF216 silencing significantly inhibited tumor growth and enhanced ferroptosis in xenograft models.ConclusionsOur results establish RNF216 as a pivotal oncogenic driver that accelerates LUAD progression by suppressing ferroptosis through p53 ubiquitination. Targeting RNF216 may represent a promising therapeutic strategy to induce ferroptosis and combat LUAD.
Despite advances in approaches to treatment for patients with systemic sclerosis (SSc), the effects have been modest at best. This investigator-initiated study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic benefit, safety and the genetic characteristics related to effect of baricitinib in SSc.In this 24-week study, eligible SSc patients were randomised to baricitinib 4 mg, 2 mg or control group. The primary outcome was the change in modified Rodnan skin score (mRSS) from baseline to week 12. Secondary outcomes included changes in the American College of Rheumatology Combined Response Index in Systemic Sclerosis (ACR-CRISS) score, forced vital capacity (FVC), Systemic Sclerosis Score, tender and swollen joint counts, digital ulcers, EQ5D (EuroQol five-dimensions) and safety at week 12 and 24. Transcriptome differences in blood samples from patients before and after baricitinib treatment were compared. Gene Ontology enrichment analysis was performed to identify potential biological functions and canonical pathways.Between April 2021 to January 2022, 48 patients were randomly assigned to three groups. Mean change in mRSS score from baseline to week 12 was - 8.9 in 4 mg group, - 3.8 in 2 mg group, and - 3.6 in control group (P = 0.019). At week 12, the ACR-CRISS scores were 0.5 and 0.3 in baricitinib 4 mg and 2 mg group, as compared with 0.2 among those in control group (P = 0.171). FVC (%), digital ulcers and EQ5D in 4 mg baricitinib group showed favorable responses over 24 weeks. There were no significant differences in adverse events among groups. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) identified in our analysis were significantly enriched in gene ontology (GO) terms related to the positive regulation of cytokine production, immune response-activating signaling pathway, and activation of immune response pathway. Interleukin- 1 Receptor Like 1 (IL- 1RL1 or ST2) and synaptotagmin- 17 (SYT17) were downregulated and upregulated respectively, after baricitinib treatment.The therapy with baricitinib 4 mg appeared to improve mRSS of SSc patients, probably by influencing mechanisms of immune inflammation, and had an acceptable safety profile. This study paves the way for further investigations into Janus kinase (JAK) 1/2 inhibition with baricitinib as a prospective treatment for SSc. Key Points • The baricitinib 4 mg seems to improve clinical outcomes of SSc patients with safety profiles. • The mechanism of JAK inhibitors has been confirmed to be related to anti-inflammatory pathways and molecules in clinical samples.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to International League of Associations for Rheumatology (ILAR).
We describe neurologic phenotype, clinical associations, and outcomes in autoimmune brainstem encephalitis.Medical records of neural-IgG positive autoimmune brainstem encephalitis patients diagnosed at Mayo Clinic (January 1, 2006-December 31, 2022) were reviewed.Ninety-eight patients (57 male) were included. Median age of symptom onset was 51 years (range, 8 months-85 years). Frequent presenting features were ≥1: diplopia (80%), ataxia (78%), dysarthria (68%), vestibulocochlear symptoms (67%), dysphagia (61%), nausea/vomiting (42%), and facial weakness (32%). Altered mental status (11%) was uncommon. Neural antibodies detected were as follows: KLHL-11 (26 patients), GAD65 (high titer, 12), ANNA-1 (anti-Hu, 8), ANNA-2 (anti-Ri, 8), Ma2 (7), IgLON-5 (6), AQP4 (6), MOG (4), glycine receptor (4), GQ1B (4), PCA-1 (anti-Yo, 4), DPPX (2), neurochondrin (2), neurofilament (2), NMDA-R (2), AGNA-1 (SOX-1, 1), ANNA-3 (DACH1, 1), amphiphysin (1), CRMP-5 (1), ITPR-1 (1), PCA-Tr (DNER, 1), and PDE10A (1). Cancer was identified in 55 patients: germ cell (23 patients; 3 extra-testicular), ductal breast adenocarcinoma (8), small cell carcinoma (6, lung 4), adenocarcinomas (6), neuroendocrine carcinoma (3), hematologic (2), squamous cell (2), and other (7). Median modified Ranking score (mRS) at last follow-up was 3 (range, 0-6). Factors associated with poor outcome included abnormal brain MRI, bulbar symptoms, and elevated CSF IgG index. Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed faster progression to wheelchair in patients who were immunotherapy refractory and with elevated CSF IgG index. Diagnostic criteria for autoimmune brainstem encephalitis (definite and probable) are proposed.Autoimmune brainstem encephalitis is a distinct clinical subphenotype of autoimmune encephalitis. Abnormal brain MRI, bulbar symptoms, and elevated CSF-IgG index associate with poor outcome.© 2024 The Author(s). Annals of Clinical and Translational Neurology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Neurological Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42379432 is a review article
The hypothalamus, through its expression and interaction with various neurotransmitters, pituitary hormones and orexigenic and anorexigenic signals, regulates appetite. Leptin and insulin, released in response to food intake, act as anorexigenic stimuli whereas ghrelin, released in fasting, is orexigenic. Imbalance in these signals can lead to disorders in appetite regulation with cardiovascular implications. Glucose, through multiple mechanisms, shows an addictive potential and interacts and affects the hypothalamic regulation of appetite and energy metabolism. The concept of Carbothalamus integrates the hypothalamic function in response to carbohydrate craving and proves opportune to identify the individual maladaptation and an approach to manage the same. This simple concept helps understand, as well as address, obesity in an easy and effective manner.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42328715 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42325510 is a review article
To explore whether hydroxy-alpha-sanshool (HAS) prevents obesity by modulating appetite and the gut microbiome, an obesity model was established using mice fed a high-fat diet. The food intake, body mass, feed efficiency and organ index of the mice were recorded, and the serum levels of GLP-1 and PYY were measured. The mRNA and protein expression of appetite-related genes in the small intestine and brain tissue were detected by real-time quantitative PCR and Western blotting, and the intestinal flora was analyzed by 16S rRNA gene sequencing. The results revealed that the body weight, food intake and feed efficiency of the mice were significantly reduced (4.28%, 14.46%, and 25.33%, respectively) and that the levels of GLP-1 and PYY were significantly increased (p < 0.05) (9.11% and 5.49%, respectively) by the HAS intervention. The relative mRNA expression of NPY and AGRP in the small intestine decreased significantly (39.62%, 21.95%) (p < 0.05); the relative mRNA levels of CART, GLP-1R, NPY2R and GLP-1 in the brain tissue increased significantly; and those of NPY and AGRP decreased significantly (p < 0.05). The protein expression of POMC and GLP-1 increased significantly (p < 0.05), whereas the protein expression of NPY and AGRP decreased significantly (p < 0.05). The diversity of intestinal flora in the cecal contents and the relative abundance of probiotics among the dominant flora increased. In conclusion, HAS could modulate the expression of appetite-related factors and the composition of intestinal microbiota in mice fed with a high-fat diet by regulating food intake and maintaining energy homeostasis, which is consistent with the involvement of the gut-brain axis in this regulatory mechanism.© 2026 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
N-Acylethanolamines (NAEs) are bioactive lipid mediators involved in the regulation of appetite, inflammation, and gut-brain signaling. This study investigated the metabolic fate of dietary NAEs following the consumption of two test meals with differing NAE contents in subjects with ileostomy and evaluated their effects on gastrointestinal hormones, glycaemia, and appetite regulation. An acute, double-blind, randomized, crossover postprandial study was conducted in ileostomy patients who consumed either a high-NAE meal (HNM) or a low-NAE meal (LNM) on two separate occasions. Ileal fluid and plasma samples were collected over an 8-hour postprandial period for analysis of NAEs and endocannabinoids (ECs). Baseline ileal microbiota composition was assessed. At the end of the 8-hour period, participants completed a buffet meal test to evaluate ad libitum energy intake. Dietary NAEs were significantly recovered in ileal fluids after HNM intake, with concentrations approximately 3-fold higher than those after LNM, suggesting partial digestion and release from the food matrix. No significant differences in postprandial plasma NAE concentrations were observed between meals. HNM consumption led to higher postprandial levels of plasma insulin, C-peptide, and glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide, despite no differences in glycemic response or subsequent ad libitum energy intake. Metagenomic analysis identified clusters of ileal microbial taxa associated with circulating lipid profiles, suggesting a role of the small intestinal microbiota in the metabolism of NAEs and ECs. Dietary NAEs reach the small intestine at active concentrations and may influence local signaling via GPR119, with microbiota composition influencing their release from food.
Foodborne carbon dots (FCDs) are an overlooked ingestible nanoscale food substance, and the potential ingestion risks associated with persistent dietary preferences need to be clearly articulated. In this study, the effects of FCDs and glucose CDs on feeding behavior in mice were elucidated from the perspectives of gut microbiome, metabolic flow monitoring, and metabolomics. The results demonstrated that persistent intake of FCDs (25 mg/kg/day) for 30 days significantly caused diminished appetite. Mechanistic findings suggested that FCDs were involved in the regulation of appetite reduction through the microbiota-gut-brain axis. FCDs induce perturbations in the gut microbiota, leading to increased levels of intestinal inflammation. In addition, the intake of FCDs was directly involved in microbial metabolism to generate SCFAs, activate intestinal GPR-41/43, promote the release of glucagon-like peptide, and further stimulate the hypothalamus to significantly downregulate the expression of AGRP and upregulate the expression of POMC, ultimately leading to the reduction of appetite. Moreover, intake of FCDs regulates intestinal fatty acid metabolism, amino acid metabolism, and other factors affecting the level of health of the organism. The present work highlights the impact of dietary intake of source FCDs on ingestion, providing unique perspectives on the potential health threats of FCDs.© 2026 The Authors. Co-published by Research Center for Eco-Environmental Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, and American Chemical Society.
Filamin A (FLNA) is an actin-binding protein that regulates mechanosensitivity and functions as an intracellular signaling scaffold in various cell types. It has also been implicated in tumor growth. We recently reported FLNA expression in human ovarian granulosa cells and in KGN cells, a granulosa cell tumor (GCT) line.Immunohistochemistry analysis of 51 GCT samples revealed heterogeneous FLNA expression, with approximately 20% showing weak, 18% strong, and the majority moderate expression. We therefore conducted functional studies in KGN cells using CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing. A proteomic approach revealed marked changes in protein abundance upon FLNA depletion: proteins with increased abundance were predominantly related to adhesion, cytoskeletal organization, regulation of cell shape, and lipid metabolic process, whereas those with decreased abundance were associated with DNA replication, cell division, and cell cycle regulation. FLNA-knockout cells showed enlarged cell sizes, reduced proliferation, and slightly affected steroidogenesis. Disruption of FLNA further reduced migration velocity, altered actin cytoskeletal alignment under flow, and modified expression of genes involved in cytoskeletal architecture, adhesion, and mechanosensing under shear stress.Our results identify crucial roles of FLNA in shaping the cellular architecture, motility, and proliferation of KGN cells. Consequently, alterations in FLNA expression may influence intracellular signaling, and responsiveness to mechanical cues in both physiological and pathological contexts.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42142620 is a review article
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301334
