Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that primarily affects motor neurons leading to muscle weakness, paralysis, and ultimately, respiratory failure. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) facilitate intercellular communication by mimicking the functions of their parent cells. In this study, we found that repeated administration of neural stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles (NSC-derived EVs) improved motor performance and provided protection to lumbar motor neurons, the neuromuscular junctions, and muscle morphology in the SOD1 G93A transgenic mouse model of ALS. Furthermore, by analyzing the RNA-sequencing of muscle specimens from ALS-SOD1 patients, we demonstrated that the rescue effects of NSC-derived EVs might be linked to the p53 pathway. Compared to the PBS control treatment group, both TP53 and the p53 upregulated modulator of apoptosis (PUMA) were downregulated in the spinal cord of mice treated with NSC-derived EVs. These data provide additional knowledge for the promising use of NSC-derived EVs as a potential therapy for ALS.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Association of Neuropathologists, Inc. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Nicotinamide (NAM), a precursor for nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+), is widely used as a supplement during different cells culturing. Although its antioxidative and anti-apoptotic properties, the specific effects on bovine embryo quality and implantation potential remain partly explored. The current study aimed to investigate the impact of NAM on developmental competence and quality of bovine embryos, focusing on cell apoptosis, survival, and trophoblast invasion. NAM was treated during in vitro maturation (IVM) and late-stage embryo culture (IVC3; the morula stage embryo), the cleavage and blastocyst formation rates were evaluated on Days 4 and 8 post-fertilization, respectively. Underlying mechanisms affecting embryo quality and invasion potential were examined in developed blastocysts using RT-qPCR, immunofluorescence, reactive oxygen species (ROS) measurement, TUNEL and trophoblast invasion assays. Results showed that the cleavage and blastocyst formation rates were significantly increased in the NAM-treated group relative to controls (83.62 ± 1.38% vs. 80.08 ± 0.52%, and 37.54 ± 1.15% vs. 28.74 ± 0.70%, respectively). Additionally, the in vitro-developed embryos supplemented with NAM during IVM and IVC3 exhibited lower levels of ROS and mRNA of caspase-3, and higher mRNA levels of the survival genes SOD1 and SOD2. Similarly, the DNA fragmentation rate was lower, and the total cell counts and inner cell mass to trophectoderm (ICM:TE) ratios were higher in embryos supplemented with NAM compared to untreated embryos. Furthermore, the MMP2 and MMP9 protein expression and trophoblast invasion rate of blastocysts treated with NAM were enhanced. These findings highlight the potential role of NAM in improving bovine embryo quality and enhancing trophoblast invasive capacity, thereby suggesting an improved implantation potential.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560011 is a review article
Skeletal muscle atrophy in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) drives loss of muscle strength, function and quality of life in ALS patients. The endocannabinoid system (ECS) regulates muscle homeostasis via regenerative and metabolic processes, and although ECS alterations have been reported in ALS neural tissues, ECS remodelling within ALS skeletal muscle has never been studied. This study investigated temporal and muscle type-specific ECS changes in ALS.Female hSOD1G93A transgenic mice and nontransgenic littermates were studied at presymptomatic and symptomatic ages (56-138 days of age; n = 7-8/group). Endocannabinoids, N-acyl-ethanolamine congeners and inflammatory lipid mediators were quantified using targeted LC-MS/MS in the tibialis anterior (TA) and soleus (SOL) muscles. ECS-related enzymes and receptors were assessed by immunoblotting and integrated with transcriptomic analyses of skeletal muscle biopsies from ALS patients (n = 5/group; ~63 years). To evaluate therapeutic relevance, ALS mice were treated with the fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) inhibitor URB937 or vehicle (n = 10-11/group), and survival, body weight, welfare and motor function were assessed longitudinally.ALS caused severe atrophy in the predominantly fast-twitch TA muscle (-76.5%; p < 0.01), while the slow-twitch soleus was largely preserved (-14.4%; p < 0.01). Accordingly, the lipid perturbation due to ALS was more pronounced in the TA, reflected by extensive alterations in unsaturated fatty acids, hydroxy- and epoxy-fatty acids (TA: 63% and SOL: 22% of lipid mediators different between ALS vs. NTG) and marked ECS remodelling, including elevated anandamide (+37.3%; p = 0.03) and multiple N-acyl-ethanolamine congeners (+76-102%; p < 0.05), reduced 2-arachidonoylglycerol (-28%; p = 0.06), increased CB1 receptor expression (+93%; p < 0.01) and dynamic, age-dependent regulation of FAAH (presymptomatic: -68%; p = 0.04, symptomatic: +21%; p = 0.02). In contrast, the SOL showed modest or opposite changes, consistent with its relative resistance to atrophy. Notably, ECS remodelling in the TA was already evident at presymptomatic age (e.g., CB1: +76%; p = 0.01) and the same ECS enzymes were affected in human ALS skeletal muscle transcriptomes (e.g., twofold decrease in FAAH; pFDR = 0.010). Despite evidence for a therapeutic potential, chronic peripheral FAAH inhibition with URB937 did not improve weight loss, motor functions and survival of ALS mice (all p > 0.05).Muscle type-specific endocannabinoid system remodelling in ALS precedes overt neurological decline and might relate to degenerative features such as metabolic disturbance and inflammation. Although peripheral FAAH inhibition alone was insufficient to modify disease outcomes, these findings identify the endocannabinoid system as an integral component of ALS muscle pathology and support skeletal muscle lipid signalling as a potentially relevant early target for adjunctive therapeutic strategies.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cachexia, Sarcopenia and Muscle published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells evade apoptosis through antioxidant mechanisms. Paris saponin VII (PS VII), a steroidal saponin, exhibits antitumor activity in solid malignancies, but its role in AML remains unclear.This study investigated the antileukemic effects of PS VII on AML and the underlying mechanism, and evaluated its synergy with idarubicin (Ida).Using human SKM-1 and murine C1498 AML cell lines, we assessed antileukemic effects of PS VII in vitro. Subcutaneous and systemic leukemia mouse models were employed for in vivo validation. Mechanistic studies integrated DIA-based proteomics, co-immunoprecipitation, surface plasmon resonance, and ubiquitination assays to elucidate the molecular basis.PS VII bound to superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) and promoted its proteasomal degradation. This process was mediated by TRIP12-dependent K48-linked polyubiquitination at lysine residues 10 and 37. SOD1 degradation elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels and induced mitochondrial dysfunction. High SOD1 expression was associated with poor prognosis in AML patients. PS VII and Ida synergistically induced ROS-dependent apoptosis in vitro and in vivo.PS VII functions as a natural compound SOD1 degrader that triggers ROS-dependent AML cell death through TRIP12-mediated ubiquitin-proteasomal degradation. Its synergy with Ida provides a potential combination strategy that increases cellular sensitivity to oxidative stress and cell death.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
Melanoma is an aggressive form of skin cancer characterized by high metastatic potential and increasing incidence and mortality worldwide. Although significant advances have been achieved with immune checkpoint inhibitors and targeted therapies, effective preventive and long-term therapeutic strategies remain limited. Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG), widely used in bladder cancer immunotherapy, exhibits potent immunostimulatory properties and has emerged as a promising platform for recombinant cancer vaccines. Among the candidate antigens, Antigen 85A (Ag85A), derived from Mycobacterium bovis, is notable for its strong immunogenicity and ability to induce robust Th1-mediated cellular immune responses. In this study, recombinant BCG strains overexpressing efficacy was evaluated in melanoma models in vitro and in vivo. Gene expression analysis by RT-qPCR revealed that rBCG-Ag85A induced systemic immune activation, characterized by increased Il1B and Trl4 expression in splenocytes. In tumor tissues, rBCG-Ag85A significantly upregulated genes associated with apoptosis (Bax, Bcl2), oxidative stress (Sod1, Cat), inflammatory and immune signaling pathways (Tlr4, Nfkb, Il12, Il1b, Casp1), and modulation of pathways involved in cellular metabolism (Mtor) indicating enhanced modulation of the tumor microenvironment. Functionally, these molecular and immunological effects were associated with reduced tumor progression, slower tumor growth, and improved survival in B16F10 melanoma-bearing mice. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that rBCG-Ag85A promotes multifaceted antitumor activity through the modulation of apoptosis, inflammation and oxidative stress-related gene expression, highlighting its potential as a promising prophylactic vaccine strategy to prevent cutaneous malignant melanoma and supporting future studies aimed at elucidating the immune cell populations involved and optimizing combinatorial therapeutic approaches.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lead (Pb) is one of the most prevalent environmental toxicants and is of great concern due to its adverse effects. Despite lead's oxidative properties, studies on the transgenerational effects of paternal Pb exposure remain inadequate. This study aimed to evaluate these effects on oxidative stress and the expression of specific genes using the D. melanogaster model. Male fruit flies were fed a normal diet supplemented with lead acetate as the Pb source for 20 consecutive days. The Pb-exposed males were mated with unexposed females, producing F1 offspring. F1 flies were fed a normal diet, and then bred to produce F2; F3 was produced from F2. All F1-F3 generations were kept on a normal diet, with no Pb exposure. Antioxidant parameters, including vitamins A, C, and E; reduced glutathione (GSH); catalase; superoxide dismutase (SOD); malondialdehyde (MDA); and the expression of CAT and SOD1 mRNA, were evaluated. There was a significant (p < 0.05) decrease in antioxidant vitamin levels, GSH content, and catalase and SOD activities across F1-F3 due to exposure to the grandparent (F0). Similarly, a significant (p < 0.05) elevation in MDA levels was observed across the F1-F3 generations due to exposure of the F0 generation. Significant down-regulation of the antioxidant genes CAT and SOD1 was also detected. The findings indicate persistent transgenerational alterations in oxidative stress biomarkers and antioxidant gene expression resulting from paternal Pb exposure. This underscores the importance of studying multiple generations to assess the health and environmental risks posed by pollutants.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Dry eye disease (DED) is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the ocular surface; however, upstream immune mechanisms contributing to DED are complex and unclear. This study aimed to identify differentially expressed tear proteins in patients with DED and elucidate the underlying disease mechanism.Tear fluid from healthy controls (HC; n = 26), aqueous-deficient DED (ADDE; n = 29), and evaporative DED (EDE; n = 26) patients were collected using Schirmer strips. Proteomic profiling was performed using nano-ESI LC-MS/MS. Differential proteins were identified using LIMMA and MBQN with Gene Ontology pathway enrichment. Key candidates were validated by ELISA (IL-8, IL-18, histones), Western blotting for citrullinated H3, PicoGreen for extracellular DNA, and in vitro assays in human corneal epithelial cells.A total of 2596 tear proteins were identified across groups, of which 101 were significantly altered (P < 0.001) in both ADDE and EDE groups. Principal component analysis and heatmap analyses revealed differential protein abundance patterns between HC and disease groups, with increased inflammatory and oxidative stress proteins (MMP9, MAPK3, S100A8/A9, and SOD1) and decreased lactoferrin, lysozyme, lipocalin-1, and mucins in ADDE and EDE. Pathway enrichment indicated activation of neutrophil-mediated inflammation and extracellular chromatin release. Validation confirmed significant upregulation of NETosis-associated markers, including IL-8 (P < 0.01), IL-18 (P < 0.001), and histone proteins (H1, H2A/B, H3, H4) (P < 0.001) in disease groups, which was further confirmed by in vitro DED model.Our study shows that neutrophil-mediated inflammation and NETosis in DED may be associated with elevated IL-8, IL-18, and histone proteins in ADDE and EDE, which could be potential biomarkers or therapeutic targets.
To evaluate the effectiveness of Tofersen in patients with superoxide dismutase 1 gene (SOD1-ALS) patients in France in a real-world setting, using disease progression within patient comparisons and with a historical cohort.Patients with SOD1-ALS were included from across 19 French FILSLAN network centers. Baseline was defined as the treatment initiation date. Main endpoints were the ALSFRS-R progression rate and plasmatic neurofilament light chain (NfL) levels at baseline and 12 months after baseline.In the Tofersen Cohort (N=46), within-group comparisons showed that the mean ALS functional rating scale revised (ALSFRS-R) progression rate slowed from 0.53 ± 0.5 at baseline to 0.22 ± 0.3 point/month at 12 months (P=.006). NfL levels significantly decreased from 89.0 ± 9.0 pg/ml at baseline to 29.2 ± 19.5.5 at 12 months (P=.004). Exploratory comparisons with a propensity score (PS) matched historical cohort (39 matched pairs) using a mixed-effects model, ALSFRS-R progression rate at baseline, 6 months, and 12 months after baseline, showed no statistically significant differences between groups P=.30, whereas longitudinal ALSFRS-R scores differed significantly between groups (time-treatment interaction P=.006). The mean survival of the PS matched population was longer in the Tofersen Cohort (42.6 months) than the Historical Cohort (31.8 months) P=.004. Time-dependent adjusted cox analysis showed that Tofersen was associated with a reduction in mortality risk (adjusted HR=0.34; 95% CI, 0.12-0.91; P=.03).Tofersen seems to be associated with slower functional decline and reduced NfL levels. While limitations of retrospective design and ALSFRS-R sensitivity must be acknowledged, these findings provide real-world evidence suggesting a clinical benefit of Tofersen.© 2026 The Authors.
Post-ovulatory aging (POA) reduces oocyte quality, yet effective interventions remain limited. Here we demonstrate that early intervention with vitamin K2 (menaquinone-4 isoform, MK-4) alleviates POA by inhibiting iron-disorder-induced oxidative stress. Western blot revealed that the expressions of ferroptosis suppressor protein 1 (FSP1) and vitamin K epoxide reductase-like protein (VKORC1L1) were significantly decreased in mouse POA oocytes; however, MK-4 attenuated these changes. Further, MK-4 inhibited ferritinophagy by downregulating NCOA4 and LC3II, markedly restored ferritin level, reduced intracellular Fe2+ amount, thus attenuating oxidative stress. These results were characterized by reducing lipid peroxidation marker malondialdehyde (MDA) and acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family member 4 (ACSL4) expression, decreasing γ-H2AX and 8-Hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), and enhancing expression of the mitochondrial antioxidant enzyme superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1). Additionally, MK-4 suppressed mitophagy by downregulating PINK1 and Parkin, and upregulating Rab7 improving mitochondrial membrane potential. Consequently, abnormalities in chromosomes, spindles, and the cytoskeleton were significantly ameliorated in POA oocytes receiving early MK-4 intervention. Notably, in vitro-aging oocytes expressed higher FSP1 and VKORC1L1 but lower ACSL4 and MDA versus the in vivo counterparts, suggesting a milder lipid peroxidation in vitro. Collectively, our findings uncover a novel anti-aging mechanism triggered by MK-4, highlighting its potential to establish a preventive strategy for female reproductive aging.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Lipotoxicity-induced β-cell failure in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) involves intrinsic damage and inflammatory crosstalk with islet macrophages, but the initiating signals remain undefined. We identify NOX2 as the hub linking metabolic stress to macrophage-dependent β-cell injury. In high-fat diet-fed and Cybb-knockout mice, and in MIN6-RAW264.7 co-cultures, palmitate upregulates NOX2 in β-cells, activating TLR2/NF-κB/NLRP3 signaling and impairing insulin secretion. Damaged β-cells recruit macrophages via chemokines and drive M1 polarization. Activated macrophages release IL-1β and other cytokines, which suppress PDX1 and amplify β-cell apoptosis-a feedforward amplification loop. Genetic Cybb deletion or apocynin treatment disrupted this cycle, preserved insulin secretion, and improved glucose tolerance. We define the NOX2/TLR/NF-κB/NLRP3/IL-1β axis as the mechanistic link between lipotoxicity and paracrine inflammation in β-cell failure, and identify NOX2 as a therapeutic target for preserving islet function in T2DM.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Voltage-gated proton channel (Hv1) and the NADPH oxidase (NOX2) functionally cooperate to support ROS generation in immune cells through electrochemical coupling. However, whether NOX2 components directly regulate Hv1 channel behavior remains unclear. In the present study, we investigated the molecular and functional relationship between Hv1 and the NOX2 catalytic subunit gp91phox in BV2 microglial cells and the HEK293T expression system. Proximity ligation assay and co-immunoprecipitation studies revealed a physical interaction between Hv1 and gp91phox. Electrophysiological experiments showed that endogenous Hv1 currents in BV2 cells exhibited slow activation and deactivation kinetics, which were markedly accelerated following gp91phox knockdown. Conversely, co-expression of gp91phox with Hv1 in HEK293T cells restored a slow-gating phenotype resembling native BV2 currents without significantly altering the voltage dependence of activation, indicating selective modulation of channel gating kinetics by gp91phox. Notably, deletion of gp91phox resulted in a dramatic (>80%) reduction in Hv1 current density and membrane protein expression. Trafficking assays further demonstrated that gp91phox deficiency selectively destabilized membrane-associated Hv1 without acutely affecting total cellular protein levels, indicating impaired channel trafficking. Collectively, these findings identify gp91phox as a direct regulator of Hv1 channel function and membrane expression. Beyond classical electrochemical coupling, our study reveals a previously unrecognized role for NOX2 components in controlling Hv1 channel gating and membrane trafficking, thereby establishing a novel mechanism coordinating redox signaling and proton channel regulation in microglial cells.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To address the existing gap in knowledge regarding the small subset of chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) patients who present during the neonatal period, this study aimed to characterize their clinical features, genetic profiles, and long-term prognosis.This study retrospectively selected CGD patients with neonatal onset who were diagnosed using neutrophil respiratory burst tests and genetic analysis at the Guangzhou Women and Children's Medical Center, Guangzhou Medical University, between January 2018 and September 2024.This study included nine male patients diagnosed with CGD presenting with neonatal onset. The median age at onset was 20 days (7-23 days). Pneumonia was observed in eight patients (88.9%), with Aspergillus species detected in five of these cases (62.5%). The stimulation index (SI) in the neutrophil oxidative burst assay was significantly reduced. All nine patients exhibited hemizygous variants in the CYBB gene. The median hospital stay was 42 days (15.5-48 days). Three patients died due to disease progression during their initial hospitalization. Regarding long-term prognosis, one patient was lost to follow-up at six months of age, and three patients died from severe infections during infancy. The remaining two patients underwent hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) and achieved complete clinical remission.Patients with CGD presenting in the neonatal period predominantly harbor mutations in the CYBB gene, which are associated with severe clinical manifestations. Aspergillus species are the most common pathogens in these patients. Although the prognosis is generally poor, it may be improved by hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT).© 2026 Zhang, Xu, Fan, Zhou, Li, Yang, Wu and Lu.
Early-onset preeclampsia (EOPE) is a severe hypertensive disorder of pregnancy associated with preterm delivery and maternal multi-organ dysfunction. Although placental senescence and immune dysregulation have been implicated in EOPE, the expression profile of senescence-related genes(SRGs) and their mechanistic roles in disease progression remain unclear.Multiple placental bulk RNA-seq datasets were integrated to identify senescence-related differentially expressed genes in EOPE. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) and multiple machine learning algorithms were used to identify hub genes. Single-cell RNA sequencing was further applied to define the cellular expression patterns of hub genes and characterize senescence-associated changes in EOPE. Key findings were subsequently validated in clinical placental specimens using molecular and functional experiments.A total of 44 senescence-related differentially expressed genes were identified in EOPE placentas and were mainly enriched in cell proliferation-related pathways. LEP, ENG, MIF, and CYBB were identified as hub genes and were predominantly expressed in trophoblasts and immune cells. Single-cell analysis showed that senescence-associated activity was primarily enriched in the trophoblast lineage and further implicated LEP in syncytiotrophoblast (SCT) senescence and SCT secretory dysfunction, suggesting a role in EOPE pathogenesis.Our findings suggest that EOPE is closely related to placental senescence. Deeper investigation of SRGs and pathways may aid early diagnosis and clarify the molecular basis of EOPE.Copyright © 2026 Lin, Chen, Chen, Gu, Lai, Li, Peng and Hua.
Membranous nephropathy (MN), a leading cause of nephrotic syndrome, is associated with hypercoagulability and an increased risk of thromboembolic events; however, the relationship between coagulation-related alterations and the immune microenvironment remains incompletely understood. In this study, microarray datasets (GSE73953 and GSE140713) and single-cell RNA sequencing data (GSE233275) were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO), and a broad set of coagulation-related genes was retrieved from GeneCards. Differentially expressed coagulation-related genes (DECGs) between peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from MN patients and healthy controls were identified. Functional enrichment and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analyses were performed, and candidate hub genes were prioritized using multiple topological algorithms. Single-cell RNA sequencing data were analyzed exploratorily to evaluate the cellular distribution and disease-associated expression patterns of hub genes across immune cell populations. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were used to assess the apparent discriminatory performance of hub genes between MN and healthy control PBMC samples in an exploratory manner. Immune cell infiltration was estimated using CIBERSORTx, and correlations between hub genes, immune cell subsets, and coagulation-related genes were evaluated. In addition, glomerular proteomics data from PXD054062 were independently analyzed to explore potential links between systemic PBMC alterations and the local renal microenvironment. A total of 413 DECGs were identified, and five hub genes (CCL5, CYBB, C3AR1, JUN, and TIMP1) were prioritized. Among them, C3AR1 was closely associated with monocyte-related signatures and was positively correlated with the coagulation-related gene F2R. Glomerular proteomics analysis indicated enrichment of complement- and coagulation cascade-related proteins in MN samples, suggesting that local complement-related alterations may coexist with procoagulant or thrombo-inflammatory features in the kidney. Taken together, this study proposes a hypothesis-driven model in which C3a/C3AR1-related monocyte activation and F2R/PAR-1 expression may be interrelated with procoagulant and inflammatory features in MN. This model remains exploratory and requires direct validation in patient samples and mechanistic experiments. These findings may help generate testable hypotheses for future studies on MN-associated hypercoagulability.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder which is multifactorial in nature. Some of its characteristics are slow cognitive decline, memory problems and behavioral changes. AD patient brains show a progressive synaptic toxicity, autophagy, neuroinflammation, excess generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), neuronal death and oxidative stress, which occurs due to disrupted metal homeostasis along with tau and amyloid-β protein deposition. Notably, lipid peroxidation, iron buildup and elevated oxidative stress in AD brains suggest a possible molecular connection between ferroptosis and AD neurodegeneration. This study explores the genetic and bioinformatics perspective on the relationship between ferroptosis and AD aiming to identify potential therapeutic potential biomarkers using Neural network (NN) and Machine learning models. Six ferroptosis related genes were found to be differentially expressed in AD. Further machine learning analysis shortlisted four key biomarker genes. An NN-based diagnostic prediction model was developed and validated using AUC-ROC anaysis, which gave high diagnostic values (AUC- 0.92) in the analysis. The findings highlight a strong correlation between ferroptosis and altered metabolic functions in AD. miRNA-gene interaction analysis revealed that two biomarker genes, CYBB and ACSL4 can be regulated by several regulatory miRNAs i.e., hsa-miR-146-5p, hsa-miR-106b-5p, hsa-miR-223-3p, hsa-miR-155-5p, hsa-miR-34a-5p, hsa-miR-125b-5p and hsa-miR-27a-3p suggesting their potential as early diagnostic potential biomarkers. Immune microenvironment analysis revealed strong neuroinflammatory responses in AD with increased infiltration of macrophages (M0, M1 and M2), monocytes and multiple T cell subsets. This heightened immune activity may be driven by ferroptosis-induced oxidative stress contributing to neuronal death. Furthermore, druggability of these targets was evaluated and several drugs were identified that may be potentially repurposed for therapeutic intervention in AD pathogenesis. This study presents a diagnostic predictive model integrating gene expression, miRNA regulation and immune infiltration analysis, offering a novel perspective on early AD detection. The identified ferroptosis-related potential biomarkers and regulatory miRNAs could serve as valuable tools for clinical diagnosis and targeted therapeutic intervention, advancing personalized treatment strategies for Alzheimer's disease.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a severe autoimmune disease marked by immune dysregulation and progressive fibrosis, yet reliable blood biomarkers remain limited. Ferroptosis, an iron‑dependent lipid peroxidation-driven cell death pathway, links iron/redox imbalance to inflammation and fibrotic remodeling, but its role in SSc is poorly defined. To profile Ferroptosis‑Related Genes (FRGs) in Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells (PBMCs) from SSc patients and assess their clinical significance.Transcriptional profiles from four SSc patients and six Healthy Controls (HCs) were analyzed using the Arraystar Human LncRNA Microarray to identify Differentially Expressed Genes (DEGs). Ferroptosis-related DEGs in SSc (Ferr-DEGs) were obtained by intersecting DEGs with a ferroptosis database, and key Ferr-DEGs were prioritized using bioinformatic analyses. Immune cell infiltration was estimated using single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA). The expression of selected genes was validated by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) in an expanded cohort (SSc = 36, HC = 36), and correlations with clinical indicators were assessed. Diagnostic performance was evaluated using ROC curves.Microarray analysis revealed 397 upregulated and 637 downregulated DEGs in the SSc group. Bioinformatic analyses identified eight ferroptosis-associated key genes in SSc: MAPK14, SRC, ATF3, CYBB, ACSL1, STK11, PLIN2, and NCF2. MAPK14, SRC, ATF3, and CYBB were significantly upregulated in SSc compared with HCs, whereas ACSL1 was downregulated. Notably, SRC showed good diagnostic performance for SSc, with an AUC of 0.891 (95% CI, 0.819-0.964).Given the emerging link between ferroptosis and autoimmune diseases, exploring its role in the pathogenesis of Systemic Sclerosis (SSc) could open new avenues for improving diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.Our findings indicate significant dysregulation of FRGs in PBMCs from SSc patients, suggesting their potential involvement in inflammation, immune cell infiltration, and fibrosis; notably, SRC may serve as a candidate diagnostic marker for SSc.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Peri-implant soft tissue dehiscence deficiencies (PSTDs) are common esthetic complications in the anterior maxilla, yet the parameters that protect the peri-implant soft tissue margin (STM) over time remain unclear. Previous studies have identified several risk indicators, but longitudinal thresholds capable of predicting stable STM have not been established. This study aimed to evaluate 5-year STM behavior and identify clinically meaningful predictors of long-term stability.This prospective longitudinal study included patients with anterior single implants with or without PSTD. Clinical and ultrasonographic examinations were performed at baseline (T0) and 5 years (T5), and included STM stability (primary outcome), PSTD incidence, mucosal thickness at 1 and 3 mm from the STM (MT1 and MT3), keratinized mucosa (KM) width, buccal bone thickness (BBT), and buccal bone dehiscence (BBD). Logistic regression, receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) analysis, stratified subgroup analysis, and correlation testing were performed.A total of 133 implants in 124 patients were evaluated. PSTD prevalence increased from 51.1% at T0 to 74.4% at T5, (incidence 47.7%). MT3 was the dominant predictor of STM stability (AUC = 0.998). The optimal statistical threshold was 2.01 mm, while a clinical stability threshold of 2.23 mm yielded 100% stability in this dataset. Other predictors (MT1, KM, BBT) were significant only in univariate models. In implants without PSTD at T0, MT3 alone predicted stability, whereas in implants with PSTD at T0, multiple variables influenced STM outcomes.MT3 is the critical determinant of 5-year STM stability at anterior implants. In our cohort, achieving a MT3 ≥ 2.23 mm was found to be associated with a long-term stable peri-implant soft tissue.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Periodontology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Academy of Periodontology.
Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) is a rare primary immunodeficiency disease caused by genetic mutations. Clinical manifestations of CGD include recurrent infections, granuloma formation, and noninfectious inflammatory responses in multiple organs, while ocular involvement is uncommon. Chorioretinal lesions in cases of CGD are mostly inactive and tend not to affect vision, while active chorioretinal lesions and fundus hemorrhage are rare.A 23-month-old male child with CYBB mutation was admitted to hospital due to fever and decreased visual acuity. He had poor eye contact with others and needed help walking. Physical examination indicated reduced pursuit to light in the left eye and no pursuit to light in the right eye. Syphilis, tuberculosis, cytomegalovirus, herpes simplex virus and mass lesions were excluded. Dilated ophthalmoscopy revealed bilateral chorioretinal lesions and extensive fundus hemorrhage in the right eye. Ultimately, the patient lacked light perception in the right eye and had poor light perception in the left eye.Chorioretinal lesions in CGD are mostly inactive. Although rare, active lesions with fundus hemorrhage can cause visual loss. Recurrent infections may be a trigger for chorioretinal lesions. When patients with CGD have decreased visual acuity, timely fundoscopic evaluation by an ophthalmologist is necessary.© AME Publishing Company.
Osteosarcoma is the most common malignant bone disease. The current clinical treatment is difficult to deal with the high heterogeneity within tumors and the cellular dynamic remodeling during the metastasis process of osteosarcoma.Cell annotation was performed using the SingleR algorithm in combination with specific marker genes. Further subcluster analysis was conducted on osteoblasts, myeloid cells, fibroblasts, malignant cells and T/NK cells. Cell differentiation trajectories were constructed using Monocle2 and scTour for pseudotime analysis. The spatial transcriptome data was deconvolved using the CARD algorithm to verify the spatial distribution of cells.Compared with primary tumors, the microenvironment of metastatic tumors undergoes significant remodeling, manifested as a significant increase in the proportions of fibroblasts, mast cells and T/NK cells, while the proportions of osteoblasts and myeloid cells decrease. Spatial bifurcation pattern revealed a divergent evolutionary path from subtype 2 to other subtypes as the metastatic state. It identified YY1 in subtype2 as a spatial regulator of IER5L in the osteosarcoma microenvironment. The study also observed the reprogramming of immune cells and stromal cells in metastatic foci. In particular, the differentiation trajectory of TAMs (SLC40A1 → MT1G → CXCL10) suggests that macrophages undergo functional transformation during tumor progression under an immunosuppressive microenvironment.It is the most forward time for the large-scale integration of multi-center single-cell data and spatial transcriptomics profiles covering the primary, recurrent and metastatic stages, systematically depicting the dynamic changes in cell composition during the progression of osteosarcoma.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Metallothionein 4 (MT4) is a low-molecular-weight, cysteine-rich metal-binding protein belonging to the metallothionein family. It exhibits unique skin developmental and differentiation inhibitory activity when functionally impaired and regulates skin cell growth and disease through multiple mechanisms. However, its exact role in cell fate determination remains unknown. Here, we utilized the CRISPR/Cas9 system to generate a homozygous Mt4 knockout (Mt4-/-) mouse embryonic stem cell (mESC) line. This cell line maintains normal morphology, pluripotency, and the ability to differentiate into all three germ layers. It provides a valuable resource for investigating the mechanisms underlying skin diseases caused by MT4 gene mutations.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Post-translational modifications, particularly SUMOylation, plays a crucial role in α-synuclein (α-syn) aggregation, a key pathological feature of Parkinson's disease (PD). Curcumin, a natural polyphenol, has shown neuroprotective potential, but its effects on SUMOylation-related signaling in PD remain unclear.This study aimed to investigate whether curcumin modulates α-syn SUMOylation and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms in PD model mice.A PD model was established in male C57BL/6 mice via unilateral intrastriatal injection of α-syn preformed fibrils (PFFs). Six months after α-syn PFFs injection, mice were treated intravenously with curcumin (25 mg/kg/day) or vehicle for 1 month. Behavioral tests (open field, rotarod) assessed motor function. Neuropathology was evaluated by immunohistochemistry and western blotting for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), phosphorylated α-syn (p-syn), SUMOylation pathway components (SUMO1, SAE2, UBC9, PIAS1/2), and ubiquitin. Striatal dopamine levels were measured by HPLC.Curcumin treatment ameliorated motor deficits and anxiety-like behaviors in PD mice. It partially preserved dopaminergic neurons and reduced p-syn aggregation in the substantia nigra, accompanied by increased striatal dopamine levels. Mechanistically, curcumin was associated with reduced SUMO1 and increased ubiquitin levels, suggesting modulation of SUMOylation-related signaling. Among SUMOylation enzymes, UBC9 expression was decreased, whereas E1 (SAE2) and E3 (PIAS1/2) components were not substantially affected.Our findings demonstrated that curcumin exerted neuroprotective effects in a PD model by attenuating α-syn pathology. The protective mechanism involves the inhibition of α-syn SUMOylation, primarily through the downregulation of the UBC9 enzyme. This study identifies UBC9-mediated SUMOylation as a potential target for curcumin and highlight a promising strategy for modifying α-syn-associated pathology in PD.Copyright © 2026 Li, Zhu and Zhang.
Phytogenic feed additives encompass a broad category of plant-derived compounds that are used to improve animal health and production performance. Essential oils, as a volatile subclass of phytogenics extracted from plant materials, are recognized for their antimicrobial, antioxidant, and immunomodulatory properties and have been increasingly investigated as alternatives to antibiotic growth promoters in broiler nutrition. The study objective was to evaluate the effect of garlic and black seed oils on live broiler growth performance, immunity, and related gene expression. A total of 560 day-old Indian River broiler chicks were assigned randomly in a completely randomized design to one of four dietary groups, with each treatment consisting of 7 replicates (20 birds per replicate): control (CON; n = 140), garlic oil supplemented diet (200 mg/kg feed garlic oil, GO; n = 140), black seed oil supplemented diet (150 mg/kg feed black seed oil, BSO; n = 140), and the mixed oils group (200 mg/kg, 150 mg/kg for garlic and black seed oils, respectively, GO+BSO; n = 140). Supplementation with GO or BSO individually enhanced final body weight (p = 0.0356) and feed conversion ratio (p = 0.0407). White blood cell counts were lower in the treatment groups (p = 0.035). Serum triglycerides, VLDL, and AST levels were significantly reduced in the treatment groups (P < 0.05). Clostridium perfringens counts were lower in the treatment groups (p = 0.0006). Gene expression analysis revealed significant downregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-α) and AvBD9, alongside upregulation of LEAP-2 and SLC11A1 in liver and spleen tissues. Dietary supplementation with garlic oil or black seed oil significantly enhanced broiler growth performance, lipid metabolism, immune function, and gut microbiota balance. The combined treatment (GO+BSO) did not produce additive or synergistic effects, suggesting overlapping mechanisms of action. These findings support GO and BSO as effective multifunctional alternatives to antibiotic growth promoters in sustainable poultry production.Copyright © 2026 Obeidat, Khafajah and Riley.
Although bovine herpesvirus 1 (BoHV-1) causes massive losses of cattle, the transition from mucosal replication to neuroinvasion remains poorly understood. Using a controlled calf model, we integrated quantitative virology and transcriptomics to map its pathogenesis and define the role of promyelocytic leukemia protein (PML). Calves inoculated intranasally and ocularly (1.4 × 106 plaque-forming units/head) were sampled daily (1-14 days post-infection, dpi) for glycoprotein B (gB) qPCR. Tissues were analyzed at 4 and 14 dpi to measure viral DNA via gB-specific qPCR, and for mRNA-seq of trigeminal ganglia (TG). Shedding peaked at 3-6 dpi, being highest in nasal samples, lower in ocular samples, and substantially lower in rectal samples, and declined by 10-14 dpi. At 4 dpi, among the tissues sampled, the tonsils exhibited the highest viral burden. TG exhibited low viral levels at 4 dpi, although they remained detectable at 14 dpi, indicating neuroinvasion. The TG program shifted from early proteostasis priming (4 dpi) to immune/extracellular matrix activation with synaptic repression (14 dpi). In MDBK/Vero cells, IFN-α resulted in higher bovine PML (bPML) levels and enlarged PML nuclear bodies (PML-NBs), reducing very early viral DNA levels, whereas BoHV-1 disrupted PML-NB integrity. The different bPML isoforms exerted different effects on viral infection. STRING analysis revealed a conserved PML-SUMO1-UBE2I-DAXX-SP100 core. These findings delineate the mucosal-to-neuronal trajectory, establish PML as both an effector and viral target in complementary in vitro systems, and identify SUMO/ubiquitin-linked proteostasis as a tractable target for antiviral intervention.IMPORTANCEAlthough bovine herpesvirus 1 (BoHV-1) remains a major challenge to cattle health, the early transition from mucosal replication to trigeminal neuroinvasion has not been clearly mapped in natural-host calves. By integrating daily shedding kinetics, tissue viral DNA profiling, and time-resolved trigeminal ganglion transcriptomics, we delineate when and how BoHV-1 reaches the sensory neurons. Promyelocytic leukemia protein (PML) is identified as a key intrinsic antiviral factor that is upregulated by IFN-α and restricts very early viral genome accumulation, while viral BoHV-1-encoded infected cell protein 0 actively dismantles PML nuclear bodies. The discovery of opposing isoform-specific PML functions and a conserved PML-SUMO proteostasis hub provides mechanistic insight into BoHV-1 immune evasion. These findings refine our understanding of the mucosal-to-neuronal trajectory of infection and highlight proteostasis-linked antiviral pathways as promising targets for intervention.
SLC11A1 is a key gene involved in the regulation of innate immunity, and its expression level is closely associated with disease resistance in livestock and poultry, making it an important candidate gene for disease-resistant breeding. The functional characteristics of the promoter region are central to deciphering the transcriptional regulatory mechanisms of a gene. In this study, we focused on the chicken SLC11A1 gene and retrieved sequences flanking the transcription start site (TSS) from the NCBI database. By integrating bioinformatic analysis with a dual-luciferase reporter assay system, we systematically identified the core promoter region and functionally characterized the regulatory roles of cis-regulatory element and their associated transcription factor binding profiles. Results revealed a canonical TATA-box element located at -31 bp to -28 bp upstream of the TSS of the chicken SLC11A1 gene. Functional analysis using a series of truncated luciferase reporter constructs demonstrated that the region from -172 bp to +19 bp constitutes the core promoter of the chicken SLC11A1 gene, with the segment from -172 bp to -36 bp being essential for basal transcriptional activity, the TATA-box was shown to synergistically enhance transcriptional efficiency when combined with this region. Prediction of transcription factor binding sites indicated that Sp1 exhibited the highest binding frequency within the core promoter, followed by C/EBPalpha and other factors. These findings define the fundamental regulatory architecture of the chicken SLC11A1 promoter, providing essential insights for future studies on the transcriptional regulation and biological functions of SLC11A1.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is an immune-mediated cholestatic liver disease. Its molecular etiology remains poorly defined, hindering the development of mechanism-based diagnostics and therapies. Therefore, this study aimed to identify key molecular drivers and causal biomarkers of PSC by integrating transcriptomics, machine learning, and genetic causal inference.We deployed a computational framework combining transcriptomics, network biology, machine learning, and genetic causal inference. Peripheral blood transcriptomes from PSC patients and controls were analyzed to identify disease-associated modules. Candidate genes were refined via protein-protein interaction networks and a multi-algorithm machine learning screen. Causal inference was performed using two-sample Mendelian randomization, integrating plasma protein quantitative trait loci with PSC genome-wide association study summary statistics.Transcriptomic analysis revealed a PSC-associated module enriched in ribosome biogenesis and protein homeostasis pathways. A machine learning-optimized nine-gene signature (including PTMA, SUMO1, Shwachman-Bodian-Diamond syndrome (SBDS), RPL7, EIF1AX, ANP32A, PCNA, FAM98A, and MPHOSPH6) achieved high diagnostic accuracy (mean AUC = 0.908) and was consistently downregulated in PSC. This signature was linked to a remodeled immune microenvironment characterized by myeloid skewing and specific transcriptional-immune covariation patterns. Mendelian randomization identified SBDS as a putatively causal protective factor, where genetically instrumented higher plasma SBDS protein levels were robustly associated with a lower PSC risk (inverse variance weighted odds ratio = 0.525, 95% CI: 0.356-0.773, P = 0.001). Sensitivity analyses supported the validity of the Mendelian randomization assumptions.Our study establishes disrupted ribosome homeostasis as a causal pathway in PSC and nominates plasma SBDS as a high-confidence diagnostic biomarker and therapeutic target. The integrative framework provides a generalizable strategy for discovering causal biomarkers in complex diseases.© 2026 Authors.
Sorafenib resistance remains a major challenge in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Through an in vivo CRISPR/Cas9 screen, we identified protein SUMOylation as a key pathway enriched in sorafenib-resistant HCC tumors. SUMO1 expression was significantly upregulated in resistant tumors and cell lines, and its modulation directly influenced sorafenib sensitivity both in vitro and in vivo. Proteomic analysis revealed that SUMO1 overexpression enhanced glycolysis, and metabolic assays confirmed increased extracellular acidification rate (ECAR) and decreased oxygen consumption rate (OCR) in SUMO1-high cells. We further identified PKM2 as a key SUMOylation target, mediated by the E3 ligase TRIM28. The SUMOylation of PKM2 increased its enzymatic activity, promoted aerobic glycolysis, and conferred sorafenib resistance. The inhibition of PKM2 with Compound 3k reversed glycolytic flux and restored sorafenib sensitivity. Clinically, SUMOylated PKM2 was highly expressed in HCC tumors and was associated with the expression of markers of glycolysis and sorafenib resistance in HCC. Our study revealed a novel SUMO1-PKM2 axis that drives glycolysis and sorafenib resistance in HCC, suggesting a potential therapeutic target for overcoming drug resistance.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Tuberculosis (TB) remains a major infectious disease burden, and inter-individual heterogeneity in progression from exposure to active disease suggests contributions from host genetic factors. SLC11A1 (formerly NRAMP1) encodes a phagosomal divalent cation transporter implicated in macrophage-mediated antimicrobial defense; the non-synonymous rs17235409 polymorphism (D543N) has been evaluated in multiple populations with inconsistent results. We conducted a retrospective matched case-control study in Qiandongnan, Guizhou Province, China, including 50 patients diagnosed with TB (2022-2023) and 50 healthy controls frequency-matched by ethnicity and selected demographics. Participants were drawn from Miao, Dong, and other minority groups. Among TB cases, the frequencies of the GG, GA, and AA genotypes were 80.0%, 20.0%, and 0%, respectively, compared with 74.0%, 18.0%, and 8.0% among controls. The overall genotype distribution did not differ significantly between the 2 groups (P = .124). Under the dominant model, no significant association was observed between rs17235409 and TB susceptibility (OR = 0.71, 95% CI: 0.28-1.82; P = .635). Allelic analysis showed that the frequency of the A allele was lower in cases than in controls (10.0% vs 17.0%), but this difference was not statistically significant (OR = 0.54, 95% CI: 0.24-1.25; P = .214). Ethnicity-stratified analyses similarly showed no statistically detectable associations in Miao, Dong, or other groups. The minor allele frequency was 0.095, lower than the Han Chinese reference from 1000 Genomes. In this pilot study of multi-ethnic populations from southwestern China, no statistically significant association was identified between the SLC11A1 rs17235409 polymorphism and tuberculosis susceptibility. Although the A allele appeared less frequent among cases, the limited sample size and statistical power preclude definitive conclusions regarding modest or ethnic-specific effects. These findings provide preliminary genetic data from underrepresented ethnic minority populations and warrant validation in larger multicenter studies.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) is the most common autoimmune bleeding disorder in children and poses a serious threat to pediatric health and survival. An imbalance in Th17 and Treg cell differentiation leads to uncontrolled inflammation.Peripheral blood mononuclear cells and CD4+ T cells were isolated from 23 ITP patients and 23 healthy controls. Th17 and Treg proportions were quantified by flow cytometry, and serum concentrations of IL-17 A, IL-10, IL-22, IL-23, IL-6, and TNF-α were measured by ELISA. An ITP mouse model was established by splenocyte transfer, and AhR antagonism was evaluated using CH-223191. AhR SUMOylation was assessed by co-immunoprecipitation and western blot, and transcriptional activity was determined by dual-luciferase reporter assay.The Th17/Treg ratio was significantly elevated in ITP patients compared with controls (P < 0.001), accompanied by increased serum IL-17 A, IL-22, IL-23, IL-6, and TNF-α and decreased IL-10 (P < 0.001). AhR mRNA and protein expression were markedly upregulated in ITP CD4+ T cells (P < 0.001). Inhibition of AhR by CH-223191 reduced the Th17 proportion from 3.5% to 2.0% and increased the Treg proportion from 1.2% to 2.8%, normalizing the Th17/Treg ratio (P < 0.001). Consistent results were observed in vivo, with improved platelet counts and restored Th17/Treg balance. Mechanistically, AhR underwent SUMOylation at K63 and K510 by SUMO1, which enhanced AhR protein stability and transcriptional activity; this modification was reversed by SENP1-mediated deSUMOylation.Blocking AhR, which is modified by SUMO1 and deSUMOylated by SENP1, alleviates ITP-induced Th17/Treg imbalance through SENP1-mediated deSUMOylation.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Histocompatibility and Immunogenetics. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Chronic tissue inflammation causes progressive tissue damage, organ dysfunction, and increased susceptibility to inflammatory diseases. Viral infections are major drivers of this process, but the molecular mechanisms linking antiviral immune responses to persistent inflammation and tissue pathology remain poorly understood.The function of TRIM47 was examined using primary macrophages and mouse models of RNA virus infection. Alveolar macrophages, peritoneal macrophages, and bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDM) from wild-type and Trim47-deficient (Trim47-KO) mice were treated with RNA viruses or RNA mimics, and antiviral cytokine production was quantified. Sublethal reovirus and influenza A virus infection mouse models were used to evaluate survival, cytokine responses, and viral titers in vivo. Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS) was used to identify TRIM47-interacting proteins. Molecular and biochemical assays were used to examine post-translational modification, aggregation and activation of mitochondrial antiviral-signaling protein (MAVS).TRIM47 was highly expressed in macrophages, and TRIM47 deficiency in BMDM markedly reduced type I interferon (IFN-I) production following RNA virus infection or RNA mimics stimulation. In sublethal RNA virus infection mouse models, Trim47-KO mice exhibited reduced survival, impaired IFN-I responses, higher viral titers, increased inflammatory cell infiltration and tissue inflammation including myocarditis compared to wild-type mice. Mechanistically, TRIM47 interacted with MAVS and promoted SUMO1-mediated MAVS SUMOylation at K297 and K348, thereby enhancing MAVS aggregation and activation and driving robust IFN-I, IL-1β and IL-18 production in macrophages.These findings establish TRIM47 as a molecular switch of MAVS activation and antiviral cytokine responses in macrophages, highlighting its role in restricting RNA virus infection and mitigating inflammation. This study provides mechanistic insight into host pathways that may be therapeutically leveraged in chronic viral inflammation.© 2026. The Author(s).
The carboxyl terminus of Hsp70-interacting protein (CHIP, encoded by STUB1) combines co-chaperone and E3 ubiquitin ligase activities to regulate protein quality control. Heterozygous mutations in STUB1 cause spinocerebellar ataxia type 48 (SCA48), a progressive cerebellar ataxia with variable extrapyramidal and cognitive features. To understand the molecular basis of this variability, we systematically analyzed 13 SCA48-associated variants spanning the TPR and U-box domains through recombinant protein biochemistry and cellular models. TPR variants retained intrinsic ligase activity but showed significantly reduced HSP70 binding, impaired substrate ubiquitination, and decreased stability. Conversely, U-box variants abolished ligase function, promoted the formation of high-molecular-weight oligomers, and often increased CHIP levels while only partially impairing co-chaperone activity. Many mutants displayed temperature-sensitive defects and defective stress-induced nuclear translocation. Principal component analysis revealed distinct biochemical clustering specific to each domain. RNA-seq following STUB1 knockdown modeled CHIP insufficiency and showed preserved HSF1-dependent transactivation, but loss of CHIP's capacity to amplify ubiquitination, chaperone function, and stress-related transcriptional programs. Meta-analysis of 87 SCA48 patients linked TPR-like biochemical signatures to upper motor neuron involvement and U-box-like profiles to prominent dysarthria. Overall, these data indicate that SCA48 results from domain-specific disruption of CHIP's dual functions, producing varying degrees of CHIP insufficiency and/or gain-of-toxic effects that together contribute to the phenotypic diversity observed across patients. This work refines the mechanistic framework for SCA48 pathogenesis and highlights strategies for therapeutic modulation of residual CHIP activity.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Altered glucose metabolism is an auspicious feature of solid tumors, but is it an intrinsic property of tumor cells or a metabolic adaptation to the tumor microenvironment? Using normal epithelial cells cultured in a physiological culture medium under conditions that mimic the physical properties of healthy or cancerous tissues, we establish multiomics relationships between the biochemical and physical properties of the microenvironment and its impact on biosynthetic outputs of altered glucose metabolism. We find that microenvironmental properties, such as hyperglycemia, can affect the composition and thickness of the epithelial glycocalyx, in part through the activity of mechanosensitive stress responses associated with Heat Shock Factor 1 (HSF1). Because glycocalyx thickness alters immune surveillance of epithelial-origin tumor cells, we examined the relationship between the HSF1-hyperglycemia axis in human breast tumors and validate it as a druggable vulnerability to license natural killer cell lethality against cancer cells.
Chronic oxidative stress has long been implicated in renal pathologies, but whether sustained oxidative damage primarily promotes chronic kidney disease (CKD) or tumorigenesis remains unclear. To address this question, we investigated the long-term effects of oxidative stress on human embryonic kidney (HEK293T) cells chronically exposed to a low dose of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2, 50 μM H2O2) for 9 months, generating two adapted lines, 50R30 and 50R45. These cells exhibited enhanced survival and tolerance to acute high-dose H2O2 challenge, indicating an oxidative stress-resistant phenotype. Despite this adaptation, both cell lines showed markedly reduced proliferation and migration, reflecting loss of cellular vitality and function typical of renal degeneration. Transcriptomic and protein analyses revealed upregulation of genes and proteins involved in cell-cycle arrest (p53 and p21), senescence, and the NF-κB/IL-6-driven senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP), oxidative stress responses, together with elevated heat shock factor 1 (HSF1) expression indicative of biomolecular damage and impaired adaptive capacity. Collectively, these findings suggest that chronic oxidative stress drives cellular aging and dysfunction rather than malignant transformation, leading to degenerative changes resembling CKD pathology. Moreover, prolonged oxidative stress alone appears insufficient to induce carcinogenic transformation; additional genetic or epigenetic alterations, together with specific cellular machinery, are likely required to drive kidney malignancy. This study therefore provides mechanistic insight into how sustained oxidative stress promotes renal cell senescence and contributes to CKD progression.Copyright © 2026 Napat Armartmuntree et al. Oxidative Medicine and Cellular Longevity published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Osteosarcoma (OS) is a malignant bone tumor that predominantly affects adolescents. Due to its early metastatic tendency and chemoresistance, long-term survival rates in patients have not shown significant improvement over time, highlighting the urgent need for novel molecular targets and therapeutic strategies. Ferroptosis, a form of programmed cell death driven by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation, offers a promising avenue for overcoming drug-resistant tumors. ATP-binding cassette subfamily B member 6 (ABCB6) belongs to the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter superfamily and is mainly localised to the outer mitochondrial membrane, where it participates in haem synthesis and intracellular iron transport. Recent studies have indicated that ABCB6 is aberrantly expressed in various malignancies and regulates tumor progression, yet its role and mechanism in OS remain unexplored. The present study aims to systematically characterise the expression pattern, clinical prognostic significance, and biological functions of ABCB6 in OS, and to dissect the molecular mechanism by which ABCB6 governs ferroptosis in OS cells, thereby providing a theoretical foundation for ABCB6-targeted therapy.Human OS cell lines (HOS and 143B) and human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) were used as research subjects. Stable ABCB6-knockdown OS cell lines were established via lentivirus-mediated RNA interference, and rescue experiments were performed using lentiviral overexpression of hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF1A). Cell proliferation was assessed by cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) and colony formation assays; migration was evaluated by Transwell and scratch wound-healing assays; apoptosis was detected by flow cytometry. Ferroptosis-related phenotypic assays were employed to determine the impact of ABCB6 expression on ferroptosis. Transcriptome sequencing was conducted to analyse differentially expressed genes and enriched pathways; chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and dual-luciferase reporter assays were applied to verify the direct binding of HIF1A to the promoter of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) and its transcriptional regulation. Iron chelator and proteasome inhibitor interventions were used to validate the regulation of HIF1A protein stability by Fe2+. In vivo, ABCB6-knockdown and control 143B cells were injected subcutaneously into nude mice to establish a xenograft tumor model, and tumor growth was monitored.Both messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein levels of ABCB6 were significantly higher in OS cell lines than in BMSCs (both P<0.05), and analysis of the Therapeutically Applicable Research to Generate Effective Treatments (TARGET)-OS cohort revealed that patients with high ABCB6 expression had markedly worse overall survival than those with low expression [hazard ratio (HR)=2.94, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.36 to 6.36, P<0.05]. ABCB6 knockdown significantly suppressed OS cell proliferation and colony formation, reduced migratory capacity, and increased the apoptosis rate, accompanied by downregulation of N-cadherin and upregulation of E-cadherin and cleaved caspase-3 (all P<0.05). ABCB6 silencing markedly elevated the proportion of Liperfluo-positive cells and dihydroethidium (DHE) oxidation levels, increased intracellular Fe2+ concentration, decreased the glutathione (GSH)/oxidized glutathione (GSSG) ratio, reduced mitochondrial membrane potential, and induced typical ferroptotic mitochondrial morphological changes (shrinkage and cristae reduction) as observed by transmission electron microscope (all P<0.05); these oxidative alterations were reversed by the ferroptosis inhibitors. ABCB6 knockdown downregulated GPX4 at both protein and mRNA levels, whereas solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11) expression remained unchanged (P>0.05). Transcriptome sequencing and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis showed significant enrichment of the HIF-1 signalling pathway in the control group (P<0.001); ABCB6 knockdown decreased HIF1A protein expression, and treatment with an iron chelator or a proteasome inhibitor reversed this degradation through Fe2+ chelation or inhibition of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway, respectively (all P<0.05). Chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (ChIP-qPCR) and dual-luciferase reporter assays confirmed that HIF1A directly binds to the GPX4 promoter and activates its transcription. Overexpression of HIF1A in ABCB6-knockdown cells restored GPX4 expression and significantly rescued the proliferation inhibition, migration impairment, and apoptosis increase caused by ABCB6 silencing, while also restoring mitochondrial membrane potential (all P<0.05). In the xenograft model, tumors from the ABCB6-knockdown group exhibited significantly reduced volume and weight compared with the control group (all P<0.05); immunohistochemistry confirmed downregulation of HIF1A and GPX4, reduced Ki-67 and N-cadherin positivity, and increased cleaved caspase-3 and E-cadherin positivity in the knockdown group (all P<0.05).This study systematically uncovers, for the first time, the oncogenic role and prognostic value of ABCB6 in OS, and delineates the complete "ABCB6/Fe2+/HIF1A/GPX4" axis that governs ferroptosis in OS cells. These findings not only provide a novel biomarker for molecular subtyping and prognostic evaluation of OS, but also establish a theoretical basis for therapeutic strategies that target the ABCB6/HIF1A/GPX4 axis to induce ferroptosis. Future investigations may explore the upstream regulators of ABCB6 and its potential utility in reversing chemoresistance in OS.
Heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) can assemble with other extracellular matrix proteins to form deoxycholate-insoluble aggregates in multiple sclerosis (MS) lesions, impairing oligodendrocyte (OLG) maturation and remyelination. However, soluble HSP70 supports myelination. HSP70 may also promote bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) toward classically and alternatively activated phenotypes, which may regulate OLG maturation. Given the roles of HSP70 in OLG maturation and in shaping microglial/BMDM phenotypes in MS lesions, we investigated how HSP70 in microglia/macrophages regulates OLG maturation in a toxin-induced demyelination model. Our results suggest that rrHSP70 may maintain HSP70 expression in microglia and BMDMs in vitro. Tandem mass tag (TMT)-labeled quantitative proteomic, post-translational modification, and phagocytosis analyses showed that rrHSP70 may induce Fc gamma R-mediated phagocytosis in microglia and BMDMs, enabling rrHSP70 engulfment and enhancing heat shock factor 1 (HSF-1) phosphorylation. Blocking or inhibiting CD45 activity reduced rrHSP70 phagocytosis and HSF-1 phosphorylation in microglia. These findings suggest that rrHSP70 may induce Fc gamma R-mediated phagocytosis in microglia and BMDMs, leading these cells to phagocytose rrHSP70 and enhance HSF-1 phosphorylation, thereby maintaining HSP70 expression in vitro. Furthermore, HSP70 levels increased during early demyelination in the animal model, suggesting that HSP70 may induce microglial/macrophage phagocytosis to remove factors that inhibit remyelination, thereby facilitating later remyelination. rrHSP70 likely promoted OLG maturation both in vivo and in vitro, as well as remyelination, possibly by enhancing myelin basic protein (MBP) expression and facilitating phosphorylated MBP redistribution. Overall, context-dependent HSP70 upregulation may be crucial for enhancing remyelination in MS lesions.Copyright © 2026 Song, Wang, Li, Wang, Li, Huang, Zhang, Wan, Ye, Zhou, Yang, Li, Zhang, Sun, Wan, Hou, Leng and Wang.
Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a leading cause of heart failure with notable sex differences in susceptibility and progression. Although sarcomere mutations such as cardiac actin ACTC1 p.T126I contribute to familial DCM, the in vivo effects and sex-specific consequences remain unclear. We generated a zebrafish model carrying the orthologous Acta1b p.T126I mutation and conducted longitudinal, sex-stratified analyses of cardiac function, morphology and gene expression. Mutants showed variable onset of cardiac dysfunction, with progressive DCM, pericardial effusion, ventricular dilation, and reduced survival in adults. Female mutants exhibited earlier and sustained diastolic dysfunction, greater cardiac remodeling and significantly lower survival compared to males, revealing pronounced sexual dimorphism. Molecular profiling at a pre-symptomatic stage identified upregulation of nppb, downregulation of hypertrophic transcription factors (gata4, mef2ca), and sex-specific alterations in calcium handling genes (serca2, pln1, slc8a1a) and proteostasis regulators (hsf1, bag3). Older stages demonstrated a variable shift of individuals' gene expression to cardiac remodeling and decompensation. These findings demonstrate that the Acta1b p.T126I mutation drives progressive, sex-specific DCM in zebrafish, highlighting biological sex as a critical modifier of sarcomeric cardiomyopathy progression and targeted therapy development.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Longevity and stress resilience require precise coordination of gene expression programs across tissues. Here, we demonstrate that overexpression of the chromatin reader bet-1 specifically in neurons of Caenorhabditis elegans promotes organismal longevity and stress resistance via cell-nonautonomous signaling. Neuronal bet-1 elicits a neurotransmitter-dependent signal that activates the conserved stress-responsive transcription factor HSF-1 in the intestine, enhancing proteostasis, oxidative stress resistance, metabolic remodeling, and immune defense. Life span extension by neuronal bet-1 requires both hsf-1 and daf-16 in neurons but only requires hsf-1 in peripheral tissues. Using bulk RNA sequencing, we reveal distinct prolongevity pathways that include enhanced heat-shock response, proteostasis, increased actin stability, and resistance to pathogens, which likely together coordinate the prolongevity effects of neuronal bet-1 Our findings establish BET-1 as a potent nonautonomous regulator of aging and stress response, highlighting chromatin readers as upstream modulators of intertissue signaling and systemic resilience.© 2026 Dutta et al.; Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.
Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a major cause of organ disease among immunonaïve and immunocompromised individuals. HCMV infection stimulates the survival of normally short-lived circulating monocytes, allowing these blood cells to mediate the dissemination of the virus from the initial point of infection to distant organ sites. We previously showed that HCMV induces a non-canonical phosphorylation of Akt within infected monocytes that activates the stress response transcription factor Heat Shock Factor 1 (HSF1). In this study, we demonstrate that HSF1 is necessary for the survival of HCMV-infected monocytes using both pharmacological and genetic approaches. In contrast, HSF1 inhibition had minimal effect on the viability of uninfected cells, indicating the specific involvement of HSF1 on the survival of infected monocytes. Surprisingly, the aberrant activation of HSF1 by HCMV did not trigger nuclear relocalization, suggesting that HSF1's regulation of monocyte viability occurs within the cytoplasm. Indeed, we found that HCMV-activated, cytoplasmic HSF1 directly binds to mTOR, a critical component of the mTORC1 complex involved in the regulation of mRNA translation. SUnSET (Surface Sensing of Translation) assays revealed HCMV-activated HSF1 increases mRNA translation through mTORC1. Ribosomal profiling identified the increased translation of a selected subset of pro-survival transcripts, including cIAP2, which we validated to selectively stimulate the survival of HCMV-infected monocytes. Taken together, these data demonstrate that the non-canonical activation of HSF1 in infected monocytes drives mTORC1-dependent translation of antiapoptotic transcripts, ensuring the survival and dissemination of infected monocytes.HCMV is a primary driver of morbidity and mortality in individuals with compromised or immature immune systems. Spread of HCMV throughout the body relies on the infection of peripheral blood monocytes, which spread the virus to end-organ tissues. However, the naturally short lifespan of monocytes must be overcome to allow for viral spread to occur. Here, we demonstrate that HCMV uniquely regulates the cellular stress response to promote the long-term survival of infected monocytes. Specifically, HCMV activates the cellular stress response transcription factor HSF1 to block the progression of apoptosis. In contrast to traditional heat shock stress where HSF1 translocates into the nucleus to mediate transcription, HCMV infection retains activated HSF1 in the cytoplasm where it binds to mTOR to promote protein synthesis of prosurvival factors necessary for the survival of infected monocytes. Overall, our study provides insight into the complex regulator mechanisms through which HCMV usurps host stress responses to promote viral dissemination.
Although hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) therapy is an established medical intervention effective for various conditions, prolonged or excessive exposure can induce acute lung injury (ALI), the mechanisms of which remain poorly understood. In this study, we show that expression of CYP1A1 and CYP1A2, two isoforms of the cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A subfamily, is significantly upregulated in mouse lung tissues and primary mouse lung microvascular endothelial cells (MLVECs) following HBO exposure. Global double knockout of CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 (referred to as CYP1A-deficient mice) exacerbated pulmonary endothelial dysfunction and ALI in response to HBO, whereas CYP1A inducer β-naphthoflavone (BNF) ameliorated these pathological changes. Mechanistically, activation of the heat shock factor 1 (HSF1) signaling pathway mediates the protective effects of CYP1A induction against HBO-induced mitochondrial oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, and endothelial cell apoptosis. Critically, HSF1 inhibition abolished BNF-induced HSF1 recruitment to the succinate dehydrogenase subunit C (SDHC) promoter, thereby suppressing SDHC transcription in HBO-exposed pulmonary endothelial cells. Furthermore, the HSF1-mediated protection is dependent on succinate dehydrogenase C (SDHC), thereby linking CYP1A upregulation to the preservation of pulmonary endothelial barrier integrity. CYP1A deficiency leads to reduced SDHC expression, resulting in enhanced mitochondrial oxidative stress, impaired mitochondrial function, and increased apoptosis in lung tissues under HBO conditions. Our findings reveal a previously unrecognized protective mechanism in which upregulation of CYP1A serves as an adaptive response against HBO-induced pulmonary endothelial injury by attenuating mitochondrial oxidative stress and restoring mitochondrial homeostasis via the HSF1/SDHC signaling axis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Chronic intrauterine hypoxia (IUH) is a cause not only of early postnatal mortality but also of delayed central nervous system (CNS) impairments in offspring, including increased risks of acute cerebrovascular disorders, epilepsy, and neurodegenerative diseases. The above necessitates the urgent development of targeted neuroprotective strategies for newborns following IUH. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the neuroprotective effects of the 70 kDa heat shock protein (HSP70) modulators (angiolin, thiotriazolin, cerebrocurin, tamoxifen, glutaredoxin, and heat shock factor 1 (HSF-1)), as well as reference drugs, based on their impact on molecular markers of endothelial dysfunction (vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A), endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), nitrotyrosine), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), nerve growth factor (NGF), and caspase-8 in the brains of offspring after IUH at 1 and 2 months of age.Chronic hemic IUH was modeled in pregnant rats by daily administration of sodium nitrite (50 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) on days 16-21 of pregnancy. The male offspring were treated with the study drugs for 30 days starting on P1. Brain homogenates of offspring at P30 and P60 were analyzed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for VEGF-A, eNOS, iNOS, nitrotyrosine, BDNF, NGF, and caspase-8.IUH caused persistent endothelial dysfunction, characterized by decreased VEGF and eNOS levels, and nitrosative stress, associated with increased iNOS and nitrotyrosine levels. These changes were accompanied by decreased neurotrophin levels, including BDNF and NGF, and increased caspase-8 levels. Course administration of angiolin, cerebrocurin, HSF-1, thiotriazolin, and glutaredoxin improved the eNOS/iNOS balance, increased VEGF levels, and decreased nitrotyrosine levels, with the effect persisting until P60. Cerebrocurin and angiolin demonstrated the strongest recovery of neurotrophic factors (normalization or exceeding normal BDNF/NGF levels by P60) and effectively suppressed caspase-8 to near-normal levels. A positive correlation was established between BDNF, NGF, and HSP70 levels.Pharmacological modulators of HSP70 provide effective multimodal neuroprotection due to endothelioprotective and neurotrophic effects. Angiolin and Cerebrocurin demonstrate significant therapeutic potential, offering a promising strategy for mitigating the long-term neurological sequelae of IUH.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
The molecular characterization of Pituitary neuroendocrine tumors (PitNETs) has progressed pronouncedly in recent years, unraveling the molecular pathways driving initiation and progression of the different PitNET types, and allowing better understanding of their biology. The most frequent recurring somatic driver alterations were recognized in corticotroph PitNETs (USP8, USP48, BRAF) and somatotroph PitNETs (GNAS), and, much less frequently, in lactotroph PitNETs (SF3B1). Additional well-characterized somatic driver alterations, including TP53, ATRX, and DAXX, are enriched in aggressive corticotroph tumors. Identification of new molecular markers and delineation of their clinical phenotypes are enabling further subclassification of PitNETs based on tumor molecular profiles, with earlier recognition of more aggressive variants. These molecular markers also provide an opportunity for new targeted therapies. Beyond single-gene alterations, epigenetic modifications, such as DNA methylation, histone modifications, and non-coding RNA dysregulation, are emerging as important contributors to PitNET pathogenesis and potential therapeutic targets. Multi-omics approaches encompassing genomics, transcriptomics, epigenomics, and proteomics are transforming PitNET classification. In this review, we provide a comprehensive, data-driven update on somatic driver alterations, epigenetic alterations, converging signaling pathways, and the related emerging therapeutic targets in PitNETs, integrating pooled analyses from published cohorts.© the author(s).
Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common form of dementia, remains without effective therapies. Dysregulated eukaryotic elongation factor 2 kinase/eukaryotic elongation factor 2 (eEF2K/eEF2) pathway leads to aberrant protein synthesis and impaired neuronal function in AD, positioning this axis as a promising therapeutic target. However, effective pharmacological modulators of eEF2K/eEF2 remain limited. Betulinaldehyde (Betu), an active ingredient derived from traditional Chinese medicine, remains to be thoroughly evaluated as a potential neuroprotective agent.This study aims to investigate the therapeutic effects of Betu on AD and determine whether its activities are mediated through the eEF2K/eEF2 pathway.Neuronal cell models were used to assess the effects of Betu on β-amyloid 42 (Aβ42)-induced neuronal death, dendritic spine damage, protein synthesis inhibition, and eEF2 hyperphosphorylation. The eEF2K agonist nelfinavir (NFV) and the protein synthesis inhibitors cycloheximide (CHX) and anisomycin (AS) were used to investigate the involvement of the eEF2K/eEF2 pathway and its regulated protein synthesis in the action of Betu. The cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA) was used to detect potential interactions between Betu and eEF2K. Additionally, the effects of Betu on reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels and the associated pathways were evaluated. An Aβ42-induced mouse model of AD was used to evaluate the in vivo effects of Betu on cognitive decline, hippocampal neuropathological damage, and eEF2 hyperphosphorylation.Betu significantly ameliorated the Aβ42-induced neuronal death and dendritic spine damage, restored protein synthesis, and reversed eEF2 hyperphosphorylation. The neuroprotective effects of Betu were effectively inhibited by the CHX, AS, or NFV treatment, and CETSA supported a potential interaction between Betu and eEF2K. Furthermore, Betu reversed Aβ42-induced ROS accumulation and upregulated nuclear factor-like 2 and heme oxygenase-1, potential downstream effectors of the eEF2K pathway. In an Aβ42-induced AD mouse model, Betu treatment markedly ameliorated cognitive decline, concomitant with attenuated neuropathological damage and restored eEF2 phosphorylation in the hippocampus.These findings demonstrate that Betu protects against Aβ42-induced neurotoxicity by modulating the eEF2K/eEF2 pathway, highlighting its potential as a lead compound for AD.© 2026 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Patients with pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours (PNETs) often have similar baseline clinical characteristics, including grade and molecular imaging phenotype, yet have highly variable responses to peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT). To identify genomic alterations and mutational patterns associated with PRRT treatment response and acquired somatic changes following PRRT exposure, whole genome or exome sequencing was applied to 40 PNET samples from 32 patients, including eight paired pre- or post-PRRT samples. The genomic profile of tumours reflected the known mutational landscape of PNET with MEN1 (34%), ATRX/DAXX (47%) alterations and a recurrent pattern of aneuploidy (38%) detected. A recurrent PSIP1::TBL1X fusion of unknown function was also identified in four tumours. The disease control rate following PRRT using RECIST1.1 and molecular imaging criteria was 88% (28/32). No mutational features were found to be statistically associated with progression-free survival. There was no significant increase in tumour mutational burden in the post-PRRT tumours, nor recurrent emergent mutational changes in cancer driver genes to explain progression to higher-grade disease, when observed. However, a small indel signature (ID8) previously associated with DNA damage repair by non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) was higher in PRRT-exposed compared with PRRT-naive samples (23.8 vs 4.8%, respectively; P < 0.001). Thus, comprehensive DNA analysis of pancreatic NETs did not identify biomarkers predictive of PRRT response nor evidence for high-level PRRT-induced genomic instability or hypermutation, yet mutation signature analysis supports NHEJ as being important for DNA repair and survival of neuroendocrine cells following exposure to beta-particle radiation.© the author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42453394 is a review article
Alterations in alternative splicing are emerging as a novel cancer hallmark, offering new insights into tumor biology. However, integrative analyses of splicing are still scarce, particularly in rare cancers like pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (PanNETs), whose striking heterogeneity complicates patient diagnosis and treatment. Here, we provide the first comprehensive characterization of the RNA splicing landscape in PanNETs through integrative analysis of RNA-seq data from 174 tumor samples. We identified three robust spliceosomic groups (SPN1, SPN2, SPN3) each associated with unique clinical and molecular characteristics. SPN1 displayed intermediate clinical behavior alongside enhanced mTOR signaling; SPN2 was characterized by a less secretory phenotype, enrichment in alpha-cell markers and somatostatin receptors, increased metastasis, and frequent mutations in MEN1 and DAXX/ATRX genes; in contrast, SPN3 was composed mainly by low grade tumors with beta-cell marker expression and the lowest mutational rate, yet it also contained all the highly proliferative neoplasms. Moreover, each group had a specific alternative splicing events signature, revealing an unprecedented discovery: the association between the expression profile of the splicing machinery and its product, the splicing variants. We provide a detailed characterization of the molecular and functional consequences of the splice variants defining each of the spliceosomic groups. These findings underscore the previously unrecognized yet significant impact of RNA splicing on PanNET heterogeneity and suggest that detailed splicing profiles could serve as valuable tools for identifying novel biomarkers and therapeutic targets. Thus, beyond providing crucial insights into PanNET molecular biology, our study offers a foundation for future studies exploring personalized therapeutic strategies based on splicing features.© 2026. The Author(s).
Mutations in the ATRX chromatin remodeler confer a predisposition to a developmental genetic disorder and cancer, but how ATRX safeguards genome and telomere stability remains unresolved. Here, we uncover critical dependencies for the CTC1-STN1-TEN1 (CST) complex and RAD9A-HUS1-RAD1 (9-1-1) clamp in ATRX-deficient cells. ATRX-CST synthetic lethality manifests following accumulation of telomeric G-rich single-stranded DNA (ssDNA), which results in telomere loss and cell death. Conversely, we attribute ATRX-9-1-1 synthetic lethality to genome-wide ssDNA lesions, which compromise DNA replication. We further show that ATRX suppresses DNA damage during replication stress by counteracting the activity of the FAM111A protease. We demonstrate that roles of ATRX in telomere maintenance and replication are genetically separable, requiring its ATPase activity and PIP-box, respectively. We also show that such roles protecting genome stability are largely independent of the ATRX-DAXX interaction. Collectively, our data show that functions of ATRX in suppressing toxic ssDNA lesions are context-dependent and are key to global DNA replication and telomere integrity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42361287 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42351693 is a review article
A high-fat diet (HFD) is a major contributor to metabolic diseases, causing cardiac injury through inflammation, oxidative stress, and apoptosis mechanisms. Atraric acid (AA) is a natural compound with anti-inflammatory and metabolic regulatory activities; however, its protective effects against HFD-induced cardiac injury and the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate whether AA alleviates HFD-induced cardiac injury by regulating eukaryotic elongation factor 2 kinase (eEF2K). Using an HFD-induced mouse model and a primary cardiomyocytes (PCMs) model established with mixed fatty acids (FA), the intervention effects of AA were evaluated from multiple perspectives, including histopathology, cardiac function parameters, and serum myocardial injury markers. The underlying mechanisms were further analyzed using techniques such as histochemical staining, qPCR, and Western blot. Results demonstrated that AA intervention significantly improved HFD-induced myocardial structural disarray, cardiac dysfunction, and elevated cardiac enzymes. Concurrently, it markedly suppressed proinflammatory factor expression, enhanced antioxidant enzyme activity, reduced oxidative product levels, and modulated apoptosis-related protein expression. Mechanistic studies revealed that AA specifically enhances eEF2K activity, and blocking eEF2K reverses AA's mitigating effects on inflammation, oxidative stress, and apoptosis, as well as its protective effects on cell viability. In summary, AA may mitigate HFD-induced cardiac injury by activating the eEF2K signaling pathway to synergistically suppress inflammatory responses, oxidative damage, and apoptosis. This provides a potential drug target and novel therapeutic strategy for the prevention and treatment of metabolic-related cardiac diseases.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) develops as a result of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (mitROS) and apoptosis caused by increased Ca2+ influx via the overstimulation of transient receptor potential melastatin 2 (TRPM2). Psalmotoxin-1 (PSTX) has acid-sensing ion channel (ASIC) inhibitor and antioxidant actions in several cells. PSTX has been shown to modulate hypoxia-induced oxidative cytotoxicity and cell death in mouse eye cells by inhibiting ASIC-mediated Ca2+ influx; however, this mechanism does not apply to AMD. In this study, we investigated how PSTX inhibits TRPM2 to protect human retinal pigment epithelium - 19 (ARPE-19) cells against mitROS damage and apoptosis caused by sodium iodate (SoI).Control (CONT), 20 nM PSTX for 24 h, 10 mM SoI for 24 h, SoI + PSTX, and SoI + TRPM2 antagonist (25 µM N-(p-amylcinnamoyl) anthranilic acid, ACA) groups were induced in the ARPE-19 cells.The ADP-ribose-induced TRPM2 current density, Fe2+, and H2O2-induced cytosolic Ca2+ concentrations were elevated by the SoI treatment. Additionally, its treatment increased the markers of apoptosis, caspases (caspase-3, -8, and - 9), oxidative stress, and mitochondrial membrane dysfunction while lowering glutathione (GSH), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), and cell viability number. GSH, GSH-Px, and cell viability were enhanced, whereas oxidative stress and cell death indicators were decreased via TRPM2 inhibition by the treatments of PSTX and ACA.The results of the preliminary study indicated that PSTX incubation blocked TRPM2-mediated Ca2+ signaling, reducing AMD-induced mitochondrial oxidant injury and cell death. PSTX, a new TRPM2 antagonist, may be utilized to treat oxidative stress and aberrant Ca2+ influx induced by AMD.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Beta cell dysfunction is a critical factor contributing to decreases in insulin secretion. A growing body of evidence suggests the involvement of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress in beta cell dysfunction, which leads to the development of diabetes. On the other hand, oxidative stress also plays a role in the development of diabetes with beta cell dysfunction. Transient receptor potential melastatin 2 (TRPM2) is a Ca2+-permeable channel activated by oxidative stress and is highly expressed in beta cells. Some studies have claimed that Ca2+ influxes via TRPM2 in response to oxidative stress are involved in beta cell dysfunction accompanied by cell death. Although ER stress and oxidative stress form a mutually reinforcing cycle, the relationship in diabetes development between ER stress and the oxidative stress-sensitive TRP channel, TRPM2, has yet to be investigated. Therefore, we herein examined this relationship using Akita mice. Akita mice develop diabetes by ER stress-induced beta cell dysfunction accompanied by cell death. We found that increases in blood glucose in Akita mice were attenuated by the disruption of Trpm2. Additionally, in a glucose tolerance test, abnormal blood glucose increases with glucose loading in Akita mice were attenuated by the disruption of Trpm2. The results of this study using Akita mice suggest that the oxidative stress-sensitive channel, TRPM2, contributes to diabetes progression associated with ER stress.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42448410 is a review article
Diabetes mellitus is associated with neurochemical and lung imbalances. This study investigates the therapeutic potential of exosome (Exo) treatment in ameliorating systemic complications in a rat model of type 2 diabetes. Eighteen male rats were divided into three groups: Control, Diabetic, and Diabetic + Exosome-treated. After the intervention period, serum, brain, and lung tissues were analysed. In serum, diabetes induced hyperglycaemia and dyslipidaemia, all of which were significantly improved by Exo (p < 0.001). Diabetic rats exhibited significant elevations in brain malondialdehyde, mTOR, and GSK3β, along with reduced glutathione, serotonin, and dopamine (all p < 0.001 vs. Control). Exo treatment reversed these changes (p < 0.001 vs. Diabetic). In lung tissue, diabetes increased MDA, TRPM2, and NLRP3 while suppressed superoxide dismutase; Exo treatment ameliorated these issues (p < 0.001). Exosomes exert potent antioxidant and anti-inflammatory in type 2 diabetic rats in the brain and lungs.
Allergic rhinitis (AR) is a prevalent chronic inflammatory condition characterized by nasal itching, sneezing, and congestion, significantly impairing patients' quality of life. Despite the availability of various therapeutic options, treatment efficacy remains suboptimal for certain patients, and long-term use may be accompanied by adverse effects.This study examined the role of transient receptor potential melastatin 2 (TRPM2) in AR-like inflammation, focusing on its associations with T cell functionality, Th2 inflammatory responses, Treg/Th17 balance, and upstream Ca2+-NFAT signaling pathways.Using TRPM2 knockout and WT mice within an ovalbumin-induced AR model, this research integrated behavioral assessments, histopathological analyses, immunological assays, qPCR, and Western blotting to evaluate the implications of TRPM2 deficiency for clinical symptoms, inflammatory responses, immune cell differentiation, and related signaling pathways.TRPM2 knockout mice exhibited reduced clinical symptoms and nasal inflammation, lower serum OVA-specific IgE levels, and reduced expression of key inflammatory cytokines, including IL-4, IL-5, and IL-33. Furthermore, TRPM2 deficiency was associated with expansion of Treg cells, reduced Ca2+ influx, decreased NFATc1 nuclear translocation, and lower IL-2 production. Although IL-17 expression was reduced, the decrease in Th17 cell frequency did not reach statistical significance.These findings suggest that TRPM2 participates in OVA-induced AR-like inflammation through immune and Ca2+-NFAT-associated mechanisms, while the mechanistic and translational implications require cautious interpretation.© 2026 The Author(s). Immunity, Inflammation and Disease published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42429056 is a review article
Colorectal cancer (CRC) exhibits pronounced biological diversity, a feature increasingly attributed to alterations in cellular metabolic reprograms. Serine metabolism supports nucleotide synthesis, redox balance, and epigenetic regulation via one-carbon metabolism, yet its role in shaping the tumor cellular interactions and immune landscape at single-cell level remains unclear.Single-cell transcriptomic profiles (GSE284449) were jointly analyzed with bulk expression datasets (GSE271719), together with Mendelian randomization (MR)-based inference, to dissect serine metabolism in CRC. High-serine-metabolism (HSM) cell populations were identified using scMetabolism, and robust marker genes were selected through Lasso, random forest, XGBoost, and SVM-RFE machine learning approaches. MR was applied to evaluate causal associations with CRC risk. Functional validation included IHC, qRT-PCR, western blot, and LC-MS metabolomics, while CellChat analysis characterized HSM cell interactions with immune and stromal cells.ZBTB21 and TRPM2 were identified as core regulators of HSM cells, with ZBTB21 predominantly expressed in monocytes and pro-B cells. MR analysis suggested a potential inverse association between genetically predicted ZBTB21 expression and CRC risk, indicating that ZBTB21 may exert context-dependent effects at the population level. Cell-cell communication analysis suggested that HSM monocytes may interact with fibroblasts through signaling pathways including the MIF-SPP1 axis; however, these interactions are computationally inferred and require further experimental validation. Functional assays showed that ZBTB21 overexpression upregulated PHGDH and SHMT1, increased intracellular NADPH/NADP⁺ ratios, and influenced monocyte-related phenotypes. ZBTB21 levels were markedly increased in CRC samples relative to matched non-tumorous mucosal tissues.At single-cell resolution, ZBTB21 emerges as a metabolic regulator that strengthens serine biosynthesis and redox homeostasis. While integrative analyses suggest a potential link between ZBTB21-associated metabolic states and immune interactions, further experimental validation is required to establish causal relationships. This integrative framework connects genetic causality, metabolism, and immune interactions, providing mechanistic insights and potential strategies for metabolic-targeted therapies in CRC.Not applicable.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hyperglycemia drives peripheral nerve damage through oxidative stress, inflammation, and apoptosis, yet the role of redox-sensitive ion channels in linking these processes remains poorly understood.This study investigates the neuroprotective effects of luteolin (LUT) on streptozotocin (STZ)-induced peripheral nerve damage, with particular focus on TRPV1 and TRPM2 channels.Diabetes mellitus (DM) was induced in Wistar rats by a single dose of STZ (45 mg/kg). Animals were divided into four groups: control, LUT, DM, and DM+LUT. LUT (100 mg/kg/day) was administered intragastrically for 21 days, followed by biochemical, histopathological, and immunohistochemical analyzes of the sciatic nerve.Hyperglycemia significantly elevated oxidative stress markers (MDA, ROS), pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α), neuropeptides (CGRP, Substance P), and apoptotic markers (caspase-3, caspase-9, Bax), while reducing antioxidant defenses and BDNF levels. These changes were accompanied by upregulated TRPV1 and TRPM2 expression and marked histopathological deterioration. LUT treatment significantly reversed these parameters and preserved sciatic nerve tissue morphology.LUT attenuates diabetes-associated sciatic nerve damage and modulates TRPV1 and TRPM2 expression. To our knowledge, this is the first study to examine luteolin's effects on redox-sensitive TRP channels simultaneously in an STZ-induced sciatic nerve model.
Hypoxia (HPX) is a significant pathological factor that contributes to mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, inflammation, and calcium dysregulation in laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC). The redox-sensitive TRPM2 channel is crucial for mediating HPX-induced Ca2+ excess and subsequent cell death. This study investigated whether sinapic acid (SPA), a natural phenolic compound with known antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, can protect Hep-2 cells from HPX-induced injury by modulating TRPM2 activity. Hep-2 cells were exposed to CoCl2-induced HPX and treated with SPA (10-150 μM). Cell viability, oxidative stress parameters (malondialdehyde [MDA], glutathione [GSH], and reactive oxygen species [ROS]), intracellular Ca2+ levels, mitochondrial membrane potential, and pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β and TNF-α), TRPM2 expression, and PI-positive cell death were evaluated. HPX markedly decreased cell viability and increased oxidative and inflammatory responses, mitochondrial depolarization, and TRPM2-dependent Ca2+ influx. SPA significantly restored GSH levels, reduced MDA and ROS accumulation, suppressed cytokine production, and stabilized mitochondrial membrane potential. Moreover, SPA attenuated TRPM2 upregulation and effectively lowered Ca2+ overload. Co-treatment with the widely used TRPM2 channel inhibitor 2-APB further enhanced SPA's protective effects and produced the greatest reduction in cell death. These findings demonstrate that SPA mitigates HPX-induced cytotoxicity through antioxidative, anti-inflammatory, and TRPM2-modulating mechanisms, highlighting its potential therapeutic relevance in LSCC.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Biochemical and Molecular Toxicology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42242572 is a review article
Head and neck sarcomas (HNS) are rare, heterogeneous malignancies representing less than 1% of head and neck cancers. Their complex anatomy and overlapping morphologies pose significant challenges for traditional diagnosis. We aimed to evaluate the clinical utility of next-generation sequencing (NGS) within a tertiary referral centre and synthesise these findings with current global molecular standards. We conducted a retrospective review of an original, previously unpublished, cohort of 12 patients with histologically verified HNS treated at University College London Hospital (UCLH) between 2023 and 2024. Molecular profiling included targeted DNA (RMH200) and RNA-fusion panels. This was supplemented by a qualitative synthesis of 16 key studies (2010-2026) identified through a systematic search strategy. In the institutional cohort, NGS provided definitive diagnostic or therapeutic clarification in 66% of cases (8/12). Key findings included the identification of pathognomonic fusions (such as EWSR1::FLI1, PAX3::MAML3), a novel MAMLD1::VGLL3 fusion, and actionable variants such as BRAF V600E and MYOD1. Furthermore, the formal exclusion of Neurotrophic tropomyosin receptor kinase (NTRK) fusions in some cases allowed for therapeutic streamlining. Literature synthesis aligned these results and emphasised the need for NGS for more accurate diagnosis and adequate treatment. NGS is a clinical necessity in the management of ultra-rare HNS. By transitioning from traditional morphology to high-resolution molecular interrogation, clinicians can resolve diagnostic ambiguity and identify targeted therapeutic pathways. Integration with emerging 2026 standards, including epigenetic classification and liquid biopsy monitoring, represents the future of precision surgery in head and neck sarcoma.Copyright © 2026 The British Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The gene fusion KIAA1549::BRAF is a common oncogenic driver in pediatric pilocytic astrocytoma. The chimeric fusion protein that comprises most of the type 1 transmembrane KIAA1549 protein fused in its C-terminal cytosolic domain to the truncated BRAF oncogene without its N-terminal autoinhibitory domains. KIAA1549 has a large N-terminal ectodomain that undergoes extensive O-mannosylation directed by the POMT1/2 protein O-mannosyltransferase complex localized in the ER. Here, we investigated how posttranslational modifications contribute to KIAA1549 protein maturation in the secretory pathway. Using a panel of KIAA1549 expression constructs and glycoengineered HEK293 cells, we provide evidence that O-mannosylation of the KIAA1549 ectodomain is required for ER exit, acquisition of complex N-glycans, and subsequent furin-like cleavage in the Golgi. In the absence of POMT1/2 O-mannosylation KIAA1549 is retained in ER and fails to undergo proprotein processing. Our findings confirm and extend our previous studies with the KIAA1549::BRAF fusion protein, where oncogenic transformation was dependent on POMT1/2 O-mannosylation and affected on furin processing. Thus, these intrinsic posttranslational modifications of the KIAA1549 ectodomain are critical determinants of the cellular trafficking that lead to activation of the BRAF oncogene, potentially involving a cascade of cleavage events in the Golgi that ultimately release a truncated but fully active BRAF kinase domain into the cytosol.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Mutations in the BRAF (B-raf serine-threonine-protein kinase) gene occur in the majority of melanoma patients and significantly contribute to the progression of the disease. One of the most commonly used methods for treating melanoma is the use of BRAF and MEK (mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase) inhibitors. Unfortunately, resistance to treatment quickly develops in most patients. Therefore, an exhaustive understanding of the molecular basis of this resistance is crucial. We developed two melanoma cell lines resistant to vemurafenib (BRAF inhibitor) and cobimetinib (MEK inhibitor), which we previously characterized as highly invasive. Because cancer cells acquiring resistance may undergo significant metabolic changes, we investigated these processes in the obtained melanoma double-resistant cells. These cells exhibit increased glycolysis and elevated caveolin 1 levels, which contribute to their increased invasiveness. The mitochondria present in the peripheral region of the resistant cells are more functional than those present in the same region of control cells. Resistant cells also form more lipid droplets, but they are smaller than in control cells. Cholesterol ester level is reduced in resistant cells, while free cholesterol level is elevated. Moreover, resistant cells exhibit reduced lipolysis rate and expression of proteins regulating this process. In summary, the obtained results suggest that the purpose of metabolic changes present in melanoma cells resistant to BRAF/MEK inhibitors is mainly to support the significantly increased invasiveness of these cells.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Motivated by the rising incidence of cancers at younger ages, this study compares tumor genomic alterations between adolescents and young adults (AYAs; 18-39 years) and non-AYAs (40 years and older) and explores the relationship with continuous age in patients with relapsed/refractory ovarian, breast, and colorectal cancers accrued to the NCI-MATCH trial.Tumor genomic profiles generated by a next-generation sequencing 143-gene panel (NCI-MATCH assay, v2) were analyzed for association with age (AYA/total: 21/455 ovarian, 27/576 breast, 43/759 colorectal cancers). For each gene, AYA and non-AYA DNA alteration proportions were compared (Fisher exact test) and alteration association with continuous age (logistic regression) was evaluated (false discovery rate‑adjusted P value <.1 statistically significant). For colorectal cancer, sex-stratified analysis was also performed.No significant AYA versus non-AYA differences were observed in the prevalence of gene mutations (single nucleotide variant [SNV]/indel). A significant association of gene amplification with AYAs (odds ratio [OR], 95% CI) was CCND1 (0.2, 0.1-0.4), favoring AYAs in breast cancer. Examining age as a continuous variable, significant associations of gene mutations (SNV/indel) with older age, expressed as 5-year OR (OR [95% CI]), were observed: TP53 (1.3 [1.1 to 1.4]), ovarian cancer; CDH1 (1.4 [1.2 to 1.6]) and PIK3CA (1.1 [1.1 to 1.2]), breast cancer; and BRAF (1.4 [1.2 to 1.7]), female colorectal cancer. Associations with younger age included SMAD4 (0.8 [0.7 to 0.9]), male colorectal cancer. Significant associations of gene amplification with age (continuous) were as follows: CCNE1 (1.3 [1.1 to 1.6]), older ovarian cancer, and CCND1 (0.8 [0.8 to 0.9]), younger breast cancer.Comparing AYAs with non-AYAs among patients having relapsed/refractory disease, no significant differences in SNV/indel prevalence were observed, but CCND1 amplifications were more prevalent in AYA breast cancer. For several genes, DNA alterations were associated with continuous age and may depend on sex in colorectal cancer.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42566643
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565918 is a review article
Three-dimensional (3D) organoids derived from patient tissues have emerged as promising preclinical models that preserve tumor architecture and phenotypic heterogeneity better than conventional two-dimensional cultures. This study aimed to establish patient-derived 3D organoid models for anaplastic thyroid carcinoma (ATC) and clinically radioiodine-refractory papillary thyroid carcinoma (RAIR-PTC) and evaluate whether they retained the histopathologic and immunophenotypic features of their source tumors.Tumor tissues from patients with ATC and RAIR-PTC were collected, dissociated, and embedded in Matrigel for 3D culture. Organoid growth was monitored during serial passaging. Histopathologic, immunophenotypic, and targeted molecular analyses were performed.The TCO001 sample, derived from ATC, showed substantial growth for more than five months, up to Passage 11, whereas the TCO002 sample, derived from RAIR-PTC, exhibited limited proliferation and could not be maintained beyond Passage 3 after four months. These differences in culture performance were further supported by Ki-67 and p53 staining, which demonstrated markedly higher proliferative activity and a more aberrant p53 expression pattern in TCO001 than in TCO002. Histopathologic and immunophenotypic analyses showed a dedifferentiated, ATC-like phenotype in TCO001 and a more differentiated thyroid carcinoma-like phenotype in TCO002. Targeted molecular analysis further supported the biological differences between the two lines: TCO001 harbored a BRAF mutation and a TERT promoter alteration, whereas TCO002 was wild type for both genes, consistent with the matched primary tumor tissue.This study provides preliminary proof of concept that patient-derived organoid technology can be extended to aggressive thyroid cancer phenotypes and preserve subtype-relevant differences in differentiation state. Although preliminary, these findings support the value of thyroid cancer organoids as patient-relevant preclinical models and provide a basis for future molecular, functional, and therapeutic studies in aggressive thyroid cancer.Copyright © 2026 Nam Kyung Kim et al. International Journal of Endocrinology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Constitutive activation of the MAPK pathway is a hallmark of melanoma, leading to aberrant cell proliferation and survival. Although oncogenic mutations in NRAS and BRAF are well established, the functional and therapeutic significance of RAF1 mutations remains incompletely defined. Here, we identify RAF1 S257L and S259F as recurrent hotspot mutations in melanoma by integrating our hospital cohort with TCGA-SKCM. These conserved region 2 mutations relieve CRAF autoinhibition by reducing inhibitory Ser259 phosphorylation, resulting in elevated ERK signalling in a dimerization-dependent manner. Both mutants exhibit oncogenic activity and transform melanocytes in vitro, and the resulting transformed cells display intrinsic resistance to the RAS(ON) inhibitor daraxonrasib. Subsequent RAF-isoform knockdown and ectopic expression further demonstrate that daraxonrasib-resistant ERK activation is primarily driven by mutant CRAF. Importantly, in human melanoma cells, combined treatment with daraxonrasib and the MEK inhibitor cobimetinib effectively overcomes this mutant CRAF-driven resistance, producing greater suppression of p-ERK and cell proliferation than either agent alone and demonstrating marked synergy. Our findings establish RAF1 S257L/S259F as critical determinants of MAPK pathway activation and cellular response under daraxonrasib, provide mechanistic insights into intrinsic resistance to RAS(ON) inhibition, and underscore a therapeutic framework for genotype-guided combination strategies in RAF1-mutant melanoma.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42562082 is a review article
CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ dendritic cells (DCs) are pivotal players in orchestrating anti-tumor immune responses, particularly within tumor tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS). However, their heterogeneity, differentiation trajectories, and clinical relevance in bladder cancer remain incompletely defined. This study integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data (16 bladder cancer patients, 113,905 post-quality-control cells) and spatial transcriptomics to characterize CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets, their differentiation pathways (via Velocyto trajectory analysis), and intercellular crosstalk (via receptor-ligand mapping). A risk model (DTscore) was constructed using marker genes of these cells and validated in the IMvigor210 (atezolizumab-treated bladder cancer) and TCGA-BLCA cohorts. scRNA-seq clustering identified 10 immune and 3 nonimmune cell types, with T cells stratified into 8 subpopulations (including CD4+CXCL13+ T cells and CD8+CXCL13+ T cells) and DCs into 9 subgroups (including LAMP3+ DCs). Receptor-ligand mapping and spatial transcriptomics confirmed functional crosstalk between CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ DCs via key pairs (e.g., CCR7-CCL19, CXCR5-CXCL13, PDCD1-CD274) within TLS. The DTscore was developed using 8 marker genes (TSHZ2, ALOX5AP, GADD45G, TXN, CHN1, CCL19, CXCL13, ICA1) and exhibited robust prognostic and predictive performance: In the IMvigor210 cohort, high DTscore correlated with significantly poorer overall survival (OS) and a 3.27-fold lower immunotherapy response rate (11% vs. 36%, p = 4.23e-07); multivariate Cox regression confirmed DTscore as an independent OS predictor (hazard ratio = 1.97, p < 0.001). DTscore retained prognostic value in TCGA-BLCA (OS: p = 0.003; disease-specific survival: p < 0.001) and effectively predicted atezolizumab response even in the "immune desert" phenotype (p = 0.04). Combining DTscore with tumor mutational burden/tumor neoantigen burden yielded an AUC of 0.8122 for response prediction. Additionally, high DTscore was associated with higher OS hazard ratios in patients with wild-type TTN, RB1, EP300, or FGFR3 (all p < 0.01), while FGFR3 mutations correlated with lower immune checkpoint/CXCL13 expression. This study delineates the heterogeneity and interactions of CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets in bladder cancer TLS and validates DTscore as a robust tool for predicting OS and immunotherapy response, offering a potential guide for personalized bladder cancer treatment.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Epithelial barrier dysfunction is an early feature of pediatric rhinitis, but the upstream epithelial events that initiate this process remain incompletely defined. Because lipid remodeling and epithelial-derived alarmins may interact during type 2 inflammation, this study examined whether acid sphingomyelinase (ASM)-ceramide signaling is associated with thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP) release and barrier impairment in a pediatric rhinitis-related nasal epithelial model.Primary human nasal epithelial cells were stimulated with interleukin-4 (IL-4)/interleukin-13 (IL-13) (10 ng/mL each, 24 h) to model a type 2 inflammatory epithelial milieu. ARC39 was used to inhibit ASM, and siRNA was used to knock down TSLP. TSLP was quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA); barrier function was assessed by FITC-dextran permeability and ZO-1 immunofluorescence; ceramide levels were measured using a commercial kit; and sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase 1 (SMPD1) expression was evaluated by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and Western blotting.IL-4/IL-13 stimulation increased TSLP release and impaired epithelial barrier integrity (P < 0.001). ARC39 reduced ceramide levels and decreased TSLP output (P < 0.001) in a concentration-dependent manner, with an evident effect at approximately 5 µM, whereas SMPD1 expression remained largely unchanged. TSLP knockdown improved barrier function indicators (P < 0.05), and combined ARC39 treatment did not produce an additional effect beyond TSLP knockdown.ASM-ceramide axis modulation was associated with TSLP release and epithelial barrier dysfunction in this in vitro model. These findings suggest a possible link among sphingolipid remodeling, epithelial alarmin responses, and barrier injury, but further mechanistic and clinical validation is needed.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by S. Karger AG.
CYP4V2 is involved in lipid metabolism, but its contribution to asthma is poorly understood. This study aimed to investigate genetic polymorphisms and regulatory features of CYP4V2 in asthma development.We performed an integrative multi-omics analysis combining transcriptomic, genetic, and epigenetic data from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of individuals in the Singapore/Malaysia Cross-Sectional Genetics and Epidemiological Study (SMCSGES) cohort. The influence of CYP4V2 expression on asthma risk and expression of genes involved in arachidonic acid (AA) pathway were evaluated, followed by expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) analysis to identify regulatory variants. DNA methylation analyses were conducted to assess epigenetic regulation of CYP4V2, and promoter reporter assays were used to functionally validate candidate regulatory CpG sites.The upregulation of CYP4V2 in PBMCs was associated with an increased risk of asthma and inversely associated with PTGER2 and ALOX5AP in the AA pathway. The SNP rs2276921 was identified as the only expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) associated with both increased CYP4V2 expression and asthma risk (FDR-adjusted p < 0.05; OR = 1.24, 95% CI = 1.10-1.40). The minor allele G of rs2276921 was associated with low methylation at cg23232844 (p = 3.94 × 10-3) and cg11969330 (p = 4.25 × 10-2), located in the promoters of the protein-coding and non-coding CYP4V2 isoforms respectively. Promoter assays indicated that these two CpG sites inhibited CYP4V2 expression, supporting the regulatory effect of rs2276921 on CYP4V2 expression may be mediated through methylation.This study identified rs2276921 and CpG sites cg23232844 and cg11969330 that regulate CYP4V2 expression. CYP4V2 potentially modulates the AA metabolism and contributes to asthma susceptibility. These findings suggest CYP4V2 as a potential biomarker and therapeutic target in asthma.© 2026 Chen et al.
Phospholipase C gamma-2 (PLCγ2) catalyzes the hydrolysis of the membrane phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2) to form diacylglycerol (DAG) and inositol trisphosphate (IP3), feeding into diverse downstream signaling pathways. PLCG2 polymorphisms have been associated with reduced and/or increased risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related dementias, longevity, autoinflammation, and immune disorders. In the brain, PLCγ2 is expressed in microglia, and other neuroimmune and vascular interface populations, yet its role in brain homeostasis remains incompletely defined.We analyzed the brains of three-month-old Plcg2 wild-type (WT), heterozygous (Het KO) and homozygous knockout (Homo KO) littermate mice modeling human PLCG2 loss-of-function risk alleles linked to AD risk using a multiomic approach that included lipidomics, metabolomics, proteomics, and transcriptomics, together with immunofluorescence, as well as flow-cytometric profiling of peripheral and brain-draining immune compartments.Plcg2 deficiency substantially impaired early survival and produced splenomegaly without increasing total spleen cellularity, instead shifting spleen composition toward myeloid/innate-enriched cells and away from B cells, with expansion of age-associated B-cell (ABC-like) subsets and parallel reductions in CD4 and CD8 regulatory T cells in spleen and cervical lymph nodes. Brain lipidomics revealed selective depletion of PIP2, despite very low bulk PLCγ2 protein abundance relative to other PLC family members. PLCγ2 loss led to significant reductions in myelin-enriched lipid classes and myelin/paranode-associated proteins, accompanied by compensatory upregulation of oligodendrocyte/myelin genes, and modest shifts in microglial, lysosomal, complement, and oxidative metabolism pathways by NanoString and DIA-MS. Targeted acylcarnitine profiling demonstrated reprogramming of brain oxidative metabolism, with increased short-, medium-, and long-chain acylcarnitines and enrichment of mitochondrial matrix fatty-acid and amino-acid catabolic enzymes in Homo KO brains.Loss of PLCγ2 installs a coordinated program that compromises systemic immune tolerance and subtly erodes central myelin and phosphoinositide homeostasis while enhancing brain oxidative metabolism, effects that extend beyond microglial phagocytic signaling and may underlie increased vulnerability to AD pathology and aging, providing a mechanistic framework for how PLCG2 variation may link systemic immune regulation, white-matter integrity, and neurodegenerative risk.Because constitutive Plcg2 Homo KO mice display high early mortality and intestinal vascular abnormalities, observed phenotypes may reflect developmental compensation and may not fully recapitulate protective human PLCG2 variants.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511681 is a review article
Acid sphingomyelinase deficiency (ASMD) is a rare lysosomal storage disorder with multisystemic involvement. We report a 68-year-old asplenic man with late-onset ASMD and severe interstitial lung disease, chronic respiratory failure, and markedly reduced diffusion capacity. Treatment with olipudase alfa resulted in significant clinical, functional, and biomarker improvement despite advanced age and disease severity. This case supports the benefit of enzyme replacement therapy in patients with complex, late-presenting ASMD.© 2026 Published by Elsevier Inc.
Despite rapid advances in whole-genome sequencing (WGS), translating genomic findings into individualized insights remains challenging. We present GenRiskPro, a clinical decision-support and research platform, which automates WGS variant calling, annotation, prioritization, and reporting to deliver actionable findings and facilitate precision wellness. (To test the GenRiskPro platform, log on to https://www.phenomeportal.org/dashboard using the following credentials: Username: user@test.com; Password: test.) GenRiskPro integrates rare and common variant prioritization in a unified pipeline and in-house database, enabling both rare and complex disease and trait association analyses. Variant reporting is supported via LongevityCloud, which features a web portal for clinicians to review, adjust, and authorize the return of results in tabular and PDF formats, alongside a mobile app with artificial intelligence (AI) integration for sequenced individuals. Case studies using Turkish (TR, n = 275) and Swedish (SW, n = 101) WGS data assessed platform performance and variant prioritization: (a) predefined gene panels yielded a 1.82% positive rate for actionable findings per American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) secondary findings guidelines; (b) phenotype-driven support diagnosed cases including muscular dystrophy and microcephaly; (c) cohort-level ClinVar reassessment identified potentially misclassified pathogenic variants; (d) rare variant burden analysis revealed enrichment in ABCA4 for TR and SMPD1 in SW; and (e) population analysis highlighted carrier differences in trait-associated SNPs (rs12913832 and rs4988235) and PGx variants (CYP2B64 and CYP2B66). GenRiskPro unifies databases, literature, web development, and AI for rapid, user-friendly genomic analysis and reporting, which fosters collaboration among hospitals, researchers, clinicians, and patients.Copyright © 2026 Xiya Song et al.
To examine associations of inherited chromosomally integrated human herpesvirus 6 (iciHHV-6) with incident dementia and mortality, characterize proteomic and metabolomic correlates of carrier status, and evaluate whether these biomarkers relate to dementia and mortality risk.We analyzed UK Biobank participants ≥50 years of age with plasma metabolomics (N = 138,676) and proteomics (N ≤ 15,416) data and ≈15 years of follow-up. Cox proportional hazards models adjusted for key confounding factors evaluated associations of iciHHV-6 with dementia and mortality. Multivariable linear models assessed iciHHV-6 associations with metabolomic and proteomic profiles. Mediation and interaction were evaluated using structural equation models and Cox models with biomarker interactions. Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression identified independent proteomic and metabolomic predictors using imputed biomarker data.iciHHV-6 was associated with higher dementia risk (hazard ratio [HR] = 1.32), particularly among women (HR = 1.66) and individuals with elevated Alzheimer's disease polygenic risk (HR = 1.49). Branched-chain amino acids (leucine and isoleucine) were elevated among carriers without mediating dementia risk. Proteomic analyses identified 126 nominally associated iciHHV-6-related proteins, many of which (Neurofilament Light Chain (NEFL), Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein (GFAP), Yes-Associated Protein 1 (YAP1), Sialic Acid-binding Immunoglobulin-like Lectin 5 (SIGLEC5), Interleukin 19 (IL19), A Disintegrin And Metalloproteinase with Thrombospondin Motifs 16 (ADAMTS16), Sphingomyelin Phosphodiesterase 1 (SMPD1)) were also associated with dementia and/or mortality. Exploratory pathway analyses suggested enrichment of proteins related to immune regulation and post-translational modification. Predictive models identified NEFL, GFAP, Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A (VEGF), Brevican (BCAN), remnant cholesterol, and polyunsaturated fatty acids as dementia predictors (area under the curve [AUC] = 0.83), whereas NEFL, Growth Differentiation Factor 15 (GDF15) Latent Transforming Growth Factor Beta Binding Protein 2 (LTBP2), Ectodysplasin A2 Receptor (EDA2R) and Advanced Glycosylation End-product Specific Receptor (AGER) predicted mortality (AUC = 0.70).iciHHV-6 was associated with increased dementia risk, particularly among women and genetically susceptible individuals, with neuroimmune and metabolic biomarker profiles potentially relevant to brain aging and mortality risk.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
The development of local circular feed systems has increased interest in protein hydrolysates (PHs) derived from processed animal proteins (PAPs), which can upcycle protein-rich streams into functional aquafeed ingredients. This study evaluated novel PHs sourced from insect meal (Hermetia illucens), fish by-products and swine by-products as replacements for a high-quality fish PH (CPSP90) in diets for gilthead seabream (Sparus aurata). A control diet, containing 20% fish meal, 22% plant proteins, 23% PAPs and 3% CPSP90, was compared with three experimental diets in which CPSP90 was replaced by 3% of each alternative PH, resulting in the INSECT, FISH and SWINE diets. Seabream juveniles (11 g) were reared in triplicate tanks and fed the experimental diets three times per day over 88 days. A parallel digestibility trial was also conducted. All diets were well accepted across treatments (voluntary feed intake [VFI] = 1.7-1.8 g 100 g-1 average body weight day-1). Nutrient digestibility, fish final body weight (FBW; 60-65 g), feed conversion ratio (FCR; 1.1-1.2) and anterior intestine histomorphology remained similar across treatments. Fish fed the SWINE diet showed upregulation of mrf4, mlc2a and mlc2b, suggesting modulation of myogenic differentiation and muscle structural pathways, although this was not reflected in improved growth. Fish fed the INSECT diet showed reduced faecal lipid losses, together with downregulation of capn3, which may reflect metabolic adjustments related to lipid utilisation. Fish fed the FISH diet exhibited muscle gene expression patterns and growth performance similar to those of the control group. Alternative PHs showed potential to replace CPSP90 in gilthead seabream diets, supporting circular aquafeed formulations while sustaining feed efficiency and fish growth.Copyright © 2026 A. Alves-de-Oliveira et al. Aquaculture Nutrition published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Autosomal recessive forms of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy are caused by biallelic loss of function variants. Haplosufficient carriers are hypothesized to have sufficient protein expression to maintain normal physical function. This study aims to determine relative protein expression in haplosufficient carriers of 3 subtypes of autosomal recessive LGMD: LGMDR1 (CAPN3, calpain-3), LGMDR9 (FKRP, FKRP), and LGMDR3 (SGCA, α-sarcoglycan). In addition, this study clarifies fukutin-related protein (FKRP) enzymatic functionality in LGMDR9 carriers. Individuals affected with LGMDR1, R9, and R3 and corresponding carriers provided a muscle biopsy following a physical examination. RNA-seq analysis was performed to determine global gene-expression patterns. Gene expression of CAPN3, FKRP, and SGCA were determined using RNA-seq normalized counts, and relative quantification of disease-associated proteins was determined by western blotting. Carriers of LGMDR1 were found to have approximately 25% total calpain-3 expression compared with noncarrier controls, while LGMDR9 carriers had nearly 50% functionality of FKRP. LGMDR3 carriers exhibited α-sarcoglycan and β-sarcoglycan protein levels comparable with controls. Carriers of several autosomal-recessive LGMDs have reduced expression of disease-related proteins compared with noncarrier controls with associated reduced protein functionality. Since these haplosufficient carriers have normal physical strength, this degree of protein expression may represent the threshold to restore haplosufficient status after gene replacement therapy.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.
Immunotherapeutic strategies for triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) have yielded only modest response rates, severely limiting patients' clinical outcomes. Clarifying the underlying mechanisms to reverse immunotherapy resistance therefore represents a critical unmet need. In this study, we employed the single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-Seq) analysis of human TNBC tissues to identify inositol-trisphosphate 3-kinase B (ITPKB) as a central regulator governing cytotoxic T lymphocyte trafficking into the tumor microenvironment (TME). Ectopic expression of ITPKB robustly enhanced the secretion of C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9 (CXCL9), a critical chemokine required for effective anti-tumor immune responses. Mechanistically, elevated ITPKB activity accelerated the conversion of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) to inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate (IP4), thereby dampening IP3-driven endoplasmic reticulum (ER) calcium release. Attenuated intracellular calcium ions (Ca2 +) flux, in turn, promoted the recruitment of signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) to CXCL9 promoter, driving robust CXCL9 transcription. In addition, utilizing a stepwise virtual screening strategy of 3677 compounds, we identified amentoflavone (AMF) as a novel ITPKB agonist-like compound. AMF treatment could stabilize ITPKB by preventing Trim25-mediated K48-linked ubiquitination and degradation. Notably, in 4T1 and EMT6 syngeneic TNBC murine models, ITPKB-overexpressing or AMF administration exhibited markedly enhanced sensitivity to anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (αPD-1) immune checkpoint blockade. Collectively, these results position ITPKB as a therapeutically tractable molecular switch that remodels the tumor immune landscape via Ca2+-dependent transcriptional rewiring. Targeting ITPKB thus represents a promising strategy to overcome immunotherapy resistance and expand the pool of TNBC patients who may benefit from αPD-1-based immunotherapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Natural Killer (NK) cell desensitization induced by persistent stimulation limits durable antitumor immunity, yet the molecular mechanisms governing this dysfunctional state remain poorly defined. To identify conserved regulators of NK cell desensitization, we performed comparative transcriptomic analyses across multiple murine models of persistent activation and dysfunction. This approach defined a shared transcriptional program of desensitization and identified Itpkb to be upregulated across multiple distinct contexts. Genetic and pharmacological inhibition of ITPKB enhanced degranulation, cytokine production, and cytotoxicity in both murine and human NK cells under multiple desensitization settings. Mechanistically, ITPKB regulated signaling downstream of persistent activation through the IP3/IP4 axis, limiting calcium mobilization and NFAT-dependent transcriptional responses in desensitized NK cells. Furthermore, inhibition or deletion of ITPKB enhanced NK-cell mediated tumor control in vivo and improved the efficacy of adoptively transferred CAR-NK cells, underscoring the translational potential of targeting this pathway. Together, these findings identify ITPKB as a cell-intrinsic regulator of NK cell desensitization and support targeting the IP3/IP4 signaling axis to enhance NK cell-mediated antitumor immunity.
Synaptotagmins (Syts) are Ca2+-sensing exocytosis regulators whose tandem C2 domains interact with phosphoinositides and membranes to trigger neurotransmitter and hormone release. Although Ca2+ binding is known to enhance C2 domain-membrane interactions, the sequence determinants governing lipid binding and membrane penetration across Syt isoforms remain incompletely understood. Here, we performed MARTINI coarse-grained molecular dynamics simulations of isolated C2A and C2B domains from eight Ca2+-sensing Syt isoforms (Syt1, Syt2, Syt3, Syt5, Syt6, Syt7, Syt9, and Syt10) interacting with phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2)-containing plasma membranes. To systematically modulate electrostatic properties, we introduced partial and full charge-flip mutations at conserved acidic residues within the calcium-binding loops (CBLs). By integrating simulations across multiple isoforms and charge states, we sought to identify the dominant sequence determinants governing membrane interactions. We found that PIP2 binding to both, CBLs and polybasic patches (PBs), is associated with loop net charge, yielding correlations > 0.95 across all isoforms. However, membrane penetration is not sufficiently explained by loop net charge alone. The local phenylalanines additionally increase membrane penetration independent of loop net charge. Together, these findings establish a comprehensive electrostatic-aromatic framework where loop net charge governs PIP2 binding, whereas loop net charge and local phenylalanine enrichment jointly govern membrane penetration across Syt C2 domains.
The impact of maternal zinc-copper (Zn-Cu) homeostasis on offspring brain development remains underexplored. This study investigated the relationships between maternal zinc (Zn), copper (Cu), and the Cu/Zn ratio during mid-pregnancy and subsequent early childhood neurodevelopment, utilizing both a prospective birth cohort and an in vivo rodent model to elucidate the underlying biological mechanisms.This prospective cohort study recruited 725 mother-child pairs from the Guangxi Birth Cohort Study (GBCS). Multivariable linear regression models, restricted cubic splines (RCS), and formal interaction tests with stratified analyses were employed to evaluate the non-linear dose-response relationships and metal-metal interactions influencing the child's developmental quotient (DQ). To explore the underlying mechanisms and provide biological plausibility for the epidemiological findings, pregnant rats were divided into four dietary groups with varying Cu/Zn ratios. Offspring spatial cognitive behaviors were assessed via the Morris Water Maze (MWM), followed by high-throughput hippocampal proteomics.Maternal Cu and the Cu/Zn ratio exhibited significant inverse non-linear associations with child neurodevelopment across multiple domains. Crucially, the neuroprotective potential of Zn was significantly moderated by maternal Cu status; Zn was positively associated with developmental scores under low Cu conditions, but this benefit was progressively attenuated at higher Cu levels. In the MWM test, despite comparable baseline spatial learning boundaries, the Medium Cu/Zn ratio group displayed significantly altered exploratory patterns during the spatial probe trials. Proteomic analysis revealed a universal downregulation of the glutamate transporter SLC1A3 and significant dysregulation of critical synaptic markers (including SYT1, KCC2, and MAP2) across all Cu/Zn imbalance groups.The maternal mid-pregnancy Cu/Zn ratio is non-linearly associated with offspring neurodevelopment, potentially mediated by hippocampal synaptic protein alterations. These findings provide a preliminary conceptual framework advocating for personalized prenatal nutritional assessments, which should integrate dual-index monitoring and consider regional geochemical baselines to optimize intervention strategies.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Zhang, Huang, Cheng, He, Zhou, Zhang, Zhang, Wei, Liang and Yang.
Background/Objectives: L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L2HGA) is a rare autosomal recessive neurometabolic disorder marked by developmental delay, intellectual disability, and progressive movement abnormalities. Variants in RYR1 can cause congenital myopathies, but data on the co-occurrence of variants in populations are limited. The aim of this study was to characterize the clinical and genetic basis of the neurometabolic and neuromuscular abnormalities and to investigate the potential interaction between the identified variants. Methods: Patients with complex, previously undiagnosed clinical presentations underwent neurological evaluation, including brain magnetic resonance imaging, electromyography, biochemical testing, and whole-exome sequencing (WES). Identified variants were analyzed in silico and confirmed by Sanger sequencing in the patient and her parents. Three cases were reviewed, and one of these patients exhibited developmental delay, hypotonia, intellectual disability, and progressive motor dysfunction. Biochemical tests revealed markedly elevated urinary 2-hydroxyglutaric acid levels, consistent with L2HGA. Results: WES identified a homozygous likely pathogenic variant in L2HGDH (c.589_590insGGC, p.Q197insG), confirming the molecular diagnosis of L2HGA. In addition, a heterozygous missense variant in RYR1 (c.7268T>A, p.M2423K), classified as a variant of uncertain significance, was detected and was inherited from her mildly affected father. The L2HGDH variant explains the neurometabolic phenotype of the patient, whereas the RYR1 variant remains of uncertain significance, and its clinical contribution cannot be clearly established. Conclusions: To our knowledge, this case illustrates the co-occurrence of a likely pathogenic L2HGDH variant and a heterozygous RYR1 variant of uncertain significance. The findings expand the mutational spectrum of L2HGA and underscore the value of comprehensive genomic testing in complex neurometabolic and neuromuscular disorders.
Dantrolene is a clinically approved therapeutic used to suppress abnormal calcium release associated with malignant hyperthermia linked to RyR1 mutations. Cryo-electron microscopy studies have revealed a putative dantrolene-binding cavity within the RyR1 P1 domain and highlighted several residues associated with ligand recognition. However, the dynamic molecular interactions governing ligand stabilization within this region remain incompletely understood. MM/GBSA calculations, conformational entropy analyses, and potential of mean force (PMF) profiling were employed to investigate the local binding dynamics of dantrolene within isolated RyR1 P1-domain complexes. Comparative analyses of the P1 domain from open- and closed-state conformations of RyR1 revealed that the closed-state complex provides a more stable binding environment characterized by lower backbone fluctuations, enhanced ligand-protein contacts, stabilization of a distal loop region (residues 1006-1028), and higher ligand dissociation barriers. Per-residue energetic decomposition and interaction analyses identified W882 and W996 as major contributors to ligand stabilization through cooperative hydrogen bonding and π-mediated interactions. Alanine substitution of these residues increased ligand conformational flexibility and substantially reduced the energetic barriers associated with ligand dissociation, whereas R1000 exhibited comparatively smaller contributions to overall binding stability. Overall, these computational findings are consistent with previous experimental observations and provide atomistic insight into the interaction networks and structural determinants underlying state-dependent stabilization of dantrolene in a cryo-EM-derived RyR1 P1-domain binding model.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Background/Objectives: Germline pharmacogenomics (PGx) testing performed by clinical laboratories and companies can reveal secondary findings (SF) related to gene-disease risk that clinicians must appropriately manage. This study evaluated PGx panel content for potential SF using the Clinical Pharmacogenomics (ClinPGx) resource, the Clinical Genome Resource (ClinGen), and the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG). Methods: A cross-sectional review of PGx panels offered by laboratories and companies was assessed for ClinPGx PGx annotation, ClinGen's gene-disease validity and clinical actionability classifications, Clinical Pharmacogenetics Implementation Consortium (CPIC) incidental finding (IF) comments, and ACMG SF v3.3 inclusion. Results/Discussion: Forty-four testing sites provided panel content, yielding 125 genes, alleles, and variants. Of these, 26.4% (33/125) had PGx annotations while 73.6% (92/125) did not. A small subset of genes-CACNA1S, CFTR, G6PD, LDLR, MT-RNR1, and RYR1-had actionable recommendations based on CPIC and ACMG. Additional genes such as ATM, F5, ITGB3, and SCN1A may require consultation with genetics professionals. These findings underscore the need for a centralized resource for identifying gene-specific SF from germline PGx testing and guidance on their clinical management. Conclusions: PGx panels often include genes with and without established PGx annotations, some of which have potential SF implications. ClinGen's PGx Working Group, which aims to integrate PGx into the broader context of genomic medicine, may be well-positioned to facilitate the development of a standardized framework for managing potential SF from panel-based PGx testing as the field evolves.
Precise control of allelic outcomes remains a major limitation of CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing, particularly for genes in which biallelic modification is lethal or confounds disease modeling. Here, we present CRISPR-SWITCH (Silent mutations With Intention To Create Heterozygotes), a genome engineering strategy that enables deliberate monoallelic editing by exploiting allele-specific CRISPR targeting. CRISPR-SWITCH operates through the initial introduction of a synonymous nucleotide substitution that creates a unique guide RNA recognition site, allowing subsequent selective editing of the engineered allele while preserving the wildtype copy. We applied CRISPR-SWITCH to generate a mouse model of Baker-Gordon syndrome, a dominant-negative neurodevelopmental disorder caused by pathogenic variants in synaptotagmin-1 (SYT1). Conventional CRISPR-Cas9 editing of the Syt1 locus produced complex allelic outcomes characterized by biallelic editing and mosaicism, preventing reliable generation of the defined heterozygous genotype required for disease modeling. In contrast, CRISPR-SWITCH enforced heterozygosity by first introducing a synonymous Y364Y mutation and then selectively targeting this allele to install the pathogenic D365E variant. This approach produced viable Syt1-D365E mice with exclusive monoallelic genome editing, predictable preservation of a wildtype allele, and balanced (1:1) expression of mutant and wildtype transcripts. Together, these results demonstrate proof-of-principle that CRISPR-SWITCH can enforce heterozygosity at endogenous loci and enable the generation of viable mammalian models for dominant-negative and dosage-sensitive genetic disorders.Copyright © 2026 Norris, Yeddula, Su, Vandeloecht, Saunders, Wang, Boychuk, Arnold, Lorson and Davis.
Malignant hyperthermia (MH) is a life-threatening pharmacogenetic disorder triggered by volatile anaesthetics or depolarising neuromuscular blockers, characterised by dysregulated calcium homeostasis in skeletal muscle. Dysfunction of ryanodine receptor type 1 (RYR1) because of genetic variants plays a central role in MH. Functional evaluation of newly identified RYR1 variants is essential for accurate presymptomatic diagnosis of MH susceptibility. This study aimed to assess the function of novel RYR1 variants detected in Japanese patients.Six previously uncharacterised RYR1 variants were introduced into full-length rabbit RYR1 cDNA and expressed in human embryonic kidney (HEK-293) cells. Calcium release in response to caffeine and 4-chloro-m-cresol (4-CmC) was measured using Fura-2 AM. Expression of variants and wild-type (WT) RYR1 was confirmed by immunoblotting. Concentration-response curves (EC50 values) were analysed using Prism 9.5. Statistical significance was determined by an extra sum-of-squares F test (global fit) (P < 0.01 indicates statistical significance). Data are presented as 95% confidence intervals for EC50 values (n ≥ 14).All six variants (p.Ile2358Thr, p.Asp2431His, p.Asp2431Glu, p.Pro2366Arg, p.Arg2454Gly, p.Glu2545Asp) showed hypersensitivity to caffeine and 4-CmC. Best-fit EC50 values for caffeine (1.82-2.50 mM) and 4-CmC (74.6-103.6 μM) were significantly lower than WT (4.28 mM and 178 μM, respectively; P<0.01).The RYR1 variant p.Pro2366Arg was classified as pathogenic or likely pathogenic, whereas p.Ile2358Thr, p.Asp2431His and p.Arg2454Gly remained as variants of uncertain significance but as likely pathogenic, and p.Asp2431Glu and p.Glu2545Asp remained variants of uncertain significance.Copyright © 2026 British Journal of Anaesthesia. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This modeling study explains the intracellular Ca2+ release that controls contraction of skeletal muscles of mammals as emerging from a statistical ensemble of couplons. Couplons are constituted by identical sarcoplasmic reticulum RyR1 channels, arranged in native "checkerboard" double-row pattern, with alternate channels (the V class) in physical contact with CaV1.1 tetrads resident in the electrically excitable T-tubular membrane. Activation starts from these and propagates allosterically to the RyRs devoid of CaV contacts (the C class). Both activations are imposed by changes in free energy of channel states, derived from electrical work on the CaV mobile charges. The allosteric connections, resulting in reciprocal energy changes, are interlaced, so that the couplon becomes a highly reactive continuum where allosteric effects may propagate from end to end. A robust inactivation of C channels maintains this highly excitable device under graded voltage control. The model reproduces within the variance of experimental observations the cell level records of Ca2+ flux, including voltage dependence and kinetics, under multiple combinations of voltage clamp pulses, and accounts for the conditioning effects known as "quantal release" and "deterministic inactivation." The simulations, which describe individual channel evolutions as stochastic Markov chains, are also consistent with the Ca2+ events recorded at the subcellular microdomain level as well as observations of coupled gating in bilayers. No explicit Ca2+ roles on activation or inactivation are required. The good model-vs.-experiment match enables inferences on mechanisms, their specializations in muscle tissues, and their variations in different taxa. It also encourages modular incorporation into more comprehensive models of cellular function.© 2026 Rios and Pizarro.
Osteoporosis and osteosarcoma impose a substantial and rising global health burden, yet their transcriptomic landscapes have not been systematically compared. We performed a multiomics characterization integrating bulk transcriptomics, coexpression network analysis, immune deconvolution, single-cell RNA sequencing, and diagnostic classifier construction.Bulk transcriptomic profiling was performed using GSE56815 (circulating blood monocytes, n = 80; 40 low-BMD/40 high-BMD) and the TARGET-OS database (n = 88 osteosarcoma tumor samples; DNA methylation n = 86; copy number n = 81). Differential expression was assessed by Welch's t-test with Benjamini-Hochberg correction. Coexpression modules were identified by hierarchical clustering of the Top 2000 most variable probes with dynamic tree cutting. A logistic regression classifier was constructed from the Top 20 differentially expressed probes using fivefold-stratified cross-validation. Single-cell RNA sequencing of an osteosarcoma tumor specimen (GEO accession GSM9030790) was processed with SVD-based dimensionality reduction and K-means clustering (k = 8; n = 3658 cells passing QC). In vitro validation was conducted by qRT-PCR in MC3T3-E1 osteoblast precursor cells and RAW264.7 osteoclast precursor cells.Differential expression analysis identified 4347 probe sets at nominal p < 0.05, of which 604 remained significant after Benjamini-Hochberg correction. Eight coexpression modules were identified; module M0 showed a weak positive association with low-BMD status (r = 0.184), which did not reach statistical significance. Six hub genes-SP7/Osterix, RUNX2, BMP2, WNT5A, DKK1, and SOST-were examined by qRT-PCR: SP7, RUNX2, BMP2, and WNT5A showed significant downregulation (p < 0.01), whereas DKK1 showed significant upregulation (p < 0.01) and SOST showed a nonsignificant trend toward upregulation under osteoporosis-simulating conditions. The diagnostic classifier achieved a moderate AUC of 0.693 (fivefold CV range: 0.48-0.91), with the lower bound falling below the random classifier baseline (AUC = 0.5), indicating limited discriminative capacity in some data partitions. scRNA-seq resolved eight transcriptionally distinct cell clusters in the osteosarcoma specimen (3658 cells passing QC).This integrative multiomics study provides a comprehensive transcriptomic comparison of osteoporosis and osteosarcoma, identifies BMD-associated coexpression modules with experimentally validated hub genes, and establishes a reusable analytical framework for biomarker discovery in metabolic and malignant bone disease. However, the weak module-trait correlations, subthreshold classifier performance in some cross-validation folds, and the use of circulating blood monocytes to study bone-specific gene expression warrant cautious interpretation of the findings.Copyright © 2026 Dongming Fu et al. International Journal of Genomics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
This study investigated the heterogeneity and molecular alterations of trabecular meshwork (TM) in glaucomatous non-human primates, aiming to identify potential pathogenic genes and signaling pathways involved in glaucoma.TM tissues were analyzed using 10x Genomics single-cell RNA sequencing on the Illumina platform. After quality control, dimensionality reduction and clustering were performed. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified using Seurat and DESeq2. Functional enrichment analyses were conducted via Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG). Protein expression was assessed by Western blotting, mRNA levels by RT-PCR, protein localization and fluorescence intensity by immunofluorescence, and mitochondrial morphology by transmission electron microscopy.We classified the outflow tissue into 10 cell subtypes, and TM cells were further classified into three subtypes: Beam A, Beam B, and JCT. Beam A cells exhibited the most significant proportional changes, and GO analysis indicated their strong association with extracellular matrix regulation. MGP emerged as the most significantly upregulated gene in both the overall TM population and the Beam A subcluster. Dexamethasone (DEX) treatment induced MGP expression in human primary TM cells, while MGP knockdown partially restored Wnt/β-catenin signaling, decreased Wnt5a levels, and reduced ECM deposition.This study generated a transcriptional atlas of TM in glaucoma. MGP may contribute to TM dysfunction via the Wnt/β-catenin-Wnt5a-ECM signaling pathway, offering novel insights into potential therapeutic targets for glaucoma intervention.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Bone remodeling depends on coordinated signaling between bone-resorbing osteoclasts and bone-forming osteoblasts through locally secreted coupling factors. Disruption of this balance leads to decreased bone mass, resulting in conditions such as osteoporosis. Osteoclast-derived anabolic factors, or clastokines, have emerged as attractive therapeutic candidates with the potential of selectively enhancing bone formation without suppressing resorption. Osteoblast-derived WNT5A is an established coupling factor promoting osteoclastogenesis; however, osteoclast-derived WNT5A specific contribution to bone homeostasis and the downstream mechanism by which it acts on osteoblasts remains undefined.This study aimed to address this gap using a myeloid-specific conditional knockout mouse that selectively targets osteoclast-derived WNT5A while leaving osteoblast-derived WNT5A intact. Wnt5a was conditionally deleted in osteoclast precursors and their progeny using LysM-Cre; Wnt5aF/F mice and both male and female knockout mice were characterized by μCT, histomorphometry, serum bone turnover markers, transcriptomic profiling of osteoblast-enriched cells, and in vitro focal adhesion and migration assays.Both male and female knockout mice displayed significantly reduced trabecular volume compared with controls. This low bone mass phenotype was driven by decreased osteoblast number and activity, with no significant changes in osteoclast number or resorptive function. Transcriptomic profiling of osteoblast-enriched cells revealed dysregulation of genes involved in focal adhesion, integrin binding, and cell communication, alongside upregulation of stress-related gene networks. Histological and functional analyses demonstrated that loss of osteoclast-derived WNT5A impaired extracellular matrix maturation and disrupted osteoblast focal adhesion assembly and migration.Together, our study establishes osteoclast-derived WNT5A as a clastokine that promotes bone formation in vivo by regulating osteoblast migration and adhesion dynamics. These findings establish a mechanistic link between osteoclast secretory activity and osteoblast function and highlight the context-dependent and cell-of-origin specific roles of WNT5A in skeletal homeostasis.Copyright © 2026 Daponte, Gavva, Kapfhamer, Roberts, Henke and Drissi.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42552162
Gastric cancer (GC) derives limited benefit from immune checkpoint blockade (ICB), in part due to stromal-mediated immune suppression. To investigate the underlying mechanisms, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing on 14 GC specimens from patients treated with neoadjuvant ICB. We identified a distinct subset of TRPA1+ cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) maintained by tumor-derived midkine (MDK) through LEF1-dependent transcription under ICB pressure. These TRPA1+ CAFs drive immunosuppression by secreting WNT5A, which polarizes SPP1+ macrophages and subsequently promotes the accumulation of CD25 + FOXP3+ regulatory T cells (Tregs) in the tumor microenvironment. Disrupting this stromal-myeloid-lymphoid axis via WNT5A inhibition or SPP1+ macrophage depletion reduced Treg infiltration and enhanced the antitumor efficacy of anti-PD-L1 therapy in vivo. Our study unveils an MDK-TRPA1 + CAF-mediated mechanism of ICB resistance in GC and highlights the WNT5A-SPP1+ macrophage pathway as a promising target to overcome immunotherapy resistance.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are natural mediators of intercellular communication through the transfer of cytoplasmic material from donor to recipient cells. The molecular mechanisms governing EV uptake and cargo delivery in recipient cells remain largely elusive. To address this gap, we performed a genetic screening interrogating 300 genes of the dynamic surfaceome for their involvement in EV uptake. Activators found in the screening establish a previously unknown connection between EV uptake and Wnt pathways. We then observed that, unlike WNT-naïve EVs that are primarily trafficked to lysosomes in recipient cells, WNT5A-bearing EVs linger in early endocytic structures. This rerouting is dependent on the expression of RYK, an established co-receptor for WNT5A. Our results depict a mechanism underlying EV functional heterogeneity as well as reveal a potential regulation system for noncanonical WNT signaling.
This study investigated the preliminary role of γ-oryzanol (γ-O) against breast cancer through computational and in vitro analyses. Reference protein set (RPS) and functional enrichment set (FES) proteins were identified and subjected to network pharmacology. Pharmacogenomics analysis assessed expression profiles and survival associations. Molecular docking of γ-O with PIK3CA, AKT1, AKR1C3, ESR1, and MAPK1 was performed, followed by molecular dynamics (MD) simulation of the γ-O-PIK3CA complex. Brine shrimp lethality assay (BSLA) evaluated the effect of γ-O on nauplii survival and percentage lethality. Allium cepa root tip assay (ACARTA) assessed the effect of γ-O in number and length of roots. Cell viability assay evaluated MCF-7 cell viability after γ-O treatment. Target validation and network pharmacology suggested the relevance of RPS and FES with cancer-associated pathways. Pharmacogenomics analysis highlighted FES overexpression with reduced survival associations and cancer progression. Molecular docking predicted interaction of γ-O with PIK3CA (- 9.1 kcal/mol), AKT1 (- 7.2 kcal/mol), AKR1C3 (- 12.3 kcal/mol), ESR1 (- 8.3 kcal/mol), and MAPK1 (- 8.9 kcal/mol). MD simulation indicated the stability of γ-O-PIK3CA complex. γ-O treatment significantly (P-value < 0.05) reduced nauplii survival and increased percentage lethality. The number and length of roots reduced significantly (P-value < 0.05) in γ-O-treated roots. γ-O produced a significant (P-value < 0.05) concentration-dependent reduction in cell viability (half-maximal inhibitory concentration = 352.57 ± 48.51 µg/mL). BSLA, ACRTA, and cell viability assay demonstrated preliminary cytotoxic, anti-mitotic, and anti-proliferative effects of γ-O, aligned with computational target and interaction analyses. Further studies are required to validate its mechanistic relevance against breast cancer.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
ObjectiveTo investigate whether naringin enhances the chemosensitivity of nasopharyngeal carcinoma-derived CNE2 cells to paclitaxel and identify potential molecular mediators.MethodsCNE2 cells were treated with naringin alone or in combination with paclitaxel, cisplatin, or 5-fluorouracil. Cell viability, proliferation, and migration were assessed using cell counting kit-8 and Transwell assays. Transcriptomic profiling followed by bioinformatic analysis of Gene Expression Omnibus datasets (GSE53819, GSE12452, and GSE102349) was performed to identify nasopharyngeal carcinoma prognosis-related genes. AKR1C3 overexpression was established via lentiviral transduction, and pharmacological inhibition was performed using ASP9521. mRNA and protein expression were validated using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blot analysis.ResultsNaringin (160 μM) demonstrated a trend toward reducing the half-maximal inhibitory concentration of paclitaxel from 10.52 to 8.04 nM; however, it did not significantly alter sensitivity to cisplatin or 5-fluorouracil. Combined treatment with 2 nM paclitaxel and 160 μM naringin synergistically suppressed CNE2 proliferation and migration compared with that using either agent alone (p < 0.05). Bioinformatic analysis revealed that high AKR1C3 expression was correlated with improved survival in patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma (p < 0.05), whereas high PAIP1, PRKDC, PTPRR, and COL12A1 expressions were correlated with poorer outcomes. Reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction confirmed that both naringin and paclitaxel upregulated AKR1C3 mRNA, with the combination producing the strongest effect. Gain-of-function studies demonstrated that AKR1C3 overexpression significantly enhanced paclitaxel sensitivity, with half-maximal inhibitory concentration values decreasing from 13.63 to 6.994 nM in CNE2 cells and from 8.534 to 4.668 nM in CNE1 cells. Furthermore, the specific AKR1C3 inhibitor, ASP9521, significantly attenuated the synergistic anti-proliferative and anti-migratory effects of paclitaxel + naringin in CNE2 cells, confirming that naringin enhances chemosensitivity to paclitaxel by upregulating AKR1C3 expression.ConclusionsNaringin sensitizes CNE2 cells to paclitaxel, potentially via AKR1C3 upregulation. This flavonoid may represent a low-toxicity adjunct to enhance the efficacy of paclitaxel in nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
BackgroundIncreasing evidence shows that, compared with the general population, the prevalence of coronavirus disease 2019 is significantly higher in patients with psoriasis treated with immunosuppressive therapy. However, the underlying mechanisms have not yet been clarified.Materials and methodsThe aim of this study was to further investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying these two diseases. Gene expression profiles for coronavirus disease 2019 and psoriasis were downloaded from the gene expression omnibus database (GSE150316 and GSE30999). After identifying the common differentially expressed genes between coronavirus disease 2019 and psoriasis, functional annotation, protein-protein interaction network analysis, module construction, and hub gene identification were performed. Finally, transcription factor-gene regulatory and transcription factor-miRNA regulatory networks of the hub genes were constructed.ResultsA total of 306 common differentially expressed genes, including 168 upregulated genes and 138 downregulated genes, were identified and used for subsequent analysis. According to Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analysis, the Rap1 signaling pathway, axon guidance, and focal adhesion contribute to the occurrence and development of coronavirus disease 2019 and psoriasis. Finally, five hub genes, namely EGF, IL1B, SERPINA1, CD8A, and WNT5A, were identified using the CytoHubba plug-in. Among them, three hub genes (EGF, SERPINA1, and CD8A) showed good diagnostic marker value for coronavirus disease 2019 and psoriasis.ConclusionOur findings suggest that coronavirus disease 2019 and psoriasis share common molecular mechanisms that are driven by several specific hub genes. This study provides new insights into the relationship between coronavirus disease 2019 and psoriasis.
Zearalenone is a common mycotoxin that impairs reproductive function, particularly by damaging ovarian granulosa cells. This study investigated the protective effect and underlying mechanism of scutellarin against zearalenone-induced injury in porcine ovarian granulosa cells. Cells were isolated and identified by follicle-stimulating hormone receptor immunofluorescence. Cell viability, cell-cycle distribution, and related molecular changes were evaluated using the MTT assay, flow cytometry, qRT-PCR, and Western blot. Scutellarin showed no obvious cytotoxicity within the tested range and attenuated the zearalenone-induced reduction in cell viability. Flow cytometry analysis demonstrated that scutellarin alleviated zearalenone-induced cell-cycle disturbance. At the molecular level, scutellarin upregulated the expression of cell-cycle-related factors, including CDK1, CDK2, CDK4, and PCNA, and increased the expression of Wnt/β-catenin signaling-related proteins, including WNT5A, β-catenin, c-MYC, and CCND1. WNT5A knockdown further indicated that scutellarin-mediated regulation of PCNA, CDK1, and CDK4 is WNT5A-dependent, whereas its effect on CDK2 may involve a WNT5A-independent mechanism. These findings indicate that scutellarin alleviates zearalenone-induced granulosa cell injury partly through WNT5A-associated modulation of cell-cycle-related proteins, providing mechanistic insights for its protective effects.
We report on an autologous hematopoietic progenitor cell collection via apheresis (HPC(A)) with adequate CD34+ pre-count and unexpectedly low collection efficiency resulting in a failed HPC(A) collection. The collection bag contained almost no buffy coat and the plasma was orange. We assess both collection and patient factors that may have contributed to this finding.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
NRXN1 (2p16.3) is essential for synaptic function and has been implicated in autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and other neurodevelopmental disorders. However, the phenotypic features associated with NRXN1 copy number variants remains incompletely characterised, which complicates risk assessment in genetic counselling. This case series describes five children, who were evaluated at the Genetics and Developmental Pediatrics Clinic of a tertiary care hospital in Muscat, Oman, from 2011 to 2023, with rare NRXN1 deletions (57-150 kb). All met DSM-5 criteria for ASD and had speech and language delays with cognitive impairment. Consanguinity was reported in three of the families and two had a family history of ASD. Microcephaly was present in four children and one showed facial dysmorphism. Generalised tonic-clonic seizures were present in one child and one child had comorbid attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. These findings illustrate clinical heterogeneity among children with NRXN1 deletions and supports the need for larger studies to better define genotype-phenotype relationships.© The Author(s) 2026.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511584 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510017 is a review article
With the widespread application of microwave technology in communication and medical fields, concerns regarding its biosafety, particularly the effects on the central nervous system, have increased. The brain is considered a sensitive target organ for microwave radiation; however, the molecular mechanisms underlying microwave-induced cognitive impairment remain unclear. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of 4.3 GHz microwave radiation at different power densities on spatial learning and memory in mice, and to identify key molecular changes in the hippocampus associated with cognitive impairment. Mice (male, C57BL/6N) were exposed to 4.3 GHz microwave radiation at power densities of 10 or 30 mW/cm2 for 30 min. Spatial learning and memory abilities were assessed using the Morris water maze (MWM). The hippocampal structure was assessed by HE staining at multiple time points following microwave exposure. Integrated RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) and 4D-data-independent acquisition (4D-DIA) analyses of the hippocampus were performed at 6 h after microwave exposure, and differentially expressed molecules were selected and validated by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) and parallel reaction monitoring (PRM). The 4.3 GHz microwave exposure significantly prolonged escape latency in the MWM, indicating impaired spatial learning or navigation ability. Histological examination revealed transient neuronal damage in the hippocampal CA1 and CA3 regions. Multi-omics analysis and subsequent validation revealed molecular alterations. Following microwave radiation, the expression of synaptic plasticity-related genes Arc and Ebf3 was significantly upregulated. At the protein level, significant downregulation was observed for Protein sidekick-2 and IQGAP1, while WNK3 was significantly upregulated. In summary, 4.3 GHz microwave exposure impaired spatial learning or navigation ability, accompanied by structural damage in the hippocampus and molecular alterations in synaptic plasticity-related pathways. Arc, Ebf3, Protein sidekick-2, WNK3, and IQGAP1 might serve as candidate molecules for understanding and mitigating microwave-induced cognitive deficits.
Identify genetic variants associated with amblyopia in African American (AFR) and Admixed American (AMR) ancestry groups, expanding upon a previous studies conducted in European ancestry.Retrospective ancestry-stratified genome-wide association study (GWAS) and gene-level rare variant association study (RVAS).Participants in the All of Us Research Program from AFR and AMR ancestry groups with whole genome sequencing available. Cases and controls were distinguished based on presence of ICD-9/10/SNOMED diagnosis codes for amblyopia in electronic health records. This yielded ancestry-stratified subsets of 269 cases and 71,585 controls of AMR ancestry and 366 cases and 79,460 controls of AFR ancestry.Stratified logistic regression models adjusted for age, sex, and the top 10 principal components of genomic ancestry. GWAS was limited to common variants (mean allele frequency or MAF > 1%) and RVAS was limited to rare variants with coding sequence-altering effects (MAF < 1%, exonic only, excluded synonymous variants) aggregated at the gene level using the SKAT algorithm. Downstream analyses of the significant variants were performed using KEGG and GO pathway analysis and STRING database queries for protein-protein interactions and gene-gene interactions.Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were determined to have genome-wide significance if p < 5e-8 in the GWAS and genes were determined to have significant association with amblyopia in the RVAS if p < 8.0 x 10-4.In the AMR GWAS, 245 unique SNPs mapping to 97 distinct loci were identified, notably within neurodevelopmental and axonal guidance genes, including ROBO1, SEMA4B, PTPRD, NRXN1, and CAMK2D. The AFR GWAS identified 11 significant variants corresponding to 6 loci mapping primarily to long-noncoding RNAs and pseudogenes. The AMR RVAS identified 15 genes, including axonal transport genes (KIF1B, KIF7) and growth factor signaling genes (EGF, ERBIN, and AKAP17A). The AFR RVAS identified a single gene, DLG2, which encodes the postsynaptic protein PSD-93, which promotes the closure of the sensitive period of neuroplasticity for vision in early childhood.Genetic risk architectures for amblyopia differ across ancestries but fundamentally converge on neurodevelopmental signaling, cortical synapse assembly, and sensitive period plasticity rather than ocular structural dynamics.Copyright © 2026 American Academy of Ophthalmology, Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a highly prevalent, trauma-induced psychiatric condition characterized by persistent cognitive-affective dysfunction. However, the pathogenesis of PTSD is not yet well understood. MicroRNA-124-3p (miR-124) plays an important role in neuroprotective function in various neurological disorders, and our previous study confirmed that hippocampal miR-124 expression is decreased in rats subjected to single-prolonged stress (SPS). In the present study, we found that miR-124 ameliorates spatial memory deficits in SPS rats. IQGAP1, which can promote neuronal structural remodeling to form functional neural networks, was upregulated in the hippocampus of SPS rats and was identified as a downstream target of miR-124, as confirmed by luciferase reporter assays. Furthermore, we demonstrated that miR-124 not only upregulated the expression of actin-binding proteins (ABPs), including drebrin1 and phosphorylated cofilin (p-cofilin), but also significantly reduced hippocampal neuronal apoptosis in SPS-exposed rats. Notably, IQGAP1 inhibition elevates drebrin1 expression and reduces neuronal apoptosis. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that miR-124 participates in the pathophysiological progression of PTSD by regulating ABP expression and neuronal apoptosis via targeting IQGAP1.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Partial hepatectomy (PH) triggers acute liver insufficiency and a tightly-orchestrated regenerative program. Here we show that artesunate (ART) markedly accelerates liver mass restoration in mice subjected to PH. ART elevated the liver index, normalized serum total protein and albumin, and curbed ALT/AST leakage. Histologically, ART attenuated hepatocellular necrosis and reduced lesion scores in a dose-dependent manner. Mechanistically, ART amplified Ki67-positive hepatocytes, suppressed apoptosis, and shifted cell-cycle distribution from G1 arrest toward G2/M progression. These regenerative effects were associated with enhanced mitophagy-related changes, as evidenced by increased TOM20/LC3B co-localization, elevated LC3-II/I ratio, increased PINK1 and Parkin expression, and reduced p62 accumulation. A chloroquine-based lysosomal inhibition assay further supported that ART enhanced mitophagy-associated flux. Docking analysis suggested a potential interaction between ART and AMPKα1/2, with docking energies of - 6.41 and - 6.45 kcal mol- 1 for PRKAA1 and PRKAA2, respectively. ART increased p-AMPKα1/2 and suppressed mTOR signaling, as further supported by reduced p-S6 expression. Pharmacological inhibition of AMPK with Compound C attenuated ART-induced PINK1/Parkin-associated mitophagy-related signaling, suppressed ART-enhanced hepatocyte proliferation, increased apoptosis, and partially reversed the ART-mediated reduction in p-S6 expression. Collectively, these findings suggest that ART promotes post-PH liver regeneration by activating AMPKα1/2-associated signaling and enhancing mitophagy-associated flux, positioning ART as a potential adjunct strategy for liver regeneration after hepatectomy.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Microarray and Next Generation Sequencing studies offer insight into gene regulation in Parkinson's disease (PD). However, analysing vast numbers of genes can make the interpretation of data difficult when considering the platforms and techniques used across different studies. In this study, transcript expression, restricted to genes related to G-protein coupled receptors, activating agonists, agonist precursors, synthesis enzymes and transduction processes, as well as stress-related chaperones and solute carriers, was assessed across nine microarray platforms and two RNAseq studies of the substantia nigra (nigral volume). Changes in gene expression associated with PD were assessed by differential expression analysis while RNAseq studies were also used to calculate transcript per million values for each of the genes within the nigral volume. This analysis showed extensive changes in nigral volume signalling for several robustly expressed signal-related transcripts including tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), WNT signalling components (SFRP1, RSPO2 and DKK3), Kallikrein Related Peptidase 6 (KLK6), neurexins (NRXN1, NRXN3), prostaglandin synthases (PTGES2, PTGES3) and fractalkine (CX3CL1). The nigral volume signalling ligand data was then cross-referenced to the most abundant G-protein coupled receptor and signal transduction transcripts in the pigmented neurons using two RNAseq and two microarray studies. There were 32 significant changes in G-protein coupled receptor and associated signalling genes in pigmented neurons from PD tissue. Of these, 30 genes were upregulated. Analysis of the transcription factors likely regulating the 30 upregulated genes indicates a stimulation of cell stress pathways, particularly the JNK-MAP kinase pathway. Following this pathway back to changes in nigral signalling transcripts indicates that deficits in at least two autocrine/paracrine signalling systems; dopamine, via Gαo-coupled dopamine D2 receptors and Dickkopf-3 (DKK3) appear likely to contribute to pigmented neuron stress in PD.Copyright: © 2026 John M. Haynes. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Therapy resistance in prostate cancer arises from coordinated remodeling of malignant and stromal compartments, yet the mechanisms orchestrating this ecosystem adaptation remain elusive. Here, single-cell RNA sequencing of longitudinal biopsies obtained before and after androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT) delineated a therapy-induced stromal lineage bifurcation toward APOD+ and DPT+ fibroblast states. DPT+ fibroblasts activated a C3-ITGAX/ITGB2 complement signaling axis targeting macrophages, coinciding with suppression of M1 inflammatory programs, amplification of immune-checkpoint signaling, and a shift of CD8+ T cells from cytotoxic to exhausted phenotypes. Concomitantly, we identified pre-existing malignant epithelial subpopulations characterized by reduced AR/KLK3 activity and heightened chromosomal instability that preferentially persisted following therapy. Integrative multi-omic analyses nominated TSPAN1 as a functional effector of castrate resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) and NRXN1 as a regulator of neuroendocrine plasticity through calcium-dependent signaling programs. Genetic silencing of either gene suppressed proliferation, clonogenicity, migration, and tumor growth, while attenuating neuroendocrine features in vitro and in vivo. Spatial mapping, functional perturbation, and stromal-epithelial co-culture experiments mechanistically established a therapy-induced DPT+ fibroblast-complement circuit that enforced immune evasion and channels epithelial trajectories toward CRPC or neuroendocrine prostate cancer. Collectively, these findings defined the DPT+-complement-macrophage axis as an actionable vulnerability and position TSPAN1 and NRXN1 as therapeutic entry points to disrupt ADT-driven tumor ecosystem remodeling in prostate cancer.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Lactiplantibacillus plantarum (L. plantarum) is a well-characterized probiotic with a long history of safe application, exhibiting prominent potential in improving skeletal muscle function. As the most prevalent and plentiful mRNA modification in eukaryotes, extensive research has highlighted the non-negligible role of N6-methyladenosine (m6A) in regulating various aspects of skeletal muscle biology. However, the underlying mechanisms through which L. plantarum-derived signals regulate host myogenic programs, as well as whether m6A modification is involved in this process, remain unclear.To explore the microbe-host regulatory axis through which L. plantarum promotes skeletal muscle regeneration and whether m6A modification is involved in this process.The cardiotoxin-induced muscle injury mouse model was constructed to investigate the impact of L. plantarum WY2401 on skeletal muscle regeneration. Untargeted metabolomics analysis was used to screen out L. plantarum WY2401-derived key metabolite. The changes in m6A modification were determined using dot blot and MeRIP-qPCR.We identified L. plantarum WY2401 as a pro-myogenic probiotic that promotes skeletal muscle regeneration. Specifically, L. plantarum WY2401 strongly alters circulating metabolomic profiles, particularly elevating the production of microbiota-derived riboflavin. Upregulated riboflavin is transported to skeletal muscle through the bloodstream, where it modulates the expression of the m6A methyltransferase METTL3 in a stage-dependent manner during myogenesis. This modulation promotes myoblast proliferation by enhancing the stability of Cdk2 and Ccnd1 mRNAs through the METTL3-m6A-YTHDF1 pathway. It also facilitates myoblast differentiation by increasing Mef2a mRNA stability through the METTL3-m6A-YTHDF2 pathway.Our findings reveal a novel microbe-host regulatory axis through which L. plantarum WY2401 promotes skeletal muscle regeneration via stage-specific epigenetic modulation of myogenesis. This work highlights the potential of L. plantarum as a functional probiotic supplement for improving skeletal muscle development and provides new insights into probiotic-mediated regulation of muscle regeneration.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) exhibits heterogeneous responses to immune checkpoint blockade, highlighting the need to define tumor-intrinsic mechanisms driving resistance to PD-L1 inhibition. Here, we identified GTP-binding protein overexpressed in skeletal muscle (GEM) as a tumor cell-intrinsic regulator associated with poor response to anti-PD-L1 therapy in ESCC. GEM expression in tumor cells drove tumor-associated macrophage (TAM)-mediated immunosuppression, leading to reduced CD8⁺ T cell infiltration and impaired cytotoxic function. Mechanistically, GEM induced SERPINE1 expression that was secreted and acted on macrophage LRP1 to drive alternative activation and suppress antitumor immunity. GEM enhanced SERPINE1 expression through a MKK3-RACK1-p38-MEF2A cascade. GEM signaling was reinforced by a metabolically coupled feedback mechanism. Macrophages exposed to GEM-high tumor cells promoted tumor cell glycolysis and lactate production, which drove AARS1-dependent lactylation of GEM and strengthened its interaction with RACK1 to amplify downstream signaling. Disruption of the SERPINE1-LRP1 axis restored CD8⁺ T cell activity and enhanced response to PD-L1 blockade in vivo. Pharmacological perturbation of GEM-dependent signaling remodeled the tumor immune microenvironment and improved responses to PD-L1 blockade. Together, these findings define a GEM-SERPINE1-LRP1 signaling axis that drives macrophage-mediated immune suppression and suggest that targeting this pathway may enhance the efficacy of PD-L1 blockade in ESCC.
Periodontitis is a long-term inflammatory disease of the gums that damages the tissues and bone supporting the teeth. Recent studies suggest that changes in cellular metabolism may influence immune responses during chronic inflammation; however, the contribution of fumarate-associated transcriptional programs to periodontitis remains unclear. In this study, we integrated bulk transcriptomic data from human periodontal tissues with single-cell RNA sequencing data to identify fumarate-associated genes and cell clusters associated with periodontitis. Our analyses revealed a fumarate-associated immune regulatory signature that was enriched in periodontitis. Three genes, C3, CXCR4, and MEF2C, were consistently increased in diseased tissues and showed similar expression trends in a ligature-induced mouse model of periodontitis. These genes showed transcript-level diagnostic potential and were predominantly expressed in immune cells, including myeloid cells and neutrophils, as well as stromal cells. In addition, computational drug screening and molecular docking highlighted carbenoxolone and a CXCR4 antagonist (USL311) as potential candidates for future study. Overall, this study provides an integrative view of fumarate-associated immunometabolic alterations in periodontitis and identifies candidate transcriptomic markers and therapeutic hypotheses that warrant further experimental validation.Copyright: © 2026 Liu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Excessive NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome activity is an important driver of inflammatory tissue damage in acute lung injury (ALI), yet effective targeted therapies remain lacking. Neferine, a natural bisbenzylisoquinoline alkaloid extracted primarily from the mature seed embryo of Nelumbo nucifera, has shown anti-inflammatory potential, but its role in inflammasome regulation during ALI is still not well understood.This study was designed to examine whether neferine could attenuate lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced ALI through modulation of NLRP3 inflammasome signaling and to explore the mechanism involved.We carried out a preclinical investigation using an LPS-triggered mouse model of ALI together with a macrophage pyroptosis model induced by LPS+nigericin (Nig). Both preventive administration and delayed post-challenge treatment with neferine were evaluated in vivo. To define pathway dependence, we combined pharmacologic AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) inhibition, Prkaa1 deficiency, and blockade of autophagic flux.Neferine was examined in LPS-treated mice and in macrophages exposed to LPS plus Nig. Lung pathology, inflammatory injury, and pyroptosis-related changes were assessed. Additional experiments focused on AMPK signaling, autophagic flux, and NLRP3 degradation.Neferine attenuated inflammatory lung injury in mice, accompanied by reduced inflammatory cytokine production and decreased macrophage pyroptosis. Mechanistic analyses showed that neferine increased AMPK phosphorylation and downstream unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1 (ULK1) signaling, enhanced autophagic flux, and promoted K63-linked ubiquitination of NLRP3. These changes favored trafficking of NLRP3 into autophagic compartments and its subsequent lysosomal degradation, thereby limiting inflammasome activity. Pharmacological inhibition of AMPK signaling and genetic loss of Prkaa1 weakened the effects of neferine on ULK1-related autophagy and pyroptosis-associated readouts, supporting a functional contribution of AMPKα1 signaling to this process. Notably, neferine also remained effective when given after LPS exposure, reducing inflammatory injury and pyroptosis-associated readouts in the therapeutic setting.These findings indicate that neferine alleviates inflammasome-related lung injury at least partly through AMPKα1-dependent autophagy, accompanied by increased ULK1 phosphorylation and subsequent autophagy-lysosomal clearance of NLRP3.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510803 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510461 is a review article
FUS is an RNA-binding protein mutated in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a neurodegenerative disease characterized by progressive muscle weakness. We show in this work that a heterozygous knock-in mutation in the mouse Fus gene leads to cell-autonomous ultrastructural defects in skeletal muscle, with disruption of sarcomeres and mitochondria. Studies in mouse and Drosophila models demonstrate an evolutionarily conserved cell-autonomous function of FUS in muscle development. Mechanistically, FUS is required for the transcription of MEF2 target genes, binds to the promoter of genes bound by ETS transcription factors, in particular ETV5, and co-activates the transcription of MEF2-dependent genes with ETV5. FUS phase-separates with ETV5 and MEF2A, and stimulation of MEF2-dependent transcription by FUS is dependent upon its phase separation properties. Finally, Etv5 haploinsufficiency exacerbates muscle weakness and atrophy in Fus knock-in mice. Our findings establish a key role for FUS in skeletal muscle differentiation through its phase separation-dependent recruitment of ETV5 and MEF2, defining a novel pathway compromised in FUS-ALS.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42484215
The circadian clock plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of various inflammatory and autoimmune diseases, including ulcerative colitis (UC). Deletion of the core transcription factor BMAL1 exacerbated the severity of colitis. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms of BMAL1 in UC remain unclear. We found that BMAL1 was downregulated in UC tissues and in LPS-induced MODE-K cells, whereas CXCL1 was highly expressed. Overexpression of BMAL1 reduced LPS-induced pyroptosis in MODE-K cells and restoring the expression of ZO-1, Claudin-1, and Occludin, thereby improving intestinal epithelial barrier function. Mechanistically, BMAL1 can negatively regulate the CXCL1 expression by inhibiting the activity of its promoter. Additionally, proteomics analysis identified MEF2A as a downstream protein of BMAL1. The protective effect of BMAL1 on MODE-K cells was achieved through direct negative regulation of CXCL1 or indirect negative regulation of MEF2A expression. Thus, BMAL1 plays a protective role in maintaining the integrity of the intestinal epithelial barrier and represents a potential therapeutic target for UC treatment.Copyright © 2026 Xin Zhou et al. Mediators of Inflammation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42562792
Kidney stone disease (KSD) is multifactorial, and the genetic basis is poorly understood among the East Asian population. This study aims to elucidate comprehensive genetic factors associated with KSD.We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) on Taiwanese Han Chinese individuals from the Taiwan Biobank to investigate genetic predispositions to KSD. A total of 108,483 participants were included, of whom 7,635 reported having KSD. A phenome-wide association study (PheWAS) leveraging the National Health Insurance Research Database was used to verify GWAS findings and explore disease associations. We also assessed individual genetic risk for KSD using a polygenic risk score (PRS).Our analysis identified significant associations with KSD at single-nucleotide polymorphisms rs1481012 (odds ratio = 1.13, p = 5.53 × 10-11) and rs12872074 (odds ratio = 1.16, p = 4.77 × 10-17) on chromosomes 4 and 13, respectively. We pinpointed ABCG2, DGKH, and a novel locus PKD2. Biological pathways, including protein dimerization and CD4+ T-cell regulation, were identified in gene-set analysis. PheWAS confirmed the association of these lead variants with calculus of kidney and various phenotypes. PRS reached an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.97 on the discovery sample.This comprehensive study highlights the significant genetic contributors to KSD in an East Asian population. Our findings underscore the potential of using a national health database to validate our analyses and reveal novel disease correlations, which supported immune dysregulation in disease pathogenesis. PRS highlights the contribution of genetic variants to KSD risk and suggests potential for future clinical application, although validation in independent populations will be required to determine its predictive utility.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Fibrotic remodeling of extracellular matrix is a central driver of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) progression since early stages of the disease. Unfortunately, it cannot be assessed with currently available methodologies before irreversible structural and functional decline, creating a diagnostic blind spot that hinders accurate early risk stratification and management. Here, we report the development of Gd-hProCA32.Collagen, a collagen -targeted protein MRI contrast agent that enables precision molecular MRI (pMRI) of early fibrosis by directly imaging collagen type I deposition in vivo before conventional laboratory and imaging methods detect changes in kidneys and liver of Pkhd 1 PCK/PCK (PCK) rats and Pkd2 mutant mice. Gd-hProCA32.Collagen, used at 10-fold lower dose, outperformed the widely clinically used agent gadobutrol (Gadovist), detecting approximately 2.8-fold greater total renal cyst volume (∼8,500 vs ∼3,000 mm³, p<0.0001) and 1.5-fold higher total cyst count (∼245 vs ∼160, p<0.0001), with superior T1W and T2W kidney AUC (p<0.01 and p<0.001) and preferential sensitivity to small and medium cysts. Signal enhancement in kidneys and liver correlated strongly with histological collagen burden quantified by Sirius red staining, whereas Gadovist showed no meaningful correlation. Gd-hProCA32.Collagen also enabled in vivo visualization of previously undetectable changes resembling radial striations at sites of microcyst cluster-adjacent microfibrosis and sustained delayed MRI enhancement due to specific collagen binding. These results reveal a previously inaccessible subclinical fibrotic phase of cystic kidney and liver disease and establish collagen-targeted pMRI as a strategy for early noninvasive detection and spatial mapping of multi-organ extracellular matrix remodeling when conventional biomarkers remain non-discriminating.We report a first-in-class collagen-targeted MRI contrast agent with Precision molecular MRI that noninvasively reveals a previously inaccessible subclinical fibrotic phase of polycystic kidney disease across kidney and liver, overcoming limitations of current diagnostic methodology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42538417 is a review article
Urinary proteomic profiling (UPP) provides insights in disease mechanisms and origin of symptoms. Using UPP, this study aimed at deepening insight in the biology of exercise tolerance.In the HOMAGE trial, 268 patients at risk of heart failure underwent the incremental shuttle walk test (SWT) and UPP by capillary electrophoresis coupled with mass spectrometry at baseline (discovery) and the 9-month final visit (replication). Sequencing of 1498 urinary peptides identified 170 non-collagen and 40 collagen-derived proteins. Ten exercise-related variables, including heart rate and blood pressure responses, symptoms and walking distance were summarised into a single factor, higher values indicating exercise intolerance. In exploratory analyses, exercise intolerance was related to the UPP, first in linear and logistic regression models, considering one peptide at a time, and next by elastic net regression considering the peptides retained in the previous step. Replicated proteins were subjected to pathway analysis.Twenty-nine non-collagen and 31 collagen-derived peptides were associated with reduced exercise capacity with correction for multiple testing. In elastic net regression, exercise intolerance was in >50% of 1000 bootstrap runs associated with the non-collagen proteins FXYD2, GAPDH, HBB, KCNB1, MB, MYOCD, SECTM1, SNX9, TACC3, TMSB4X, and TTN and with collagens COL5A1, COL6A1, COL11A2, and COL28A1. Enriched pathways involved oxygen homoeostasis, oxidative stress regulation, metabolic and developmental processes, and muscle biology.In HOMAGE patients, UPP identified parent proteins regulating exercise endurance, which are involved in oxygenation, vascular and muscle structure and function, maintenance of the circulating volume, and protection against oxidative stress.European Union.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Increased matrix stiffness is a biomechanical feature of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) that functions as an important promoting factor driving tumor progression. Characterization of the mechanosensors and the underlying downstream mechanisms driving HCC could help identify potential treatment strategies. In this study, we developed a standard procedure for screening and identifying mechanosensors, revealing two HCC mechanosensors, SDC4 and PKD2. These two mechanosensory pathways collaboratively mediated matrix stiffness-promoted DNA damage repair. Specifically, SDC4 and PKD2 modulated matrix stiffness-increased BANF1 nuclear translocation through increasing PP2A assembly and activity. Subsequently, nuclear BANF1 promoted the formation of MRN complex and phosphorylation of its downstream effectors to enhance DNA damage repair. These findings not only expand the theoretical understanding of matrix stiffness-regulated DNA damage repair but also offer a screening/identification approach for mechanosensors in cancer.
Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is associated with aggressive clinical behavior and poor outcomes. In this study, we investigated the anticancer efficacy and underlying mechanisms of Stellettin B, an isomalabaricane triterpene isolated from the marine sponge Jaspis stellifera, in OSCC cells. Our results demonstrate that Stellettin B significantly inhibited the proliferation of HSC-3 and OC-2 cells while sparing normal oral keratinocytes. Mechanistically, Stellettin B triggers a predominantly caspase-independent apoptotic program, evidenced by the pronounced mitochondrial-to-nuclear translocation of apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) and endonuclease G (EndoG) following DNA damage, whereas classical caspase activation functions as a dispensable, secondary event. Furthermore, Stellettin B suppressed migration and invasion by reversing epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), characterized by E-cadherin upregulation and downregulation of Vimentin, Snail, Slug, and β-catenin. Transcriptomic profiling further revealed significant suppression of mTORC1 signaling and EDIL3 expression. In conclusion, these findings demonstrate that Stellettin B exerts multimodal antitumor activity in OSCC and highlight its therapeutic potential as a marine-derived anticancer agent.© The author(s).
Perimenopause represents a pivotal transitional stage in female reproductive aging, often accompanied by neurological disorders such as cognitive decline. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain incompletely understood.In this study, a total of 18 eight-week-old female Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were randomly divided into the control group and the perimenopausal syndrome (PMS) model group induced by bilateral ovariectomy (OVX). We systematically investigated the regulatory mechanisms of perimenopausal cognitive impairment by integrating behavioral assessments, histopathological examinations, biochemical and molecular validation, as well as multi-omics approaches, including transcriptomics, metabolomics, and ionomics.The results showed that PMS rats displayed marked cognitive deficits alongside evident pathological alterations in hippocampal neurons. Differentially expressed genes were enriched in the inflammatory mediator regulation of transient receptor potential (TRP) channels pathway. Adhesion G protein-coupled receptor L2 (Adgrl2) and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II delta (Camk2d) were synergistically upregulated, driving activation of the transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) channel, which induced Ca2+ homeostasis imbalance and calcium overload. Adgrl2 was specifically highly expressed in microglia, accompanied by elevated levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), forming a vicious cycle of Ca2+-inflammation. Metabolomics analysis also revealed widespread metabolic disorders involving pathways such as amino acid and energy metabolism.The Adgrl2-Camk2d-TRPV1 signaling axis is a core driver pathway of perimenopausal cognitive impairment, exacerbating neuronal damage by mediating calcium overload, neuroinflammation, and metabolic disorders. This discovery provides a novel pathological mechanism for perimenopausal cognitive impairment, identifies Adgrl2 and TRPV1 as potential therapeutic targets, and designates Ca2+ as an ideal diagnostic biomarker, offering significant support for clinical diagnosis, treatment, and related theoretical research.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Chai, Yin, Wei, Sun, Wei and Shi.
Polycystic kidney disease (PKD) arises from mutations in cilia-associated genes, such as PKD1 and PKD2, expressed in renal epithelial cells, leading to progressive kidney dysfunction and end-stage kidney disease (ESKD). PKD patients exhibit significant heterogeneity in disease progression, largely due to genetic and environmental modifiers. Like patients, mouse models of PKD also exhibit significant heterogeneity with regards to the gene mutated, age of disease onset, and rate of disease progression. To elucidate the cellular and molecular consequences of these variables, we constructed an integrated single-cell RNA sequencing atlas across mouse models of PKD, mapping changes in cell type composition, gene expression, and intercellular signaling networks across the whole atlas and within individual models. Across models, single cell RNA sequencing (scRNAseq) data revealed increased Spp1 (osteopontin) expression and signaling from PKD-enriched clusters. Global deletion of Spp1 in Pkd1RC/RC mice resulted in a modest reduction in cyst severity and improved kidney function. From these studies, we created a freely available, searchable website (https://bmblx.bmi.osumc.edu/scPKD/) that can be used to identify cross- and intra-model changes in gene expression, guiding researchers to new therapeutic targets for treating PKD.
SBA, (E)-4-(2-chloro-1-(2-chloro-benzyl)-1H-indol-3-yl)but-3-en-2-one, is a derivative of natural product, named 4,4'-dimethoxychalcone. In this study, the impact of newly synthesized SBA on cell apoptosis was investigated in human oral cancer SCC-4 cells in vitro. The results showed that SBA decreased cell viability, induced S and G2/M phase arrest, and induced apoptosis in SCC-4 cells. SBA also increased ROS production, reduced mitochondrial membrane potential, and activated caspase-9 and caspase-3 in a dose-dependent manner. SBA induced the upregulation of Chk1 and Chk2 expressions, while it resulted in a reduction of cdc2 and Cyclin B1 levels. SBA also increased the levels of Fas, FasL, FADD, caspase-8, and BID. Moreover, it increased the expression of Bad, Bax, cytochrome c, AIF, EndoG, caspase-9, and caspase-3, while reducing the expression of Bcl-2, Bcl-xL, and XIAP in SCC-4 cells. Taken together, these findings suggest that SBA induces cytotoxicity in SCC-4 cells via Fas-FasL- and mitochondria-mediated pathways.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Japan Society for Bioscience, Biotechnology, and Agrochemistry. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site-for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
GLI1-altered mesenchymal neoplasms are a recently described tumour group characterized by gene fusions or amplifications involving GLI1. They show a wide anatomical distribution and harbour potential to metastasize. This study aims to add to the data on GLI1-altered mesenchymal tumours involving the dermis and subcutis.Departmental files were searched for GLI1-altered mesenchymal neoplasms involving the dermis and/or subcutis. Clinicopathological features were reviewed, and cases were assessed by immunohistochemistry, GLI1 in situ hybridization, and targeted next-generation sequencing.Eight tumours were identified and located on the scalp (n = 3), gluteal region (n = 2), inguinal region (n = 1), supraclavicular area (n = 1), and the left index finger (n = 1). Seven men and one woman were affected (aged 24-78 years, median 53). Histopathologically, the tumours showed a multinodular growth pattern within the dermis and/or subcutaneous adipose tissue, were composed of ovoid cells with mild to moderate atypia, arranged in nests, sheets or strands. Most of them were associated with a rich capillary network. Mitotic activity was variable (0-22 per 10 high power fields). Necrosis was present in two cases. Gene fusion testing demonstrated a novel TUBA1A::GLI1 fusion in one of three cases tested. This tumour showed strong SOX10 and S100 positivity by immunohistochemistry while the remaining tumours were negative or only focally positive for both markers. All patients were alive at last follow-up: seven disease-free without recurrences and one patient with advanced localized disease and metastasis to bone.Superficial GLI1-altered mesenchymal tumours show a spectrum of histopathological presentations, inconsistent immunophenotypes and variable biological behaviour.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Tubulinopathies encompass a clinically and neuroradiologically diverse group of neurodevelopmental disorders caused by mutations in genes encoding tubulins and microtubule-associated proteins. This study aims to delineate the extensive phenotypic and genotypic spectrum within a pediatric cohort.We conducted a multicenter retrospective analysis of 15 pediatric patients from 12 unrelated families with genetically confirmed tubulinopathies across five tertiary centers in Turkey. Clinical data, seizure profiles, and neuroradiological findings were systematically evaluated.Genetic analysis identified 12 distinct pathogenic variants across seven genes (TUBA1A, TUBB2A, TUBB2B, TUBB3, TUBB4A, TUBG1, TUBGCP2), including four novel variants. The most prevalent clinical features included microcephaly (93.3%), global developmental delay (86.7%), and epilepsy (73.3%). Notably, one patient with TUBB2A-related tubulinopathy experienced a probable sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP). Movement disorders were observed in 33.3% of the cohort, including dystonia and mirror movements. Neuroradiological assessment revealed corpus callosum anomalies (76.9%) and cortical malformations (76.9%) as the most frequent findings. Furthermore, we identified a rare case of TUBGCP2-related tubulinopathy presenting with cystic leukomalacia, expanding the known radiological spectrum.Our findings underscore the profound genetic and phenotypic heterogeneity of tubulin-related disorders. The identification of rare variants and specific complications, such as SUDEP, highlights the necessity for comprehensive clinical monitoring and standardized management guidelines to optimize outcomes for this complex patient population.© 2026. Fondazione Società Italiana di Neurologia.
Varicocele is a leading cause of male infertility, primarily manifesting as asthenozoospermia. The underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear, and the potential role of protein lactylation in this condition is unknown.We performed a comprehensive lactylome analysis using data-independent acquisition (DIA) mass spectrometry on paired sperm samples collected from patients with varicocele-associated asthenozoospermia before and after treatment. Differential lactylation analysis and bioinformatic enrichment analyses were conducted.Disrupted lactate metabolism was observed in asthenozoospermic sperm, with decreased intracellular L-lactate and elevated seminal plasma L-lactate. This was concomitant with a global reduction in protein lactylation, particularly in the sperm midpiece and tail. Lactylome profiling identified 2,699 lactylation sites on 1,216 proteins. Comparison of pre- and post-treatment samples revealed 133 differentially lactylated proteins, which were significantly enriched in pathways critical for sperm motility, including glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, microtubule-based movement, and flagellar assembly. Notably, lactylation abundance of key proteins (TEKT3, AKAP4, TUBA1A, AKAP3, TUBB4B) were significantly downregulated.This study presents an initial characterization of the protein lactylation landscape in human sperm, revealing​ its alteration in the context of varicocele-associated asthenozoospermia. The findings suggest that dysregulation of the lactate-lactylation axis correlates with impaired sperm motility, potentially through concurrent alterations in energy metabolism and flagellar structure. This correlation underscores specific lactylation events that warrant future mechanistic investigation.Copyright © 2026 Cao, Liu, Nie, Zhu, Liu, Zhou, Ma, Liu and Qin.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, characterized by marked molecular heterogeneity, late-stage diagnosis, and limited therapeutic options. Emerging evidence highlights the interplay between cytoskeletal dynamics, epigenetic regulation, and oncogenic signaling pathways in hepatocarcinogenesis. Histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC6), a key regulator of cytoplasmic protein acetylation, modulates α-tubulin stability, while CTNNB1 (β-catenin) serves as a central effector of the Wnt signaling pathway. However, the existence and functional relevance of a coordinated HDAC6-TUBA1A-CTNNB1 regulatory axis in HCC remain insufficiently explored. We conducted a comprehensive integrative bioinformatic analysis using multiple publicly available datasets and platforms, including TCGA, GEO, GEPIA3, TNMplot, UALCAN, TIMER2.0, STRING, ENCORI, HPA, TargetScan, miRDB, CRISPRdb, GSCALite, and exoRBase. Gene expression, promoter methylation, survival associations, immune infiltration, regulatory RNA interactions, and therapeutic targetability were systematically evaluated. HDAC6 expression was significantly downregulated in HCC tissues, whereas TUBA1A and CTNNB1 were upregulated. Reduced HDAC6 expression was associated with poorer survival outcomes, while TUBA1A and CTNNB1 showed no significant prognostic value. Methylation analysis revealed gene-specific epigenetic alterations, including hypomethylation of CTNNB1 and differential methylation patterns in HDAC6 and TUBA1A. Immune infiltration analysis demonstrated that HDAC6 expression positively correlated with cytotoxic immune cell populations and negatively with immunosuppressive subsets. Regulatory network analyses identified lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA interactions, particularly involving SNHG1. Furthermore, in silico CRISPR targetability and extracellular vesicle (EV) transcript profiling suggested potential translational applicability of this axis. Our findings support a hypothesis of the existence of a dysregulated HDAC6-α-tubulin-β-catenin axis in HCC, linking cytoskeletal remodeling with oncogenic signaling and immune modulation. This axis may indicate a promising candidate for biomarker development and targeted therapeutic strategies, warranting further experimental validation.
ADAR1 is overexpressed in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and has been linked to poor prognosis, metastasis, and recurrence; however, its precise functions and underlying mechanisms, particularly in the context of metastasis, remain inadequately elucidated. This study seeks to elucidate the functions and underlying mechanisms of the most abundantly expressed isoform of ADAR1, ADAR1p110, in the setting of HCC metastasis. In this study, hepatocyte-specific ADAR1p110 knock-in mice and engineered HCC cell lines were utilized to investigate the function of ADAR1p110 in vivo and in vitro. Genome sequencing, transcriptome sequencing, microRNA sequencing, RNA immunoprecipitation qPCR (RIP-qPCR), and RNA pull-down assays were performed to elucidate the mechanism of ADAR1p110 in HCC. We demonstrated that ADAR1p110 overexpression promotes HCC metastasis by improving the motility of HCC cells. Mechanistically, ADAR1p110 overexpression increases TUBA1A expression, which plays a crucial role in regulating HCC cell motility. At the molecular level, ADAR1p110 suppresses miR-451a biogenesis by competitively binding to pri-miR-451a, thereby preventing its cleavage by the Drosha/DGCR8 complex. Furthermore, we confirmed that TUBA1A is a direct downstream target of miR-451a.© 2025 The Authors.
To determine the diagnostic yield of comprehensive genetic testing in patients with neuroimaging findings suggestive of lissencephaly spectrum disorders and to characterize novel pathogenic variants contributing to the genetic architecture of the spectrum.We reviewed clinical and genetic findings of 23 patients with neuroimaging features suspected of the lissencephaly spectrum who underwent genetic testing at the Children's Hospital Zagreb between 2016 and 2025. Clinical data were obtained from medical records and outpatient assessments by clinical geneticists. Genetic testing included chromosomal microarray, clinical exome sequencing, and whole-exome sequencing.A molecular diagnosis was established in 15 of 23 patients (65.2%). The pathogenic variants involved genes related to microtubule function (DCX, TUBA1A, TUBB2B, DYNC1H1) and variants in transcriptional and regulatory genes (FOXG1, WDR62). Four novel (likely) pathogenic variants were detected in well-established lissencephaly genes (DCX, TUBA1A, FOXG1, and WDR62). Although most cases involved single-gene variants, three patients had pathogenic copy number variants (1q43q44, 22q11.21, and Xq22.3q23 deletions).Exome sequencing when used as a first-line test, complemented by chromosomal microarray, provides a high diagnostic yield in patients with lissencephaly spectrum disorders. This integrated approach facilitates precise diagnosis, informs prognosis, enables targeted follow-up, and supports comprehensive genetic counselling.
Impairment of axonal transport may contribute to the degeneration of dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons in the substantia nigra (SN), a key event in Parkinson's disease (PD) pathogenesis. Due to the lack of early diagnosis, changes in axonal transport at the preclinical stage can only be studied in PD models. We assessed gene expression (RT-PCR after cell sorting) and protein levels (semiquantitative immunohistochemistry) of axonal transport-related proteins in SN DAergic neurons from mice in subchronic MPTP models of PD (preclinical and clinical stages) and controls. The proteins studied included α-tubulin (Tuba1a), β-tubulin (Tubb3), kinesin (Kif5b, Klc1), dynein (Dynll1, Dync1i1), dynactin (Dctn1), microtubule affinity-regulating kinase 1 (Mark1), and tau (Mapt). In the preclinical stage, Kif5b expression and Kif5B level were increased, possibly to compensatorily preserve anterograde transport. Dynll1 and Tuba1a were upregulated, whereas Dync1i1 and Mapt were downregulated, with no change in tubulin or tau protein levels. In the clinical stage, Klc1, Dync1i1, Dctn1, Mark1, and Mapt expression and Kif5B protein levels decreased. These data indicate that transcriptional alterations in axonal transport proteins precede protein-level changes in DAergic neurons. The upregulation of Kif5B in the preclinical stage suggests that axonal transport proteins may serve as potential early therapeutic targets in PD.
Epithelial-to-mesenchymal transitions (EMT) require extensive cytoskeletal remodeling to enable changes in cell polarity, adhesion, and migration. Although transcriptional programs controlling EMT are well characterized, how microtubule composition is developmentally regulated during cell state transitions remains poorly understood. Here, we establish a spatially resolved resource delineating the expression of α- and β-tubulin isotypes during neural crest (NC) EMT and tissue differentiation in the chick embryo. Integration of publicly available single-cell RNA sequencing datasets reveals diverse patterns of tubulin gene expression, ranging from broadly expressed isotypes (TUBA1A and TUBA1B) to more cell-type-restricted transcripts (TUBAL3 and TUBB4B). Several tubulin genes, including TUBB3, TUBA3E, and TUBG1, are enriched within NC and NC-associated cell types. Using fluorescence in situ hybridization chain reaction (HCR) to spatiotemporally characterize transcripts encoding selected tubulin isotypes, we validate these patterns and map their expression across developmental stages. These transcript patterns provide a map of tubulin gene expression, but additional studies are needed to determine how they relate to microtubule composition. We further show expression of the microtubule motor genes KIF11 and DYNC1LI1, revealing overlapping expression patterns between tubulin and motor-associated genes during EMT. Together, these data define a cell state-resolved atlas of tubulin gene expression during vertebrate EMT.
Interpreting missense variants in highly conserved, paralog-rich gene families remains a major barrier to understanding protein function and advancing precision medicine. Here, we combine comprehensive mutagenesis, high-content live-cell imaging, and automated quantitative analysis to generate a complete functional atlas of all 2,683 single-nucleotide coding variants in human α-tubulin TUBA1A. Systematic profiling of microtubule assembly revealed distinct classes of mutations that disrupt folding, chaperone engagement, and protofilament geometry, defining structural constraints that govern tubulin function. This approach complements conservation-based predictors and enables functional reinterpretation of disease-associated variants. Molecular dynamics simulations further revealed how local perturbations in GTP (guanosine triphosphate) binding, dimer contacts, and lateral interfaces propagate to alter filament architecture. Integrating these datasets produced a predictive framework that generalizes across tubulin isotypes and species, enabling accurate inference of variant effects. This work establishes a scalable, high-resolution strategy for functional annotation of conserved proteins and provides mechanistic insight into cytoskeletal assembly and flexibility.
Gastric cancer (GC) is characterized by a complex tumor microenvironment (TME) with substantial cellular heterogeneity. Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) represent the most abundant immune cell population in the TME and exhibit remarkable functional plasticity. This study integrated single-cell RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq) data, bulk transcriptomics, and spatial transcriptomics to systematically characterize TAM heterogeneity and identify prognostic biomarkers in GC. ScRNA-seq analysis revealed nine major cell types (T cells, plasma cells, epithelial cells, fibroblasts, macrophages, endothelial cells, B cells, smooth muscle cells, and mast cells) and distinct macrophage subpopulations with tumor-specific expansion patterns. High-dimensional weighted gene coexpression network analysis identified coexpression modules enriched in GC-associated macrophages. Machine learning algorithms were employed to construct a prognostic signature, and the CoxBoost model demonstrated superior predictive performance across multiple cohorts. The seven-gene signature, including UPP1, VCAN, ELL2, ABCA1, TUBA1A, MX2, and TSPO, showed robust prognostic value in survival prediction. Spatial transcriptomic analysis further revealed distinct metabolic profiles and extensive cellular interaction networks mediated by UPP1-expressing TAMs. These findings provide a comprehensive atlas of TAM heterogeneity and establish novel prognostic biomarkers with potential therapeutic implications in GC.Copyright © 2026 Zhaoyan Li et al. Human Mutation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Neuronal polarization is essential for functional compartmentalization, enabling dendritic synaptic integration and axonal action potential generation. Although structural differences in mitochondria across compartments have been identified, their functional distinctions remain unclear. Here, we uncovered compartment-specific mitochondrial Ca2+ dynamics and their molecular determinants. In axonal mitochondria, Ca2+ uptake through mitochondrial Ca2+ uniporter occurs independently of ER-stored Ca2+ release, with faster matrix Ca2+ clearance than dendritic mitochondria, where Ca2+ uptake predominantly originates from ER Ca2+. The ER-independent mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake in axonal mitochondria is associated with enriched mitochondrial Ca2+ uniporter-regulating proteins, MICU1 and MICU2, whereas higher NCLX expression facilitates rapid Ca2+ clearance. Moreover, NCLX knockdown, which functionally mimics a mental retardation-associated mutation, caused more significant developmental defects of axons than dendrites in vivo, aligning with its enrichment in axons. These findings highlight fundamental Ca2+-modulating features and developmental importance of neuronal mitochondria in a compartment-specific manner and reveal the key underlying molecular determinants.© 2026. The Author(s).
Mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake is mediated by the mitochondrial calcium uniporter complex (MCUx), in which MICU1/2 serve as cytosolic Ca2+-sensing gatekeepers that set a Ca2+-dependent activation threshold. Coordinated control of MCUx activity is critical because mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake couples cytosolic Ca2+ signals to metabolic activation and must be regulated to prevent mitochondrial Ca2+ overload and bioenergetic dysfunction. We developed a mechanistic model that incorporates explicit MICU1/2-dependent MCUx gatekeeping and a thermodynamically constrained Ca2+ transport formulation that accounts for Mg2+ inhibition and membrane potential dependence. Cytosolic and mitochondrial Ca2+ dynamics were simulated by integrating the MCUx model into a mitochondrial cation-handling model under multiple Ca2+ stimulation protocols. Because matrix-side Ca2+ regulation of MCUx remains controversial, we also evaluated a putative matrix-side regulatory mechanism by comparing simulations with and without an added matrix-side regulatory module, rather than assuming such regulation as a required feature of the MCUx model. The model reproduces key experimental behaviors across genotypes. In wild-type mitochondria, MCUx-mediated Ca²⁺ uptake is negligible below a cytosolic Ca2+ threshold (~0.2 µM), whereas MICU1-knockout mitochondria show constitutive uptake and MICU2-knockout mitochondria exhibit an intermediate, lowered threshold. Inclusion of matrix-side MCUx regulation transiently attenuated MCUx-mediated Ca²⁺ uptake over an intermediate mitochondrial Ca2+ range, producing higher transient cytosolic Ca2+ and lower transient mitochondrial Ca2+, while both cases approached similar steady states. In addition, cytosolic Mg2+ acts as a graded inhibitor of MCUx-mediated Ca2+ uptake, limiting mitochondrial Ca2+ loading. These results provide a quantitative framework for coupled cytosolic-mitochondrial Ca²⁺ dynamics across diverse conditions.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) features high biological heterogeneity and unfavorable prognoses, demanding reliable prognostic biomarkers. Dysregulated post-translational modifications (PTMs) drive AML progression by disrupting protein function and cellular signaling. This work constructed a PTM-based risk signature to predict AML survival and dissect the tumor immune microenvironment.RNA-seq and clinical data of TCGA-Acute Myeloid Leukemia (LAML) AML patients and normal genotype-tissue expression samples were analyzed. Limma identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs), and overlapping PTM-related DEGs were screened. Unsupervised consensus clustering stratified patients into molecular subgroups, whose overall survival (OS) was compared via Kaplan-Meier curves. A prognostic score model was built through univariate Cox screening, least absolute shrinkage and selection operator dimension reduction and multivariate Cox regression, validated by time-dependent receiver operating characteristic curves. Cell-type Identification By Estimating Relative Subsets Of RNA Transcripts (CIBERSORT) and single-sample gene set enrichment analysis quantified immune infiltration, while tumor mutation burden (TMB) was calculated to characterize genomic features. The GSE71014 cohort served as external validation.A four-gene signature (ITGAX, DOCK1, CPNE8, and GABRE) was established and validated. High-risk patients had markedly shorter OS, with 1-, 3-, and 5-year AUC values of 0.79, 0.79, and 0.90, consistent with external cohort results. The two risk groups displayed divergent immune landscapes; high-risk patients overexpressed multiple immune checkpoints. Though TMB was similar across groups, high-risk patients with low TMB had the worst survival. Low-risk patients showed greater cytarabine susceptibility, confirming the model's clinical value.This PTM-associated signature accurately stratifies AML patients and reveals immune microenvironment disparities. It enables precise personalized prognosis and identifies PTM-related genes as promising therapeutic targets for AML immunotherapy.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory autoimmune skin disease for which no standardised and reliable molecular biomarkers of disease course or activity are currently available. Here, we aimed to identify serum biomarkers of psoriasis. Serum samples from 40 patients with psoriasis and 40 healthy volunteers were analysed using ELISA and Proximity Extension Assay proteomics. ELISA revealed significantly increased serum levels of AGO2 and APOA1 in psoriatic patients versus controls, with a strong association between APOA1 and psoriasis (OR = 20.72, 95% CI of 4.57-93.87, p = 0.000137). Targeted serum proteomics additionally identified 35 differentially expressed proteins, including well-known psoriasis drivers (e.g., top upregulated IL17A and SERPINB4). The most downregulated was adrenomedullin (ADM, FC = -10.12). For 14 altered proteins, no previous direct associations with psoriasis were reported. Among them, DEFB103A_DEFB103B and DSG3 showed the best discrimination between psoriasis and control samples, while SERPINB4 correlated with psoriasis severity. APOA1, DEFB103A_DEFB103B, and DSG3 emerge as novel candidate circulating psoriasis biomarkers, and SERPINB4 as a biomarker of psoriasis severity. The functional role of DSG3 and other newly identified proteins (ACRV1, HAO1, ADH4, GPD1, GFER, PTGES2, DSG3, AFAP1L1, GALNT3, RASGRP2, MAP2K6, LXN, NBEAL2, and VPS54) in psoriasis requires further studies.
Glanzmann thrombasthenia (GT) and GT-like phenotype represent inherited platelet disorders caused by defects in platelet glycoprotein αIIbβ3 (encoded by ITGA2B and ITGB3) or RASGRP2- and FERMT3-mediated platelet intracellular signaling, respectively. While globally rare, prevalence of these bleeding phenotypes is notably higher in regions with high consanguinity, including Pakistan, with limited data on GT-associated variants. Compared with traditional diagnostic approaches, next-generation sequencing (NGS) offers comprehensive detection of known and novel variants, enhancing diagnostic accuracy in genetically heterogeneous disorders like GT.This study investigated the mutational spectrum of GT and GT-like phenotype in 67 patients from 55 unrelated Pakistani families using a targeted gene panel. Variant annotation and pathogenicity assessments were performed using established guidelines. Structural modeling and molecular dynamics simulations were used to predict the functional consequences of select novel variants.A total of 21 distinct variants were identified (15 in ITGA2B and 6 in ITGB3), achieving an 87.3% diagnostic yield. In all, 10 were novel, including missense, frameshift, splice-site, and copy number variants (CNVs). Two recurrent ITGA2B frameshift variants suggested possible founder effect. Analysis of RASGRP2 revealed two novel homozygous variants in GT-like cases. A genotype-phenotype association analyses suggested a severe bleeding diathesis in GT patients harboring truncating mutations in an age-dependent manner, and clinical diversity among GT patients with same genetic variant.This study expands the mutational spectrum of GT and GT-like bleeding diathesis in Pakistani population, identifying novel and recurrent mutations, which highlights the diagnostic value of NGS.Thieme. All rights reserved.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0055785.].Copyright: © 2026 Plovanich et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Metabolic and mitochondrial alterations are central in the pathogenesis of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) since therapies targeting these alterations slow kidney disease progression in orthologous animal models. To investigate metabolic and mitochondrial defects in an animal model orthologous to ADPKD, we used male mice homozygous for a point variant in the GPS cleavage site of the polycystin-1 (Pkd1V/V) and evaluated oxygen consumption, Ca2+ uptake, and redox state in the mitochondrial fraction of Pkd1V/V kidneys and wild-type controls (WT). Our findings revealed mitochondrial heterogeneity in Pkd1V/V kidneys, with regions of preserved morphology alongside areas displaying swollen and disorganized mitochondria. Notably, preserved mitochondria were smaller, with either unchanged mitochondrial mass markers (TFAM, CYTC, mDNA/nDNA) or increased TOM20 levels compared with WT. Mitochondria isolated from Pkd1V/V kidneys showed a reduction in oxygen consumption rates and calcium retention capacity in the presence of NADH-generating substrates, but not in the presence of succinate. Consistently, levels of specific proteins of complex I, III, and V were decreased, but not of complex II. Proteins involved in calcium homeostasis (VDAC1, MCU, MICU1, MICU2, and dimeric NCLX) were decreased in Pkd1V/V kidneys. No change in horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-H2O2-mediated Amplex Red oxidation was observed in diseased mitochondria, and mitochondrial 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) levels were unchanged, although increased in whole kidney extracts. Together, our results showed that cleaved PC1 plays a critical role in maintaining mitochondrial mass, integrity, and function. Given the orthologous nature of our animal model, the observed alterations may be applicable to human ADPKD.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Cleavage-deficient polycystin-1 disrupts mitochondrial function in an ADPKD mouse model (Pkd1V/V). Pkd1V/V kidneys exhibit heterogeneous mitochondrial morphology, reduced oxygen consumption, and calcium retention when relying on NADH-linked substrates, but preserved function with succinate. Consistent decreases in complexes I, III, V, and calcium-handling proteins accompany these defects. Although oxidative stress is unchanged in Pkd1V/V mitochondria, 4-HNE is increased in cystic kidney. Given the orthologous nature of Pkd1V/V, the observed alterations might be relevant to human ADPKD.
Deep infiltrating endometriosis (DIE) is a highly fibrotic and deeply invasive subtype of endometriosis that causes severe pelvic pain, infertility and marked impairment of quality of life. Metabolic, microbial and immune disturbances have been reported in women with endometriosis, but whether these systemic perturbations causally contribute to DIE and which lesion-level molecular mediators connect them to pelvic pathology remains unknown.We performed two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) to assess the causal effects of circulating metabolites, gut microbiota (GM) traits and immune cell phenotypes on DIE risk using genome-wide association data from FinnGen and large exposure GWAS. Bayesian colocalization was applied to identify protein-coding genes with shared causal variants between exposures and DIE. Colocalized genes were integrated with RNA-sequencing data from GSE141549 (normal endometrium, n = 43; DIE lesions, n = 88) to evaluate differential expression and immune-cell associations inferred by CIBERSORT-like deconvolution. Machine-learning-based feature selection was used to derive a multigene logistic model, and protein expression of feature genes was validated by immunohistochemistry in independent specimens.MR revealed putative causal associations between multiple circulating metabolites, GM taxa and immune phenotypes and DIE susceptibility, including risk-increasing bile acid-related and acylcarnitine species, specific bacterial taxa, and monocytic/dendritic-cell traits, and protective lipid species, short-chain-fatty-acid-linked genera and CD45RA-CD4+ T-cell subsets. Colocalization identified 324 protein-coding genes, of which 42 were differentially expressed between DIE and controls and enriched in inflammatory and extracellular matrix remodeling pathways. A five-gene panel-HDC, GADD45B, CDK5, AHNAK and RASGRP2-was prioritized, showed structured correlations with B-cell, NK-cell and CD4+ memory T-cell subsets, and showed excellent within-cohort discrimination between DIE lesions and normal endometrium (AUC = 0.999). Immunohistochemistry confirmed upregulation of HDC, GADD45B, AHNAK and RASGRP2 and downregulation of CDK5 in DIE lesions.This multi-omics MR framework supports a putative gut-immune-pelvic pathway in DIE and identifies a biologically plausible five-gene tissue-level signature consistent with lesion-associated fibrotic and immune-inflammatory remodeling.Copyright © 2026 Shi, Song, Wu, Cheng, Liu, Tian and Li.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) lacks reliable, disease-specific, and minimally invasive biomarkers, representing a major barrier to early diagnosis and patient stratification. The primary aim of this translational pilot study was to identify a disease-specific, TDP-43-related, gene-microRNA (miRNA) signature in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of ALS patients with potential diagnostic value. To this end, we first identified differentially expressed disease-specific genes (dsDEGs) using a TDP-43-based rat model of ALS, generated by stereotaxic infusion of full-length (FL) TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) into the motor cortex. Transcriptomic profiling of the motor cortex revealed candidate dsDEGs, which were subsequently validated by RT-qPCR in motor cortex, spinal cord, and PBMCs from the same animals. To assess translational relevance, expression levels of these dsDEGs were analyzed in PBMCs from early- to mid-stage ALS patients and matched healthy controls, while disease specificity was evaluated using Parkinson's disease (PD) samples. In parallel, conserved miRNAs predicted to target the identified dsDEGs were examined in both rat and human PBMCs. Five dsDEGs, Mctp1, Penk, Mt2A, Drd1, and Rasgrp2, were consistently dysregulated across central and peripheral tissues in the TDP-43 rat model. RT-qPCR analysis of human PBMCs confirmed significant and selective dysregulation of these genes in ALS, but not in PD, supporting disease specificity. Moreover, exposure of human neuroblastoma cells and healthy PBMCs to TDP-43 recapitulated the ALS-like expression changes. Computational and experimental analyses identified seven conserved miRNAs targeting these dsDEGs, of which four were significantly downregulated in ALS PBMCs, supporting a coordinated regulatory network. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analyses demonstrated strong discriminative performance for both the gene signature (AUC 0.87-1.00) and the associated miRNAs (AUC 0.95-1.00). Together, these findings define a novel PBMC-based gene-miRNA signature that mirrors central ALS pathology and shows high diagnostic accuracy and disease specificity, highlighting its potential as a minimally invasive biomarker for ALS.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
While the venetoclax-based VD-CAG regimen has shown promising efficacy in acute myeloid leukemia (AML), its underlying molecular response mechanisms remain poorly understood, and robust prognostic biomarkers for non-M3 AML treated with this regimen are lacking. This study aimed to elucidate the molecular alterations associated with VD-CAG treatment response, and to identify and validate robust prognostic biomarkers to improve risk stratification for non-M3 AML patients.This study enrolled 15 non-M3 AML patients receiving VD-CAG induction therapy, and conducted integrative multi-omics profiling of their bone marrow samples: RNA sequencing was performed on 10 pairs of pre- and post-treatment samples, while data-independent acquisition (DIA) proteomics was applied to another 5 paired samples. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was used to identify gene modules correlated with composite complete remission. A prognostic signature was further derived using Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) regression, with the TCGA-LAML cohort as the discovery set and the independent Beat AML cohort as the external validation set.Transcriptomic analysis revealed that differentially expressed genes after VD-CAG treatment were mainly enriched in MAPK signaling and cell adhesion pathways. WGCNA identified five gene modules significantly correlated with treatment remission. We finally constructed a robust 11-gene prognostic signature (TLN1, ARL15, PDZD2, ACER2, IGF2BP3, TMEM200A, DOCK1, SYTL4, CPNE8, FNDC3B, and MANBA), which effectively stratified patients' overall survival. This signature showed strong predictive performance in both the discovery cohort (TCGA: HR=3.60, p=7.6e-10; 3-year AUC=0.79) and the independent validation cohort (Beat AML: HR=1.89, p=1.3e-3; 3-year AUC=0.83). Proteomic analysis identified 447 differentially expressed proteins between pre- and post-treatment samples, among which FNDC3B, a key protein in the prognostic signature, was significantly downregulated after VD-CAG intervention.This study reveals the molecular alterations associated with VD-CAG treatment in non-M3 AML, and provides a validated 11-gene prognostic signature. These findings enhance our understanding of the response mechanisms of the VD-CAG regimen, and offer a tool to improve prognostic stratification and clinical decision-making for non-M3 AML patients.Copyright © 2026 Tang, Yang, Zhang, Tang, Yang, Li, Wang and Gong.
Astrocytes perform multifarious roles in the formation, regulation, and function of synapses in the brain, but the mechanisms involved are incompletely understood. Interestingly, astrocytes abundantly express neuroligins, postsynaptic adhesion molecules that function as synaptic organizers by binding to presynaptic neurexins. Here, we examined the function of neuroligins in astrocytes with a rigorous genetic approach that uses the conditional deletion of all major neuroligins (Nlgn1-3) in astrocytes in vivo in mice and complemented this approach by a genetic deletion of neuroligins in glial cells that are co-cultured with human neurons. Our results show that early postnatal deletion of neuroligins from astrocytes in vivo has no detectable effect on cortical or hippocampal excitatory or inhibitory synapses, and does not alter the cytoarchitecture of astrocytes when evaluated in young adult mice. Moreover, deletion of astrocytic neuroligins in co-cultures of human neurons produced no detectable consequences for the formation and function of synapses. Thus, astrocytic neuroligins are unlikely to fundamentally shape synapse formation or astrocyte morphogenesis, but likely perform other important roles that remain to be discovered.© 2023, Golf et al.
Opioid dependence is a complex disorder influenced by multiple factors, including aging and genetic factors. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain incompletely understood. This in silico study integrated transcriptomic profiling, transcriptomic aging clock modeling, and GWAS analysis of brain samples to investigate molecular mechanisms associated with opioid dependence. One-hundred sixty-one DEGs were identified, including 147 upregulated and 14 downregulated genes in individuals with opioid dependence, which are involved in immune and inflammatory pathways (TNF signaling pathway). Network centrality analysis highlighted CCL2, CD44, THBS1, TIMP1, CD163, IL6, IL1B, and MYC as potential hub genes. FAM174B was downregulated in older individuals with opioid dependence, whereas ZNF256 was upregulated in younger individuals. A transcriptomic aging clock showed moderate predictive performance (r=0.686, MAE=5.16) and revealed significant differences in age-prediction residuals between younger and older groups, suggesting altered age-related transcriptional states in opioid dependence. Two genes (PHYH and LUCAT1) were strongly associated with age-prediction residuals. An analysis of six GWAS studies identified 223 SNP associations, including genome-wide significant variants in ADGRV1, OPRM1, CNIH3, RGMA, GPRIN3, GAPDHP15, SRP72P1, and CTCF-DT genes implicated in neuronal signaling and opioid pharmacology. Together, these findings highlight immune pathways, neuronal signaling, and aging-related molecular processes as key components of opioid dependence.
Substance use disorders (SUDs) represent a critical public health challenge, frequently compounded by co-occurring mental health conditions. While integrated care is the evidence-based standard of care, implementation gaps persist. This study utilized data from 3764 outpatient facilities from the 2023 National Substance Use and Mental Health Services Survey to evaluate mental health service integration and identify key predictors. Despite treating highly comorbid populations, 33% of facilities offered no mental health assessments. Integration levels varied sharply by facility type; opioid treatment programs (OTPs) served more clients with co-occurring disorders and were over twice as likely to provide comprehensive integration (43%) compared to non-OTPs (20%). Generalized ordered logistic regression revealed that private non-profit and public ownership, Joint Commission (TJC) accreditation, private insurance acceptance, and a higher co-occurring client volume were strong positive predictors of integrated care in the full sample. Conversely, CARF accreditation, Medicaid acceptance, and being in the Midwest were associated with a lower likelihood of integrated care. Stratified analysis uncovered critical variations by program type. Medicaid acceptance specifically lowered odds of integration in OTP. Furthermore, CARF accreditation was a negative predictor for OTPs but a positive predictor for non-OTPs. At the state level, location in a Medicaid managed care organization state significantly reduced integration odds solely for OTPs, while an increasing proportion of adults with a drug use disorder significantly increased likelihood of integration for non-OTPs. These results underscore how organizational structures, including facility type, accreditation, and state-level funding mechanisms shape care delivery. Addressing these systemic barriers, particularly financial and regulatory, is essential to closing the implementation gap and ensuring comprehensive care.© 2026. National Council for Mental Wellbeing.
Synaptic proteins are critical for maintaining healthy neuronal transmission but can also drive prion-like trans-synaptic spreading of pathological aggregated proteins found in many neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease. Recognizing technological limitations for in situ identification of synaptic proteins, we built a modular synaptic chimeric antigen receptor (synCAR) for capture of synaptic proteins by fusing a single-chain antibody fragment with the post-synaptic protein neurolignin-1 (NLGN1). Using our synCAR platform, we show that anchoring the tau antibody PHF1 to the synapse effectively captures pathogenic synaptic tau species. Expressing PHF1 synCAR at synapses in mouse primary and human neuronal tau seeding models results in increased tau aggregation, likely due to concentrating pathological tau seeds at the synapse. These findings provide the first published method for the isolation and modulation of synaptic protein function within relevant biological contexts, highlighting synCAR as a relevant instrumental platform for synaptic protein research and neurodegenerative disease drug development.© 2026 The Authors.
Multimorbidity, defined here as the co-occurrence of cardiovascular disease (CVD), type 2 diabetes (T2D), and/or cancer is a major public health challenge. However, its underlying biological mechanisms remain unclear, limiting progress toward identifying shared interventional targets.We applied large-scale plasma proteomics (SomaScan 7k; 7,289 aptamers) in 13,270 European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition (EPIC) participants to identify protein signatures of multimorbidity. We modelled multimorbidity progression as sequential disease transitions, i.e., from the disease-free state at baseline to a first disease and from the first disease to a second disease. Using weighted multivariable Cox regression, we estimated hazard ratios (HR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for risk of cancer, CVD, and T2D. Risk associations were replicated using Olink proteomics in UK Biobank (N = 44,567).We identified 422 aptamers associated with more than one disease (FDR-corrected P < 0.05), e.g., 265 aptamers were shared between CVD and T2D. Thirty-eight aptamers were associated with multimorbidity progression. Among these, 27 aptamers showed consistent positive associations across sequential disease transitions, including SEMA6A (disease-free to cancer HR: 1.14; 95% CI 1.05, 1.23; cancer to T2D HR: 2.61; 95% CI 1.76, 3.80). Four aptamers showed consistent inverse associations, including NLGN1 (disease-free to T2D HR: 0.72; 95% CI 0.61, 0.84; T2D to cancer HR: 0.57; 95% CI 0.43, 0.75). Nineteen of the identified proteins were also measured in UK Biobank, with broadly consistent associations.This study identifies candidate proteins that may indicate molecular pathways to multimorbidity of cardiometabolic diseases and cancer. Future studies should evaluate the causal roles of these proteins for targeted interventions and risk stratification.© 2026. The Author(s).
Optic nerve injury induces rapid retinal neurodegeneration; however, how distinct retinal cell type responses are coordinated from the hyperacute injury phase to the early repair phase remains incompletely understood. In this study, to explore the dynamic changes in intercellular and intracellular signaling events between different cell types and elucidate their potential roles in retinal ganglion cell survival and early repair, we generated a time-resolved single-nucleus RNA sequencing atlas of adult male mouse retinas across five hyperacute-to-acute timepoints (2 hours, 8 hours, 1 day, 3 days, and 7 days) following optic nerve injury. Using computational network analysis, we reconstructed dynamic cell-to-cell communication and subsequent internal genetic responses among retinal ganglion cells, Müller glia, microglia, and endothelial cells. Distinct stage-specific intercellular communication networks were identified, including transient Itgb1-associated signaling between Müller glia and retinal ganglion cells that peaked at early timepoints, enhanced Nrxn1-Nlgn1-mediated signaling in endothelial cells during the acute phase, and sustained Sema6a-Plxna4 interactions in microglia through day 7. Functional pathway analysis linked these signaling events to focal adhesion, energy metabolism, immune regulation, and cell adhesion pathways. Multiplex immunofluorescence further validated the temporal dynamics and spatial localization of key signaling molecules, including Itgb1, Nlgn1, and Plxna4, consistent with the transcriptomic findings. Collectively, these results delineate a coordinated hyperacute-to-acute neuro-glial-vascular signaling network that supports retinal ganglion cell survival and identify potential molecular targets for therapeutic intervention following optic nerve injury.Copyright © 2026 Neural Regeneration Research.
Synaptic development and functionality have been considered as fundamental mechanisms underlying a range of neuropsychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia. Emerging evidence from biological and clinical studies implicates mutations in the Disrupted-in-Schizophrenia-1 (DISC1) gene in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. In this study, genetic interactions among a select set of risk factor genes are examined using the unique model system: neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) in Drosophila. We found that dnlg1, the Drosophila homolog of the human Neuroligin-1, which encodes the NLGN1 protein, genetically interacts with DISC1 in synaptic development. We show that DISC1 overexpression in the dnlg1null heterozygous background causes synaptic alterations at the NMJs that are distinct from those in the wild-type background. Loss of dnlg1 enhanced the DISC1 overexpression phenotype in synaptic formation, strongly suppressing the formation of synaptic boutons. These results thus suggest an intriguing converging mechanism regulated by DISC1 and Neuroligin in the developing glutamatergic synapses.Copyright © 2026 Honda, Pandey, Sawa and Furukubo-Tokunaga.
Calcium (Ca2+) signaling is a key regulator of brain function and development. Here, we comprehensively analyze the Ca2+ signaling transcriptome in the adult mouse brain and the developing human brain to reveal the basis of signaling specificity. We show that neurons organize into non-stochastic Ca2+ states that reflect cell-type identity and capture subtle functional differences. These states arise from lineage-specific developmental Ca2+ programs that are detectable already in progenitor stages, and may precede differentiation into mature neuronal cell types. During neocortical development, many Ca2+ signaling genes, such as ADGRV1, NCALD, and CREB5, peak at distinct developmental stages, are evolutionarily conserved, and reflect transcriptional heterogeneity within progenitors associated with cell-fate decisions. Together, our findings provide an in-depth understanding of how a tightly regulated Ca2+ signaling transcriptome encodes cell-state-specific signaling programs and demonstrate that Ca2+ signaling is precisely tailored to distinct cell states.© 2026 The Author(s).
Type III CRISPR systems use cAn second messengers to activate CARF-containing effectors. Card1, a key auxiliary protein, binds cA4 via its CARF domain, activating its REase domain for ssRNA and ssDNA cleavage. The findings revealed a strong binding interaction between cA4 and the CARF domain, with each nucleotide forming at least four hydrogen bonds that stabilize the cA4 binding pocket and restrict its expansion. The conformational change was characterized by a pronounced swinging motion that enlarges the binding pocket, accompanied by a slight twisting motion between the two chains of the CARF domain. Despite significant conformational changes in the CARF domain, the two chains of Card1 exhibited high rigidity, with interchain conformational changes being much smaller than those of the entire complex. The findings further revealed that Card1 undergoes a twist of approximately 12.0° compared to the experimental structure. This study not only provides a theoretical basis for optimizing CRISPR-based genetic tools but also offers important insights into the Type III CRISPR immune mechanism.All simulations were performed using the AMBER24 package. For the all-atom model, the AMBER ff19SB force field was used. For the coarse-grained model, the SIRAH force field was employed. GaMD simulations were applied using a total potential energy boosting. The large conformational changes were investigated by coarse-grained MD simulations. The CPPTRAJ program was used to calculate structural parameters-including distances, native contacts, RMSD, secondary structure, PCA, angles, and dihedral angles.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) exhibits marked lateralized gray matter alterations, yet whole-brain network vulnerability patterns, particularly those independent of seizure laterality, remain incompletely understood. Furthermore, the spatial correspondence between macroscopic network disruptions and underlying molecular architectures lacks systematic characterization, limiting mechanistic insights into epileptic network pathology. We utilized voxel-based morphometry (VBM) and surface-based morphometry (SBM) to characterize whole-brain gray matter alterations in 69 TLE patients (34 left-TLE, 35 right-TLE for lateralization analysis) and 47 controls. Twelve multivariate machine learning algorithms were employed to validate the robustness and importance of structural features. Additionally, imaging-transcriptomics analyses using the Allen Human Brain Atlas were conducted to examine spatial associations between gene expression profiles and brain morphological alterations. Beyond lateralization-specific atrophy, we identified bilateral somatomotor and default mode networks, along with the right ventral attention network, as primary vulnerable networks independent of seizure origin (all PFDR < 0.05). Machine learning confirmed right somatomotor network atrophy as a structurally robust signature of TLE. Imaging-transcriptomics analysis revealed a striking correspondence between cortical network atrophy and synaptic genes related to signaling and structural organization. Specifically, we uncovered distinct spatial covariation profiles among four synaptic hub genes: while CTNNB1, NLGN1, and GRM5 exhibited positive spatial correlations with atrophy patterns, SNAP25 displayed an inverse relationship. This study delineates lateralization-independent vulnerability networks in TLE and characterizes their spatial-molecular architecture. By linking macroscopic atrophy to microscopic synaptic signatures, our findings present a structural-molecular framework that offers insights for future mechanistic studies and highlights potential targets for synapse-based precision therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Muscular dystrophies (MDs) are a genetically heterogeneous group of disorders, posing significant diagnostic challenges, especially in populations with high consanguinity. Despite advances in genetic testing, a substantial proportion of patients remain undiagnosed. Whole-exome sequencing (WES) has emerged as a powerful tool for identifying causal variants in such unresolved cases. To identify the genetic basis of nondystrophinopathic MDs in Iranian families with inconclusive prior genetic testing and to evaluate the diagnostic yield and mutational spectrum in this population.We performed WES on one affected individual from each of 10 unrelated Iranian families with clinically diagnosed MD. Candidate variants were prioritized based on in silico prediction tools (SIFT, PolyPhen-2, CADD, SpliceAI), population frequency databases (gnomAD, 1000 Genomes, EVS), and ACMG/AMP guidelines. Findings were validated by Sanger sequencing, MLPA, and STR haplotype analysis. Segregation analysis was performed in available family members.WES led to a diagnostic yield of 69.2% (9/13 variants in 10 families) after segregation analysis and ACMG-based reclassification. We identified 13 candidate variants in 10 known MD-associated genes, including DYSF, SGCA, TK2, MAP3K20, LMNA, COL6A1, COL6A2, ITGA7, MICU1, and SGCB. Among these, seven variants (54%) were novel. The majority of cases (84.6%) followed an autosomal recessive pattern, consistent with high parental consanguinity (70%). Notably, a de novo splice-site variant in COL6A2 (c.1053+1G>T) was identified in a sporadic case, confirming an autosomal dominant inheritance. Challenges in variant interpretation were observed in families with variants in tightly linked genes (COL6A1 and COL6A2), highlighting the role of linkage disequilibrium in founder populations.WES is a highly effective diagnostic strategy for genetically heterogeneous MDs, particularly in consanguineous populations. Our study expands the mutational spectrum of MDs in Iran and provides critical data for genetic counseling, prenatal diagnosis, and future therapeutic development. The high rate of novel variants underscores the importance of population-specific genomic studies.Copyright © 2026 Nasibeh Soltani et al. Human Mutation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains a major global health burden with limited effective therapeutic strategies. Although chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy has shown encouraging potential, its efficacy in HCC is profoundly constrained by the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment.In this study, we performed integrative analyses of HCC transcriptomic and clinical samples data to identify Copine-1 (CPNE1) as potential oncogenic drivers involved in tumor progression and immune suppression. Using functional and mechanistic assays in vitro with HCC cell line models and in vivo with mouse models, we examined the role of CPNE1 in regulating tumor proliferation, stemness, and its contribution to resistance against GPC3-targeted CAR-T cell therapy.We found that CPNE1 is significantly overexpressed in HCC and correlates with poor patient prognosis. Functional assays revealed that CPNE1 enhances tumor proliferation and stemness by activating the STAT3-transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β) signaling pathway. Moreover, CPNE1-induced secretion of TGF-β promotes T-cell exhaustion, which impairs the efficacy of CAR-T cells. Knockdown of CPNE1 restored CAR-T cell function, enhanced T-cell infiltration into tumors, reduced exhaustion, and improved antitumor efficacy without causing systemic toxicity. Clinically, high CPNE1 expression was associated with lower T-cell infiltration and poor outcomes in HCC patients treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors.These findings identify CPNE1 as a critical regulator of HCC progression and immune suppression, highlighting the CPNE1-STAT3-TGF-β axis as a promising therapeutic target in HCC.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a progressive, fatal lung disease driven by fibroblast activation and extracellular matrix deposition. Endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EndMT) critically contributes to vascular injury and fibrotic remodeling in IPF. Legumain (LGMN), a lysosomal cysteine protease involved in excessive extracellular matrix processing and signaling modulation, has been implicated in vascular remodeling and fibrosis. This study aimed to investigate whether LGMN influences pulmonary fibrosis by regulating the EndMT process. Independent transcriptomic analyses revealed LGMN is significantly upregulated in IPF and associated with poor prognosis. Publicly available single-cell RNA sequencing datasets identify endothelial cells as a major source of elevated LGMN in human IPF and murine fibrosis, with LGMN expression positively correlating with disease severity. Our studies demonstrated that LGMN knockdown in endothelial cells inhibited EndMT and enhanced migratory and tube formation capabilities; conversely, LGMN overexpression promoted EndMT and suppressed these functions. Transcriptomic profiling indicated that LGMN knockdown significantly influenced the p38 MAPK signaling pathway. To validate the mechanism, pharmacological inhibition of p38 MAPK reduced EndMT and partially reversed LGMN overexpression-induced EndMT. In conclusion, these results indicate LGMN promotes pulmonary fibrosis by activating the p38 MAPK pathway to regulate EndMT, suggesting its potential as a therapeutic target for pulmonary fibrosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.3389/fmolb.2026.1796488.].Copyright © 2026 Xiao, Kang, Li and Tan.
Mutations in the LMNA gene, which encodes lamin A/C, cause a variety of diseases known as laminopathies. Some mutations are particularly associated with the occurrence of dilated cardiomyopathy and heart failure, but the genotype-phenotype relationship and underlying mechanisms are unclear.Induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) from a patient carrying a LMNA point mutation (c.665A>C, p.His222Pro) and a CRISPR/Cas9 corrected isogenic control hiPSCs clones were differentiated into cardiomyocytes (hiPSC-CMs), with no difference in the differentiation yield and in sarcomere organisation between the two cell lines. However, 3D cardiac organoids generated with LMNA p.H222P hiPSC-CMs showed an impaired contractility compared to control organoids. Calcium transient recordings in LMNA p.H222P mutant cardiomyocytes showed a significantly higher calcium transient amplitude with a significantly slower calcium re-uptake. Transcriptomic analyses suggested a global mitochondrial dysfunction and in particular an impaired mitochondrial calcium uptake with a significantly decreased expression of the mitochondrial calcium uniporter (MCU). This decrease in MCU expression was confirmed by western blot and was accompanied by an increased MICU1:MCU ratio, as well as an increased PDH Ser232 and PDH Ser300 phosphorylation, indicating an altered mitochondrial calcium uptake in the LMNA mutant hiPSC-CMs. Consistently, lower mitochondrial respiration and ATP levels were found in LMNA p.H222P hiPSC-CMs as compared to isogenic controls. Strikingly, treatment with the MCU activator amorolfine restored mitochondrial calcium uptake and improved contractility in LMNA mutant hiPSC-CMs.Our results establish a direct mechanistic link between nuclear envelope dysfunction and impaired mitochondrial function, and highlight the MCU complex as a potential therapeutic target in LMNA-related cardiomyopathy. More broadly, this work provides a paradigm for connecting gene-specific nuclear defects to mitochondrial dysfunction in inherited cardiomyopathies.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Reduced sperm count, impaired motility, and abnormal morphology are characteristics of oligoasthenoteratozoospermia (OAT). Genetic factors play an important role in spermatogenic failure, but the molecular basis of OAT is still not fully understood. Whole-genome sequencing (WGS) was performed in 17 infertile men with normal karyotypes and no Y-chromosome microdeletions, including 10 patients with azoospermia and 7 with OAT. Among the OAT group, three patients carrying prioritized rare variants with potential relevance to spermatogenesis were selected for detailed analysis and presentation in the current study. Variants were called using DeepVariant, and they were annotated by Ensembl Variant Effect Predictor (VEP). Variants were prioritized based on low allele frequency (< 1% in gnomAD), predicted functional impact, relevance to spermatogenesis, and consistency with a recessive inheritance model. Candidate variants were validated by Sanger sequencing and inspection of BAM files. Structural protein modeling and characterization of mutation-induced changes in molecular interactions were also performed using SWISS-MODEL and AlphaFold. We identified a hemizygous splice donor variant (c.*4 + 1G > T) in SSX1 and a missense variant (c.1190 A > G) in CPNE1 in one patient with OAT. SSX1 is a testis-expressed gene, while CPNE1 encodes a calcium-dependent phospholipid-binding protein. In another patient, a stop-gained variant (c.790 C > T) in SPTBN5 was identified, which encodes a spectrin beta chain protein. This study identifies rare candidate variants in SSX1, CPNE1, and SPTBN5 that may potentially be associated with the molecular basis of OAT. These findings provide preliminary evidence supporting further investigation of these genes in OAT and support the application of WGS in unresolved male infertility.© 2026. The Author(s).
Myopathy with extrapyramidal signs (OMIM #615673) is a rare autosomal recessive mitochondrial disorder caused by biallelic loss-of-function variants in Mitochondrial calcium uptake protein 1 ( MICU1 ), which encodes the gatekeeper of the mitochondrial calcium uniporter complex. We report a 7-year-old Indian girl with global developmental delay, congenital nonfatiguable right ptosis, proximal-predominant myopathy without calf hypertrophy, multi-system dysmorphism (elongated facies, baggy cheeks, large prominent ears, partial webbed neck, bilateral clinodactyly, fetal finger pads, pes planus, and sandal gap), and thickened corpus callosum on magnetic resonance imaging. Creatine kinase ranged between 4068 and 4732 U/L; electromyography demonstrated a myogenic pattern with normal nerve conduction and nondecremental repetitive nerve stimulation. Whole-exome sequencing identified a novel homozygous missense variant, c.38T>C (p.Leu13Pro), in exon 1 of MICU1 , classified as a variant of uncertain significance. To our knowledge, this is the first reported pediatric MICU1 case with congenital ptosis, absence of calf hypertrophy, and a structural corpus callosum abnormality, substantially broadening the phenotypic spectrum of MICU1 -related myopathy.Copyright © 2026 Annals of African Medicine.
The incidence of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is the first diabetes in pregnancy and has gradually increased worldwide, increasing the burden of social healthcare systems. In GDM, oxidative stress induced by reactive oxygen species (ROS) can disrupt the integrity of the cell membrane through lipid peroxidation reactions and trigger ferroptosis, further exacerbating pancreatic islet β-cell dysfunction and insulin resistance. Lipid peroxidation products related to ferroptosis (such as malondialdehyde (MDA) and 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE)), along with the decrease in glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) activity, may be involved in the placental oxidative damage and adverse fetal outcomes in GDM, suggesting that targeting the antioxidant pathway or regulating ferroptosis may serve as an intervention strategy. Legumain (LGMN) can serve as novel targets in diabetes mellitus genetic therapy.This study investigated the mechanism and effects of LGMN in GDM.All blood samples of normal or patients with GDM were collected by Beijing Ditan Hospital Affiliated Capital Medical University. C57BL/6J female mice were intraperitoneally injected with streptozotocin. Sh-LGMN virus (20 μg of each) or control vector virus (20 μg of each) was injected into GDM mice. GDM mice randomly assigned to three groups (Number = 10). Sh-LGMN virus (20 μg of each) + HSP90 inhibitor or Sh-LGMN virus (20 μg of each) or control vector virus (20 μg of each) was injected into GDM mice. LGMN or si-LGMN Plasmids were transfected into HepG2 cells using Lipofectamine 2000. HepG2 cells were incubated by different insulin concentrations (100 nmol/L) treatment for 24 h. Microarray analysis, quantitative polymerase chain reaction, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, proliferation assay, ethynyl deoxyuridine staining, bioluminescence imaging, and Western blot were used in this study.Serum LGMN mRNA expression was significantly elevated in patients with GDM. LGMN mRNA and protein expression were also elicited in the liver tissue of GDM mice. LGMN mRNA expression exhibited a positive correlation with Body Mass Index (BMI), fasting plasma glucose, 1-h plasma glucose, or 2-h plasma glucose in patients. Sh-LGMN virus reduced blood glucose levels and body weight, inhibited fasting insulin (FINS) levels and Homeostatic Model Assessment of Beta-cell function (HOMA-β), enhanced Fasting Blood Glucose (FBG)/FINS/Total Cholesterol/Triglycerides levels, improved hepatic fibrosis (HE staining), and also upgraded HbAIc and HOMA-IR in mice of GDM. LGMN exacerbated ROS-induced oxidative stress in the in vitro model of GDM. LGMN promoted ferroptosis in vitro model of GDM. LGMN expanded ROS-induced mitochondrial damage in vitro model of GDM. LGMN inhibited the HSP90/GPX4 Signaling Pathway in the model of GDM. The inhibition of HSP90 reduced LGMN on GDM in the mice model or the in vitro model of GDM. LGMN interlinked with complex protein body of HSP90 and GPX4, which LGMN inhibited the HSP90/GPX4 Signaling Pathway.The LGMN level in patients with GDM was upregulated, and LGMN facilitates ferroptosis by HSP90 and GPX4 in the mice model of GDM and may lead to therapeutic potential of ferroptosis or liver gluconeogenesis in the model of GDM.© 2026 Yingda Yan et al.
Growing evidence links lysosomal dysfunction to parkinsonism. TRPML1, a lysosomal cation channel encoded by the MCOLN1 gene, is essential for lysosomal function. Biallelic loss-of-function variants in MCOLN1 cause mucolipidosis type IV. However, the role of heterozygous MCOLN1 variants remains unclear.Two patients with α-synucleinopathies underwent clinical evaluation and whole-genome sequencing. The functional effects of TRPML1 variants were assessed using immunofluorescence, lysosomal patch-clamp recording, and autophagic flux assay.Two heterozygous MCOLN1 variants were identified: p.E376K in a patient with multiple system atrophy and p.L315del in a patient with early-onset Parkinson's disease. Functional analyses showed that p.L315del disrupted lysosomal localization, and both variants significantly reduced lysosomal currents upon TRPML1 agonist stimulation, with a trend toward impaired autophagic flux, indicating loss of function.These findings demonstrate that both variants impair TRPML1 function in vitro, identifying MCOLN1 as a candidate gene for α-synucleinopathies that warrants further investigation in larger cohorts. © 2026 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.© 2026 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.
Plants dynamically adjust growth in response to short-day (SD) conditions while maintaining reactive oxygen species (ROS) homeostasis across cellular compartments. However, how light signaling is coupled to organelle-specific redox regulation remains poorly understood. Here, we identify the peroxisomal Mpv17/PMP22 family protein REGULATOR OF ROS-MEDIATED HYPOCOTYL ELONGATION 1 (RHE1) as a regulator of short-day-induced hypocotyl elongation and ROS homeostasis in Arabidopsis thaliana. RHE1 expression is associated with a light-responsive G-box element bound by HY5 and shows a strong positive relationship with N6-methyladenosine (m6A) enrichment. Environmental stresses that elevate inferred m6A levels increase RHE1 transcript abundance and stability, whereas short-day conditions reduce m6A enrichment and decrease RHE1 expression. Loss of RHE1 results in enhanced hypocotyl cell elongation and elevated ROS accumulation specifically under short-day conditions, indicating that RHE1 constrains growth through peroxisomal redox regulation. Furthermore, RHE1 transcript levels correlate with the m6A reader ECT2, and published binding datasets support direct association of ECT2 with RHE1 mRNA. Together, these findings reveal a multilayered regulatory mechanism in which HY5-associated transcription and m6A-dependent RNA stabilization converge on RHE1 to coordinate SD-dependent growth with peroxisomal ROS homeostasis. This study uncovers a previously unrecognized connection between SD signaling, epitranscriptomic regulation, and organelle-specific redox control.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Japanese Society of Plant Physiologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Although significant progress has been made in identifying antigen targets in autoimmune encephalitis (AIE), in a substantial proportion of patients with presumed AIE no known autoantibodies can be detected. Herein, we describe a novel autoantibody reactivity, directed against copine-5 (CPNE5), in patients with AIE and melanoma.Patients were identified through routine clinical testing for anti-neural autoantibodies by indirect immunofluorescence on neuronal tissue sections. The antigen was identified by immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry and confirmed by recombinant protein assays.Serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) immunoglobulin G (IgG) from four patients was found to exhibit distinct binding to cerebellar and hippocampal neurons. Copine-5 was identified as the target antigen. Clinical manifestations included cognitive decline, confusion/disorientation, psychosis, seizures and signs and symptoms compatible with basal ganglia involvement (movement disorders, including secondary parkinsonism, and/or abulia/akinetic mutism), alongside pain (including painful tonic spasms and focal allodynia), dysarthria, dysphagia, and abducens nerve palsy. Brain magnetic resonance imaging disclosed hyperintense lesions in the basal ganglia and the temporal lobe. CSF analysis revealed mild pleocytosis, intrathecal IgG synthesis, and blood/CSF barrier dysfunction. Of particular note, all four patients had melanoma, with an occult primary in three. In one patient, melanoma diagnosis and immunotherapy with the anti-PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitor nivolumab preceded the onset of AIE by 9 months. Glucocorticoid treatment and/or intravenous immunoglobulins led to transient improvement in at least three patients; however, all relapsed and three progressed to hypoactive delirium or mutism. Plasma exchange and cyclophosphamide treatment were followed by clinical improvement and stabilization in one patient, but potentially contributed to fatal infectious complications. Copine-5-IgG belonged to the strongly complement-activating IgG1 subclass and was produced intrathecally. Serum titers ranged between 1:1000 and 1:100,000.Copine-5 is a novel autoantibody target in AIE. Testing for anti-copine-5 autoantibodies should be included in the diagnostic workup of patients with AIE, especially, but not exclusively, if associated with melanoma or positive melanoma-associated tumor markers. Further studies investigating the immunopathogenesis of copine-5-related autoimmunity and the potential significance of anti-copine-5 as a novel paraneoplastic serological marker and of copine-5 as a histopathological tumor marker in patients with suspected melanoma are highly warranted.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lung cancer remains the leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide, and long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been implicated in its tumourigenesis and progression. However, the roles lncRNAs play in lung cancer remain unclear. In this study, we discovered an important role for the lncRNA MNX1 Antisense RNA 1 (MNX1-AS1) as a critical regulator of one-carbon metabolism reprogramming. Glutamine depletion altered chromatin accessibility, leading to downregulation of MNX1-AS1, while elevated expression of MNX1-AS1 was correlated with poor prognosis in patients with non-small cell lung cancer. Functional studies showed that MNX1-AS1 promoted cell proliferation and sphere formation in vitro, and subcutaneous and orthotopic tumour growth in vivo. Mechanistically, MNX1-AS1 directly binds to calcyclin binding protein (CACYBP), protecting it from ubiquitin-mediated degradation; thus, the MNX1-AS1/CACYBP complex accelerates the transcription of key one-carbon metabolism-related genes through the Wnt/β-catenin pathway. MNX1-AS1/CACYBP/β-catenin axis upregulated key one-carbon metabolism-related genes, which were essential for generating related metabolites and maintaining cellular redox balance to support lung cancer cell proliferation. These findings established that the lncRNA MNX1-AS1 acts as a crucial driver of one-carbon metabolism reprogramming in non-small cell lung cancer and highlight that the newly identified MNX1-AS1/CACYBP/β-catenin axis may serve as a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for lung cancer intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) exhibits marked molecular heterogeneity and diverse clinical outcomes, partly influenced by HPV status and the tumor immune microenvironment. Although tumor doubling time (TDT) reflects tumor growth kinetics and has prognostic relevance, its molecular basis in HNSCC remains unclear.Single-cell RNA-seq data from GSE164690 were integrated with bulk transcriptomic datasets from TCGA-HNSC, GSE41613, GSE65858, and ICGC. We identified 21 tumor doubling time-related genes (TDTRGs), evaluated their cell type-specific enrichment using UCell, and defined molecular subtypes by consensus clustering. Immune infiltration was assessed by ssGSEA and CIBERSORT. A prognostic model was developed using 117 machine-learning algorithm combinations in the Mime1 package and further evaluated by single-cell visualization, cell cycle scoring, pseudotime analysis, drug sensitivity prediction, and molecular docking.A single-cell atlas comprising 17 cell populations was constructed. TDTRGs were mainly enriched in cycling T cells and epithelial cells and showed HPV-related expression differences. Two molecular subtypes were identified; C2 was associated with poorer progression-free interval (P = 0.001) and enrichment of MET and integrin signaling. A seven-gene signature-CCBE1, MAD2L1, ECT2, BIRC5, ITGA6, ESM1, and NUF2-showed robust prognostic performance across independent cohorts and outperformed 73 published signatures. Single-cell and pseudotime analyses confirmed cell type-specific and dynamic regulation. Venetoclax was predicted as a potential therapeutic candidate, with docking energies below -9 kcal·mol⁻¹.This study defines TDTRG-related heterogeneity in HNSCC and establishes a robust seven-gene prognostic signature, providing potential biomarkers and therapeutic insights for personalized management.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) shows extensive lineage plasticity and early metastatic dissemination, but the oncogenic events that actively drive these processes remain poorly defined. Here, we identify coordinated PRKCI and ECT2 copy number gain, present in approximately 30% of human LUADs, as a driver of developmental reprogramming and metastasis. Using a genetically engineered mouse model that recapitulates PRKCI-ECT2 gain in Kras/Trp53-driven LUAD, we show that elevated PKCι-ECT2 signaling rewires tumor trajectory in a cell-of-origin-dependent manner. Alveolar type II cell-derived tumors dedifferentiate into a distal SOX9high progenitor-like state associated with aggressive growth and liver metastasis, whereas club cell-derived tumors transition into a foregut SOX2high progenitor-like state that supports lineage infidelity and histological transformation. Human LUAD analyses support these progenitor programs as clinically relevant features of PRKCI-ECT2 gain.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
N1-methyladenosine (m1A) is a recently identified mRNA methylation mark that affects gene expression and translation. In the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana, its landscape and function remain uncharacterized. Here we present base-resolution m1A methylomes across diverse Arabidopsis tissues and show that m1A is enriched in the 5' untranslated region and preferentially localizes to highly expressed genes, negatively correlating with mRNA translation. We demonstrate that TRM6 and TRM61 form the m1A methyltransferase complex and interact with ATH3 to regulate m1A levels. Notably, we identify previously unknown m1A readers, including CP33B and ECT2. Functional analyses reveal that m1A is intricately involved in abscisic acid (ABA) signalling and that knockout or knockdown of key genes in m1A RNA methylation causes ABA hypersensitivity. Collectively, our findings establish m1A as a dynamic epitranscriptomic mark, highlighting its critical role in regulating the ABA signalling pathway.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Extrachromosomal circular DNA (eccDNA), characterized by abundant amplicons and high chromatin accessibility, contributes to tumor heterogeneity and transcriptional activity; however, its single-cell dynamics in cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (CSCC) remain poorly understood. Here, we developed a single-cell framework eccDNAscope that reconstructs eccDNA structures and infers clonal trajectories from scATAC-seq data. Integrative analysis of 154,624 single cells revealed that eccDNAs were broadly distributed across diverse cell types but exhibited striking enrichment at promoter regions (79.94%), where they were associated with elevated expression of cell type-specific eccDNA-associated genes. The framework identified both known oncogenic eccDNAs (MYC) and previously unrecognized eccDNAs (PTMA, NRP2, and KLF7), which were independently validated by DNA fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), super-resolution microscopy, Immuno-FISH, and Circle-seq. These eccDNAs displayed enhanced transcriptional activity in the epithelial cell populations in which they were detected. We further identified CSCC-specific eccDNAs that were enriched in cell cycle-related pathways, including CACYBP, which was exclusively detected in CSCC, but was not observed in actinic keratosis (AK) or para-tumor tissues. Finally, eccDNA-based phylogenetic reconstruction identified conserved and tissue-specific eccDNA programs during disease evolution, and highlighted recurrent eccDNAs, particularly PTMA and CACYBP, as potential drivers of CSCC progression. Collectively, our single-cell analysis provides a framework for dissecting eccDNA-mediated oncogenesis and offers insights into therapeutic strategies targeting eccDNA-positive clones in cancer.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Biliary atresia (BA) is the leading cause of cholestatic liver disease and cirrhosis in infancy. Currently, there is a lack of efficient biomarkers for early diagnosis and prognostic evaluation of this disease, which urgently needs to be addressed. This study aimed to screen and validate key biomarkers closely associated with BA liver fibrosis progression and prognosis through bioinformatics analysis combined with clinical sample verification.First, the public transcriptomic dataset GSE122340 was thoroughly analyzed to screen differentially expressed genes, followed by construction of a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network. Epithelial cell transforming sequence 2 (ECT2) was ultimately identified as the core hub gene. Subsequently, clinical samples were collected, including 20 cases in the BA group (stratified by liver fibrosis severity) and 10 cases in the choledochal cyst control group. The expression level of ECT2 was clinically verified using immunohistochemistry, real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was performed to validate the predictive efficacy of serum ECT2 level for BA diagnosis, fibrosis stratification, and postoperative native liver survival. Kaplan-Meier (KM) curve analysis was used to verify the relationship between serum ECT2 level and postoperative native liver survival.ECT2 was significantly highly expressed in liver tissue (both mRNA and protein levels) and serum of BA patients, and its expression intensity was positively correlated with the severity of liver fibrosis. ROC curve analysis showed that serum ECT2 exhibited favorable efficacy in BA diagnosis, liver fibrosis stratification, and prediction of 2-year postoperative native liver survival, with area under the curve (AUC) values of 0.906, 0.807, and 0.844.Compared with MMP7, it demonstrates comparable predictive performance in the diagnosis of BA (AUC = 0.924) and the stratification of liver fibrosis (AUC = 0.829), and outperforms MMP7 in predicting autologous liver survival (AUC = 0.767). Its overall predictive performance is superior to that of traditional liver function markers (GGT, TBIL, TBA). Kaplan-Meier survival analysis further confirmed that BA patients with high serum ECT2 expression had significantly reduced native liver survival rates postoperatively.This study systematically demonstrates that ECT2 is characteristically highly expressed in BA and its association with disease fibrosis severity and poor prognosis. Preliminary findings suggest that serum ECT2 as a promising non-invasive biomarker, providing new technical approaches and theoretical basis for clinical diagnosis, disease assessment, and prognostic judgment of BA.© 2026 Chen, Li, Yang, Meng, Abudureyimu and Zhan.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a highly lethal malignancy with a dismal prognosis, characterized by an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment and rapid development of chemoresistance. The present study investigated the histamine receptor H1 (HRH1), a G protein-coupled receptor, and its functional interplay with the transcriptional coactivator YAP1, a known driver of PDAC progression. Through integrated multi-omics analysis of data from TCGA, ICGC and GEO cohorts, the present study found that HRH1 was consistently overexpressed in PDAC, and its expression correlated with poor prognosis. Mendelian randomization analysis further suggested a causal relationship between the use of fexofenadine, an HRH1 antagonist, and a reduced risk of PDAC. Mechanistically, the present study identified a positive feedback loop in which HRH1 stabilizes and activates YAP1 signaling, while YAP1 knockdown downregulates HRH1 transcription, potentially through direct binding to the HRH1 promoter region. The present study constructed a prognostic model based on the HRH1-YAP1 axis by integrating a panel of 101 machine learning algorithms. The model, which includes HRH1, YAP1, ECT2, ITGB5, SHCBP1, MAML2, YWHAZ and ITGA2, effectively stratified patients into groups with differential risk. Patients in the high-risk group exhibited characteristics associated with worse outcomes, including KRAS mutations, chemoresistance, an immunosuppressive microenvironment and reduced responsiveness to immunotherapy. The present study establishes HRH1 as a novel therapeutic target in PDAC and proposes the repurposing of fexofenadine as a promising strategy to disrupt the oncogenic HRH1-YAP1 feedback loop.Copyright: © 2026 Chen and Wen.
Diabetic sudomotor dysfunction, one of the most prevalent complications of diabetic neuropathy (DN), is characterized by impaired sweating due to degenerative changes in sweat glands (SGs) and associated neurovascular networks. Despite its clinical significance, effective treatments remain elusive. Here, we present a multifunctional nanozyme-based platform, Au@Pt coated with ethanolamine-functionalized poly(glycidyl methacrylate) (PGEA), yielding Au@Pt-PGEA (APP), for the efficient delivery of therapeutic nerve growth factor (NGF)-encoding mRNA to modulate the pathological microenvironment and restore SG function. APP exhibits glucose oxidase-like catalytic activity, reactive oxygen species scavenging, oxygen generation, and electroactive properties, collectively reducing oxidative stress and improving the biochemical conditions that constrain tissue repair. When complexed with Ngf mRNA, the resulting APP/Ngf mRNA complex (APPN) promotes endothelial angiogenic responses, induces repair-associated activation of Schwann cells, and enhances neurite outgrowth in vitro. In a late-stage DN murine model, APPN treatment significantly increases perfusion and sweat output, enhances neurovascular reconstruction, and restores SG structural and functional markers. Transcriptomic profiling further reveals APPN-mediated shifts toward reduced inflammatory programs and enhanced pathways linked to oxidative metabolism, tissue regeneration, and peripheral nervous system development. This work establishes a combined strategy for diabetic sudomotor dysfunction through multifunctional nanozyme-mediated gene therapy, underscoring its clinical potential in regenerative medicine.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Interoception, the capacity to sense, perceive, and metacognitively appraise viscerosensory and homeostatic signals, is a growing focus in psychology and psychiatry. Adaptive psychophysical tasks now allow quantification of perceptual sensitivity, bias, and precision in cardiac and respiratory domains. However, accurately estimating these parameters often requires large numbers of trials or participants, posing practical challenges, especially in clinical research where participant availability and tolerance are limited. One approach to reduce participant burden while maintaining statistical rigor is to optimize data analysis. Here, we present hierarchical Bayesian models tailored for cardiac and respiratory interoceptive psychophysics that efficiently estimate sensitivity, bias, and precision at both individual and group levels. Using simulations and empirical data, we validate these models and demonstrate that they allow enhanced inference relative to conventional approaches. To support adoption, we provide openly accessible resources, including a tutorial on implementing and fitting these models in R (written with researchers without modeling expertise in mind) and an app for sample-size justification. These tools facilitate robust, efficient, and generalizable modeling of interoceptive performance, enabling rigorous studies even with limited trials or participant availability.© 2026. The Author(s).
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is increasingly associated with early circuit dysfunction preceding cognitive decline, including neuronal hyperactivity and neuropsychiatric symptoms linked to mesolimbic pathways. The nucleus accumbens (NAc), a central regulator of reward and motivational processing, exhibits early alterations in excitation/inhibition balance in patients and experimental models, yet the synaptic mechanisms underlying its vulnerability remain unclear. Using a double transgenic APP/PS1 mice crossed with a Drd1a-tdTomato reporter line, we combined cell-type-specific electrophysiology, immunohistochemistry, ex vivo photometry, and behavioral assays. At a pre-plaque stage, intraneuronal Aβ accumulated in both dopamine D1 receptor-positive (D1R+) and D1R-negative medium spiny neurons (MSNs). Despite comparable Aβ levels, both high-frequency stimulation-induced long-term depression (LTD) and mGluR1/5-dependent LTD were selectively impaired in D1R+ MSNs. This vulnerability was accompanied by an increased contribution of calcium-permeable AMPA receptors (CP-AMPARs). Subsequent CP-AMPAR blockade reduced the residual evoked excitatory postsynaptic current that persisted after mGluR1/5 activation in APP/PS1 D1R+ MSNs. Because paired-pulse ratios remained unchanged, this residual response was consistent with a predominantly postsynaptic mechanism. These synaptic changes were accompanied by reduced evoked dopamine signaling, increased chocolate consumption, and altered baseline context preference, whereas standard pellet consumption, conditioned place preference, anxiety-like behavior, and social behavior were unchanged. These findings define a pre-plaque, cell-type-specific synaptic phenotype in male APP/PS1 mice in which impaired mGluR1/5-dependent plasticity and persistent CP-AMPAR signaling in D1R+ MSNs coincide with selective reward-related alterations.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
BackgroundChronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is a globally burdensome chronic disease characterized by persistent respiratory symptoms and progressive airflow limitation, which severely impairs patients' quality of life and prognosis. Effective self-management is crucial for COPD management, as targeted self-management interventions have been shown to improve disease outcomes. Digital health technologies (DHTs) offer an innovative approach to address the challenges of traditional self-management and provide sustainable support for patients' long-term disease management. However, existing digital interventions for COPD commonly face several major challenges, including low user engagement, poor long-term adherence, and high participant withdrawal rates, highlighting an urgent need for optimized digital solutions.ObjectiveThis study aimed to develop a user-centered mobile application tailored to meet self-management needs of patients with COPD under the guidance of the Centre for eHealth and Wellbeing Research (CeHRes) Roadmap and persuasive system design (PSD) principles, as well as to evaluate its usability performance.MethodsThe development of the COPD Digital Health Self-Management System (COPD DHSS) was guided by the CeHRes Roadmap.The process commenced with a comprehensive literature review, semi-structured interviews involving fifteen COPD patients and five healthcare providers, and expert panel discussions (n=7) to identify challenges in COPD self-management and define the key values for the DHTs into self-management protocols. Based on these key values, the research team identified PSD features. These PSD features were integrated with COPD self-management evidence synthesis and were utilized to inform the design of the COPD DHSS prototype. A mixed-methods evaluation was employed: Sixteen COPD patients were recruited to test the COPD DHSS. After one month of system deployment, the System Usability Scale (SUS) was administered to evaluate usability metrics. Participants subsequently engaged in focus group discussions to provide feedback on user experience.ResultsA User-Centered Mobile Application for COPD was successfully developed through a structured process. The system integrated patient self-reported data with evidence-based best practices for COPD self-management, generating personalized recommendations to enhance patients' self-management capabilities and improve disease prognosis and quality of life. Usability testing was conducted with 16 COPD patients, whose average age was 71.5 (±6.9) years. Of these participants, 14 (87.5%) maintained twice-weekly app usage throughout the evaluation period. The median SUS score was 76.25(66.88, 83.13),indicating an acceptable level of usability. User feedback consistently indicated that the COPD DHSS demonstrated favorable usability characteristics.ConclusionsIntegrating the CeHRes Roadmap with PSD principles, this study successfully developed a usable, user-centered mobile application tailored to the self-management needs of older patients with COPD. It also demonstrates how a structured, theory-driven approach can translate patient and stakeholder insights into a practical digital tool that is both acceptable and usable for this target population. It can serve as a paradigm for applying mobile health technology in chronic disease self-management.
Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae (APP) causes porcine contagious pleuropneumonia (PCP), a highly contagious respiratory disease that inflicts substantial economic losses to the global swine industry. Given the high serotypic diversity of APP and limited cross-protective efficacy of current vaccines, novel candidates are urgently needed. In contrast to commercial APP vaccines relying on formalin-inactivated native Apx toxoids, and to experimental antigens that frequently use truncated Apx fragments or proteins refolded from insoluble inclusion bodies, this study successfully expressed full-length, soluble recombinant ApxIA and ApxIIA. These novel recombinant antigens were combined with inactivated APP serotype 1 to construct an inactivated whole-cell subunit combination vaccine, designated BAA. Its protective efficacy against multiple APP serotypes was evaluated in a porcine challenge model. The BAA vaccine showed a favorable safety profile. Compared with control and toxin-free inactivated bacterial vaccine (Bac) groups, BAA-immunized pigs exhibited significantly higher levels of specific antibodies against ApxIA, ApxIIA, and bacterial antigens. After challenge with APP serotypes 1, 3, 5, and 7, BAA-vaccinated pigs achieved survival rates of 100%, 80%, 80%, and 100%, respectively, with milder clinical signs, reduced lung lesions, and significantly lower pulmonary bacterial loads than other groups. Histopathology confirmed markedly alleviated pulmonary pathology in BAA-vaccinated pigs. These results indicate that the BAA vaccine confers robust cross-protection against heterologous APP serotypes and is a promising candidate for PCP prevention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Serious digital games have been proposed as a novel approach to support diabetes education and self-management, but evidence regarding their effectiveness remains limited.This study aimed to evaluate the effects of SugarVita, a serious game for people with type 2 diabetes, on diabetes-related knowledge, self-confidence, and self-management. Secondary outcomes included hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), engagement, and user evaluation.In this pilot randomized controlled trial, 30 adults with type 2 diabetes were randomized to SugarVita plus standard care or standard care alone for 8 weeks. Outcomes were assessed before and after the intervention using validated questionnaires and laboratory HbA1c values. Within-group changes were analyzed using Wilcoxon signed-rank tests and between-group differences using Mann-Whitney U tests. Bonferroni correction was applied for multiple primary outcomes.No statistically significant between-group differences were observed for diabetes-related knowledge, self-confidence, or self-management after correction for multiple testing. Both groups showed numerical improvements over time. HbA1c decreased significantly within the intervention group (median 73.0, IQR 70.8-81.5 to median 64.5, IQR 60.8-72.0 mmol/mol; P=.007), whereas no significant change was observed in the control group. Greater total playtime was moderately associated with HbA1c reduction. User evaluations indicated high perceived educational value.Participants reported positive experiences with SugarVita and perceived the game as educational and user-friendly. No statistically significant between-group differences were observed for the primary outcomes. These findings support the feasibility and acceptability of SugarVita as a digital educational intervention and warrant further evaluation in larger studies.© Edouard Reinders, Elma Cruts - Van de Meulengraaf, Ryan De Vries, Natal van Riel, Pieter Van Gorp, Jeanne Dieleman, Pleun Wouters - van Poppel, Harm Haak. Originally published in JMIR Diabetes (https://diabetes.jmir.org).
Cancer-related posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is prevalent among hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) survivors, yet access to evidence-based care is limited. This study evaluated adaptive, stepped-care treatment sequences for PTSD symptoms using a Sequential Multiple Assignment Randomized Trial (SMART), comparing digital and therapist-delivered interventions.HCT survivors (N = 477), 1-5 years post-transplant, with probable or subthreshold PTSD, were randomized to the Cancer Distress Coach (CaDC) app or Usual Care. At Week 4, non-responders (i.e., < 5-point PCL-5 reduction) were re-randomized to CaDC + Coaching or therapist-delivered cognitive behavioral therapy for PTSD (CBT-PTSD). PTSD symptoms (primary outcome), depression, and anxiety were assessed at baseline, Week 4, Month 3 (primary endpoint), and Month 6.Both initial treatment groups demonstrated symptom reductions at Week 4 with no significant between-group differences; approximately 60% met early response criteria. By Month 3, outcomes reflected treatment escalation rather than direct comparison of initial interventions. Regimen-level analyses demonstrated differences across adaptive sequences for PTSD at Months 3 and 6, and for depression and anxiety at Month 3 (global p-values ≤ 0.018). Regimens escalating to CBT-PTSD were associated with greater and more sustained reductions than those escalating to CaDC + Coaching. The sequence initiating with CaDC and escalating to CBT-PTSD produced the largest effects.Although a self-guided digital intervention did not outperform Usual Care initially, adaptive stepped-care strategies that triage early responders and escalate non-responders to therapist-delivered CBT-PTSD were associated with the greatest reductions in symptoms. Digital tools may function as entry points within stepped-care models to allocate higher-intensity psychotherapy.ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT04058795, registered 8/16/2019.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining and training of artificial intelligence technologies or similar technologies.
IntroductionPeople with head and neck cancers (HNC) face significant practical, functional and psychosocial barriers to supportive care, including peer support. Peer navigation may help address these challenges. This study examined the needs and preferences of patients with HNC for peer support and peer navigation.MethodsA cross-sectional survey was administered in clinic and by email to patients with HNC at a Canadian cancer centre. Descriptive statistics summarized peer support and peer navigation needs and preferences. Univariable and multivariable analyses examined factors associated with interest in receiving and providing peer navigation.ResultsParticipants (n=170) were on average 59 years of age (SD=13.1) and 3.2 years post-diagnosis (SD=3.4); 73.4% were male. Half of participants (n=82, 49.7%) were interested in connecting with other HNC patients at some point since diagnosis; 37.5% (n=62) had connected, and 21.5% (n=35) received peer support. Common barriers included social media privacy concerns (62%) and inconvenience of in-person programs (51%). Interest in support from a peer cancer survivor or navigator was highest before or during treatment (61%) and post-treatment (55%), and lowest in survivorship (∼20%), but increased to 47% if offered through a digital app; 43% were interested in being peer navigators. Preferred matching characteristics included cancer, treatments, specific concerns, disease stage, and age at diagnosis. Older age (p=0.02) and anxiety (p=0.02) were associated with interest in receiving peer navigation, and greater social support with being a peer navigator (p=0.02).ConclusionAmong patients with HNC surveyed, half wanted to connect with other peers, about one-third did, and only one in five received peer support. Technology-mediated peer navigation may reduce access barriers and warrants further study.
The aim of this study was to determine whether and what air quality index products that children with asthma and their caregivers use and whether healthcare providers discuss outdoor air pollution as an asthma trigger or risk reduction strategies.A questionnaire was administered to participants in The Transcript/Omics for Precision Medicine in Asthma Study, an observational study of transcriptomic profiles and severe asthma exacerbations in youth aged 6-21 years, recruited from 2023 to 2025. The Wilcoxon rank sum or chi-square test was used for bivariate analyses.Most caregivers (75%) were aware of alerts or an air quality index and reported learning about or checking it prior to going outdoors (64%), and most reported a behavior change (73%). The most common air quality index source was a phone app (75%, a weather app was most common), followed by TV, radio, or social media alerts (44%) or internet website (24%), with fewer reporting county services (14%). Few reported having discussions with a healthcare provider (41%), and fewer reported receiving recommendations during poor air quality (35%).Children with asthma and their families report frequently using air quality information to make outdoor activity changes, most often using a weather app; however, they less often report discussing outdoor air pollution as an asthma trigger or recommendations for avoidance with healthcare providers.© 2026 The Author(s).
Patients facing cancer diagnoses must navigate fragmented information spanning prognosis, clinical research opportunities, and genomics-informed therapy. CancerStop.dev is a React-based web platform that consolidates trusted public resources into a single patient-centered interface to support informed decision-making. The platform's built-in ComboReg module presents interactive relative survival estimates up to 10 years after diagnosis by modeling (combined regression) age-at-diagnosis and stage-at-diagnosis using publicly available data from the SEER Program. Users can adjust an age slider and view stage-specific curves, enabling individualized and comprehensible visualizations of survivorship trends. A Clinical Trials module links directly to ClinicalTrials.gov, providing context-aware queries and free-form keyword filtering (e.g., mutations, investigational agents) to surface ongoing studies. The Genes & More module connects to NCBI ClinVar for variant-level insights, facilitating precision medicine exploration when genetic testing results are available. An Approved Drugs module routes to the National Cancer Institute resources listing FDA-approved agents relevant to specific cancers, aiding therapy literacy. A curated search tool (PresciQure) complements these features by streamlining access to the biomedical literature, package inserts of FDA-approved drugs, and related oncology resources. The platform is non-prescriptive, emphasizes transparency regarding data provenance and limitations, and is positioned to incorporate additional cancer types, demographic stratifications, and multi-omic resources. CancerStop.dev aims to empower patients, caregivers, and clinicians with timely, integrated, and navigable information, thereby strengthening their advocacy and encouraging participation in research and precision care.© 2026 Ramji, Muralitharan, Janakiraman and Ganesan.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains the leading cause of dementia worldwide, and beta-secretase 1 (BACE1) remains a high-priority target for reducing amyloid-beta production. Nobiletin, a polymethoxylated flavonoid from citrus peel, has reported neuroprotective and amyloid-lowering effects in AD models, and previous enzymatic work suggested weak BACE1 inhibition; however, its replica-level binding stability and residue-level energetic determinants remain unresolved. Here, we analyzed the nobiletin-BACE1 complex using ChEMBL-based chemical-space contextualization, qualitative QSAR uncertainty assessment, molecular docking, triplicate 200-ns all-atom molecular dynamics simulations, molecular mechanics generalized Born surface area (MM-GBSA) end-point scoring, residue-level decomposition, ProLIF interaction fingerprints, electrostatic surface analysis, and a same-protocol OM99-2 structural control. The ligand remained locally accommodated within the BACE1 cleft across the sampled trajectories, with a mean internal MM-GBSA score (DeltaG_bind) of - 15.71 +/- 0.76 kcal/mol (n = 3: - 14.20, - 16.35, and - 16.57 kcal/mol). Residue-level decomposition identified ARG128 as the dominant computed hotspot (total mean = - 11.13 +/- 0.38 kcal/mol), with favorable van der Waals (VDW mean = - 6.88 +/- 0.21 kcal/mol) and Coulombic (Coulomb mean = - 4.25 +/- 0.53 kcal/mol) components. Additional hydrophobic/aromatic packing involved VAL69, TYR71, PRO70, PHE38, and PRO129, while ASP32/ASP228 were positioned outside the dominant nobiletin contact pattern. Together, these results support a putative ARG128-associated, non-dyad-dominant catalytic-cleft recognition model that should be interpreted as a hypothesis-generating computational framework for future biochemical testing and scaffold optimization.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Artificial water channels (AWCs) that replicate the high efficiency and selectivity of natural aquaporins are of considerable interest for desalination, water purification, and biomedical applications, yet the simultaneous realization of high permeability and perfect selectivity remains challenging. Herein, we report a class of self-assembled AWCs based on an imide cyclophane. Single-crystal analysis reveals that macrocycle 1 features an internal cavity of 3.5 Å × 6.3 Å, with a narrow constriction closely matching the dimensions of the selectivity filter of aquaporin 1. The assembled channel (1)4 exhibits a single-channel water transport rate of up to 3.9 × 109 H2O s-1, corresponding to approximately 36% of AQP1 and representing one of the best-performing small-molecule self-assembled AWCs reported to date. Notably, it completely excludes NaCl, KCl, and protons. This work demonstrates that both the key structural feature and function of aquaporins can be emulated through a bottom-up supramolecular approach, providing a platform for the design of high-performance biomimetic membranes and channel-based therapeutics.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) features Aβ-driven neuroinflammation and synaptic dysfunction that converge on cognitive decline, underscoring the potential value of multi-target interventions. Aurantio-obtusin (AO), a bioactive anthraquinone from Cassia obtusifolia L., exhibits reported anti-inflammatory and antioxidant activities; however, whether AO counteracts Aβ-associated behavioral impairment through coordinated modulation of inflammatory and synaptic alterations remains unclear. Here, we investigated whether AO alleviates Aβ₁₋₄₂-induced cognitive deficits and examined synapse- and inflammation-related molecular correlates. Male C57BL/6 mice received intracerebroventricular Aβ₁₋₄₂ to establish an acute AD-like model and were treated with AO (10 mg/kg/day, oral gavage) for consecutive weeks. The results showed that AO improved spatial learning and memory in the Morris water maze, recognition memory in the novel object recognition test, and working memory in the Y-maze, without affecting spontaneous locomotor activity. Furthermore, AO alleviated synaptic dysfunction by restoring synaptophysin expression and upregulating GAD65, and mitigated neuroinflammation by elevating anti-inflammatory factors (IL-4, IL-10, ARG1) and reducing TNF-α. In vitro experiments confirmed that AO was non-cytotoxic to N2AAPP cells across 0-80 μM, mildly downregulated BACE1 expression, and suppressed the Aβ-induced upregulation of pro-inflammatory mediators (IL-6, iNOS) in BV2 microglial cells. Overall, AO attenuated Aβ1-42-driven behavioral impairment in parallel with improvements in synapse-associated markers and inflammatory readouts. These findings support further evaluation of AO as a natural compound associated with modulation of Aβ-related neuroinflammatory and synapse-associated alterations.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
In contemporary practice, elevated 24-hour urinary copper excretion (24-h UCE) often triggers referral for suspected Wilson disease (WD). In this hypercupriuric referral setting, interpretation of 24-h UCE may be distorted by spectrum effects. In this study, we aimed to compare conventional copper biomarkers in hypercupriuric referrals and evaluate whether a Leipzig-aligned ceruloplasmin (Cp) framework could provide a clinically useful triage approach.We retrospectively studied consecutive, untreated patients evaluated for suspected WD with hypercupriuria between February 2017 and February 2025. The final diagnosis was established using a prespecified Leipzig-based algorithm, with ATP7B testing when indicated. Diagnostic performance of Cp and 24-h UCE was compared. A prespecified Cp three-zone framework was evaluated using <0.10 g/L, 0.10-0.20 g/L, and >0.20 g/L as high-probability, indeterminate, and low-probability zones, respectively.Among 541 untreated hypercupriuric patients, 65 had WD and 476 had adjudicated non-WD liver disease. Cp outperformed 24-h UCE for diagnosing WD (AUROC, 0.988 vs. 0.762). The optimal Cp cutoff was 0.15 g/L, with 90.8% sensitivity and 97.7% specificity. Cp < 0.10 g/L defined a high-probability zone with 98.0% WD prevalence, whereas Cp > 0.20 g/L defined a low-probability zone with 0.5% WD prevalence. Among non-WD controls, higher urinary copper was independently associated with higher bilirubin, prolonged international normalized ratio, and lower albumin.In hypercupriuric referrals for suspected WD, Cp retained strong diagnostic performance and outperformed 24-h UCE. A Leipzig-aligned Cp three-zone framework may support probability-based triage in contemporary referral practice.© 2026 Authors.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552063 is a review article
Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains a formidable global health challenge, driving the urgent need for potent and selective therapeutics targeting β-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1), a key enzyme involved in the generation of amyloid-β (Aβ) peptide and a promising target for disease-modifying interventions. In this work, approximately 16 million small molecules from diverse databases were subjected to ligand-based virtual screening (LBVS), using LY3202626 as a reference compound, to identify new potent inhibitors of BACE1. LY3202626 is a highly potent, central nervous system (CNS) penetrant BACE1 inhibitor (IC50 = 0.615 nM) that has progressed to clinical trials, demonstrating efficacy at low doses against BACE1 activity. The lead candidates identified using ensemble molecular docking displayed stronger binding affinities (-11.2 to -9.6 kcal mol-1) to BACE1 as compared to LY3202626. Notably, molecular mechanics Poisson-Boltzmann surface area (MM-PBSA) analysis revealed high-affinity binding of ChEMBL3667410 (C1), ChEMBL3667414 (C2), and ChEMBL3976114 (C5) with binding affinities of -32.9 ± 0.8, -33.6 ± 1.8, and -36.1 ± 1.7 kcal mol-1, respectively, to BACE1 as compared to LY3202626 (-29.9 ± 1.8 kcal mol-1). Furthermore, MD simulations demonstrated enhanced structural stability and reduced residual fluctuations in BACE1 on the incorporation of C1, C2, and C5, as compared to apo-BACE1 and BACE1-LY3202626. Interestingly, the conformational snapshots, flap distances, and free energy landscape (FEL) analyses highlighted a closed flap, Val67-Glu77 (non-active) conformation in BACE1-C5 in comparison to an open flap (active) conformation in apo-BACE1, and partial restriction in the access to the active site of BACE1 due to the flap movement noticed in the presence of LY3202626, C1, and C2. Notably, conformational microstate analysis revealed key hydrogen bond interactions of C5 with the 10s loop (Gly11, Gly13), flap residues (Trp76), the catalytic residue (Asp228), Gly230, and Thr231 of BACE1, depicting its high-affinity binding to key residues of BACE1 and its potential as an effective inhibitor of BACE1 activity. The comprehensive in silico methodology in this work illuminated the inhibitory mechanism of LY3202626 and top hit compounds against BACE1 activity for the first time, which, in turn, will be highly valuable in further optimization and structural refinement using various functional group modifications to yield more potent next-generation therapeutic candidates against BACE1 in AD.
The aim of this study was to compare, using ELISA, plasma levels of amyloid beta (Aβ)40, Aβ42, beta-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE-1), total tau (t-tau), and phosphorylated tau (p-tau), as well as the Aβ42/Aβ40 ratio, between patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and healthy controls, and to evaluate their diagnostic performance in relation to demographic and lifestyle factors.This study is a single-center, cross-sectional, case-control study. Twenty-four individuals diagnosed with AD and 37 healthy volunteers included in the study. Alongside the analysis of plasma samples obtained from the participants, demographic data were analyzed to assess the potential influence of lifestyle and environmental factors on disease development.Analysis of the case data showed that increasing age was a risk factor for AD, higher education level was associated with an increased risk of AD, and tea consumption was inversely associated with AD. While age is a well-known risk factor, both the increased risk of AD associated with higher education and the relatively protective effect of tea consumption against AD are supported by the literature. Evaluation of the levels of Aβ40, Aβ42, BACE-1, t-tau, and p-tau and of the Aβ42/Aβ40 ratio revealed no significant differences between the patient and control groups. Additionally, Aβ40, Aβ42, BACE-1 showed correlations in both the control and Alzheimer's groups, whereas t-tau did not.None of the investigated plasma biomarkers (Aβ40, Aβ42, BACE-1, t-tau, p-tau, and the Aβ42/Aβ40 ratio) discriminated Alzheimer's patients from healthy controls, with all receiver operating characteristic area under the curve values below 0.62. These findings indicate that in this cohort, plasma levels of these individual markers did not provide diagnostic value; larger longitudinal studies including cerebrospinal fluid comparisons and multi-marker panels are needed.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42551357 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42550961 is a review article
Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1) is a validated therapeutic target for cancer treatment; however, conventional PARP inhibitors are limited by their occupancy-driven mechanism and acquired resistance. To explore an alternative strategy, a series of hydrophobic tagging-based PARP1 degraders were designed and synthesized by conjugating hydrophobic moieties to olaparib through linkers of varying lengths. Structure-activity relationship studies identified compound 7i as the most promising degrader, exhibiting potent antiproliferative activity against SW620 cells (IC50 = 5.62 ± 0.41 μM) and efficient PARP1 degradation with a DC50 value of 4.31 ± 0.67 μM. Compound 7i induced rapid, concentration- and time-dependent degradation of PARP1. Mechanistic studies suggested that 7i-mediated degradation was dependent on the ubiquitin-proteasome system. In addition, pharmacological inhibition of HSP70 and HSP90 partially restored PARP1 protein levels, suggesting that chaperone-associated protein quality control pathways may contribute to the degradation process. Compound 7i effectively reduced PARP1 expression in multiple colorectal cancer cell lines and induced apoptosis in a concentration-dependent manner. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that hydrophobic tagging represents an effective strategy for PARP1 degradation and provides a promising approach for the development of PARP1-targeted anticancer agents.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Selenium nanoparticles (SeNPs) have emerged as promising anticancer agents due to their selective cytotoxicity and ability to modulate oncogenic signaling pathways. In this study, we developed a novel L-cysteine-modified selenium nanoparticles (L-SeNPs) system and investigated its antitumor effects and underlying molecular mechanisms in ovarian cancer cells. Our results demonstrated that L-SeNPs significantly inhibited cell proliferation and clonogenic potential in a dose- and time-dependent manner in A2780 and SKOV3 ovarian cancer cells. Mechanistically, L-SeNPs induced intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation, which subsequently resulted in DNA damage, as indicated by the accumulation of γ-H2AX. Treatment with the ROS scavenger N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC) markedly attenuated L-SeNPs-induced DNA damage, indicating that ROS generation serves as an upstream event in this process. L-SeNPs further triggered mitochondrial apoptosis characterized by activation of Bax, Bak, and cleaved PARP-1, along with downregulation of Bcl-2. Transcriptomic profiling revealed significant enrichment of the FOXO signaling pathway following L-SeNPs treatment, with GADD45A identified as a key upregulated downstream effector. Further mechanistic studies demonstrated that ROS-mediated DNA damage promoted FOXO3a nuclear translocation, leading to transcriptional activation of GADD45A. Functional experiments confirmed that both FOXO3a and GADD45A are essential for L-SeNPs-induced apoptosis, and restoration of GADD45A partially rescued apoptotic activity in FOXO3a-silenced cells, indicating that GADD45A acts downstream of FOXO3a. In conclusion, L-SeNPs exert potent antitumor effects in ovarian cancer cells by inducing ROS-mediated DNA damage and activating the FOXO3a-GADD45A axis, thereby triggering mitochondrial apoptosis and suppressing tumor cell proliferation. These findings provide new mechanistic insights into selenium-based nanomaterials and suggest the FOXO3a-GADD45A pathway as a potential therapeutic target for ovarian cancer treatment.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Notwithstanding progress in chemotherapy, cancer recurrence resulting from metastasis continues to be a significant challenge. Consequently, targeting the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) has emerged as a viable approach to impede metastasis and enhance therapy success. In colorectal cancer, current initiatives focus on discovering new agents that are both efficacious and less harmful to normal cells. Plant-derived flavonoids and metal-based compounds exhibit significant medicinal potential. This research examined the anticancer efficacy of a Cu(II)-flavonoid complex comprising quercetin and 1,10-phenanthroline ligands in colorectal cancer cell lines HCT-116 and HT-29. The sulforhodamine B (SRB) assay assessed cell viability, yielding IC₅₀ values of 3.19 μM for HCT-116 and 1.81 μM for HT-29 after 48 h, but the individual ligands demonstrated no similar cytotoxicity. The compound exhibited lower cytotoxicity to normal colon cells (CCD-18Co) than toward colorectal cancer cells (HCT-116 and HT-29). Apoptosis induction was verified with Hoechst 33342, Annexin-V-FITC, and propidium Iodide staining, supplemented by M30-antigen ELISA, and further corroborated by the pan-caspase inhibitor Z-VAD-FMK and elevated levels of apoptotic protein markers such as cleaved caspase-8 and parp-1. Flow cytometry revealed G₀/G₁ phase arrest, indicating caspase-dependent apoptotic cell death. The compound also impeded epithelial-mesenchymal transition, as demonstrated by a dose-dependent reduction in migration and invasion in wound healing and Matrigel invasion experiments. Western blot analysis revealed elevated levels of E-cadherin and reduced levels of N-cadherin, vimentin, and snail. The Cu(II)-flavonoid combination demonstrates significant anti-proliferative, pro-apoptotic, and anti-metastatic properties in colorectal cancer cells, while exhibiting lower cytotoxic effects in normal colon cells. This underscores its potential as a viable candidate for additional molecular and in vivo assessment of the complex in colorectal cancer.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
PEGylated liposomal nanocarriers have emerged as a promising drug delivery platform for improving the pharmacokinetic performance and systemic circulation of poorly water-soluble anticancer drugs. In this study, Axitinib-loaded PEGylated liposomes (F11-PEGliposome) were prepared and evaluated for the potential treatment of breast cancer. Liposomes were prepared by optimization with a Box-Behnken design and subsequently extruded using lipid extrusion to obtain a vesicle size of 158.6 ± 2.4 nm, PDI of 0.12 ± 0.01, zeta potential of -1.2 ± 0.5, and entrapment efficiency of 79.9 ± 1.8%. In 2D cell culture studies, F11-PEGliposome showed enhanced anticancer activity with IC50 values of 1.7- and 2.13-fold lower than free Axitinib. Cellular uptake, ROS generation, JC-1 mitochondrial membrane potential, and AO/EB staining assays exhibited enhanced internalization and apoptosis induction. In 3D spheroid models, F11-PEGliposome exhibited deep penetration in the tumor, significant growth inhibition, increased ROS production, and pronounced apoptotic cell death. In-vivo pharmacokinetic and biodistribution studies showed extended circulation, enhanced bioavailability, and prolonged half-life. Reduced hepatic and renal toxicity was evident as shown by histopathological evaluation and decreased serum AST, ALT, creatinine, and BUN levels. Western blot analysis revealed dose-dependent increases of cleaved caspase-3 and cleaved PARP1, supporting the conclusion of apoptosis.
Gain-of-function (GoF) missense variants in the two-pore domain (K2P) K+ channel TASK-1 (KCNK3) result in developmental delay with sleep apnea (DDSA), a neurodevelopmental channelopathy, while loss-of-function (LoF) variants cause pulmonary arterial hypertension. However, for the related TASK-3 channel (KCNK9), both LoF and GoF variants underlie a distinct neurodevelopmental disorder, KCNK9 imprinting syndrome (KIS). The relationship between genotype and phenotype in these disorders is further complicated because TASK-1 and TASK-3 can co-assemble into heteromeric channels with distinct functional properties. Here, we report additional patients with missense variants in KCNK3 and KCNK9 and investigate the effect of four novel genetic variants on the functional properties of homomeric and heteromeric TASK channels. Interestingly, two of these new pathogenic GoF variants (R131H and L122V) are found in both TASK-1 and TASK-3 and have equivalent functional effects on heteromeric TASK-1/TASK-3 channel activity, yet result in different clinical phenotypes. We have also determined a cryo-EM structure for the pathogenic L122V mutant TASK-3 channel, which suggests that subtle changes in gating and permeation within the inner cavity are responsible for its activatory effect. Overall, these results highlight the dominant role that homomeric TASK channels likely play in defining their associated channelopathies as well as the complexity of interpreting K+ channel dysfunction in pathophysiology.© 2026 Crowther et al.
Diabetes mellitus (DM) is characterized by chronic metabolic stress that promotes oxidative damage, genomic instability, and premature cellular aging, with adipose tissue senescence being a pivotal contributor to metabolic dysfunction. Yet the impact on DNA damage repair (DDR) and telomere maintenance in adipose tissue remains poorly defined. This study investigated DDR capacity, telomere integrity, and the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) in adipose tissue and adipose-derived stromal cells (ADSCs) under diabetic conditions. Using an obese diabetic (ob/ob) mouse model, we confirmed whole-blood telomere shortening, significant adipose tissue hypertrophy, metabolic dysregulation, and elevated DNA damage, evidenced by increased γH2AX-positive staining. In vitro, ADSCs exposed to a diabetic microenvironment (AGEs and TNFα) exhibited increased reactive oxygen species and DNA damage without a corresponding activation of DDR pathways, as indicated by unchanged PARP1 levels and broad downregulation of key DNA repair genes, including sensors (ATM, ABL1, RAD17) and effectors across MMR, NER, HR, and NHEJ pathways. This impaired genomic surveillance was accompanied by premature cellular senescence and significant repression of genes involved in telomere protection (shelterin complex), telomerase activity, and telomere maintenance, together with marked telomere shortening following prolonged exposure. Furthermore, diabetic conditions increased the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines, chemokines, and growth factors. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that the diabetic microenvironment is associated with maladaptive DDR responses, telomere dysfunction, cellular senescence, and a pro-inflammatory secretory phenotype. This study highlights compromised genomic maintenance as a potential key mechanism underpinning adipose tissue dysfunction in DM and emphasizes the need for future investigations into the mechanisms underlying dysregulated DDR and telomere biology.© the author(s).
Protein S-palmitoylation is a dynamic and reversible post-translational modification (PTM) that governs diverse cellular processes, yet its study remains constrained by the indirect and ensemble-averaging nature of classical biochemical assays. Here, we report a nanopore-based platform, PALM-Scan (palmitoylation analysis via label-free monitoring and signature capture on nanopore) that directly transduces physicochemical signatures of S-palmitoylated peptides into digital electrical signals. Using an engineered Mycobacterium smegmatis porin A (M2-MspA) nanopore, PALM-Scan enables sequence-independent identification of S-palmitoylation and simultaneously differentiates S-palmitoylation from other cysteine-directed PTMs, including S-nitrosylation and S-glutathionylation, without probes or enrichment. We further demonstrate its translational potential by successfully detecting and distinguishing S-palmitoylated subpopulations of disease-relevant biomarkers, including mouse beclin-1 (BECN1)- and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-derived peptides, in complex mixtures with minimal sample input. In summary, by integrating label-free operation, single-molecule resolution, and multiplex discrimination, PALM-Scan provides a transformative tool for interrogating S-palmitoylation dynamics in both basic research and biomedical applications.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To investigate whether daporinad (APO866), a nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase (NAMPT) inhibitor, can potently kill Philadelphia chromosome-positive (Ph+) acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) cells via an intrinsic apoptosis-independent pathway.Ph+ ALL SUP-B15 cells were treated with varying concentrations of APO866. After treatment, cell viability was measured via Deep Blue assay, while apoptosis and cell death were determined by Annexin V/7-AAD double staining. Cleavage of Caspase-3 and PARP1 was detected by Western blot, and rescue experiments with the pan-caspase inhibitor Z-VAD-FMK were performed to rule out apoptotic involvement. To determine whether APO866-induced cell killing depends on nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) depletion, the NAD+ precursor nicotinic acid (NA) was supplemented and NAD+consuming enzyme CD38 was knocked down. Furthermore, TP53 knockout and BAX/BAK double-knockout SUP-B15 cell models were used to verify that the cytotoxic effect of APO866 is independent of the intrinsic apoptotic pathway.Both Deep Blue and Annexin V/7-AAD staining assays showed that APO866 effectively kills SUP-B15 cells. This cytotoxic effect could not be abrogated by the pan-caspase inhibitor Z-VAD-FMK, and no cleavage of Caspase-3 and PARP1 was detected during the process of cell killing. Intracellular NAD+ levels were markedly decreased following APO866 treatment, and supplementation with NA or knockout of CD38 partially reversed such cytotoxicity. Neither TP53 knockout nor BAX/BAK double knockout impaired the killing efficiency of APO866 against SUP-B15 cells.APO866 could potently induce SUP-B15 cell death by depleting intracellular NAD+ levels, a process that lacks canonical features of the intrinsic apoptotic pathway. Moreover, its cytotoxicity persists even with deficiencies in key regulators of this pathway, indicating a mechanism of action that is independent of intrinsic apoptosis.
This study aimed to investigate the effect and mechanism of Bugan Decoction on spermatogenesis in mice with exercise-induced fatigue. Male ICR mice were screened by swimming training and randomly divided into seven groups(n=10 per group): a blank group, a model group, low-, medium-, and high-dose Bugan Decoction groups, an olaparib group, and a vitamin C group. Except for the blank group, the other groups were subjected to weight-loaded swimming training to establish the exercise-induced fatigue model. After weight-loaded swimming, the low-, medium-, and high-dose Bugan Decoction groups were intragastrically administered 0.149, 0.298, and 0.596 g·kg~(-1) Bugan Decoction, respectively; the olaparib group received intraperitoneal injection of 0.05 g·kg~(-1) olaparib; the vitamin C group was intragastrically given 0.2 g·kg~(-1) vitamin C; the blank group and model group were gavaged with an equal volume of normal saline. The administration lasted for 2 consecutive weeks. At the end of the experiment, the final exhaustive swimming time of mice in each group was recorded. Commercial kits were used to detect the levels of urea nitrogen(BUN), lactic acid(LA), lactate dehydrogenase(LDH), superoxide dismutase(SOD), malondialdehyde(MDA), glutathione peroxidase(GSH-Px) in serum, and testicular testosterone(T), interleukin-6(IL-6), interleukin-1β(IL-1β), tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α) in testes. Pathological morphological changes of muscle and testicular tissues, as well as epididymal sperm quality, were observed. Sperm mitochondrial membrane potential was detected by flow cytometry. Testicular mitochondrial morphology was observed by electron microscopy. Western blot was used to determine the protein expression of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1(PARP-1), p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase(p38 MAPK), phospho-p38 MAPK(p-p38), c-Jun N-terminal kinase(JNK), phospho-JNK(p-JNK), cleaved caspase-3, B-cell lymphoma-2(Bcl-2), Bcl-2-associated X protein(Bax), and IL-6 in testes. Immunofluorescence was performed to detect PARP-1 expression in testes. Animal experimental results showed that compared with the blank group, the model group exhibited significant fatigue-related phenotypes, accompanied by increased levels of serum fatigue metabolites, decreased activities of antioxidant enzymes, upregulated expression of local inflammatory factors in testicular tissues, decreased T level, abnormal activation of apoptosis and stress-related pathway proteins, reduced sperm quality, damaged mitochondrial membrane potential, and abnormal morphological structure of testicular mitochondria. Compared with the model group, the medium-and high-dose Bugan Decoction groups and olaparib group significantly improved the above indicators: increased body weight and exhaustive swimming time, decreased serum levels of LA, LDH, BUN, and MDA, increased activities of SOD and GSH-Px, downregulated expression of inflammatory factors in testicular tissue, recovered T level, inhibited activation of apoptosis and stress-related pathway proteins, improved sperm quality, alleviated mitochondrial membrane potential damage, and restored the morphological structure of testicular mitochondria. In conclusion, Bugan Decoction can improve testicular mitochondrial dysfunction by inhibiting the PARP-1/p38 MAPK/JNK pathway, reduce testicular cell apoptosis and local inflammatory response, maintain stable T levels and a normal spermatogenic microenvironment, and ultimately improve sperm quality.
Based on a strategy integrating topological feature identification and path priority assessment, this study systematically explored the efficacy targets and differentiated mechanisms of Colquhounia Root Tablets(CRT) in the &quot;homotherapy for heteropathy&quot; of rheumatoid arthritis(RA) and diabetic kidney disease(DKD). Firstly, candidate targets of CRT and disease-specific genes were retrieved by integrating multi-source databases and transcriptomic data. Protein-protein interaction(PPI) networks were constructed to identify key targets shared by or specific to RA and DKD via topological feature identification. Subsequently, a path priority assessment was introduced to calculate the average shortest path(ASP) values from drug targets to various pathological segments, thereby quantifying intervention efficacy to lock onto &quot;dominant pharmacodynamic links&quot;. The predicted key functional axes were validated through animal experiments. The results indicated that the core targets of CRT for both diseases involved shared pathways such as phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase(PI3K)-protein kinase B(Akt), tumor necrosis factor(TNF), and glycolysis/gluconeogenesis. Notably, path priority assessment revealed distinct dominant intervention links: for RA, CRT preferentially targeted &quot;fibroblast-like synoviocyte(FLS) activation and invasion&quot;(ASP=2.361), which mapped to the TNF-p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase(p38)-LIM domain kinase 1(LIMK1)-Cofilin1 axis to regulate cytoskeleton remodeling; for DKD, the dominant link was &quot;filtration barrier injury and interstitial fibrosis&quot;(ASP=2.295), converging on the TNF-poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1(PARP1)-signal transducer and activator of transcription 1(STAT1)-matrix metallopeptidase 9(MMP9) axis to mediate cellular senescence and senescence-associated secretory phenotype(SASP) secretion. Animal experiments confirmed that CRT significantly alleviated RA synovial invasion and DKD renal fibrosis by inhibiting these two differentiated signaling axes, respectively. By employing topological feature identification and path priority assessment, this study elucidates the scientific connotation of &quot;homotherapy for heteropathy&quot; of RA and DKD with CRT through both shared network regulation and intervention in disease-specific differential signaling axes associated with pharmacodynamic links.
Pathological subtypes are key determinants of surgical strategy and prognosis in refractory mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE), with hippocampal sclerosis (HS) associated with better outcomes than gliosis only. Subtype-specific patterns of cerebral metabolism and neuroinflammation, which may inform lesion localization and subtype differentiation, remain poorly defined. This study aimed to delineate these patterns using ¹⁸F-FDG PET and translocator protein (TSPO) PET with ¹⁸F-DPA-714 for precise localization, with emphasis on the added value of quantitative analysis.Patients with unilateral refractory MTLE undergoing surgery were retrospectively included, and pathological subtypes were classified according to histological profiles (HS, n = 43; gliosis only, n = 41). Patients underwent sequential integrated dual-tracer PET/MR imaging within one week. Age- and sex-matched healthy controls (HC) were recruited. Whole-brain voxel-wise and temporal lobe subregional analyses were performed. Localization performance was assessed by visual inspection and quantitative analysis employing an asymmetry index (AI) derived from standardized uptake value ratios. Sensitivity and accuracy were calculated, with false discovery rate correction applied for multiple comparisons.In total, 43 MTLE-HS and 41 MTLE-gliosis only were included. Compared with HC, both HS and gliosis exhibited significant 18F-FDG hypometabolism alongside increased 18F-DPA-714 uptake, more pronounced in HS. Whole-brain 18F-DPA-714 abnormalities were more confined to temporal regions, affording clearer lateralization and localization than 18F-FDG. In temporal-lobe subregional analysis, 18F-FDG outperformed 18F-DPA-714 for subtype discrimination, and hippocampal AI value achieved the best performance (35/43 [81.4%] vs. 22/41 [53.7%], p = 0.007). Quantitative analysis enhanced localization accuracy for both tracers, yielding the greatest improvement for TSPO in gliosis (from 10/41 [24.4%] to 19/41 [46.3%], p = 0.038).Dual-tracer PET/MR combined with quantitative analysis may improve subtype-specific presurgical localization in refractory MTLE. TSPO-PET precisely localized the epileptogenic lesion, whereas FDG-PET facilitated differentiation of pathological subtypes.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560134 is a review article
Previous studies show that combined treatment with stem cell factor (SCF) and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) enhances brain repair and functional recovery during the chronic phase of severe traumatic brain injury (TBI), but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we investigated whether SCF + G-CSF modulates brain immune cell states during chronic TBI. In a controlled cortical impact mouse model, SCF + G-CSF was administered subcutaneously for 5 consecutive days beginning 8 months post-injury. CD11b⁺ brain immune cells, including microglia and monocytes/macrophages (Mo/Mac), were isolated one day after the final injection and analyzed by single-cell RNA sequencing. Integrated analyses revealed more extensive transcriptomic changes in Mo/Mac than in microglia following SCF + G-CSF treatment. Flow cytometry confirmed a significant increase in the CD11b+/CD45high Mo/Mac population following treatment. In microglia, SCF + G-CSF modestly upregulated genes such as S100a8, S100a9, Mir682, and Rpl37rt. In contrast, Mo/Mac showed robust upregulation of genes including Wfdc17, Ifitm1/2/3, Tspo, Lrg1, and Igfbp6, consistent with transcriptomic signatures associated with antiviral defense, anti-inflammatory regulation, and acquisition of reparative phenotypes. Volcano plot analysis demonstrated more extensive transcriptomic remodeling in infiltrating peripheral immune cells than in resident microglia. Pathway analysis identified interleukin-17 signaling as a candidate pathway associated with SCF + G-CSF treatment, along with enrichment of programs related to protein synthesis, detoxification, and glial development. Together, these findings demonstrate that the transcriptomic response to SCF + G-CSF treatment is more pronounced in cerebral monocyte/macrophage populations than in microglia, providing insight into candidate immunomodulatory mechanisms associated with brain repair in chronic TBI.© 2026. The Author(s).
Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) is rapidly induced after ischemic stroke, but its proposed cell-specific and sex-dependent functions during post-stroke inflammation remain insufficiently understood. Here, we investigated the role of microglia-derived TNF in the acute and subacute response to permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO). Tnf expression was transiently upregulated after stroke, becoming significant at 4 h, peaking at 12-24 h, and returning to baseline by 5 days. In situ hybridization confirmed strong Tnf expression in the infarct and peri-infarct regions. Whole-brain transcriptomic profiling showed that global TNF deficiency reshaped the early post-ischemic response, shifting it from microglia-associated phagocytic and wound-healing pathways toward an interferon-related inflammatory signature. To define the specific contribution of microglial TNF, we used inducible Cx3cr1CreER:Tnffl/fl mice. Microglial TNF deletion had no effect on infarct volume in males at 24 h or 5 days after pMCAO, but significantly increased infarct size in females at both time points. In both sexes, brain TNF levels peaked at 24 h and were significantly reduced in Cx3cr1CreER:Tnffl/fl mice, confirming microglia as a major source of early post-ischemic TNF. However, downstream consequences diverged by sex. At 5 days, male Cx3cr1CreER:Tnffl/fl mice showed reduced microglial reactivity and 18 kDa translocator protein (TSPO) signal, with no change in T-cell infiltration, and exhibited increased density of mature oligodendrocytes. In contrast, female Cx3cr1CreER:Tnffl/fl mice displayed enhanced microglial reactivity, increased TSPO binding, higher peri-infarct T-cell infiltration, and reduced oligodendrocyte density and myelin integrity. Together, these findings identify microglial TNF as a sex-dependent regulator of post-stroke inflammation and myelin injury.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Mitochondria relay their functional state to the nucleus via retrograde signaling, yet whether the spatial organization of the mitochondrial network plays a role in this process remains unclear. Here, we show that stress-induced clustering of mitochondria around the nucleus is a crucial part of the retrograde response. Perinuclear clustering facilitates the formation of mitochondria-nucleus contact sites (MNCS) and the nuclear entry of GPS2, a key mediator of mitochondrial retrograde signaling essential for activating nuclear-encoded mitochondrial and stress-response genes in response to various mitochondrial stressors. Unexpectedly, TSPO-driven MNCS are dispensable for GPS2-based retrograde signaling. Instead, we identify the mitochondrial import receptor TOMM70 and the nucleoporin RanBP2/NUP358 as components of a stress-induced nuclear pore-associated tethering complex required for promoting GPS2 nuclear translocation and activation of downstream programs. These findings establish MNCS as a functional gateway for mitochondrial retrograde signaling, highlighting that organelle positioning and tethering at the nuclear pore provide an unexpected layer of stress regulation.
Kashin-Beck disease (KBD) is a chronic, endemic osteoarticular disorder associated with T-2 toxin exposure, which is rapidly metabolized to HT-2 toxin in vivo. However, the role of zinc transporter ZIP6 in HT-2 toxin-induced extracellular matrix metabolic disturbance in chondrocytes remains unclear. This study established HT-2 toxin intervention and ZIP6 knockdown chondrocyte models, combined with quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and transcriptome sequencing, to investigate the regulatory mechanisms of ZIP6 in chondrocyte injury. Following HT-2 toxin exposure, altered chondrocyte morphology and reduced cell viability were observed; ZIP6, COL2A1, MTF1, and MTF2 expression were significantly downregulated, whereas MMP1, MMP13, and COL10A1 were upregulated. ZIP6 knockdown significantly upregulated COL2A1, MTF1, and MTF2, downregulated MMP1 and COL10A1, but did not alter MMP13 expression. Differentially expressed genes following ZIP6 knockdown were predominantly enriched in FoxO, cAMP, and TNF signaling pathways. qRT-PCR validation confirmed consistent expression changes in FOXO4, TNFSF10, COLEC10, UCA1, and LRRC17 with transcriptome sequencing results. Collectively, HT-2 toxin suppresses ZIP6, MTF1, and MTF2 expression, disrupting chondrocyte extracellular matrix metabolism; conversely, ZIP6 knockdown ameliorates matrix metabolic abnormalities through modulation of relevant signaling pathways. These findings reveal differential regulatory effects of HT-2 toxin and ZIP6 on cartilage matrix metabolism, providing experimental evidence for elucidating molecular mechanisms underlying cartilage injury-related diseases.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Biochemical and Molecular Toxicology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Neuroinflammatory PET offers a direct in vivo means of quantifying neuroinflammatory processes through molecular targets expressed by activated glia, including the 18 kDa translocator protein (TSPO), monoamine oxidase B, and the P2X7 receptor. This review synthesizes current evidence for neuroinflammatory PET in epileptogenic zone (EZ) localization across these and emerging targets. TSPO PET demonstrates ipsilateral uptake in temporal lobe and neocortical epilepsy, detects the EZ in MRI-negative cases, and shows strong concordance with intracranial electroencephalography, with complete resection of TSPO-positive regions associated with seizure-free outcomes. Monoamine oxidase B PET identifies the epileptogenic hippocampus through astrogliosis-specific signaling, whereas P2X7 receptor PET shows promise in preclinical models and ex vivo resected tissue. Emerging targets further expand the repertoire for neuroinflammatory characterization of the EZ. Neuroinflammatory PET has the potential to improve EZ localization, better inform surgical eligibility, and guide resection extent in patients where conventional imaging is insufficient.© 2026 by the Society of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging.
Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is the second most common cause of neurodegenerative dementia, pathologically defined by the presence of Lewy bodies. Peripheral and central inflammation are increasingly recognized in DLB in clinical, post-mortem and animal studies. Finding clinically relevant biomarkers of inflammation in DLB will support the identification of novel pathways for disease-modifying therapies or use in clinical trials of immunomodulatory agents. Whilst there are cross-sectional studies of inflammation markers in DLB, there is limited evidence on the association between these markers and cognitive decline over time. Twenty participants with DLB underwent blood sampling for serum inflammatory markers, paired with PET imaging of the translocator protein (TSPO) and up to 4 years of longitudinal cognitive testing. Thirty participants with Alzheimer's disease-comprising both Alzheimer's dementia and/or mild cognitive impairment with biomarker evidence of amyloid pathology (AD/MCI+)-and 28 controls were also recruited for group comparisons. Data from 42 baseline cytokine immunoassays and TSPO PET were used as predictors of longitudinal cognitive scores in linear mixed-effects models. Partial least squares regression was used to test the association between peripheral and central inflammation. Using peripheral inflammatory markers as single predictors, we identified 14 associated with either a slower or faster rate of cognitive decline in DLB, whilst no single marker was predictive of decline in AD/MCI+. As many inflammatory markers were highly correlated, we used principal component analysis to identify a cytokine component associated with reduced cognitive decline in both DLB and AD/MCI+, that overlapped with the single markers identified in the previous analysis. A separate component was associated with cognitive decline in AD/MCI+ or DLB with Alzheimer's dementia co-pathology (ascertained by amyloid PET). Widespread TSPO binding was associated with reduced cognitive decline in DLB, whilst a fronto-temporal pattern was associated with more rapid cognitive decline in both DLB and AD/MCI+. There were associations between peripheral cytokines and TSPO PET in AD/MCI+, but these were not significant in DLB. Overall, peripheral and central inflammation predicted cognitive decline in DLB. Specific patterns associated with both faster and slower rates of decline were identified. These profiles had both overlapping and contrasting associations when compared to AD/MCI+. Collectively, these data add to a body of evidence suggesting clinically relevant levels of inflammation in DLB. Future studies in larger, multi-site cohorts with multiple biomarker sampling points are required to understand the impact and dynamics of inflammation across all stages of the disease.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain.
Klinefelter syndrome is most commonly associated with a 47,XXY karyotype, though rarer variants such as 48,XXXY, 48,XXYY, 49,XXXXY, and mosaic forms occur. The clinical spectrum includes intellectual disability, psychiatric disorders, endocrinopathies, and infertility, while epilepsy is rarely reported. The syndrome is also linked to an increased risk of malignancies, including breast cancer and mediastinal germ cell tumors. Multinodular and vacuolating neuronal tumors (MVNTs) are rare glioneuronal neoplasms.We report a 9-year-old male with a 2-year history of epilepsy, in whom brain MRI revealed an MVNT in the left posterior temporal lobe. Chromosomal microarray analysis showed a 2.5 Mb duplication at Xp22.33, a 152.9 Mb duplication from Xp22.33 to Xq28, and a 280 kb deletion at 5q33.1. Karyotyping confirmed a 47,XXY karyotype, consistent with Klinefelter syndrome.While MVNTs are typically sporadic or monogenic, this case raises the possibility of an association with Klinefelter syndrome. To our knowledge, this is the second reported case, contributing to the expanding clinical and genetic spectrum of Klinefelter syndrome-associated neurological findings.© 2026 S. Karger AG, Basel.
Sepsis is a life-threatening organ dysfunction caused by a dysregulated immune response to infection. Ammonia-induced cell death (AICD) is a novel form of cell death, and its association with sepsis remains unclear. This study aims to identify key genes involved in AICD in pediatric sepsis.Obtain batch transcriptome (bulk RNA) and single-cell transcriptome (scRNA) data of pediatric sepsis from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Screen for differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and key module genes of weighted gene co-expression networks in the bulk RNA data, and take the intersection with AICD-related genes. Construct diagnostic models using various machine learning algorithms and identify key genes. Evaluate immune infiltration using CIBERSORT. Analyze the expression characteristics of key genes using scRNA-seq and conduct cell communication analysis. Further perform functional enrichment analysis under virtual gene knockout conditions using scTenifoldKnk.The optimal diagnostic model identified a total of 9 key genes for pediatric sepsis AICD (STOM, SORT1, PADI4, MMP9, LCN2, CR1, TSPO, TXN, IL1RN). The immune infiltration analysis revealed that the proportions of cells such as Macrophages M0 and Neutrophils increased in the sepsis group, while the proportions of T cells CD8 and B cells naive decreased. Single-cell analysis showed that TSPO and TXN were upregulated in Monocytes in the sepsis group. After virtual knockout of TSPO and TXN, the perturbed genes are respectively enriched in pathways such as the B cell receptor signaling pathway and Platelet activation, and jointly enriched in pathways including Hematopoietic cell lineage.This study identified nine genes, including TSPO and TXN, as key genes for AICD in pediatric sepsis. The diagnostic model constructed has potential clinical application value. Monocytes may be the potential cell type that undergoes AICD in the high-ammonia environment of pediatric sepsis. TSPO and TXN may affect the AICD process of pediatric sepsis through different mechanisms.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is a one of the common microvascular complication of diabetes that involves oxidative stress, inflammation, activation and overexpression of Nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB), and chronic renal dysfunction. In this study, we evaluated the renoprotective role of perillaldehyde (PA) in protecting kidneys from diabetic nephropathy using in vitro and in vivo models of Streptozotocin-induced diabetic nephropathy. PA pre-treatment of NRK-52E cells under high-glucose conditions resulted in a significant reduction of reactive oxygen species formation, up-regulation of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), suppression of Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (Keap1), and elevation of antioxidant enzyme biomarkers, such as heme oxygenase 1, superoxide dismutase 1, and NAD(P)H dehydrogenase quinone 1. PA also inhibited the overexpression of NF-κB, inducible nitric oxide synthase, and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase in high-glucose exposed NRK-52E cells. Administration of PA (35 and 70 mg/kg) to streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats showed beneficial effects on renal function parameters such as creatinine and blood urea nitrogen. PA treatment attenuated glomerular and tubular structural damage, as evidenced by H&E and PAS staining. At molecular level, PA was found to maintain the redox balance in the kidneys by stimulating the Nrf2/Keap1/HO-1 signalling pathway and inhibiting the NF-κB-dependent inflammatory response. Moreover, PA lowered lipid peroxidation and enhanced antioxidant status via reduction in MDA and elevation in GSH. The above results indicated that PA showed considerable reno-protective actions through coordinated regulation of both oxidative stress and inflammation pathways in experimental models of diabetic nephropathy.© 2026 International Federation of Cell Biology.
Some forms of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are associated with sequence variants in the superoxide dismutase 1 gene (SOD1). The mechanisms by which these variants contribute to ALS disease pathogenesis are poorly understood. Degenerative myelopathy (DM), a naturally occurring canine disease, shares similarities with some forms of SOD1-associated ALS, especially cases with sensory impairment. While motor pathway involvement in ALS has been extensively studied, sensory pathology has received comparatively less attention. To investigate whether pathology in the general proprioceptive pathway is associated with pelvic limb general proprioceptive ataxia, an early DM sign, we examined sensory system components of this pathway from Pembroke Welsh Corgis with early- and late-stage DM and age-matched controls. The disease was characterized by axonal pathology in the spinocerebellar tracts and the fasciculus gracilis, pronounced accumulation of SOD1-positive inclusions in nucleus thoracicus and dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons, and altered SOD1 immunolabeling in dorsal and ventral root axons and ensheathing myelin. Axonal pathology was also observed in a pelvic limb sensory nerve. These findings suggest that pathology in the proprioceptive sensory pathways may play a significant role in general proprioceptive ataxia in DM. Some dogs that were homozygous for the SOD1 risk allele did not develop clinical disease or the associated neuropathology, indicating that other factors in addition to the SOD1 mutation influence disease onset and progression.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Background: Breast cancer is the most common malignancy among women and a leading cause of cancer-related deaths globally. Its development involves hormonal, genetic, environmental and inflammatory factors. Among environmental contributors, cadmium (Cd2+), a metalloestrogen known to induce redox imbalance, as well as estrogen metabolites, may exert divergent biological effects. Methods: This study investigated the effects of 17β-estradiol (E2) and its metabolites-2-methoxyestradiol (2-MeOE2) and 4-hydroxyestradiol (4-OHE2)-administered alone or in combination with CdCl2, on estrogen receptor--positive MCF-7 breast cancer cells and their doxorubicin-resistant cells (MCF-7/DOX). We evaluated cytotoxicity, interaction profiles (synergism/antagonism), and redox-related enzymes associated with drug resistance, including superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) and glutathione S-transferase pi (GST-pi). There are no known examples of these types of interactions, especially those involving estrogen metabolites with opposing biological activities-anticancer 2-MeOE2 and procarcinogenic-4-OHE2 in combination with cadmium. Cell viability was assessed after 48 h exposure to individual and combined treatments of CdCl2. Interaction types (synergism/antagonism) were determined via the combination index method. Antioxidative enzymes were evaluated by quantitative and immunocytochemical analysis of SOD1, GST and GST-pi expression. Results: All tested compounds reduced cell viability in a concentration-dependent manner, with CdCl2 showing the highest cytotoxicity. MCF-7 cell lines were generally more sensitive to CdCl2, E2, and 2-MeOE2, whereas MCF-7/DOX cell lines exhibited greater sensitivity to 4-OHE2. Combination studies revealed predominantly antagonistic interactions, particularly for CdCl2 + 2-MeOE2, suggesting a protective redox-modulating effect of this metabolite. Resistant cells consistently displayed higher SOD1 activity and GST-pi expression, indicating enhanced adaptive responses to oxidative stress. Conclusions: Our study underscores the importance of concentration-dependent interactions between environmental Cd2+ and pathways regulated by 17β-estradiol and its metabolites, particularly in the context of cytotoxicity and redox imbalance relevant to breast cancer progression and therapy resistance.
Microplastic exposure is an emerging environmental risk factor for cardiovascular health; however, whether cardiovascular alterations can be detected after exposure cessation remains unclear. This study investigated subclinical cardiovascular alterations following repeated oral exposure to polystyrene microplastics (PSMPs), with particular emphasis on redox imbalance and mitochondrial function in delayed cardiovascular alterations. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were administered 0.5 μm PSMPs via oral gavage at varying dosages of 5 or 20 mg/kg every 5 days for 70 days, followed by a 35-day exposure-free period. Repeated exposure to PSMPs did not affect body or organ weights but altered cardiac serum biochemical markers. Cardiac tissue exhibited elevated NADPH oxidase 4 (NOX4) expression and decreased superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1), SOD2, and catalase (CAT) activities, whereas malondialdehyde (MDA) levels remained unchanged, indicating a state of chronic, low-level oxidative stress. Mitochondrial respiratory chain activities, including nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide cytochrome c reductase (NCCR) and succinate cytochrome c reductase (SCCR), were significantly reduced. Ultrastructural analysis revealed mitochondrial swelling and cristae disruption. In parallel, mitochondrial biogenesis-related proteins, including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1 alpha (PGC-1α), nuclear respiratory factor 1 (NRF-1), and mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM), were downregulated, while mitophagy markers, including PTEN-induced kinase 1 (PINK1), Parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase (Parkin), microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 (LC3), and sequestosome 1 (p62), were upregulated. Notably, most significant alterations were primarily observed in the high-dose group. Furthermore, the aorta showed increased oxidative stress markers without overt structural remodeling. These findings suggest that repeated exposure to PSMP is associated with subclinical cardiac redox-mitochondrial dysregulation, potentially involving redox imbalance, impaired mitochondrial respiratory chain activity, reduced mitochondrial biogenesis, and altered mitochondrial quality-control markers.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is considered a highly complex, heterogeneous, fatal disease with a high unmet medical need that affects multiple pathophysiological pathways and has no known singular cause. Oxidative stress, however, is implicated as a central player in the progression of ALS and other neurodegenerative diseases. To date, only two FDA-approved drugs, Edaravone, an antioxidant, and Riluzole, an antiglutamatergic, have been widely used clinically, albeit with modest effects on the clinical course of ALS disease progression. Additionally, preclinical studies of both drugs in ALS mouse models have not shown any significant survival benefit, although some abatement in disease progression is observed and translated from preclinical animal models to clinical human studies.Using a trifunctional boron-based drug design strategy, we have synthesized a pyrazole small molecule called Borsantrazole (BSZ) and evaluated BSZ in cell-based experiments, acute and chronic toxicity models, and the SOD1-G37R ALS mouse model. We have also evaluated untargeted global proteomic and phosphoproteomic changes induced by BSZ.Borsantrazole (a small molecule that can selectively target oxidative stress) with favorable CNS drug like properties (low ER values of 0.9 and 1.0 at 1 and 10 µm, respectively, suggesting lower Pgp efflux liability and the LogD at pH 7.4 was within the range of 1.2 to 3.1, suggesting BSZ is lipophilic at pH 7.4.) shows no signs of treatment associated toxicity (acute or chronic (120 days)), significantly increases survival (whole animals, 15.1 days (p = 0.0326); males, 16.5 days; females, 13.7 days), rescued weight loss (27.1% control, 18.3% BSZ, p < 0.0001), delays symptom onset (whole animals, 24.9 days (p = 0.0011); males, 23.3 days; females, 26.4 days), delays disease onset (whole animals, 25.5 days (p = 0.0001); males, 21.1 days; females, 29.8 days) and affects global proteomic changes in the SOD1-G37R mouse model of ALS. In total, 51 proteins were found to be significantly differentially expressed (p < 0.05), including Ca3, Gan, Cplx2, Lrp4, Sqstm1, and 29 phosphorylation sites were differentially expressed and considered statistically significant, including T317 and T72 for neurofilaments light and heavy chain, respectively.Herein, we report that BSZ has demonstrated a favorable safety profile and compelling proof-of-concept efficacy in a ALS mouse model and has the potential to become a disease-modifying ALS therapeutic following further clinical development. Within a broader perspective of treatments for neurodegenerative diseases, BSZ offers a new paradigm for trifunctional small molecule targeting of oxidative stress that can mitigate neuronal deterioration and serve as a potential treatment.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Breast cancer (BC) is the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide and has a high recurrence rate. This study aimed to evaluate the expression levels of three biomarkers: DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1), histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1), and metallothionein 1E (MT1E) in BC patients.Peripheral blood and tissue samples from 95 female BC patients and 50 age-matched (±5 years) healthy female controls were analyzed using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Diagnostic potential was assessed through receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. In silico analyses identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs), Gene Ontology (GO) terms, pathway enrichment, correlation analysis, miRNA-mRNA interactions, and drug-gene networks.Both experimental and computational results revealed significantly higher levels of DNMT1 and HDAC1 but lower levels of MT1E in BC patients compared to controls (p-value < 0.0001). Furthermore, tumor expression of these genes correlated with molecular subtypes, showing distinct expression patterns in triple-negative BC (TNBC). Advanced-stage tumors also exhibited increased HDAC1 and DNMT1 expression. GO enrichment analysis indicated that these DEGs are involved in cell division, differentiation, and nuclear functions. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis linked DNMT1 to the p53 pathway, HDAC1 to mismatch repair, and MT1E to cytokine receptor interactions. The strongest gene correlations were DNMT1-ILF3, HDAC1-RBBP4, and MT1E-MT2A. Additionally, miRNA-mRNA interaction analysis revealed that DNMT1, HDAC1, and MT1E are targeted by multiple miRNAs, with the top interacting miRNAs being hsa-miR-103a-3p for DNMT1, hsa-miR-34a-5p for HDAC1, and hsa-miR-126-3p for MT1E. DNMT1 showed the highest number of miRNA interactions among the three genes. Moreover, 98 drugs were found to interact with these three genes. ROC analysis demonstrated promising diagnostic performance, with areas under the curve (AUC) of 0.916 for DNMT1, 0.792 for HDAC1, and 0.683 for MT1E (95% confidence interval [CI]).These findings suggest that DNMT1, HDAC1, and MT1E show potential as complementary biomarkers in BC diagnosis. However, further validation in larger cohorts and functional studies are warranted.Copyright © 2026 Sedigheh Akhtartavan et al. Analytical Cellular Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Understanding drivers of tuberculosis (TB) associated lung pathological damage is vital in identifying targets for host directed therapies (HDT). NETosis is a neutrophil specific cell death characterized by release of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs). The role of NETosis in TB-associated lung damage and disease pathogenesis is still poorly understood. We analysed human lung TB granuloma samples using a proteomics approach, which revealed enrichment of neutrophil-associated proteins in necrotic regions of caseous and cavitary granulomas. Using immunohistochemistry (IHC), we validated the abundance of neutrophil-associated proteins, including myeloperoxidase (MPO), cytochrome b-245 beta chain (CYBB) and neutrophil cytosolic factor 1(NCF1), as well as NETosis markers, neutrophil elastase (NE) and citrullinated H3, in necrotizing caseum of human TB granulomas. MPO protein expression was also more abundant in the plasma of TB patients compared to healthy and latently infected (LTBI) participants. MPO directly correlated with an inflammatory disease marker, IP-10. In addition, MPO and IP-10 colocalized in caseous lesions. In-vitro drug inhibition assays were used to investigate potential drivers of NETosis, with pharmaceutical inhibition of MPO, NE and CYBB resulting in reduction of NETosis induced by Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb). Using RT-qPCR we analysed the expression of 18 neutrophil associated genes in the blood of healthy (n = 20), latent TB infection (LTBI) (n = 20) and TB (n = 30) participants. We found that MPO, NCF1 and NCF2 were upregulated in the TB group. Furthermore, the NETosis-associated genes were induced in a human standardized antigen challenge model. Our data shows evidence of NETosis as an associate of lung pathological damage in TB and identifies key drivers of the neutrophil cell death that can be intercepted as potential HDT targets to reduce neutrophil driven lung pathological damage.© 2026. The Author(s).
Tissue function and homeostasis are sustained through dynamic interactions between resident cells and their surrounding microenvironment. In the skin, these niche-specific signals coordinate epithelial metabolism and secretory activity. Although reduced sweating is a widely recognized phenomena of aging, the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying eccrine sweat glands decline, particularly those involving age-associated niche remodeling, remain poorly understood. In this study, we combine multiomics profiling with functional assays to define an immune-epithelial circuit that governs sweat gland metabolism and is disrupted during aging. Spatial transcriptomics, single-cell RNA-sequencing, and immunostaining of aged murine paw and human palm skin reveal that structural shrinkage of eccrine sweat glands, elevated senescence-associated secretory phenotype factors, and dendritic cells (DCs) around sweat gland coils (SGCs) were significantly reduced. In youthful skin, DCs support sweat secretion by promoting oxidative phosphorylation SGCs through nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase-insulin receptor signaling. However, this signaling axis was perturbed with aging where SGCs secreted macrophage migration inhibitory factor, which signaled through major histocompatibility complex class II invariant chain (CD74) to impair the expression of lysosomal membrane protein and lysosomal protease in DCs through cytochrome b-245 beta chain, exacerbating DC dysfunction and reinforcing a deteriorating glandular niche. Our findings identify DCs as guardians of SGC metabolic homeostasis, revealing a reversible niche-dependent mechanism through DC-SGC crosstalk that drives age-related glandular decline.Copyright © 2026 Society for Investigative Dermatology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Knee osteoarthritis (OA) is a widespread joint disease with no disease-modifying treatments. Chondrocyte damage is a key process in knee OA and ferroptosis is lipid peroxidation-induced iron-dependent cell death that exacerbates the process of knee OA and aggravates an imbalance in the synthesis as well as degradation of matrix metallopeptidase 13 (MMP13) and type II collagen. The clinical diagnosis of knee OA mainly depends on imaging. Whether ferroptosis-related genes could be used as new biomarkers for the diagnosis of OA remains to be explored.A dataset was used to build a diagnostic model used to diagnose and differentiate patients with end-stage knee OA. Normalization and quality control of the three profiles was carried out using R 4.1.0.Analysis of a dataset (GSE114007) of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) found that the expression of 15 ferroptosis-related genes, including activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3), cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1A (CDKN1A), and cytochrome b-245 beta chain (CYBB), showed significant changes in osteoarthritic chondrocytes relative to normal subjects. Based on 15 ferroptosis-related genes, we developed and compared diagnostic models using different supervised learning algorithms.The diagnostic model based on the support vector machine gave a convincing diagnostic performance for both verifications (Area Under Curve [AUC] = 0.9601) and testing (AUC = 0.8725). The results collectively indicate that ferroptosis-related genes may play an indispensable role in knee OA and could be specific diagnostic biomarkers for knee OA.The Author(s). This is an open access article published by Thieme under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, permitting unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction so long as the original work is properly cited. (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
The diagnosis of chronic granulomatous disease (CGD), a congenital immunodeficiency affecting phagocyte function, remains a challenge for patients in Latin America. It is well established that dihydrorhodamine (DHR) flow cytometry is the most commonly used screening assay; however, few pediatric immunology centers in Brazil perform this test. This study reports data from a routine diagnostic workup for CGD conducted at a Brazilian children's hospital. A three-year prospective study was performed, enrolling children with clinical features suggestive of immunodeficiency who were screened using DHR. Sanger sequencing of the NCF1 (neutrophil cytosolic factor 1) and CYBB (cytochrome b-245, beta chain) genes was conducted in children with two consecutive abnormal DHR results. A total of 255 patients-62% males-with a median age of 3.2 years (range: 1 month-17.8 years) were evaluated. Six patients (2.4%) had abnormal DHR tests, and four of them (1.6%) received a definitive diagnosis of CGD. Most children presented with pneumonia and/or abscesses during the first year of life as the clinical manifestation of CGD. Two of the four diagnosed patients were receiving continuous antibiotics and two underwent transplantation. Pathogenic variants were identified in NCF1 (three cases) and CYBB (one case). The hospital-based diagnostic workup for CGD identified approximately one new case per 60 tested patients, indicating a high frequency of the disease in the study population. This approach may represent a valuable strategy for identifying new pediatric CGD cases in resource-limited settings.Copyright: de Melo KM, et al.
To investigate the differential expression of microRNA-144-3p in endometrial cells exposed to copper ions in vitro. The specific mechanism by which microRNA-144-3p is involved in Cu2+-induced damage to the human endometrial epithelial cells (HEECs) was explored.HEECs were cultured in copper-containing culture medium to simulate changes in the endometrium after copper intrauterine device (Cu-IUD) implantation. Reverse transcription quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) was used to detect the differential expression of miR-144-3p in HEECs after Cu2+ treatment. MiRNAs, siRNAs and related inhibitors were used to treat HEECs. The expression levels of related downstream genes were then analyzed by RT-qPCR, Western blotting and immunofluorescence to explore the specific mechanism involved.MiR-144-3p was significantly upregulated in the Cu2+-treated HEECs. The expression of P-NF-κB, MMP9, TGF-β3 and P-SMAD3 was significantly decreased in HEECs treated with 10 μg/mL Cu2+. MiR-144-3p regulated the expression of metallothionein 1A (MT1A) and thrombospondin-1 (THBS-1) in Cu2+-treated HEECs. The expression of P-NF-κB can be regulated by MT1A, and an inhibitor of P-NF-κB can significantly reduce the expression of MMP9 in Cu2+-treated HEECs. The expression of TGF-β3 can be regulated by THBS-1, and a TGF-β3 inhibitor can significantly reduce the expression of SMAD3 in Cu2+-treated HEECs. The proliferative capacity of HEECs treated with MMP9 or SMAD3 inhibitors was significantly reduced.The increased Cu2+ concentration led to the upregulation of miR-144-3p, further reducing the expression levels of its target genes (MT1A and THBS-1), which in turn downregulated the expression of NF-κB, MMP9, TGF-β3 and SMAD3, ultimately leading to increased endometrial cell damage and decreased cell proliferation.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to the Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
Cadmium (Cd), a heavy metal, is implicated in the development of estrogen receptor α (ERα)-positive breast cancers (BCs). However, controversy surrounds whether Cd is estrogenic or anti-estrogenic for the malignancy of in vivo animal models and human observational/epidemiological studies, a debate also presents in in vitro experiments. The development of ERα-positive BCs is stimulated by circulating 17β-estradiol (E2). Thus, potential biological interactions between E2 and Cd in the progression of ERα-positive BCs exist. Although the interactions between Cd and E2 at physiologically relevant levels (1 nM each) may not have been confirmed in vitro, it is likely to occur. Therefore, this study aims to investigate the interactions of chemicals in human BC MCF-7 cells (ERα-positive) using a sequential exposure system in which chemicals are added to cells every 24-48 h. Pretreatment with Cd, but not secondary treatment, interfered with E2-mediated oncogenic actions by inducing cell cycle arrest at the S phase. This was accompanied by changes in the expression of genes regulating the cell cycle checkpoint and upregulation of the tumor suppressor metallothionein 1F gene, which E2 suppressed. Paradoxically, ERα-mediated estrogenic pathways were upregulated. In conclusion, this study is the first to show that physiologically relevant levels of Cd may dampen E2-induced oncogenic events independent of the E2/ERα-mediated pathway.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Pre-eclampsia (PE) is a multisystem pregnancy disorder characterized by placental and maternal endothelial dysfunction, and affects approximately 5% to 7% of pregnancies worldwide, leading to significant maternal and neonatal morbidity and mortality. Mounting evidence indicates that placental oxidative stress (OS) plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of PE. However, the specific mechanisms associated with OS during the occurrence and progression of PE remain largely unknown. Thus, we aimed to identify the key molecules associated with OS and explore their potential mechanisms in PE. Transcriptome data were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus database, including 80 PE and 77 normal placental tissues. OS-related genes were identified using the Gene Ontology database. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analyses were performed to analyze the functions and pathways of the OS-related differentially expressed genes (OS-DEGs). Protein-protein interaction networks were constructed using the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes database, and hub genes were screened using molecular complex detection and CytoHubba. Finally, the diagnostic value and drug-gene interactions of the hub genes were evaluated. We identified 470 differentially expressed genes and 43 OS-DEGs. These genes were mainly enriched in OS-related biological processes, the HIF-1 and MAPK signaling pathways. Furthermore, 5 hub genes were identified: VEGFA, CCL2, mitogen-activated protein kinase 8 (MAPK8), HMOX1, and Cytochrome B-245 Beta Chain (CYBB). CYBB and MAPK8 had the highest diagnostic accuracies, with area under the curve values of 0.767 and 0.764, respectively. We predicted 43 potentially targeted drugs for PE treatment. CYBB and MAPK8 may be valuable biomarkers that mediate OS through multiple pathways to promote the occurrence and development of PE. We conclude from our study that OS has involvement in PE, and improved our understanding of OS-related molecular pathways in the pathogenesis of PE.Copyright © 2025 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Understanding the status and function of tumor-infiltrating immune cells is essential for improving immunotherapeutic effects and predicting the clinical response in human patients with carcinoma. However, little is known about tumor-infiltrating immune cells, and the corresponding research results in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) are limited.To investigate potential biomarker genes that are important for the development of HCC and to understand how immune cell subsets react throughout this process.Using single-cell RNA sequencing and T-cell receptor sequencing, the heterogeneity and potential functions of immune cell subpopulations from HCC tissue and normal tissue adjacent to carcinoma, as well as their possible interactions, were analyzed.Eight T-cell clusters from patients were analyzed and identified using bioinformatics, including six typical major T-cell clusters and two newly identified T-cell clusters, among which Fc epsilon receptor 1G+ T cells were characterized by the upregulation of Fc epsilon receptor 1G, tyrosine kinase binding protein, and T cell receptor delta constant, whereas metallothionein 1E+ T cells proliferated significantly in tumors. Differentially expressed genes, such as regulator of cell cycle, cysteine and serine rich nuclear protein 1, SMAD7 and metallothionein 1E, were identified as significantly upregulated in tumors and have potential as biomarkers. In association with T-cell receptor analysis, we inferred the clonal expansion characteristics of each T-cell cluster in HCC patients.We identified lymphocyte subpopulations and potential biomarker genes critical for HCC development and revealed the clonal amplification of infiltrating T cells. These data provide valuable resources for understanding the response of immune cell subsets in HCC.©The Author(s) 2025. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved.
Frailty is a complex geriatric syndrome resulting in decreased physiological reserve. While genetics plays a role, the underlying mechanisms remain unsolved. Metallothioneins (MTs), metal-binding proteins with high affinity for zinc, an essential mineral for many physiological functions, are involved in processes including oxidative stress and inflammation. We investigated the impact of genetic variations in MTs on frailty.448 subjects (235 females and 213 males, median age of 76 years) were categorized into three frailty groups (non-frail/pre-frail/frail), by hierarchical cluster analysis based on cognitive status (MMSE), functional capacity (ADL), and physical strength (HGS). Subjects were analyzed for selected SNPs in MT1A, MT1B, MT2A, and MT3 genes by PCR-RFLP.An association was found between the rs8052394-A/G (Lys51Arg) polymorphism in the MT1A gene and frailty in females both in binary (OR = 0.345, p = 0.037) and multinomial logistic regression (OR = 0.343, p = 0.036) corrected for age and sex, with carriers of the minor G-allele less likely to transition from non-frail to pre-frail status. Additionally, a significant association with albumin levels (beta = 0.231; p = 0.027) and a trend of association with CRP levels (beta = -1.563; p = 0.097) were observed for this SNP in non-frail females, both indicative of a low inflammatory status. However, Bonferroni correction for multiple SNPs and physiological parameters tested renders these results statistically non-significant.Although its associations do not survive Bonferroni correction, this exploratory study suggests a sex-specific influence of MT1A variability in frailty, likely affecting zinc availability, aligning with ongoing research on sex differences in frailty risk and progression. Larger studies are needed to validate these findings and clarify the mechanisms behind MTs' variability in frailty progression.
Intra-abdominal infection frequently progresses to sepsis, where the liver is an early and commonly injured organ. In a cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) mouse model combined with bulk and single‑cell RNA sequencings, we observed marked neutrophil infiltration in the liver that correlated with injury severity. Sepsis‑associated neutrophils displayed a pro‑inflammatory phenotype and specifically upregulated the divalent metal transporter solute carrier family 11 member 1 (SLC11A1). Conditional knockout of Slc11a1 in neutrophils (Ly6G-Cre+ Slc11a1f/f) significantly alleviated liver injury and improved survival. Mechanistically, SLC11A1 drives intracellular Fe2+ accumulation and reactive oxygen species production via the Fenton reaction, promoting the formation of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs). Hepatocytes were found to secrete C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 (CXCL10) through nuclear factor kappa B (NF‑κB) activation, which both recruit neutrophils and stimulates the JAK/STAT1/SLC11A1 axis, thereby enhancing NETs‑mediated pro‑inflammatory macrophage polarization. Clinically, peripheral blood CXCL10 levels correlated with liver injury markers in sepsis patients. Neutralization of CXCL10 using an anti-CXCL10 antibody or liver-specific knockdown of CXCL10 via Adeno-Associated Virus (AAV) reduced NETs formation and attenuated liver damage in CLP mice. This study delineates a "CXCL10-SLC11A1-NETs" signaling axis that exacerbates sepsis‑induced liver injury, offering a novel target for therapeutic intervention.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Mutations in CTNNB1 are recognized oncogenic drivers of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC); however, the downstream effector molecules and their prognostic significance remain incompletely defined. In this study, we developed a mutant CTNNB1 gene signature (MCGS) to predict CTNNB1 mutation status and to evaluate the prognostic relevance of the constituent genes.Hydrodynamic tail vein injection mouse models of HCC were generated by co-expressing Sleeping Beauty transposon/transposase and mutant CTNNB1 with either AKT-c-Myc or AKT-NRASG12V, followed by RNA sequencing of tumor tissues. Cross-species differential expression analyses were performed by integrating data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and the International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC). Machine-learning models were trained to identify MCGS. The prognostic value of signature genes was validated using public transcriptomic datasets and immunohistochemistry on an institutional tissue microarray (TMA) cohort.Mutant CTNNB1 markedly accelerated hepatocarcinogenesis in mice, leading to earlier tumor development and reduced survival. Transcriptomic profiling revealed enrichment of the Hippo and MAPK signaling pathways in CTNNB1-mutant HCCs. We established a 15-gene MCGS using a Categorical Boosting algorithm, which accurately predicted CTNNB1 mutation status (AUC = 0.957 in TCGA; 0.893 in ICGC). Among these genes, metallothionein-3 (MT3) emerged as a prognostic marker, with high expression independently associated with poorer overall survival in public datasets. Consistently, elevated MT3 protein expression on the TMA was also independently associated with worse overall and recurrence-free survival in our institutional cohort.We identified a robust mutant CTNNB1 gene signature capable of accurately predicting CTNNB1 mutation status, and uncovered MT3 as a novel, clinically relevant prognostic biomarker in HCC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Aortic dissection (AD) is a life-threatening vascular emergency characterized by medial degeneration and vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) loss. Although disruption of zinc homeostasis has been reported in patients with AD, how zinc ions and their regulatory proteins influence VSMC survival and disease progression remains unknown. In this study, single-cell analyses revealed that ferroptosis and zinc-related pathways were significantly enriched in VSMCs from patients with AD, showing a strong correlation between the two processes, and zinc levels were markedly elevated in dissected aortas. Furthermore, zinc exposure promoted ferroptosis in cultured primary human aortic smooth muscle cells (HASMCs). By integrating transcriptomic data from AD tissues and VSMC ferroptosis models, metallothionein-3 (MT3), a zinc-binding protein, was identified as a candidate regulator. Functional studies demonstrated that MT3 overexpression markedly attenuated lipid peroxidation, reduced reactive oxygen species accumulation, and protected VSMCs from ferroptotic cell death, whereas MT3 knockdown increased oxidative stress and exacerbated ferroptotic injury. Mechanistically, MT3 directly interacted with glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), enhanced its protein stability, without altering its transcriptional expression, and promoted glutathione synthesis, thereby activating the glutathione-GPX4 antioxidant defense pathway and mitigating oxidative injury. Notably, restoration of GPX4 effectively rescued the pro-ferroptotic effects of MT3 deficiency on HASMCs. These findings establish a previously unrecognized zinc-MT3-GPX4 axis as a critical determinant of VSMC ferroptosis in AD, linking zinc dysregulation to medial degeneration, and highlighting MT3 as a potential mechanistic candidate target to preserve vascular integrity and limit disease progression. KEY MESSAGES: Impaired zinc homeostasis is implicated in the development of aortic dissection (AD). Zinc-binding protein metallothionein 3 (MT3) mitigates lipid peroxidation and protects vascular smooth muscle cells from ferroptosis. MT3 directly interacts with glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) to prevent its lysosomal degradation, thereby enhancing the glutathione-GPX4 antioxidant defense pathway. MT3 is a potential mechanistic candidate target for preserving vascular integrity and limiting AD progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
Myocardial ischemia-reperfusion (MIR) injury remains the leading cause of adverse outcomes after myocardial infarction, and its prevention remains a major therapeutic challenge.The GSE160516 and GSE61592 datasets from the Gene Expression Omnibus database were analyzed to screen MIR-related differentially expressed genes. To simulate clinical MIR injury, male C57BL/6 mice were subjected to ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery for 30 minutes, followed by reperfusion for 24 hours.In this study, the protein-protein interaction network was generated based on the 34 common upregulated genes, and among them, 11 genes were identified as hub genes, including solute carrier family 11 member 1 (Slc11a1), a gene associated with immune response. Herein, the upregulation of myocardial Slc11a1 was validated in mice with MIR injury. Mice subjected to MIR had improved cardiac function when Slc11a1 was knocked down via myocardial injection of Slc11a1 small interfering RNA (siRNA): the infarcted areas reduced from 38.43±4.13% to 22.18±3.45%; CK-MB levels decreased from 12.01±3.11 to 5.84±1.24. Slc11a1 silencing also reduced infiltration of F4/80 macrophages, deactivated the p65 proinflammatory pathway, and decreased the generation of IL-6 and TNF-α. Myocardial oxidative stress induced by IR challenge was attenuated in mice receiving Slc11a1 siRNA.Our study demonstrates that the abnormal elevation of Slc11a1 contributes to IR-related myocardial injury.©The Author(s) 2026. Open Access. This article is licensed under a Creative Commons CC-BY International License.
Ferroptosis is a critical contributor to cardiomyocyte injury in acute myocardial infarction (AMI). This study aimed to identify key ferroptosis-associated genes and elucidate their roles in AMI. Transcriptomic datasets from AMI patients and healthy controls were analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). The role of the solute carrier family 11 member 1 (SLC11A1) was validated in vitro using a hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) model in H9c2 cardiomyocytes and in vivo using a murine AMI model. SLC11A1 expression was elevated in H/R-treated cardiomyocytes and infarcted murine hearts. SLC11A1 silencing reduced infarct size and improved cardiac function, and suppressed ferroptosis. Mechanistically, SLC11A1 led to the transcriptional suppression of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) mediated by the transcription factor specificity protein 1 (Sp1). This study identifies the SLC11A1-Sp1-GPX4 axis as a pivotal transcriptional regulator pathway driving ferroptosis in AMI. These findings highlight SLC11A1 as a promising therapeutic target in AMI.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42164494 is a review article
Complementary mass spectrometry-based approaches and molecular dynamics simulations were integrated to map Zn(II) distribution in partially metalated Zn4-6-metallothionein-3 species relevant to zinc metabolism. Sequential Zn(II) dissociation engages both the α- and β-domains through a structurally plastic, interdomain mechanism that underpins regulatory zinc buffering at physiological pZn.
Zinc (Zn) imbalance severely impairs plant growth, especially in perennial fruit crops chronically exposed to soilborne metal accumulation. However, the regulatory mechanisms underlying Zn detoxification in apple (Malus domestica) remain largely unknown. Here, we identified a high-mobility group protein MdHMGB15, transcript level and protein stability of which was increased under Zn treatment, suggesting that MdHMGB15 may play special roles in Zn stress tolerance. Subsequently, MdHMGB15 transgenic apple calli, Arabidopsis and tomato were generated, which showed that overexpression of MdHMGB15 significantly enhanced Zn tolerance, which was reflected by improved biomass, reduced oxidative damage, and lower electrolyte leakage under excess Zn. Furthermore, electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA), yeast one-hybrid analyses (Y1H), and dual-luciferase reporter assays demonstrated that MdHMGB15 directly bound to the AT-rich cis-elements within the promoters of genes related to metal homeostasis (Heavy metal-associated isoprenylated plant protein 37 (MdHIP37), Heavy metal ATPase 3 (MdHMA3), Heavy metal ATPase 5 (MdHMA5), Metallothionein 3 (MdMT3), Metal tolerance protein 1 (MdMTP1), and Natural resistance-associated macrophage protein 5 (MdNRAMP5)) and activated their transcription. Collectively, these findings revealed MdHMGB15 as an upstream transcriptional activator that coordinated Zn sequestration, efflux, and oxidative stress mitigation through direct induction of metal transporter genes. This study provides novel mechanistic insights into functions of MdHMGB15 and identifies a promising target for improving Zn tolerance in apple and other fruit crops.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and multiple sclerosis (MS) are devastating adult-onset neurological diseases with distinct pathological manifestations. Although growing evidence implicates copper dysregulation in both diseases, our understanding of this connection remains incomplete. In this study, we investigated metallothionein-3 (MT3), which is a key regulator of copper metabolism in the central nervous system (CNS), and its relationship to copper in the ALS and MS spinal cord. Using combined quantitative mass spectrometry approaches and immunohistochemical observations, we found a significant decrease in ALS and MS spinal cord MT3 levels compared to controls. This was correlated with levels of copper and MT3-copper binding, highlighting a strong relationship between copper and MT3 levels. These findings demonstrate decreased MT3 expression alongside copper as a common feature of ALS and MS supporting previously reported evidence for copper dysregulation in these diseases.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42472607 is a review article
Mechanical ventilation is a key respiratory support measure for critically ill patients. During improper ventilation, continuous exposure of alveolar epithelial cells (AECs) to abnormal mechanical environment can lead to ventilator-induced lung injury (VILI). Heat shock transcription factor 1 (HSF1) is a stress-responsive transcriptional regulator that orchestrates cytoprotective heat shock protein (HSP) expression in response to diverse stresses, including thermal and oxidative stress, but its role in stretch-induced AEC injury remains unclear. In this study, A549 cells were subjected to biaxial cyclic stretch to model mechanical stress associated with VILI in vitro. Consistent with the established role of YAP as a mechanotransduction regulator activated by cyclic stretch, we observed YAP signaling activation in our biaxial stretch system. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that mechanical stretch markedly induced the expression of HSP genes, and subsequent validation confirmed that stretch activated HSF1 and increased HSF1-dependent HSP expression. Pharmacological inhibition of HSF1 with DTHIB or CRISPR-Cas9-mediated HSF1 knockout attenuated stretch-induced HSP expression, while exacerbating ROS accumulation, cell death, and IL-6 production. Moreover, oxidative-stress-associated HSF1 targets were significantly enriched among stretch-induced genes, antioxidant treatment partially suppressed stretch-induced HSF1 activation, and HSF1 knockout increased oxidative stress after stretch. These findings indicate that HSF1 functions as an endogenous cytoprotective feedback mechanism in mechanically stretched AECs by inducing HSP expression and limiting stretch-induced oxidative damage and inflammatory injury. Activation of the HSF1-HSP axis may therefore represent a potential strategy for mitigating epithelial injury during VILI.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
SUMO1 (small ubiquitin-like modifier 1) is a central feature of post-translational SUMOylation, modifying a broad range of substrate proteins. SUMO1 itself is prone to succination, i.e., a post-translational Michael addition of cysteine onto fumarate, which results in the formation of succinated SUMO1 with modified properties. The present study assesses the structural and gas-phase stability modifications in SUMO1 induced by diethyl fumarate succination using advanced ion mobility spectrometry-mass spectrometry (IMS-MS) techniques. Among them, collision-induced unfolding (CIU) and slice-CIU highlight a modified unfolding process resulting from the creation of specific charge-dipole interactions involving the appended dicarbonyl moiety. The experimental results are further supported by molecular dynamics simulations to understand, at the atomistic level, the mechanisms underlying the CIU of gaseous (derivatized) SUMO1 ions.© 2026 American Society for Mass Spectrometry. Published by American Chemical Society. All rights reserved.
Heat shock transcription factor 1 (HSF1) is a master regulator of proteostasis and a compelling yet challenging anticancer target because of the scarcity of direct small-molecule inhibitors and the lack of canonical ligand-binding pockets. Here, we report the discovery of compound 1168, a borylated aza-arene identified by differential scanning fluorimetry (DSF)-based screening against the HSF1 DNA-binding domain (DBD). Orthogonal biophysical validation by microscale thermophoresis (MST) demonstrated direct binding of 1168 to HSF1-DBD with a dissociation constant (Kd) of 23.8 μM, while electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) showed that 1168 effectively disrupted HSF1-DBD/HSE complex formation and nearly completely abolished DNA binding at 12.5 μM under the assay conditions. Functionally, 1168 suppressed proliferation across multiple cancer cell lines and showed enhanced sensitivity in androgen-dependent prostate cancer cells. Mechanistically, 1168 inhibited HSF1 signaling, reduced the expression of downstream effectors including HSP70 and HSP90, and attenuated HSE-driven transcriptional activity. Furthermore, 1168 reduced the expression of HSF1 and impaired heat shock-induced HSF1 Ser326 phosphorylation and trimerization, thereby suppressing HSF1 activation. Importantly, the inhibitory effect of 1168 on HSP70 expression was markedly attenuated upon HSF1 knockdown, supporting HSF1-dependent activity in cells. Collectively, these findings identify 1168 as a direct HSF1-DBD-binding inhibitor and establish borylated aza-arenes as a promising chemotype for the development of HSF1-targeted anticancer agents.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
The molecular logic of how site-specific DNA recognition by a transcription factor (TF) is transduced into macroscopic protein condensation remains a fundamental puzzle in chemical biology. Here, we unveil that the structured DNA-binding domain (DBD) of a TF acts as an entropic switch to regulate the release of the intrinsically disordered region (IDR). Using high-resolution solution NMR spectroscopy, we demonstrate that DNA binding significantly shifts the conformational equilibrium of the DBD toward a highly dynamic state. This conformational shift allosterically triggers the release of the IDR, thereby promoting macroscopic biomolecular condensation via multivalent interactions between the IDR and other molecules. Our findings define a mechanism of entropy-driven allostery, providing a structural and thermodynamic basis for how DNA-encoded information is transduced into macroscopic phase behavior.© 2026 The Author(s). Angewandte Chemie International Edition published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Poultry farmers in tropical, subtropical, and temperate climates have challenges due to heat stress caused by heat waves. Egypt's already dry climate will become even more severe due to climate change. The aim of the experiment was to examine the impact of N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) as antioxidant on growth performance, biochemical indicators, heat shock protein related genes and hepatic morphology for broiler chicks under heat stress. Two hundred and forty one-week-old male broiler chicks (Cobb 500) with an average initial body weight of 158.81 ± 8.03 g were used in a completely randomized design with four treatments and ten replicates for 35 days. The basal diet was fed to the first group. The second (NAC1), third (NAC3), and fourth (NAC5) ones were dietary supplemented with 1, 3, and 5 g/kg NAC, respectively until 35 days old. Body weight (BW) and body weight gain (BWG) were improved (p ˂ 0.05) in N-acetyl cysteine supplemented groups with at 3 g/ kg while feed conversion ratio (FCR) was improved in NAC3 and NAC5 respectively. Biochemical indices were improved by NAC supplementation compared to control group without negative effects on hematological parameters. Upregulation (p < 0.001) of growth hormone related genes (growth hormone (GH), growth hormone receptors (GHR), and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1)) was recorded in NAC3 group in comparison with other groups. Also, upregulation (p < 0.05) of antioxidant-related genes (catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase 1 (GPX1), and superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1)) of NAC3 group was shown. Meanwhile, the genes associated with heat shock proteins (heat shock transcription factor 1 (HSF1), heat shock protein 70 (HSP70), and heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) showed downregulations (p < 0.05) in the NAC3 group compared to others. A notable reduction in congestion and erythrocytic extravasation was shown in the NAC3 group. Also, the morphology of the hepatocytes was more similar to normal. Collectively, dietary N-acetyl cysteine supplementation at a level of 3 g/kg ameliorates the adverse impacts of heat stress in broilers regarding growth performance, biochemical indicators, antioxidants and heat shock protein related genes and hepatic morphology.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Olfaction is closely associated with aging, whereas the impact of repeated olfactory stimulation on aging process remains unclear. Therefore, we attempt to examine the anti-aging effects of the odors generated by the Maillard reaction (MR) in Caenorhabditis elegans. Chemotaxis assays revealed that nematodes were attracted to MR odors, which was abolished in the odr-3 loss-of-function mutant. These results indicated that the attraction to MR odor is caused by the olfactory system. Among the potent volatile compounds, 2,5-dimethyl-4-hydroxy-3(2H)-furanone attracted the most, which was mediated by AWC neurons. Furthermore, exposure to MR odors extended lifespan, improved motility, and enhanced stress resilience. MR odor upregulated mRNA expressions of ctl-1, ctl-3, hsf-1, hsp-16.2, and hsp-70 in C. elegans. This upregulation was not observed in hsf-1 mutants, suggesting that the longevity-promoting effect depended on HSF-1. Our findings demonstrated that inhalation of odors generated by the MR promotes longevity via olfactory stimulation in C. elegans.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Japan Society for Bioscience, Biotechnology, and Agrochemistry. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site-for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Cells can be exposed to many different stimuli that induce a variety of stresses, such as oxidative stress and proteotoxic stress of the cytoplasm, endoplasmic reticulum or mitochondria. These types of stresses trigger conserved molecular pathways (e.g., heat shock response, unfolded protein response, and autophagy) that can restore cellular homeostasis. Dysfunction (deficiency or hyperactivity) of these pathways is associated with aging and pathologies such as neurodegenerative diseases, diabetes and cancer. The basic molecular machinery of these stress response pathways has been elucidated, but how these pathways interact remains a vibrant area of research. Here, we show that the heat shock transcription factor-1 (HSF-1), the master regulator of the heat shock response, is required for efficient activation of the endoplasmic reticulum unfolded protein response (UPRER) in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. Tolerance against tunicamycin-induced ER stress also requires HSF-1 activity. We found that mRNA levels of several genes involved in the UPRER are regulated by HSF1 in human cell lines. These results suggest that HSF-1 plays a critical role in the cellular response to ER stress.© 2026. The Author(s).
The success of fertilization largely depends on semen quality. However, semen cryopreservation can impair sperm function and reduce conception rates, thereby hindering the repopulation of threatened species, including Eld's deer (Rucervus eldii). Despite its importance, information on the effects of cryopreservation on sperm protein composition in Eld's deer remains limited. This study investigated the proteomic profiles of sperm from Siamese and Burmese Eld's deer at three stages-fresh, pre-freeze, and post-thaw-using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Comparative analysis revealed distinct protein expression patterns across stages. A total of 2294 proteins were identified, of which 16 and 14 were significantly differentially expressed between fresh and pre-freeze sperm and between fresh and cryopreserved sperm, respectively. Increased levels of coiled-coil domain-containing protein 136 (CCDC136) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) in pre-freeze sperm suggested cytoskeletal stabilization and immune activation during cooling. Post-thaw sperm showed decreased levels of nucleoside diphosphate kinase A (NME1) and zinc finger protein-like 1 (ZFPL1), indicating metabolic and chromatin disruption, whereas elevated cullin-4B (CUL4B) and small ubiquitin-like modifier 1 (SUMO1) reflected activation of DNA repair and protein turnover pathways. These molecular alterations were consistent with reduced post-thaw motility, viability, and membrane and acrosome integrity, highlighting key stress-response mechanisms. The identified proteins may serve as biomarkers for semen quality assessment and inform optimized cryopreservation strategies, thereby supporting conservation efforts for Eld's deer.Copyright © 2026 Society for Biology of Reproduction & the Institute of Animal Reproduction and Food Research of Polish Academy of Sciences in Olsztyn. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Dermatomyositis is a rare autoimmune disease that typically affects the skin, muscle and respiratory system. Patients with dermatomyositis usually require prompt treatment with intense immunosuppression to reduce disease progression and multiorgan damage. A previously well male in his 40s initially presented to an emergency department with severe neck swelling. He was reviewed initially by ear, nose and throat surgeons for a probable deep neck space infection. Having been cleared of this as a cause, he was referred to clinical immunology for investigation and treatment of suspected idiopathic angioedema. A creatine kinase level was promptly requested due to the atypical nature of neck oedema that was inconsistent with angioedema, along with the presence of skin and nail changes. The patient was given a provisional diagnosis of dermatomyositis and subsequently was shown to have a positive small ubiquitin-like modifier-1 activating enzyme (SAE1) autoantibody and typical muscle biopsy. This case highlights non-histamine and non-bradykinin-mediated neck swelling as an unusual presentation of dermatomyositis that manifested with dysphagia and significant muscle involvement requiring prompt treatment.© BMJ Publishing Group Limited 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Prostate cancer is the predominant malignancy in males, with bone metastasis representing a defining characteristic of its progression. Bone tissue involvement significantly deteriorates patient quality of life and incurs substantial healthcare expenditure. Emerging evidence suggests a potential link between cuproptosis and tumor biology, thereby identifying cuproptosis-related genes (CRGs) as promising biomarkers for bone metastatic prostate cancer (BMPC). Consequently, this bioinformatics study aimed to identify specific biomarkers and establish a robust diagnostic model.To conduct this study, we downloaded publicly available datasets on prostate cancer bone metastasis from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database and integrated them after a rigorous standardization process to address batch effects. Following differential expression analysis to identify the upregulated and downregulated genes, comprehensive functional annotation was performed using Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), gene set variation analysis (GSVA), and immune infiltration profile analyses were performed. Multidimensional analysis identified 24 cuproptosis-related differentially expressed genes (CRDEGs). Based on 23 of these CRDEGs, a support vector machine (SVM) diagnostic model was created and further optimized using the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression, ultimately focusing on 13 key genes. The predictive accuracy of the model was validated using a receiver operating characteristic curve analysis. To elucidate the molecular interactions, protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks and GeneMANIA prediction results were analyzed, along with regulatory network analysis to identify potential therapeutic targets.In total, 3,401 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) (1,744 upregulated and 1,657 downregulated genes) were identified. Among them, 24 CRDEGs were closely linked to copper metabolism and likely influenced tumor cell survival and migration, including Metallothionein 1M (MT1M), Heat Shock Protein Family D (Hsp60) Member 1 (HSPD1), and Glutathione Peroxidase 4 (GPX4). GO and KEGG enrichment highlighted processes, such as "response to copper ion" and "copper ion detoxification", implicating these genes in prostate cancer bone metastasis. The diagnostic model, constructed via SVM using 13 key genes selected by LASSO regression, exhibited excellent discriminatory ability, with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.97. PPI analysis revealed dense interactions among the key genes, which was corroborated by GeneMANIA predictions. Exploration of the regulatory network revealed upstream transcription factors (TFs) and downstream pathways that may serve as therapeutic targets for BMPC.This bioinformatics study identified cuproptosis-related biomarkers and established a high-performance diagnostic model specifically targeting BMPC, despite limitations in sample size and experimental validation. These findings suggested potential molecular mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of bone metastases in prostate cancer and provided a computational foundation for the development of early detection strategies and targeted therapeutic interventions. Future research should focus on increasing cohort sizes and integrating in vitro and in vivo experiments to further confirm the potential clinical implications of the identified biomarkers.© AME Publishing Company.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41827858 is a review article
The aim of this study was to investigate the regulatory roles of distinct signaling cascades within the death receptor pathway in host cell apoptosis induced by Eimeria tenella (E. tenella); to this end, primary chicken embryo cecal epithelial cell culture, gene silencing, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), Hoechst-Annexin V/PI apoptosis staining, hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining, and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) were employed. At 4, 24, 72, and 120 h post-inoculation (hpi) with E. tenella sporozoites, the proportion of apoptosis in six treatment groups [Group C, Group T0 (E. tenella infection group), Group T1 (E. tenella + Fas SiRNA), Group T2 (E. tenella + TRAIL SiRNA), Group T3 (E. tenella + TNFR1 SiRNA), and Group T4 (E. tenella + NC SiRNA)] and the dynamic changes in Fas cell surface death receptor (Fas), tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL), tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 (TNFR1), TNF receptor-associated death domain (TRADD), Fas-associated death domain (FADD), and death domain-associated protein (Daxx) expression and caspase-8 activity in the cells were determined. The results demonstrated that, from 4 to 120 hpi, the Fas and TNFR1 mRNA expression levels in Group T0's host cells were significantly higher than those in Group C (p < 0.05 or p < 0.01). At 72 and 120 hpi, TRAIL mRNA expression in Group T0's host cells was significantly or highly significantly elevated compared to that in Group C (p < 0.05 or p < 0.01). From 24 to 120 hpi, the expression levels of the FADD and Daxx genes, caspase-8 activity, and apoptotic rates in Group T1's host cells were significantly lower than those in Group T4 (p < 0.05). At 72 and 120 hpi, the FADD expression, caspase-8 activity, and apoptotic rates in Group T2's host cells were significantly reduced relative to Group T4 (p < 0.05). Additionally, at 4 hpi, TRADD gene expression in Group T3's host cells was significantly lower than that in Group T4 (p < 0.05), while the apoptotic rate was significantly higher (p < 0.05). However, from 24 to 120 hpi, the TRADD expression, caspase-8 activity, and apoptotic rates in Group T3's host cells were significantly lower than those in Group T4 (p < 0.05). The results indicated that, in the early stages of E. tenella development, TNFR1 overexpression promoted TRADD mRNA expression, thereby inhibiting the apoptosis of E. tenella host cells. In the middle and late developmental stages of E. tenella, the Fas-FADD, Fas-Daxx, TRAIL-FADD, and TNFR1-TRADD apoptotic pathways were all activated, collectively facilitating host cell apoptosis. The pro-apoptotic effects of these pathways were ranked in descending order, as follows: Fas signaling pathway > TNFR1 signaling pathway > TRAIL signaling pathway.
The alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT) pathway is a recombination-based telomere maintenance mechanism used by a subset of human cancers and is characterized by telomere clustering within telomere-associated promyelocytic leukemia (PML) nuclear bodies (APBs). Although ALT telomeres exhibit reduced nucleosome density, they are paradoxically enriched for heterochromatin-associated factors, raising questions about how chromatin state contributes to ALT. Here, we use a targeted system to locally modulate heterochromatin features at telomeres. We show that telomeric heterochromatin promotes telomere clustering and multiple hallmarks of APB-associated telomere processing in ALT-positive (ALT+) cells. Remarkably, molecular tethering of HP1α at telomeres is sufficient to nucleate PML nuclear bodies in non-ALT cells and, in specific contexts, induce biomarkers of ALT-like recombination. We further demonstrate that heterochromatin-driven PML-telomere colocalization is inhibited by α-thalassemia/mental retardation, X-linked and death domain-associated protein (ATRX/DAXX), factors frequently mutated in ALT+ tumors. Together, these findings establish telomeric heterochromatin as a driver of telomere clustering and PML nuclear body assembly, shaping ALT-associated subnuclear compartmentalization.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The cytosine analogue 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (decitabine; DAC) covalently inhibits DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1), the maintenance DNA methyltransferase, and induces SUMOylation of DNA-trapped DNMT1, promoting proteasomal degradation. However, the regulation of DNMT1 SUMOylation and its biological impact remain unclear. Here, using interphase Xenopus egg extracts that reconstitute maintenance DNA methylation in vitro, we identify death domain-associated protein (DAXX) as a regulator of SUMOylation on chromatin-retained, inactive DNMT1. First, adding 5-aza-dCTP, the triphosphate form of decitabine, induced DNMT1 accumulation on chromatin and robust SUMO2/3 conjugation. Chromatin mass spectrometry (CHROMASS) revealed DAXX enrichment on 5-aza-dCTP-treated chromatin in a SUMO-dependent manner, and DAXX depletion suppressed 5-aza-dCTP-induced DNMT1 SUMOylation. Furthermore, GSK-3484862, a non-covalent DNMT1 inhibitor, drove DNMT1 accumulation on chromatin and triggered DAXX-dependent DNMT1 SUMOylation. We also demonstrated that DAXX loss increased decitabine sensitivity in the myeloid leukaemia (AML) cell line THP-1. Together, these findings show that DAXX promotes SUMOylation of DNMT1 trapped on DNA under both covalent and non-covalent trapping conditions.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Japanese Biochemical Society.
Nucleolar and spindle-associated protein 1 (NUSAP1) is critical for cancer progression. However, its function in cancers is context-dependent, and emerging evidence indicates that NUSAP1 possesses tumor suppressor functions, although the underlying mechanisms remain uncharted. In this study, NUSAP1 depletion is found to significantly increases the proliferation, migration, and invasion of triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) cells in vitro and promotes TNBC progression in vivo, suggesting that NUSAP1 is a tumor suppressor in TNBC. Mechanistically, NUSAP1 bridges HIFα and the transcriptional repressor death domain-associated protein (DAXX) through its microtubule-associated domain (MAD) to recruit the methyltransferase SETDB1, thereby attenuating HIF transcriptional activity and the expression of its target genes by depositing the H3K9me3 repressive mark on hypoxia response elements (HREs). Intriguingly, an engineered MAD of NUSAP1, designated as Tumor Suppressor-MAD (TS-MAD), is developed, which effectively abrogates HIF transcriptional activity by bridging the DAXX-HIF interaction, consequently inhibiting HIF-driven TNBC progression. Moreover, NUSAP1 is identified as a novel HIF-repressed gene in TNBC cells, and its expression level shows a negative correlation with clinical outcomes in TNBC patients. These findings establish an HIF-NUSAP1 double-negative feedback loop in TNBC and validate TS-MAD as a potential therapeutic strategy for HIF-driven cancer.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40869136 is a review article
Cisplatin is one of effect chemotherapeutic drugs for triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). However, cisplatin chemoresistance often generate in a notable proportion of TNBC patients, leading therapeutic failure. Thus, identification of key regulatory mechanisms for chemoresistance is important. Here, we aimed to study the functions and regulatory mechanisms of CLEC3B in cisplatin chemoresistance in TNBC.MTT assay, colony formation assay and Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) assay were employed to investigate the role of CLEC3B in cisplatin (CDDP) resistance in TNBC. Fe2+ Current assay and MDA level assay were used to determine CLEC3B's role in ferroptosis. Co-Immunoprecipitation was used to determine the interaction proteins of CLEC3B. Western blotting assay were performed to determine CLEC3B's role in solute carrier family 39 member 8 (SLC39A8) and solute carrier family 39 member 14 (SLC39A14) levels.Here, we find that CLEC3B was downregulated in TNBC tissues, especially in relapsed TNBC tissues. TNBC patients with high CLEC3B levels had better prognosis than those with low CLEC3B levels after chemotherapy. Functional assays showed that CLEC3B promoted CDDP chemosensitivity. Mechanistic assays found that CLEC3B promoted CDDP chemosensitivity via inducing ferroptosis. Moreover, CLEC3B interacted with SLC39A8 and SLC39A14 and knockdown of them reversed the effect of CLEC3B overexpression on chemosensitivity.In summary, CLEC3B promotes chemosensitivity via interacting with SLC39A8 and SLC39A14 to induce ferroptosis.© 2025. The Author(s).
Classical well differentiated neuroendocrine tumors (C-NETs) have plasmacytoid morphology and neuroendocrine differentiation. Oncocytic NETs (O-NETs) have been shown to be more clinically aggressive. Whether O-NETs are more akin to C-NETs or poorly differentiated neuroendocrine carcinomas (PDNECs) is not established.Clinicopathologic characteristics and immunohistochemical expression of death domain-associated protein (DAXX), α-thalassemia/mental retardation syndrome X-linked genes (ATRX), retinoblastoma 1, p53, and SMAD4 in 30 O-NETs (25 pancreatic and 4 from luminal gastrointestinal tract) was compared to 32 C-NETs (23 pancreatic and 8 from luminal gastrointestinal tract). Whole exome sequencing was performed in a subset of each cohort.O-NETs were male-predominant (65.6%) and had higher mean Ki-67 index (7.4% versus 2.9% in C-NETs) (P = 0.03), corresponding to more grade 2 or above (53.3%) tumors. O-NET patients had more advanced disease (pT3/pT4, 75% versus 36.8%) (P = 0.024), distant metastasis (50% versus 25%) (P = 0.042), progression (increased size/recurrence/new metastases) (n = 8 versus 3; P = 0.1), and death (n = 3 versus 1; P = 0.32). Forty percent of O-NETs (versus 12.5% of C-NETs; P = 0.041) showed DAXX/ATRX loss, with one showing coexisting retinoblastoma 1 and SMAD4 loss. P53 staining pattern was wild type in all cases. Whole exome sequencing of 10 cases showed DAXX, ATRX, and multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 alterations in O-NETs and C-NETs, and coexisting DNMT3A and MTOR alterations in one O-NET.O-NET subtype is associated with advanced disease and unfavorable outcomes compared to C-NETs. O-NETs are cytologically distinct, male-predominant tumors that often present with higher grade and advanced disease. Their aggressive behavior is possibly related to frequent DAXX/ATRX loss and less likely PDNEC-related molecular alterations. Pathologists should be mindful of this aggressive morphologic subtype and clearly convey its presence in pathology reports.Copyright © 2025 American Society of Cytopathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) holds the third position in global cancer prevalence mortality. Although chemotherapy is a conventional treatment, recent investigations have shed light on the therapeutic potential of the cGAS cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS)-stimulator of interferon genes (STING) pathway in CRC management. Despite the primary role of the death domain-associated protein (Daxx) in cellular apoptosis, its influence on the regulation of cGAS-STING activation remains elusive.The Daxx degradation and speck formation were conducted using immunofluorescence and Western blotting. The Daxx knock-down and over-expression in CRC cells were performed to detect in vivo and in vitro migration, proliferation, cGAS-STING activation, and immune responses.Our study reveals that treatment with irinotecan (CPT-11) and oxaliplatin (OXA) significantly accelerated the Daxx degradation and diminished the formation of Daxx specks within the nucleus of CRC cells. Genetic elimination of Daxx enhanced the irinotecan and oxaliplatin-induced suppression of proliferation and migration in CRC cells, and overexpression of Daxx resulted in similar results. Mechanistically, Daxx overexpression reduced DNA damage repair by restraining homologous recombination (HR) over non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ), which suppressed TBK1 and IRF3 phosphorylation downstream of the cGAS-STING signal. In a murine model of CT-26 tumors, Daxx knockdown amplified the OXA-mediated tumor growth inhibition by promoting STING activation and immune responses.Our findings show that the degradation of nuclear Daxx potentiates the cGAS-STING pathway, thereby bolstering the efficacy of chemotherapy.© 2025 The Authors.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42446461
Skipped: PubMed ID 42092578 is a review article
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), characterized by the absence of effective therapeutic targets, remains a major clinical challenge with poor prognosis. The identification of novel molecular targets is therefore crucial for developing effective treatment strategies. Eukaryotic elongation factor 2 kinase (eEF2K) is highly expressed in TNBC and known to promote tumor progression; however, the precise mechanisms underlying its oncogenic role remain elusive. In this study, we identified poly(rC)-binding protein 2 (PCBP2) as a previously unrecognized downstream substrate of eEF2K. Analysis of clinical TNBC specimens revealed a positive correlation between eEF2K and PCBP2 protein expression levels. Further studies demonstrated that site-specific phosphorylation of PCBP2 at serine 189 (Ser189) markedly promoted the malignant phenotype of TNBC cells. Mechanistically, eEF2K-mediated phosphorylation at Ser189 stabilized PCBP2 by preventing its ubiquitin-proteasome-dependent degradation. This phosphorylation-dependent stabilization, in turn, enabled PCBP2 to promote the mRNA stability of pro-oncogenic genes, including TNC, SOX5, and ITGB3, thereby driving TNBC progression. Collectively, these findings not only reveal PCBP2 as a critical downstream effector of eEF2K, but also highlight the eEF2K-PCBP2 signaling axis as a promising therapeutic target for TNBC.© The author(s).
Significant genetic heterogeneity has hindered the identification of molecular targets and development of effective targeted therapies for triple negative breast cancer. Currently available targeted therapies are not curative for TNBC patients. Eukaryotic Elongation Factor-2 kinase (eEF2K) is a clinically significant proto-oncogenic therapeutic target linking this atypical alpha kinase to poor patient survival and a key driver of tumor growth and progression in TNBC, positioning it as a critical and emerging molecular target. Development of eEF2K inhibitors for clinical translation has been challenging due to the unknown three-dimensional structure and lack of potent and selective eEF2K inhibitors. Here, we employed a homology modeling, in silico physics-based molecular simulations studies to rationally design, synthesize and in vitro and in vivo identification a novel potent eEF2K inhibitor. The lead compound-2I demonstrated a potential to engage in covalent interactions with eEF2K enzyme, as suggested by in silico covalent docking and static interaction analyses, and significant in vitro inhibitory activity and suppressed primary and multidrug resistant TNBC cell proliferation at submicromolar concentrations, induced ferroptosis and apoptosis, while having no impact on normal breast epithelial cells. In vivo systemic injection of the eEF2K inhibitor encapsulated in single-lipid nanoparticles demonstrated remarkable therapeutic efficacy and suppressing tumor growth in multiple orthotopic TNBC xenograft models in mice with no sign of toxicity. eEF2K inhibition synergistically enhanced the efficacy of standard chemotherapeutics such as paclitaxel. Our results indicate that the novel eEF2K-targeted nanotherapy is safe and has a significant potential for clinical translation as a monotherapy or in combination with chemotherapy for treatment of patients with TNBC or other eEF2K-dependent solid cancers.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Objective: To explore the regulatory mechanism of transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 2 (TRPM2) on the osteogenic differentiation capacity of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMMSCs), and to clarify the role of TRPM2-regulated mitophagy in the progression of periodontitis. Methods: Twelve TRPM2 gene knockout (TRPM2-/-) mice and twelve wild-type (WT) mice were used in this study. A periodontitis model was established by silk ligation on the maxillary second molars of mice, with sham operation performed in the control group, and the modeling lasted for 10 days. The mice were divided into four groups (n=6 per group): WT sham operation group, WT periodontitis group, TRPM2-/- sham operation group, and TRPM2-/- periodontitis group. In the periodontitis group, silk ligation was performed on the maxillary second molars of mice, while no silk ligation was conducted in the sham operation group. Micro-CT was employed to collect imaging data for three-dimensional reconstruction. CTvox and CTAn v1.15.4.0 software were used to quantify the distance from the cementoenamel junction to the alveolar bone crest (CEJ-ABC) and bone volume fraction (BV/TV) in maxillary bone tissues of the mice in four groups. Statistical analysis was performed subsequently. Immunohistochemical staining was conducted to detect the expression intensity of Runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) in periodontal tissues in maxillary bone tissues of the mice in four groups. BMMSCs were isolated from the femurs of the two types mice and cultured in vitro, followed by induction for osteogenic differentiation. Alizarin red S (ARS) staining and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) staining were used to evaluate the osteogenic differentiation potential of BMMSCs. Western blotting (WB) was performed to determine the expression levels of osteogenic-related markers [RUNX2, bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP2), ALP, osteopontin (OPN)]. Meanwhile, transmission electron microscopy (TEM) was used to observe intracellular mitophagy status. WB was applied to detect the expression of autophagy-related proteins [microtubule-associated proteins 1A/1B light chain 3 (LC3), PTEN-induced putative kinase 1 (PINK1), Parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase (Parkin)], and immunofluorescence colocalization labeling was used to assess the fluorescence intensity of LC3, translocase of the outer mitochondrial membrane 20 (Tomm20), and Lysosomal-associated membrane protein (LAMP). Results: No statistically significant differences were observed in bone volume fraction, trabecular number, and trabecular separation between TRPM2-/- and WT mice (all P>0.05). However, the buccal and palatal CEJ-ABC values in the TRPM2-/- periodontitis group [(265.40±21.72) μm and (273.30±17.56) μm, respectively] were significantly lower than those in the WT periodontitis group [(416.50±20.90) μm and (428.00±17.59) μm, respectively] (both P<0.001). In addition, the relative expression level of RUNX2 in periodontal tissues of the TRPM2-/- periodontitis group [(15.03±0.48) %] was significantly higher than that of the WT periodontitis group [(11.95±0.40) %] (P<0.001). In vitro experiments (ALP and ARS staining) demonstrated that the osteogenic differentiation capacity of BMMSCs derived from TRPM2-/- mice was significantly enhanced compared with that from WT mice. WB results showed that the expression levels of osteogenic-related markers (RUNX2, BMP2, ALP, OPN) in BMMSCs from TRPM2-/- mice were all upregulated compared with WT mice (all P<0.05, respectively), and so as the protein levels of mitophagy-related indicators (LC3 and BECLIN1)(both P<0.001). Furthermore, TRPM2 deficiency remarkably upregulated the expression of proteins related to the PINK1/Parkin pathway (all P<0.001). Conclusions: TRPM2 regulates the osteogenic differentiation capacity of BMMSCs through mitophagy, thereby participating in the progression of periodontitis. Therefore, targeting TRPM2 is expected to serve as a novel and effective strategy for the treatment of periodontitis.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41894542 is a review article
Clazosentan, a selective endothelin-A (ET-A) receptor antagonist, is used to prevent cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Although pulmonary edema and fluid retention are recognized adverse effects, hypoxemia associated with atelectasis has not been described. Endothelin-1 contributes to hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction (HPV), which preserves ventilation-perfusion (V/Q) matching by diverting blood flow from poorly ventilated regions; pharmacologic ET-A blockade may attenuate HPV, increasing intrapulmonary shunt and impairing oxygenation. We report a man in his 60s with aneurysmal SAH (World Federation of Neurosurgical Societies [WFNS] I, Fisher 3) who underwent clipping surgery and postoperative clazosentan infusion (10 mg/h, standard Japanese dosage). On day 7 of infusion, hypoxemia (SpO2 < 90% room air) developed; on day 8, arterial blood gas showed PaO2 62.5 mmHg with a PaO2/FiO2 (P/F) ratio of 109. Chest computed tomography (CT) demonstrated right lower-lobe atelectasis without pulmonary edema or pleural effusion, and echocardiography showed normal cardiac function. Clazosentan was discontinued and corticosteroid therapy initiated, after which oxygenation improved and the atelectasis resolved. The patient was extubated on day 18 and discharged with good neurological recovery. This case illustrates a plausible mechanism whereby ET-A receptor blockade suppresses HPV, exacerbating V/Q mismatch in the presence of segmental atelectasis. Improvement after drug withdrawal supports this association. Clinicians should recognize that hypoxemia during clazosentan therapy may occur independently of fluid overload and warrants early respiratory evaluation.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558375 is a review article
Oxidative stress and neuroinflammation are critical contributors to hypoxic-ischemic brain injury. Microglia, the CNS-resident immune cells, undergo rapid activation in response to hypoxic stress. Endothelin-1 (ET-1), a vasoconstrictor implicated in cerebrovascular pathology, is upregulated by hypoxia; however, its role in microglial activation remains poorly understood. HMC3 human microglial cells were exposed to hypoxia (1% O2) for 4 hours. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) were quantified by flow cytometry. ET-1 and interleukin-6 (IL-6) protein concentrations were measured by ELISA and mRNA levels by qPCR. Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation and ET-1 localization were assessed by flow cytometry and immunofluorescence, respectively. The endothelin B receptor (ETBR) antagonist BQ788 was used to assess ET-1 signaling in hypoxia-induced responses. Hypoxia significantly upregulated ET-1 gene expression (5.0-fold increase, p < 0.001, n = 4) and elevated ET-1 protein production by 1.4-fold (p < 0.01, n = 4). IL-6 expression and secretion increased 1.5-fold under hypoxic conditions (p < 0.01, n = 4), an effect that was attenuated by BQ788 pretreatment. ROS levels increased 1.9-fold in hypoxic HMC3 cells (p < 0.01, n = 4) but were significantly reduced by ETBR inhibition. Additionally, hypoxia elevated the percentage of MAPK-activated cells compared to both normoxic and BQ788-treated groups (p < 0.01). These findings demonstrate that hypoxia induces ET-1 overexpression, ROS generation, MAPK activation, and IL-6 production in microglia, establishing a self-perpetuating cycle of neuroinflammation. ETBR blockade with BQ788 disrupts this cascade, suggesting that ET-1 signaling is a promising therapeutic target to mitigate secondary injury in hypoxic-ischemic brain conditions.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42555010
Annexin A1 (AnxA1) regulates inflammation and neovascularization in ocular diseases, influencing growth factor signaling and cytoskeletal dynamics. Accordingly, this study aimed to investigate the role of the AnxA1 protein in diabetic retinopathy (DR) and to understand how its absence affects inflammation and vascular dysfunction in DR.DR model was induced 12 weeks after streptozotocin injection in wild-type (AnxA1+/+) and AnxA1 knockout (AnxA1-/-) mice. We evaluated the consequences of AnxA1 deficiency on retinal morphology, Müller cell activation, inflammation, and angiogenesis associated with DR. We also performed an in silico analysis in wild-type animals with DR induced for 6 weeks and in a dataset of patients with DR. Furthermore, a choroidal neovascularization model was used to evaluate the role of AnxA1 in angiogenesis signaling.AnxA1 deficiency exacerbated selective systemic inflammatory alterations and promoted retinal neurodegeneration associated with DR. AnxA1-/- diabetic animals exhibited increased circulating IL-6, IL-17, chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 1, and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 levels, retinal monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 and IL-4 upregulation, dysregulated MAPK/STAT3 signaling, and altered gliosis responses. In addition, AnxA1 deficiency was associated with a proangiogenic signaling profile characterized by increased retinal levels of EGF, VEGF-A, and endothelin-1 in DR, whereas the upregulation of VEGF-C was predominantly observed in the choroidal neovascularization model.Endogenous AnxA1 modulates inflammatory-glial and proangiogenic signaling pathways in the diabetic retina. Its deficiency is associated with selective inflammatory dysregulation and enhanced angiogenesis-related signaling during DR progression.
To compare the effects of High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT) and Moderate Intensity Continuous Training (MICT) on blood pressure homeostasis, cardiovascular structure, and function, and to explore the underlying neuro-humoral regulatory mechanisms in patients with essential hypertension (EH).A total of 56 EH patients were randomly (1:1) assigned to the MICT (35 min) or HIIT (1 × 10 min with 2 min intervals) for 8 weeks, three times per week. The primary outcome was the change in flow-mediated dilation (FMD). Blood pressure, traditional cardiovascular risk factors, cardiovascular structure and function, as well as neural, specific humoral, and nonspecific humoral regulation were assessed.Among 56 patients with EH who were randomized, 54 (96.4%) completed the 8-week evaluation. After an 8-week intervention, the improvement in FMD was significantly greater in the HIIT group compared with the MICT group (mean difference: 0.85% [95% CI, 0.50-1.21]). HIIT showed favored changes in nitric oxide, FMD, and endothelin-1, brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity, peak systolic velocity, corrected QT Interval, Ratio of Early Diastolic Mitral Valve Peak Flow Velocity to Early Diastolic Myocardial Velocity, angiotensin-(1-7), and C-reactive protein in EH patients (all P < 0.05). Both HIIT and MICT significantly improved systolic blood pressure, pulsatility index, resistive index, angiotensin II, and norepinephrine in EH patients (all P < 0.05), with no statistically significant differences between the two groups (all P > 0.05).Both HIIT and MICT yielded comparable effects on lowering systolic blood pressure and regulating neurohumoral factors. FMD was improved to a greater extent with HIIT, which also showed superior efficacy in arterial stiffness, hemodynamics, cardiac diastolic function, and inflammatory biomarkers.https://www.chictr.org.cn, identifier ChiCTR2500097077.© 2026 Yan, Liu, Gao, Guo, Wu, Gong, Gao and Wang.
Women with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) are more likely to develop cardiovascular disease (CVD) within 3 to 10 years following pregnancy. Despite a return to normoglycemia shortly after gestation, GDM mothers still possess an increased risk of future CVD. In this study, we use a novel preclinical hormonal model of GDM to examine the mechanisms underlying future vascular and cardiac dysfunction in mothers with a history of GDM. We treated 16-week-old pregnant C57BL/6J mice with the insulin receptor antagonist (S961; 30nmol/kg, s.c.) from gestational day (GD) 7 (second trimester of pregnancy) until delivery to induce GDM. GDM mice developed systolic and diastolic dysfunction, arterial stiffness, hypertension, increased cardiac mass, and exercise intolerance at 10 weeks postpartum compared with saline-treated pregnant or S961-treated virgin mice. We also observed decreased plasma nitric oxide (NO) and increased endothelin-1 (ET-1) in GDM. The aorta of S961-induced GDM mice had increased pulse wave velocity, impaired vascular relaxation, remodeling, elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and adhesion molecules, increased ET-1 type A receptor expression, and reduced sirtuin-1 (SIRT-1) expression. The left ventricle of S961-induced GDM mice exhibited fibrosis, thickness, and increased ROS production. Additionally, alterations in cardiac kinase activity in the nitric oxide/cyclic guanosine monophosphate/protein kinase G (NO/cGMP/PRKG) and AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) alpha pathways were observed at 10 weeks postpartum using novel Pamgene kinome technology. Thus, endothelin activation, suppressed NO/cGMP/PRKG signaling, impaired AMPK, and altered SIRT1 may be responsible for the development of vascular stiffness and cardiac dysfunction in mothers with a history of GDM.
Coronary microvascular disease (CMVD), particularly ischemia with non-obstructive coronary arteries (INOCA)-related CMVD, is associated with recurrent angina, impaired quality of life, and an increased risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes. Although recognition of this condition is increasing, treatment options remain limited, and many patients continue to have symptoms despite conventional medical therapy. Acupuncture has shown potential as an adjunctive therapy for angina-related symptoms and other cardiovascular conditions. However, high-quality evidence for INOCA-related CMVD remains scarce. This trial aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of acupuncture as an adjunct to conventional medical therapy in patients with INOCA-related CMVD.This prospective, single-center, randomized, sham-controlled, parallel-group pilot trial will recruit 60 participants with INOCA-related CMVD at Guang'anmen Hospital, China Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing, China. Eligible participants will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to an acupuncture group or a sham acupuncture group. Both groups will continue guideline-directed conventional medical therapy. The acupuncture group will receive true acupuncture at Dabao (SP21), Neiguan (PC6), Danzhong (CV17), Xinshu (BL15), and Geshu (BL17), while the sham group will receive non-penetrating sham acupuncture at the same acupoints with the same schedule. Treatment will be given three times weekly for 4 consecutive weeks, followed by a 4-week follow-up. The primary outcome is the response rate at week 4, defined as the proportion of participants with an increase of at least 5 points in the Seattle Angina Questionnaire summary score from baseline. Secondary outcomes include changes in SAQ scores, angina attack frequency, EuroQol 5-Dimension 5-Level questionnaire, traditional Chinese medicine syndrome score, nitric oxide, endothelin-1, and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein. Additional assessments include Clinical Global Impression-Improvement, expectancy and credibility assessments, and blinding assessment. Safety evaluation includes monitoring adverse events and serious adverse events throughout the trial.This pilot trial will provide preliminary evidence on the safety and potential efficacy of acupuncture for INOCA-related CMVD and may help clarify its effects on angina-related health status, quality of life, and selected endothelial and inflammation-related markers. The findings are expected to inform future larger multicenter confirmatory trials.International Traditional Medicine Clinical Trial Registry (http://itmctr.ccebtcm.org.cn/), Identifier ITMCTR2026000515.© 2026 Meng, Ma, Sun, Xia, Zhao, Bai, Zhu, Shi and Zhang.
Evidences indicate that tumor-derived exosomes released by cancer cells are key mediators of intercellular communication and disease progression in various cancers. This study aimed to investigate the expression of key molecules endothelin-1 (ET-1) and high-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), as well as the enzymatic activity of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) in serum-derived exosomes from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).Serum samples were obtained from twenty-five patients with CLL and twenty-five controls. Exosomes were purified from serum and further characterized through dynamic light scattering (DLS), atomic force microscopy (AFM), and flow cytometry. Real-time PCR was used to determine the mRNA expression of ET-1 and HMGB1 in isolated exosomes. Protein patterns of isolated exosomes were visualized by SDS-PAGE, and then MMP-9 enzymatic activity was assessed using gelatin zymography.Isolated exosomes from serum exhibited the expected morphology and marker expression based on characterization data obtained from DLS, AFM, and flow cytometry assays. Real-time PCR results indicated a significant overexpression of ET-1 and HMGB1 in CLL-derived exosomes compared to healthy controls (p < 0.05). In gelatin zymography, the activity of the MMP-9 dimer was significantly higher in patient-derived exosomes than that of controls (p < 0.001).These findings showed that serum-derived exosomes from CLL patients have higher expression of ET-1 and HMGB1 and higher MMP-9 enzymatic activity. These alterations suggest that exosomal ET-1, HMGB1, and MMP-9 may serve as potential non-invasive biomarkers for disease monitoring and warrant further investigation regarding their biological and clinical significance in CLL.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42532808
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) is a common chronic inflammatory disease of the mucosa, which significantly impairs patients' quality of life. Eucalyptol-Limonene-Pinene (ELP) is a plant-derived mucoactive agent used in respiratory diseases, including CRSwNP; however, its underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study aimed to evaluate ELP's effect on CRSwNP and explore its mechanisms.Predicted targets and pathways from network pharmacology were validated in vitro using nasal epithelial cells (NECs) and single-cell suspensions from CRSwNP patients, and in vivo using Aspergillus oryzae protease/ovalbumin-induced mouse CRSwNP model. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, Western blot, Luminex, hematoxylin and eosin staining, Alcian blue-periodic acid-Schiff staining, immunofluorescence, and immunohistochemistry were used to quantify inflammatory mediators and mucociliary changes.Network pharmacology revealed that epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha, interleukin (IL)-2 are core targets and enriched in inflammation pathways. In vitro, ELP inhibited the overexpression of mucin 5AC induced by amphiregulin, hypoxia, IL-2 and IL-13 in NECs. ELP decreased expression of type 2 inflammatory mediators, arachidonate 15-lipoxygenase, C-C motif chemokine ligand 26, periostin and epithelial-derived alarmins thymic stromal lymphopoietin, IL-33 in NECs, reduced the concentrations of cytokines/chemokines and countered lipopolysaccharide-induced inflammation in single-cell suspensions. In vivo, ELP reduced epithelial thickness, inflammatory infiltration, goblet cell hyperplasia and cilia damage.ELP reduced mucus hypersecretion and inflammatory mediators in vitro and in vivo in CRSwNP by specifically inhibiting EGFR-, hypoxia-, IL-2- and IL-13-mediated pathways, suppressing inflammatory responses, and alleviating ciliary damage, suggesting its potential therapeutic value.Copyright © 2026 The Korean Academy of Asthma, Allergy and Clinical Immunology • The Korean Academy of Pediatric Allergy and Respiratory Disease.
This study integrated network pharmacology, computational simulation, spatial transcriptomics, and animal experiments to systematically reveal the multi-level mechanism of the traditional Chinese medicine compound Zuopi Pills in treating atherosclerosis(AS) by inhibiting ferroptosis via the acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4(ACSL4)/lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 3(LPCAT3)/arachidonate 15-lipoxygenase(ALOX15) signaling axis. Network pharmacology was used to screen for the intersecting targets between the active components of Zuopi Pills and AS, followed by protein-protein interaction(PPI) construction, Gene Ontology(GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations were conducted on the core components against key ferroptosis-related targets, glutathione peroxidase 4(GPX4), ACSL4, LPCAT3, and ALOX15, to assess binding stability. Spatial transcriptomics was utilized to directly observe, within the tissue spatial dimension, the distribution and expression patterns of key targets in atherosclerotic plaque regions of the aorta, thereby validating their association with pathological sites. An ApoE~(-/-)AS mouse model of AS induced by a high-fat diet was established. Mice were treated with different doses of Zuopi Pills to assess its effects on body weight, aortic pathology(hematoxylin-eosin staining), serum lipid profiles, inflammatory cytokines, and ferroptosis-related indices, as well as protein/mRNA expression in aortic tissue. Network pharmacology analysis identified 175 intersecting targets, with KEGG enrichment highlighting ferroptosis as a key pathway. Molecular docking showed favorable binding between core components and the targets, and molecular dynamics simulations confirmed the stability of these complexes. Spatial transcriptomics analysis visually demonstrated the specific high expression of GPX4, ACSL4, LPCAT3, and ALOX15 within the aortic plaque region, providing in situ evidence to support subsequent mechanistic studies. Animal experiments confirmed that Zuopi Pills significantly reduced body weight, improved serum lipid profiles, alleviated plaque formation, and inhibited inflammation in AS mice. Mechanistically, Zuopi Pills decreased Fe~(2+) and malondialdehyde(MDA) content while increasing superoxide dismutase(SOD) activity and glutathione(GSH) levels in aortic tissue. It downregulated the protein and mRNA expression of prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2(PTGS2), transferrin receptor 1(TFR1), ACSL4, LPCAT3, and ALOX15, while concurrently upregulating GPX4 expression. In conclusion, Zuopi Pills exert a clear therapeutic effect on AS mice, and its mechanism is closely related to the regulation of the ACSL4/LPCAT3/ALOX15 signaling axis and the inhibition of ferroptosis in vascular cells.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42522678 is a review article
9-Methylfascaplysin (9-MF) is a novel marine-derived neuroprotective compound with potential for the development as a therapeutic agent for Alzheimer's disease and ischemic stroke. However, its systematic toxicological profile remains to be fully characterized. In this study, the subacute toxicity of 9-MF was evaluated in male and female Sprague-Dawley rats following 14 consecutive days of intravenous administration. 9-MF at 1-5 mg/kg did not induce significant alterations in body weight, food consumption, motor function, or anxiety-like behavior. Sex-dependent sensitivity to 9-MF-induced hepatotoxicity was observed. Furthermore, 9-MF induced mild hepatic inflammation, red pulp hemorrhage in the spleen, inflammatory cell infiltration, and alveolar septal thickening in the lung, as well as mild neuronal degeneration and structural loosening in the dentate gyrus region of the brain. Integrated transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolomic analyses further revealed that 5 mg/kg 9-MF regulated 6-pyruvoyltetrahydropterin synthase-centered biopterin metabolism, arachidonate 15-lipoxygenase-centered linoleate metabolism, and the mTOR pathway in the brain, as well as SMPD4/phytosphingosine-centered sphingolipid metabolism, PLA2G2A-centered arachidonic acid metabolism, and GMPR-centered porphyrin metabolism in the blood, contributing to the observed abnormalities. These findings not only provided a toxicological basis for the further drug development of 9-MF but also served as an example of a toxicological study integrating traditional assessments with multiomics strategies.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42492394 is a review article
T cell receptor-associated transmembrane adaptor 1 (TRAT1) is a well-characterized regulator of T-cell signaling, yet its functional roles in innate lymphocytes remain largely undefined. This study aimed to identify autoimmune hepatitis (AIH)-associated immune targets and perform an exploratory functional characterization of TRAT1 in NK-cell models.We performed transcriptomic analysis on liver tissues from AIH patients and disease controls to prioritize candidate genes. Public datasets and a Concanavalin A (ConA)-induced acute immune-mediated hepatitis murine model were used for contextualization and experimental support for Trat1 expression and immune cell dynamics. The functional role of TRAT1 in NK cells was assessed using NK92-MI cells and primary human NK cells with siRNA-mediated TRAT1 knockdown (KD). TRAT1 expression kinetics and cytotoxicity were examined in both systems, whereas proliferation, effector molecule production, surface receptor expression, calcium flux, and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling were further analyzed in NK92-MI cells.TRAT1 was prioritized as an AIH-enriched immune-related candidate gene in this discovery cohort. In the ConA-induced acute immune-mediated hepatitis model, Trat1 expression was selectively elevated in sorted hepatic NK-cell-enriched populations. In vitro, TRAT1 mRNA expression transiently increased in both NK92-MI and primary human NK cells upon activation; its knockdown subsequently enhanced their cytotoxicity against target cells. In NK92-MI cells, TRAT1 deficiency led to enhanced proliferation and elevated production of Interferon-gamma (IFN-γ), Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), Granzyme B (GZMB), and perforin. TRAT1 deficiency also selectively upregulated activating receptors NCR1 (NKp46) and NCR2 (NKp44) while downregulating NKG2D. Mechanistically, TRAT1 KD was associated with increased Ca²+influx, phospholipase C gamma 2 (PLCγ2) phosphorylation, and the phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and p38.Through an exploratory transcriptomic discovery approach, this study suggests that TRAT1 acts as an in vitro candidate negative modulator of NK-cell effector functions, potentially involving calcium and MAPK signaling in NK92-MI cells. These data support TRAT1 as a candidate mechanistic lead for future validation in larger clinical cohorts and lineage-specific in vivo models.Copyright © 2026 Gao, Huo, Zhong, Cai, Yu, Li, Jiang, Hong, Yao and Feng.
B-Raf proto-oncogene, serine/threonine kinase (BRAF) mutations are rare (1-2%) in invasive mucinous adenocarcinoma (IMA). The therapeutic effect of dabrafenib combined with trametinib in IMA with BRAF mutations remains unknown. An 82-year-old man with a BRAF V600E mutation was diagnosed with mixed invasive mucinous and nonmucinous adenocarcinoma of the lung (cT4N1M1a, stage IVA) and he was treated with dabrafenib plus trametinib. The treatment effect continued for 14 months, suggesting that combined dabrafenib and trametinib as targeted therapy is a potential treatment option for BRAF V600E mutation-positive mixed invasive mucinous and nonmucinous adenocarcinoma of the lung.
Carotid atherosclerosis (CAS) is a major cause of ischemic stroke. Ferroptosis-related proteins glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), arachidonate 15-lipoxygenase (ALOX15), and ferroportin-1 (FPN1) may be involved in atherosclerotic processes, but their clinical relevance in CAS remains unclear.To examine the associations of serum GPX4, ALOX15, and FPN1 with CAS severity and evaluate their discriminatory performance for severe carotid stenosis.This cross-sectional observational study included 280 CAS patients classified into non-severe (n = 207) and severe (n = 73) stenosis groups. Serum GPX4, ALOX15, and FPN1 were measured by ELISA. Group differences were analyzed, ROC analysis assessed discriminatory performance, and logistic regression identified factors associated with severe CAS.Severe CAS patients were older and had higher proportions of diabetes, multiple plaques, and prior stroke. They also showed higher TC, LDL-C, hs-CRP, and IL-6, lower HDL-C, lower serum GPX4 and FPN1, and higher ALOX15. The AUCs were 0.721 for GPX4, 0.698 for FPN1, and 0.869 for ALOX15. The biomarker model yielded an AUC of 0.914. The combined model including clinical variables and the three biomarkers yielded an AUC of 0.991 and outperformed the clinical model alone. In multivariable analysis, age, HDL-C, Z-ln(hs-CRP), Z-ln(IL-6), GPX4, and ALOX15 remained independently associated with severe CAS.Serum GPX4, ALOX15, and FPN1 were associated with CAS severity and provided additional discriminatory information for severe carotid stenosis in this cohort. Further longitudinal validation is needed.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are the leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide and are strongly associated with atherothrombotic events. Thrombus formation results from the interplay between platelet activation and the coagulation cascade. While anticoagulant systems are essential for maintaining hemostasis, these systems can also increase the risk of bleeding complications. Coumarins led to the development of clinically important oral anticoagulants such as warfarin, which inhibits vitamin K epoxide reductase complex subunit 1 (VKORC1), a key enzyme in vitamin K recycling and normal blood clotting. Ferulenol, a prenylated coumarin derived from Ferula communis, has been reported to inhibit VKORC1, indicating a similar anticoagulant mechanism. Indeed, the close interplay between coagulation and platelet activation suggests that ferulenol may also modulate platelet function. However,the role of ferulenol in platelet activation has not yet been fully clarified.In this study, washed platelets obtained from healthy human donors were used to examine whether ferulenol suppresses platelet activation. To further clarify the underlying mechanisms, this study performed immunoblotting and confocal microscopy. In addition, this study evaluated the in vivo antithrombotic and hemostatic effects of ferulenol using a vascular thrombosis model and a tail bleeding time assay in mice.Collagen (2 μg/mL)-induced platelet aggregation was reduced by ferulenol in a concentration-dependent manner from 10 to 40 μM, with near-complete inhibition at 40 μM. Ferulenol produced only moderate inhibition of arachidonic acid (AA, 60 μM)-induced aggregation at 80 μM and did not significantly affect by thrombin (0.02 U/mL)-induced platelet responses. Moreover, ferulenol markedly reduced collagen-induced platelet activation markers, including P-selectin expression, intracellular Ca2+ mobilization, and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) release. These inhibitory effects were accompanied by reduced phosphorylation of phospholipase Cγ2 (PLCγ2), cytosolic phospholipase A2 (cPLA2), and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) family members, including extracellular signal-regulated kinase, p38 MAPK, and c-Jun N-terminal kinase. Ferulenol also suppressed activation of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt/glycogen synthase kinase-3β (GSK3β) signaling pathway. In mice, ferulenol extended the time to thrombotic platelet plug formation, without significantly increasing bleeding time.This study, provides the first evidence that ferulenol inhibits platelet activation. Mechanistically, ferulenol may inhibit collagen-induced platelet activation, at least in part, by suppressing PLCγ2 activation, thereby reducing phosphorylation of cPLA2, MAPKs, and PI3K/Akt/GSK3β signaling proteins. These inhibitory effects were reflected by reduced P-selectin exposure on the platelet surface, suggesting suppression of α-granule release. In addition, ferulenol reduced dense-granule ATP release and limited the rise in intracellular Ca2+ levels, thereby contributing to the inhibition of platelet aggregation. Therefore, ferulenol may be a promising candidate for preventing thromboembolic events associated with CVDs.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Sepsis is a common systemic inflammatory disease clinically observed in patients with severe trauma or infectious diseases. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) serves as a classic tool for studying infection-related neuroinflammation and behavioral changes. Research indicates that LPS can induce peripheral inflammation and neuroinflammation, leading to synaptic dysfunction and neurobehavioral abnormalities. Furthermore, studies suggest that stress can increase susceptibility to inflammation. Intermittent hypoxia, a core pathological feature of obstructive sleep apnea syndrome, induces low-grade chronic inflammation in the central nervous system.This study investigates whether intermittent hypoxia exacerbates LPS-induced cognitive impairment, depression, and anxiety-like behaviors, and explores its potential mechanisms.Adult mice were treated with LPS alone or in combination with daily 8-h intermittent hypoxia via a hypoxia chamber. Depression and anxiety-like behavior were assessed using the tail suspension, forced swim, elevated plus maze, and open field tests. Spatial learning and memory were measured using the Morris water maze test. Pro-inflammatory cytokines and levels of genes and proteins of synaptic-related proteins were detected using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, western blotting, and real-time fluorescence-based quantitative PCR, respectively.LPS-induced impaired cognitive function, increased depression-like and anxiety-like behaviors, elevated pro-inflammatory cytokines, and decreased mRNA and protein levels of synapse-related proteins, synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa, synaptotagmin-1, synaptophysin, and postsynaptic density protein-95 in adult male mice. Intermittent hypoxia exacerbated these adverse effects.Intermittent hypoxia exacerbates LPS-induced neurobehavioral abnormalities, which are associated with neuroinflammation and alterations in synapse-related proteins.© 2026 The Author(s). Brain and Behavior published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42508284
Synaptic degeneration is a hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and is closely linked to cognitive decline. Although physical activity (PA) can preserve synaptic integrity and cognitive function, its long-term effects during aging and AD progression remain poorly characterized. Here, we conducted a 10-year longitudinal study to investigate the effects of different PA levels on synaptic proteins and cognitive function during aging and in AD progression. The study included 231 cognitively normal older adults (preclinical AD, 116; controls, 115), who were stratified based on their PA intensity. Plasma was collected every 2 years to quantify four synaptic proteins (GAP43, neurogranin, SNAP25, and synaptotagmin 1) in neuron-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs), with concurrent cognitive assessments. The results indicated that all synaptic proteins declined over time, with a greater reduction in AD than in normal aging (P < 0.05). Synaptic protein levels did not differ between PA groups at baseline (P > 0.05), but at the 10-year follow-up, participants with higher PA had significantly greater synaptic protein levels than those with lower PA in both AD and controls (P < 0.05). Consistently, higher PA alleviated synaptic protein loss during aging (P < 0.05). Furthermore, higher PA was associated with slower cognitive decline in patients with preclinical AD (P < 0.05). Our study suggests that higher levels of PA may mitigate age- and AD-related synaptic deterioration, thereby contributing to cognitive resilience in late life.© 2026. The Author(s).
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by progressive neurodegeneration in regionally vulnerable brain areas, yet molecular insights into early pathogenic mechanisms remain limited.We conducted a meta-analysis of transcriptomic datasets from brain regions affected in early-to-moderate AD - including entorhinal cortex, CA1 hippocampus, angular gyrus, and frontal cortex synaptoneurosomes - using data from seven mRNA and one microRNA (miRNA) microarray studies (GSE16759, GSE110226, GSE37264, GSE26972, GSE36980, GSE37263, GSE39420, and GSE157239). Preprocessing included background correction, log2 transformation, quantile normalization, and batch correction via ComBat. Differentially expressed features were defined as false discovery rate <0.05 and | logFC| ≥ 1.23 (genes) or ≥ 2 (miRNAs).We identified 172 differentially expressed genes (122 upregulated and 50 downregulated) and 82 significant miRNAs. Hub genes included Inositol-trisphosphate 3-kinase B (ITPKB), Synaptotagmin 1, Dystrobrevin alpha (DTNA), X Inactive Specific Transcript, and Regulator of G protein signaling 4 (RGS4). Functional enrichment highlighted calcium signaling, synaptic failure, and neuroinflammation. Notably, hsa-miR-30d-5p was predicted to target both ITPKB and DTNA, suggesting a regulatory axis linking miRNA dysregulation to calcium dyshomeostasis. Receiver operating characteristic analysis revealed that only RGS4 showed moderate discriminative capacity (area under the curve [AUC] =0.70), while other hub genes (e.g., ITPKB, AUC = 0.40) exhibited below-chance performance, underscoring the limitations of single-gene classifiers in postmortem tissue.This study provides mechanistic hypotheses - rather than diagnostic biomarkers - by uncovering region-specific, miRNA-mediated regulatory networks in AD-affected brain tissues. Future validation in accessible biofluids is essential before clinical translation.Copyright: © 2026 Journal of Medical Signals & Sensors.
Exploring the mechanism of Ding-Zhi-Xiao-Wan(DZXW) on disorders of sphingolipid metabolism in Alzheimer's disease(AD) through network pharmacology, molecular docking and animal experiments. The chemical constituents of DZXW were obtained via the TCMSP, with target prediction conducted using the SwissTargetPrediction database; the GeneCards database was consulted to identify targets associated with AD and sphingolipid metabolism disorders. The intersecting targets from these three databases underwent GO and KEGG enrichment analyses. Cytoscape was employed to construct networks and screen core components and targets for molecular docking validation. Animal experiments employed AD model mice, utilising the water maze, ELISA, qPCR, LC-MS, and Western blot to evaluate the effects of DZXW on behavioural, oxidative stress, inflammatory, apoptotic, and sphingolipid metabolism-related indicators. Network pharmacology identified 51 common targets, with enrichment analysis indicating their involvement in multiple pathways including signal transduction, apoptosis, and the phosphatidylinositol 3kinase/protein kinase B(PI3K/Akt) pathway. Molecular docking revealed that multiple components within DZXW(such as cerevisterol and isorhamnetin) interacted with targets including caspase 3(CASP3), mitogen-activated protein kinase 14(MAPK14), estrogen receptor 1(ESR1), and silent information regulator factor 2 related enzyme 1(SIRT1), with SIRT1 being particularly crucial. Animal studies indicate that DZXW enhances learning and memory capacity in AD mice, reduces ceramide levels, and inhibits oxidation factors [4-hydroxynonenal(4-HNE), 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine(8-OHdG), nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase 4(NOX4)] and inflammatory factors [tumour necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), interleukin(IL)-1β], downregulates CASP3, MAPK14, sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase 1-3(SMPD1-3), B cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia/lymphoma-2(Bcl-2)-associated X protein(Bax), and increases IL-10, ESR1, mammalian target of rapamycin(mTOR), SIRT1, PI3K phosphorylation, Akt phosphorylation, and Bcl-2. In conclusion, DZXW may improve sphingolipid metabolism disorders in AD by inhibiting neuronal apoptosis and mitigating oxidative and inflammatory responses through the SIRT1/PI3K/Akt pathway.
Inositol-trisphosphate 3-kinase A (ITPKA) has been implicated in tumor progression; however, its potential role in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) remains insufficiently defined. This study investigated the expression pattern, prognostic relevance, and potential functional associations of ITPKA in ccRCC. Bioinformatic analyses were performed using TCGA and GEPIA2 datasets to evaluate ITPKA expression, clinicopathological relevance, survival associations, immune infiltration patterns, and enriched signaling pathways. Immunohistochemical (IHC) staining was conducted in 20 paired ccRCC and adjacent non-tumor tissue samples to provide exploratory protein-level validation. Functional assays were performed in 786-O cells following ITPKA knockdown or overexpression. Rescue assays targeting PPAR pathway, using the PPARγ antagonist GW9662 and PPARG overexpression, were used to examine whether PPAR signaling mediates ITPKA-associated cellular phenotypes. ITPKA expression was upregulated in ccRCC tissues and associated with adverse clinicopathological characteristics and unfavorable survival outcomes in the TCGA-KIRC cohort. Exploratory IHC analysis confirmed stronger ITPKA staining in ccRCC tissues than in matched adjacent normal tissues. Immune infiltration analysis suggested a possible association between ITPKA expression and specific immune cell populations, particularly Treg and Th2 cells. In 786-O cells, ITPKA knockdown attenuated malignant cellular phenotypes, including migration and invasion. Rescue assays showed that PPARγ inhibition with GW9662 partially reversed the effects of ITPKA knockdown, whereas PPARG overexpression attenuated the phenotypic changes induced by ITPKA overexpression. However, the present study does not establish a direct biochemical interaction between ITPKA and PPAR pathway components. In conclusion, ITPKA may serve as a potential biomarker and functional regulator in ccRCC. These findings provide preliminary evidence for an ITPKA-PPAR-related regulatory axis and warrant further validation in larger clinical cohorts and additional experimental models.AJCR Copyright © 2026.
The live-attenuated Vaxsafe MG304 (ts-304 strain) vaccine protects against respiratory tract lesions caused by Mycoplasma gallisepticum when it is administered to day-old chicks by aerosol spray in either an aqueous or a gel base. This study used mRNA sequencing to examine transcriptional changes in the tracheal mucosa after challenge with M. gallisepticum in chickens spray vaccinated with Vaxsafe MG304 at one day of age. Chickens vaccinated by spray in an aqueous base at a dose of 107.0 colour changing units did not have significant transcriptional changes, except for down-regulation of the CRHBP (corticotropin-releasing hormone binding protein) gene, in the tracheal mucosa 2 weeks after challenge, indicating that this approach to vaccination effectively prevented immunopathological changes in the trachea caused by challenge with virulent M. gallisepticum. However, chickens spray-vaccinated with a dose of 105.7 colour changing units in an aqueous base, or with doses of 107.0 colour changing units or 105.7 colour changing units in a gel base, did have significant transcriptional changes in the trachea after challenge. In chickens vaccinated with a dose of 105.7 colour changing units in a gel base, the transcriptional changes, particularly those indicative of ciliostasis, were greater than those observed in the unvaccinated-challenged (positive) control group. The only other group in which the CRHBP gene was down-regulated was the one vaccinated with a dose of 105.7 colour changing units in a gel base. This gene was not differentially transcribed in the high tracheal mucosal thickness (high TMT) or low tracheal mucosal thickness (low TMT) positive controls, or in those vaccinated by spray at a dose of 107.0 colour changing units in a gel base or at a dose of 105.7 colour changing units in an aqueous base. Therefore, the CRHBP gene may be a candidate for further investigation as an indicator of effective vaccination, although its role in respiratory immunity remains unclear.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Diabetic foot ulcers (DFU) are a major complication of diabetes, and its pathogenesis remains incompletely elucidated. Converging evidence indicates that oxidative stress and dysregulated mitochondrial polarization participate in DFU progression, nominating these processes as therapeutically actionable targets. This study integrates bulk and single-cell transcriptomic data with machine learning to reconstruct cross-scale, cell type-resolved molecular atlases and regulatory networks. Macrophages and fibroblasts emerged as communication hubs, dominating pathway enrichment and ligand-receptor programs such as macrophage migration inhibitory factor signaling pathway (MIF), ANNEXIN signaling pathway, and COMPLEMENT signaling pathway. Peptidylprolyl isomerase F (PPIF), which encodes cyclophilin D (CypD) and apolipoprotein E (APOE) were further prioritized as putative drivers within macrophages and fibroblasts, and a five-gene classifier was derived with robust performance (internal/external AUC = 0.833/0.933). Within DFU lesions, under the control of non-coding RNA circuitry, SOX5 may shape the inflammatory microenvironment, APOE may participate in lipid-metabolic remodeling, and PPIF (CypD) likely links reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation to a p53-dependent mitochondrial death pathway (necroptosis/apoptosis). Orthogonal validation showed significantly increased CypD in diabetic foot ulcer skin (DFUS) and diabetic foot ulcer tendon (DFUT) relative to diabetic foot skin (DFS) and DFT (Diabetic foot tendon), with up-regulated p53 and Cytc and down-regulated ApoE in DFUS; in primary foot-skin fibroblasts, a high-glucose plus tert-butyl hydroperoxide (HG+TBHP) model reproduced elevated ROS, loss of mitochondrial Δψm (mitochondrial membrane potential), growth restriction, and apoptosis, supporting a ROS-CypD/mPTP (mitochondrial permeability transition pore)-Δψm depolarization-p53/Cytc apoptosis axis. The delineated PPIF-centered regulatory network includes upstream transcription factors CEBPB/REL/SPI1 and a downstream ceRNA axis comprising miR-128-3p/miR-23a-3p-long non-coding RNA OIP5-AS1. Additionally, the significant role of polarization-specific reprogramming in regulating macrophage function highlights therapeutic strategies focused on metabolic reprogramming and inhibition of the PPIF/mPTP pathway. Collectively, a cell type-resolved molecular map of DFU is provided, healing-relevant cell populations and regulatory circuits are prioritized, and a translational, testable intervention framework is proposed.© 2026 Guo et al.
Post-stroke depression (PSD) is a common and debilitating complication of stroke, characterized by persistent abnormalities in neuronal excitability and synaptic plasticity. The lateral habenula (LHb) has emerged as a key regulatory hub in the pathophysiology of PSD. Tongmai Yishen Formula (TMYSF) has demonstrated clinical efficacy in alleviating PSD symptoms, yet its mechanism in restoring the excitability-plasticity balance remains unclear.We aimed to determine whether TMYSF alleviates PSD by modulating the inositol-trisphosphate 3-kinase A (ITPKA)-mediated beta isoform of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II/extracellular signal-regulated kinase/cyclic adenosine monophosphate response element-binding protein (βCaMKII/ERK/CREB) signaling pathway and restoring neuronal homeostasis within the LHb.A PSD rat model was established using middle cerebral artery occlusion/reperfusion (MCAO/R) combined with chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS). Behavioral assessments, electrophysiological recordings, molecular analyses, and gene interference techniques were employed to evaluate changes in neuronal excitability, synaptic plasticity, and the therapeutic effects of TMYSF.TMYSF treatment significantly alleviated depressive-like behaviors, reduced neuronal hyperexcitability, and restored synaptic ultrastructure. Mechanistically, TMYSF suppressed the ITPKA-dependent βCaMKII/ERK/CREB signaling cascade, thereby normalizing neuronal excitability and synaptic plasticity. Conversely, overexpression of ITPKA or βCaMKII abolished the antidepressant effects of TMYSF by maintaining pathway activation and disrupting neuronal homeostasis.Dual dysregulation of neuronal excitability and synaptic plasticity in the LHb represents a core pathological feature of PSD. TMYSF exerts potent neuroprotective and antidepressant effects by targeting the ITPKA-βCaMKII/ERK/CREB signaling axis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
Cisplatin, a widely used antitumor agent, is limited in clinical application due to its ototoxicity. This study investigates the protective effects of obacunone, an active compound from Phellodendron bark, against cisplatin-induced hearing loss. Obacunone significantly improved the survival of cisplatin-treated House Ear Institute-Organ of Corti 1 (HEI-OC1) cells, preserved the cochlear explant, and enhanced auditory function in mice upon cisplatin treatment. Mechanistically, obacunone inhibited cisplatin-induced apoptosis by activating autophagy. Transcriptome profiling revealed that the expression of corticotropin-releasing hormone-binding protein (CRHBP) was increased in the cisplatin and obacunone co-treated group compared to the cisplatin-only group. Overexpression of CRHBP significantly enhanced autophagy and inhibited apoptosis, mirroring the effects of obacunone. Our findings demonstrate that obacunone promotes autophagy by upregulating CRHBP, thereby reducing cisplatin-induced hair cell apoptosis. This study provides a novel therapeutic strategy using the natural product obacunone for preventing cisplatin-induced hearing loss and highlights the potential of CRHBP as a target for otoprotective interventions.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
This study aimed to identify novel circulating protein biomarkers for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) superior to alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) by integrating tumor stemness index and secreted protein screening, and to explore their roles in prognosis, immune microenvironment, and tumor mechanisms.Stemness-associated differentially expressed genes were identified from TCGA (The Cancer Genome Atlas) and GEO (Gene Expression Omnibus) databases after applying ComBat batch effect correction and quantile normalization to harmonize the datasets. WGCNA (weighted gene co-expression network analysis), secreted protein databases, and plasma sequencing were used to select candidate genes. Functional and immune infiltration analyses were performed, alongside multivariable Cox regression modeling and inverse variance weighted (IVW) Mendelian Randomization (MR) for prognostic and causal validation.A total of 19 genes significantly associated with tumor stemness and detectable in circulation were identified. After filtering based on clinicopathological features and survival analysis, 10 key genes were selected. The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis revealed that, aside from FCN3 (ficolin 3), the diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of CRHBP (corticotropin-releasing hormone binding protein), CLEC3B (C-type lectin domain family 3 member B), TEK (TEK receptor tyrosine kinase), SOGA1 (SOGA family member 1), IL33 (interleukin 33), CXCL12 (C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 12), NENF (neudesin neurotrophic factor), and ITM2B (integral membrane protein 2B) (AUCs [area under the curves] ranging from 0.67 to 0.99) surpassed those of AFP (AUC = 0.64). Cibersort analysis indicated significant associations of CRHBP, CLEC3B, TEK, IL33, NENF, CXCL12, and AFP with various immune cell infiltrates. The gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) suggested that CRHBP, CLEC3B, TEK, NENF, and AFP were primarily enriched in cell cycle-related pathways, whereas IL33, CXCL12, SOGA1, and ITM2B were involved in MAPK, GNRH, and NOTCH signaling. A multivariable Cox regression model identified CLEC3B, TEK, and NENF for constructing a prognostic signature, which demonstrated strong predictive performance in the TCGA cohort, as evidenced by the concordance index (C-index), time-dependent ROC analysis (1-/3-/5-year AUCs: 0.74/0.72/0.70), and decision curve analysis. IVW MR analysis further confirmed a causal relationship between cis-expression quantitative trait loci (cis-eQTLs) of the NENF gene and HCC risk (P = 0.024), with no significant pleiotropy or heterogeneity detected. Elevated NENF protein expression, validated by proteomic and immunohistochemical analyses of public databases and a tissue microarray cohort, was significantly associated with HCC progression and reduced overall survival (hazard ratio [HR], 2.456; 95% CI, 1.271-4.960; P = 0.012).This multi-omics study reveals a panel of eight circulating proteins with diagnostic performance superior to that of AFP and independent prognostic value in HCC, nominating NENF as a causal biomarker for disease progression and survival.© 2026. The Author(s).
The abnormal barrier function of the stratum corneum is a significant characteristic of surface-active agent-induced inflammatory skin diseases, and its cause is closely related to the abnormal lipid components of the stratum corneum. Total saponins of Panax notoginseng (TSPN) have significant potential in improving inflammatory skin barrier function. This study aims to investigate the barrier repair efficacy of TSPN using the EpiKutis® skin model and to explore the potential mechanisms through multi-omics analysis based on transcriptomics, proteomics, and lipid metabolomics. We found that TSPN could ameliorate Sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS)-induced barrier impairment in the EpiKutis® model, alleviating stratum corneum thickening and upregulating the expression of barrier-related proteins, e.g., Filaggrin, Involucrin, and Loricrin. Through an integrated multi-omics network, we identified seven key target proteins and screened six lipid metabolites, which are involved in lipid metabolism and exert barrier-repairing effects through five pathways. The result indicated that TSPN might repair the epidermal barrier by regulating the phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase (PI3K)-protein kinase B (AKT)-mediated proliferation pathway, Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-mediated apoptotic pathways, sphingolipid synthesis, Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II beta (CAMK2B)-mediated actin cytoskeleton regulation, and Inositol-trisphosphate 3-kinase B (ITPKB)-mediated phosphatidylinositol signaling system. Further study is needed to explore the mechanism of the molecular link between lipid abnormalities and skin barrier function.
Background/Objectives: Patients with psychotic disorders have a lifetime risk of suicide attempt (SA) of around 10 to 50%. Genetic variants in the corticotropin-releasing hormone-binding protein (CRHBP) and FK506-binding protein 5 (FKBP5) genes, which are implicated in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and childhood trauma (CT), are considered risk factors for SA. This study aimed to examine the interaction between the CRHBP and FKBP5 genes and CT in the development of SA. Methods: We included 350 patients, 180 patients with schizophrenia and 170 with bipolar disorder. The patients were divided into two groups: 175 with a history of SA and 175 without, and a sample of 350 healthy controls was also included. The Multifactor Dimensionality Reduction program was used to identify G × E interactions between the CRHBP (rs7728378, rs10474485, and rs1875999) and FKBP5 (rs3800373 and rs9296158) and CT in SA. Results: The analysis showed that the interaction of CRHBP and FKBP5 with CT increases the risk of presenting at least one SA (OR 4.17; 95% CI [2.67-6.52]; p < 0.0001). Additionally, we observed interaction with childhood abuse (OR 4.09; 95% CI [2.61-6.39]; p < 0.0001), mainly with emotional (OR 3.67; 95% CI [2.34-5.77]; p < 0.0001) and sexual abuse (OR 3.32; 95% CI [2.11-5.23]; p < 0.0001). Conclusions: Our research indicates that genetic variations in CRHBP and FKBP5 genes and a history of CT increase the probability of presenting at least one SA in patients with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.
Small molecule-drug conjugates (SMDCs) represent an emerging prodrug strategy for precision targeted therapy. In this study, we developed a series of cathepsin B (CTSB)-activated SMDCs targeting Aldo-keto reductase family 1 member C3 (AKR1C3). Among these conjugates, SM-27 was identified as the optimized compound, which exhibited excellent inhibitory activity against AKR1C3 with an inhibitory concentration value of 9 ± 2 nM and could efficiently release the payload gemcitabine under the mediation of CTSB. The antitumor activity of SM-27 was dually dependent on the expression of AKR1C3 and CTSB, allowing it to precisely recognize and eliminate tumor cells with low toxicity to normal cells. In vivo xenograft tumor assays with SM-27 showed significantly superior tumor inhibitory efficacy to gemcitabine with markedly lower off-target toxicity. In conclusion, this study proposes a novel design strategy for SMDCs targeting AKR1C3, which provides a highly promising research approach to address the off-target issue in chemotherapy.
Aldo-keto reductase family 1 member C3 (AKR1C3) is a pivotal metabolic enzyme involved in arachidonic acid (AA) metabolism and cancer metabolic reprogramming, which plays a critical role in the initiation and progression of glioblastoma (GBM). We integrated single-cell and transcriptome data to characterize AA metabolism features in GBM and identify the key gene AKR1C3. Using CCK8 assays, wound-healing assays, transwell assays, and mouse tumor formation experiments, we elucidated the effects of AKR1C3. Dual-luciferase reporter assays and ChIP-PCR experiments were performed to investigate the regulation of transcription factor JUN on AKR1C3 expression. RNA-seq analysis, combined with rescue experiments, demonstrated that AKR1C3 significantly regulates the RhoA/ROCK pathway. Arachidonic acid metabolism is closely associated with clinical outcomes in glioma, with AKR1C3 identified as a key gene within this pathway. AKR1C3 knockdown enhanced tumor cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, whereas AKR1C3 overexpression suppressed these malignant behaviors. In vivo experiments further confirmed the inhibitory effect of AKR1C3 on glioma progression. Dual-luciferase reporter and ChIP-PCR assays demonstrated that JUN acts as an upstream regulator of AKR1C3. ELISA results indicated that AKR1C3 overexpression reduced cellular PGD2 levels. RNA-seq analysis suggested that the RhoA/ROCK pathway was a downstream effector of AKR1C3, and exogenous PGD2 supplementation could reverse AKR1C3-mediated regulation of this pathway. We identified curcumin, a natural product with anti-cancer metabolic regulatory activity, as an upstream modulator that suppresses JUN expression, thereby activating the JUN/AKR1C3 axis and inhibiting malignant phenotypes in GBM cells. JUN/AKR1C3 axis influences glioma progression via modulating PGD2-mediated RhoA/ROCK Signaling.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) is a lethal stage of prostate cancer (PC). This research sought to examine the functions and underlying mechanisms of N6-methyladenosine (m6A) methyltransferases in CRPC. Transcriptomic datasets from the Gene Expression Omnibus and The Cancer Genome Atlas were analyzed to identify dysregulated m6A methyltransferases. Cell Counting Kit-8, 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine incorporation, wound healing, Transwell, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction, western blot, m6A RNA immunoprecipitation quantitative PCR, co-immunoprecipitation, and m6A quantification assays were performed to evaluate the phenotypic and molecular effects of methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3). A xenograft tumor model was constructed by subcutaneous injection of lentivirus-transduced LNCaP cells into BALB/c nude mice. Hematoxylin and eosin staining was utilized to detect histopathological alterations, and immunohistochemistry was applied to measure Ki67 expression. METTL3 and methyltransferase-like 5 were upregulated, whereas methyltransferase-like 4 was downregulated. METTL3 knockdown suppressed the proliferation, migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition in LNCaP and C4-2 cells and suppressed xenograft tumor growth. METTL3 knockdown reduced dihydrotestosterone production and suppressed the protein expression of androgen receptor, kallikrein-related peptidase 3, and FK506 binding protein 5. METTL3 enhanced the m6A methylation and transcript stability of aldo-keto reductase family 1 member C3 (AKR1C3). AKR1C3 overexpression notably reversed the anti-tumor effects induced by METTL3 knockdown. METTL3 acts as an epigenetic driver of CRPC by promoting AKR1C3 expression in an m6A-dependent manner, highlighting the METTL3/AKR1C3 axis as a promising treatment target.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) contributes to various age-related pathologies. Methyl caffeate exhibits strong SASP-inhibitory activity; however, its molecular targets and the precise mechanisms underlying its effects remain unclear. Therefore, in this study, we performed affinity chromatography using methyl caffeate-immobilized beads to identify its intracellular binding proteins. The functional roles of the identified target were validated via knockdown experiments, assessment of SASP factor (interleukin [IL]-6 and IL-8) expression at the mRNA and secretion levels, and analysis of nuclear factor-κB and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling pathways. IQ motif-containing GTPase-activating protein 1 (IQGAP1) was identified as a methyl caffeate-binding partner. IQGAP1 knockdown significantly reduced IL-6 and IL-8 expression levels, mimicking the effects of methyl caffeate treatment. Furthermore, IQGAP1 depletion suppressed nuclear factor-κB activation and p38 phosphorylation. Overall, this study identified IQGAP1 as a critical scaffold protein essential for SASP induction and a target of methyl caffeate. Our findings provide key insights into SASP regulation, facilitating the development of SASP-modulating therapeutics targeting specific IQGAP1 domains.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42352065 is a review article
Despite advances in therapy, lung cancer remains the leading cause of cancer-related mortality. R-spondin (RSPO) 3 and its receptor, leucine-rich repeat-containing G protein-coupled receptor 4 (LGR4), drive tumor progression in a subset of lung adenocarcinomas by potentiating Wnt signaling. In addition to RSPO3, LGR4 is also a receptor for receptor activator of nuclear factor-кB ligand (RANKL). Here, we investigated whether MHP1-AcN, our previously developed RANKL-derived peptide, acts on LGR4 and examined its effects on RSPO3-LGR4 signaling in A549 lung cancer cells.An A549 xenograft model was established by subcutaneous inoculation in BALB/c nude mice, followed by daily intraperitoneal administration of MHP1-AcN. Tumor growth was assessed by volume and weight. In vitro, the effect of MHP1-AcN on A549 cell proliferation, cytotoxicity, migration, and invasion were evaluated. Molecular interactions and signaling pathways were analyzed using immunoprecipitation and immunoblotting.Intraperitoneal administration of MHP1-AcN significantly reduced tumor volume and weight in the subcutaneous A549 xenograft model. Mechanistically, MHP1-AcN directly interacted with LGR4 and disrupted RSPO3-induced LGR4-IQ motif-containing GTPase activating protein 1 complex formation. MHP1-AcN inhibited A549 cell proliferation without inducing cytotoxicity and suppressed RSPO3-enhaced phosphorylation of LRP6 and accumulation of β-catenin. Furthermore, MHP1-AcN dose-dependently inhibited A549 cell migration and invasion by reducing focal adhesion kinase phosphorylation and disrupting F-actin organization.These findings demonstrate MHP1-AcN as a novel LGR4 antagonist that inhibits RSPO3-LGR4-Wnt signaling, tumor growth, and metastatic potential in lung adenocarcinoma, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic agent targeting this pathway.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Normal follicular development forms the foundation for female reproductive performance, a process critically supported by angiogenesis. However, vascular endothelial zinc finger 1 (VEZF1), a key transcription factor regulating angiogenesis, was unexpectedly found to negatively regulate the survival of porcine ovarian granulosa cells (GCs) in our previous study. This study aimed to further explore whether and how VEZF1 regulates porcine GC growth. Using cell cycle analysis, cell proliferation assays, and RNA-seq analysis, we found that VEZF1 expression was significantly downregulated during follicular development (p < 0.01). Overexpression of VEZF1 arrested the cell cycle at the G0/G1 phase, reduced the proportion of S-phase cells, and inhibited cell proliferation (p < 0.05), whereas knockdown of VEZF1 exerted the opposite effects. Overexpression of VEZF1 downregulated Cytochrome P450 family 19 subfamily A member 1 (CYP19A1), but upregulated Cytochrome P450 family 11 subfamily A member 1 (CYP11A1) and Steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (STAR) protein expression, accompanied by increased progesterone levels. Mechanistically, VEZF1 activated the cAMP/PKA signaling pathway through upregulating luteinizing hormone/choriogonadotropin receptor (LHCGR) and adenylate cyclase 8 (ADCY8). In summary, this study demonstrated that VEZF1 acts as a negative regulator of GC proliferation, and its overexpression induces premature luteinization of GCs accompanied by the loss of proliferative activity. These findings establish VEZF1 as a key regulator of follicular development and lay the foundation for further exploring the application of VEZF1 in regulating reproductive performance in sows.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the 5th rank among all types of cancers, the incidence of the HCC increases globally. The current study was scrutinized the chemoprotective effect of nimbolide against dimethylnitrosamine (DEN) induced HCC in rats via alteration of PI3K/Akt/mTOR signaling pathways. Intraperitoneal administration of DEN (200 mg/kg) was used for the induction of HCC in the rats and rats were received the oral administration of nimbolide (10, 20, and 40 mg/kg). The body weight, liver weight, liver index, electrolyte, membrane bound enzymes, antioxidant, inflammatory cytokines, inflammatory parameters and apoptosis parameters were estimated. The mRNA expressions were estimated in the hepatic tissue. Nimbolide treatment improved the body weight and diminished the liver weight and liver index. Nimbolide treatment altered the electrolyte (sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium), membrane bound enzymes, antioxidant parameters cytokines (tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-1β (IL-1β), interleukin-2 (IL-2), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-7 (IL-7), interleukin-10 (IL-10), interleukin-17 (IL-17), interleukin-18 (IL-18)), inflammatory parameters (cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), prostaglandin (PGE2), inducible nitric oxide synthetase (iNOS), nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)), apoptosis parameters such as B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2), Bcl-2-associated X protein (Bax), Bcl-2:Bax ratio, cysteine-aspartic acid protease-3 (caspase-3) and C-reactive protein (CRP) level. Nimbolide treatment significantly (p < 0.001) altered the mRNA expression of tumor protein p53 (p53), Bax, Mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR), Bcl-2, Cysteine-aspartic acid protease-9 (caspase-9), caspase-3, phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K), IQ motif-containing GTPase-activating protein 1 (IQGAP1), Protein kinase B (PKB) (AKT), IQ motif-containing GTPase-activating protein 2 (IQGAP2), IQ motif-containing GTPase-activating protein 3 (IQGAP3), Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (KRAS) and Harvey rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (HRAS). The result clearly showed the chemoprotective effect of nimbolide against DEN induced HCC in rats via alteration of PI3K/Akt/mTOR signaling pathways.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The expression of the Wingless-related integration site (WNT) signaling pathway molecules has been reported to be aberrant in periodontitis.This case-control study aimed to determine the salivary concentrations of sclerostin (SOST), Dickkopf-related protein 1 (DKK1) and WNT family member 5a (WNT5a) and their ability to distinguish systemically healthy patients with periodontitis - across different progression rates - from periodontally healthy controls.A total of 90 individuals participated in this study (30 healthy controls, 30 Grade B periodontitis patients, and 30 Grade C periodontitis patients). Salivary samples were collected using the unstimulated saliva collection method. Subsequently, clinical periodontal parameters were recorded. The enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was utilized to determine the salivary levels of SOST, DKK1 and WNT5a.The salivary levels of SOST and DKK1 were significantly higher in Grade B periodontitis patients (14.85 ±3.28 ng/mL and 3.65 ±1.11 ng/mL, respectively) and Grade C periodontitis patients (7.45 ±3.84 ng/mL and 1.68 ±0.46 ng/mL, respectively) than in healthy controls (4.37 ±0.97 ng/mL and 0.88 ±0.15 ng/mL, respectively). Notably, their levels were significantly higher in periodontitis Grade B than in Grade C (p < 0.0001). The WNT5a salivary levels were also considerably higher in Grade B periodontitis patients (6.58 ±3.28 ng/mL) and Grade C periodontitis patients (13.41 ±1.73 ng/mL) than in healthy controls (2.03 ±0.31 ng/ml). Unlike SOST and DKK1, WNT5a showed significantly higher levels in periodontitis Grade C as compared to Grade B (p < 0.0001). Additionally, the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis demonstrated that SOST, DKK1 and WNT5a showed significant diagnostic accuracy in distinguishing periodontitis from periodontal health with the area under the curve (AUC) values of 0.96, 0.97 and 0.99, respectively, and also in distinguishing periodontitis Grade B from periodontitis Grade C with AUC of 0.94, 0.97 and 0.92, respectively.The salivary levels of SOST, DKK1 and WNT5a demonstrated high diagnostic value in distinguishing generalized periodontitis from periodontal health. The WNT5a levels increased with disease progression, effectively differentiating Grades B and C. Similarly, SOST and DKK1 also distinguished these grades, with higher levels in Grade B than in Grade C.
Robinow syndrome has characteristic craniofacial and dental features and can be caused by gain- or loss-of-function variants in Wnt family member 5A (WNT5A) non-canonical signaling. The craniofacial and dental manifestation of Robinow syndrome is heterogenous, as is the effect of altered Wnt5a in animal models. The relationship between Wnt5a and craniofacial and dental phenotypes is not fully understood. To investigate the role of Wnt5a in bone during craniofacial and dental development, we utilized a Wnt5a conditional loss-of-function (LOF: Wnt5afl/fl;Ctskcre ) and a Wnt5a conditional gain-of-function (GOF: Rosa26-LSL-Wnt5a;Ctskcre ) model to determine the effect of both LOF and GOF of Wnt5a in bone cells during craniofacial and dental development. Postnatal day 10 conditional LOF Wnt5a, GOF Wnt5a, and control skulls were scanned by micro-CT and assessed using traditional and geometric morphometrics. Mandibular bone apoptosis was further assessed by TUNEL staining. Conditional Wnt5a LOF resulted in midface hypoplasia, increased maxillary intermolar width, increased rostral basisphenoid width, and delayed molar eruption. Wnt5a LOF mandibles did not have altered BMD or bone microarchitecture unlike our previous study examining Wnt5a LOF femurs. In contrast, conditional Wnt5a GOF results in macrocephaly, shortened hard palate, increased zygomatic length, micrognathia, and mandibular process dysmorphology. The micrognathia and mandibular process dysmorphology in the Wnt5a GOF mice were not due to increased apoptosis. A partially penetrant snout deviation was present in both the Wnt5a LOF and GOF mice. Craniofacial and dental phenotype differed between mice with conditional GOF and LOF of Wnt5a, consistent with the craniofacial phenotype heterogeneity in WNT5A-associated Robinow syndrome. We detected tooth eruption delay, mandibular condyle dysmorphology, and facial asymmetry in mice with altered Wnt5a that have not been previously reported in patients with WNT5A-associated Robinow syndrome. Our data suggest precise regulation of Wnt5a is essential for proper craniofacial and dental development.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.
Tetralogy of Fallot (TOF) is the most common cyanotic form of congenital heart disease (CHD). The myocyte enhancer factor 2C (MEF2C) transcription factor is a crucial regulator of cardiac development, and variants in the coding region of this gene are a known cause of CHD. However, a significant gap exists in understanding the role of non-coding regulatory variants, specifically those within the MEF2C promoter. This study seeks to fill this gap by investigating whether such promoter variants contribute to TOF pathogenesis and providing functional evidence for their impact.Targeted sequencing of the MEF2C promoter was performed in 305 TOF patients and 306 controls. Identified rare variants were functionally characterised using dual-luciferase reporter assays in AC16 cardiomyocytes. Bioinformatic predictions and electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA) were applied to assess the impact on transcription factor binding.Five variants (g.24599 G>A, g.24918 T>G, g.25270 T>A (rs904793941), g.25701 C>A and g.25769 T>C (rs886060871)) were identified exclusively in TOF patients. Four of the five variants significantly reduced transcriptional activity at a conservative threshold of p<0.01, with reductions ranging from 56.5% to 87.8% of wild-type. Bioinformatic analysis and EMSA confirmed that these variants alter key transcription factor binding sites (eg, for ETS1, GATA3, NFATC2) and disrupt DNA-protein interactions.This study provides the first functional evidence that MEF2C promoter variants are associated with TOF and affect transcriptional regulation, offering new insights into the potential genetic mechanisms of TOF.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
The diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of tuberculosis (TB) are crucial for controlling its spread. This study aimed to identify potential pathogenic mechanisms and biomarkers for differentiating active pulmonary TB (PTB) and latent TB (LTB).Microarray expression profiles (GSE19439, GSE19442, GSE19444) were retrieved from the GEO database, integrated, and normalized. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were obtained by comparing the PTB, LTB, and control groups. Functional enrichment analysis was performed, and potential biomarkers were identified using LASSO regression model, nomogram, and ROC curve analysis. Key candidate genes were further verified in a THP-1-derived macrophage infection system using qRT-PCR, Western blotting and biological assays.A total of 4044 PTB-associated and 312 LTB-associated DEGs were identified. PTB-associated genes were significantly enriched in viral transcription and NF-κB signaling pathways, whereas LTB-related genes were associated with cellular protective responses and NK cell-mediated cytolysis. Through the 18-gene PTB panel and the 39-gene LTB panel, 13 potential biomarkers were identified, along with 12 genes validated for the second time. Experimental validation confirmed that Chimerin 2 (CHN2) is highly expressed in the PTB model and induces inflammatory responses; However, myocyte enhancer factor 2C (MEF2C) is upregulated in the LTB model and contributes to immune regulation. CHN2 may serve as a primary biomarker for PTB, while LOC653809 and MEF2C may be potential biomarkers for LTB.Integrated bioinformatics and experimental analyses revealed distinct molecular profiles between PTB and LTB. The diagnostic models performed well, and candidate genes, particularly CHN2 and MEF2C, show promise as potential biomarkers for differential TB diagnosis.AJTR Copyright © 2026.
Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is the most prevalent cardiomyopathy and a leading cause of heart failure worldwide. Midkine (MDK), a conserved heparin-binding growth factor with antiapoptotic, proangiogenic, anti-infective, and proinflammatory functions, has been implicated in inflammatory and fibrotic diseases. Its specific roles and mechanisms in DCM pathogenesis remain unclear.A doxorubicin (DOX)-induced mouse model and DOX-treated HL-1 cardiomyocytes were used to investigate the effects of MDK on DCM progression. Myocardial injury and fibrosis were evaluated using hematoxylin and eosin (HE), Picrosirius Red (PSR), and Masson's trichrome staining. MDK and Neurexin-1 (NRXN1) localization in cardiac tissues was assessed through immunofluorescence. Cell viability, apoptosis, and surface area were measured by Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), flow cytometry, TUNEL, and Actin-Red staining. mRNA and protein levels were quantified by RT-qPCR and western blotting.MDK expression was significantly elevated in both DOX-induced DCM and HL-1 cells. Exogenous MDK administration aggravated myocardial injury, interstitial fibrosis, and cardiomyocyte apoptosis in vivo, and reduced cell viability while increasing apoptosis and cell surface in vitro. Mechanistically, MDK markedly enhanced DOX-induced upregulation of NRXN1, IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α, NLRP3, ANP, BNP, NEU1, cleaved caspase-1/caspase-1, cleaved IL-1β, cleaved caspase-3/caspase-3; while attenuating DOX-induced downregulation of NRG1, NEXN, and SYNE1 in vivo and in vitro.MDK promotes DCM-associated heart failure through NRXN1 upregulation and enhanced inflammatory responses, highlighting itself as a potential therapeutic target for DCM.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Mutations in the human neurexin 1 (NRXN1) gene are associated with neurodevelopmental disorders including autism and schizophrenia. Vertebrate NRXN1 produces three major NRXN1 isoforms, referred to as α, β and γ. Human genetic data suggest that deletions located at the 5' region of the gene disrupting the α isoform associate mostly with clinical behavioral deficits. Yet, 3' deletions that disrupt multiple isoforms have also been identified in clinical cases. Whether deletions that selectively affect specific NRXN1 isoforms result in specific behavioral deficits remains unclear. Here, combining larval sensorimotor assays with a custom hands-free social preference assay developed for juvenile zebrafish, we show that zebrafish harboring Nrxn1 deletions that differentially encompass α, β and/or γ isoforms display both unique and overlapping locomotion, sensorimotor behavior, and social behavior deficits. Combined, our results strongly support a model by which domain-selective nrxn1 deletions predict behavioral phenotypes. Moreover, our results demonstrate compelling relationships between genotype and resulting behavioral phenotypes, providing functional insights into the complexity of NRXN1-associated neuropsychiatric behaviors.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42211283 is a review article
Cytokine storm, characterized by excessive release of pro-inflammatory cytokines, contributes to the severity and exacerbation of various diseases. Current therapies targeting individual cytokines prove inadequate due to the complex and multifactorial nature of inflammatory cascades. Here, we report human ATG10S, a novel isoform of the autophagy-related protein ATG10, as a potential inhibitor of cytokine storms. Using SARS-CoV-2 Spike (S) protein- or LPS-induced pro-inflammatory zebrafish and co-cultured human cell models, we found that ATG10S significantly reduced the expression of key pro-inflammatory cytokines (IFNA, IFNG, IL1B, IL6, TNF/TNFA, IL8, and CCL2), all transcriptionally regulated by MEF2A (myocyte enhancer factor 2A). Mechanistically, ATG10S bound directly to MEF2A at residues D61/D63, facilitating its selective autolysosomal degradation through MAP1LC3B/LC3B interaction, while it also competed with MAPK7/ERK5 for MEF2A binding to disrupt the TLR4-MAPK7-MEF2A signaling axis. This dual mechanism reduced both MEF2A protein levels and transcriptional activity, thereby attenuating cytokine overproduction. Importantly, ATG10S restored autophagic flux impaired by inflammatory stimuli and exhibited high specificity, sparing unrelated transcription factors. These findings established MEF2A as a critical regulator of the cytokine storm and revealed ATG10S as a distinctive macroautophagy/autophagy-linked immunomodulator that integrated selective autophagic degradation and transcriptional interference. Our study provides mechanistic insight into autophagy-mediated inflammatory regulation and highlights ATG10S as a promising therapeutic candidate for cytokine storm-associated diseases.Abbreviations: ATG: autophagy related; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; dpf: days post-fertilization; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; hpi: hours post-injection; LC3B: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; LIR: LC3-interacting region; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAPK7/ERK5: mitogen-activated protein kinase 7; MDMs: macrophages; MEF2A: myocyte enhancer factor 2A; MO: morpholino; S: spike protein; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; TLR4: toll like receptor 4.
Previous studies demonstrate that the protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 2 (AMPKα2), one of two isoforms of catalytic subunit of AMPK encoded by PRKAA2, is highly expressed and contributes to cell survival and chemo-resistance in TNBC. However, the mechanisms underlying AMPKα2 upregulation is poorly understood. Here, we found that AMPKα2 expression was decreased in primary TNBC but paradoxically increased in doxorubicin (DOX) resistant TNBC cancer stem cells (TBCSCs). DOX treatment led to an enrichment of TBCSCs and a concomitant increase in AMPKα2 expression. Mechanistically, enhanced AMPKα2 expression in TBCSCs was driven by H3K27 acetylation at PRKAA2 promoter. This epigenetic modification was facilitated by the histone acetyltransferases CBP/p300. Moreover, CITED2 was essential for CBP/p300-mediated H3K27 acetylation. Loss of CITED2 disrupted CBP/p300 localization and reduced H3K27 acetylation at PRKAA2 promoter. CITED2 directly bound to p300 via its C-terminal LPEL domain, promoting the formation and localization of the CBP/p300/CITED2 complex at PRKAA2 promoter. Disruption of CITED2/p300/CBP complex using an exogenous LPEL peptide inhibited H3K27 acetylation at the PRKAA2 promoter, decreasing AMPKα2 expression. Up-regulation of AMPKα2 promoted stemness properties and conferred DOX resistance in both cell line-derived and patient-derived TBCSCs. Further, we found LPEL peptide significantly suppressing TBCSCs stemness properties. Importantly, this approach sensitized DOX-resistant TBCSCs to DOX treatment. Our findings revealed a critical role of CITED2-dependent p300/CBP mediated H3K27 acetylation in promoting AMPKα2 expression within TBCSCs and contributing to DOX resistance. Targeting the CITED2/p300/CBP complex with an exogenous LPEL peptide represents a promising strategy to overcome DOX resistance in TNBC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The 15q26 deletion and duplication syndromes are rare chromosome diseases with growth deviation and structural anomalies such as facial abnormality, cardiac malformation and hand/foot/skeleton malformations. Insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R), located on chromosome 15q26, is key for pre- and postnatal growth. The present study aimed to determine whether IGF1R serves as a key factor in growth regulation in 15q26 deletion and duplication syndromes. Patients with 15q26 deletions and duplications enrolled in the China Neonatal Genomes Project (CNGP) were recruited. A systematic review of 15q26 deletion and duplication cases was performed, followed by meta-analysis to evaluate the roles of IGF1R and three other genes [myocyte enhancer factor 2A (MEF2A), leucine-rich repeat kinase 1 (LRRK1) and nuclear receptor subfamily 2 group F member 2] involved in growth regulation. A total of 10 eligible patients from the CNGP, including seven with deletions and three with duplications, were identified. The literature search and screening yielded 78 patients with 15q26 deletions and 10 with 15q26 duplications. Clinical features observed in >70% of the patients in the deletion group were facial abnormalities, developmental delay, short stature and hand/foot/skeleton malformations, whereas the duplication group exhibited facial abnormality, hand/foot/skeleton malformation and speech development delay. In 15q26 deletion, three candidate genes were associated with an increased risk of short stature: IGF1R [odds ratio (OR): 8.43; 95% confidence interval (CI): 2.22-32.00], LRRK1 (OR: 100.00; 95% CI: 11.86-843.23) and MEF2A (OR: 32.21; 95% CI: 3.81-272.47). In 15q26 duplication, none of the candidate genes significantly affected tall stature. Using meta-analysis, the present study revealed that IGF1R is not the only key gene responsible for growth abnormalities in 15q26 deletion and duplication syndromes.Copyright: © 2026 Yu et al.
The salutary effects of physical exercise in mitigating metabolic disorders, particularly type 2 diabetes, are well recognized. Several studies have demonstrated that endurance training boosts the production of exercise-induced myokines, which are pivotal for interorgan communication enhancing insulin sensitivity. However, several challenges, including an incomplete understanding of underlying molecular mechanisms, hinder their therapeutic application. Here, we have identified a potential exercise-induced mediator, neuroligin-3 (NLGN3), that enhances insulin sensitivity and abrogates inflammation. Mechanistic studies in white adipocytes revealed that NLGN3 interacts with neurexin-3 (NRXN3) to modulate their function and insulin sensitivity, while in macrophages, NLGN3 engages with NRXN1 to attenuate inflammation and promote an anti-inflammatory phenotype. Administration of NLGN3 in high-fat diet (HFD)-fed mice significantly ameliorated obesity-induced visceral adipose tissue dysfunction and insulin insensitivity; however, these attributes are markedly abolished in NRXN1/3-deficient mice. In addition, elevated serum NLGN3 levels following swimming exercise training correlated with improved metabolic outcomes in HFD-fed obese diabetic mice. These findings suggest that NLGN3 may serve as a key mediator of exercise-induced metabolic benefits and highlight the NLGN3-NRXN1/3 pathway as a promising target for managing obesity-induced insulin resistance.This study aimed to identify novel exercise-induced myokines and their role in improving insulin sensitivity and reducing inflammation. We identified neuroligin-3 (NLGN3) as an exercise-induced mediator that enhances insulin sensitivity and alleviates inflammation. Exercise-induced NLGN3 upregulation or recombinant NLGN3 administration improved metabolic function in high-fat diet-fed mice via neurexin-1 and -3 (NRXN1/3), but these benefits were lost upon NRXN1/3 ablation. NLGN3 emerges as a key mediator of exercise-driven metabolic benefits and a promising therapeutic target for obesity-associated insulin resistance.© 2026 by the American Diabetes Association.
Macroautophagy/autophagy is a critical process for maintaining cellular homeostasis and has emerging implications in cancer biology. DRAM2 (DNA damage regulated autophagy modulator 2), a transmembrane protein enriched at lysosomal membranes, has been implicated in autophagy regulation; however, the upstream mechanisms governing its trafficking and function remain unclear. In this study, we identified RPS6KA3/RSK2, a stress-responsive kinase downstream of the MAPK pathway, as a novel upstream kinase of DRAM2. RPS6KA3/RSK2 interacted with and phosphorylated DRAM2 at Ser263 within its cytosolic tail. This phosphorylation was required for AP3D1/AP-3-dependent trafficking of DRAM2 to the late endosomal-lysosomal pathway, thereby facilitating autolysosome formation and sustaining autophagic flux. In contrast, the non-phosphorylatable DRAM2S263A mutant failed to bind AP3D1/AP-3, exhibited defective lysosomal trafficking, and was partially redistributed toward plasma membrane-proximal compartments, where it enhanced exosome secretion. Bioinformatic analyses revealed a strong positive correlation between RPS6KA3/RSK2 and DRAM2 expression in melanoma tissues, and elevated DRAM2 expression was associated with poor patient prognosis. Depletion of RPS6KA3/RSK2 or DRAM2 impaired autophagic flux and inhibited melanoma cell proliferation. Similarly, expression of the DRAM2S263A mutant suppressed melanoma progression in vitro and in vivo by disrupting autophagy. Moreover, DRAM2 protein levels were elevated in skin cancer tissues compared to normal tissues. Collectively, our findings uncover a phosphorylation-dependent trafficking switch that bifurcates DRAM2 function between autophagy and exosome secretion, and establish the RPS6KA3/RSK2-DRAM2 axis as a critical regulator of melanoma progression. This signaling pathway may represent a promising therapeutic target for autophagy-associated malignancies.Abbreviations: AGC: protein kinase A, G, and C families; AP-3: adaptor protein 3; CD: cytosolic domain; CSNK2/CK2: casein kinase 2; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; CREB: cAMP responsive element binding protein; CTKD: C-terminal kinase domain; DRAM2: DNA damage regulated autophagy modulator 2; EBSS: Earle's balanced salt solution; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complexes required for transport; GEPIA: gene expression profiling interactive analysis; GPS: global positioning system; GRK7: G protein-coupled receptor kinase 7; GSK3B: glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta; IP-MS: immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry; LAMP1: lysosome associated membrane protein 1; LAMP2: lysosome associated membrane protein 2; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MAPK: mitogen-activated protein kinase; MVB: multivesicular body; NTA: nanoparticle tracking analysis; NTKD: N-terminal kinase domain; PI4K2: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase type 2 alpha; PRKAA2: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 2; RPS6KA3/RSK2: ribosomal protein S6 kinase A3; SKCM: skin cutaneous melanoma; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1.
Targeting adenylate cyclase 1 (AC1) offers a novel, non-opioid strategy for pain treatment. The active moiety of FM888 had been evaluated previously in an older tablet formulation. Phase I study assessed the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and metabolite profile of a new capsule formulation in healthy Chinese volunteers, with single doses escalated to 1200 mg and multiple doses to 600 mg Q12h-three times the previous maximum-to support Phase II dose selection.In this single-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, 86 healthy Chinese adults received single (100-1200 mg; n = 50) or multiple ascending doses (200-600 mg Q12h for 7 days; n = 36). Safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and metabolite profiling were assessed.FM888 was well tolerated across all doses. The maximum tolerated dose was 1200 mg (single) and 600 mg Q12h (multiple). All adverse events were mild, with no serious events, discontinuations, or dose‑limiting toxicities. Pharmacokinetics were dose‑proportional over 100-1200 mg. Mean terminal half‑life was 12.66-36.49 h, steady state was reached by Day 5 with minimal accumulation (Rac, AUC: 1.34-1.68), and renal excretion of unchanged drug was low (<1.52%). Six major metabolites were identified, formed mainly via hydroxylation, oxidation, and N‑dealkylation.FM888 demonstrated a favorable safety profile and predictable pharmacokinetics in healthy subjects. These results support the continued clinical development of FM888 and progression to Phase II trials for chronic pain.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42373379
To confirm the efficacy of Yiqi Huoxue formula (, YQHX) on heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF), and elucidate its potential effect on calcium homeostasis.Cardiac specific calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II delta C isoform (CaMKⅡδC)-overexpression transgenic mice (C-CaMKⅡδC+/- Tg mice) and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II delta B isoform (CaMKⅡδB)-overexpression transgenic mice (C-CaMKⅡδB+/- Tg mice) were established by clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)/CRISPR-associated protein 9 technique, and their genotypes and phenotypes were identified thereafter. C57BL/6 mice and transgenic mice were divided into seven groups in random, each containing eight mice. The groups were Control group, CaMKⅡδB model group, CaMKⅡδB treatment group (B Treated), CaMKⅡδB inhibitor group (B Inhibitor), CaMKⅡδC model group (C Model), CaMKⅡδC treatment group (C Treated), CaMKⅡδC inhibitor group (C Inhibitor). B and C Treated groups were given YQHX once a day for 4 weeks by gavage. The cardiac function and structure were evaluated using echocardiogram. The myocardial cellular status and fibrosis were detected by hematoxylin and eosin staining and Masson staining. Calcium transients and calcium leakage from cardiac ventricular myocytes were detected to reflect calcium homeostasis, and the expressions of CaMKⅡδB, CaMKⅡδC, hypertrophy factors, calcium pathway-related genes, and the level of calcium handling proteins were assessed by western blotting and reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction.We found CaMKⅡδB and CaMKⅡδC transgenic mice showed HFrEF phenotype. YQHX improved the systolic function of the CaMKⅡδB transgenic mice, reduced the cross-sectional area of cardiomyocytes, inhibited the overexpression of CaMKⅡδB and hypertrophy-related genes (B-type natriuretic peptide, myocyte enhancer factor 2, and atrial natriuretic factor), and increased calcium handling protein sarcoendoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ adenosine triphosphatase 2a (SERCA2a) and calcium capacity. YQHX improved the cardiac systolic function of CaMKⅡδC transgenic mice, reduced the ventricular diameter and cardiomyocyte cross-sectional area, alleviated myocardial fibrosis, increased SERCA2a expression and calcium capacity, and reduced calcium leakage.Our results suggest that YQHX improved HFrEF by inhibiting CaMKIIδB overexpression, which may be related to reduced expression of hypertrophy-related factors, and increased SERCA2a expression to increase calcium reserve. In addition, YQHX improved HFrEF by inhibiting CaMKIIδC overexpression, which may be related to reduce calcium leakage, and increase SERCA2a expression to increase calcium reserve.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is a major cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide. Understanding the mechanism of LUAD progression will aid in the development of therapeutic approaches targeting this malignancy. Hypoxia is characteristic of solid tumors and contributes significantly to LUAD progression, although the molecular mechanisms involved have not been fully elucidated. Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are key regulators of cancer progression. Here, we identify SLC9A3-AS1 as a previously unrecognized hypoxia-induced lncRNA that is aberrantly upregulated in LUAD tissues. Functional analyses demonstrated that SLC9A3-AS1 promotes LUAD cell proliferation, migration, and invasion in vitro, as well as tumor growth in vivo. Mechanistically, SLC9A3-AS1 acts as a competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) by binding to miR-506-5p, alleviating the post-transcriptional repression of aspartate β-hydroxylase (ASPH) and activating NOTCH1 signaling. ASPH overexpression or miR-506-5p inhibition counteracts the effects of SLC9A3-AS1 knockdown, restoring LUAD cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) capacity. Furthermore, we report that SLC9A3-AS1 is a hypoxia-responsive gene that is transcriptionally activated by hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) in LUAD cells. Collectively, these results identify SLC9A3-AS1 as a key hypoxia-induced regulator of LUAD progression and reveal a miR-506-5p/ASPH/NOTCH1 signaling pathway that drives oncogenic activity. These findings provide new insights for the diagnosis and treatment of LUAD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a highly lethal liver cancer with complex pathogenesis intertwined with metabolic and mitochondrial dysfunction. MEN1/menin is a protein with context-dependent functions in liver diseases. While MEN1 has been linked to HCC progression and mitochondrial homeostasis, its precise regulatory mechanism in these processes remains incompletely understood. Here, we report that MEN1 localizes to the outer mitochondrial membrane (OMM) in HCC cells, which is mediated by its N-terminal mitochondrial targeting sequence and the TOMM20 translocase complex. In a genetically engineered DEN- and CCl4-induced HCC mouse model, hepatocyte-specific men1 deficiency significantly suppressed tumorigenesis, a phenotype associated with impaired mitochondrial homeostasis. Mechanistically, MEN1 deficiency disrupted mitochondrial function by manifesting as promoted mitochondrial fission, impaired oxidative phosphorylation, reduced ATP levels, and elevated reactive oxygen species during energy stress. Critically, MEN1 loss inhibited mitophagy via downregulating the PINK1-PRKN/Parkin pathway, which impaired clearance of dysfunctional mitochondria and promotes their cytotoxic accumulation. Moreover, MEN1 expression was upregulated in human HCC tissues, correlated with poor clinical outcomes and was positively associated with autophagy signatures. Notably, pharmacological activation of mitophagy reversed the tumor-suppressive effects of MEN1 deficiency in vitro and in vivo. These findings identified a noncanonical role of mitochondrial MEN1 in driving HCC progression via regulating mitophagy homeostasis, and highlight the MEN1-mitophagy axis as a potential therapeutic target for HCC.Abbreviations: Alb-Cre: albumin promoter-driven recombinase Cre; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; CCCP: carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl hydrazone; CCl4: carbon tetrachloride; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; DEN: diethylnitrosamine; DNM1L: dynamin 1 like; DQ-BSA: self-quenched BODIPY-conjugated bovine serum albumin; Gal: galactose; GOT1/AST: glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1; GPT/ALT: glutamic-pyruvic transaminase; HCC: hepatocellular carcinoma; WT: wild type; HMKO: hepatocyte-specific men1 knockout; IF: immunofluorescence; IHC: immunohistochemistry; IMM: inner mitochondrial membrane; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; MEFs: mouse embryonic fibroblasts; MEN1-FL: full-length MEN1; MFF: mitochondrial fission factor; MFN1: mitofusin 1; MTS: mitochondrial targeting sequence; OCR: oxygen consumption rate; OMM: outer mitochondrial membrane; OXPHOS: oxidative phosphorylation; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase1; PRKAA1: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; qPCR: RNA extraction and quantitative polymerase chain reaction; RNA-seq: RNA-sequencing; ROS: reactive oxygen species; shMEN1: small hairpin RNA-mediated MEN1 knockdown; TCGA: The Cancer Genome Atlas; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic systemic autoimmune disease characterized by persistent synovial inflammation and progressive joint destruction. Numerous clinical studies have revealed that exercise is extremely beneficial for the outcome of RA. However, the underlying mechanism remains poorly understood. In the present study, we investigated the therapeutic efficacy of irisin, an exercise hormone, on K/BxN serum and collagen-induced arthritis (CIA), two well established mouse models for RA research. Mechanistically, irisin interacted with ITGAV (integrin subunit alpha V) and ITGB5 (integrin subunit beta 5) to activate mitophagy and remove leaked mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and reactive oxygen species (ROS), which suppressed the activation of NLRP3 (NLR family pyrin domain containing 3) inflammasome and then hindered the pathological process of experimental arthritis. Notably, the beneficial effects of irisin on the treatment of experimental arthritis were significantly abolished in mice with atg5 (autophagy related 5) conditional knockout in myeloid cells (atg5fl/flLyz2). Our study elucidated the underlying mechanism through which exercise alleviated experimental arthritis and offered a feasible therapeutic strategy for RA.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine Ac-TUBA: acetylated TUBA; ACP5: acid phosphatase 5, tartrate resistant; AIM2: absent in melanoma 2; ANOVA: analysis of variance; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; BAF: bafilomycin A1; BV:TV: bone volume per total volume; BMD: bone mineral density; BMDMs: bone marrow-derived macrophages; CASP1: caspase 1; CTSB: cathepsin B; CIA: collagen-indcued arthritis; DNM1L: dynamin 1 like; CYCS: cytochrome c, somatic; EtBr: ethidium bromide; FNDC5: fibronectin type III domain containing 5; FL-GSDMD: GSDMD full length; GSDMD: gasdermin D; HE: hematoxylin and eosin; iBMDMs: immortalized bone marrow-derived macrophages; IL1B: interleukin 1 beta; IL6: interleukin 6; IL18: interleukin 18; LDH: lactate dehydrogenase; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MSU: monosodium urate; mtROS: mitochondrial reactive oxygen species; mtDNA: mitochondrial DNA; NLRC4: NLR family CARD domain containing 4; NLRP1: NLR family pyrin domain containing 1; NLRP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; NT-GSDMD: GSDMD N-terminal fragment; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; ox-mtDNA: oxidized mitochondrial DNA; PYCARD: PYD and CARD domain containing; PRKAA: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; RA: rheumatoid arthritis; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SD: standard deviation; SiO2: silicon dioxide; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; Tb.Th: trabecular thickness; Tb.N: trabecular number; Tp.Sp: trabecular separation; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; TUBA: tubulin alpha; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; WT: wild type.
Cancer development is shaped by host-microbe interactions, including viral infections. While several viruses are established oncogenic drivers, their potential protective roles in cancer remain unclear. Here we identify a dominant antibody response to CE1, a consensus epitope of enterovirus and rhinovirus, that is associated with reduced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) incidence and mortality. Anti-CE1 antibodies selectively recognize HCC cells and mediate anti-tumor activity through NK cell-mediated antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC). Mechanistically, anti-CE1 antibodies cross-react with aspartate β-hydroxylase (ASPH), with CE1-ASPH sequence homology underpinning tumor recognition and cytotoxicity. Clinically, ASPH is aberrantly upregulated in HCC and correlates with inferred NK cell-associated ADCC activity and improved survival in CE1-seropositive patients. Collectively, these findings reveal a mechanism by which antiviral humoral immunity confers cancer protection through molecular mimicry and highlight anti-CE1 immunity as a potential therapeutic strategy in HCC.
We have previously demonstrated that ovarian tumor (Otu) domain-containing ubiquitin aldehyde-binding protein 2 (Otub2), a deubiquitinating enzyme, exerts anti-apoptotic effects in primary human islets. The present study aims to further elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying the role of Otub2 as a regulator of insulin secretion and β-cell function.Otub2 overexpression or silencing was employed to study its effects on cultured MIN6 cells and dispersed human islets. To evaluate its in vivo effects, Otub2 knockout (KO) mice were employed, as well as a pancreata-specific Otub2 overexpression model. RNA sequencing was performed on pancreatic tissue from Otub2-KO and control mice to study its effects on gene expression patterns. Co-immunoprecipitation followed by mass spectrometry identified Otub2-interacting proteins.Overexpression of Otub2 inhibited NF-κB activity and enhanced glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS) in cultured MIN6 cells and primary human islets. Otub2 KO mice exhibited impaired glucose tolerance and upregulation of NF-κB target genes. Conversely, selective in vivo overexpression of Otub2 in pancreata of C57BL wild-type mice resulted in significantly lower (~30%) blood glucose levels, post glucose injection, compared to control mice. Transcriptomic analysis of KO pancreata revealed downregulation of K+ transporter-related genes and upregulation of oxidative phosphorylation genes, consistent with defective insulin secretion. Mass spectrometry identified the voltage-gated potassium channel subunit Kv9.3 as a major Otub2 binding partner, along with paternally expressed 3 (Peg3) and calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase II delta (Camk2d) proteins known to promote NF-κB signaling and β-cell apoptosis.Otub2 is a critical regulator of β-cell function, acting through modulation of NF-κB signaling and K+ channel-associated complexes. By deubiquitinating components such as Peg3 and Camk2d, Otub2 may protect β-cells from cytokine-induced apoptosis and sustain insulin secretory capacity. These findings position Otub2 as a potential therapeutic target for preserving β-cell function in diabetes.© Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41824031 is a review article
Mitochondrial endonuclease G (EndoG) is involved in several important cellular processes and has been implicated in multiple diseases. Accordingly, molecules modulating EndoG activity may have high therapeutic potentials. Searching for compounds affecting paternal mitochondrial elimination (PME) in Caenorhabditis elegans, we have identified resveratrol (RSV), a well-known natural compound, as a PME inhibitor. Interestingly, RSV exists as a mixture of trans- and cis-isomers, which interconvert upon light exposure and, surprisingly, exhibit opposing effects on PME by targeting nematode EndoG. Biochemically, trans-RSV enhances and cis-RSV inhibits endonuclease activity of EndoG through direct binding to EndoG. In cellular thermal shift assays, trans-RSV stabilizes and cis-RSV destabilizes nematode EndoG in vivo, indicating direct physical interactions between RSV isomers and EndoG. Structurally, two cis-RSVs bind to the His-Me finger DNA-binding motifs of the EndoG dimer, obstructing its access to DNA substrates. In contrast, trans-RSV binds to the EndoG dimeric interface to stabilize the EndoG dimer. Functionally, trans-RSV enhances and cis-RSV inhibits dopaminergic (DA) neuronal loss induced by α-synuclein, consistent with an important role for EndoG in α-synuclein-induced Parkinsonism. In a mouse model of Parkinson's disease, cis-RSV treatment inhibited DA neurodegeneration in the substantia nigra and improved motor symptoms of animals. Our study demonstrates unexpected, opposing effects of RSV isomers on EndoG in regulating its nuclease activity and associated biological processes, which could complicate RSV applications and cause unanticipated toxicity and side effects. However, when used properly, RSV isomers hold promise as targeted therapies for EndoG-associated human diseases, including PME-related disorders and neurodegeneration.
The mitochondrial endonuclease G (Endog) is best known for its roles in apoptosis and mitochondrial DNA maintenance, but accumulating evidence suggests broader metabolic functions. The spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) carries a natural loss-of-function mutation in Endog associated with mitochondrial dysfunction and left ventricular hypertrophy. We hypothesized that impaired mitochondrial oxidative metabolism, causing lipid dysregulation will be reversed by Endog restoration in the SHR.To determine the metabolic consequences of Endog restoration, we used two complementary rat models: (1) male SHR-Endog transgenic rats and (2) male SHR.BN-Endog congenic rats expressing wild-type Endog, each compared with their respective controls. We quantified adiposity, lipid and glucose homeostasis, liver and cardiac lipid accumulation, and white (WAT) and brown adipose tissue (BAT) metabolism.Endog restoration in both transgenic and congenic rats led to reduced adiposity, lower serum triglycerides and non-esterified fatty acids (NEFA), and decreased ectopic lipid deposition in liver and heart. These improvements were accompanied by enhanced NEFA re-esterification in WAT, increased insulin-stimulated lipogenesis, and augmented palmitate oxidation in BAT. Systemic glucose and insulin levels were not significantly affected.Restoration of Endog expression improves lipid homeostasis and adipose tissue metabolic function in SHR. These findings suggest a role for Endog in the regulation of systemic lipid metabolism, with potential implications for mitochondrial-related metabolic processes.Copyright © 2026 Mlejnek, Šimáková, Šilhavý, Liška, Mráček, Houštěk, Marková, Hüttl, Malínská and Pravenec.
Infections by RNA viruses cause diseases. Host factor(s) that restrain viral propagation offer new anti-virus strategies. We use vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) as a model and observe the synthesis of VSV RNAs at mitochondria/endoplasmic reticulum (Mito/ER) spheres, accompanied by the leakage of endonuclease G (ENDOG), a mitochondrial nuclease, to the cytosol. We provide evidence that ENDOG released from mitochondria is a host anti-viral factor by eliminating viral RNAs for replication. However, ENDOG outside mitochondria can translocate to nuclei and cause nuclear DNA damages. We engineer an ENDOG expressed on mitochondrial outer membrane (MOM), namely MOM-ENDOG, to increase the accessibility to viral RNA transcripts synthesized at mitochondrial sites without damaging nuclear DNA (nDNA). Delivery of modified mRNA of wild-type but not catalytic-dead MOM-ENDOG markedly suppresses not only the propagation of VSV, but also Dengue and Zika virus. Thus, this organelle-specific viral RNA degrader may be developed as a broad-spectrum anti-viral agent.© 2026. The Author(s).
Endonuclease G (EndoG) is an evolutionarily conserved enzyme that cleaves the Mixed Lineage Leukemia breakpoint cluster region (MLLbcr) under sublethal chemotherapeutic treatment conditions, causing leukemogenic chromosomal rearrangements. While endogenous inhibitors (EndoGI) control EndoG in lower organisms, no such EndoGI has been identified in mammalian cells. Due to the structural similarity of EndoGI from Drosophila melanogaster to the C-terminus (Ct) of human Ku80, we perform immunoprecipitation, surface plasmon resonance analysis and 3D molecular modeling, revealing binding of human EndoG to Ku80-Ct putatively between amino acid 110-184. Docking modeling predicts EndoGI-like peptides clustering around residues 686-707 of Ku80. Our experimental studies provide evidence that Ku80-Ct and 28-mer peptide Ku3 reduce MLLbcr breakage after doxorubicin treatment independently of DNA-PK activity. Proximity ligation and single molecule tracking studies show that Ku3 antagonizes Ku80-EndoG association and modulates chromatin-binding of EndoG. Such MLLbcr protection blocks EndoG´s pro-tumorigenic functions without limiting cytotoxicity, pursued for co-treatments that reduce secondary leukemia, a severe side effect of chemotherapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Endonuclease G (EndoG) is a conserved endonuclease implicated in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) replication, maintenance of mtDNA integrity under oxidative stress, and the removal of nuclear and paternal mtDNA during apoptosis and early embryogenesis. Despite its biological significance, the substrates targeted by EndoG and its cleavage preferences remain unclear. Here, we characterize human EndoG (hEndoG) across diverse nucleic acid substrates, including single-stranded DNA (ssDNA), double-stranded DNA (dsDNA), nicked and gapped dsDNA, modified dsDNA containing 8-oxoguanine (oxoG-DNA) and hydroxymethylated cytosine (5hmC-DNA), single-stranded RNA (ssRNA), and RNA/DNA hybrids. We show that hEndoG binds most of these substrates with only modest differences in affinity (∼10-fold), yet displays a particularly strong preference for cleaving oxidatively damaged DNA, including nicked and gapped dsDNA, and oxoG-DNA. Notably, hEndoG preferentially cleaves the strand opposite the gapped or nicked site, and it targets the complementary strand to the modified base in oxoG-DNA and 5hmC-DNA. Our structural modeling of hEndoG bound to ssDNA and dsDNA indicates that ssDNA is a favored substrate because its flexibility allows kinked conformations that position the scissile phosphate near the catalytic Mg2+ in the His-Me finger motif. Together, these findings support a critical role for hEndoG in preserving mitochondrial genome integrity under conditions of oxidative stress by selectively targeting and removing oxidatively damaged DNA.
Endonuclease G (ENDOG) is involved in DNA replication, mitochondrial DNA maintenance, and late apoptosis. Its role in genome maintenance and cell death necessitates strict regulation to prevent unwanted DNA damage. Although inhibitors of ENDOG have been identified in nonmammalian species, no such inhibitors have been discovered in mammals. Here, we identify KU80 as a novel negative regulator of ENDOG in human cells. The KU80 C-terminal domain (CTD) shares structural homology with Drosophila EndoG inhibitor (EGI), directly binds ENDOG and inhibits its nuclease activity in vitro. In silico modeling and immunoprecipitation reveal the KU80 core domain mediates ENDOG interaction. Depletion of KU80 increases nuclear ENDOG accumulation and DNA damage under normal conditions, evidenced by elevated phosphorylated histone H2AX (γH2AX) levels. Conversely, ENDOG-deficient cells show reduced DNA damage and increased chemotherapeutic resistance. We uncover a mechanism where KU80 maintains genomic stability by inhibiting ENDOG activity and nuclear translocation. This study establishes KU80 as a key DNA damage response regulator, offering insights into potential therapies for diseases linked to dysregulated ENDOG activity.© 2026 The Author(s). The FEBS Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Acetaminophen (APAP) overdose is a clinically relevant model of drug hepatotoxicity and acute liver failure. After decades of research, many aspects of the mechanism of APAP-induced liver injury are well established. These include the cytochrome P450 2E1-mediated formation of a reactive metabolite, hepatic glutathione depletion, mitochondrial protein adduct formation with oxidant stress and peroxynitrite formation, iron-catalyzed protein nitration in mitochondria, the opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore, and release of mitochondrial intermembrane proteins including endonuclease G, which translocate to the nucleus and cause DNA fragmentation, the final step of cell necrosis signaling. However, the mode of cell death remains controversial, as there are many overlaps with apoptosis, necroptosis, and pyroptosis. More recently, ferroptosis has come into focus as a popular cell death mode, creating a new controversial topic. The current review addresses some of the similarities and differences between ferroptosis and APAP-induced necrosis. For example, there is extensive glutathione depletion, but glutathione peroxidase 4 activity is not impaired; there is oxidant stress, but superoxide is used to form peroxynitrite; and there is evidence for an important role of ferrous iron as a catalyst for protein nitration. Moreover, lipid peroxidation is very limited, and excess Vitamin E does not protect. However, cotreatment of an APAP overdose with exogenous ferrous iron can induce extensive lipid peroxidation and switch the mode of cell death. Thus, APAP hepatotoxicity does not involve ferroptosis under normal, clinically relevant conditions, but a change in co-ingested supplements can trigger a switch to ferroptosis-like cell death.
Mitochondria contain a genome (mtDNA) encoding a handful of proteins essential for cellular respiration. mtDNA can leak into the cytosol and drive fitness defects. The first genes associated with mtDNA escape were discovered in yeast and aptly named "yeast mitochondrial escape" (YME) genes. We identify the mechanism by which an intermembrane space nuclease, endonuclease G (human ENDOG; yeast Nuc1), prevents mtDNA escape to the cytosol in yeast. Nuc1 nuclease activity and mitochondrial localization are essential for preventing mtDNA escape and suggest a direct role of Nuc1 in degrading mtDNA bound for escape. We find that blocking autophagy via atg1 and atg8 mutants prevents mtDNA escape in the absence of Nuc1. We further demonstrate that blocking mitophagy via atg11 and atg32 mutants prevents mtDNA escape, whereas inducing mitophagy increases mtDNA escape in the absence of Nuc1. Finally, we demonstrate that Nuc1 degrades mtDNA bound for escape via the vacuole, as an atg15 mutant that prevents disassembly of autophagic bodies in the vacuole also prevents mtDNA escape. Overall, our results implicate vacuolar entry of mitochondria during mitophagy as an important mtDNA escape pathway in yeast, which is normally mitigated via the degradation of mtDNA by Nuc1.Published by Elsevier Inc.
Coronary artery disease (CAD) represents a complex interplay of genetic, environmental, and lifestyle factors. In this study, we utilized whole-exome sequencing (WES) on 28 patients with obstructive CAD to identify rare variants that may influence clinical outcomes beyond conventional atherosclerotic risk. We examined 74 genes curated from the Genomics England PanelApp, focusing on familial hypercholesterolemia (FH), cardiac arrhythmias (CA), and pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), ultimately detecting 8,251 variants. After applying a stringent filtering process with a population maximum allele frequency (PopMax AF) threshold of <0.1%, we identified 68 candidate variants across 23 genes. The majority were associated with CA (47/68, 69%), followed by PAH (12/68, 18%) and FH (9/68, 13%). Notably, 30 variants (44%) were novel, and 18 were categorized as high-impact frameshift mutations. The highest burden of candidate variants was found in the sodium voltage-gated channel alpha subunit 10 (SCN10A), followed by the ryanodine receptor 2 (RYR2), mitochondrial seryl-tRNA synthetase 2 (SARS2), A-kinase anchoring protein 9 (AKAP9), and hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated channel 4 (HCN4). Clinical evaluation revealed a pathogenic variant in the low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) and likely pathogenic variants in sodium voltage-gated channel alpha subunit 5 (SCN5A) and potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily Q member 1 (KCNQ1); additionally, nine other variants were predicted to be deleterious, including five novel SCN10A variants. Functional annotation using Gene Ontology (GO) and Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) highlighted mechanisms impacting cardiac structure, electrical conduction, and lipid homeostasis.
Identifying autoantigens in multiple sclerosis (MS) has been challenging. If successful, this could facilitate development of autoantigen-specific tolerogenic therapies, by exposing antigen presenting cells (APC) to tolerogenic stimuli with autoantigens specific to the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) haplotype of patients. RAS guanyl releasing protein 2 (RASGRP2), which is expressed by lymphocytes and striatal neurons, is a putative autoantigen in HLA-DRB1*15:01 (DR15)-positive individuals. We aimed to identify antigenic RASGRP2 epitope(s) that could be used to develop tolerogenic therapies. RASGRP2-derived peptides of varying DR15 binding affinities were exposed to peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Immunoeptidomic techniques demonstrated strong and moderate binding affinity RASGRP2 peptides could be presented by HLA-DR on PBMCs from DR15-homozygous or DR15-negative patients. Moderate affinity peptides produced the greatest increase in CD80 expression and pro-inflammatory cytokine (IFN-γ, IL-17, IL-22) secretion by PBMCs, particularly in DR15-positive patients. One RASGRP2 peptide eliciting the highest pro-inflammatory responses was used to generate HLA-DR15 tetramers. CD4+ T-cells specific for this peptide were four-fold higher in frequency in DR15-positive patients versus controls, more pro-inflammatory in phenotype and demonstrated increased peptide-stimulated proliferation. In conclusion, we identified a novel immunogenic RASGRP2 peptide with relative selectivity for HLA-DR15-positive people with MS, which could form the basis for autoantigen-specific tolerogenic therapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Neuroblastoma (NB) with metastasis to bone marrow (BM) usually results in dismal survival. The mechanisms underlying BM metastasis remain largely unclear. In this study, single-cell transcriptome of NB with and without BM metastasis were analyzed, and 146 marker genes of NB cells were identified. Using two-sample Mendelian randomization, N-cadherin (CDH2) and tubulin α 1A (TUBA1A) were identified as key genes possibly affecting BM metastasis. Functional investigations suggest that CDH2 regulates cell cycle and DNA replication, whereas TUBA1A impacts cell adhesion molecules and the cAMP signaling pathway. Dysregulated expression of CDH2 or TUBA1A also alters the immune microenvironment by immune cells and chemokines. Subsequent experiments validated that both CDH2 and TUBA1A were up-regulated in NB cell lines and high-risk patient samples, compared with low-risk cases. Knockdown of CDH2 or TUBA1A led to cell cycle arrest and significantly inhibited NB cell proliferation and migration. Moreover, an oxidation-reduction cycling agent, 2,3-dimethoxy-1,4-naphthoquinone, was identified as a candidate compound with inhibitory activity on NB cells by diminishing CDH2 or TUBA1A expression levels. Together, these results highlight CDH2 and TUBA1A as novel therapeutic targets for NB with BM metastases. The efficacy of 2,3-dimethoxy-1,4-naphthoquinone in suppressing NB cell growth and CDH2/TUBA1A expression suggests its potential for clinical application.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Synbiotics can be used to reduce intestinal inflammation and mitigate dysbiosis in dogs with chronic inflammatory enteropathy (CIE). Prior research has not assessed the colonic mucosal ultrastructure of dogs with active CIE treated with synbiotics, nor has it determined a possible association between morphologic injury and signaling pathways. Twenty client-owned dogs diagnosed with CIE were randomized to receive either a hydrolyzed diet (placebo; PL) or a hydrolyzed diet supplemented with synbiotic-IgY (SYN) for 6 weeks. Endoscopic biopsies of the colon were obtained for histopathologic, ultrastructural, and molecular analyses and were compared before and after treatment. Using transmission electron microscopy (TEM), an analysis of the ultrastructural alterations in microvilli length (MVL), mitochondria (MITO), and rough endoplasmic reticulum (ER) was compared between treatment groups. To explore potential signaling pathways that might modulate MITO and ER stress, a transcriptomic analysis was also performed. The degree of mucosal ultrastructural pathology differed among individual dogs before and after treatment. Morphologic alterations in enterocytes, MVL, MITO, and ER were detected without significant differences between PL and SYN dogs prior to treatment. Notable changes in ultrastructural alterations were identified post-treatment, with SYN-treated dogs exhibiting significant improvement in MVL, MITO, and ER injury scores compared to PL-treated dogs. Transcriptomic profiling showed many pathways and key genes to be associated with MITO and ER injury. Multiple signaling pathways and their associated genes with protective effects, including fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2), fibroblast growth factor 7 (FGF7), fibroblast growth factor 10 (FGF10), synaptic Ras GTPase activating protein 1 (SynGAP1), RAS guanyl releasing protein 2 (RASGRP2), RAS guanyl releasing protein 3 (RASGRP3), thrombospondin 1 (THBS1), colony stimulating factor 1 (CSF1), colony stimulating factor 3 (CSF3), interleukin 21 receptor (IL21R), collagen type VI alpha 6 chain (COL6A6), ectodysplasin A receptor (EDAR), forkhead box P3 (FoxP3), follistatin (FST), gremlin 1 (GREM1), myocyte enhancer factor 2B (MEF2B), neuregulin 1 (NRG1), collagen type I alpha 1 chain (COL1A1), hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 7 (HTR7), and platelet derived growth factor receptor beta (PDGFR-β), were upregulated with SYN treatment. Differential gene expression was associated with improved MITO and ER ultrastructural integrity and a reduction in oxidative stress. Conversely, other genes, such as protein kinase cAMP-activated catalytic subunit beta (PRKACB), phospholipase A2 group XIIB (PLA2G12B), calmodulin 1 (CALM1), calmodulin 2 (CALM2), and interleukin-18 (IL18), which have harmful effects, were downregulated following SYN treatment. In dogs treated with PL, genes including PRKACB and CALM2 were upregulated, while other genes, such as FGF2, FGF10, SynGAP1, RASGRP2, RASGRP3, and IL21R, were downregulated. Dogs with CIE have colonic ultrastructural pathology at diagnosis, which improves following synbiotic treatment. Ultrastructural improvement is associated with an upregulation of protective genes and a downregulation of harmful genes that mediate their effects through multiple signaling pathways.
With the completion of genome sequencing of the black soldier fly (BSF), an increasing number of researchers are focusing on elucidating its robust digestive and absorptive capabilities through genetic and molecular biology methods to enhance its growth performance. However, most genetic and molecular biology studies require gene expression analysis, and the stability of reference genes may change under different experimental conditions. To identify optimal reference genes, we evaluated 11 candidate reference genes (GAPDH, β-actin, GST, Tubulin α-1A, Tubulin α-4A, Tubulin β, RP49, RPL13, EF1-α, 18S RNA, and 28S RNA) across various developmental stages, tissues, sexes, and 3 distinct genotypes of Hermetia illucens using RefFinder software, which integrates the statistical algorithms geNorm, NormFinder, BestKeeper, and ΔCt. The results recommend that β-Actin, 18S RNA, and RPL13 are suitable for analyzing different developmental stages; RPL13, GST, and RP49 are optimal for different tissues; EF1, RPL13, and GST work best for different sexes; and RPL13, GAPDH, and 18S RNA are ideal for different genotypes. Notably, this study is the first to evaluate the stability of reference genes across 3 BSF genotypes originating from different regions. The findings offer valuable references and fresh insights for molecular biology research on H. illucens.© 2025 Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences.
Toxic advanced glycation end-products (TAGEs) are glyceraldehyde (GA)-derived AGEs with strong cytotoxic effects. TAGEs are also involved in lifestyle-related diseases. Notably, modification of TAGEs by GA causes protein dysfunction. As endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) is constitutively expressed in vascular endothelial cells and is a source of nitric oxide (NO), we focused on it as a TAGE modification-targeting protein. Our laboratory has reported that Ras guanyl nucleotide-releasing protein 2 (RasGRP2) activates Rap1 and R-Ras, among other small GTPases, and suppresses apoptosis and TAGE-induced vascular hyperpermeability in vascular endothelial cells. Therefore, in this study, we investigated the effects of RasGRP2 on cell death, TAGE formation, and TAGE modification of eNOS in vascular endothelial cells following GA treatment using RasGRP2-overexpressing (R) cells and mock (M) immortalized human umbilical vein endothelial cells. GA treatment decreases the viability of both cell types in a concentration-dependent manner. In M cells, GA treatment increased the formation of TAGEs and TAGE modification of eNOS in a concentration-dependent manner, but this increase was suppressed in R cells. Additionally, co-treatment with aminoguanidine, an inhibitor of AGEs formation, suppressed cell death and TAGE modification of eNOS induced by GA. These results indicate that GA induces cell death, the formation of TAGEs, and TAGE modification of eNOS in vascular endothelial cells. Additionally, RasGRP2 is a protective factor that suppresses TAGE formation.
Breast cancer is a major global health concern as it is the primary cause of cancer death for women. Environmental radiation exposure and endogenous factors such as hormones increase breast cancer risk, and its development and spread depend on cell motility and migration. The expression of genes associated with cell motility, such as ADAM12, CYR61, FLRT2, SLIT2, VNN1, MYLK, MAP1B, and TUBA1A, was analyzed in an experimental breast cancer model induced by radiation and estrogen. The results showed that TUBA1A, SLIT2, MAP1B, MYLK, and ADAM12 gene expression increased in the irradiated Alpha3 cell line but not in the control or the malignant Tumor2 cell line. Bioinformatic analysis indicated that FLERT2, SLIT2, VNN1, MAP1B, MYLK, and TUBA1A gene expressions were found to be higher in normal tissue than in tumor tissue of breast cancer patients. However, ADAM12 and CYR61 expressions were found to be higher in tumors than in normal tissues, and they had a negative correlation with ESR1 gene expression. Concerning ESR2 gene expression, there was a negative correlation with CYR61, but there was a positive correlation with FLRT2, MYLK, MAP1B, and VNN1. Finally, a decreased survival rate was observed in patients exhibiting high expression levels of TUBA1A and MAP1B. These genes also showed a negative ER status, an important parameter for endocrine therapy. The genes related to motility were affected by ionizing radiation, confirming its role in the initiation process of breast carcinogenesis. In conclusion, the relationship between the patient's expression of hormone receptors and genes associated with cell motility presents a novel prospect for exploring therapeutic strategies.
Platelet type bleeding disorder-18 (BDPLT18) caused by mutations of Ras guanyl releasing protein 2 (RASGRP2) is a relatively rare, new autosomal recessive disorder. Here, we reported a splice mutation in RASGRP2 gene in the patient with recurrent epistaxis and nasal vascular malformation. The patient, an 8-year-old girl, suffered from anemia due to frequently severe recurrent epistaxis, requiring regular blood transfusions every 2-3 months. Hematological investigations showed moderate anemia (Hb: 89 g/L), normal platelet count, morphology, and platelet glycoproteins. Arachidonic acid and adenosine diphosphate induced platelet aggregation was markedly reduced in the patient. A homozygous splice variant (C.74-1 G>C) in RASGRP2 gene, located within the exon 3, was detected by next-generation sequencing. Interestingly, we identified nasal vascular malformation by percutaneous super-selective angiography during the treatment of an intractable epistaxis. Our case further support that genetic testing should be performed for some unexplained bleeding diseases.
Ras guanyl-releasing protein 2 (RASGRP2) is an important regulator mediating endothelial cell function. However, whether RASGRP2 mediates diabetes mellitus (DM)-related atherosclerosis (AS) progression by regulating endothelial cell functions is unknown.Human cardiac microvascular endothelial cells (HCMECs) were treated with high-glucose (HG) and oxidized low-density lipoprotein (oxLDL). The expression of RASGRP2 and neural precursor cell expressed developmentally downregulated 4-like (NEDD4L) was examined by quantitative real-time PCR and western blot (WB). Cell viability, apoptosis, migration, angiogenesis were detected by CCK8 assay, flow cytometry, transwell assay and tube formation assay. ROS production and cell permeability were tested to assess cell function. Rap1 and R-Ras protein levels were examined using WB. The interaction between RASGRP2 and NEDD4L was confirmed by Co-IP assay and ubiquitination assay. Exosomes were isolated from adipose-derived MSC (ADMSC)-transfected RASGRP2 overexpression vector, and then co-cultured with HG + oxLDL-induced HCMECs.RASGRP2 was lowly expressed in HG + oxLDL-induced HCMECs. RASGRP2 overexpression inhibited HG + oxLDL-induced HCMECs permeability, apoptosis and ROS production, while accelerated cell viability, migration and angiogenesis. NEDD4L could interact with RASGRP2 by ubiquitination, thus inhibiting RASGRP2 protein stability to degrade its expression. Functional experiments showed that NEDD4L knockdown suppressed HG + oxLDL-induced HCMECs dysfunction, while these effects were reversed by RASGRP2 downregulation. ADMSC-Exo overexpressed RASGRP2 could promote cell viability, migration and angiogenesis, while suppress permeability, apoptosis and ROS production in HG + oxLDL-induced HCMECs.Our data showed that targeting NEDD4L/RASGRP2 axis or inducing RASGRP2-modified ADMSC-Exo might be the efficient strategy for alleviating DM-related AS.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This study aimed to identify the differentially expressed proteins in the vitreous humor (VH) of eyes with and without pathologic myopia (PM), providing insights into the molecular pathogenesis.A cross-sectional, observational study was conducted. VH samples were collected from patients undergoing vitrectomy for idiopathic epiretinal membrane (ERM), macular hole (MH), or myopic retinoschisis (MRS). Label-free quantitative proteomic analysis identified differential protein expression, with validation using ELISA.The proteomic profiling revealed significantly higher expressions of tubulin alpha 1a (TUBA1A) and eukaryotic translation elongation factor 1 alpha 1 (EEF1A1) in PM groups (MH-PM, MRS-PM) compared to controls (MH, ERM). Conversely, xylosyltransferase 1 (XYLT1), versican core protein (VCAN), and testican-2 (SPOCK2) expressions were lower in PM. ELISA validation confirmed these findings.Our study provides novel insights into the molecular mechanisms of PM. The differentially expressed proteins EEF1A1, TUBA1A, XYLT1, VCAN, and SPOCK2 may play crucial roles in chorioretinal cell apoptosis, scleral extracellular matrix (ECM) synthesis, and scleral remodeling in PM. These proteins represent potential new targets for therapeutic intervention in PM, highlighting the importance of further investigations to elucidate their functions and underlying mechanisms in disease pathogenesis.© 2024. The Author(s).
Biodegradable plastics, hailed for their environmental friendliness, may pose unforeseen risks as they undergo gastrointestinal degradation, forming oligomer nanoplastics. Despite this, the influence of gastrointestinal degradation on the potential human toxicity of biodegradable plastics remains poorly understood. To this end, the impact of the murine in vivo digestive system is investigated on the biotransformation, biodistribution, and toxicity of PLA polymer and PLA oligomer MPs. Through a 28-day repeated oral gavage study in mice, it is revealed that PLA polymer and oligomer microplastics undergo incomplete and complete degradation, respectively, in the gastrointestinal tract. Incompletely degraded PLA polymer microplastics transform into oligomer nanoplastics, heightening bioavailability and toxicity, thereby exacerbating overall toxic effects. Conversely, complete degradation of PLA oligomer microplastics reduces bioavailability and mitigates toxicity, offering a potential avenue for toxicity reduction. Additionally, the study illuminates shared targets and toxicity mechanisms in Parkinson's disease-like neurotoxicity induced by both PLA polymer and PLA oligomer microplastics. This involves the upregulation of MICU3 in midbrains, leading to neuronal mitochondrial calcium overload. Notably, neurotoxicity is mitigated by inhibiting mitochondrial calcium influx with MCU-i4 or facilitating mitochondrial calcium efflux with DBcAMP in mice. These findings enhance the understanding of the toxicological implications of biodegradable microplastics on human health.© 2024 The Authors. Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Ischemic injury has been reported to induce mild to severe permanent deficits. Nevertheless, its recovery is often dynamic, depending on the plasticity of the injured neurons. The current study found that during the early stage of cerebral ischemia (1 h), Npas4 expression was increased in the hippocampus of mice, thereby transcriptionally regulated the expression of Neuroligin-1 and N-cadherin to enhance long-term potentiation. Knocking down of Npas4 reduced the level of Neuroligin-1 and N-cadherin, sequentially prevented the enhanced neural plasticity in the early cerebral ischemia. Furthermore, the downregulation of Neuroligin-1 and N-cadherin also impeded the ischemia-induced enhancement in neural plasticity without affecting the expression of Npas4. Overexpression of Npas4 in the primary neurons increased the number of VAMP2-labeled synaptic vesicles, while interfering the expression of Neuroligin-1 and N-cadherin in the primary neurons with siRNA reduced the increase of VAMP2-labeled synaptic vesicles without affecting the Npas4 expression. Interestingly, the transcriptional level of Npas4, Neuroligin-1, and N-cadherin declined in multiple brain regions of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and 3 × TG AD mice. Moreover, overexpression of Npas4 increased the expression of Neuroligin-1 and N-cadherin, ameliorated the synaptic plasticity impairment of 3 × TG mice, and enhanced the cognitive function. These findings suggest a previously undiscovered biological mechanism of neural plasticity, driven by Npas4 upregulation of Neuroligin-1 and N-cadherin, which partially explain why the compensatory increase in Npas4 in the early stages of ischemic injury and the lack of Npas4 in AD progression, highlighting potential therapeutic strategies for cognitive deficits.© 2026. The Author(s).
Social memory is essential for daily life, and its impairment is associated with psychiatric disorders. The dorsal CA2 (dCA2) region of the hippocampus is known to support social memory formation, yet how it processes social information remains unclear. Here we show that, in male mice, a specific group of dCA2 neurons-cholecystokinin-positive interneurons (CCK-INs)-acts as a hub that receives social cues and activates dCA2 pyramidal neurons (PyNs). Upon social encounters, CCK-INs are activated and suppress parvalbumin-positive interneurons (PV-INs) via GABAB receptors, thereby releasing PyNs from inhibition. The removal of Neuroligin 1, an autism-associated protein, from CCK-INs disrupts their function and leads to social memory deficits. Importantly, dCA2 CCK-INs receive direct glutamatergic inputs from the medial septum, and chemogenetic activation of these CCK-INs rescues memory deficits caused by septal inhibition. These findings delineate a important circuit mechanism for social memory and highlight potential therapeutic targets.© 2026. The Author(s).
Neuroligin 1 (NLGN1), as an important member of the cell adhesion molecule family, primarily participates in synapse formation and neuronal connection regulation. However, the role and clinical significance of NLGN1 in the development and progression of nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) remain unclear. This study aims to comprehensively analyze the expression pattern, functional characteristics, and prognostic value of NLGN1 in nasopharyngeal carcinoma.Based on the GSE266679 dataset, we systematically analyzed NLGN1 expression patterns using bioinformatics methods. Through multidimensional approaches including differential expression analysis, single-cell transcriptomic analysis, co-expression network construction, functional enrichment analysis, and survival analysis, we explored the biological functions of NLGN1 in nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Statistical analyses were performed using R language, employing Wilcoxon rank-sum test, Cox regression models, and other methods to assess statistical significance. Additionally, quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) was conducted in nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell lines (C666-1 and HONE1) and the normal nasopharyngeal epithelial cell line NP69 to experimentally validate the bioinformatics findings.NLGN1 expression levels were significantly higher in nasopharyngeal carcinoma tissues compared to normal tissues (p < 0.001). Single-cell transcriptomic analysis identified six major cell types, including epithelial cancer cells, proliferative cancer cells, immune stromal cells, inflammatory stromal cells, metabolic stromal cells, and myeloid cells. NLGN1 showed significant correlations with multiple key genes and participated in apoptosis and metabolism-related signaling pathways. Multi-cancer survival analysis revealed that NLGN1 expression levels were associated with patient prognosis, functioning as either a protective or risk factor in certain cancer types. Co-expression network analysis revealed that NLGN1 may participate in tumorigenesis and progression through regulating cell adhesion, signal transduction, and metabolic reprogramming. Consistently, qRT-PCR validation confirmed that NLGN1 mRNA levels were markedly elevated in C666-1 and HONE1 cells compared with NP69 cells, providing experimental support for its oncogenic potential.NLGN1 is upregulated in nasopharyngeal carcinoma and may promote tumor progression through multiple molecular mechanisms, demonstrating potential value as a diagnostic biomarker and therapeutic target. This study provides important evidence for understanding the role of NLGN1 in nasopharyngeal carcinoma pathogenesis and establishes a foundation for precision medicine and personalized treatment strategies. The integration of experimental validation with multi-omics analysis strengthens the reliability of these findings and highlights NLGN1 as a promising molecular target in NPC.© 2026. The Author(s).
FRMPD2 is a human-specific multi-copy gene with higher mRNA expression in brain tissue, but its role in synapse formation and neurodevelopment remains unknown. We find that FRMPD2 is a neuron-specific protein with a high expression level in human brains compared to rodent brains. FRMPD2 overexpression in rat neurons stimulates synaptogenesis, leading to increased synaptic activities. Importantly, our results show that FRMPD2 via its PDZ domains recruits and enhances neuroligin-1 protein levels at the postsynaptic sites, and via its FERM domain interacts with the F-actin network in the spine. Increased expression of FRMPD2 also promotes spine formation and maturation, a foundational process for synapse formation. In developing embryonic mouse brains expressing higher FRMPD2 protein levels, we observed delayed neuronal migration, presumably promoting a protracted timeline for cortical lamination as a feature in human brain development. Behaviorally, mice with FRMPD2 overexpression in the brain demonstrate enhanced spatial memory retention. These findings indicate an important function for FRMPD2 in neuronal connectivity, brain development, and cognitive function.
Depression is a multifactorial neuropsychiatric disorder linked to neuroinflammation and epigenetic dysregulation, particularly in histone acetylation. Although magnolol has demonstrated antidepressant-like properties, its precise molecular mechanisms remain unclear. This study aimed to evaluate the antidepressant effects of magnolol and its influence on epigenetic regulation of synaptic plasticity in a chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) mouse model.C57BL/6 mice subjected to CUMS were treated orally with magnolol. Depressive-like behaviors were assessed using standard behavioral tests. Expression levels of histone deacetylase 2 (HDAC2), synaptic proteins such as neuroligin-1 (NLGN1) and neurexin-1β (NRXN1β), and their associated co-localized puncta were examined. Golgi staining and immunofluorescence were performed to assess dendritic spine density and DCX-positive cell population in the hippocampus.Magnolol treatment alleviated depressive-like behaviors, evidenced by increased sucrose preference and reduced immobility in behavioral assays. It also attenuated hyperactivity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, as shown by normalization of serum corticosterone levels and restoration of glucocorticoid receptor (GR) expression in the hippocampal CA1 region. At the molecular level, magnolol reduces HDAC2 expression, which may be associated with altered histone acetylation, thus upregulation of NLGN1 and NRXN1β, enhancing the formation of pre- and postsynaptic co-localized puncta. Additionally, magnolol promoted hippocampal DCX-positive cell population and synaptogenesis, supporting improvements in structural and functional neuroplasticity.Our findings demonstrate the ability of magnolol to modulate histone acetylation and synaptic architecture involved in its antidepressant-like action. These results provide a foundation for further exploration of magnolol-based interventions targeting epigenetic and synaptic mechanisms in depression.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Neurexins (Nrxns) are presynaptic cell adhesion molecules essential for synapse development and function. Of the many neurexin isoforms, only β-Nrxns contain the histidine-rich domain (HRD). While the HRD has been implicated in several pathological contexts, its normal physiological role remains unclear. To address this, we used a CRISPR-Cas9 method to generate a new mouse line expressing in-frame truncated Nrxn1β lacking the HRD. We found that HRD deletion did not affect mouse viability, gross brain development, or general behavior of either sex. However, loss of the HRD significantly altered neuroligin-1-dependent excitatory, but not inhibitory, presynaptic differentiation in primary cultured neurons. Moreover, this deletion affected presynaptic short-term plasticity, but not basal synaptic transmission, at hippocampal Schaffer collateral→CA1 synapses. These findings identify the Nrxn1β HRD as a potential contributor to excitatory presynaptic organization and function, providing new insight into the molecular diversity and specialization of Nrxns.Copyright © 2026 Feller et al.
Proper social behaviors are essential for survival and success, and deficits in these behaviors are associated with many brain disorders. However, the mechanisms underlying the formation and maintenance of social memory remain poorly understood. In this study, we demonstrate that social interaction with unfamiliar mouse induces α- and γ-secretase-dependent proteolysis of Neuroligin 1 (NLG1) in the ventral hippocampus (vHPC). The intracellular hydrolysate fragment, NLG1-CTD, regulates synaptic plasticity, spine strengthening, and the maintenance of social memory through its PDZ binding domain (PBD) and the cofilin signaling pathway. Both γ-secretase inhibition and deletion of the secretase recognition site on NLG1 prevent cofilin phosphorylation and impair the maintenance of social memory by inhibiting the production of NLG1-CTD. Injection of the Tat-PBD peptide into the vHPC inhibits cofilin activity and rescues deficits in social memory maintenance in mouse models. Additionally, our findings indicate that deficits in maintaining memory for sequentially presented social objects within a short temporal interval may be associated with insufficient levels of NLG1-CTD. Supplementation of Tat-PBD into the vHPC promotes maturation of dendritic spines and restores the maintenance of memory for the second social object. We also discovered that NLG1-CTD/PBD may play a role in maintaining novel object recognition memory. In summary, this work uncovers a novel mechanism that links extracellular and intracellular signal transduction processes to synaptic remodeling during learning and memory maintenance, providing a systematic perspective that connects memory formation, maintenance, and synaptic structural and functional plasticity.© 2025. The Author(s).
Target-selective and site-specific incorporation of a desired functionality into a membrane protein endogenously expressed in cells is a great challenge in chemical biology. Here, we describe a versatile strategy for covalent chemical modification of short peptide tag-fused membrane proteins expressed in cells. This method is based on the recognition-driven reaction of a lysine-containing short histidine tag (KH6 or H6K sequence) and a binuclear nickel (II)-nitrilotriacetic acid (BisNi2+-NTA) complex probe containing a lysine-reactive N-acyl-N-alkyl sulfonamide (NASA). Our reactive peptide tag system enabled the selective modification of cell-surface proteins with affinity tags or fluorescent probes through a simple one-step protocol. In this study, we fused the KH6 or H6K tag to cell-surface proteins such as Neuroligin-1, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), and Neurexin-1β, and achieved selective chemical modification of these proteins in live cells. Furthermore, we demonstrated that our short peptide tag allows efficient labeling not only when introduced at the protein termini but also when incorporated internally.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 40890368
Sphingolipids are vital membrane components in in mammalian cells, plants, and various microbes. We aimed to explore and exploit the sphingolipid biosynthesis pathways in an oleaginous and dimorphic yeast Yarrowia lipolytica by constructing and characterizing mutant strains with specific gene deletions and integrating exogenous genes to enhance the production of long-chain bases (LCBs) and glucosylceramides (GlcCers). To block the fungal/plant-specific phytosphingosine (PHS) pathway, we deleted the SUR2 gene encoding a sphinganine C4-hydroxylase, resulting in a remarkably elevated secretory production of dihydrosphingosine (DHS) and sphingosine (So) without acetylation. The Y. lipolytica SUR2 deletion (Ylsur2Δ) strain displayed retarded growth, increased pseudohyphal formation and stress sensitivity, along with the altered profiles of inositolphosphate-containing ceramides, GlcCers, and sterols. The subsequent disruption of the SLD1 gene, encoding a fungal/plant-specific Δ8 sphingolipid desaturase, restored filamentous growth in the Ylsur2Δ strain to a yeast-type form and further increased the production of human-type GlcCers. Additional introduction of mouse alkaline ceramidase 1 (maCER1) into the Ylsur2Δsld1Δ double mutants considerably increased DHS and So production while decreasing GlcCers. The production yields of LCBs from the Ylsur2Δsld1Δ/maCER1 strain increased in proportion to the C/N ratio in the N-source optimized medium, leading to production of 1.4 g/L non-acetylated DHS at the 5 L fed-batch fermentation with glucose feeding. This study highlights the feasibility of using the engineered Y. lipolytica strains as a cell factory for valuable sphingolipid derivatives for pharmaceuticals, cosmeceuticals, and nutraceuticals.Copyright © 2024 International Metabolic Engineering Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is notorious for poor prognoses, and effective biomarkers are urgently needed for early diagnosis of HNSCC patients. We investigate the role of alkaline ceramidase 1 (ACER1) and its relationship with immune infiltration in HNSCC. The differential expression and clinical prognostic significance of ACER1 in HNSCC patients are explored using bioinformatics methods and verified in human HNSCC samples. Genetic mutation, DNA methylation and drug sensitivity linked with ACER1 are examined. The potential biological function of ACER1 co-expression genes is assessed, and a series of functional assays are performed on ACER1in vitro. The results comprehensively reveal a relationship between ACER1 and immune infiltration in HNSCC patients. ACER1 expression is significantly downregulated in HNSCC tissues and closely correlated with better prognoses for HNSCC patients, and this prognostic significance is determined by distinct clinical characteristics. Genetic alteration and promoter hypomethylation of ACER1 are involved in progression of HNSCC, and ACER1 expression is significantly related to several drug sensitivities. Functional analysis shows that ACER1 co-expression genes are mainly enriched in the sphingolipid signaling pathway associated with inhibition of tumorigenesis, leading to better prognoses for HNSCC patients. In vitro, ACER1 overexpression inhibits proliferation and migration, induces apoptosis, and promotes adhesion of Fadu and SCC9 cells. In addition, high ACER1 expression is closely linked with infiltration levels of immune cells, and strongly associated with biomarkers of immune cells in HNSCC, suggesting the important role of ACER1 in regulating tumor immunity in HNSCC patients. In summary, ACER1 may be a useful indicator for diagnosis and prognosis, and may regulate immune infiltration in HNSCC patients, thus promising targeted immunotherapy for HNSCC.© 2024. The Author(s).
Audiogenic Epilepsy (AEs) is a subtype of epileptic seizure that is generally caused by high-intensity sounds. A large number of traditional medicines has been explored in this lieu where our study chased Galium verum L. (Rubiaceae), an herbal plant which is commonly known as Lady's Bedstraw, that contains a highly rich chemical composition including flavonoids (Hispidulin, Quercetin, and Kaempferol), and phenolic acids (chlorogenic acid, caftaric acid, and gallic acid). G verum is well known for its antioxidant, neuroprotective, and anti-inflammatory properties. Recently, the unique role of Adhesion G Protein- Coupled Receptor V1 (ADGRV1) protein in the progression of audiogenic epilepsy has been explored.This study aimed to examine the potent phytoconstituents of the hydroalcoholic extract of G. verum L. (HEGV) using analytical techniques. Additionally, our study sought to evaluate the antioxidant, neuroprotective, anti-inflammatory properties, and antiepileptic potency of HEGV by targeting ADGRV1 via in silico and in vitro analyses using SHSY5Y cells.HPLC and LC-MS techniques were employed to identify the flavonoids, iridoids, and phenolic acid derivatives present in HEGV. DPPH (2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl), nitric oxide (NO), and hydroxyl (OH) radical scavenging assays were performed to confirm the antioxidant potential of the extract. Additionally, in silico molecular docking and molecular dynamic studies were performed using AutoDock Vina software to analyze the possible interactions between crucial phytoconstituents of HEGV and ADGRV1, followed by cell line analysis. In the in vitro analysis, antioxidant, neuroprotective, and anti-inflammatory properties were assessed via cell viability assay, IL, GABA, and glutamate estimation.LC-MS and HPLC analyses revealed high concentrations of hispidulin, a major flavonoid found in HEGV. HEGV exhibited moderate-to-high free radical-scavenging activities comparable to those of ascorbic acid. Docking analysis demonstrated that hispidulin has a stronger binding affinity with ADGRV1 (Vina score = -8.6 kcal/mol) than other compounds. Furthermore, cell line analysis revealed that the MSG exacerbates the neurodegeneration and neuroinflammation, whereas, HEGV and Hispidulin both possess neuroprotective, antioxidant, and antiepileptic activities.HEGV and Hispidulin proved to be promising candidates for treating audiogenic epilepsy by modulating ADGRV1.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a highly lethal vascular disease. The role of platelets in AAA remains incompletely understood. Here we show that platelet ceramides, rather than other phospholipids, were elevated in an angiotensin II (AngII)-induced AAA murine model and in patients with AAA by using targeted lipidomic analysis. Among key ceramide metabolism enzymes, alkaline ceramidase 1 (Acer1) hydrolyzing ceramides were exclusively downregulated in AAA platelets. Platelet-specific Acer1 knockout mice were more susceptible to AAA upon AngII infusion without affecting hemostasis and thrombosis. Mechanistically, Acer1 deficiency in platelets facilitated platelet pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion as well as P-selectin-mediated circulating platelet-leukocyte aggregation and infiltration in aortic walls via the ceramide-p38 MAPK signaling axis. Of note, AngII repressed Acer1 expression in platelets by decreasing HuR-dependent mRNA stability. In conclusion, Acer1-mediated ceramide degradation in platelets exhibited anti-inflammatory effects and ameliorated AAA formation, potentially serving as a therapeutic target for AAA and other inflammatory vascular diseases.© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Renal osteodystrophy (ROD) is a skeletal pathology associated with chronic kidney disease-mineral and bone disorder (CKD-MBD) that is characterized by aberrant bone mineralization and remodeling. ROD increases the risk of fracture and mortality in CKD patients. The underlying mechanisms of ROD remain elusive, partially due to the absence of an appropriate animal model. To address this gap, we established a stable mouse model of ROD using an optimized adenine-enriched diet and conducted exploratory analyses through ribonucleic acid sequencing (RNA-seq).Eight-week-old male C57BL/6J mice were randomly allocated into three groups: control group ( n = 5), adenine and high-phosphate (HP) diet group ( n = 20), and the optimized adenine-containing diet group ( n = 20) for 12 weeks. We assessed the skeletal characteristics of model mice through blood biochemistry, microcomputed tomography (micro-CT), and bone histomorphometry. RNA-seq was utilized to profile gene expression changes of ROD. We elucidated the functions of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) using gene ontology (GO) analysis, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis, and gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA). DEGs were validated via quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR).By the fifth week, adenine followed by an HP diet induced rapid weight loss and high mortality rates in the mouse group, precluding further model development. Mice with optimized adenine diet-induced ROD displayed significant abnormalities in serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen levels, accompanied by pronounced hyperparathyroidism and hyperphosphatemia. The femur bone mineral density (BMD) of the model mice was lower than that of control mice, with substantial bone loss and cortical porosity. ROD mice exhibited substantial bone turnover with an increase in osteoblast and osteoclast markers. Transcriptomic profiling revealed 1907 genes with upregulated expression and 723 genes with downregulated expression in the femurs of ROD mice relative to those of control mice. Pathway analyses indicated significant enrichment of upregulated genes in the sphingolipid metabolism pathway. The significant upregulation of alkaline ceramidase 1 ( Acer1 ), alkaline ceramidase 2 ( Acer2 ), prosaposin-like 1 ( Psapl1 ), adenosine A1 receptor ( Adora1 ), and sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 5 ( S1pr5 ) were successfully validated in mouse femurs by qRT-PCR.Optimized adenine diet mouse model may be a valuable proxy for studying ROD. RNA-seq analysis revealed that the sphingolipid metabolism pathway is likely a key player in ROD pathogenesis, thereby providing new avenues for therapeutic intervention.Copyright © 2024 The Chinese Medical Association, produced by Wolters Kluwer, Inc. under the CC-BY-NC-ND license.
The metal ion transporter SLC39A8 is associated with physiological traits and diseases, including blood manganese (Mn) levels and inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD). The mechanisms by which SLC39A8 controls Mn homeostasis and epithelial integrity remain elusive. Here, we generate Slc39a8 intestinal epithelial cell-specific-knockout (Slc39a8-IEC KO) mice, which display markedly decreased Mn levels in blood and most organs. Radiotracer studies reveal impaired intestinal absorption of dietary Mn in Slc39a8-IEC KO mice. SLC39A8 is localized to the apical membrane and mediates 54Mn uptake in intestinal organoid monolayer cultures. Unbiased transcriptomic analysis identifies alkaline ceramidase 1 (ACER1), a key enzyme in sphingolipid metabolism, as a potential therapeutic target for SLC39A8-associated IBDs. Importantly, treatment with an ACER1 inhibitor attenuates colitis in Slc39a8-IEC KO mice by remedying barrier dysfunction. Our results highlight the essential roles of SLC39A8 in intestinal Mn absorption and epithelial integrity and offer a therapeutic target for IBD associated with impaired Mn homeostasis.© 2024. The Author(s).
Efficient classification of T-acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) involves considering various factors, such as age, white blood cell count, and chromosomal alterations. However, studying protein markers are crucial to improving T-ALL patients' diagnosis and treatment. A study analyzing the expression of proteomes was conducted to identify promising early-stage biomarkers for T-ALL patients METHODS: Label-free liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was used to analyze the blood proteins of both patients and healthy individuals to identify new biomarkers for T-ALL. The findings were validated by RT-PCR, ELISA and computational analysis RESULTS: The study identified 1467 proteins in the blood, of which nine were upregulated and 35 were downregulated by more than 2-fold. T-ALL patients showed a significant increase in specific disease-related proteins, such as eleven-nineteen lysine-rich leukemia protein, triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 1, cisplatin resistance-associated-overexpressed protein, X-ray radiation resistance-associated protein 1, tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 10D, protein S100-A8, and copine-4, by more than 3-fold CONCLUSION: The findings of this study provide a valuable protein map of leukemic cells and identify potential biomarkers for leukemic aggressiveness. However, further studies using larger T-ALL patient samples must confirm these preliminary results.Copyright © 2024 Associação Brasileira de Hematologia, Hemoterapia e Terapia Celular. Published by Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.
Various cardiac and autonomic manifestations are frequently reported during seizures. Among the seizure-related arrhythmia, ictal tachycardia is the most common, followed by ictal bradycardia, with ictal asystole being the rarest. The occurrence of ictal asystole may obscure the clinical presentation and delay the diagnosis, representing a life-threatening presentation of epilepsy, with an elevated risk of sudden unexpected death in epilepsy patients (SUDEP). These cardiac abnormalities are being increasingly recognized as the key to elucidating the mechanisms of SUDEP.We present a 35-year-old man with a history of focal-onset seizures with impaired consciousness since his mid-20 s. He developed different types of seizures for 2 years, described as tonic seizure and atonic seizure (drop attack). During such clinical events, he suffered from falls and cardiac arrest. However, thorough cardiac electrophysiology and imaging workup failed to reveal a cardiac etiology. Subsequent video electroencephalograph (EEG) monitoring was performed, and ictal bradycardia and ictal asystole were discovered. A cardiac pacemaker was implanted, and at 3-year follow-up, the patient did not suffer more atonic seizures, or falls. Genetic tests discovered a de novo variant of Adhesion G Protein-Coupled Receptor V1 (ADGRV1), which may provide a clue for the patient's ictal asystole and the increased risk of SUDEP.Considering the important impact of ictal bradycardia and asystole on the morbidity and potential mortality of epileptic patients, it is important to simultaneously utilize EEG and electrocardiogram to confirm the diagnosis. This case report highlights the link between the de novo variant of ADGRV1 and the ictal bradycardia/asystole phenotype and implicates the importance of genetic testing in adult epilepsy patients.© 2023. The Author(s).
Thoracic aortic aneurysm and dissection (TAAD) is a life-threatening cardiovascular disorder; current clinical imaging approaches primarily detect structural abnormalities at late stages and fail to enable early diagnosis or dynamic therapeutic monitoring. Here, we develop a targeted, tandem-activated artificial urinary biomarker sensor (TADEI) for real-time optical imaging and urinalysis of early biomarkers associated with TAAD. After identifying biomarkers from patient tissue samples, TADEI was designed with three key components conjugated to a near-infrared fluorophore: a VCAM-1-targeting moiety (overexpressed on inflamed endothelial cells), tandem-responsive substrates for caspase-1 (an inflammation mediator) and legumain (a protease relevant to vascular remodeling), and a renal-clearance-enabling moiety. TADEI specifically targets TAAD lesions and activates its fluorescence upon reaction with these early biomarkers after systemic administration. Meanwhile, TADEI is excreted into urine via renal clearance (≈76%), converting TAAD biomarker levels into urinary signals for optical urinalysis. In a mouse model, a TADEI-based urine test detected TAAD at least 12 days earlier than ultrasound imaging and 16 days earlier than plasma D-dimer assays. The correlation between the urinary signal of activated TADEI and disease severity guided intervention that effectively inhibited TAAD progression, achieving 100% survival compared with 73% for ultrasound-guided therapy and 40% without treatment.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Compared with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy, antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) offer distinct advantages. Here, we report on two FGFR4-targeted ADCs, using the high-affinity monoclonal antibody 3A11, the same binder used in a CAR T cell format that is being evaluated at the NCI (NCT06865664) for patients with relapsed/refractory rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS). These ADCs, conjugated to monomethyl auristatin E (MMAE) or an exatecan derivative, are rapidly internalized, causing potent fibroblast growth factor receptor 4 (FGFR4)-dependent cytotoxicity in vitro. In subcutaneous RMS xenograft models, both ADCs demonstrated robust anti-tumor activities, significantly prolonging survival. Notably, exatecan-ADC showed better efficacy, with durable tumor control, in aggressive fusion-negative (FN) RMS559 and fusion-positive (FP) RH4 RMS cell-line-derived xenografts (CDXs) and a patient-derived RMS xenograft (PDX). Furthermore, exatecan-ADC effectively controls tumors in an FGFR4-expressing MDA-MB-453 breast cancer mouse model, eradicating relapsed tumors with retreatment. These findings highlight FGFR4-targeted ADCs as potent therapeutic agents against aggressive FGFR4-expressing malignancies, supporting their further clinical development.Published by Elsevier Inc.
Ventricular remodeling is a key pathological feature of chronic heart failure (CHF). Following myocardial infarction (MI), impaired macrophage efferocytosis sustains cardiac inflammation, disrupts tissue repair, and accelerates adverse remodeling and dysfunction. Qishen Granules (QSG) is a classical traditional Chinese medicine formulation used in the clinical treatment of heart failure. However, its regulatory effects on efferocytosis in resident cardiac macrophages (RCMs) remain unclear.This study aimed to elucidate the molecular mechanisms by which QSG regulates Legumain-mediated efferocytosis in RCMs and to identify the key bioactive compounds.A mouse model of post-MI heart failure was established via ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery. The therapeutic effects of QSG were evaluated in isolated RCMs obtained using magnetic-activated cell sorting. Mechanistic investigations were conducted using transcriptomic analysis, network pharmacology, live-cell imaging, and siRNA-mediated gene silencing. In addition, UPLC-Q-Exactive MS, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulations were employed to systematically study the active compounds of QSG.QSG treatment restored the population of RCMs and enhanced their efferocytic capacity in CHF, thereby reducing cardiomyocyte apoptosis, promoting inflammatory resolution, and improving ventricular structure and function. Mechanistically, QSG upregulated Legumain expression and activated the Arg1/Rac1 signaling axis to facilitate cytoskeletal remodeling and enhance phagocytic efficiency. Further analyses identified tanshinone IIA, neocryptotanshinone and calycosin as the core bioactive compounds of QSG. All three compounds upregulated Legumain expression and exhibited stable binding affinity toward Legumain.QSG restores efferocytic capacity in RCMs by targeting the Legumain/Arg1/Rac1 signaling axis, thereby attenuating adverse ventricular remodeling in CHF.© 2026. The Author(s).
Amoeboid cell migration is key to efficient T cell immunity. Spatial polarization of organelles within cells, including endo-lysosomes, is a prerequisite of migration. However, how ultrastructural polarization is linked to the signaling requirements governing T cell migration remains unknown. Here we show that signaling molecules generated by endo-lysosome-localized kinases regulate velocity of amoeboid migration. Specifically, imaging of T cells identifies accumulation of endo-lysosomes decorated with the lipid kinases VPS34-PIKfyve at the uropod of polarized cells. Activity of VPS34 and PIKfyve regulates speed, but not directedness, of migrating T cells. Mechanistically, PI(3,5)P2 generated by the sequential action of VPS34 and PIKfyve, mediates Ca2+ efflux from lysosomes via the mucolipin TRP cation channel 1 (TRPML1), thus controlling activity of myosin IIA and hence the generation of propulsive force through retrograde actin flow. The VPS34-PIKfyve kinases also regulate velocity of myeloid cells, as well as of the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum - establishing the axis as an evolutionarily conserved speed control system of amoeboid cell migration.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) is a fatal interstitial lung disease characterized by excessive extracellular matrix deposition and irreversible architectural distortion. The mechanisms driving the transition from tissue repair to fibrosis are complex and remain poorly understood. By analyzing interpatient variation across 75 idiopathic PF lungs, we identified a conserved profibrotic macrophage subset, distinct from canonical M1/M2 or SPP1+ states, characterized by high legumain (LGMN) expression and enrichment of gene signatures implicated in leukocyte activation and matrix remodeling. LGMN + macrophages localize within fibroblastic foci and are associated with disease progression and poor prognosis. Lineage-tracing and RNA velocity analyses revealed that LGMN + macrophages arise from monocytes through fibroblast-derived macrophage colony-stimulating factor signaling, which activates Maf BZIP transcription factor B-dependent differentiation programs. Pharmacological inhibition or macrophage-specific deletion of Lgmn markedly attenuated bleomycin-induced lung fibrosis, reduced extracellular matrix accumulation, and improved lung architecture. LGMN activates cathepsin S to mediate degradation of basement membrane collagen IV, thereby disrupting the alveolar-capillary barrier. In parallel, secreted LGMN acts as a paracrine signal to activate fibroblasts and promote collagen I deposition, collectively fostering a profibrotic niche. Together, these findings establish LGMN as a macrophage effector that links immune activation to matrix remodeling, thereby driving the transition from tissue injury to fibrosis.Copyright © 2026 Zhongzheng Li et al.
Despite its critical role in treating localized breast cancer, radiotherapy (RT) rarely provokes systemic immune responses or abscopal effects. In this work, immunological profiling reveals that RT upregulates CD47 and PD-L1 expressions in tumor cells and promotes the accumulation of M2-type tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), suggesting a potential immunosuppressive mechanism that restricts abscopal responses. To overcome this limitation, a legumain-activated radio-immunological synergist (LARIS) is rationally designed to amplify RT-induced abscopal effects through dual CD47/PD-L1 blockade and TAM repolarization. LARIS is constructed from a bispecific immune checkpoint blockade chimeric peptide (BiCCP) linking CD47-and PD-L1-blocking peptides via a legumain-cleavable linker, and co-formulated with the Toll-like receptor 7/8 agonist R848. Within the tumor microenvironment, abundant legumain can cleave LARIS to release R848 together with the checkpoint blockade peptides, thereby reprogramming TAMs toward an M1 phenotype and mitigating CD47/PD-L1-mediated immune evasion. Both in vitro and in vivo studies demonstrated that LARIS significantly enhances systemic antitumor immunity and effectively induces abscopal responses of RT, thus suppressing the growth of distant and rechallenged tumors. Overall, this work offers a promising strategy to counteract RT-induced immunosuppression and potentiate abscopal effects for improved breast cancer therapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Stefins, members of the cystatin superfamily, regulate cysteine proteases, yet their roles in early-branching metazoans remain poorly defined. Here, we characterize Smolstatin1, a cystatin-like stefin from the myxozoan Sphaerospora molnari, a common carp pathogen. Phylogenetic analysis places Smolstatin1 within a monophyletic clade of myxozoan cystatin-like stefins that groups with homologues from foodborne flukes and canonical metazoan stefins. Smolstatin1 is expressed throughout intrapiscine development, is upregulated during sporogony, and localizes to membrane-bound compartments and the blood-stage surface. Recombinant Smolstatin1 inhibits parasite and host cysteine proteases, with strongest activity toward cathepsin L-like enzymes and weaker activity against legumain, while showing negligible effects on serine proteases. RNAi-mediated knockdown reduces parasite motility and alters cell integrity, suggesting a role in parasite fitness and development. Structural analysis reveals an unusual domain-swapped dimer. Although antigenic, Smolstatin1 vaccination does not protect fish from infection. Together, these findings identify Smolstatin1 as a key protease regulator and expand our understanding of cystatin evolution and function.© 2026 The Authors.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42552207
Cartilage and osteochondral disorders pose an increasing clinical, economic, and social challenge. With an aging population, there is a need to develop innovative, nonsurgical strategies for treating defects, fractures, and other osteochondral disorders. Bone implants require surgical intervention, carry a risk of complications, are expensive, and do not always provide comfort to the patient. Alternatively, stimulation of bone regeneration using synthetic peptides is a promising and less invasive option in the treatment of trauma, orthopedics, craniofacial surgery, and dentistry. In the present study, we evaluated the biological effects of two peptides: the novel peptide UG27 and CDP4 derived from the protein Cpne7 (Copine 7), on the activity of adipose tissue-derived mesenchymal stem cells. Using labeling, differentiation, and imaging methods, we demonstrated the effect of UG27 on viability, biomineralization, extracellular matrix, and calcium salt growth in osteocytes. The peptides were immunologically safe and stimulated cell migration without showing any cytotoxic effects. The peptide, UG27, has an active connection with the biomaterial and is a promising compound in bone injury therapies.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder characterized by impaired memory and cognitive decline. The early stages of AD in mice present with neuropathy in the hippocampus. Excessive mitochondrial fragmentation and dysfunction are critical pathological features of AD. Chloride intracellular channel 4 (CLIC4) is involved in neuronal apoptosis and regulates mitochondrial functions. Glial maturation factor β (GMFβ) inhibits mitochondrial DNA replication and energy metabolism, causes mitochondrial dysfunction, and regulates apoptosis. Dynamic related protein 1 (DRP1), a key protein in mitochondrial division, exhibits increased activity when its Ser616 site is phosphorylated. However, the role of CLIC4 in Aβ-induced cognitive impairment through the modulation of GMFβ and p-DRP1 (Ser616) to induce mitochondrial dysfunction remains unclear. This study examined the role of CLIC4 in Aβ-induced cognitive impairment in AD mice, focusing on its regulation of GMFβ and p-DRP1 (Ser616) and the subsequent effects on mitochondrial hyperfission and dysfunction. Our findings demonstrate that overexpression of CLIC4 in the mouse hippocampus or in HT22 cells resulted in pathological changes analogous to those observed following Aβ exposure. These changes include elevated levels of GMFβ and p-DRP1 (Ser616) proteins, mitochondrial fission, and increased intracellular ROS production. Conversely, CLIC4 knockdown mitigated Aβ-induced neuronal damage. These findings indicate that CLIC4 may be crucial in Aβ-induced hippocampal neurological damage in mice by regulating GMFβ and DRP1 phosphorylation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Plant positive-strand RNA viruses establish viral replication complexes (VRCs) by remodelling intracellular membranes, primarily the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and recruiting host proteins to these structures. To identify ER-associated host proteins involved in potexvirus replication, we developed a multi-control proximity labelling approach using TurboID-fused constructs that localise to the cytosol, the ER lumen and the ER membrane. This strategy enabled specific identification of host factors that are proximal to the methyltransferase (MET) domain of Plantago asiatica mosaic virus (PlAMV) replicase, distinguishing them from general ER-associated proteins. Our proximity labelling identified 33 host factors associated with the PlAMV MET domain, 28 of which showed exclusive enrichment compared to all three controls. Subcellular localization prediction revealed that MET-proximal proteins predominantly associate with chloroplasts, the cytosol and mitochondria rather than the ER. This suggests that the MET domain localises to specialised ER membrane subdomains interfacing with multiple organelles. Functional analysis of three selected candidates, calcyclin-binding protein (NbCBP), remorin1.5 (NbREM1.5) and calcium-sensing receptor (NbCAS), revealed their antiviral roles. Virus-induced gene silencing of these factors significantly enhanced PlAMV accumulation. Co-immunoprecipitation demonstrated physical interactions between the three host factors and the MET domain, while confocal microscopy revealed their relocalization to specific subcellular sites during co-expression with MET. These results demonstrate that potexvirus VRCs interact with diverse host factors from multiple organelles, providing new insights into plant-virus interaction networks.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Plant Pathology published by British Society for Plant Pathology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Chloride ions (Cl) regulate sperm physiology, influencing spermatogenesis, volume regulation, capacitation, and fertilization processes. They contribute to the maintenance of membrane potential and intracellular pH, both of which are critical for sperm motility and capacitation. Any deviation in Cl homeostasis causes impaired sperm function and male infertility. Although several Cl channels and transporters have been implicated in the Cl homeostasis and osmoregulation of sperm cells, the precise mechanisms and molecular components governing volume regulation during sperm development remain unclear.We used a combination of electrophysiological recordings via the patch-clamp technique and biochemical analyses, including western blotting and immunocytochemistry, to demonstrate the functional expression of a novel chloride channel, Chloride Intracellular Channel 4 (CLIC4), in the plasma membrane of sperm cells. To assess physiological roles, we analyzed sperm cells from wild type and null mutant mice (clic4-/-), measuring motility, morphology and acrosome reaction.We identified previously uncharacterized IAA-94-sensitive chloride currents in mouse sperm cells. Genetic ablation of CLIC4 eliminated these IAA-94-sensitive currents. Notably, CLIC4 regulates cell volume during sperm maturation without altering membrane potential, motility, or the acrosome reaction. CLIC4 activity in sperm cells is modulated by Protein Kinase C (PKC).CLIC4 is a key component of the sperm cell volume regulation machinery, modulating Cl fluxes during maturation. These findings provide new insights into the molecular basis of sperm osmoregulation and may inform therapeutic strategies for male infertility.© 2026. The Author(s).
Vascular leakage is a major cause of multiple organ failure and mortality in sepsis, and factors that regulate endothelial integrity could serve as promising biomarkers of septic shock development. Copine family members (CPNEs) are well-characterized as soluble membrane-binding proteins, whether CPNEs play a critical role in maintaining vascular integrity during sepsis, however, remains unclear.Human aorta single-nucleus RNA-sequencing data were analyzed for the expression profile of all Copine family members (CPNE1-9). Plasma levels of CPNE5, Ang-II, sICAM-1, and SDC-1 were measured in human sepsis patients at admission and healthy donors as well as in septic mice induced by injection i.p. with cecal slurry. The correlation of CPNE5 levels to other three factors (Ang-II, sICAM-1, SDC-1) were analyzed. CPNE5-knockdown endothelial cells (ECs) and global CPNE5-knockout (KO) mice were utilized to determine the critical role of CPNE5 in sepsis-triggered vascular leakage, organ damage and mortality.Among nine CPNEs, only CPNE5 is predominantly expressed in human aorta endothelial cells. In sepsis patients (n = 77), plasma levels of CPNE5 were significantly reduced, whereas plasma levels of Ang-II, sICAM-1, and SDC-1 were markedly elevated, compared to healthy donors (n = 44; p < 0.01). Similar findings were also observed in a murine sepsis model induced by cecal slurry (CS)-injection intraperitoneally. Furthermore, in the supernatants of cultured ECs treated with LPS or pro-inflammatory cytokine mixture (Cytomix: TNFα/IL-1β/IFNγ, each 10 ng/mL), the concentrations of CPNE5 were significantly lower, which was negatively correlated with the higher EC permeability, compared to the control group. Accordingly, siRNA-mediated knockdown of CPNE5 in ECs caused hyperpermeability upon stimulation with LPS or Cytomix. In vivo, we observed that loss of CPNE5 increased vascular leakage, leading to severe organ injury and higher mortality, compared to WT mice upon septic conditions. The initial mechanistic analysis showed that the reduction of CPNE5 in cardiac and pulmonary ECs was linked to the increased cleavage of membrane tight junctions and adherens junctions.These observations from human sepsis patients and a murine sepsis model suggest that reduced plasma levels of CPNE5 may contribute to sepsis-induced vascular leakage and mortality.© 2025. The Author(s).
Neuronal morphogenesis relies on intercellular signaling. Astrocytes release metabolites, trophic, and guidance factors to promote neuronal maturation. In contrast, the mechanisms by which astrocytes could limit and stabilize neuronal connectivity remain less explored. Here, we find cortical astrocytes to express and release S100A6, a Ca2+-binding protein ('calcyclin'). Simultaneously, the majority of cortical neurons expressed calcyclin-binding protein (CaCyBp), a bona fide binding partner for S100A6. In neurons, CaCyBp maintains the unfolded protein response pathway, thereby controlling proteostasis. When released, S100A6 inhibits CaCyBp-mediated signaling, thus slowing protein turnover, and, consequently, neuritogenesis. In the cerebral cortex of male mice, S100A6-CaCyBp signaling during gestation is sensitive to the mother's nutritional status, particularly eicosapentaenoic acid intake. Thus, a member of the S100 protein family acts as an astroglia-derived morphogen, whose action on neurons is modulated by environmental factors.© 2025. The Author(s).
Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is an autoimmune disease, which is characterized by fibrosis of the skin, progressing to affect the internal organs in the most serve cases. Type 1 interferon (IFN) signalling plays a major role in SSc disease progression. The cytokine TGF-β has been extensively shown to be a major driver of fibrosis but its role in the induction of the type 1 interferon response is poorly understood.Type 1 IFN signalling was activated in keratinocytes using a range of agonists, IFN2α, Poly I:C, Poly dA:dT, LPS and TGF-β. CLIC4 activity was inhibited with the small molecule chloride channel inhibitors NPPB, IAA:94 and siRNA specific to CLIC4. Conditioned media collected from Healthy and SSc dermal fibroblasts was used to stimulate keratinocytes.TGF-β stimulation induces a type 1 IFN response in keratinocytes, dependent on the chloride intracellular channel 4 (CLIC4). Inhibition of CLIC4 via small molecule inhibitors or siRNA attenuates TGF-β mediated activation of Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription 1 (STAT1) in keratinocytes. Further analysis revealed SSc dermal fibroblasts induce a type 1 IFN response in keratinocytes in part through a TGFβR1-CLIC4 axis.This study shows the ability of CLIC4 to enhance TGF-β signalling is essential for aberrant type 1 interferon signalling in SSc skin.© 2025. The Author(s).
Sepsis is characterized by potentially fatal organ failure resulting from the host's abnormal response to infection. Due to the complex and rapid progression of sepsis, timely diagnosis and intervention are required to improve patient prognosis. Copper-dependent cell death, known as "cuproptosis," is a newly discovered mode of cell death that relies on copper. Senescence refers to a state of irreversible cessation of cell division. Both processes play significant roles in various diseases. However, the roles of genes related to cuproptosis and senescence in the pathogenesis of sepsis remain insufficiently understood. In this study, we utilized bioinformatics techniques to explore the involvement of copper-dependent cell death and its connections to sepsis and cellular senescence. We obtained 3 sepsis datasets (GSE28750, GSE54514, and GSE131761) from the Gene Expression Omnibus database and classified the raw data using R packages (R Foundation for Statistical Computing). Copper death- and aging-related genes were manually screened, and differentially expressed cuproptosis and cellular senescence-related differentially expressed genes associated with sepsis were identified. Subsequently, enrichment analysis was applied, and key genes were screened using machine learning techniques for the construction and validation of a sepsis diagnostic model. We then constructed mRNA-miRNA and mRNA-transcription factors interaction networks for the key genes, followed by differential gene analysis, immune infiltration, and enrichment analysis. We identified 17 cuproptosis and cellular senescence-related differentially expressed genes and performed gene enrichment analysis. Subsequently, using least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression analysis and random forest algorithm, we identified sepsis-related cuproptosis and senescence-associated differentially expressed genes. After taking the intersection, we obtained 11 key genes. Next, through immune infiltration analysis, we found a positive correlation between pyruvate dehydrogenase E1 subunit beta (PDHB) and central memory cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4) T cells, glutaminase and activated CD8 T cells, as well as prion protein, PDHB, and monocytic lineage. There was a negative correlation between PDHB and type 17 T helper cells, amyloid beta precursor protein and activated CD8 T cells, PDHB and neutrophils, and CD274 and B lineage cells. These results suggest that cuproptosis may promote the development of sepsis by affecting the immune system and metabolic functions, providing new insights into the potential pathogenic mechanisms and therapeutic targets of sepsis.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Spatiotemporal spreading of amyloid-β peptide deposition as senile plaques is a key pathogenic process in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease; however, the molecular properties of amyloid-β strains that initiate the spreading of amyloid-β peptide as aggregation seeds in vivo remain poorly understood. In this study, we discovered that the intrahippocampal injection of soluble amyloid-β species with a molecular weight of >150 kDa isolated from the brains of plaque-laden amyloid-β precursor protein transgenic mice or patients with Alzheimer's disease using size-exclusion chromatography, dramatically accelerated β-amyloidosis in the transgenic mice brains. In contrast, intrahippocampal injection of soluble amyloid-β species with 50-70 kDa or 10-20 kDa never induced β-amyloidosis. Moreover, injection of the soluble amyloid-β species with >150 kDa into cerebrospinal fluid of young transgenic mice via the cisterna magna predominantly induced amyloid-β deposition within the wall of leptomeningeal arteries surrounding the brain, reminiscent of cerebral amyloid angiopathy. The seeding activity of the soluble high-molecular-weight amyloid-β was prevented by the immunodepletion of amyloid-β and abolished by formic acid denaturation, suggesting that these amyloid-β oligomers are crucial in inducing β-amyloidosis. Furthermore, we have shown that the soluble high-molecular-weight amyloid-β is present in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease and induced β-amyloidosis. These results indicate that the soluble high-molecular-weight amyloid-β oligomers may play an important role in the spatiotemporal spreading of amyloid-β deposition in Alzheimer's disease brains.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain.
Immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN) is a leading cause of chronic kidney disease, marked by mesangial IgA1 immune-complex deposition and a multi-hit pathogenesis. The Oxford classification grades histopathological lesions such as endocapillary hypercellularity (E0 and E1), which are associated with disease severity and prognosis. Despite advances in single-cell and spatial transcriptomics, the molecular basis of endocapillary hypercellularity in human IgAN remains unclear.Spatial transcriptomic data obtained using the GeoMx DSP platform from kidney biopsy specimens of East Asian patients were analyzed to compare gene expression profiles across normal, E0, and E1 groups. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, and subsequent gene ontology and protein-protein interaction network analyses were performed to investigate functional pathways and molecular interactions.Analysis identified 50 DEGs between E0 and controls, with more extensive changes in E1 compared with both E0 and controls (342 and 223 DEGs, respectively). E1 lesions displayed distinct molecular signatures, including the novel downregulation of amyloid beta precursor protein, cluster of differentiation 47, and integrin alpha V, along with well-known interactions among involving dual-specificity phosphatase 1, early growth response 1, and Fos proto-oncogene. Functional enrichment highlighted pathways related to ion response and mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase signaling.This study provides new insights into the molecular changes associated with endocapillary hypercellularity in IgAN progression. The identified gene signatures and pathways may serve as potential biomarkers of disease activity and targets for therapeutic intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
Prostate cancer (PCa) is characterized by a unique metabolic dependency on the hyperactivated tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, creating a distinct vulnerability to cuproptosis-a copper-dependent form of regulated cell death. However, metabolic plasticity allows tumor cells to evade single-pathway inhibition through compensatory glycolysis, limiting the efficacy of copper-based therapies. Therefore, there is an urgent need to develop integrated nanoplatforms capable of orchestrating a dual-pathway metabolic blockade to overcome this therapeutic resistance.Herein, we engineered a self-assembling copper-epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) nanoreactor (Cu-EQ NP) designed to execute a synchronized dual-metabolic assault. The Cu-EQ NPs leverage the tumor microenvironment to release copper ions that trigger TCA-dependent cuproptosis, while the EGCG component simultaneously inhibits key glycolytic enzymes to prevent metabolic escape. Mechanistically, this lethality is self-amplified by EGCG-quinone-mediated depletion of glutathione (GSH) and the downregulation of the ATPase copper-transporting beta (ATP7B) efflux pump, leading to irreversible intracellular copper accumulation. Furthermore, we demonstrate that this metabolic collapse is highly immunogenic. In a syngeneic RM-1 mouse model, Cu-EQ NP-induced immunogenic cell death (ICD) released damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) that successfully transformed the immunologically "cold" tumor microenvironment. This remodeling was characterized by enhanced dendritic cell maturation, M2-to-M1 macrophage repolarization, and robust infiltration of cytotoxic CD8 + T cells, resulting in potent tumor regression.The Cu-EQ nanoreactor represents a precision nanomedicine strategy that converts the specific metabolic vulnerabilities of PCa into a fatal weakness. By integrating dual-metabolic disruption with robust immune activation, this platform offers a promising therapeutic paradigm for overcoming resistance in advanced prostate cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Selective autophagy maintains organelle and proteome homeostasis through receptor-mediated degradation of damaged membranes and aggregation-prone proteins. Although autophagy dysfunction and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) abnormalities are prominent features of Alzheimer's disease (AD), whether reticulophagy directly contributes to amyloid precursor protein (APP) turnover has remained unclear. We identify FAM134B/RETREG1 as a specific receptor that recognizes ER-localized APP and promotes its lysosomal degradation through LC3-dependent reticulophagy. In AD patient samples and 5XFAD mice, epigenetic repression of FAM134B limits TFEB/TFE3-dependent transcription, resulting in impaired ER turnover, APP accumulation, and exacerbated amyloid pathology. Restoration of wild-type, but not LIR-mutant, FAM134B rescues reticulophagy, reduces APP and Aβ accumulation, preserves neuronal integrity, and improves cognition in 5XFAD mice. These findings establish impaired reticulophagy as an upstream pathogenic mechanism in AD and highlight FAM134B-mediated ER turnover as a potential therapeutic strategy for limiting amyloidogenic APP accumulation.
Whether cholinergic activity in the septohippocampal network affects cognitive dysfunction via hippocampal cholinergic neurostimulating peptide (HCNP) in Alzheimer's pathogenesis remains unclear.An Alzheimer's pathogenesis by mutation in amyloid-beta precursor protein gene (AppNL-G-F) knock-in (KI) and HCNP precursor protein conditional knockout (HCNP-pp cKO) mouse model was generated, exhibiting both cholinergic dysfunction and amyloid pathogenesis. Theta power-related cholinergic function and long-term potentiation (LTP) were evaluated in AppNL-G-F KI/HCNP-pp cKO mice. Molecules associated with the cholinergic/glutamatergic neurons, amyloid beta (Aβ), and inflammation were examined.Reduced HCNP levels enhanced cognitive impairment, inhibiting theta power and LTP, although without accompanying pathological changes or inflammation. Decreased N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 2A (NR2A), choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), and Vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) levels were observed in the hippocampus and ChAT in the medial septal nucleus (MSN) of AppNL-G-F KI/HCNP-pp cKO mice.Cholinergic dysfunction in HCNP-pp cKO mice exacerbates cognitive dysfunction in AppNL-G-F KI mice. The obtained mouse models are expected to be used to investigate cholinergic dysfunction and amyloid pathogenesis in AD.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and acute ischemic stroke (AIS) are major cerebral pathologies that impose significant social and economic burdens. The high prevalence of multimorbidity in older adults is often attributed to shared risk factors like hypertension, smoking, and diabetes. AIS, through vascular complications and acute inflammation, may accelerate AD pathology and cognitive decline. However, the extent to which AIS exacerbates AD-related neurodegeneration remains unclear. To investigate this interaction, we used the 3xTg-AD mouse model, which exhibits both amyloid-beta (Aβ) and Tau pathologies, to assess the impact of AIS on AD progression. Eight-month-old control B6129SF2/J and 3xTg-AD mice underwent a 45-min transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) followed by reperfusion at different time points to induce ischemic stroke. Mice were sacrificed at 3- and 50-days post-stroke, and brain tissues were analyzed via western blot and immunohistochemistry to evaluate protein changes. Additionally, we assessed long-term functional impairments in these mice. Our findings show that 3xTg-AD mice had higher infarct volumes, Aβ accumulation, and amyloid-beta precursor protein (AβPP) levels while the total Tau levels were reduced as compared with wild-type (WT) control B6129SF2/J mice after AIS. Functionally, 3xTg-AD mice showed more severe impairments in spatial memory and locomotion tasks post-stroke. Overall, our study demonstrates that AIS worsens AD pathology in 3xTg-AD mice, leading to greater neurodegeneration, functional decline, and increased mortality. These findings highlight the detrimental impact of cerebrovascular events on AD progression, emphasizing the need for targeted interventions in stroke-affected AD patients.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42178909 is a review article
Zinc finger and BTB domain‑containing protein 16 (ZBTB16) plays diverse roles in a number of different cancer types, but its function and mechanism in esophageal cancer remain ambiguous. The present study was, to the best of our knowledge, the first demonstration that ZBTB16 was highly expressed in esophageal cancer tissues and cell lines. Knockdown of ZBTB16 significantly inhibited the proliferation and migration of esophageal cancer cells. Furthermore, ZBTB16 silencing increased the rate of cell death in esophageal cancer cells and induced mitochondrial membrane potential loss, intracellular copper accumulation and elevated oxidative stress. Mechanistically, knockdown of ZBTB16 downregulated the expression of ATPase copper‑transporting α and ATPase copper‑transporting β (ATP7B), while upregulating copper uptake protein 1 and ferredoxin. The present study further demonstrated that ZBTB16 knockdown increased the production of reactive oxygen species, which was partially rescued by ATP7B overexpression. In a mouse xenograft model of esophageal cancer, ZBTB16 knockdown markedly suppressed tumor growth, significantly reduced tumor weight and volume and notably altered the expression of cuproptosis‑related proteins in vivo. Summarily, ZBTB16 promoted the development of esophageal cancer by regulating copper homeostasis and oxidative stress. Therefore, ZBTB16 may represent a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of esophageal cancer.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized not only by progressive motor deficits but also by non-motor symptoms, such as depression, which often emerge during the prodromal stage and significantly impair quality of life. While Akkermansia muciniphila (AKK) has shown potential in modulating neuroinflammation, its specific role and underlying mechanisms in alleviating PD-associated non-motor symptoms remain unclear. In this study, we investigated the effects of AKK intervention in 16-month-old female A53T α-synuclein (α-syn) transgenic mice. Behavioral assessments revealed that oral administration of AKK significantly ameliorated depression-like behaviors, evidenced by reduced immobility in the forced swim test and increased sucrose preference, without affecting motor function, spatial memory, or gastrointestinal motility. Mechanistically, the intervention exhibited genotype-specific effects: AKK significantly increased plasma 5-HT levels in C57 mice. This increase was associated with an enrichment of Lactobacillus taiwanensis and metabolic pathways favoring peripheral tryptophan conversion. Conversely, in A53T mice, the treatment specifically elevated hippocampal 5-HT levels without altering plasma concentrations. This central effect correlated with distinct microbial remodeling, characterized by the enrichment of butyrate/propionate-producing Lachnospiraceae and the activation of purine degradation. Collectively, these findings provide novel mechanistic insights into the therapeutic potential of AKK for managing non-motor symptoms in PD. While limited to a female cohort, our results suggest that AKK ameliorates depression-like behaviors in PD through sex-specific remodeling of the gut microbiome and serotonergic signaling.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Long-term excessive fluoride intake accumulates in brain tissue, causing neuronal degeneration and nervous system dysfunction. This mechanism is closely related to elevated oxidative stress. α-Synuclein (α-Syn) is expressed in neuronal presynaptic terminals; under environmental toxin exposure or oxidative stress, its expression changes and it misfolds into oligomers and aggregates that are cytotoxic and induce oxidative cellular damage. Meanwhile, the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)-NAD(P)H: quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1)/heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) pathway is an important cellular system for regulating oxidative damage, and its core kinase is mainly expressed in brain astrocytes.The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of fluoride exposure on oxidative stress levels in astrocytes and the expression of α-Syn within the Nrf2-NQO1/HO-1 pathway. Primary astrocytes were treated with extracellular α-synuclein pre-formed fibrils (αSP) in conjunction with fluoride exposure. The results demonstrated that fluoride exposure induced reactive activation of primary astrocytes, increased levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS), decreased activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT), and up-regulated the protein expression within the Nrf2-NQO1/HO-1 pathway. αSP caused oxidative stress in primary astrocytes and exacerbated oxidative damage induced by fluoride exposure. These findings are significant for enhancing the understanding of the mechanisms underlying brain injury associated with chronic fluorosis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Despite multiple therapeutic strategies, a significant proportion of psoriatic patients fail to achieve complete/sustained disease clearance, highlighting the need for effective adjuvant or alternative therapy. Melittin, the main component in bee venom, exhibits valuable anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory properties in various diseases; meanwhile, its effect on psoriasis has not been explored yet. Our study aims to investigate the anti-psoriatic effect of melittin with possible involvement of phosphoinositide 3-kinase/protein kinase B (PI3K/Akt) and the autophagy pathways. Mice were divided into 5 groups: Control group, Imiquimod (IMQ) group, and groups (3-5) received daily intraperitoneal injections of methotrexate (MTX, 1 mg/kg), melittin (40 mg/kg), or melittin (80 mg/kg), respectively. All groups except the control received topical IMQ for seven days. Melittin 80 demonstrated superior efficacy, significantly reducing the clinical Psoriasis Area and Severity Index score by 60% and epidermal thickening by 58.55%. Mel 80 decreased malondialdehyde by 62.32%, increased glutathione by 1.44-fold, and reduced nuclear factor-kappa B p65, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin (IL)-1 beta, IL-6, IL-23, and IL-17 levels by 72.10%, 83.70%, 61.54%, and 58.09%, 64.55%, and 55.19%, indicating suppression of the pathogenic IL-23/IL-17 axis. Furthermore, Melittin 80 inhibited PI3K/Akt pathway, decreasing p-Akt and PI3K by 50.88% and 57.30%, leading to downregulation of phosphorylated mammalian target of rapamycin (p-mTOR) by 58.53% and a 3.01-fold increase in Beclin-1, indicating restored autophagy. Epidermal proliferation was reduced, with a 58.80% reduction in Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor and 46.51% reduction in Ki67 expression. These results suggest that melittin may represent a promising antioxidant and anti-inflammatory agent for psoriasis, acting through PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway inhibition and autophagy restoration.© 2026. The Author(s).
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by motor deficits and debilitating non-motor symptoms (NMS), including depression, anxiety, and cognitive impairment. While current therapies alleviate motor dysfunction, NMS management remains a critical unmet need. Pramipexole (PPX), a non-ergoline dopamine agonist with high selectivity for D2/D3 receptors (particularly D3), demonstrates potential for multi-target modulation beyond motor improvement. To systematically evaluate the efficacy of PPX against NMS and elucidate its novel mechanism involving autophagy regulation, a dual neurotoxin-induced PD mouse model (MPTP and DSP-4; MPTP:1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine; DSP-4: N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine) recapitulating both motor and NMS was employed. PPX significantly improved NMS, reducing anxiety/depressive -like behavior and cognitive decline, alongside restoring motor function. Moreover, PPX administration promoted survival of dopaminergic and noradrenergic neurons and preserved synaptic integrity in a double lesion model of PD. In our molecular detection, PPX treatment was accompanied by enhanced key components of autophagy (Beclin-1/P62) and rectified deficient mitophagy (BNIP3L/PINK1/Parkin). This study identifies PPX as a dual-action therapeutic that concurrently alleviates motor/NMS in PD model mice, and this therapeutic effect may be associated with altered expression of autophagy-related proteins.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Daturaolone is an amyrin-type triterpenoid isolated from Datura metel L. which was evaluated in the current study as a multitarget inhibitor of enzymes implicated in neurodegeneration, namely acetylcholinesterase (AChE), butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE), and monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B). While no significant inhibition was detected towards BuChE, daturaolone inhibited AChE (IC50 = 45.06 ± 1.80 µM), even if with lower potency if compared to the positive control donepezil (IC50 = 0.047 ± 0.001 µM). Concerning MAO-B, daturaolone displayed an IC50 value of 28.04 ± 1.68 µM, higher of that of positive control safinamide (IC50 = 0.027 ± 0.001 µM). Molecular docking was used to study the binding to the catalytic sites of the macromolecular targets, while ligand-based studies predicted low-affinity interactions with protein phosphatases, androgen receptor, and β-secretase 1, along with limited drug-likeness.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists elicit diuresis and natriuresis in humans and rodents. However, little is known about their interactions with the bodies hormonal systems that control fluid homeostasis. We performed a single center, open-label, before-and-after study and discovered that liraglutide reduces plasma arginine vasopressin (AVP) levels in healthy humans. By quantitative proteomic and phosphoproteomic investigation of the rat pituitary gland, we detail time- and sex-dependent modifications to synaptic proteins mediated by liraglutide. We developed an in vitro AVP luciferase assay to assess the impact of synaptic protein phosphorylation on AVP secretion. We used this assay to identify synaptic protein phosphosites that influence AVP release and liraglutide-mediated sex differences in AVP release. Investigation of AVP downstream signaling pathways in the kidney revealed posttranslational changes to the crucial AVP-regulated water channel aquaporin 2. Thus, glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist modulation of AVP release may be responsible for cardiovascular and renal changes observed in patients.
Synucleinopathies are a group of neurodegenerative disorders characterized by the accumulation of aggregated α-synuclein (α-syn), including Parkinson's disease, Dementia with Lewy Bodies, and Multiple System Atrophy. These diseases are marked by locomotor and non-motor impairments, as well as mitochondrial dysfunction and the loss of dopaminergic (DA) neurons. We have developed several anti-α-syn single-domain antibodies (sdAbs) and demonstrated the diagnostic imaging potential of two of them and the acute therapeutic benefit of one in clearing α-syn in a mouse model. However, whether these sdAbs can suppress α-syn-mediated neuronal loss and locomotor impairment in vivo remains unclear. We evaluated the therapeutic potential of five anti-α-syn sdAbs to clear pathological α-syn in mouse neuronal culture and then demonstrated their in vivo efficacy in a Drosophila model of synucleinopathy. The sdAbs differed in their efficacy to lower levels of phospho-serine 129 α-syn, prevent loss of DA neurons, alleviate mitochondrial dysfunction, improve motor function, and prolong survival in synucleinopathy flies. The most effective sdAb, 2H1, has not been reported before. It binds strongly to the aggregation prone region of α-syn and robustly improves all these disease parameters. Additionally, that sdAb is associated with α-syn in the fly neurons, as shown through proximity dependent turboID biotinylation assays. The sdAb-turboID also biotinylated α-syn-associated proteins involved in synapse/vesicle trafficking pathways, pinpointing the location of their intracellular interaction. Our findings provide an insight into the therapeutic mechanism of action of these sdAbs and strongly support their clinical development.
Natural products from fungi are a significant source for drug discovery. This study investigates six previously uncharacterized metabolites isolated from the poisonous mushroom Tricholoma pardinum using an integrated in silico approach to evaluate their therapeutic potential. Pharmacokinetic (ADMET) profiling predicted varied drug-likeness and toxicity profiles, with several compounds showing potential to cross the blood-brain barrier. Molecular docking and MM-GBSA calculations identified compound 1 as a potent inhibitor of Poly [ADP-ribose] polymerase 1 (PARP1), with a strong binding affinity (XP GScore: -6.756; ΔGbind: -48.75 kcal/mol). This interaction is anchored by a robust network of hydrogen bonds with key residues, including ASP914, CYS908, and THR866. Similarly, compound 6 emerged as a strong binder to Phosphatidylinositol 5-phosphate 4-kinase type-2 gamma (PIP4K2γ) (XP GScore: -7.705; ΔGbind: -45.94 kcal/mol), with its binding stabilized by extensive hydrophobic interactions complemented by a critical hydrogen bond with the residue Methionine 206 (MET206). Subsequent 100 ns molecular dynamics simulations confirmed the high stability of both protein-ligand complexes, validating the persistence of these key interactions. These computational findings highlight the potential of metabolites from T. pardinum as novel scaffolds for developing anticancer agents targeting PARP1 and PIP4K2γ, warranting further experimental validation.
The spinal cord critically regulates startle responses through local excitatory and inhibitory circuits. The glycine receptor alpha 1 subunit (GlyRα1) mediates the primary inhibitory neurotransmission in the spinal cord, however, the contribution of spinal glycinergic inhibition to startle regulation remains poorly understood. Here, we show that GlyRα1 controls startle behavior in a cell-type- and region-specific manner. GlyRα1 deletion in ChAT-positive spinal neurons markedly enhances startle responses and c-Fos activation in spinal motor neurons as well as excitatory interneurons. In contrast, GlyRα1 deletion in inhibitory interneurons suppresses startle behavior while selectively increasing spinal c-Fos activation in inhibitory but not excitatory interneurons. Consistent with these findings, intraspinal AAV-Cre induced deletion of GlyRα1 without cell-type specificity increases startle responses, whereas deletion from spinal CamK2α-positive cells, which predominantly overlap with glycinergic inhibitory interneurons, attenuates startle reflexes. By contrast, deletion of GlyRα1 from brainstem RtTg CamK2α-positive cells, which are predominantly glutamatergic, enhances startle responses. GlyRα1 deficiency in glycinergic neurons reduces the amplitude of puff-applied glycine-elicited currents without affecting synaptic inhibitory and excitatory neurotransmission in the spinal cord. Together, these findings identify spinal GlyRα1 subunits as a cell-type specific regulator of startle behavior and reveal opposing contributions of GlyRα1 signaling in spinal inhibitory interneurons and motor/excitatory output pathways.© The author(s).
Perioperative neurocognitive disorders (POCD) are a class of common complications of central nervous system after general anesthesia and surgery. Sevoflurane (SEV) is a widely used inhalation anesthetic in clinical practice, but the mechanism of SEV-induced neuronal damage has not yet been fully elucidated. This study aimed to investigate the mechanism of SEV-induced neuronal pyroptosis involving upstream stimulatory factor 1 (USF1) and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1). Single-cell RNA sequencing screening on GSE267933 dataset was performed. POCD animal model was established using C57BL/6J mice, and open field test and Y maze test were conducted to assess cognitive function. Cell model was constructed using human cortical neuronal cell line (CP-H120) and mouse hippocampal neuron cells (HT22). Western blot was employed for protein detection. Cell viability was examined using cell counting kit-8. Pyroptosis was evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, lactate dehydrogenase release assay, flow cytometry, and immunofluorescence staining. The binding between USF1 and PARP1 promoter was analyzed by chromatin immunoprecipitation assay, DNA pull-down assay and dual-luciferase reporter assay. Single-cell sequencing analysis on GSE267933 dataset identified that PARP1 was highly expressed in hippocampal neurons after SEV exposure (P < 0.05). PARP1 knockdown improved cognitive dysfunction and pyroptosis in SEV-exposed POCD mice (P < 0.05). PARP1 downregulation inhibited SEV-induced pyroptosis in human neuronal cells (P < 0.05). USF1 served as a transcription factor to promote PARP1 expression (P < 0.05). Silencing USF1 suppressed SEV-induced pyroptosis in human neuronal cells by downregulating PARP1 (P < 0.05). These findings indicated that USF1-mediated upregulation of PARP1 promoted SEV-induced neuronal pyroptosis, suggesting that USF1/PARP1 axis may function as a key regulator in SEV-triggered neuronal damage in POCD.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
As a non-coding RNA (lncRNA), the RNA component of mitochondrial RNA processing endoribonuclease (RMRP) is implicated in ribosome biogenesis. In recent years, its role in the neurodegenerative system has been reported; however, the molecular mechanism underlying RMRP-mediated neuroprotective effects remains elusive. In the present study, we identified that RMRP expression is regulated by the RNA-binding protein RBM3. The overexpression of RBM3 significantly upregulated RMRP transcription in SH-SY5Y neural cells, whereas RBM3 knockdown led to a marked reduction in RMRP expression. Furthermore, RNA Immunoprecipitation (RIP) assays confirmed the potential interaction between RMRP and RBM3. We then investigated the functional significance of RMRP regulated by RBM3 in Parkinson's disease (PD) cell models. Exogenous overexpression of RMRP strongly attenuated cytotoxicity induced by neurotoxins rotenone (ROT) and MPP+ in SH-SY5Y cells, as evidenced by decreased levels of cleaved poly ADP-ribose polymerase 1 (PARP1) and enhanced cell viability. Given that RBM3 exerts robust neuroprotective effects by accelerating global protein synthesis (GPS), we hypothesized that RMRP is a key mediator of RBM3-conferred neuroprotection. Consistent with this hypothesis, RMRP overexpression enhanced the activity of eukaryotic elongation factor 2 (eEF2), a hallmark of cellular GPS. Its stimulatory effect on GPS was further validated using a puromycin incorporation assay. Collectively, our data reveal that RMRP acts as a novel effector of RBM3 in stimulating cellular GPS and conferring neuroprotective effects in SH-SY5Y cells, providing a new therapeutic target for PD.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Natural products represent a valuable source of anticancer agents, although their mechanisms of action are often incompletely understood. In this study, we evaluated the cytotoxic effects of the ethyl acetate (EA) fraction derived from Schima superba bark. The EA fraction exhibited selective cytotoxicity against HepG2 and MCF-7 cancer cells, with minimal effects on normal HEK293 cells, and induced apoptosis as evidenced by time- and dose-dependent activation of caspase-3. Phytochemical profiling by UPLC-QTOF-MS/MS identified 18 major constituents, predominantly phenylethanoid glycosides and triterpenoids. To gain insight into the underlying mechanism, molecular docking, 200 ns molecular dynamics simulations, and MM-PBSA analyses were performed targeting poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1) and caspase-3. Among the identified compounds, cistanoside D displayed favorable binding affinity toward both targets, but formed a more stable and energetically favorable complex with PARP1 during molecular dynamics simulations, whereas its interaction with caspase-3 was comparatively weak. These findings suggest that cistanoside D may preferentially interact with PARP1, while the observed activation of caspase-3 is likely associated with downstream apoptotic processes rather than direct enzymatic modulation. This study provides an integrated evaluation of the phytochemical composition and anticancer potential of Schima superba bark extract, and identifies cistanoside D as a promising candidate for further investigation. These results contribute to a better understanding of the molecular basis underlying the bioactivity of this medicinal plant and support its potential as a source of anticancer agents.
Talazoparib (TZ) is a potent poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1/2 (PARP1/2) inhibitor that uniquely traps PARP complexes at sites of single-strand DNA damage thereby offering opportunities for targeted radioligand therapy. Radiolabeled halogenated TZ derivatives were synthesized using boronic ester precursors to enable incorporation of diagnostic and therapeutic radionuclides: 18F for PET imaging, 77Br for Auger electron radiotherapy, and 211At for targeted alpha radiotherapy. Copper-mediated radio-halogenation afforded racemic 18F-TZ, 77Br-TZ, and 211At-TZ in sufficient radiochemical yields (4.3 ± 2.6%, n = 33; 29.0 ± 12.0%, n = 4; 3.6 ± 3.8%, n = 9, respectively), ∼99% radiochemical purity and proven stability under formulation conditions. Molecular dynamics simulations of halo-TZ derivatives predicted an inverse relationship between halogen size and PARP1 binding affinity. Indeed, cell uptake of radio-halogenated TZ analogues indicated selective uptake in a panel of cell types that correlated with PARP1 levels but was inversely related to the atomic radii of the halogen series. Despite modest specific activity and specific uptake, 77Br-TZ showed significant cytotoxicity. Further investigation of 18F-TZ with 77Br-TZ as a radiotheranostic pair will be facilitated by the synthetic schemes herein.
To observe the effect of electroacupuncture (EA) at "Hegu" (LI4) and "Quchi" (LI11) on skin inflammatory injury, itching, and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1)-dependent cell death (Parthanatos) in mice with atopic dermatitis (AD) based on the protease-activated receptor 2 (PAR2)/transient receptor potential vanilloid 3 (TRPV3) pathway, and to explore the possible mechanism of EA in the treatment of AD.Thirty-six male BALB/c mice were randomly divided into a normal group, a model group, and an EA group, with 12 mice in each group. The AD model was established by topical application of calcipotriol (MC903) solution. After successful modeling, the EA group received EA at bilateral LI4 and LI11 once daily, 30 min per session, for 7 consecutive days. The scoring atopic dermatitis (SCORAD) index and scratching frequency were recorded before and after intervention in each group. Histopathological morphology of skin tissue was observed by HE staining. Cell apoptosis in skin tissue was detected by TUNEL assay. The protein expressions of PAR2, TRPV3, interleukin (IL)-33, IL-31, IL-13, PARP1, mitochondrial apoptosis-inducing factor 1 (AIFM1), and macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) in skin tissue were measured by Western blot. The mRNA expression levels of PAR2, TRPV3, inflammatory factors (IL-33, IL-31, IL-13), and Parthanatos-related genes (PAR2, TRPV3, PARP1, AIFM1, MIF) in skin tissue were detected by real-time quantitative PCR. The expression of PARP1 in skin tissue was determined by immunofluorescence.Compared with the normal group, the model group showed significantly increased SCORAD score (P<0.01), elevated scratching frequency (P<0.01), higher skin cell apoptosis rate (P<0.01), up-regulated protein and mRNA expressions of PAR2, TRPV3, inflammatory factors (IL-33, IL-31, IL-13), and Parthanatos-related factors PARP1, AIFM1, MIF (P<0.01, P<0.05), as well as enhanced PARP1 fluorescence intensity (P<0.01). Compared with the model group, the EA group exhibited decreased SCORAD score (P<0.01), reduced scratching frequency (P<0.01), lower skin cell apoptosis rate (P<0.01), down-regulated protein and mRNA expressions of PAR2, TRPV3, inflammatory factors (IL-33, IL-31, IL-13), and Parthanatos-related factors PARP1, AIFM1, MIF (P<0.05, P<0.01), and weakened PARP1 fluorescence intensity (P<0.01). HE staining showed severe skin lesions, marked epidermal hyperplasia and massive inflammatory cell infiltration in the model group, whereas the EA group displayed relatively intact epidermal structure, significantly alleviated structural damage, and less inflammatory cell infiltration.EA at LI4 and LI11 can alleviate skin inflammatory injury and itching in AD mice, and its mechanism may be related to down-regulating the PAR2/TRPV3 pathway and inhibiting Parthanatos in skin cells.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301515
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) induces widespread and persistent neuroinflammation, which is increasingly recognized as a key contributor to chronic sequelae including posttraumatic epilepsy (PTE), cognitive deficits, and neuropsychiatric disturbances. However, reliable biomarkers for identifying individuals at risk for these long-term outcomes remain limited. In this study, we evaluated in vivo positron emission tomography (PET) imaging of the 18-kDa translocator protein (TSPO) as a predictive biomarker of epileptogenesis and neurobehavioral dysfunction in a rat model of moderate-severe TBI.Adult rats received lateral fluid percussion injury (n = 61) or sham surgery (n = 14). TSPO PET was performed using [18F]-PBR06 at 1 and 4 weeks postinjury. Long-term behavioral outcomes were assessed at 5-6 months post-TBI, followed by continuous 4-week video-electroencephalographic monitoring during 7th month to identify epileptic rats.TBI rats demonstrated robust and sustained increases in TSPO binding across multiple brain regions at both time points compared with sham animals (p < .001). At 4 weeks postinjury, however, TSPO binding in the cortex, hippocampus, and thalamus was significantly lower in rats that later developed epilepsy (PTE+) than in those that did not (PTE-; p < .05), with receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis showing good predictive performance (area under the curve [AUC] = .76, p < .01). Behavioral testing identified deficits in spatial learning, memory, and open-field activity in TBI rats (p < .05). Data-driven stratification identified behaviorally impaired (TBI-BI+) and unimpaired (TBI-BI-) subgroups, with cortical TSPO moderately distinguishing impaired animals (AUC ≈ .7). Among impaired rats, those with multidomain behavioral deficits (n = 33) showed elevated thalamic TSPO compared to those with a single impairment (p = .032), with ROC analysis confirming discrimination (AUC = .72, p = .018).Our findings support TSPO PET imaging as a promising early biomarker for predicting PTE and neurobehavioral outcomes following TBI.© 2026 The Author(s). Epilepsia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International League Against Epilepsy.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42469559 is a review article
Neuroinflammation is a key factor contributing to cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study aims to investigate the mechanistic associations among neuroinflammation, glymphatic dysfunction, tau pathology, and cognitive decline in AD spectrum.The study included 355 participants from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) and a supportive cohort of 59 individuals from Wuhan Union Hospital (WHUH). Tau pathology was quantified using 18F-AV1451 positron emission tomography (PET). Glymphatic function was estimated through diffusion tensor image analysis along the perivascular space (DTI-ALPS). Neuroinflammation was assessed via plasma glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in two cohorts and translocator protein (TSPO) PET imaging with 18F-DPA-714 in supportive cohort. Correlation analyses and mediation models were employed to evaluate the directional relationships among tau deposition, inflammation, glymphatic function, and cognition.Higher levels of inflammation were significantly associated with lower DTI-ALPS index (β = -0.171, P = 0.046), which in turn was associated with higher tau burden (β = 0.162, P = 0.010). Path analysis revealed significant indirect associations linking neuroinflammation to cognitive performance through glymphatic dysfunction and tau pathology, with total indirect effects of - 0.165 (95% CI, - 0.266 to - 0.105) in ADNI and - 0.143 (95% CI, - 0.386 to - 0.013) in WHUH. These findings support a hypothesized inflammation-glymphatic-tau pathway rather than a definitive causal cascade.Our findings are consistent with a hypothesized inflammation-glymphatic-tau association in which greater neuroinflammation is linked to reduced glymphatic function and higher regional tau burden, particularly in preclinical and prodromal stages.This study obtained ethical approval from the Institutional Review Committee of Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital (ChiCTR-BRC-17011316, date:20170506; ChiCTR1900022526, date:20190415).© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Differentiating myelitis and non-inflammatory myelopathies is crucial for early intervention, but ambiguity in conventional methods exists. Translocator Protein (TSPO) is upregulated in activated microglia and astrocytes, making it an excellent biomarker for neuroinflammation. Applications of TSPO PET have been reported to differentiate brain lesions. However, the utility of TSPO PET-MRI in spinal cord myelopathies has not been thoroughly researched.A retrospective, observational study was conducted on patients with myelopathy who underwent TSPO PET-MRI between 2022 and 2023. Maximum standardized uptake value (SUVmax) levels and clinical and laboratory parameters were obtained from patients who were diagnosed with myelitis and non-inflammatory myelopathies.44 patients diagnosed with myelitis (11 MS, 10 NMOSD, 23 idiopathic) and 5 patients with non-inflammatory myelopathies were included. SUVmax levels differed significantly between inflammatory and non-inflammatory myelopathy groups (P＜0.05). Multiple laboratory parameters showed significant correlations with SUVmax levels. Compared with patients with normal BBB, patients with disrupted BBB (QAlb > 7 × 10-3) demonstrated significantly higher SUVmax levels. In an exploratory ROC analysis, SUVmax yielded a cut-off value of 1.075 for identifying inflammatory myelopathy (65.9% sensitivity, 80% specificity, AUC = 0.77, 95% CI: 0.578-0.963). Given the small control group, these diagnostic performance metrics should be interpreted as preliminary and exploratory.These preliminary findings suggest that spinal cord TSPO PET-MRI may complement MRI and CSF assessment when distinguishing inflammatory from non-inflammatory myelopathies. Validation with larger, adequately powered cohorts is still required before further clinical interpretation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42445351 is a review article
Emerging evidence suggests that peripheral organs, particularly the liver, may influence brain homeostasis and neurodegenerative diseases. This study investigates the differential expression of Parkinson's disease (PD)-related, oxidative stress, and inflammatory genes in the liver and brain of six-week-old male albino Wistar rats (250-300 g) subchronically exposed to rotenone (ROT, 1.3 mg/kg/day, 35 days, b.w.), a pesticide commonly used to model PD. Relative expression levels were measured using quantitative real-time PCR (RT-qPCR) and western blot. Genes involved in mitophagy (Parkin (PARK2), p = 0.0039), oxidative stress response (Parkinson's disease protein (DJ-1), p = 0.0209), lysosomal function (Low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein-1 (LRP1), p = 0.0418; ATPase cation transporting 13a2 (ATP13a2), p = 0.0308), and inflammation (Tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α), p = 0.0171) were found upregulated in the brain of ROT-induced rats as compared to control rats, and were also significantly higher than in the liver (p < 0.05). In contrast, significantly higher phosphatase and tensin homolog-induced kinase 1 (PINK1) expression was found in the liver as compared to the brain (p = 0.0198). Notably, these inter-organ differences and transcriptional shifts were absent in the controls. Moreover, the liver exhibited distinct molecular responses, including significant downregulation of ATP13a2 and SNCA (Encoding alpha-synuclein) and overexpression of NFe2-like basic leucine zipper transcription factor 2 (NFe2l2), compared to control rats (p < 0.05). Nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB), and interferon gamma (IFN-γ) showed no significant changes in either tissue (p > 0.05). These findings demonstrate that distinct molecular alterations in the liver and brain following ROT treatment, including differences in the regulation of genes associated with mitophagy, oxidative stress, proteostasis, and inflammation. Our findings demonstrate tissue-specific molecular associations in the liver and brain within the ROT-induced PD model, providing new insights into the pathophysiology of neurodegeneration and identifying potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets for future studies.© 2026. The Author(s).
ATPase cation transporting 13A2 (ATP13A2) is an endolysosomal P-type ATPase known to be a polyamine transporter, explored mostly in neurons. As endolysosomal functions are also crucial in innate immune cells, we aimed to explore the potential role of ATP13A2 in the human immunocellular compartment. We found that human plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs), the professional type I IFN-producing immune cells, especially have a prominent enrichment of ATP13A2 expression in endolysosomal compartments. ATP13A2 knockdown in human pDCs interferes with cytokine induction in response to TLR9/7 activation in response to bona fide ligands. ATP13A2 plays this crucial role in TLR9/7 activation in human pDCs by regulating endolysosomal pH and mitochondrial reactive oxygen generation. This (to our knowledge) hitherto unknown regulatory mechanism in pDCs involving ATP13A2 opens up a new avenue of research, given the crucial role of pDC-derived type I IFNs in protective immunity against infections as well as in the immunopathogenesis of myriad contexts of autoreactive inflammation.Copyright © 2024 by The American Association of Immunologists, Inc.
Ventricular septal defect (VSD) is the most common congenital heart malformation in children. This study aimed to investigate potential pathogenic genes associated with Tibetan familial VSD.Whole genomic DNA was extracted from eight Tibetan children with VSD and their healthy parents (a total of 16 individuals). Whole-exome sequencing was performed using the Illumina HiSeq platform. After filtration, detection, and annotation, single nucleotide variations and insertion-deletion markers were examined. Comparative evaluations using the Sorting Intolerant from Tolerant, PolyPhen V2, Mutation Taster, and Combined Annotation Dependent Depletion databases were conducted to predict harmful mutant genes associated with the etiology of Tibetan familial VSD.A total of six missense mutations in genetic disease-causing genes associated with the development of Tibetan familial VSD were identified: activin A receptor type II-like 1 (c.652 C > T: p.R218 W), ATPase cation transporting 13A2 (c.1363 C > T: p.R455 W), endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 1 (c.481 G > A: p.G161 R), MRI1 (c.629 G > A: p.R210Q), tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated protein 1 (c.224 G > A: p.R75H), and FBN2 (c.2260 G > A: p.G754S). The Human Gene Mutation Database confirmed activin A receptor type II-like 1, MRI1, and tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated protein 1 as pathogenic mutations, while FBN2 was classified as a probable pathogenic mutation.This novel study directly screens genetic variations associated with Tibetan familial VSD using whole-exome sequencing, providing new insights into the pathogenesis of VSD.Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Inc.
To explore the expression and role of ATPase cation transporting 13A2 (ATP13A2) on hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) progression and prognosis.The level of ATP13A2 in 63 HCC tissues was evaluated by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, Western blot, and immunohistochemistry. Then, the prognostic value of ATP13A2 for HCC was explored. GO and KEGG pathway enrichments were performed to predict ATP13A2-mediated biological functions. Besides, the correlations between ATP13A2 and key regulators involved in cell cycle and metastasis, the status of different tumor-infiltrating immune cells was investigated.ATP13A2 was frequently upregulated in 63 HCC tissues relatively to matched non-tumor tissues. The level of ATP13A2 significantly correlated with tumor stage and tumor grade. HCC patients with higher levels of ATP13A2 had a worse prognosis. Moreover, multivariate survival analysis supported ATP13A2 to be an independent prognostic factor for HCC. GO and KEGG analysis indicated a potential role of ATP13A2 on regulating cell cycle, metastasis, and immune infiltrates. Especially, the level of ATP13A2 was positively correlated with CCNB1, CCND3, CDC25B, CDK4, Vimentin, MMP9, MMP14, and LMNB2. A positive correlation was noticed between ATP13A2 and infiltration levels of B cells, CD8+ T cells, CD4+ T cells, macrophages, neutrophils, dendritic cells, monocytes, M2 macrophages, and exhausted T cells in HCC.Upregulation of ATP13A2 is a common feature as well as an independent prognostic biomarker for HCC. ATP13A2 are associated with key regulators involved in cell cycle, metastasis, and immune infiltrates in HCC, and may act as a potential immunotherapy target for HCC.© 2021. The Society for Surgery of the Alimentary Tract.
ATP13A2 holds promise as biomarker for Parkinsońs disease (PD). No study has examined how salivary ATP13A2 is related to motor features in idiopathic PD.Salivary ATP13A2 concentration was evaluated with ELISA, and statistical correlations of ATP13A2 level with PD parameters were examined. The dose intensity of the dopaminergic medication regimen was expressed as levodopa equivalent daily dose (LEDD). ATP13A2 expression on histological sections of submandibular glands was evaluated using immunohistochemistry.Salivary ATP13A2 was undetectable in many subjects (28 % of patients, 43.7 % of controls). However, all the patients with motor complications (n = 28) showed quantifiable levels of ATP13A2, that positively correlated with MDS-UPDRS (total, parts III and IV), and LEDD (p < 0.05). Dyskinetic patients showed the highest LEDD values (p < 0.05). The histological study revealed: a) ATP13A2 staining was very intense in duct cells and vascular endothelium, and b) two patterns of ATP13A2-positive deposits are observed: rounded inclusions of 10-20 µm in diameter located in the interlobular tissue of the patients, and amorphous aggregates inside duct lumen in controls and patients.The sensitivity of the ELISA assay was a major limitation for quantifying ATP13A2. However, salivary ATP13A2 was detected in all patients with motor complications, where a direct relationship among ATP13A2 concentration, levodopa equivalent daily dose, and MDS-UPDRS was found. Therefore, salivary ATP13A2 might be a reliable index of therapy-induced motor complications. ATP13A2 was expressed by rounded inclusions in the submandibulary gland of patients. This is the first description of ATP13A2-positive inclusions outside the nervous system.© 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 34729301 is a review article
The ATPase cation transporting 13A2 protein (ATP13A2), which maintains the homeostasis of mitochondria and lysosomes, plays a significant role in human neurodegenerative diseases and cancer. Through constructing a lamprey proteome database, employing multiple sequence alignment and phylogenetic analysis, 5 ATP13A2 proteins from Petromyzon marinus (Pm-ATP13A2) were identified based on the evolutionary perspective. The motif and domain analysis showed that the ATP13A2 protein was conserved. The multiple phosphorylation sites and transmembrane structures highlighted the characteristics of ATP13A2 as the P-ATPase-V cation transporting protein. Based on the information provided by the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases, this study was conducted as a preliminary investigation of the carcinogenic effects of the ATP13A2 gene in a variety of tumors. The ATP13A2 was strongly expressed in most tumors, except in two types of nervous system tumors glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) and brain lower grade glioma (LGG). Moreover, the expression of ATP13A2 was strongly correlated with the prognosis of tumor patients. The high expression of ATP13A2 was obviously related to the poor prognosis of LGG. The poor prognosis of LGG patients may affect the ATP13A2 expression through the immune cells and radiotherapy. Also, cancer-related fibroblast infiltration was observed. All in all, this work offers more insights into the molecular evolution of the ATP13A2 protein and facilitates the understanding of the carcinogenic effects of the ATP13A2 in different tumors. Our discussion also promotes the study into the successful evolution of the vertebrate brain and the mechanism of clinical brain-related diseases.
