Genetic tumour heterogeneity, driven by clonal evolution, contributes to therapy resistance in many cancers. Most salivary gland cancers, including adenoid cystic carcinoma (AdCC) and myoepithelial carcinoma (MECA), lack effective systemic treatments, highlighting the need to characterise their evolutionary profiles. In this autopsy study, we reconstructed genetic heterogeneity and clonal evolution in two patients with metastatic AdCC and one patient with metastatic MECA. Radiology-guided autopsy was performed between 12 and 56 h after out-of-hospital death. One hundred forty-nine tumour samples were snap-frozen, of which 17 (4-7 per patient) were selected for whole-genome sequencing. Phylogenetic reconstruction was performed using CONIPHER. Autopsy revealed multiple metastatic sites not visible on antemortem or postmortem imaging. MYB-NFIB gene fusions were present across all tumour sites from the two AdCC patients, while a LIFR-PLAG1 fusion was detected in all samples from the MECA patient. All three cases showed extensive genetic tumour heterogeneity and branched phylogenies, suggestive of parallel evolution. Histologic growth patterns were consistent across metastatic sites. Overall, this study demonstrated marked genetic heterogeneity and branched evolution in these AdCC and MECA patients.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Oncology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
IDH-wildtype glioblastoma exhibits substantial biological heterogeneity despite current molecular classification. Although dynamic malignant cell states have been described, molecular features that position tumors along these states remain incompletely defined. We investigated whether ZIC3 expression identifies a transcriptional state associated with clinical outcome in IDH-wildtype glioblastoma.RNA sequencing and clinical data from The Cancer Genome Atlas glioblastoma cohort were analyzed after restriction to genomically confirmed IDH-wildtype tumors (n = 167). Survival analyses were performed in patients with available survival data (n = 161) using Cox proportional hazards regression and Kaplan-Meier analysis. Associations with MGMT promoter methylation, tumor microenvironment scores, differential expression, gene set enrichment, and single-cell RNA sequencing data were evaluated to characterize transcriptional programs associated with ZIC3 expression.Higher ZIC3 expression was associated with longer overall and progression-free survival and remained associated with a more favorable survival profile after adjustment for age, sex, radiotherapy, and temozolomide treatment. ZIC3 expression was not associated with MGMT promoter methylation or with ESTIMATE-derived stromal, immune, or composite scores. In the single-cell dataset, ZIC3-positive cells were more frequent in malignant tumor cells than in non-malignant cells. ZIC3-high tumors showed enrichment of neural lineage-associated and blood-brain barrier-related programs, whereas ZIC3-low tumors showed enrichment of hypoxia-related, glycolytic, and metabolic stress programs. Ordered heatmap analysis showed that lineage-associated genes and hypoxia-related genes varied inversely across tumors ordered by ZIC3 expression.ZIC3 expression appears to mark a developmental transcriptional axis in IDH-wildtype glioblastoma that links neural lineage-associated programs to hypoxia-adaptive tumor states.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558716 is a review article
Septic cardiomyopathy is characterized by acute cardiac dysfunction, while sustained inflammatory and extracellular matrix remodeling may contribute to subsequent myocardial fibrosis and impaired cardiac recovery. A disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs 4 (ADAMTS4) has been linked to fibrotic remodelling, but its role in septic cardiac injury remains unclear. Here, we show that Adamts4 is upregulated in LPS-induced septic mouse hearts and is predominantly induced in cardiac fibroblasts. Using three fibroblast-lineage Adamts4 knockout models, we demonstrate that Adamts4 deletion attenuates LPS-induced cardiac dysfunction, inflammation and fibrosis, whereas Tcf21-lineage fibroblast Adamts4 overexpression aggravates these changes. Mechanistically, ADAMTS4 interacts with thrombospondin-1 (TSP1) and promotes its catalytic activity-dependent proteolytic processing. The 236-246 amino acid region of TSP1 is required for fragment generation and fibroblast activation. TSP1 processing further activates TGF-β/Smad and NF-κB signalling, promoting myofibroblast activation and extracellular matrix deposition. These findings identify ADAMTS4 as a fibroblast-centred driver of septic cardiac fibrosis and suggest that targeting the ADAMTS4-TSP1 axis may offer therapeutic potential for septic cardiomyopathy. KEY POINTS: ADAMTS4 is induced predominantly in cardiac fibroblasts after LPS challenge Fibroblast-lineage Adamts4 deletion attenuates LPS-induced cardiac dysfunction and fibrosis The TSP1 236-246 aa region is required for efficient ADAMTS4-dependent processing ADAMTS4-dependent TSP1 processing activates TGF-β/Smad and NF-κB signalling in fibroblasts.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical and Translational Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Shanghai Institute of Clinical Bioinformatics.
Avian limbs have evolved precise digit lengths and shapes that are optimized for flight and locomotion, but the transcriptional regulators that regulate this architecture remain poorly defined. Although anteriorly biased Zic3 expression constrains digit outgrowth, whether other zinc finger of the cerebellum (Zic) factors-particularly Zic5-shape avian distal limb morphology remains unknown. Here, we define the spatiotemporal dynamics and developmental function of Zic5 expression in the chicken limb and evaluate its role in shaping avian limb and digit morphogenesis. Whole-mount in situ hybridization reveals that Zic5 shows a dynamic, stage-dependent shift from broad distal mesenchymal expression to digit-base-restricted domains in the chicken limb, consistent with a role in constraining digit elongation to shape fore-hind limb morphology. Overexpression of Zic5 in the chicken limb buds resulted in shortened digits and impaired limb ossification. These phenotypes were accompanied with altered expression of skeletal marker genes, including Sox9, Runx2, Col9a1, Col9a3, Ptch2 and Hhip, suggesting that elevated Zic5 expression is sufficient to impair skeletal maturation during limb development. Together, our results indicate that elevated Zic5 expression can impair limb skeletal growth and maturation, with effects on distal digit development that result in digit shortening or loss and suggest that Zic5 may contribute to the regulation of digit architecture during avian morphological diversification.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In vitro maturation (IVM) of germinal vesicle oocytes may broaden assisted reproductive technologies; however, developmental competence remains limited by the lack of standardized follicular somatic support. We generated an endogenous FOXL2-P2A-tdTomato reporter human induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC) line using CRISPR/Cas9 knock-in and reporter-guided transcription factor (TF) programming to produce fetal granulosa-like cells (FGLCs). A flow cytometric TF screen identified TCF21, WT1-KTS, and NR1H4 as the strongest FOXL2 inducers, and combinatorial optimization showed that removing TOX3/ETV5 and adding NR2F2 substantially increased the FOXL2-positive fraction. Bulk RNA-seq, principal component analysis, and TF activity inference positioned the induced cells close to early-gestational human fetal granulosa cell profiles. In a mouse IVM, in vitro fertilization (IVF), blastocyst culture, and embryo transfer pipeline, FGLC supplementation did not change nuclear maturation rates but improved downstream development, most clearly increasing offspring production from cumulus-oocyte complexes. A comprehensive safety assessment of F0 offspring derived from FGLC-treated oocytes revealed a normal sex ratio, postnatal growth, gross anatomy, gonadal histology, and modified SHIRPA neurobehavioral profiles. Next-generation natural mating and germ cell assays demonstrated preserved fertility, normal IVF outcomes, and normal sperm parameters in the F1 generation. These results establish a scalable strategy for generating fetal granulosa-like supporting cells from hiPSCs and provide an effective and multi-generational safety framework for oocyte-contact IVM interventions.
Salivary adenoid cystic carcinoma (SACC) is an immunologically cold malignancy with limited response to current immunotherapies. Integrated transcriptomic profiling of peripheral blood, primary tumors, lung metastases, and a two-donor single-cell dataset revealed compartment-specific expression signatures and, through computational inference, systemic immune dysregulation marked by hematopoietic suppression, T-cell exhaustion, compensatory myelopoiesis, and an immature B-cell expansion. To explore the transcriptional basis of this peripheral immune aberration, blood-derived RNA-seq was interrogated, identifying only 32 unique genes meeting |log2FC| > 1 and q < 0.05 among 34,999 transcripts; qPCR confirmed concordant upregulation of IL33 and CCL14, providing directional rather than confirmatory support, suggesting peripheral immune molecular aberrations that still require validation through broader differential gene expression validation. Complementing this transcriptomic signature, detection of MYB-NFIB fusion transcripts matching tumor tissue in one patient's blood suggested that tumor-derived signals may access the circulation, although cohort validation remains necessary. Extending these peripheral observations to tissue compartments, we applied expression stratification, correlation networks, ligand-receptor mapping, and a virtual gain-loss model to computationally predict regulatory associations involving IL17RB/OLIG1/NOTCH1 in primary tumors and a CD24/IL17RB/MYB/MYBL2/CXCL13/CXCR5 module in lung metastases. At the single-cell level, cluster 10 emerged as a cell-cycle-high tumor population with transcriptional overlap with proliferating immune progenitors, providing a potential cellular basis for tumor cell entry into the circulation. Collectively, these computational inferences generate testable hypotheses for multicompartment immune dysregulation in SACC, positioning IL17RB as a candidate molecule that warrants prospective validation in SACC-specific preclinical models.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510656 is a review article
Nuclear factor I (NFI) transcription factors regulate neural stem and progenitor differentiation during brain development. While NFIA, NFIB, and NFIX are linked to neurodevelopmental disorders, the role of NFIC (MIM: 600729) in human disease remains unclear. This study aimed to determine whether NFIC contributes to a neurodevelopmental syndrome, define its phenotype, and assess dosage-dependent effects. We established the first cohort of 11 individuals, including NFIC deletions and single nucleotide variants. Genotype-phenotype correlations, including critical region mapping, were performed. Murine data and bioinformatics were integrated to explore underlying pathomechanisms. We report 11 individuals with NFIC variants, including four with de novo SNVs and seven with deletions encompassing the gene, of whom nine have not been previously reported. A core phenotype of syndromic intellectual disability and macrocephaly was delineated. Opposing cranial phenotypes relative to proximal 19p13.3 duplication cases support a dosage-sensitive effect and a mirror-syndrome model. NFIC-related disorder represents a novel neurodevelopmental syndrome characterized by intellectual disability and macrocephaly, highlighting the importance of NFIC dosage supporting a mirror-syndrome model.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Appendage degeneration is a notable morphological feature of some teleosts with specialized benthic lifestyles. The half-smooth tongue sole (Cynoglossus semilaevis) undergoes severe pectoral fin regression during metamorphosis. However, the molecular basis underlying rapid pectoral fin degeneration remains unclear. Here, we performed time-series transcriptome sequencing on pectoral fins at pre-metamorphosis, metamorphosis peak and post-metamorphosis to characterize the molecular changes associated with pectoral fin degeneration. Transcriptional dynamics and functional enrichment showed that no significant enrichment of classical apoptosis-related transcriptional pathways was detected during pectoral fin degeneration. Instead, sustained downregulation of twist1b, identified as a transcriptomic candidate, together with significant upregulation of ssh1, coupled with enrichment of lysosome and ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) pathways, suggested enhanced tissue remodeling during pectoral fin degeneration. Temporal expression clustering revealed heterochronic misalignment in the developmental gene expression: upstream initiator tbx5 was upregulated at early metamorphosis, while downstream maintenance signal fgf10 decreased synchronously. Distal patterning gene hoxd12a exhibited premature expression and rapid decay, losing sustained late-phase expression. Moreover, transient elevation of gli3 during metamorphosis may contribute to restricted distal fin growth. We conclude that pectoral fin degeneration in C. semilaevis is associated with heterochronic disruption of developmental signaling and extensive tissue remodeling. This study provides transcriptomic insights into pectoral fin degeneration in tongue soles and establishes a basis for future functional studies of appendage reduction in teleosts.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567458 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566840 is a review article
Pelvic organ prolapse (POP) is a prevalent condition characterized by weakened pelvic floor tissues, significantly impacting women's quality of life. Current treatments, including synthetic meshes and native tissue repair, face challenges of high recurrence rates and complications. This study developed a novel tissue-engineered strategy utilizing a decellularized human amniotic membrane (HAAM) scaffold seeded with autologous adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells (ADSCs) and vaginal wall fibroblasts (HVFs) to construct a bioactive pelvic ligament equivalent. We first validated the successful preparation of HAAM with preserved extracellular matrix integrity and characterized the phenotypic markers of ADSCs and HVFs. In a rat abdominal wall defect model, the HAAM+ADSCs+HVFs composite demonstrated superior tissue regeneration and integration, reduced fibrosis, and effective modulation of the host immune microenvironment -evidenced by enhanced repair and decreased infiltration of pro-inflammatory cells -compared to all control groups (including HAAM alone and single-cell groups). Transcriptomic analysis revealed that the composite treatment promoted extracellular matrix organization and collagen synthesis while suppressing matrix degradation (MMP2/MMP9) and inflammatory pathways. Most importantly, mechanistic studies identified TGFB2 as the key paracrine mediator through which ADSCs exert their effects: TGFB2 inhibition abolished ADSCs-induced improvements in HVFs proliferation, migration, and anti-apoptosis, while its overexpression replicated these benefits. Western blot confirmed that TGFB2 coordinately upregulates COL1A1/COL3A1 and downregulates MMP2/MMP9 to restore ECM homeostasis. These comprehensive findings demonstrate that the HAAM-based ADSCs-HVFs composite promotes functional tissue regeneration via TGFB2-mediated mechanisms, offering a safe, effective, and regenerative therapeutic strategy with strong translational potential for POP.Copyright © 2026 Dong, Zhang, Duan and Xia.
To investigate the relationship between serum retinol-binding protein 4 (RBP4) and cystatin C (CysC) levels and cardiac function as well as ventricular remodeling in patients with myocardial infarction.A case control study was conducted. A total of 185 patients with first diagnosed acute myocardial infarction (AMI) who were treated at Harrison International Peace Hospital between December 2022 and January 2025 were enrolled as the research subjects, and 150 healthy subjects who underwent physical examination at the same hospital during the same period were enrolled as the controls. Fasting peripheral venous blood samples were collected on the second day after admission for AMI patients and on the morning of physical examination for healthy controls. Serum levels of RBP4 and CysC were measured by an automatic biochemical analyzer. Cardiac function indexes [left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), left ventricular end-diastolic diameter (LVEDD)] and ventricular remodeling indexes [left ventricular end-systolic volume (LVESV), left ventricular end-systolic posterior wall thickness (PWS), left ventricular remodeling index (LVRI), left ventricular mass (LVM)] were detected by color Doppler ultrasound. Pearson correlation analysis was used to analyze the correlations of serum RBP4 and CysC levels with cardiac impairment and ventricular remodeling in AMI patients. Receiver operator characteristic curve (ROC curve) was plotted to evaluate the predictive value of serum RBP4, CysC alone and their combination for cardiac impairment and ventricular remodeling in AMI patients.No significant differences in gender and age were observed between the two groups (both P>0.05). Serum levels of RBP4 and CysC, as well as LVEDD, LVESV, PWS and LVM were significantly higher in the AMI group than those in the healthy control group [RBP4 (mg/L): 55.37±8.31 vs. 43.12±6.47, CysC (mg/L): 1.58±0.49 vs. 0.72±0.11, LVEDD (mm): 48.02±7.17 vs. 37.19±5.58, LVESV (mL): 67.42±10.11 vs. 48.61±7.29, PWS (mm): 13.52±1.03 vs. 9.36±1.10, LVM (g): 244.96±36.74 vs. 167.35±25.10, all P<0.05]. In contrast, LVEF and LVRI were significantly lower in the AMI group than those in the healthy control group [LVEF: 0.421±0.063 vs. 0.654±0.098, LVRI (g/mL): 0.85±0.13 vs. 1.24±0.19, both P<0.05]. Among 185 AMI patients, 64 were classified as Killip class I, 58 as class II, 44 as class III, and 19 as class IV. With the increase of Killip classification, serum RBP4 and CysC levels, LVEDD, LVESV, PWS and LVM were gradually elevated, while LVEF and LVRI were gradually decreased (all P<0.05). Pearson correlation analysis showed that serum RBP4 and CysC were negatively correlated with LVEF (r values were -0.453 and -0.424, respectively) and LVRI (r values were -0.479 and -0.443, respectively, all P<0.05), and positively correlated with LVEDD (r values werre 0.202 and 0.297, respectively), LVESV (r values were 0.248 and 0.267, respectively), PWS (r values were 0.285 and 0.272, respectively) and LVM (r values were 0.291 and 0.228, respectively, all P<0.05). ROC curve analysis indicated that serum RBP4 and CysC alone had moderate predictive value for cardiac impairment and ventricular remodeling in AMI patients, and the combined detection achieved higher predictive efficacy. The area under the ROC curve (AUC) with 95% confidence interval (95%CI) was 0.924 (0.863-0.984) and 0.913 (0.849-0.976), with sensitivity of 89.91% and 90.14%, and specificity of 88.92% and 88.68%, respectively.Serum RBP4 and CysC levels are significantly elevated in AMI patients and are closely related to the severity of cardiac impairment (Killip classification, LVEF, LVEDD) and ventricular remodeling (LVESV, PWS, LVM, LVRI). Combined detection of serum RBP4 and CysC shows high predictive value for cardiac impairment and ventricular remodeling in AMI patients.
Acral melanoma (AM) exhibits significant intratumoral heterogeneity, but its tumor microenvironment (TME) and immune regulation remain unclear. This study aims to dissect TME heterogeneity and establish a prognostic model based on key cell subpopulations.We collected AM single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and bulk RNA-seq data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Unsupervised clustering, CellChat, and Scissor analysis were performed to characterize cellular heterogeneity, cell-cell communication, and prognosis-related cell subpopulations. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to assess the prognostic value of key genes, which were further validated by multiplex immunohistochemistry (mIHC).In AM, Mel_C2, C7, and C9 with high SEMA6A and KIT expression were strongly linked to poor prognosis. We further identified a senescent fibroblast subpopulation (sCAF_CDKN2A) characterized by high fibroblast senescence signature (FSS) scores. Integrating Scissor analysis of fibroblast subtypes with bulk prognostic data, we identified COL3A1, VCAN, and KIT as prognosis-associated genes upregulated in poor-outcome-related fibroblast subsets. Cell-cell communication analysis revealed that sCAF_CDKN2A engages in an immunosuppressive network, interacting with regulatory T cells (Tregs) via MIF signaling and receiving signals from exhausted CD8+ T cells through PPIA-BSG interactions. Using transcription factor expression patterns from these fibroblast subtypes, we constructed a prognostic model that effectively stratified patients into distinct risk groups with significant differences in overall survival (OS). mIHC confirmed significantly higher protein levels of SEMA6A and COL3A1 in tumor tissues compared to matched normal tissues.We established a novel prognostic model for AM and identified sCAF_CDKN2A as an immunosuppressive senescent fibroblast subpopulation driving poor prognosis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Hyaluronic acid (HA) hydrogels generally exhibit poor resistance to moist heat sterilization. Modification with a single metal element (ME) fails to synergistically optimize multiple functional properties. The destructive impact of terminal sterilization on hydrogel network integrity has often been overlooked in the biomedical hydrogel field, which may hinder clinical translation. To address these challenges, this study developed a ternary ME co-crosslinked HA hydrogel incorporating Mg2 +/Zn2+/Fe3+. The formulation was optimized using Box-Behnken response surface methodology. Moist heat sterilization at 121℃ for 12 min, corresponding to a sterility assurance level (SAL) ≤ 10-6, was incorporated into the formulation optimization and performance evaluation process. Rheological measurements confirmed that the ME-crosslinked hydrogels retained suitable mechanical properties for wound dressing application after sterilization. In vivo experiments demonstrated that the M-ME@Gel achieved rapid hemostasis, with a hemostatic time of 28.0 ± 5.86 s and blood loss of 57.93 ± 11.71 mg. It also accelerated wound closure, resulting in near-complete healing in mice by day 11 and a wound-closure rate of 97.72 ± 1.93% in rabbits by day 14. This study provides a strategy for enhancing the moist heat sterilization resistance of biomedical hydrogels, and offers a reference for the translational development of wound dressing.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Ovarian endometrioma (OEM) is a common manifestation of endometriosis and is associated with both local lesions and systemic alterations. While immune dysregulation and metabolic disturbances have been individually reported in endometriosis, whether these changes are coordinated at the circulating molecular level in OEM remains unclear.We performed an exploratory integrative analysis of serum proteomic and untargeted metabolomic profiles in women with OEM and healthy controls. Differential analyses were conducted for each omics layer, followed by cross-omics integration to assess pathway-level relationships between molecular alterations. Selected platelet-associated proteins were further evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in a small independent cohort.Serum proteomics profiling showed predominant alterations in immune-related and extracellular processes, whereas metabolomic analysis revealed changes mainly involving lipid metabolism, amino acid metabolism, and redox-related pathways. Cross-omics integration suggested pathway-level correspondence between the two omics layers, particularly in carbohydrate metabolism, nucleotide metabolism, lipid remodeling, and antioxidant defense. Among platelet-associated proteins, pro-platelet basic protein (PPBP/CXCL7) showed higher levels in OEM in both proteomic profiling and ELISA validation, while MMRN1 and PDGFA showed concordant but non-significant increases in the ELISA cohort.These findings suggest that OEM is associated with concurrent immune-related and metabolic alterations detectable in the circulation. Integrative multi-omics analysis provides exploratory evidence for pathway-level correspondence between proteomic and metabolomic alterations in OEM and provides limited independent support for a platelet-associated circulating signal, with PPBP showing the most consistent validation.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Hu, Xiao, Ma, Zhu, Gao, Zhang and Jin.
To investigate the effectiveness of spectacle lenses with highly aspherical lenslets (HAL) and orthokeratology (ortho-k) for myopia control and the change in the interocular axial length (AL) difference in binocular anisomyopic children over 1-year in a real-world setting.Retrospective analysis of 74 bilateral anisomyopes (8-14 years; 39 HAL, 35 ortho-k). Axial elongation (AE) and interocular AL difference were compared in both groups; spherical equivalent refraction (SER), spherical refraction (SR), refractive astigmatism (RA) and corneal astigmatism (CA) were evaluated for the HAL group.AE in the more myopic eye (MME) of the HAL group was significantly greater than the ortho-k group (0.24 ± 0.17 vs. 0.15 ± 0.15 mm, p = 0.007). However, the opposite finding was observed in the less myopic eye (LME) (0.20 ± 0.14 vs. 0.29 ± 0.23 mm, p = 0.01). The interocular AL difference was reduced in the ortho-k group (0.69 ± 0.41 vs. 0.54 ± 0.32 mm, p = 0.007), whereas no significant change was found in the HAL group (p = 0.09). AE was associated with baseline SER (β = 0.08, p = 0.008) in the ortho-k group and age (β = -0.04, p = 0.001) in the HAL group. The MME in the HAL group showed larger changes in SER (-0.39 ± 0.31 vs. -0.27 ± 0.30 D) and CA (-0.21 ± 0.29 vs. -0.11 ± 0.25 D) than the LME (both p ≤ 0.03). The change in SER was positively associated with age and baseline SER (β = 0.08; β = 0.07, both p ≤ 0.02) in the HAL group.Ortho-k reduced AE, more so in the MME and reduced the interocular AL asymmetry. HAL slowed AE symmetrically, with greater control in older and less-myopic children.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The College of Optometrists.
Vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) migration is the key event in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis (AS) and plaque instability. Trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO) induces VSMC migration to promote the progression of AS. However, the effects of the N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification on this process remain unclear. Here, TMAO increased total m6A levels in human aortic smooth muscle cells (HASMCs) and decreased fat mass and obesity-associated protein (FTO) and YTH domain-containing family protein 2 (YTHDF2) protein expression. FTO or YTHDF2 overexpression significantly inhibited HASMC migration induced by TMAO. Mechanistically, the COL3A1 gene was shown to be critical for the regulation of HASMC migration by FTO or YTHDF2. Furthermore, methylated RNA immunoprecipitation and RNA stability assays demonstrated that FTO bound to the COL3A1 mRNA and altered its m6A modification, resulting in its decay. In vivo, VSMC-specific FTO or YTHDF2 deletion aggravated AS and plaque instability, whereas adeno-associated virus serotype 9 (AAV9)-mediated VSMC-specific YTHDF2 overexpression or COL3A1 knockdown exerted protective effects on AS and/or plaque instability. Notably, VSMC-specific FTO deletion promoted VSMC migration in atherosclerotic lesions in ApoE-/- AS model mice, whereas VSMC-specific YTHDF2 overexpression had the opposite effect. Overall, the in vitro and in vivo evidence highlights the critical role of the FTO/YTHDF2/COL3A1 axis in VSMC migration, AS, and plaque instability, suggesting that targeting the FTO/YTHDF2/COL3A1 axis in VSMCs may be a novel and promising therapeutic strategy for the treatment and prevention of AS and plaque instability.© 2026. Science China Press.
Pain control in severe burns remains challenging due to physiological factors affecting drug metabolism and efficacy. This study characterizes the most frequent combinations of pain medication, dosages of opioids and non-opioids over time, and their correlation with pain management in adults.A single-center retrospective analysis of patients ≥ 18 years of age admitted to University of North Carolina Jaycee Burn Center with ≥ 20% total body surface area (TBSA) burn injury between 2020 and 2024 was performed. Records were abstracted for demographics, prescription pain medication management, and numerical rating scale (NRS) pain scores. Generalized linear and mixed models assessed average daily pain scores and morphine milligram equivalents (MME), adjusted for age, TBSA burn, and inhalation injury.140 patients were included (age: 32 ± 7 years; 72% male; TBSA burn 37 ± 19% [range: 20-98%]; length of stay: 42 ± 54 days; 19% inhalation injury). 88% survived and most injuries were flame-related (76%). Opioid-only regimens accounted for 7% of prescribing medications, non-opioid-only 15%, and multimodal regimens 78%. Acetaminophen and hydromorphone were most frequently administered (17%), followed by acetaminophen, hydromorphone, and oxycodone (14%) and acetaminophen, fentanyl, and oxycodone (13%). Patients receiving multimodal or opioid-only regimens demonstrated lower and more stable pain trajectories than those receiving non-opioids alone. Hydromorphone use increased with burn severity and was highest in patients with > 80% TBSA. Although opioid requirements declined over time, patients with burns > 40% TBSA had significantly higher MME at day 25 compared with moderate burns (451 ± 980 vs 237 ± 388; p = 0.023).Multimodal analgesia predominated and was associated with improved pain stability. Persistent opioid requirements in larger burns highlight the impact of burn-related metabolic alterations and support development of individualized analgesic strategies to optimize dosing and reduce prolonged opioid exposure.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd and International Society of Burns Injuries. All rights reserved.
Critical-sized bone defect repair remains a formidable challenge because conventional approaches cannot recapitulate the temporally coordinated cascade of endochondral ossification. Here, we report a biomimetic, temporally programmed cytokine delivery scaffold that integrates spatially defined nanofiber architecture with sequential biochemical activation to orchestrate orderly tissue regeneration. The scaffold comprises electrospun polycaprolactone nanofibers with an inner uniaxially aligned layer and an outer random layer. Interleukin-8 (IL-8), strategically loaded into the aligned fibers to reinstate early-stage chemotactic cues markedly diminished in adult bone defect repair, is released in a sustained manner during the initial 14 days, enhancing mesenchymal stem cell recruitment and initiating chondrogenic differentiation. At later stages, bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) encapsulated between the fiber layers is released on demand via near-infrared (NIR) stimulation, enabling temporally precise promotion of osteogenesis. In vivo, the staged delivery system led to a 72.1% greater bone volume fraction at 12 weeks compared to controls. IL-8-driven early cartilage formation and BMP-2-induced late-stage bone regeneration were consistent with upregulated expression of chondrogenic markers S100 (3.63-fold) and COL2 (1.57-fold) at 4 weeks and subsequently, osteogenic markers OCN (1.68-fold) and OPN (1.47-fold) at 12 weeks. By reinstating early molecular signals absent in conventional healing and coupling them with on-demand osteogenic stimulation, this programmable delivery strategy offers a potent and adaptable approach for regenerating critical-sized bone defects and potentially other complex tissues requiring staged repair.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
The current evidence suggests that the formation of pulp stones (PS) has a genetic background. Therefore, the present study aimed to evaluate the association between PS in orthodontically treated patients and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the mineralization-related genes (bone morphogenetic protein 2 [BMP2], BMP4, SMAD6, and runt-related transcription factor 2 [RUNX2]).This cross-sectional study analyzed genomic DNA and panoramic radiographs from patients with a history of orthodontic treatment. Panoramic radiographs were analyzed and PS were identified as well- or poorly defined radiopaque opacities located within the pulp chamber of the maxillary and mandibular first and second permanent molars. Genomic DNA obtained from all participants was analyzed. The genetic analysis focused on seven specific SNPs located in genes involved in mineralization pathways: BMP2 (rs235768 and rs1005464), BMP4 (rs17563), SMAD6 (rs3934908 and rs2119261), and RUNX2 (rs59983488 and rs1200425). Comparisons of allele and genotype (codominant, dominant, and recessive models) distributions between patients with and without PS were performed using the chi-square test. Logistic regression analyses were performed to control for potential confounders such as age and sex for the SNPs located in the RUNX2 gene. One-way ANOVA was applied to evaluate differences in the mean number of teeth with PS across genotypes. The significance level was established at α = 0.05.The final sample comprised 235 patients: 120 presented with PS, and 115 served as controls. For the SNP rs59983488 in RUNX2, a statistical association was observed for genotype distribution in the dominant model (p = 0.033) and for allele distribution (p = 0.022). For the SNP rs1200425 in RUNX2, a statistical association was observed for genotype distribution in the recessive model (p = 0.046; odds ratio [OR] = 2.0, confidence interval [CI] 95% 1.0-3.8). No statistically significant association was observed in the logistic regression analysis.Our study suggests that RUNX2 could have a small effect on the susceptibility of orthodontic patients to develop PS.Copyright © 2026 Daniel Hemming et al. International Journal of Dentistry published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Osteoporosis and osteosarcoma impose a substantial and rising global health burden, yet their transcriptomic landscapes have not been systematically compared. We performed a multiomics characterization integrating bulk transcriptomics, coexpression network analysis, immune deconvolution, single-cell RNA sequencing, and diagnostic classifier construction.Bulk transcriptomic profiling was performed using GSE56815 (circulating blood monocytes, n = 80; 40 low-BMD/40 high-BMD) and the TARGET-OS database (n = 88 osteosarcoma tumor samples; DNA methylation n = 86; copy number n = 81). Differential expression was assessed by Welch's t-test with Benjamini-Hochberg correction. Coexpression modules were identified by hierarchical clustering of the Top 2000 most variable probes with dynamic tree cutting. A logistic regression classifier was constructed from the Top 20 differentially expressed probes using fivefold-stratified cross-validation. Single-cell RNA sequencing of an osteosarcoma tumor specimen (GEO accession GSM9030790) was processed with SVD-based dimensionality reduction and K-means clustering (k = 8; n = 3658 cells passing QC). In vitro validation was conducted by qRT-PCR in MC3T3-E1 osteoblast precursor cells and RAW264.7 osteoclast precursor cells.Differential expression analysis identified 4347 probe sets at nominal p < 0.05, of which 604 remained significant after Benjamini-Hochberg correction. Eight coexpression modules were identified; module M0 showed a weak positive association with low-BMD status (r = 0.184), which did not reach statistical significance. Six hub genes-SP7/Osterix, RUNX2, BMP2, WNT5A, DKK1, and SOST-were examined by qRT-PCR: SP7, RUNX2, BMP2, and WNT5A showed significant downregulation (p < 0.01), whereas DKK1 showed significant upregulation (p < 0.01) and SOST showed a nonsignificant trend toward upregulation under osteoporosis-simulating conditions. The diagnostic classifier achieved a moderate AUC of 0.693 (fivefold CV range: 0.48-0.91), with the lower bound falling below the random classifier baseline (AUC = 0.5), indicating limited discriminative capacity in some data partitions. scRNA-seq resolved eight transcriptionally distinct cell clusters in the osteosarcoma specimen (3658 cells passing QC).This integrative multiomics study provides a comprehensive transcriptomic comparison of osteoporosis and osteosarcoma, identifies BMD-associated coexpression modules with experimentally validated hub genes, and establishes a reusable analytical framework for biomarker discovery in metabolic and malignant bone disease. However, the weak module-trait correlations, subthreshold classifier performance in some cross-validation folds, and the use of circulating blood monocytes to study bone-specific gene expression warrant cautious interpretation of the findings.Copyright © 2026 Dongming Fu et al. International Journal of Genomics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Segmental bone defects (SBD), frequently resulting from high-energy trauma like military combat injuries and major accidents, represent a significant clinical challenge because of the loss of a large bone segment and associated soft-tissue injury. These injuries often occur in military settings, where blast and ballistic trauma cause complex injuries requiring advanced reconstructive strategies. Similar injuries also occur in the civilian population in car accidents, falls, and workplace injuries. Existing therapies (autografts, allografts, and biomaterials) have limitations, including donor site morbidity and graft rejection, highlighting the need for novel bone regenerative approaches. Human placental tissue-derived xenografts (connective tissue matrix [CTM]), rich in structural proteins and growth factors, are under investigation for enhancing bone repair in severe musculoskeletal injuries. This study investigates the efficacy of placental tissue xenografts in a murine SBD model.A murine SBD model with a 2 mm defect in the femoral diaphysis of male C57BL/6J mice was used. Mice with SBD were divided into 5 experimental groups: saline control, bone morphogenic protein (BMP-2), and 3 different formulations of CTM (CTM Paste, CTM Membrane, and CTM Membrane+Paste). Treatments were delivered at the defect site at the time of surgery and mice were euthanized 13 weeks postsurgery. Bone healing and pain behaviors were assessed including radiographic scoring, microcomputed tomography (µCT), biomechanical torsion testing, weightbearing, locomotion, and spontaneous nociceptive behaviors. Statistical analyses included one-way or two-way ANOVA and unpaired Student's t-tests.BMP-2-treated groups showed significantly larger callus formation, however, lower bone volume/total volume (BV/TV) % compared to saline control was observed. In contrast, the CTM Membrane+Paste group exhibited significantly higher BV/TV%. Biomechanical tests revealed enhanced ultimate torque in BMP-2 and CTM Membrane+Paste groups versus saline controls. All treatment groups of SBD mice exhibited sustained pain behaviors after fracture, which did not return to baseline levels even when bone healing was complete.The CTM Membrane+Paste treatment group exhibited improved bone healing parameters in a murine model of SBD. Specifically, BV/TV and some biomechanical properties were improved. Notably, CTM did not increase pain behaviors. Further studies are needed to optimize graft effects and assess therapeutic value for clinical translation. Overall, the results support continued investigation, including potential combination therapies and trials in larger animal models.© The Association of Military Surgeons of the United States 2026.
Preeclampsia (PE) is a gestational hypertension disorder emerging after 20 weeks of pregnancy, complicating 5-8% of pregnancies and representing a leading cause of maternal-fetal morbidity and mortality. Despite its clinical significance, the etiology and pathogenesis of PE remain obscure. Sorting nexin 9 (SNX9), a key regulator of intracellular trafficking and endomembrane dynamics, has been poorly explored in reproductive physiology. This study investigates the role of SNX9 in PE, demonstrating significant downregulation of SNX9 in decidual tissues from preeclamptic patients. In vitro decidualization models showed SNX9 expression correlated with decidualization progression, as evidenced by upregulation of decidual markers (IGFBP1, PRL), while SNX9 knockdown impaired decidualization. Transwell assays revealed that aberrant SNX9 expression restricted trophoblast invasion into endometrial stromal cells. In pregnant mice, SNX9 expression in decidual tissues positively correlated with decidualization regulators (Wnt4, Bmp2) and markers (Prl8a2, Dtprp). Consistent expression patterns were observed in pseudopregnant mice after artificial decidualization induction, excluding embryonic influences. Collectively, these findings establish SNX9 as essential for normal decidualization, with dysregulated SNX9 potentially contributing to PE pathogenesis. This study uncovers a novel link between endomembrane dynamics and PE, providing insights into its molecular mechanisms.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Reproduction and Fertility. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Distraction osteogenesis (DO) is a surgical technique used to repair skeletal defects by promoting bone and soft tissue regeneration. However, prolonged use of external fixators often causes complications such as infections and joint contractures. Neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) enhances osteoblast differentiation via bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) and Akt signaling and may also modulate the Wnt/β-catenin pathway. In this study, we investigated the role of NT-3 in bone regeneration during DO. A DO model was established in 9-week-old male ICR mice, in which tibiae were osteotomized and stabilized with external fixators under anesthesia. After a 5-day latency period, distraction was performed at 0.2 mm every 12 hours for 8 days. RNA was extracted at defined time points post-osteotomy for quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) analysis, and NT-3 was administered post-distraction. Bone regeneration was evaluated by radiographic, histological, and biomechanical analyses. The effects of NT-3 and Dickkopf-1 were further examined in ST2 bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells. NT-3 significantly enhanced bone formation, increased bone mineral density within the DO gap, and improved the mechanical stiffness of regenerated bone. Histological examination revealed earlier bone continuity and greater callus formation in the NT-3 group. Gene expression analysis demonstrated upregulation of Wnt/β-catenin pathway components, including Wnt10b, β-catenin, and low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 5 (LRP5). In ST2 cells, NT3 increased the expression of LRP5, LRP6, β-catenin, and Runx2, while cotreatment with Dickkopf1 abolished these effects. These findings suggest that NT-3 promotes bone regeneration during DO by activating the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway, highlighting its therapeutic potential to improve DO outcomes.
Kidney fibrosis is the pathologic hallmark of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and is driven by fibroblast-to-myofibroblast transformation (FMT), excessive extracellular matrix accumulation, and persistent activation of transforming growth factor-β (TGFβ) signaling. Although TGFβ is a central mediator of fibrosis, its pleiotropic physiological functions have limited the development of direct anti-fibrotic therapies, highlighting the need to identify context-specific regulators of this pathway. Matrix Gla Protein (MGP) is a vitamin K-dependent extracellular protein best known for inhibiting vascular calcification; however, its role in kidney fibrosis remains unknown. Here, we demonstrate that MGP expression is markedly upregulated in fibroblasts from fibrotic kidneys in mouse models of chronic kidney injury and in human CKD samples. Using inducible global and fibroblast-specific Mgp knockout mice, we show that Mgp deficiency attenuates renal fibrosis, suppresses fibroblast activation, and preserves kidney function following folic acid nephropathy and unilateral ureteral obstruction. Mechanistically, MGP promotes FMT and amplifies TGFβ receptor/Smad3 signaling, whereas genetic or molecular inhibition of MGP blunts TGFβ-driven fibroblast activation both in vivo and in vitro. We further identify phosphorylation and γ-carboxylation as essential post-translational modifications required for the profibrotic activity of MGP. In addition, MGP interacts with bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2), reduces BMP-2 protein abundance, and counteracts BMP-2-mediated suppression of TGFβ signaling, thereby enhancing profibrotic responses. Collectively, these findings identify MGP as a previously unrecognized regulator of TGFβ-dependent fibroblast activation and kidney fibrosis, supporting MGP as a potential fibroblast-associated target for future strategies aimed at limiting CKD progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
Bone remodeling requires precise coordination between osteoblast-mediated bone formation and osteoclast-driven resorption. However, directly targetable and therapeutically actionable mediators that can coordinately modulate both processes during regeneration remain relatively limited. Here, we identify immunoglobulin superfamily member 10 (IGSF10) as a dual-function modulator of bone remodeling. Igsf10-deficient mice exhibit reduced bone mass, elevated osteoclast activity, and impaired osteogenesis. Recombinant IGSF10 protein restores osteogenic capacity and suppresses osteoclastogenesis in knockout cells, while exerting pro-osteogenic and anti-resorptive effects in wild-type mesenchymal and monocyte-derived cultures. Mechanistically, IGSF10 activates a noncanonical EGFR-STAT1 signaling pathway, distinct from BMP2-Smad signaling. Co-immunoprecipitation and molecular docking confirm IGSF10-EGFR interaction, and blockade of EGFR abrogates IGSF10-induced osteogenesis and its inhibitory effects on osteoclastogenesis. In vivo, IGSF10 promotes bone regeneration in both calvarial and periodontal defect models and exhibits synergy with subtherapeutic BMP2. These findings position IGSF10 as a previously unrecognized dual-acting regulator that coordinates bone formation and resorption in a context-dependent manner, with potential therapeutic value for craniofacial and skeletal regeneration.© 2026. The Author(s).
Ganoderic acid A (GAA), a natural triterpenoid derived from the fungal species Ganoderma lucidum which is known for its medicinal properties, is well recognized for its anti-inflammatory, anti-aging, kidney-protective, and hepatoprotective properties. However, its role in osteoporotic fracture (OF) healing remains unclear.This study aims to explore the pharmacological effects of GAA on OF healing and to clarify its underlying mechanisms.An ovariectomized femoral fracture model was treated with GAA or estradiol benzoate. Callus formation, mineralization and bone mineral density (BMD) were assessed by micro-computed tomography, radiographic scoring and DXA. Mechanical properties were evaluated by three-point bending tests. Histological analyses and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for serum bone formation and resorption markers were performed. RNA sequencing with GO, KEGG and GSEA analyses was used to explore molecular mechanisms. In vitro, MC3T3-E1 cells were used to assess osteogenic differentiation under GAA, estrogen receptor (ER) antagonist (ICI 182780) or selective ERα antagonist (Methyl-piperidino-pyrazole dihydrochloride, MPP) treatment. Biophysical interaction assays and molecular simulations were employed to characterize GAA-ERα interactions.GAA enhanced early callus mineralization, bone volume fraction, callus volume and trabecular number, and increased radiographic union, bone mineral density and flexural rigidity in OF mice. Histological analysis showed increased soft callus and mineralized bone with elevated bone formation and resorption markers. Transcriptomic analyses indicated that GAA modulated hormone-related pathways, identifying the estrogen signaling pathway as a key target. In vitro, GAA promoted alkaline phosphatase activity, mineral deposition and expressions of phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1/2 (p-ERK1/2), Runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) and bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP2), all of which were abrogated by ICI 182780 and MPP. Notably, molecular interaction studies demonstrated direct and stable binding of GAA to ERα.GAA promotes osteogenic differentiation and accelerates OF healing via ERα.The work offers a conceptual advance by identifying a fungal-derived small molecule that functions as an ERα ligand to promote fracture repair, supporting its potential as a therapeutic candidate for OF.© 2026 The Authors.
Nutritional strategies to reduce dietary protein without impairing growth are essential in modern poultry production, as inadequate supply disrupts bone integrity, intestinal function, and nutrient utilization. The present study aimed to investigate the effects of using different levels of branched-chain amino acids (BCAA) in low crude protein (CP) diets on performance, skeletal development, intestinal morphology, and expression of genes related to bone metabolism, tight junction proteins, and amino acid transporter in broiler chickens. A total of 480 one-day-old male and female broiler chicks of the Ross 308 strain were used in a completely randomized design with 4 treatments and 6 replications. The experimental diets included a standard protein diet (NCP), a diet with 10% less protein than the standard (LCP), an LCP diet with 10% more BCAA than the requirement (LCP+10BCAA), and an LCP diet with 20% more BCAA than the requirement (LCP+20BCAA). Supplementation with BCAA at 10 and 20% levels improved body weight gain compared to the LCP treatment (P=0.03). The inclusion of 20% more BCAA than the requirements of the Ross strain in LCP diets increased tibial weight, strength, ash, and calcium content (P<0.05). The muscularis layer thickness was markedly greater in both BCAA-supplemented groups compared to NCP and LCP (P=0.001). However, villus height and villus surface area in broilers of the LCP + 20BCAA group were significantly higher than those of birds in the NCP, LCP, and LCP + 10BCAA groups (P<0.05). The mRNA expression of RUNX-2, BGLAP, and BMP-2 genes was significantly increased in both LCP + 10BCAA and LCP + 20BCAA groups compared with LCP and NCP (P<0.05). CLDN-1, ZO-1 and MUC-2 expression was significantly upregulated in BCAA-supplemented groups compared with NCP and LCP (P<0.05). SLC3A1 expression was significantly decreased in the LCP group compared to other groups (P=0.001). These findings highlight BCAA supplementation as a promising nutritional strategy to mitigate the adverse effects of protein restriction, thereby supporting broiler growth through coordinated improvements in skeletal health, intestinal structure, and nutrient utilization at the molecular level.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Tumor immune barriers (TIBs) are spatially organized stromal-immune niches that restrict lymphocyte entry. To explain persistent immune-checkpoint blockade (ICB) resistance in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC), we mapped TIBs and defined a peritumoral variant built from POSTN+ cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) interlaced with APOE+ tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs). This niche excluded CD8+ T cells from tumor cores, and was enriched in poor-prognosis, ICB-refractory patients. Spatial transcriptomics and single-cell profiling showed TIB regions enriched for extracellular-matrix remodeling, immunosuppressive ligand-receptor circuits, and metabolic reprogramming. Mechanistically, tumor-derived TGF-β1 activated CAFs via SMAD signaling, inducing POSTN and recruiting APOE+TAMs through integrin and chemokine axes. TAMs secreted TGF-β1 and VEGFA, amplifying stromal programs and sustaining exclusion. Blocking POSTN reprogrammed macrophages, reduced matrix-mediated suppression, and restored CD8+ infiltration. In vivo, POSTN inhibition combined with ICB boosted antitumor immunity, reduced tumor burden, and reversed immunosuppressive infiltration, nominating POSTN-directed strategies to potentiate ICB.
Angiogenesis plays a significant role in the progression of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). The RNA-binding protein IGF2BP3 is associated with fibrosis and angiogenesis, but its role in IPF angiogenesis remain unclear. Additionally, Tianlongjie (TL) has been confirmed to inhibit IPF progression, but the role of IGF2BP3 in this process also needs to be elucidated. A bleomycin (BLM)-induced pulmonary fibrosis rat model was established via intratracheal instillation of BLM, and an angiogenesis cell model was constructed by treating HPMVECs with VEGF165. HE staining was used to detect lung tissue injury. Masson staining, HYP content measurement, Western blot, and Immunohistochemistry assessed to evaluate fibrosis and angiogenesis progression. EdU staining was employed to detect cell proliferation. RIP-qPCR and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed to examine the interaction between IGF2BP3 and HIF-1α. IGF2BP3 was abnormally highly expressed in pulmonary fibrosis. IGF2BP3 knockdown reduced the expression of HYP, COL-I, COL-III, α-SMA, CD31, CD34, and VEGFA in pulmonary fibrosis rat lung tissues, increased E-cadherin expression, and inhibited pulmonary fibrosis progression and microvascular formation in rats. In vitro, IGF2BP3 knockdown suppressed cell proliferation, migration and vascular endothelial cell angiogenesis. Mechanistically, IGF2BP3 may promote HIF-1α stability through m6A modification, and HIF-1α overexpression attenuated the inhibitory effect of IGF2BP3 knockdown on angiogenesis. Furthermore, TL treatment was associated with reduced fibrosis and lower IGF2BP3/HIF-1α expression. In conclusion, IGF2BP3 can promote pulmonary fibrosis-related angiogenesis by stabilizing HIF-1α expression, and TL inhibits IGF2BP3 and HIF-1α expression, angiogenesis and fibrosis progression in pulmonary fibrosis rats.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Hypoxia is a defining feature of the tumor microenvironment and a key driver of malignant progression through transcriptional reprogramming of metabolic, angiogenic, and survival pathways. In this study, hypoxia-induced molecular responses were investigated in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HepG2) and breast adenocarcinoma (MCF-7) cells using cobalt(II) chloride (CoCl2) as a hypoxia mimetic. Cell viability profiling was performed to determine the optimal experimental concentration, followed by quantitative PCR analysis of hypoxia-related genes and miRNA-gene interaction network analysis. Cell viability profiling identified 100 µM CoCl2 as the optimal condition for downstream analyses. Quantitative PCR revealed robust induction of HIF-1α in both cell lines, indicating activation of hypoxic signaling. However, downstream responses differed markedly between cell types. MCF-7 cells exhibited significant upregulation of SLC2A1 and increased VEGFA and NFKB1 expression, consistent with activation of glycolytic and pro-angiogenic pathways. In contrast, HepG2 cells showed limited downstream transcriptional engagement despite elevated HIF1A expression. Furthermore, miRNA-gene interaction analysis revealed a dense regulatory network in MCF-7 cells, whereas HepG2 cells displayed a more restricted, VEGFA-centered miRNA profile. These findings demonstrate that chemical hypoxia induces cell-type-specific transcriptional and post-transcriptional responses in breast and liver cancer cells. The results suggest that miRNA-mediated regulation may contribute to differential tumor adaptation to hypoxic stress and highlight the importance of cellular context in hypoxia-associated signaling pathways.
Distal necrosis remains a common postoperative complication of perforator flaps, largely due to insufficient perfusion and inadequate angiogenesis in ischemic flap tissue. Transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) has been implicated in vascular regulation through calcium-dependent signaling pathways; however, whether pharmacological blockade of TRPV1 affects angiogenesis in perforator flaps remains unclear. In this study, capsazepine was used to pharmacologically block TRPV1 in a rat perforator flap model. The results showed that capsazepine treatment significantly reduced flap survival compared with vehicle treatment (64.5 ± 1.2 % vs. 79.0 ± 1.7 %) and impaired angiogenesis, as indicated by reduced vascular density and decreased expression of VEGF-A, eNOS, and MMP2. Capsazepine also reduced the phosphorylation of CaMKII, CaMKKβ, and AMPK, together with decreased Beclin1 expression, a reduced LC3-II/I ratio, and induced pro-apoptotic changes, as evidenced by increased Bax and cleaved caspase-3 expression and decreased Bcl-2 expression. Notably, pharmacological enhancement of autophagy with rapamycin reduced Bax expression and increased MMP2 expression. Collectively, these findings indicate that capsazepine-mediated TRPV1 blockade impairs perforator flap survival and angiogenesis, at least in part, through reduced CaMKII/CaMKKβ/AMPK activation and attenuation of autophagy. The rapamycin rescue findings position autophagy as an important functional intermediary between TRPV1-associated signaling and the regulation of apoptosis and angiogenesis in perforator flaps.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Lung cancer remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, highlighting the urgent need for effective and selective therapeutic agents. In this study, novel phenylalanine and tryptophan-derived hydrazone hybrids (9a-h and 10a-h) against lung cancer were designed, synthesized and characterized via analytic and spectral methods (FT-IR, 1H NMR, 13C NMR APT, and LC-MS/HR-MS). Cytotoxic activities of synthesized compounds were evaluated against human non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) (A549 and PC9) cells and human healthy lung epithelial BEAS-2B cells. Among the hydrazone hybrids, phenylalanine derivative compound 9d exhibited the most potent and selective cytotoxic effect against NSCLC cells, with IC50 values of 15.60 μM for A549 and 22.49 μM for PC9, and high selectivity indices (SI = 76.92 and 53.36, respectively). Mechanistic studies revealed that these compounds induce apoptosis in A549 cells, with a concomitant decrease in VEGF-A levels and downregulation of VEGFR-1 and 2 expression; this indicates a direct modulation of the tumor-autonomous VEGF signaling axis. Additionally, the compounds significantly activated caspase-3/7, 8, and 9 enzymes, confirming the triggering of both intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic pathways. Furthermore, intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation and mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) depolarization were distinctly induced by compounds 10d and 10g, suggesting an additional mitochondrial stress-mediated mechanism of action within this series. Molecular docking simulations were performed to evaluate binding affinity within the VEGFR-2 active site. In vitro and in silico results identified compound 9d as a promising lead structure for further optimization of selective lung cancer therapeutics. Future studies were targeted at further optimizing drug-like properties and exploring downstream signaling kinetics.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a valuable non-human primate model organism with a long history of use in biomedical research, including investigating diseases with an immune component. However, prior to this effort, there has been a lack of sufficiently validated tools to quantify inflammatory markers in the common marmoset using a multiplex approach. We provide a cross-species reactivity validation of a human-specific multiplex analysis strategy that allows for the assessment of 20 distinct inflammatory analytes in a small volume of plasma isolated from common marmoset blood. We used this novel approach to perform an assessment of the impact of sex as a biological variable on a subset of these inflammatory analytes. We found that endogenous plasma levels of the following analytes are not significantly different between female and male marmosets: CRP, ICAM-1, VCAM-1, IL-13, IL-8, MIP-1β, IFN-g, IL-4, VEGF-A, FLT-1, and bFGF. These findings demonstrate the utility of our validated method for quantifying marmoset inflammatory markers.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Diffuse Gastric Cancer (DGC) is an aggressive subtype with a poor prognosis and a lack of specific biomarkers, representing a critical unmet need in oncology. This study aimed to elucidate the key molecular drivers of DGC by integrating RNA-seq data with a multi-faceted bioinformatics approach.We analyzed RNA-seq data from young-onset DGC and normal tissues (GSE113255, GSE122401). Machine learning (ML) feature selection (ReliefF algorithm) was used to prioritize genes, followed by protein-protein interaction network analysis to identify hub genes. Their roles were further investigated through Gene Ontology, KEGG pathway analysis, tumor microenvironment immune infiltration, miRNA-regulatory network analysis, transcription factor prediction, and computational drug repurposing analyses.Our ML‑driven approach identified seven hub genes central to DGC pathogenesis including CCL5, CXCR4, MMP9, FOXP3, IL18, TNFSF11, and TNFSF13B. Among these, three prioritized core hub genes (CXCR4, MMP9, and TNFSF13B) were selected based on statistically significant overexpression and complementary functional roles. Specifically, CXCR4 showed a Fold Change of 3.12 (Log2FC = 1.64, FDR = 0.01), MMP9 exhibited the highest magnitude of upregulation (Fold Change = 16.58, Log2FC = 4.05), and TNFSF13B demonstrated the most statistically significant differential expression (Fold Change = 2.32, Log2FC = 1.21, FDR < 0.000001). High CXCR4 expression was identified as a potential prognostic indicator associated with poorer overall survival in the TCGA‑STAD cohort (HR = 1.5, p = 0.0072). We delineated a core regulatory circuitry where NF‑κB (NFKB1/RELA) masterfully regulates the hub gene network. Drug repurposing analysis nominated several FDA‑approved agents, including the VEGF‑A inhibitor Bevacizumab, which indirectly suppresses CXCR4 and MMP9.This pilot study establishes a robust integrative framework that synergizes ML with network biology. It nominates CXCR4 and TNFSF13B as candidate therapeutic targets and highlights the potential of ML‑based feature selection for discovering biologically relevant, context‑dependent prognostic indicators in DGC. However, we emphasize that these findings are exploratory and hypothesis‑generating, requiring independent validation through experimental studies and larger cohorts before any clinical translation.Copyright: © 2026 Azni et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
In acute myeloid leukemia (AML), therapeutic resistance is intimately linked to vascular microenvironment remodeling; however, the initiating molecular determinants remain elusive. Here, we identified exosomal pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) as a pivotal mediator of this pathogenic process. PKM2 was abundantly present in AML-derived exosomes and transferred to human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), eliciting metabolic reprogramming characterized by enhanced glycolysis and angiogenic activation. Mechanistically, PKM2 knockdown in AML cells substantially attenuated exosome-induced endothelial migration and tube formation, whereas ectopic PKM2 overexpression in endothelial cells potentiated pro-angiogenic phenotypes. In NOD/SCID mouse xenograft, AML-derived exosomes promoted microvascular remodeling and accelerated disease progression, effects that were abrogated by the angiogenesis inhibitor endostatin. This vascular remodeling coincided with diminished cytarabine (Ara-C) sensitivity, indicative of a chemoprotective microenvironment. Consistently, in a systemic AML model, pharmacological PKM2 inhibition disrupted the vascular niche, suppressed angiogenesis, and restored Ara-C chemosensitivity. Clinically, PKM2 expression correlated positively with VEGFA and HIF-1α levels, and exosomes derived from AML patients with elevated PKM2 conferred enhanced tube-forming capacity upon endothelial cells. Collectively, these findings establish exosomal PKM2 as a critical regulator of the chemoprotective vascular niche in AML and underscore its translational potential as a therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection triggers oxidative stress and persistent inflammatory responses, both of which lead to cellular DNA damage while impairing DNA repair. This constitutes a major factor in exacerbating inflammation and subsequently inducing precancerous lesions, with effective interventions still lacking. In our study, we found that bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell-conditioned medium (BMMSC-CM) could alleviate H. pylori-induced DNA damage in gastric mucosal epithelial cells and further corroborated in vivo studies through immunofluorescence staining and flow cytometry. Screening via solid-phase antibody arrays and transcriptome sequencing revealed that BMMSC up-regulated the expression of CTCF in gastric mucosal epithelial cells by secreting the glycoprotein CHI3L1, thereby enhancing Rad51 expression and promoting cellular DNA repair. Meanwhile, untargeted metabolomics and lipidomics further demonstrated that CTCF participated in the DNA repair process through CPT1A-mediated fatty acid oxidation. This study elucidated the role and application value of BMMSC-derived CHI3L1 in treating H. pylori-induced gastric mucosal damage. By exploring the specific mechanism through the regulation of fatty acid oxidation on DNA repair, this study provided new insights and potential therapeutic targets for treating H. pylori infection-related diseases.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Acromelic dysplasias, including acromicric dysplasia (AD) and geleophysic dysplasia type 2 (GD2), are ultrarare disorders caused by FBN1 variants in the transforming growth factor-β-binding protein-like domain 5 (TB5). These conditions are characterized by severe short stature and variable multisystem involvement, but genotype-phenotype correlations and treatment responses remain incompletely defined.To characterize the clinical spectrum, genotype-phenotype correlations, and growth outcomes in a Chinese cohort of patients with FBN1-related AD/GD2.We conducted a retrospective analysis of 14 patients with AD or GD2 from eight unrelated families. Clinical, radiographic, and genetic data were collected. Genotype-phenotype correlations were further explored by integrating data from two previously published cohorts (n = 52). Growth outcomes were evaluated in patients receiving recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) therapy.All patients exhibited severe short stature (mean height-SDS of -5.28 ± 1.13) with brachydactyly and delayed bone age. Multisystem involvement, including skeletal abnormalities, airway and otologic complications, skin thickening, joint limitation, hepatomegaly, and cardiopulmonary disease (50.0%, exclusively on GD2), was common. All the variants were heterozygous missense mutations clustered in the TB5 domain, including two novel de novo variants. Genotype-phenotype preliminary analysis revealed a greater mortality in patients with GD2 than in patients with AD (29.6%(15.9 -48.5%) vs. 4.0%(0.7-19.5%), P = 0.038). Variants with cysteine or aromatic residues substitutions were associated with increased mortality compared with that associated with other substitutions (overall P < 0.001). Eleven patients received growth-promoting therapy. Among the eight patients treated at our center, growth-promoting therapy maintained a growth velocity during the first two years (approximately 6 cm/year) but declined thereafter, with no significant improvement in height-SDS over a mean treatment duration of 3.6 years.FBN1-related AD/GD2 represent multisystem disorders rather than isolated skeletal dysplasias. Variants affecting cysteine or aromatic residues in the TB5 domain maybe associated with worse outcomes. Growth-promoting therapy may contribute to maintaince of growth velocity but catch-up growth was not clearly observed. These findings suggest that molecular stratification may be helpful for risk assessment and clinical decision-making, pending further validation.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Huang, Wang, Lin, Zheng, Xiao, Ma, Guo, Chen and Li.
Background: Hematopoietic stem/progenitor cell (HSPC) transplantation outcomes depend critically on the dose of functional stem cells delivered to patients, yet current ex vivo cell therapy manufacturing processes lack reliable methods to quantify therapeutic hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) after in vitro culture. This gap poses significant clinical risks, as culture-induced changes may alter the cellular composition of therapeutic products. The challenge stems from two key limitations: (i) biological-conventional HSC markers to phenotypically characterize subpopulations such as CD38 become unreliable during culture, and (ii) technical-existing assays cannot distinguish between HSCs and phenotypically similar progenitors in manipulated products.To solve this problem, we compared an ITGA3- and CD49f-based identification strategy that bypasses culture-sensitive markers.Through single-cell analysis of adult mobilized peripheral blood HSPCs cultured under clinical manufacturing conditions, we demonstrate that ITGA3+ cells better maintain stemness signatures (higher AVP/HLF expression) compared to CD49f+.Functional validation through xenotransplantation revealed superior engraftment and multilineage reconstitution with ITGA3+ HSCs.Our findings provide the first validated method to track functional HSCs during clinical manufacturing, addressing a fundamental quality control challenge in the field. This advance enables more accurate dosing for transplants and provides a critical tool for emerging gene-modified HSPC therapies where product characterization is paramount.Copyright © 2026 International Society for Cell & Gene Therapy. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Understanding the molecular mechanisms of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and its psychiatric comorbidities, including bipolar disorder (BD), is pivotal for uncovering pathways that shape neurodevelopmental trajectories and clinical heterogeneity. We aimed to identify ASD-specific gene-expression signatures and disrupted biological processes in prefrontal cortex, contrasting them with those observed in BD.We performed a comparative transcriptomic analysis of RNA-seq datasets from postmortem prefrontal cortex samples of individuals with ASD or BD and controls. Differential expression was assessed with DESeq2, including batch as a covariate in the BD model. Functional interpretation used Gene Ontology over-representation analysis, KEGG Gene Set Enrichment Analysis and gene-concept network visualization.ASD samples showed 45 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), mainly downregulated non-coding RNAs, particularly small nuclear RNAs and small nucleolar RNAs. Enrichment analysis indicated a convergent profile related to RNA processing, spliceosome assembly and spliceosomal activity. In contrast, BD showed 12 candidate DEGs, mostly upregulated protein-coding genes. BD enrichment involved metal ion response and detoxification, amine and peptide hormone responses, vascular regulation and hydrolase activity, with genes associated with neuroinflammation such as SERPINA3 and CHI3L1 contributing to this profile. No shared DEGs or enriched GO Biological Process terms were observed between ASD and BD.These results support transcriptomic divergence in the prefrontal cortex, with ASD characterized by spliceosomal dysregulation, contrasting with metal ion response, vascular regulation and inflammation-associated signals in BD. Our findings provide a transcriptomic framework for future studies investigating disorder-specific molecular mechanisms and candidate signatures in ASD and BD.
Athletes pursuing a professional basketball career are routinely evaluated by sports physicians using laboratory testing, electrocardiography, and exercise stress assessment. However, such screening may not detect certain cardiovascular or connective tissue disorders. This limitation is particularly relevant in basketball, where tall stature is advantageous but may also signal underlying conditions such as cardiomyopathies, which can predispose athletes to life-threatening events during intense physical exertion, including sudden cardiac death. This study aimed to investigate the phenotypic, endocrine, cardiac, and genetic characteristics of adolescent basketball players to identify possible causes of tall stature and associated health risks.We examined 55 youth basketball players (30 females, median age 17 years and height +2.4 standard deviations). Each underwent detailed endocrine and anthropometric examinations, echocardiography, and genetic testing (number of X and Y chromosomes, SHOX gene dosage analysis, and a custom next-generation sequencing panel of 786 genes related to growth).Echocardiographic abnormalities were observed in 4/55 (7%) athletes, while an additional 5/55 (9%) probands displayed echocardiographic findings resembling physiological adaptation to extensive physical activities. Clinically relevant dysmorphic features were identified in 26/55 (47%), and mild dysmorphia was present in 21/55 (38%) participants. No endocrine dysfunctions were detected. One proband (1.8%) was diagnosed with a monogenic cause of tall stature carrying a pathogenic variant in the FBN1 gene, causing Marfan syndrome.Echocardiographic abnormalities were observed in a small proportion of probands, as were monogenic causes of tall stature. However, targeted evaluation, including echocardiography, anthropometry, and genetic testing, should be considered in selected individuals.Copyright © 2026 Gregorova, Plachy, Chaloupecky, Iurchenko, Maliska Maratova, Kodytkova, Matoulek, Lebl, Tomek, Sumnik, Dusatkova and Pruhova.
BACKGROUND Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) and Marfan syndrome (MFS) are genetically determined systemic disorders. Their simultaneous occurrence is exceptionally rare, with only a few cases reported in the literature. CASE REPORT A 13-year-old boy was admitted to a cardiology clinic due to mitral and tricuspid valve prolapse. He was tall, with severe scoliosis and distinctive dysmorphic features typical of MFS. More than 20 cafe-au-lait spots, characteristic of NF1, were present on his skin. The family history included NF1 in his twin brother, mother, maternal uncle, and maternal grandmother. The maternal uncle also exhibited phenotypic features of MFS and died at a young age from a suspected ruptured intracranial aneurysm. Genetic testing in our patient revealed an NF1 mutation, as well as a 16p13.11 microduplication that could explain his developmental delay and speech difficulties. The diagnosis of MFS was based on characteristic dysmorphic features and the presence of aortic root dilation, despite negative findings concerning the fibrillin-1 (FBN1) mutation typically associated with MFS. CONCLUSIONS A thorough assessment of physical features is essential to detect atypical phenotypes and recognize potential coexistence of multiple genetic syndromes. This case highlights the clinical importance of systematic cardiac evaluation, given that cardiac abnormalities typical of MFS may be critical for its recognition. Reporting such an unusual coexistence of NF1 and MFS underscores the need for multidisciplinary care to improve long-term outcomes in patients with overlapping genetic disorders.
Numerous clinical trials have highlighted the translational potential of retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cell transplantation in retinal degeneration (RD). However, an unsolved challenge remains in addressing chronic graft dysfunction, primarily due to poor integration and cell loss. Here, we perform a single-cell transcriptomic comparison between grafted RPE cells and host RPE. Our analysis identifies EGFR expression in donor fetal RPE cells as a significant obstacle to functional integration. Through multimodal imaging and spatial transcriptomics, we demonstrate that EGFR inhibition (EGFRi) facilitates effective engraftment of fetal RPE cell suspension, leading to the functional restoration of the outer blood-retinal barrier, and restrains neurodegeneration in preclinical RD models. This effect is mechanistically linked to graft reepithelialization via the activation of intrinsic CHI3L1-IL13RA2 signaling in EGFRi-treated donor cells. Moreover, EGFRi-induced CHI3L1 secretion contributes to immunosuppression that complements anti-lymphocytic therapy, thereby extending graft survival. Thus, repurposing Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved EGFR inhibitor offers a safe and cost-effective approach to advancing fetal RPE suspension transplantation into clinical practice.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42542196 is a review article
Aqueous humor outflow through the trabecular meshwork (TM) is segmental, demonstrating high flow (HF) and low flow (LF) regions. Here, we investigate transcriptomic differences between flow regions in naïve mouse and non-glaucomatous human TM tissue to better understand intraocular pressure (IOP) regulation.Human eyes (<6 hours postmortem) from two donors were perfused with a fluorescent tracer to identify HF and LF regions and fixed. In parallel, one pair of 8-month-old C57Bl/6J mouse eyes were similarly processed. Sagittal sections from HF and LF regions underwent whole-transcriptome spatial profiling. Differential expression and gene set variation analysis were conducted to identify transcript and pathway-level differences between HF vs. LF TM. Selected targets were validated by immunolabeling.Genes with relevance to TM outflow were identified as significantly differentially expressed in the human dataset, including ADAM metallopeptidase domain 15 (ADAM15), vimentin (VIM), chitinase 3-like 1 (CHI3L1), and several transcription factors (e.g., FOS, JUNB, ESR1). Pathways related to epigenetic modifications were also differentially enriched in human eyes. In both human and mouse eyes, myocilin was significantly upregulated in HF regions, despite greater protein labeling in LF regions of human eyes. In both species, rho-kinase signaling pathways showed increased enrichment in LF regions, while cell stress pathways, and TNF-α signaling were increased in HF TM.HF regions maintain a more active stress response that facilitates greater outflow, whereas LF regions exhibit more matrix accumulation and contractility. This characterization of segmental flow regions can inform future studies to target trabecular outflow and lower IOP.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune inflammatory disorder that afflicts the synovial lining of joints and manifests in reduced range of motion, pain, swelling, and numerous other complications with no effective cure. In recent years, attention has shifted toward eradicating the source of synovial autoimmunity and inflammation, with a key focus on the synovial-draining lymphatics. However, very few in vitro models of the synovial microenvironment have been developed to date, and none yet include the synovial lymphatics. We therefore create a microfluidic chip device that models the synovial-draining lymphatics within the subintimal synovium microenvironment. Functional assays on our synovium-on-chip demonstrate increased lymphatic permeability and decreased drainage under RA inflammation compared to healthy controls, accompanied by increased lymphatic endothelial cell (LEC) junctional disruption and altered LEC phenotype following interaction with fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS). We identify overexpression of chitinase-3 like-protein-1 (CHI3L1) from RA patient-derived synoviocytes as a key target in inducing junctional loosening and lymphatic dysfunction, which is reversed in our microfluidic chip and in vivo mouse models by neutralizing antibody inhibition. Our novel synovium-on-chip model can provide a physiologically accurate representation of lymphatic drainage and activity under disease conditions, informing tissue engineering, drug testing, and high-throughput screening for rheumatoid arthritis.Creative Commons Attribution license.
NK2 homeobox 1 (NKX2-1), a master regulator robustly expressed in lung, thyroid, and forebrain, is indispensable for specifying lung epithelial fate and serves as a definitive marker of lung progenitors. Here, we generated a human induced Pluripotent Stem Cell (iPSC) line harboring a doxycycline (dox)-inducible Cas9 and an NKX2-1-EGFP-puro reporter via CRISPR/Cas9-mediated homology-directed repair. This dual-function line combines inducible genome editing with real-time tracing of early lung progenitors, enabling their prospective isolation and screening for stage-specific maturation regulators. Therefore, this engineered iCas9-NKX2-1 EGFP line is a key resource for dissecting human lung development, modeling pulmonary disease, and advancing regenerative therapies.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
NKX2-1 (thyroid transcription factor 1, TTF-1) is a homeodomain transcription factor that plays critical roles in the development and function of the thyroid, lung and forebrain. Here, we report the crystal structure of the NKX2-1 homeodomain bound to a 19 bp DNA duplex containing two palindromically arranged NK2-recognition motifs, refined to 3.26 Å resolution. The structure reveals two homeodomains bound to a single DNA duplex and demonstrates that the overall fold and DNA-binding interactions are highly conserved relative to those of NKX2-5. Comparison with NKX2-5 further shows that the amino-acid residues that differ between the two homeodomains are located away from the protein-DNA interface, suggesting that functional differences between these transcription factors are unlikely to arise from distinct DNA-recognition mechanisms. These findings provide a structural framework for understanding DNA recognition by NKX2-1 and for interpreting the effects of pathogenic variants within its homeodomain.
To explore the potential biological significance and diagnostic value of ferroptosis-related differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in liver fibrosis (LF).Bioinformatic analysis of a publicly available microarray dataset. Place and Duration of the Study: Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, Affiliated Hangzhou First People's Hospital, West Lake University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, China, from June 2 to July 2, 2024.Gene expression data from GSE139602 and ferroptosis-related genes from the GeneCards database were analysed to identify ferroptosis-related DEGs in LF. Functional enrichment, gene set enrichment, immune infiltration, protein-protein interaction, and ROC analyses were performed to identify key genes and their potential roles in LF.Forty-one DEGs were associated with ferroptosis, and LF were identified. Among these, CEBPA, MYC, SCD, and SREBF1 were highlighted as important genes with significant diagnostic ability, confirmed through the receiver operating characteristic curve. Notably, CEBPA and SCD were implicated in fibrosis progression via their roles in lipid metabolism and oxidative stress modulation, which are essential components of ferroptosis.The bioinformatics analysis identified four key ferroptosis-related genes-CEBPA, MYC, SCD, and SREBF1-as diagnostic biomarkers for LF. This study found the ferroptosis-related pathways as potential therapeutic targets for LF.Biomedicine, Liver fibrosis, Ferroptosis, Differentially expressed genes.
Oral submucous fibrosis (OSF) is a chronic potentially malignant disorder that can progress to oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). Although dysregulated non-coding RNAs have been implicated in oral carcinogenesis, the competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA)-mediated regulatory mechanisms underlying OSF-to-OSCC progression remain poorly understood. This study aimed to identify candidate regulatory molecules and construct a putative lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA network associated with malignant transformation.Publicly available microarray datasets (GSE117973 and GSE125866) were analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes between OSF and OSCC. Differentially expressed transcripts were classified into mRNAs and lncRNAs based on public transcript annotations. Highly correlated lncRNA-mRNA pairs were identified using Pearson correlation analysis and integrated with multiMiR-supported miRNA-mRNA interactions obtained from public databases to construct a putative ceRNA regulatory network. Functional characterization focused on apoptosis, epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), and immune checkpoint-related pathways. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was performed to evaluate diagnostic performance, and selected biomarkers were externally validated using The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) OSCC cohort.Integrated transcriptomic analysis identified several dysregulated mRNAs and lncRNAs associated with OSF-to-OSCC progression. Network analysis highlighted TBC1D3B, RREB1, TEAD3, SREBF1, TMEM41B, FOXK2, and KIAA1958 as prominent hub genes within the putative regulatory network. Functional analyses demonstrated significant associations with apoptosis-, EMT-, and immune checkpoint-related genes, suggesting potential involvement in multiple biological processes contributing to malignant transformation. Several hub genes exhibited strong diagnostic performance, with ROC analysis yielding AUC values ranging from 0.891 to 1.000, indicating excellent discrimination between OSF and OSCC samples. External validation using TCGA further supported the relevance of the identified biomarkers in OSCC.This study provides a comprehensive transcriptomic framework describing putative lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA regulatory interactions associated with OSF progression to OSCC. The identified hub genes and regulatory networks represent candidate biomarkers for early detection and provide a foundation for future mechanistic and experimental validation. As the proposed ceRNA interactions are computationally inferred, further biological validation is required before clinical application.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Molecular small cell lung cancer (SCLC) subtypes (ASCL1, NEUROD1, POU2F3, and inflamed) display distinct immune contextures, but preclinical modeling remains limited. We evaluated peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) humanized mice (hu-mice) as a platform to capture subtype-specific tumor-immune interactions and therapeutic sensitivity to the triplet regimen: AZD1390 (ATM inhibitor), radiotherapy (RT), and durvalumab (aPDL1). SCLC cell lines representing all molecular subtypes were engrafted into hu-mice, and while T cell infiltration varied across subtypes, SCLC-inflamed cell lines exhibited the highest levels of infiltration. Infiltrating CD8+ T cells rapidly acquired exhaustion markers PD1, CD39, and TOX. Although aPDL1 monotherapy achieved tumor control only in the inflamed SBC5 cell line, combination AZD1390 and RT upregulated chemokine expression (CCL5 and CXCL10) and increased surface PDL1 to sensitize previously non-responsive xenografts in vivo. Responding xenografts showed enrichment of CD39+CD103+ tumor-reactive T cells with reduced terminal exhaustion (TCF1-TOX+). Overall, PBMC hu-mice may effectively recapitulate SCLC immune contextures and guide development of combinatorial strategies to overcome aPDL1 resistance.© 2026 The Authors.
Stem cell based approaches are increasingly studied as models for understanding neurodegenerative diseases. Despite progress, a unified mechanistic understanding of human iPSCs to neural commitment remains incomplete, due to variability in methodologies and experimental conditions, highlighting the need for a more standardized mechanistic framework. This study investigates the transcriptional landscape and regulatory mechanisms underlying the differentiation of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) towards neural commitment using three orthogonal methodologies across four scRNA seq datasets. In brief, each dataset was processed through a standard Seurat pipeline followed by identification of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) via the Wilcoxon rank-sum test. The significant transcription factors (TFs) were cross validated against the human TF catalogue and ranked accordingly. We identified 15 TFs up-regulated across datasets, and 54 TFs upregulated in three out of four datasets. Among these, ASCL1 emerged as the top candidate. The downregulation of LIN28A and SOX2 is consistent with silencing of the pluripotency network. The second part of the study involved the construction of a co -expression network through a consensus of the four datasets. The network yielded 24 co-expression modules which prioritised hub transcription factors of neural commitment. Module trait correlations were computed with WGCNA, identifying NCAM1 module as top hub. RTN regulon interference and master regulator analysis was applied as a third analysis method. The intersection resulted in identification of LCOR, MEIS3 and EBF1 as the top intramodular hub genes regulators. Current study offers a comprehensive map of key transcriptional dynamics and regulatory nodes involved in iPSC-to-NSC differentiation. This study offers insights into neural development and identifies prioritised candidates for experimental follow-up.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
BRAF fusions are rare but clinically relevant oncogenic events in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), yet their molecular characteristics and optimal management remain unclear.We retrospectively analyzed 97 patients with NSCLC harboring kinase domain-retaining BRAF fusions, stratified into de novo (N = 43) and acquired (N = 54) groups. Clinical and genomic features were compared across subgroups and comparator driver cohorts.We identified 104 BRAF fusions involving 53 unique partner genes, 29 of which were novel. Common partners included AGK (12.5%), IGR (11.5%), ZC3HAV1 (7.7%), TRIM24 (5.8%), and MKRN1 (5.8%). IGR and DTNB were more commonly observed in de novo cases, whereas AGK-BRAF fusions predominated in acquired cases. Among de novo cases, 65.1% lacked co-occurring drivers. ZNF703 mutations and NRF2 pathway alterations were recurrently enriched in BRAF fusion-only tumors, while CTNNB1 and NKX2-1 mutations were enriched versus ALK-rearranged cases. BRAF fusions co-occurring with other drivers showed enrichment of KMT2C and RTK-RAS pathway mutations, with TP53 mutations enriched compared to RET-rearranged tumors. One patient with TRIM24-BRAF and EGFR exon 19 deletion derived clinical benefit from dual MEK and EGFR inhibition. Acquired BRAF fusions were frequently detected after EGFR-TKI therapy, representing the predominant alteration in 63.0% of cases. Median progression-free survival on prior EGFR-TKIs aligned with clinical trial benchmarks.BRAF fusions in NSCLC are molecularly heterogeneous, with distinct genomic landscapes between de novo and acquired cases. These findings support repeated comprehensive genomic profiling at progression and suggest that pathway-directed combinations, such as MEK plus EGFR inhibition, may offer individualized treatment options for selected patients.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Therapeutic resistance to cytarabine (Ara-C), a cornerstone of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) therapy, remains an unmet clinical need. Here, we identify ACSF2 as a key metabolic determinant of Ara-C resistance. ACSF2 inhibition suppresses Ara-C-resistant AML cell proliferation, restores Ara-C sensitivity in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, ACSF2 inhibition impairs cholesterol esterification. Therefore, the increased cholesterol accumulation on mitochondrial membranes results in mitochondrial dysfunction, elevated mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS), and suppression of pro-survival ERK signaling. Furthermore, we first established SREBF1 as a direct transcriptional activator of ACSF2 in this context. Notably, the SREBF1 inhibitor fatostatin synergizes with Ara-C against resistant AML with downregulation of ACSF2. These findings define a crucial role of ACSF2 in Ara-C resistance and highlight the SREBF1-ACSF2 axis as a promising therapeutic target for relapsed/refractory AML.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
This experiment was conducted to investigate the effects of mulberry leaf powder (MLP) on alleviating fatty liver hemorrhagic syndrome (FLHS) in laying hens. A total of 180 healthy 33-week-old Hy-Line Gray laying hens were randomly assigned to 3 groups, with 6 replicates per group and 10 chickens per replicate, and fed a basal diet (CON), high-energy-low-protein (HELP) diet (FLHS), and HELP + 5% MLP diet (MLP), respectively. The experiment lasted 56 days. Results showed that the HELP diet successfully induced FLHS, characterized by an increased liver index, hepatic steatosis, and oxidative stress (P < 0.05). MLP significantly alleviated FLHS-induced hepatic steatosis, and enhanced antioxidant capacity (superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, total antioxidant capacity, and glutathione) in serum and liver (P < 0.05). Transcriptomic analysis identified 102 differentially expressed genes, whose expression was increased by FLHS but reversed by MLP, including SREBF1, SLC27A4, PLIN2, ACOT13, APOA4, GLRX, and MSRB1, which mainly participate in lipid droplet dynamics and redox homeostasis. qRT-PCR confirmed that upregulated expression of lipogenic genes (such as FASN, ACACA, SCD, and ELOVL6) and the downregulated expression of oxidative stress-responsive genes (SOD1 and GPX1) in the FLHS group were normalized by MLP (P < 0.05), accompanied by increased expression of PPARα, CPT1A, and CD36 (P<0.05). 16S rRNA sequencing revealed that MLP reduced the abundance of Desulfovibrio, Rikenellaceae_RC9_gut_group, Intestinimonas, and Shuttleworthia, and enriched Faecalibacterium and Bifidobacterium in the cecum of FLHS laying hens (P < 0.05). Furthermore, MLP increased acetate, propionate, and butyrate levels, and decreased isobutyrate and isovalerate levels (P < 0.05). Correlation analysis showed that cecal acetate, propionate, butyrate, Faecalibacterium and Bifidobacterium were positively correlated with hepatic antioxidant enzyme activities (P < 0.05), and negatively correlated with hepatic lipogenic gene expression, hepatic lipid deposition and oxidative stress markers (P < 0.05). These findings indicated that MLP alleviated hepatic lipid metabolism disorders and oxidative stress in FLHS laying hens, which might be achieved by modulating gut microbiota structure and short-chain fatty acid production.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Follow-up of potential germline variants revealed by diagnostic targeted sequencing (TS) for myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) has been proposed by clinical guidelines. However, their feasibility and clinical yield in routine MDS practice remain uncertain. We evaluated real-world applicability of systematic germline follow-up in an unselected cohort of 716 patients (median age 74 years) evaluated for MDS. Their diagnostic TS data was analyzed to identify variants in CEBPA, DDX41, ETV6, GATA2, and RUNX1 with a variant allele frequency ≥35%. In total, 98 variants were identified in 87 (12.2%) patients. Germline investigation was possible for 62 patients; for the remaining 25 without biobanked material, medical charts were reviewed. We identified pathogenic/likely pathogenic (P/LP) germline variants in 19 patients (2.7%). Most P/LP variants were found in DDX41 (73.7%), followed by 10.5%, 10.5%, and 5.3% in RUNX1, GATA2, and ETV6, for germline conversion rates between 5.4% and 93.3%. Patients with P/LP variants had a median age at diagnosis of 73 years, with marked male predominance (3.75:1). Most patients were diagnosed with MDS-EB1 or MDS-EB2 (68.4%) and had normal cytogenetics (95%). A review of medical charts in younger patients (<50 years) revealed germline predisposition in other genes in additional five patients, revisiting the prevalence of predisposition to 3.4% overall and to 16.7% in those under 50. Our results show that systematic germline follow-up after diagnostic TS succeeds in identifying predisposition in nearly 3% of patients at a typical adult MDS clinic. Germline testing for genes not routinely assessed by diagnostic TS is required in younger patients.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
Claudin 18.2 (CLDN18.2), a tight junction protein normally expressed in gastric epithelium and rendered accessible during malignant transformation, has emerged as a key therapeutic target. Here, we seek to characterize the immune microenvironment of CLDN18.2-expressing gastric cancer and identify immune features associated with CLDN18.2 expression status.Tumor immune features were profiled in 103 patients with HER2-neg/low advanced GC treated with first-line immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) using multiplex immunohistochemistry (7,423,483 cells across 2,315 regions of interest [ROIs]). Findings were validated in five published whole-transcriptome sequencing/microarray cohorts (1,521 samples), including the CheckMate 649 phase 3 trial. Spatial architecture was assessed by cellular neighborhood analysis. Digital spatial profiling (DSP) was performed on 480 ROIs from a CLDN18.2-annotated tissue microarray (75 patients).CLDN18.2high tumors showed reproducible enrichment of humoral pathways, with higher CD20+ B-cell density and enrichment of B-cell/plasma-cell signatures. CLDN18.2 status alone was not associated with survival on first-line ICI therapy; in CLDN18.2low tumors, B-cell enrichment was associated with ICI benefit, unlike CLDN18.2high tumors. Spatial analyses indicated that CLDN18.2high tumors preferentially harbored tumor-infiltrating B-cells, rather than tertiary lymphoid structure/lymphoid aggregate-like neighborhoods, and this tumor-compartment localization was associated with diminished ICI benefit. DSP confirmed that CD20+ B-cell enrichment was most pronounced within tumor regions, alongside compartment-specific activation of humoral and extra-follicular response programs and interferon-associated and remodeling signatures.CLDN18.2high GC exhibits a humoral-enriched microenvironment with increased tumor-infiltrating B-cells and spatial immune organization associated with reduced ICI benefit. Spatial and humoral-state biomarkers may inform ongoing CLDN18.2-directed combination trials.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42565214
Specific to normal gastric epithelium, Claudin 18.2 (CLDN18.2) is a tight junction protein. CLDN18.2 immunohistochemistry is a companion diagnostic used to identify oesophageal and gastric adenocarcinoma patients eligible for targeted therapy with zolbetuximab. It has demonstrated survival benefits in advanced upper gastrointestinal (UGI) cancers, with many studies now exploring its potential use beyond the UGI tract. This study aimed to examine CLDN18.2 expression in a peritoneal malignancy patient cohort.CLDN18.2 immunohistochemistry was performed on archived tissue from patients who underwent cytoreductive surgery at a national centre for peritoneal malignancy. CLDN18.2 immunoprofiles were compared in two key tumour cohorts: peritoneal metastases from colorectal adenocarcinoma and appendiceal mucinous neoplasms. Positivity was defined as moderate-to-strong membranous staining in >75% of tumour cells. In addition, any CLDN18.2 positivity in tumour cells (>0% of cells showing moderate-to-strong membranous staining) was recorded in all cases.64 cases were examined; primary tumour sites of origin were colorectal (n=34, 53%) and appendiceal (n=30, 47%). CLDN18.2 positivity in the overall appendiceal group was 17% compared with 3% in colorectal adenocarcinomas (p=0.090). In the appendiceal group, CLDN18.2 positivity was only demonstrated in high-grade appendiceal mucinous carcinomas (22%, 5 of 23). CLDN18.2 positive staining (>0% of tumour cells) was significantly increased in the appendiceal group compared with colorectal adenocarcinoma (53% vs 3%, respectively) (p<0.0001).These results demonstrate CLDN18.2 expression in a subset of appendiceal peritoneal metastases. This is one of the first focused studies showing CLDN18.2 expression in this tumour group, perhaps highlighting a future role for targeted therapies in those with limited curative oncological options.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2), mismatch repair (MMR) proteins, claudin-18 isoform 2 (CLDN18.2), and the programmed cell death ligand-1 combined positive score (PD-L1 CPS) are predictive biomarkers for the efficacy of combination chemotherapy in patients with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic gastric or gastroesophageal junction cancer. However, only a small proportion of these patients are positive for at least two of these predictive biomarkers.We present a rare case of HER2-positive, CLDN18.2-positive, MMR-deficient gastric cancer. A 72-year-old man was initially diagnosed with clinical stage IVB gastric cancer (cT4aN0, M1 PUL). Immunohistochemical analysis of endoscopic biopsy specimens revealed HER2-negative, CLDN18.2-negative, and MMR-proficient gastric cancer. He underwent surgery to remove the hemorrhagic gastric cancer before chemotherapy, and immunohistochemical analysis of surgical specimens revealed HER2-positive, CLDN18.2-positive, and MMR-deficient gastric cancer. Moreover, a transbronchial lung biopsy after surgery showed that one of the bilateral multiple lung nodules was lung adenocarcinoma, and he was ultimately diagnosed with pathological stage IIB gastric cancer and clinical stage IVB lung cancer. He died of lung cancer without any signs of gastric cancer recurrence during 17 months of follow-up.HER2-positive, CLDN18.2-positive, MMR-deficient gastric cancer is extremely rare. Adequate endoscopic biopsy sampling from different areas of a tumor is essential for accurate predictive biomarker assessment in patients with gastric or gastroesophageal junction cancer because of intratumoral heterogeneity.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Researches on Tripterygium glycosides tablets (TGT) often overlook renal toxicity from prolonged use. Rubus chingii Hu (RCH) is beneficial to kidney health and has an unclear role in reducing nephrotoxicity. This study used UHPLC-Q Exactive HFX to identify Kaempferol, Hydroxygenkwanin, and Luteolin as key active components of RCH. Network pharmacology revealed RCH could protect the kidneys by modulating TNF, IL-17, NF-kappa B, and JAK-STAT pathways through targets such as BCL2, CASP3, TNF, SIRT1, EGFR, and MMP9. Biochemical and pathological studies show that TGT induces kidney injury in rats, while RCH improves kidney function and reduces inflammation and oxidative stress. Western blot confirmed that RCH could regulate the expression of TNF-α, cleaved caspase-3, and SIRT1 proteins. Transcriptomics and metabonomics reveal significant enrichment in metabolic pathways like glycerophospholipid metabolism and inflammation signaling pathways such as PPAR and JAK-STAT. After RCH treatment, most differential genes remain stable, but all 20 key metabolites are restored. Further analysis indicates that steroid hormone biosynthesis and the PPAR signaling pathway are vital for RCH's protective effects, as it regulates CYP1B1, CYP4A1, CYP4A3, EHHADH, HMGCS2, and PPARG genes, alleviating TGT-induced nephrotoxicity.© 2026 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Colitis-associated colorectal carcinoma (CAC) arises in the setting of long-standing inflammatory bowel disease and shows clinicopathological and molecular differences from sporadic colorectal carcinoma. Loss of SATB2 expression is increasingly recognized in a subset of CACs, but its biological significance remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate gene expression profiles of CACs, focusing on differences between SATB2-negative and SATB2-positive tumors. Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded CAC samples stratified by SATB2 immunohistochemical expression status underwent bulk RNA sequencing. Differential expression analysis identified 580 genes with significant differences between the two groups. SATB2 expression was markedly reduced in the SATB2-negative group, confirming appropriate stratification. SATB2-negative CACs showed upregulation of lineage-associated and mucin-related genes, including MUC16, CLDN18, and MUC5AC, with MUC16 showing the most prominent increase. MUC16 is a membrane-tethered mucin containing CA125 epitopes. Immunohistochemical validation demonstrated that MUC16 expression was mainly confined to the invasive components of a subset of SATB2-negative CACs, with minimal expression in dysplastic or non-invasive epithelium. These findings suggest that MUC16 expression is more closely related to tumor invasion than to early tumorigenesis. SATB2-negative CACs represent a biologically distinct subset characterized by altered differentiation and upregulation of invasion-associated markers such as MUC16. Loss of SATB2 and gain of MUC16 expression appear to occur within the same tumor lineage, suggesting coordinated phenotypic changes during tumor progression. Overall, these findings support a role for SATB2 loss in colitis-associated tumorigenesis and identify MUC16 as a potential marker of invasive progression in CAC.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aimed to investigate the therapeutic effect of Huangqin Qingre Chubi Capsules(HQC) on rheumatoid arthritis(RA) and the mechanism of inhibiting RA macrophage polarization by reducing the entry of intestine-derived lipopolysaccharide(LPS) into the bloodstream. ELISA and 16S rRNA analysis were used to assess the inhibitory effect of HQC on LPS in the intestinal contents of mice in vivo. The effect of HQC on macrophage proliferation was detected by CCK-8 assay to determine the appropriate dose of drug-containing serum. RT-qPCR and immunofluorescence assay were used to detect the expression of genes related to macrophage polarization. Transcriptomics was used to predict the biomolecular function of macrophages upon LPS stimulation, and molecular docking was utilized to verify the binding of key HQC components to Wnt family member 7b(Wnt7b). Following co-culture of macrophages with fibroblast-like synoviocytes(FLS), RT-qPCR, Western blot, scratch assay, flow cytometry, and immunofluorescence assay were employed to investigate the regulatory mechanism of HQC on M1 macrophage-FLS communication via the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. The results showed that LPS was highly expressed in the intestinal contents of collagen-induced arthritis(CIA) model mice, and HQC administration exhibited a negative correlation with this expression. M1 macrophages promoted the expression of inflammatory factors such as inducible nitric oxide synthase(iNOS), tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), and interleukin-6(IL-6), and also increased oxidative activity; these effects could be reversed by HQC. Transcriptomic analysis predicted that the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway was highly correlated with the effect of HQC on macrophage polarization in RA treatment. HQC-containing serum inhibited FLS migration, promoted apoptosis, and suppressed the expression of key genes in the Wnt signaling pathway, including c-Myc, CCND1, and β-catenin. Molecular docking indicated strong binding affinity between key components of HQC and Wnt7b. Overexpression of Wnt7b in macrophages, followed by co-culture with FLS, significantly interfered with the therapeutic effects of HQC. These findings demonstrated that HQC alleviates RA by inhibiting the entry of intestine-derived LPS into the bloodstream, thereby blocking M1 macrophages-FLS communication.
Ruminant epithelia preferentially catabolize butyrate to fuel metabolism, yet the mechanism by which the rumen epithelium establishes this preference remains unclear. Here, we identify ACSF2 as a mitochondrial acyl‑CoA synthetase (ACS) that catalyzes the activation of butyrate to butyryl‑CoA, thereby enabling rumen butyrate preference. We found that ACSF2 is markedly enriched in the forestomachs across ovine organs, with expression far exceeding other ACSs in the rumen epithelium, and it is rising during postnatal establishment of fermentative function. Single‑cell transcriptomics and immunostaining localize ACSF2 to the mitochondria‑rich layers, where it is co‑expressed in mitochondria with ketogenesis genes, notably the rate‑limiting enzyme HMGCS2. Further gain‑ and loss‑of‑function experiments show that ACSF2 activates butyrate to butyryl‑CoA, enhances butyrate‑supported growth, and is required for efficient butyrate consumption, cell fitness, and ketogenesis under butyrate‑dependent conditions. These findings define ACSF2 as a key mitochondrial gatekeeper for butyrate utilization in the rumen epithelium, providing a molecular mechanism for butyrate‑biased energy metabolism during rumen maturation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42540518 is a review article
Advanced gastric and gastroesophageal junction (G/GEJ) adenocarcinomas are characterized by an aggressive course and a very poor prognosis. Due to the limited benefit of immunotherapy in patients with HER2-negative tumors, new therapeutic targets are sought. Zolbetuximab is a chimeric monoclonal antibody targeting the CLDN18.2 protein, which is overexpressed in 50-80% of gastric cancers.This review is based on phase I-III clinical trials, including the pivotal SPOTLIGHT, GLOW, FAST, and ILUSTRO trials. The efficacy and safety of zolbetuximab in combination with chemotherapy were assessed as first-line treatment for adults with locally advanced or metastatic G/GEJ adenocarcinoma, HER2-negative, and highly CLDN18.2-expressing.Early phase studies confirmed the clinical activity and tolerability of zolbetuximab. A Japanese phase I study demonstrated the safety and pharmacokinetic profile of zolbetuximab as monotherapy, establishing the recommended dose in subsequent studies. The phase II FAST study demonstrated that the addition of zolbetuximab to EOX chemotherapy significantly improved both PFS (HR 0.44; p=0.0005) and OS (HR 0.55; p=0.0001). The phase II ILUSTRO study demonstrated activity of zolbetuximab both as monotherapy (ORR 9%) and in combination with mFOLFOX6 (ORR 39%), supporting its advancement to phase III. These results were confirmed in two pivotal randomized phase III studies. In the SPOTLIGHT study, the addition of zolbetuximab to mFOLFOX6 reduced the risk of death by 25% (median OS 18.23 vs. 15.54 months), and in the GLOW study, the addition of zolbetuximab to CAPOX reduced the risk of death by almost 23% (median OS 14.39 vs. 12.16 months). The most common adverse events were nausea and vomiting, occurring primarily in the first treatment cycle.Zolbetuximab represents a significant advancement in the treatment of patients with advanced G/GEJ adenocarcinoma overexpressing CLDN18.2, addressing an important unmet clinical need. However, optimizing the stringent threshold for CLDN18.2 positivity (requiring staining in ≥75% of cells) and establishing a treatment regimen for patients with concurrent CLDN18.2 and PD-L1 expression remains a significant challenge. The review protocol was prospectively registered in the PROSPERO database (International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews) under registration number CRD420261383764.https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/, identifier CRD420261383764.Copyright © 2026 Picheta, Piekarz, Pobideł, Szklener and Skórzewska.
X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH) is a rare genetic disorder caused by PHEX mutations, leading to hypophosphatemia and impaired bone mineralization. Burosumab, a monoclonal antibody targeting FGF23, improves phosphate levels and bone health. Although burosumab improves musculoskeletal pain, it remains unclear whether this benefit results solely from restoration of phosphate homeostasis or also involves immunomodulatory mechanisms. Given the role of FGF23 in modulating macrophage function and the involvement of TRPV1 - expressed by macrophages - in pain transmission, we investigated the effects of burosumab on macrophage polarisation and TRPV1 expression in children with XLH.Macrophages were isolated from untreated XLH patients (n=4), burosumab-treated XLH patients (n=8), and healthy donors (n=5). Western blot was used to assess M1 (CCR7, CD86, iNOS) and M2 (CD206, p-STAT6) markers, as well as TRPV1 expression. To evaluate burosumab's direct effects, macrophages from healthy donors were stimulated with LPS and treated with 1.5 or 3 μg/mL burosumab, followed by the same analyses.Untreated XLH macrophages predominantly exhibited an M1 phenotype with higher TRPV1 protein levels compared to healthy controls. In contrast, macrophages from burosumab-treated patients showed a tendency to acquire an M2-like phenotype and reduced TRPV1 expression. Similar effects were observed in vitro, with LPS-stimulated healthy macrophages shifting toward the M2 phenotype and showing decreased TRPV1 after burosumab exposure.In untreated XLH patients, macrophages exhibit a pro-inflammatory M1 phenotype with upregulated TRPV1 expression. Burosumab reverses this profile, driving M2 polarization and reducing TRPV1 levels, thereby suggesting that it exerts therapeutic effects beyond phosphate homeostasis through immunomodulation.X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH) causes rickets and chronic pain. We found that immune cells from untreated patients show a pro-inflammatory profile. Treatment with burosumab shifted these immune cells toward an anti-inflammatory state and reduced the expression of TRPV1, a molecule involved in neuroimmune signaling, suggesting that burosumab may exert biological effects beyond bone health.© the author(s).
Confirming the underlying molecular etiology of hereditary hypophosphatemia (HH) to provide recurrence risk counseling is highly important. Our aims were to describe the detected variants and their distribution across Argentina and to contrast them with published data. Patients with HH prospectively referred to a hypophosphatemia program for genetic testing were included. Saliva samples were evaluated by next-generation sequencing with a panel of 13 genes associated with HH. In patients with no variants detected in the HH rickets related gene panel, multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification was performed for the PHEX gene. Cascade genetic testing was recommended for at-risk relatives of index cases (IC). One hundred and sixty participants were enrolled, including 129 ICs with suspected HH (80.62%). Among them, 114 had a positive molecular test (88.37%); 93% were variations in the PHEX gene, predominantly single-nucleotide variants. Distribution of variant types was consistent with international databases. In our sample, 12% of subjects had undetectable variants in the gene panel, highlighting the importance of complete genome sequencing. Ours is the first study in Latin America to analyze PHEX variants, which is considered crucial for the generation of regional evidence to understand the genetic variability of HH and for leading specific targeted treatment.© 2026 The Author(s). American Journal of Medical Genetics Part A published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
It is well established that the early stage of mechanical unloading in both humans and animals is characterized by a decline in the activity of the key cellular energy sensor, AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). This decline triggers signaling pathways that drive myosin phenotype remodeling and muscle atrophy. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the reduction in AMPK activity under these conditions remain poorly understood. We hypothesized that elevated activity of protein kinase D1 (PKD1) could contribute to the decline in AMPK activity during the initial stage of rat hindlimb unloading. The present study demonstrates that the suppression of upregulated PKD1 activity via a specific inhibitor (CRT0066101) during 24-hour unloading results in the restoration of AMPK activity in the rat soleus muscle. Thus, we have shown for the first time the contribution of PKD1 to the regulation of AMPK activity in the mammalian postural muscle during the initial stage of hindlimb unloading.© 2026. Pleiades Publishing, Ltd.
Neonates and infants with FOXF1 mutation develop alveolar capillary dysplasia with misalignment of pulmonary veins (ACD/MPV), which is typically considered a uniformly fatal neonatal lung disorder due to marked hypoxemic respiratory failure with severe pulmonary hypertension (PH). Survival beyond infancy is exceedingly rare, with limited reports of FOXF1 genetic abnormalities in older children or adult cases of severe PH. Here, we report the case of a male patient with a pathogenic FOXF1 variant who presented with severe PH in early infancy whose disease stabilized and improved with early and aggressive PH therapy. The patient subsequently died at the age of 30 years, however, due to severe right ventricular failure due to the acute onset of pneumonia. This case highlights that survival into adulthood is feasible in patients with FOXF1-related pulmonary vascular disease and supports the inclusion of FOXF1 in pulmonary hypertension genetic panels for subjects who develop PH across the lifespan.© 2026 The Author(s). Pulmonary Circulation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Pulmonary Vascular Research Institute.
A transplanted lung offers a permissive milieu for local adaptive immune cell responses. Here, we characterize a transcriptionally and anatomically distinct adult lung-resident mesenchymal stromal population (MSC) that supports a pro-survival niche for antibody-secreting cells in rejecting lung allografts through a novel IL-6 trans-signaling/CXCL12 axis. By using a mouse orthotopic lung transplant model and Blimp1 EYFP recipients, we identify spatial localization of antibody-secreting cells (ASCs) and terminally differentiated plasma cells (PCs) along the bronchovascular bundles (BVBs). A previously described Foxf1 + Gli1 + Itga8 - subset of collagen- expressing MSCs, which forms a 3-dimensional network along the bronchovascular bundles (BVB-MSCs), was found to be the major source of the PC survival factors CXCL12 and IL-6. Cxcl12 iCre/ERT2 Rosa26 tdTomato mice utilized as donors, validated the expansion of this population in a rejecting graft and their intimate association with ASCs. CXCL12 expression was increased in murine allografts and in Foxf1 + mesenchymal cells (MCs) isolated from human CLAD patients. IL-6 trans-signaling/STAT3 signaling axis was shown to upregulate CXCL12 secretion in human MCs, and Olamkicept-mediated neutralization of IL-6 trans-signaling in murine RAS attenuates CXCL12 expression, intra-graft ASC population, and fibrogenesis. Our findings represent the first delineation of specialized CXCL12-expressing mesenchymal stromal cells in adult lungs and the contribution of IL-6 trans-signaling driven CXCL12 expression to sustaining intra-graft ASC niches and allograft fibrogenesis.We characterize CXCL12-expressing mesenchymal cells and their role in a pro-survival niche for antibody-secreting cells in rejecting lung allografts.
Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is the most common genetic kidney disease worldwide, characterized by progressive cyst growth and inflammation, yet effective targeted therapies remain limited. Here we show that TMEM16A and MCP-1, key mediators of cyst-lining epithelial expansion and inflammatory macrophage recruitment respectively, are consistently upregulated in cyst-lining collecting duct (CD) epithelia across murine, porcine, and human ADPKD models. In human ADPKD patient cells, although individual silencing of TMEM16A or MCP-1 transcripts reduced cyst growth, combined silencing produced superior therapeutic efficacy, establishing the rationale for evaluating dual-target delivery. To achieve dual gene silencing in the kidneys, we delivered Tmem16a and Mcp -1 siRNA using peptide amphiphile micelles (PAMs), an ultrasmall nanoparticle platform that enables efficient renal targeting. To redirect siRNA-loaded PAMs to CD epithelia, we functionalized their surface with a CD-targeting peptide (CDM), which enabled preferential accumulation in cyst-lining CD epithelia. In an inducible Pkd1 -deficient mouse model, co-delivery of CDMs loaded with Tmem16a and Mcp-1 siRNA reduced kidney enlargement, cystic burden, tubular injury, and macrophage infiltration, with efficacy exceeding non-targeted siRNA delivery at equivalent doses. CDM demonstrated enhanced uptake in primary human ADPKD patient-derived CD cells and dual gene silencing reduced target gene expression and cyst expansion, establishing translational relevance. These findings establish CD peptide-functionalized micelles as a route to cell-type-selective RNAi in the kidney, delivering siRNA to cyst-lining CD cells. Furthermore, because both targets, TMEM16A and MCP-1 , are transcribed within CD cells, our siRNA-loaded CD-targeting micelles silence two drivers of cyst expansion, and their simultaneous suppression represents an effective therapeutic strategy for ADPKD.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42537405
Deer antler is the only mammalian organ capable of periodic complete regeneration. Its astonishing growth rate-reaching several centimeters per day-provides a unique model for research in tissue regeneration and developmental biology. This rapid growth relies on the protective and signaling functions of the skin, as well as the vigorous proliferation and differentiation capacity of mesenchymal cells. Although previous studies have identified some key factors involved in antler growth, systematically comparing the transcriptomic profiles of these two core tissues (skin and mesenchyme) to identify candidate genes regulating their synergistic growth is crucial for deciphering the molecular mechanisms underlying this "ultra-fast" growth.The Illumina NovaSeq 6000 sequencing platform was used to perform transcriptome sequencing on the antler tissues of the Cervus elaphus xanthopygus (Dongbei red deer) with a growth period of approximately 60 days. Bioinformatics methods were used to identify the transcriptional expression of genes in the antler tissues, and the expression levels of some genes were tested by fluorescence quantitative PCR.A total of 109.82 Gb of transcriptome data was generated from the skin and mesenchymal tissues of antlers, and 40,023 transcripts were obtained. There were 3,530 genes with differential expression between the skin and the mesenchymal tissues of antlers. Genes with upregulated expression levels in the mesenchymal layer were enriched in phosphate-containing compound metabolic processes and multiple biological processes related to bone development such as skeletal system development, cartilage development, regulation of ossification, and enamel mineralization. Among the genes enriched in the cancer pathway and the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, those that may play an important role in the rapid growth process of deer antlers were screened, including MDM2, RPS6KB1, CASP3, BMP4, PTCH1, SOX-6, YWHAZ, and HSP90B1.The discovery of these genes provides a reference for a further in-depth understanding of the mechanism of the rapid growth of antlers.©2026 Bi et al.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a highly effective anthracycline chemotherapeutic agent whose clinical utility is limited by dose-dependent cardiotoxicity. Although oxidative stress and mitochondrial injury are established mechanisms, the contribution of regulated metal-dependent cell death (MCD) pathways remains incompletely defined. This study investigated the ferroptosis and cuproptosis role in doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity (DIC) and evaluated the protective effects of luteolin (LUT) and nanoliposomal LUT using an integrated network pharmacology and experimental validation approach in rats. Network pharmacology identified multitarget interactions linking LUT with oxidative stress, metal homeostasis, and cell death signaling pathways. In vivo, DOX administration induced marked cardiac dysfunction, elevated serum cardiac injury biomarkers, myocardial histopathological damage, and ultrastructural abnormalities. These changes were accompanied by significant cardiac iron and copper accumulation, increased malondialdehyde (MDA), depleted superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione (GSH), reduced glutathione peroxidase-4 (GPX4) activity, and increased tumor protein p53 (TP53) expression. At the molecular level, DOX downregulated the ferroptosis-protective genes, SLC7A11 and SLC3A2, while upregulating the iron transport genes, transferrin receptor 1 (TFR1) and SLC39A14, together with the cuproptosis-related genes ferredoxin-1 (FDX1) and SLC31A1, while suppressing ATP7A. These changes were further supported by altered protein expression of SLC7A11, ATP7A, and TP53. LUT significantly ameliorated these functional, biochemical, molecular, and structural alterations, indicating suppression of both ferroptotic and cuproptotic signaling. Nanoliposomal LUT showed superior efficacy to free LUT across most assessed parameters. Collectively, these findings support the involvement of ferroptosis and cuproptosis related signaling in DIC and highlight LUT, particularly in nanoliposomal form, as a promising cardioprotective strategy against anthracycline toxicity.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42526788 is a review article
Hair cell regeneration from supporting cells declines rapidly during early postnatal development, limiting therapeutic applications. We demonstrate that strategic microenvironmental remodeling can dramatically enhance inner ear progenitor cell (IEPC) function beyond what conventional marker-based approaches predict. Using functional screening focused on differentiation capacity rather than single progenitor markers (Lgr5), we discovered that concurrent Sonic hedgehog activation and BMP inhibition create a synergistic niche environment. This dual signaling approach generated high-purity Sox2+/Ki67+ IEPCs from postnatal day 7 (P7) supporting cells with 50.83%±1.76% hair cell differentiation efficiency. Single-cell RNA sequencing revealed that this strategy drives progenitor reprogramming by activating inner ear developmental gene programs while suppressing supporting cell identity. Regenerated hair cells exhibited functional mechanotransduction, voltage-gated currents, and drug sensitivity profiles. Importantly, this microenvironmental control strategy remained effective up to the P9 stage, demonstrating that niche reconstruction can overcome developmental stage-specific limitations in progenitor function. These findings establish niche remodeling as a powerful framework for enhancing stem cell therapeutic potential.© 2026. Science China Press.
The Fucci mouse lines are valuable tools for tracing cell cycle stages during development and in postnatal tissues; however, the insertion loci for the transgenes remain unidentified. Here, we report the genomic insertion sites of both the Fucci-G1 and -S/G2/M transgenes, identified through whole-genome sequencing. Interestingly, the Fucci-G1 transgene is located proximal to the Shh lung gut enhancer (SLGE) on chromosome 5. Homozygous Fucci-G1 embryos are perinatal lethal but survive until embryonic day (E)18.5, exhibiting craniofacial and foregut-related defects. Expression of Shh and canonical targets are downregulated in the pharyngeal arches of E11.5 homozygous Fucci-G1 embryos. Furthermore, in situ hybridization analysis showed diminished Shh expression in the pharyngeal and foregut endoderm, consistent with disruptions to SLGE activity. Our results indicate that heterozygous Fucci-G1 mice are suitable for cell cycle studies; however, we caution potential genetic interference when investigating SHH-related pathways.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Evidence on the clinical utility of baseline human epididymis protein 4 levels and their kinetics in recurrent ovarian cancer remains limited. This study evaluated longitudinal human epididymis protein 4 dynamics in real-world patients treated with platinum-based chemotherapy, aiming to determine the prognostic significance of human epididymis protein 4 kinetic parameters compared with CA125 response and established prognostic factors for progression-free and overall survival.This retrospective analysis included 220 patients with recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer treated with second-line platinum-based chemotherapy between 2000 and 2020. Four mathematical models were tested to describe human epididymis protein 4 kinetics, with model selection based on goodness of fit, visual predictive checks, and prognostic performance. The prognostic value of the most informative human epididymis protein 4 kinetic parameter (the modeled residual human epididymis protein 4 level), was assessed in univariable and multi-variable analyses.Among the 93 assessable patients, no clear associations were observed between baseline human epididymis protein 4 levels and disease characteristics. Longitudinal human epididymis protein 4 kinetics differed from those of CA125 and showed an initial decline followed by a plateau at approximately 40 days. The best-fitting model was a mono-exponential decline incorporating the modeled residual human epididymis protein 4 parameter, which was subsequently evaluated as a prognostic factor. Baseline human epididymis protein 4 levels lacked prognostic significance for progression-free or overall survival. In contrast, a higher modeled residual human epididymis protein 4 level was significantly associated with shorter progression-free and overall survival in univariable analyses (residual human epididymis protein 4 ≥median vs <median; median progression-free survival: 7.2 vs 12.6 months, p =.002; median overall survival: 16.5 vs 34.9 months; p =.001) and in multi-variable models (overall survival: hazard ratio 2.65; 95% confidence interval 1.23 to 5.71, p =.012) alongside CA125 response.In this study, we identified residual HE4 levels in patients treated with second-line platinum-based chemotherapy as an independent dynamic marker of overall survival, with higher levels indicating poorer outcomes and potential chemoresistance.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Photoreceptors are retinal neurons whose subtype-specific opsin expression and mosaic organization enable parallel encoding of spectral and spatial visual information. Yet, the transcriptional mechanisms establishing and maintaining subtype identity remain poorly understood. We investigated the role of the T-box transcription factors tbx2a and tbx2b in zebrafish photoreceptor development and found evidence for paralog subfunctionalization across photoreceptor lineages. Tbx2b is required for UV-cone generation and prevents fate switching toward rods, while Tbx2a is constrained to UV-cone generation without involving rods. These factors also maintain cone identity by repressing inappropriate M-cone fate. Despite major changes in photoreceptor composition, tbx2 mutants retain luminance- and motion-driven vision, whereas prey capture is abolished only in tbx2b mutants and not tbx2a mutants. Our findings identify the tbx2 paralogs as key regulators of cone-subtype generation and maintenance and reveal how developmental programs diversify photoreceptor fate to appropriately support visually-guided behaviors important for survival.
Ovarian cancer remains the most lethal gynecologic cancer, with limited improvements in patient survival despite targeted therapies and a high recurrence rate (~80%). Current standard-of-care for frontline treatment involves platinum-based chemotherapy, but the emergence of resistant clones limits long-term efficacy. Existing models often overlook critical interactions between cancer cells and their microenvironment. Therefore, we investigated the ovarian cancer microenvironment to identify cell populations and markers driving treatment resistance.We employed a multi-modal systems biology approach, integrating multiplex immunohistochemistry, bulk, and single-cell RNA sequencing to characterize the ovarian cancer microenvironment. Cell type composition was quantified using ImageJ (mIF) and computational deconvolution tools (CIBERSORTx, singleR) for benign (n=6-13) and cancer (n=7-20) samples. Platinum-sensitivity was determined by mapping single-cell data to a clinically annotated reference. Differential expression analysis and pathway enrichment were performed to identify key biological processes between benign vs cancer and sensitive vs resistant phenotypes. Additionally, a combinatorial marker identification tool (COMET) was used to determine a resistant signature in the sc-RNAseq dataset, which was validated using pseudotime in sc-RNAseq and the TCGA-OV bulk-RNAseq cohort.Across modalities, results showed an increase in macrophage and T cell marker expression with an upregulation of inflammatory and immune pathways, alongside decreased fibroblast abundance, in cancer compared to benign tissues. Resistant samples also showed high expression of macrophage and fibroblast markers paired with an enrichment of the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition pathway while sensitive samples showed high expression of T and NK cell markers and the upregulation of immune pathways. COMET identified two distinct resistant programs: an EMT-associated fibroblast signature characterized by INHBA, TIMP3 and NNMT; and a canonical epithelial ovarian cancer signature characterized by SLPI, MMP7, and WFDC2. Resistant signature scoring of bulk data from the TCGA-OV cohort predicted shorter treatment-free intervals for patients with higher signature scores and longer treatment-free intervals for patients with lower scores.These findings highlight the importance of tumor microenvironment components, particularly macrophages and fibroblasts, as key contributors to resistance in ovarian cancer and establish a potential resistant signature for biomarker discovery.
Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis dysregulation is a hallmark of major depressive disorder in adults. However, the long-term impact of adolescent depression on adult HPA axis function and adrenal steroidogenesis remains unclear. To address this, we exposed male mice to chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) during postnatal weeks (PW) 4-8 to model adolescent depression. At PW8, CUMS mice exhibited elevated HPA axis activity and enhanced adrenal steroidogenesis, confirming successful model induction. By PW16 (adulthood), HPA axis activity had normalized, whereas adrenal steroidogenesis was markedly suppressed. Transcriptomic analysis followed by validation revealed downregulation of Hedgehog signaling components in the adrenal glands of CUMS mice at PW16. Furthermore, a persistent reduction in H3K4me3 enrichment at the SHH promoter was observed from PW8 to PW16. In vitro, corticosterone treatment reduced SHH promoter H3K4me3 levels and inhibited Hedgehog signaling in adrenocortical cells. Collectively, these findings indicate that adolescent CUMS impairs adult adrenal steroidogenesis via glucocorticoid-mediated epigenetic repression of the SHH/Hedgehog signaling pathway. This study provides novel mechanistic insights into the persistent endocrine consequences of adolescent depression.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42530719 is a review article
This study aimed to evaluate the role and optimal timing of radiotherapy following intensive chemotherapy in infants with medulloblastoma (MB), and to explore whether molecular subtyping may inform radiotherapy timing strategies.We conducted a retrospective cohort study including 105 children aged < 3 years with MB treated at Beijing Shijitan Hospital, Capital Medical University, between 2013 and 2023. Clinical data were collected to compare clinical characteristics and survival outcomes across different radiotherapy strategies.Among 105 infants with MB, 67 (63.8%) were classified as SHH, 18 (17.1%) as Group 3, and 20 (19.0%) as Group 4, with no WNT cases identified. The SHH subgroup demonstrated significantly better survival than the Non-SHH subgroup (comprising Group 3 and Group 4), with 3-year overall survival (OS) of 80.2% versus 46.0% and progression-free survival (PFS) of 62.6% versus 30.4% (both P < 0.001). Patients were stratified into chemotherapy-only, upfront radiotherapy, and salvage radiotherapy groups based on treatment timing. In SHH patients, upfront radiotherapy did not confer additional survival benefit over chemotherapy alone (P = 0.658), whereas salvage radiotherapy was associated with longer observed OS (P = 0.005). In contrast, in the Non-SHH subgroup, chemotherapy alone was associated with a high progression rate (85.7%), and radiotherapy was associated with improved survival outcomes.Real-world data demonstrate distinct differences between SHH and Non-SHH infant MBs in survival outcomes and radiotherapy strategies. The SHH subtype showed favorable survival with systemic chemotherapy, whereas the Non-SHH subtype exhibited limited disease control with chemotherapy alone, suggesting a more critical role for radiotherapy in this population.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Previous studies from us and others suggest that the second heart field (SHF)-derived outflow tract (OFT) wall can undergo a cell fate transition to mesenchymal cells within the intercalated valve swelling (ICVS). However, the trajectory of this transition and its intrinsic regulation remain unknown. Here, we investigate cell fate determination in OFT development and identify specific Nkx2-5 expression in the inferior midline OFT (imOFT) wall and adjacent ICVS. scRNA-seq of E10.5 OFT revealed a transcriptional signature specific to the imICVS within the heterogeneous cell populations. We observed that cells of the imOFT wall ingress while maintaining myocyte properties, whereas the leading cells initiate a transition to a mesenchymal fate. Furthermore, these ingressing cells exhibit 'lily-bulb' collective cell migration. In addition, we found that β-catenin, Shh and FGF8 signaling are associated with imICVS formation. These results identify a novel type of cell ingression and the imICVS appears to spatially coordinate the distribution of OFT main cushion derived from neural crest. This study provides new insights into the role of the SHF in OFT septation and the pathogenesis of congenital heart diseases.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Mindbomb1 (MIB1), an E3 ubiquitin ligase required for NOTCH activation, has been identified as a strongly selective cancer dependency in genome-wide loss-of-function screens in over 1000 cancer cell lines. However, MIB1-correlating dependencies in these screens unexpectedly linked MIB1 not to Notch but rather to the family of Transforming Growth Factor-β (TGF-β) and Bone Morphogenic Protein (BMP) signaling molecules. Here, using genetic and pharmacologic methods, we show that MIB1 loss phenocopies BMP tumor suppressive function. MIB1-dependent cancer cell lines were sensitive to BMP ligands, and MIB1 loss selectively enhanced BMP signaling, as evidenced by SMAD1/5/9 phosphorylation and transcriptional responses that correlated with increased BMP receptor protein levels. Growth inhibition and enhanced signaling were both reversed by inhibitors of BMP type 1 receptors, demonstrating that these MIB1 effects directly reflect a function for MIB1 as a negative regulator of BMP signaling. Unlike wild-type MIB1, re-expression of RING-domain-deleted MIB1 failed to rescue growth inhibition in MIB1-depleted cells, suggesting that negative regulation depends on E3 ligase activity. Supporting this regulatory role, we found that MIB1 and the BMP type II receptor BMPR2 physically associate in both cancer and endothelial cells. By revealing this previously unknown role for MIB1 as a Notch-independent negative regulator of BMP signaling, our study expands the significance of MIB1 in cancer biology, with implications for targeting BMP signaling in cancer and other diseases.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42562184 is a review article
Sepsis-induced intestinal epithelial barrier dysfunction contributes to gastrointestinal injury during critical illness, yet the molecular mechanisms underlying barrier disruption remain incompletely understood. This study investigated the potential involvement of Grainyhead-like 2 (GRHL2) in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced intestinal epithelial barrier injury.LPS-induced intestinal barrier injury was evaluated using Caco-2 monolayers and a mouse endotoxemia model. Barrier integrity was assessed by transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER), immunofluorescence, histological analysis, serum cytokine measurement, and FITC-dextran permeability assays. Transcriptomic analysis was performed to identify biological processes associated with LPS-induced intestinal injury. GRHL2 expression was evaluated by qRT-PCR, immunohistochemistry, and Western blotting. Gain- and loss-of-function experiments were performed using lentiviral-mediated GRHL2 overexpression and knockdown in vivo.LPS exposure impaired epithelial barrier integrity, as evidenced by reduced TEER values, disrupted Occludin distribution, increased serum TNF-α and IL-6 concentrations, histological injury, and enhanced intestinal permeability. Transcriptomic analysis revealed marked transcriptional alterations following LPS exposure, with enrichment of biological processes related to inflammatory responses, cell-cell adhesion, epithelial development, and extracellular matrix organization. GRHL2 expression was significantly reduced in LPS-treated intestinal tissues together with decreased expression of several epithelial junction-associated molecules, including E-cadherin, Claudin-3, Claudin-4, and Occludin. Functional modulation demonstrated that GRHL2 knockdown aggravated intestinal injury and permeability, whereas GRHL2 overexpression attenuated barrier dysfunction and was accompanied by increased expression of multiple epithelial junction-associated molecules.These findings demonstrate that GRHL2 contributes to the maintenance of intestinal epithelial barrier integrity during LPS-induced injury. The observed association between GRHL2 downregulation and impaired expression of epithelial junction-associated molecules suggests that GRHL2 may participate in the epithelial response to inflammatory injury. Further studies are required to clarify the molecular mechanisms underlying GRHL2 regulation and its role in intestinal barrier homeostasis.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Li, Bao, Lu, Li, Fu, Zhang and Li.
Diabetic peripheral neuropathy is a prevalent consequence of diabetes mellitus that impairs quality of life. This study aimed to investigate the impact of second generation capacitive-resistive non-invasive radiofrequency (transfer of energy capacitive and resistive, TECAR) therapy as a non-invasive modality to increase peripheral perfusion assessed using pulse oximetry by measuring the perfusion index (PI), and to improve pain in patients with painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy (PDPN).A prospective interventional study was performed in the outpatient clinic of a tertiary care hospital. Twenty-three patients of both sexes, aged 40-70 years, with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and PDPN in the lower limbs, with Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) ≥3 in the feet, were included in the study. All patients received 12 sessions of TECAR therapy over four weeks under PI monitoring of the big toe on the targeted side. The change in PI at the end of the first session was defined as a primary outcome. Pain scoring and analgesic effect at the end of all sessions were set as secondary outcomes.PI increased significantly after each session compared to the session before VAS showed significant improvement from the third session onward, lasting for one month after the 12th session. Tactile sensation showed significant improvement from the fourth session through the end of the sessions. By the end of the sessions, 18 patients (78.3%) achieved complete remission, with a significant Difference compared to baseline (P value <0.001). The Total Remission Rate was 82.08±11.33%.TECAR therapy is proposed as an effective, safe, and non-invasive approach for improving symptoms of peripheral neuropathy associated with T2DM.
Primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD) is a rare, genetically heterogeneous disorder typically inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. Pseudo-dominant inheritance is exceptionally uncommon and remains poorly characterized in PCD.We conducted a clinical and genetic study of a non-consanguineous Chinese PCD pedigree with four affected individuals across two generations. Whole exome sequencing and Sanger sequencing were performed to identify pathogenic variants.Two variants in DNAAF1, c.1930A>T (p.Arg644Ter) and c.1022_1023del (p.Gln341ArgfsTer10), were identified and shown to co-segregate with the disease in a pseudo-dominant pattern. The proband, her brother, and her two naturally conceived sons were all affected, with her parents and husband being unaffected carriers. Transmission electron microscopy revealed absence of both outer and inner dynein arms, and high-speed video analysis demonstrated immotile or severely reduced ciliary beating. Intrafamilial phenotypic variability was notable, including distinct laterality defects (situs inversus, heterotaxy, and situs solitus) and varying degrees of pulmonary involvement.Our report provides the first description of pseudo-dominant inheritance in PCD and expands the knowledge of the disease by offering detailed clinical and ciliary phenotyping.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Genetics & Genomic Medicine published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) is an aggressive and heterogeneous malignancy with limited biomarkers to guide patient stratification and response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC). We sought to define the biological basis and clinical utility of a bladder cancer-associated ten-gene signature for predicting prognosis and therapeutic response.Bulk transcriptomic data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and single-nucleus RNA sequencing (snRNASeq) of primary MIBC tumors were integrated to characterize the cellular context of the ten-gene bladder cancer (BLCA) signature. Machine-learning approaches were applied to qPCR-derived expression data to develop an exploratory model for survival stratification.An expression-based direction-weighted BLCA signature score was associated with worse OS, DSS, and PFI in TCGA-BLCA and marked a tumor state characterized by coordinated activation of oncogenic programs including EMT, cell-cycle, and MAPK/PI3K signaling. snRNASeq revealed enrichment of signature activity within the stromal compartment, marked by expansion of FAP+ /PDPN+ fibroblasts and MHCII+ macrophages with endothelial remodeling. High-signature tumors exhibited an immune-dysregulated microenvironment characterized by increased immune checkpoint expression (CD274, HAVCR2, TIGIT) and reduced antigen-presentation machinery. This stromal-dominant phenotype was particularly associated with Luminal MIBC. Functionally, high expression of key signature components (e.g. SDC1, VEGFA, CXCL8) predicts a distinct, targetable vulnerability to MEK inhibitors in drug sensitivity databases.Translating these findings, qPCR-derived expression of the ten-gene panel was used to build an exploratory machine-learning model for survival stratification in the NAC-treated MIBC cohort. The selected StepCox (forward) + RSF model showed moderate internal discrimination after bootstrap optimism correction (optimism-corrected C-index = 0.695, 95% CI 0.628-0.792), supporting the feasibility of qPCR-based risk modeling while highlighting the need for external validation.© 2026. The Author(s).
To identify molecular mechanisms distinguishing the erosive subtype of oral lichen planus (EOLP) from the non-erosive subtype (NEOLP) through transcriptomic analysis.We analysed bulk RNA-seq data from 30 buccal mucosa samples (13 EOLP, 17 NEOLP) using differential expression, Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA), transcription factor inference, bulk transcriptome deconvolution with xCell 2.0, metabolic flux simulation and novel pathway correlation analysis combining Gene Set Variation Analysis (GSVA) with Differential Gene Correlation Analysis (DGCA).Three molecular signatures distinguished EOLP from NEOLP. First, metabolic-inflammatory coordination was disrupted in EOLP, with reversed correlations between integrated stress response regulators and metabolic pathways. Second, EOLP showed concurrent suppression of cell cycle and senescence programs, suggesting an altered epithelial state. Third, inflammatory profiling revealed myeloid-skewed activation (elevated SPI1/PU.1), enrichment of bacterial-response pathways, and loss of epithelial barrier signatures (GRHL2, keratinization). Mitochondrial dysfunction with selective Complex IV upregulation further supported a myeloid-driven metabolic remodelling in EOLP.EOLP is characterised by disrupted metabolic-stress coordination, epithelial dysregulation, and myeloid-dominant inflammation. Our findings support a model in which microbial-associated stimuli may drive myeloid-centred metabolic reprogramming that sustains chronic inflammatory activity in EOLP. These results highlight potential therapeutic axes including restoration of metabolic-inflammatory balance, modulation of microbial influences, and epithelial barrier repair, although validation in larger cohorts and higher-resolution studies is required.© 2026 The Author(s). Oral Diseases published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Bladder cancer (BCa) is a highly prevalent urological malignancy and one of the most frequently occurring cancers worldwide, necessitating the development of diagnostic and therapeutic biomarkers. This study aimed to explore candidate genes that may be involved in the carcinogenesis of BCa.BCa gene expression data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database were analyzed. Both differential expression analysis and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) were performed on datasets (GSE236932, GSE133624) to identify the key modules and hub genes. We subsequently extracted genes from the top modules positively correlated with tumor traits identified via WGCNA and intersected them with differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in each dataset. Finally, the overlapping genes were screened for their therapeutic potential as biomarkers in bladder cancer, and quantitative Real-Time PCR (qRT-PCR) was executed to validate the expression patterns of the most promising candidate genes in clinical tissue samples.Integrative analysis revealed a set of hub genes potentially involved in bladder cancer, including PSMG3, ESRP1, GRHL2, MAL2, CDH1, AP1M2, PAFAH1B3, PRKCZ, MAPK13, and RAB25. Among these, PAFAH1B3 and PSMG3 emerged as notable novel candidates. qRT-PCR validation further underscored the significant overexpression of these genes in BCa samples, with approximately two-fold changes relative to normal tissues.This study suggests that PAFAH1B3 and PSMG3 may serve as valuable biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets in bladder cancer. However, further investigations are needed to establish their biological function and clinical relevance.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Differential fecundity in goats is a complex trait governed by coordinated molecular regulation across reproductive and endocrine tissues. In this study, we performed integrated metabolomic profiling of follicular fluid, serum, thyroid tissue, and uterine luminal fluid together with transcriptomic sequencing of follicular, thyroid, and uterine horn tissues from high-fecundity (HF) and low-fecundity (LF) Yangtze River Delta White goats. In addition, weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was conducted to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying differential litter size. High-fecundity goats exhibited enhanced follicular steroidogenesis, superior corpus luteum function, and more stable hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid (HPT) axis activity, accompanied by increased uterine gland density and greater myometrial thickness. Metabolomic profiling identified 6640 metabolites displaying tissue-specific differential abundance patterns. Pathway enrichment analysis highlighted steroid hormone biosynthesis and energy metabolism in follicular fluid, PPAR signaling and tyrosine metabolism in thyroid tissue, and glycerophospholipid and one-carbon metabolism in uterine luminal fluid as major pathways associated with fecundity. Transcriptomic analysis identified 1596 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), including 20 genes shared across all examined tissues, constituting a systemic molecular signature associated with fecundity. WGCNA further revealed three functional tissue axes associated with follicular development (ELOVL4, INHA, NR5A2), thyroid endocrine regulation (GRHL2, NAPRT), and uterine receptivity (RSPO1, AGTR2, PTGER3). Low-fecundity-associated modules were predominantly concentrated in follicular and thyroid tissues, whereas the high-fecundity-specific module was mainly enriched in uterine horn. These findings provide a multi-tissue molecular framework underlying differential fecundity in goats and identify candidate hub genes and metabolites that may serve as candidate biomarkers for fecundity assessment and selective breeding programs.
The study of functional heterogeneity in mesenchymal stem cells relies on the efficient isolation of specific subpopulations (e.g., podoplanin (PDPN)-positive cells). However, for most membrane protein targets, directly available commercial magnetic beads for sorting are limited. To address this, our laboratory has established and tested a standardized magnetic bead sorting protocol based on the indirect coupling principle of "phycoerythrin (PE)-labeled flow cytometry antibodies/anti-PE magnetic beads." Using PDPN-positive cells as a model target population, this protocol enriches a target cell fraction without relying on expensive flow cytometric cell sorters. Researchers can use compatible PE-labeled flow cytometry antibodies targeting accessible cell-surface proteins and combine them with commercially available anti-PE microbeads to establish a sorting workflow for selected targets after target-specific optimization. This approach avoids the lengthy lead times and high costs associated with customizing or ordering target-specific magnetic beads for each new target, making it particularly suitable for accessible surface markers that are rare or understudied. In the PDPN model system tested here, the protocol enabled enrichment of the target subpopulation with high post-sort PDPN positivity and preserved CCK-8-based proliferation/metabolic activity compared with unsorted MSCs.
Fascia has recently been identified as a primary source of wound fibroblasts and scar tissue in deep wound healing models, highlighting the need to explore fascia-centric mechanisms for regenerative therapy. This study aims to systematically evaluate the role of ion channels in fascia contraction and fibroblast activation and their impact on wound healing to identify potential ion channel-targeting compounds that promote scar-reducing healing. We screened a library of 314 ion channel-targeting compounds using live fascia explants undergoing contraction. Hits were further verified by assessing their effects on fascia fibroblast differentiation into proinflammatory (PDPN+) and myofibroblast (RUNX2+) states. RNA sequencing of sorted CD26+ fascia fibroblasts was used to explore downstream regulatory pathways. Finally, therapeutic candidates were tested in a full-thickness excisional wound model in mice. We identified 7 ion channel types with potential therapeutic effects, along with 19 ion channel types and associated pathways showing no effect on fibroblast differentiation. Notably, tariquidar, terfenadine, and zinc pyrithione inhibited the transition from proinflammatory fibroblasts to proto-myofibroblasts. Among them, zinc pyrithione significantly reduced scar formation in vivo. This study provides a functional map of 26 ion channel types in fascia fibroblasts and reveals promising modulators that may advance scar-reducing therapies for deep wound healing.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Circadian clocks underlie daily rhythms in physiology by coordinating temporal patterns of gene expression and protein function throughout the body. At the core of this system in mammals is CLOCK/BMAL1, a ubiquitously expressed heterodimeric transcription factor complex that orchestrates tissue-specific circadian gene expression. The basis for this specificity remains unclear, but tissue-specific interactions at chromatin could provide one. Here we used chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled to mass spectrometry to map CLOCK/BMAL1-associated protein complexes on chromatin in mouse liver, kidney and lung. We detected 1,510 associated proteins, most of which were tissue-specific and not explained by protein abundance. Among these, we identified the homeodomain transcription factors PROX1, HNF1B and HOXA5 as tissue-enriched interactors that bind BMAL1, co-occupy most BMAL1 genomic sites and establish organ-restricted circadian transcription. Our findings demonstrate that tissue-specific transcription factors confer cellular identity on the core clock, thereby contributing to organ-specific patterns of rhythmic gene expression.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) is a key regulator of cellular adaptation to reduced oxygen availability. Chronic intermittent hypoxia (CIH), characterized by recurrent cycles of hypoxia and reoxygenation, promotes oxidative stress and activates hypoxia-sensitive signaling pathways involved in ventilatory control. Luteolin-7-O-glucoside (luteolin), a flavonoid with antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, has been proposed as a potential modulator of HIF activity. This study evaluated the effects of a 7-day luteolin treatment on the ventilatory pattern and brainstem HIF expression in mice exposed to CIH, a model that mimics a hallmark feature of obstructive sleep apnea. Ventilation was assessed by whole-body plethysmography under baseline normoxic conditions and during an acute hypoxic challenge. Functional assessments revealed that luteolin administration significantly altered the baseline respiratory pattern, increasing the occurrence of apneas during baseline normoxic breathing in both the normoxic and CIH groups. Under baseline conditions, luteolin-treated CIH animals also exhibited a reduced respiratory frequency and an increased tidal volume, without significant changes in minute ventilation. Despite these alterations in baseline breathing, Luteolin treatment did not alter the acute hypoxic ventilatory response (HVR) in either experimental group. To investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying these ventilatory effects, brainstem analysis was performed. Luteolin treatment (10 μg/kg) reduced Hif1a and Epas1 mRNA expression in the brainstem and decreased the number of neurons exhibiting HIF-1α nuclear immunofluorescence within the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS). Additionally, luteolin reduced Nox4 expression in the brainstem while elevating nitrite levels, suggesting a direct modulation of redox-related pathways. Together, these findings indicate that luteolin alters the baseline respiratory pattern by increasing apnea occurrence in both normoxia and CIH groups under baseline normoxic conditions, an effect potentially linked to the downregulation of brainstem HIF expression and the modulation of local redox state, while the acute ventilatory response to hypoxia remains preserved.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Secondary lymphedema, characterized by localized tissue swelling caused by lymphatic damage or dysfunction, remains a major clinical challenge that compromises quality of life. Current physical therapies provide only temporary relief, underscoring the need for effective regenerative strategies. Here, we report the fabrication of a micropatterned, small-diameter fibrous artificial lymphatic vessel incorporating hyaluronic acid (HA) via electrospinning to enhance lymphatic fluid transport. The engineered scaffold exhibits optimized mechanical properties and elicits favorable cellular responses through HA-mediated biochemical cues. Lymphatic endothelial cells (LEC) cultured on the scaffold show increased expression of lymphangiogenesis-related markers, including Prox1 and LYVE-1, accompanied by AKT activation and increased VEGF-C/VEGFR3-associated marker expression. The topographical features of the scaffold were also associated with altered YAP localization and increased lymphatic endothelial marker expression. In vivo implantation of the scaffold in a rat lymphedema model reduced ankle swelling and lymphatic retention across the surgically disrupted region toward an anatomically preserved drainage basin. Collectively, these findings suggest that HA-integrated fibrous lymphatic scaffolds represent a promising strategy for lymphedema treatment by synergistically engaging biochemical and biomechanical pathways associated with lymphatic repair and functional fluid transport.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Chiari malformation type 1 (CM1) is a neurological disorder characterized by cerebellar tonsil herniation. While nuclear DNA has been associated with craniovertebral development, the role of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) remains unclear. This study investigated nuclear DNA variants (PAX1, EPAS1, DKK1, GDF6) and mtDNA D-loop mutations in CM1 patients from East Coast Malaysia.Sixty-eight participants were enrolled, comprising 38 CM1 patients and 30 controls. Genomic DNA from peripheral blood was analyzed by polymerase chain reaction amplification and Sanger sequencing. Associations between genetic variants and clinicopathological parameters (age, sex, tonsillar herniation, syringomyelia) were assessed using chi-square or Fisher's exact test.Four nuclear DNA variants were identified, comprising a synonymous PAX1 mutation (c.555G>A, p.K185K) and intronic changes in EPAS1 (c.1035-7C>G), DKK1 (c.548-3T>C), and GDF6 (c.406+112T>C), none of which exhibited significant associations with clinicopathological characteristics. In contrast, mtDNA analysis revealed that 50% of CM1 patients (n = 30) harbored D-loop mutations, predominantly T>C or G>A transitions, including 18 novel variants. Mutation frequency was significantly higher in patients with more severe tonsillar herniation (>10 mm) (OR = 28.570; 95% CI: 3.080-250.000; P < .001) and in those with syringomyelia (OR = 7.792; 95% CI: 1.782-34.060; P = .007), while no significant associations were observed with age or sex.Nuclear DNA variants may function as genetic modifiers without significant clinical impact. Conversely, mtDNA D-loop mutations were prevalent and correlated with disease severity, suggesting a contributory role in CM1 pathogenesis and warranting further investigation of mitochondrial genetic factors. Cite this article as: Rosdi SNM, Mohamed Yusoff AA. Nuclear and mitochondrial DNA variants in Chiari malformation type 1: insights from an east coast Malaysian cohort. Eurasian J Med. 2026, 58(4), 1209, doi: 10.5152/eurasianjmed.2026.251209.
Lacteal motion can be visualized in vivo, but quantitative analysis remains difficult because intravital intestinal imaging is affected by motion, focal instability, and baseline fluorescence variability.We developed an intravital imaging workflow for quantitative analysis of lacteal contractility in Prox1-EGFP rats. Lacteals were segmented by region-of-interest analysis, and fluorescence signals were extracted frame by frame. Signals were normalized as percent deviation from mean clip intensity. Contractility was assessed from normalized traces, with acetylcholine used as a positive control. Matched 30 and 10 s analysis windows were compared.Mean-normalized signals provided a more comparable readout than raw intensity across clips acquired under variable intravital conditions. The workflow detected the expected increase in lacteal contractile behavior after acetylcholine in paired experiments and resolved progressive augmentation in a serial time-course experiment. Compared with 10 s analysis, 30 s recordings yielded a more coherent and interpretable amplitude-based readout.This study establishes a practical intravital workflow for quantifying lacteal contractility in vivo and defines key analytical considerations for live intestinal imaging, including normalization strategy, window selection, and image-quality control.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42516068
Systemic hypoxia influences the state of the intestinal epithelial barrier and the microbiome; however, the role of the initial tolerance of the organism to oxygen deficiency in the development of these changes remains poorly studied. The aim of the study was to evaluate the colon histophysiological features and the gut microbiome in rats that were tolerant and susceptible to hypoxia under intermittent hypoxic exposure of varying severity. In male Wistar rats, tolerance to oxygen deficiency was determined according to the Hif1a, Epas1, and Hif3a expression levels in peripheral blood leukocytes, after which they were subjected to intermittent hypoxic exposure at an "altitude" of 5000 m or 7000 m for 1 h daily for 21 days. Subsequently, the state of the intestinal epithelial barrier was assessed using histological, histochemical, and immunohistochemical methods, and the microbiota composition was analyzed by PCR. Under normoxic conditions, in comparison with rats that are tolerant to hypoxia, susceptible animals demonstrated a greater volume fraction of goblet cells and a low abundance of Parabacteroides spp. Intermittent hypoxic exposure induced multidirectional changes depending on the initial tolerance and the severity of the regimen. In tolerant-to-hypoxia animals, an increase in the goblet cells volume fraction was detected after the exposure at the 5000 m "altitude", while at an "altitude" of 7000 m, a decrease in the number of cells in the lamina propria of the mucosa and Clostridium perfringens gr. abundance, as well as a reduction in the Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio, was observed. In susceptible-to-hypoxia animals, a higher abundance of Clostridium perfringens gr. in comparison with tolerant rats was revealed after the exposure at an "altitude" of 7000 m, with no structural changes in the intestinal wall. Thus, intermittent hypoxic exposure led to a rearrangement of the gut microbiome and the morphofunctional characteristics of the intestinal barrier, and the severity of these changes depended on the initial tolerance of the organism to oxygen deficiency and the severity of the hypoxic regime, which should be taken into account when conducting biomedical research.
Tubal infertility is one of the major causes of female infertility. This study aimed to investigate the mechanism of action of tubal patency decoction (TPD) and its active ingredient β-sitosterol on tubal infertility.The active ingredients of TPD and their potential targets were obtained from the TCMSP and Batman-TCM databases. The GeneCards, NCBI, and OMIM databases provided the targets associated with tubal infertility. The relationship between the components of TPD and the potential targets of tubal infertility was analyzed by String database and Cytoscape 3.8.0 software. The composition of the compounds in TPD was examined by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) assay. The effects of TPD and β-sitosterol on tubal infertility were verified by establishing a rat model of tubal infertility and a model of tubal epithelial cell inflammation.By network pharmacological analysis, we screened 139 active ingredients of TPD, covering 523 targets, of which 34 were related to tubal infertility. β-sitosterol was identified as an important active compound. Progesterone receptor (PGR) was considered the main target of TPD and β-sitosterol in tubal infertility. Molecular docking and drug affinity responsive target stability (DARTS) assays showed that PGR binds to β-sitosterol. The results of cellular experiments confirmed that β-sitosterol and TPD-containing serum increased the cell viability of LPS-induced tubal epithelial cells, decreased the levels of inflammatory factors (IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-α) and myeloperoxidase (MPO), and increased the frequency of ciliary beating. The results of in vivo experiments showed that both TPD and β-sitosterol improved the conception rate and live births in tubal infertile rats and attenuated tubal inflammation and epithelial cell damage. They increased the expression of RFX2, RFX3, and FOXJ1. Silencing PGR reversed the effect of β-sitosterol on tubal epithelial cells and tubal infertile rats.TPD and its active ingredient β-sitosterol may improve tubal infertility through PGR. These results provide a new basis for the development and application of TPD and its active ingredient β-sitosterol.Copyright © 2026 Liang Shao et al. Mediators of Inflammation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42503878
Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 (VEGFR2) is a key target for regulating the endothelial cell lineage and angiogenesis. It is also expressed by lymphatic endothelial cells (LECs) while its participation in lymphangiogenesis remains inadequately characterized. We demonstrate in this study that VEGFR2 is highly expressed in dermal initial lymphatic vessels and valves. The induced deletion of pan-endothelial Vegfr2 at the neonatal stage produced a potent suppression of dermal lymphatic growth, characterized by a thinner lymphatic diameter, a decreased number of LECs and lymphatic valves. Mechanistically, VEGFR2 insufficiency led to a dramatic decrease in lymphatic VEGFR3, a key regulator mediating signals for lymphatic growth and remodeling. RNA sequencing analysis revealed that GO terms enriched for downregulated genes included biological processes related to EC development while pathways related to hematopoiesis and immune responses were upregulated in the skin of Vegfr2 mutants compared with littermate controls. This was further confirmed by RNA-seq analysis of dermal tissues 48 h after endothelial Vegfr2 deletion. Consistently, targeting Vegfr2 in PROX1+ cells produced an inhibitory effect on dermal lymphatic growth and recapitulated a similar altered transcriptomic signature. The alteration of lymphatic gene expression was further validated by siRNA-mediated Vegfr2 knockdown in primary LECs, showing a transcriptional trend toward a hematopoietic fate. Findings from this study imply that VEGFR2 is required for the maintenance of endothelial identity, and its insufficiency triggers a transcriptional reprogramming that diminishes VEGFR3-mediated lymphangiogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Mutations in STRA6, the high-affinity receptor for retinol-binding protein, cause Matthew-Wood syndrome, a congenital disorder characterized by striking phenotypic variability ranging from isolated ocular anomalies to severe multisystem malformations. The mechanisms underlying this variable expressivity and incomplete penetrance remain poorly understood. Here, we used mice to determine how maternal vitamin A status and embryonic Stra6 genotype interact to shape ocular development. Using Stra6-deficient mice bred under defined dietary conditions, we demonstrate that maternal vitamin A availability is a major modifier of phenotypic outcome. Maternal vitamin A restriction resulted in microphthalmia and markedly reduced postnatal survival of the offspring. Remarkably, offspring of Stra6-/- dams maintained on a vitamin A-sufficient diet, corresponding to the recommended dietary allowance for mice, also developed pronounced ocular abnormalities, including retinal dysplasia and impaired rod and cone opsin differentiation. In contrast, supraphysiological maternal vitamin A intake, as provided by a standard chow, partially rescued ocular development and produced near-normal eye morphology in the offspring. Strikingly, heterozygous Stra6+/- offspring born to Stra6-/- dams were protected from both lethality and ocular malformations despite maternal STRA6 deficiency and dietary vitamin A restriction. Biochemical analyses revealed that ocular retinoid availability strictly depended on the Stra6 genotype of the offspring, whereas some circulating retinol remained detectable even under maternal vitamin A deficiency. Together, these findings identify a gene-nutrient interaction that explains the variable expressivity of STRA6-associated disease and establish maternal vitamin A status as a critical determinant of ocular development and postnatal survival.
Planar cell polarity (PCP) coordinates collective cell polarity along a tissue plane through the asymmetric localization of junctional complexes comprised of core transmembrane proteins: Celsr1, Fz6, and Vangl2. Basal cells of embryonic mouse epidermis undergo numerous cell divisions to support the developing tissue while also maintaining tissue-level polarity. To achieve this, junctional PCP complexes are selectively co-internalized by the dividing cell, facilitating the restoration of tissue polarity upon mitotic exit. In Celsr1 Crsh/Crsh epidermis, we identify aberrant mitotic internalization of Celsr1 and Fz6, and a failure to co-internalize Vangl2. Mixed-cell in vitro assays reveal Crsh is deficient in mediating trans-endocytosis of Celsr1 and Vangl2. These defects are rescued through forced dimerization of Crsh, supporting the hypothesis that Celsr1 adhesive interactions stabilized by cis-dimers are required for both PCP establishment and maintenance via trans-endocytosis of PCP complexes. Overall, these findings establish a Celsr1 dimerization-dependent mechanism for control of tissue polarity during cell division.© 2026 The Author(s).
Stimulated by retinoic acid 6 (STRA6) is widely recognized for its roles in the pathogenesis and progression of multiple cancers. However, its biological functions and molecular mechanisms in rectal cancer (RC) remain poorly understood. This study aims to elucidate the functional roles of STRA6 and investigate the mechanisms underlying its dysregulation in RC.We employed RNA-seq to identify differentially expressed genes. STRA6 expression levels and activation of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway in RC were assessed using reverse transcription-quantitative PCR and Western blotting. Functional implications of these genes were investigated through a series of assays, such as CCK-8, flow cytometry and transwell assays. Potential upstream transcription factors regulating STRA6 were predicted bioinformatically and validated using a dual-luciferase reporter assay. Finally, the in vivo relevance of these findings was evaluated in a xenograft mouse model.A marked increase in STRA6 and One cut domain family member 2 (ONECUT2) expression was observed in RC tissues, with particularly elevated levels detected in radiation -resistant RC tissues. Functionally, STRA6 overexpression enhanced RC cell proliferation, migration and invasion, while reducing apoptosis. Rescue experiments demonstrated that the oncogenic effects of ONECUT2 were partially reversed upon STRA6 knockdown. Mechanistically, ONECUT2 was identified as a transcription factor that binds directly to the STRA6 promoter and upregulates its expression, thereby activating the Wnt/β-catenin pathway to facilitate RC progression and radiation resistance.ONECUT2/STRA6 axis exerts an oncogenic function in RC through activation of Wnt/β-catenin pathway, suggesting its potential as a therapeutic target.STRA6 is widely recognized for its roles in the pathogenesis and progression of multiple cancers. but its role in rectal cancer (RC) remains unclear. This study clarified STRA6's function in RC and identified ONECUT2 as its upstream transcription factor regulating the Wnt/β-catenin pathway to facilitate RC progression and radiation resistance. The findings provide novel insights into the prognostic and functional role of STRA6 in RC and underscore its potential as a promising therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Invasive somatotroph pituitary neuroendocrine tumors (PitNETs) exhibit poor clinical outcomes due to frequent recurrence and treatment resistance. The molecular mechanisms underlying their invasiveness remain incompletely understood. Cathepsin Z (CTSZ), a lysosomal protease highly expressed in tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), promotes malignancy in various cancers. Our prior proteomics identified CTSZ overexpression in invasive somatotroph PitNETs correlating with adverse prognosis. This study aims to elucidate the mechanistic role of CTSZ in promoting tumor invasiveness and its interaction with TAMs.Multiplex immunofluorescence determined CTSZ distribution in human somatotroph PitNET tissues. Functional assessment employed macrophage-conditioned medium co-culture with GH3 cells to evaluate proliferation, hormone secretion, and morphological changes. Mechanistic investigations were conducted through integrated transcriptomic profiling (RNA-seq) followed by targeted validation of identified pathways using RT-qPCR and Western blot analyses. Recombinant CTSZ protein was used to assess the direct effects of CTSZ on GH3 cells.Pan-cancer data analysis revealed that CTSZ expression correlates with macrophage infiltration across multiple human cancers, providing exploratory background for this study. In somatotroph PitNETs, CTSZ expression co-localized with CD68+ macrophages and showed a positive correlation with the M2-like macrophage marker CD163 (R2 = 0.422, P = 0.036). In vitro, treatment with Raw264.7 macrophages-conditioned medium induced morphological alterations and enhanced the proliferative, migratory, and invasive capacities, as well as GH secretion, of GH3 cells. However, recombinant CTSZ protein alone did not significantly affect GH3 cell proliferation or GH secretion. Macrophage-derived factors reduced autolysosome abundance and downregulated LC3-II expression, indicating modulated autophagic activity. Mechanistically, RNA-sequencing analysis suggested the involvement of the transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) signaling pathway. Specifically, downregulation of Decorin (Dcn) attenuated its inhibitory effect on Tgf-β1, while reduced expression of the cell cycle inhibitor p15 released its suppression of cyclin-dependent kinase 4 (Cdk4), collectively promoting tumor progression.Macrophage-secreted effector molecules collectively drive somatotroph PitNET progression through coordinated regulation of autophagy and TGF-β signaling. Although recombinant CTSZ alone did not directly enhance GH3 cell proliferation or GH secretion, CTSZ serves as a macrophage-associated marker of invasiveness. These findings reveal the macrophage-tumor microenvironment as a potential therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Hexafluoropropylene oxide dimer acid (GenX), an emerging per- and polyfluoroalkyl substance (PFAS) detected in environmental matrices and drinking water sources, raises significant environmental health concerns due to its persistence and potential toxicity. This study investigated the hepatotoxic mechanisms of GenX through multi-omics approaches using in vivo (zebrafish) and in vitro (HepG2 cells) models. Environmentally relevant GenX exposure induced dose-dependent increases of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), total cholesterol (TC), and triacylglycerol (TAG), accompanied by hepatic histopathological damage. Multi-omics analyses revealed that GenX disrupted hepatic lipid homeostasis by activating de novo lipogenesis (DNL) and TAG biosynthesis pathways, with retinol binding protein 4 (RBP4) identified as a critical molecular mediator. Mechanistically, GenX may trigger downstream signaling by enhancing the RBP4-STRA6 interaction, promoting excessive fatty acid synthesis and subsequent hepatic lipid accumulation. Genetic inhibition of RBP4 attenuated GenX-induced lipid deposition. Overall, our findings elucidate a novel RBP4-mediated mechanism underlying GenX-driven hepatotoxicity and provide critical insights into the health implications of PFAS alternatives.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The tumor microenvironment (TME), especially tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), plays a critical role in prostate cancer (PCa) progression. Cathepsin Z (CTSZ) is a lysosomal protease implicated in various malignancies, but its specific function and mechanism within the PCa-associated TAMs remain largely unexplored.We analyzed single-cell RNA sequencing data (GSE141445, GSE137829) to identify CTSZ expression patterns. Its role in macrophage polarization was validated by immunofluorescence co-localization in human PCa tissues and in vitro experiments (qPCR, Western blot, flow cytometry) using THP-1-derived macrophages overexpressing CTSZ. The effects of CTSZ-polarized macrophages on PCa cell (PC3) malignant behaviors (proliferation, migration, and invasion) were evaluated in vitro using EdU, CCK-8, colony formation, scratch, and Transwell assays, and their functions were assessed in vivo through orthotopic and lung metastasis models. RNA sequencing of treated tumor cells was conducted to identify downstream pathways. Mechanistic insights were obtained using CTSZ-neutralizing antibodies, recombinant CTSZ protein, and the αVβ3 integrin inhibitor Cilengitide (Cyclo), followed by western blot, co-immunoprecipitation, and dual-luciferase reporter assays.CTSZ was predominantly highly expressed in macrophages of PCa tissues. Overexpression of CTSZ in macrophages promoted M2 polarization, as evidenced by increased CD163 and decreased CD86/iNOS expression. Conditioned medium from OE-CTSZ macrophages significantly enhanced PCa cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, and promoted tumor growth and metastasis in mouse models. RNA sequencing revealed significant enrichment in the TNF signaling pathway and marked downregulation of JUNB. Mechanistically, macrophage-derived CTSZ bound to the αVβ3 integrin receptor on tumor cells, activating the AKT/FOXO1 signaling axis, leading to phosphorylation of FOXO1 and subsequent transcriptional repression of JUNB. These pro-tumorigenic effects were effectively reversed by either a CTSZ-neutralizing antibody or the αVβ3 inhibitor.Our study identifies a novel pathway in which macrophage-derived CTSZ promotes PCa progression by driving M2 macrophage polarization and directly activating the αVβ3/AKT/FOXO1 axis in tumor cells, ultimately leading to JUNB downregulation. Targeting the CTSZ/αVβ3 axis may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for PCa treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Intense fishing pressure can drive rapid evolution in wild populations, yet the underlying genomic mechanisms often remain elusive. Here, we investigate the genomic consequences of five decades of intense harvesting on the cichlid fish Copadichromis mloto in Lake Malombe, Malawi. By comparing whole-genome data from almost 200 individuals from the heavily fished Lake Malombe with less-fished populations in Lake Malawi, we identified a widespread signal of recent, population-specific positive selection. This genomic footprint, spanning hundreds of loci, is consistent with a rapid, polygenic adaptive response. The candidate genes under selection were significantly enriched for high-level developmental processes, including neurogenesis and the formation of the heart and muscle, providing a plausible mechanistic link to the dramatic reduction in size and age at maturity observed in this population. Furthermore, our strongest candidate loci include genes with known roles in controlling somatic growth (zdhhc13, myh7, csrp3, gnb1l) and reproductive timing (mpped2a, kitlga, kat6a, stra6). We also found that candidate genes were nearly five-fold more likely to be differentially expressed in male gonad tissue, providing a strong link between selection and regulatory changes in a key reproductive organ. Our findings point towards a polygenic basis for fisheries-induced evolution in this tropical system and highlight how intense harvesting can rapidly reshape the genetic architecture of complex life-history traits, with important implications for the long-term resilience of exploited fish stocks.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Ecology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Obesity is a global health crisis affecting millions, associated with metabolic disorders such as type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Calebin-A, a bioactive compound derived from Curcuma species, has shown promise in managing obesity and its complications. This study utilized bioinformatics tools to explore the molecular mechanisms of Calebin-A in obesity. Transcriptomic data from obese and normal omental adipose tissue (GSE286454) were analysed, identifying 317 differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Functional enrichment analysis indicated a notable engagement of lysosomal activity, immune response, cell migration, axon guidance and apoptosis pathways. A STRING-based protein-protein interaction network revealed nine hub genes through a composite centrality score. Among these, CTSB, CTSZ, CTSA, GRN and TUBB exhibited upregulation and were prioritized for subsequent analysis. External validation (GSE59034; 16 obese vs. 16 controls) corroborated the consistent upregulation of CTSB, CTSZ, GRN and CTSA. Target prediction analysis identified 443 potential targets for Calebin-A, with pathway-level overlap suggesting a convergence on immune, lysosomal and cytoskeletal processes. Molecular docking studies indicated favourable binding affinities (-5.2 to -7.1 kcal/mol), with CTSZ demonstrating the most robust interaction. A 100 ns molecular dynamics simulation validated structural stability and indicated favourable binding free energy (MM-PBSA ΔG ≈ -110 kJ/mol). Results suggest that Calebin-A targets genes and proteins involved in energy balance and inflammation, offering insights into its anti-obesity potential. These findings provide a foundation for experimental validation and therapeutic development.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Although recognized as a key regulator of gastrointestinal tissues, Wnt signaling pathway function in the stomach is poorly understood. This study aimed to define Wnt functions and identify Wnt-regulated genes in the stomach. Reporter mouse analysis localized Wnt signaling to the base and proliferative region in both the corpus and the antrum. Canonical Wnt inhibition in vivo using Sox2-CreERT2; Ctnnb1fl/fl mice reduced epithelial cell proliferation with loss of gastric stem cells. Wnt-regulated genes and potential effector pathways were studied by bulk RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) analysis of corpus and antral organoids 24 h after Wnt inhibition in vitro. Cell signature analysis revealed that gastric organoids adopt a surface cell transcriptional profile following Wnt inhibition instead of a basal cell profile. Furthermore, retinoid metabolism terms were differentially expressed after Wnt inhibition, with decreased expression of retinoic acid target genes. Inhibition of retinoic acid signaling in corpus and antral organoids showed a marked increase in surface cell marker expression, consistent with the effects of Wnt inhibition. In the mouse, immunostaining showed differential localization of retinoid metabolic components in luminal pit cells (ALDH3A1) and basal chief/deep mucous cells (STRA6), with expression changes after β-catenin deletion in Sox2-CreERT2; Ctnnb1fl/fl mice, consistent with the Wnt-regulated cell fate changes observed in organoids. Together, these studies showed that Wnt signaling is required for gastric stem cell survival and promotes differentiation of cell types at the gland base. We identified retinoid metabolism as a candidate Wnt-regulated pathway, with cell-specific expression of key components, and regulation of surface cell marker expression by retinoic acid signaling.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Using mouse genetic and organoid models, we show that canonical Wnt signaling promotes gastric epithelial cell proliferation and regulates differentiation along the base-lumen gland axis in the stomach. Transcription profiling of Wnt-inhibited gastric organoids identified retinoic acid signaling as a potential Wnt-regulated effector pathway in the stomach. Accordingly, manipulation of retinoic acid signaling in organoids altered differentiated marker expression consistent with Wnt inhibition, supporting the presence of a Wnt-retinoic acid signaling axis in the stomach.
Glioblastoma (GBM) remains one of the most aggressive and therapy-resistant malignancies of the central nervous system, with anoikis resistance emerging as a critical facilitator of tumor invasion and therapeutic failure. In this study, we identified cathepsin Z (CTSZ) as a pivotal regulator of anoikis resistance in GBM. Clinical data revealed significant elevation of CTSZ levels in GBM tissues, with its expression strongly correlating with adverse patient outcomes. Through comprehensive functional analysis, we determined that genetic knockdown of CTSZ substantially increased anoikis sensitivity in GBM cells while simultaneously attenuating multiple oncogenic characteristics. Mechanistically, we established that CTSZ-mediated anoikis resistance enhanced multiple malignant traits of GBM by activating nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) signaling, as evidenced by the impaired nuclear translocation of p65 following CTSZ-knockdown. Our findings collectively position the CTSZ/NF-κB axis as a crucial determinant of GBM pathogenesis and highlight CTSZ as a potential therapeutic target for this devastating disease.© 2026 Published by Elsevier Inc.
Cribriform (Crib) acinar adenocarcinoma (AAC), intraductal carcinoma of the prostate (IDC-P), atypical intraductal proliferation (AIP) and ductal adenocarcinoma (DAC) are linked to poor outcomes in prostate cancer (PCa). We analyzed their gene expression using spatial transcriptomics.A tissue microarray of 18 FFPE cores from 17 prostatectomies was profiled for expression of 18,676 mRNAs with the Bruker GeoMx Digital Spatial Profiler platform. 53 areas of interest were selected based on H&E, PIN4 IHC and fluorescence markers. Gene set enrichment analysis was conducted for Reactome gene sets.Most patients had grade group ≥3 (94%) and ≥pT3 disease (65%). At a median follow-up of 47 months (range, 18-130), 31% developed metastases. 16 tumors showed mixed morphology. 3 DACs had adjacent intraductal components with preserved basal cells (ductal IDC-P). 9/10 acinar IDC-P and 6/7 AIP presumably represented intraductal spread (invasive type); one was mostly non-invasive (95% IDC-P/AIP, putative precursor type). Crib AAC, acinar IDC-P, and AIP demonstrated substantial transcriptomic similarity, with only 4 differentially expressed genes between acinar IDC-P and crib AAC and between acinar IDC-P and AIP. Crib AAC exhibited Notch signaling and homologous recombination DNA repair enrichment versus low-grade AAC. Acinar IDC-P upregulated GADD45G/ERRFI1 and downregulated CCN3/TMEFF2, with reduced PKN1-mediated androgen receptor signaling versus crib AAC. AIP showed reduced GPCR signaling versus IDC-P and crib AAC. Acinar IDC-P upregulated TSPAN8/CA4, and downregulated TRPM8/DHCR24 versus AIP. Putative precursor-type IDC-P/AIP downregulated oncogenic and stemness programs versus invasive type. DAC was transcriptomically more similar to crib AAC than to non-crib AAC. Ductal IDC-P downregulated luminal epithelial programs, and upregulated antigen presentation/immune signaling versus DAC.Crib AAC, acinar IDC-P, and AIP demonstrated substantial transcriptomic similarity despite distinct differences. DAC showed greater transcriptomic similarity to crib AAC than to non-crib AAC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Studies have shown that all men who die from prostate cancer exhibit bone involvement, highlighting the clinical significance of bone metastases. Previously, we demonstrated that prostate cancer exhibits elevated expression of FOXI3; a transcription factor critical to bone development. However, its functional role in prostate cancer progression remains unexplored. In this study, we explored FOXI3 expression in human prostate cancer tissues and cell lines. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed a significant association between FOXI3 expression, tumor pathology, and increasing tumor grade. Analysis of publicly available gene expression data from prostate cancer patients showed that FOXI3 is markedly elevated in bone metastases and strongly correlates with FGF8, suggesting a potential bone-specific regulatory interaction between these factors. Consistent with this, treatment of bone-derived prostate cancer cells with FGF8 increased FOXI3 RNA expression, whereas no such effect was observed in a brain-metastatic cell line. Further, we demonstrated that the FGF8-FOXI3 axis regulates bone-derived prostate cancer cell migration and proliferation in a FOXI3 dependent manner. Together, our findings demonstrate a pro-metastatic role of FOXI3 in prostate cancer progression.Copyright © 2026 Mukherjee, Hollern, Byrd, Rayburn, Williams, Knight, Yates and Jones.
Understanding how genetic variants influence disease risk through molecular mechanisms remains a central challenge in complex disease genetics. Nonsyndromic orofacial clefts (OFCs) exemplify this challenge, with most risk loci residing in non-coding regions. We hypothesized that common genetic variants influence OFC risk by modulating DNA methylation at regulatory elements through methylation quantitative trait loci (meQTLs). We analyzed 10 OFC-associated SNPs against genome-wide DNA methylation profiles in 409 cases and 456 controls, identifying 23 potential meQTLs. Findings were validated using 358 cleft-discordant sibling pairs with MethyLight assays. We performed formal mediation analysis, genotype-tissue interaction and cross-referenced with the mQTL Database to assess developmental timing. Nine meQTLs were validated, including rs987525 (8q24)-cg16561172 (MYC) (P = 9.6 × 10⁻⁶), which mapped to a mesendoderm-active enhancer upstream of MYC. Genotype × tissue interaction confirmed tissue-specificity (P = 1.00 × 10- 3), with stronger effects in oral-derived tissue (saliva). Additional validated SNP-CpG associations involved MAFB-PLCG1, NOG-PPM1E, FOXE1-FRZB, and SPRY2-LGR4. While effect sizes correlated between tissues (r = 0.81), formal mediation analysis indicated individual CpG sites do not fully mediate SNP-phenotype relationships, suggesting coordinated epigenetic mechanisms. Most associations showed peak effects during childhood, while 8q24 showed unique adult-specific patterns. We identified genetic variants influencing methylation at craniofacial regulatory elements, and provided a mechanistic link for a major risk locus, 8q24, with tissue-specific effects in saliva. While individual CpG sites did not fully mediate the genetic risk, our findings identified specific regulatory regions where coordinated epigenetic changes may contribute to OFC susceptibility.© 2026. The Author(s).
Patterning of mammalian endoderm into lung and thyroid lineages depends upon a correct early expression of a homeobox domain-containing transcription factor, Nkx2-1. However, the gene networks distinguishing the differentiation of those lineages remain largely unknown. In this work, by using mouse stem cell lines, scRNA-seq, and transcriptomic and chromatin accessibility profiling, we show that Foxe1 knockout impairs Nkx2-1+ cell differentiation and maturation into thyroid follicular-like cells. Concomitantly, a subset of Foxe1 null/Nkx2-1+ cells follows a lung epithelial differentiation program and form lung-like organoids harboring cells transcriptionally similar to mouse fetal lung types. Chromatin analyses reveal that, while accessibility at the Pax8 locus is reduced, loci associated with lung programs are in an open configuration, indicating that lung fate can be adopted without additional chromatin remodeling. These findings demonstrate that Foxe1 loss destabilizes thyroid commitment but also creates a permissive state in which Nkx2-1+ foregut progenitors can adopt an alternative lung fate. Our study illustrates how the interplay between transcription factors and chromatin context governs lineage decisions in vitro and provides a platform to investigate mechanisms underlying organ specification and plasticity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Feline alimentary lymphoma encompasses a diverse group of neoplastic subtypes, each presumably arising from distinct cell populations and exhibiting significant variability in biological behaviour and prognosis. Whilst next-generation sequencing technologies have become a more common aid in the diagnosis, prognostication and treatment of lymphoma in humans, these techniques have been sparsely applied to investigate feline alimentary lymphoma. Specifically, current research in this field is mostly focused on differentiating indolent intestinal lymphomas from inflammatory enteropathies. The aim of the study was to apply transcriptomic analysis to identify differentially expressed genes that may correlate with the aggressiveness of various subtypes of feline alimentary lymphoma. Differential gene analysis was applied to RNA sequencing data from 19 cases of feline alimentary lymphoma split into five phenotypes (small T cell, B cell, CD56+ B cell, Large Granular T cell and Large Granular NK cell lymphomas) according to histomorphology and immunohistochemistry. The analysis identified overexpression of several genes involved in extracellular matrix remodelling, transcription factor expression and cellular division, signalling and metabolism in aggressive lymphoma types (ADAMTS14, ADAMTSl2, FOXI3, ELAVL2, CCR1, GCGR, NMUR1, MARC1, SLC29A4, CENPF, IGF2BP3); and overexpression of several tumour suppressor genes in the indolent lymphoma type (RAB17, SYNPO2, GRM4). The differential expression correlated with biologic behaviours. Future investigation into expression of these genes or gene products using molecular, immunohistochemical or in-situ hybridisation techniques could yield significant advancements in the prognostication of feline alimentary lymphoma as well as pave the way for the development of targeted immunotherapeutic strategies to aid in the treatment of specific feline alimentary lymphoma subtypes.Copyright © 2026 McGilp, Roccabianca, Hulse, Allavena and Palmieri.
Chronic oral inflammation plays a crucial role in the malignant transformation of oral lichen planus (OLP) to oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). This study aims to identify the key molecular characteristics related to chronic inflammation, OLP and OSCC. Integrate the gene expression data set of chronic oral inflammation, OLP and OSCC to identify common differential expression genes (DEGs). Carry out functional enrichment, protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis, LASSO-logistic regression model, quantitative detection of inflammatory mediators and correlation analysis. It was verified in cell models and clinical tissue samples through real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Through comprehensive analysis, we have identified 13 differential expression genes (DEG), which are persistently dysfunctional in chronic inflammation, OLP and OSCC pathological states, among which PTGS2, PLAUR, ERRFI1 and ODC1 are particularly critical. Based on this, we have constructed a malignant transformation prediction model of PLAUR, ERRFI1 AND ODC1. The model showed excellent effectiveness in distinguishing disease states, with an area under the curve (AUC) reaching 0.93. qRT-PCR results show that compared with normal oral epithelial cells, PLAUR, ERRFI1 and ODC1 are significantly upre-regulated (P < 0.01 or P < 0.001) in immune-stimulated simulated inflammatory environments and OSCC cells, among which they are observed in immune-stimulated cells. To the highest level of expression. The inflammatory mediators TNF-α, IL-1 and IL-6 also showed a consistent upward trend in the above cell models (P < 0.05). Correlation analysis shows that the expression of these three key genes is significantly positively correlated with the concentration of TNF-α, IL-1 and IL-6. Clinical tissue sample verification showed that the expression of ODC1, PLAUR and ERRFI1 in the normal mucosa was significantly lower than that of OLP foci and OSCC tissue, and the expression in OLP was significantly lower than that of OSCC tissue (P < 0.05). Gene expression characteristics composed of genes such as PLAUR, ERRFI1 and ODC1 can shows promising predictive capability the risk of OLP malignancy and provide new potential targets for intervention treatment.AJCR Copyright © 2026.
This study aimed to identify invasion/metastasis-related differentially methylated genes (DMGs) with prognostic relevance in diffuse gliomas and to develop a DNA methylation-based risk model for prognostic stratification.Invasion/metastasis-related DMGs were identified by integrating gene expression and DNA methylation profiles from public glioma datasets. Prognostic DMGs were screened using univariate Cox regression and log-rank tests, and a risk model was constructed and evaluated by survival analysis and time-dependent receiver operating characteristic curves. Independent validation was performed in external cohorts. Functional enrichment, immune infiltration, mutation, and clinical correlation analyses were conducted. Key genes were functionally validated in T98G and U251 glioma cells.Twelve prognostic DMGs were identified, and two marker genes, ERRFI1 and MYO1G, were selected to construct the risk model. The model showed prognostic value in the training cohort and retained predictive performance across independent validation cohorts. Enrichment analyses linked the risk signature to adaptive immune and inflammatory responses. High-risk patients had worse overall survival (OS), altered immune infiltration, and increased immune checkpoint expression. Knockdown of ERRFI1 or MYO1G inhibited proliferation, invasion, and migration in T98G and U251 cells. Preliminary Western blot analysis suggested that ERRFI1 knockdown altered EGFR/MAPK/ERK pathway phosphorylation.This study identifies an invasion/metastasis-related DNA methylation signature based on ERRFI1 and MYO1G that may provide complementary prognostic information and biological insight for diffuse gliomas.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
EGFR alterations occur in a subset of biliary tract cancers (BTCs) and are often linked to disease progression and poor prognosis, yet targeted approaches remain underexplored. ERRFI1, encoding the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitor MIG6, is mutated in various cancers, including BTC, representing a potential predictive biomarker. We investigated whether loss of ERRFI1 function may enhance sensitivity to EGFR-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), presenting a potential therapeutic opportunity.This is a retrospective multicenter study of patients with BTC harboring ERRFI1 alterations. Data were extracted from electronic health records following institutional approval. ERRFI1 alterations were classified based on the alteration type, variant allele frequencies were documented, and coalterations were analyzed. Treatment outcomes including response, time to progression (TTP), overall survival (OS), safety profiles, and tumor marker kinetics were noted.Fourteen BTC patients with ERRFI1 mutations were identified in our database; the median age was 50 years, 64% were males; all cases were intrahepatic cholangiocarcinomas. Common coalterations included IDH1 (36%), TP53 (29%), and ARID1A (29%). All patients received gemcitabine-cisplatin as first-line treatment, and 79% received immune checkpoint inhibitors. Eight patients (57%) received EGFR TKIs. Best responses to EGFR therapy included three partial responses (2 responses lasting >20 months), four stable diseases, and one progressive disease. The median TTP was 7 months (95% CI, 6 to 21 months). Treatment was well-tolerated: toxicities included rash (n = 2), transaminitis (n = 1), and diarrhea (n = 1). The median OS was 20 months (95% CI: 8-36 months); 50% remained alive at last follow-up.ERRFI1 mutations represent actionable biomarkers in BTC, with EGFR-targeted therapy demonstrating meaningful clinical benefit in this heavily pretreated population. These findings support integration of ERRFI1 testing into routine molecular profiling of BTC and other EGFR-driven malignancies.
Severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) can be detected at birth through T-cell receptor excision circles (TREC) analysis in dried blood spots. This study summarizes the results of the consolidated SCID newborn screening (NBS) program in Catalonia (Spain) during the first seven years of program implementation (2017-2023).Newborns were screened for SCID using the EnLite Neonatal TREC assay (cut-off: 20 copies/μL), with confirmatory immunological and genetic testing performed in screen-positive cases. Definitive SCID diagnosis was established according to PIDTC-2022 definitions, while final diagnostic classification followed the recommendations provided by Blom et al.Among 420,263 screened newborns, 105 screened positive (0.02%). SCID was diagnosed in eight infants and congenital athymia in one, corresponding to an overall incidence of 1:46,753 live births. Identified genetic defects included RAG2 (n=3), PNP (n=1), IL2RG (n=2), DCLRE1C (n=1), and FOXI3 (n=1) (one case remained genetically undefined). Six patients underwent early hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, achieving favorable outcomes in five patients, with one death due to post-transplant complications. In addition, gene therapy (IL2RG, DCLRE1C) and thymic transplantation (FOXI3) resulted in successful outcomes in the three remaining patients. Overall and event-free survival reached 88%. Median age at diagnosis was 9 days and median age at initiation of definitive therapy was 3 months. In addition to SCID cases, 53 newborns were diagnosed with non-SCID T-cell lymphopenia (1:7,939), including syndromic, idiopathic, and reversible forms. During follow-up, patients with idiopathic T-cell lymphopenia did not develop significant infectious or autoimmune complications, except for one case of autoimmune neutropenia. Thirty-three cases were classified as false positives (0.008%).The Catalonian SCID newborn screening program demonstrated high clinical effectiveness, enabling early definitive treatment and excellent survival outcomes with a low false-positive burden. In addition, systematic follow-up of non-SCID T-cell lymphopenia identified through SCID screening appears warranted. These findings support the sustainability and clinical value of universal SCID screening programs.Copyright © 2026 Argudo-Ramírez, Martín-Nalda, Laguna, Riviere, González de Aledo-Castillo, López-Galera, Colobran, Batlle-Masó, Quintero, Martínez, Paredes-Fuentes, Perurena-Prieto, Alonso, Prats-Viedma, García-Villoria and Soler-Palacín.
Solute carrier family 23 member 1 (SLC23A1) encodes sodium-dependent vitamin C transporter 1, which mediates intestinal vitamin C absorption. Although SLC23A1 variants are associated with vitamin C bioavailability, their relationship with gut microbiome remains unexplored. We aimed to investigate the associations of SLC23A1 polymorphism with serum vitamin C status and gut microbial profiles in healthy Korean adults.We genotyped the SLC23A1 rs6596473 polymorphism in 257 healthy individuals (20-39 years) and measured their serum vitamin C concentrations, which were categorized as optimal (≥50 μM) or suboptimal (<50 μM). Logistic regression analysis was used to evaluate the association between genotypes and suboptimal serum vitamin C status after adjusting for covariates. A subset of 43 participants with suboptimal serum vitamin C status underwent gut microbiota analysis and serum short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) measurements. Microbial profiles and SCFA concentrations were compared across the genotypes.The genotype distributions were 92 CC, 131 CG, and 34 GG, with G as the minor allele. After covariate adjustment, GG carriers had higher odds of suboptimal serum vitamin C status than CC carriers (odds ratio = 2.65; p = 0.03). Among individuals with suboptimal serum vitamin C status, GG carriers (n = 7) exhibited distinct microbial community structures compared with CC (n = 13) and CG (n = 23) carriers, with elevated richness and evenness. GG carriers had higher abundances of Bifidobacterium (vs. CC, p < 0.01; vs. CG, p = 0.054) and Ruminococcaceae incertae sedis (all p < 0.05) compared with CC and CG carriers. In line with these microbial findings, GG carriers had higher propionate and butyrate concentrations than CC and CG carriers (all p < 0.05).The SLC23A1 rs6596473 variant was associated with reduced vitamin C absorption into systemic circulation in the overall population; however, among individuals with suboptimal serum vitamin C status, it was associated with beneficial gut microbial profiles. Our findings suggest that this genetic variant in the vitamin C transporter has complex health effects that extend beyond circulating vitamin C levels to gut microbial ecology, supporting the use of genotype-informed nutritional approaches.Clinical Research Information Services KCT0005074 (https://cris.nih.go.kr/cris/search/detailSearch.do?seq=16832&status=5&seq_group=16832&search_page=M) and KCT0004276 (https://cris.nih.go.kr/cris/search/detailSearch.do?seq=14590&status=5&seq_group=14590&search_page=M).Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd and European Society for Clinical Nutrition and Metabolism. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563962 is a review article
Pathogenic variants in the autoimmune regulator (AIRE) cause autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type 1 (APS-1), a rare primary immunodeficiency disease with symptoms including hypoparathyroidism, adrenal insufficiency, and chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis. AIRE increases the expression and presentation of tissue-specific genes expressing "self" antigens in the developing T cell niche, thus triggering the elimination of self-reactive T cells and preventing autoimmunity. Earlier diagnoses can benefit those with APS-1, and APS-1 diagnosis by AIRE sequencing is increasingly common. However, two-thirds of reported clinical variants are missense, and more than half of these are variants of uncertain significance (VUSs). Cell-based variant functional assays can provide strong evidence toward more informative variant classification, but these are carried out reactively, often years after clinical presentation. By contrast, proactively assessing all possible missense variants could provide immediate evidence to guide genetic diagnosis, even for never-before-seen variants. Here, we used an insulin-promoter-driven reporter to proactively assess the function of 9,790 AIRE missense variants. The resulting AIRE variant effect map both validates and extends current biochemical knowledge, concords with pathogenicity annotations, and provides proactive evidence for 70% of previously reported VUSs. Placing our map in the context of both an international APS-1 cohort and the UK Biobank revealed quantitative genotype-phenotype correlations. Moreover, evidence from our variant effect map resolved 32% of current VUSs. Together, our proactive resource of AIRE variant impacts offers the potential to improve outcomes via more rapid and definitive APS-1 diagnosis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Non-surgical hypoparathyroidism is a rare endocrine disorder associated with substantial long-term morbidity, with limited data from low- and middle-income countries.This single-centre ambispective observational cohort study included 27 patients with non-surgical hypoparathyroidism evaluated at a University Hospital between 2013 and 2025. Clinical manifestations, biochemical parameters, treatment requirements, complications, and outcomes were prospectively recorded. Patients with syndromic features underwent whole-exome sequencing.The median age at presentation was 16 years (range 1-60), with a mean follow-up of 6.9 ± 2.9 years. Neuromuscular manifestations of hypocalcaemia were the most frequent presenting features. Severe hypocalcaemia was observed in 23(85.2%) of patients, with inappropriately low parathyroid hormone levels in all cases. Conventional therapy significantly improved mean serum calcium concentrations to 7.95 ± 0.59 mg/dL. Basal ganglia calcification was detected in 15(55.6%), cataracts in 7 (25.9%), QT prolongation in 5(18.5%), and nephrocalcinosis in 4(14.8%). Four patients had syndromic hypoparathyroidism. Genetic analysis identified a novel homozygous splice-site variant in AIRE (c.308-1G > C), a novel frameshift heterozygous AIRE variant (c.758_771del; p.Lys253SerfsTer13), and a novel heterozygous frameshift duplication in GATA3 (c.159dup; p.Asp54Argfs*250). Calcium dose correlated positively with 24-hour urinary calcium excretion (ρ = 0.59, p = 0.002) and nephrocalcinosis (ρ = 0.45, p = 0.018).Non-surgical hypoparathyroidism is associated with significant long-term neurological and renal complications. Renal morbidity is primarily related to treatment intensity and hypercalciuria, whereas extra-renal manifestations appear independent of urinary calcium losses. Identification of novel AIRE and GATA3 mutations expanded the genetic spectrum of syndromic hypoparathyroidism in Indian patients.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Autoimmune polyglandular syndrome type-1 (APS-1) results from mutations in autoimmune regulator (AIRE), a transcription factor that drives thymic expression of tissue-restricted antigens, thus enabling deletion of self-reactive thymocytes to maintain tolerance. APS-1 typically manifests with hypoparathyroidism, adrenal insufficiency, and candidiasis, but presentation varies. In this study, we characterized the clinical, genetic, and immunologic features of 18 new APS-1 patients and reviewed all reported cases to identify additional manifestations and mutational hotspots useful for targeted sequencing. We report three previously unpublished mutations, reduced T cell function, and diminished Treg numbers in our patients. Furthermore, we identified alopecia, thyroid disease, and diabetes mellitus as additional diagnostic clues, and revealed five recurrent variants that account for over 80% of known mutations. Our findings highlight additional clinical and laboratory features and emphasize key mutational hotspots that can accelerate the diagnosis to improve the timely and cost-effective identification of APS-1, especially in settings with limited awareness or resources.© 2026 Lamah et al.
Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) triggers a systemic inflammatory response that can lead to remote organ damage, including the brain. While the Low-Density Lipoprotein Receptor-Related Protein 5 (LRP5)-mediated canonical WNT pathway is a known regulator of cell survival in peripheral tissues, its role in the brain post-MI is unknown.Myocardial infarction was induced in Wt and Lrp5-/- mice and infarct size and mortality were assessed. Serum from these mice was used to treat neuronal cultures. The specific effects of TNF-α were investigated in LRP5-silenced neurons and microglia, with analyses of apoptotic markers, LDH release and key signaling pathways (WNT/β-catenin and NF-κB).Lrp5-/- mice showed significantly higher mortality and larger infarcts and its serum increased the pro-apoptotic profile in differentiated SHSY5Y neurons. TNF-α exerted prosurvival effects in neurons and microglia through distinct mechanisms. In neurons, TNF-α protection was LRP5- and NF-κB-independent while in microglia, TNF-αinduced survival and Bcl2 upregulation required both LRP5 and NF-κB signaling. The canonical WNT pathway was not involved.LRP5 deficiency aggravates cardiac injury and is associated with increased neuronal susceptibility to inflammatory signals. In vitro, LRP5 selectively mediates TNF-α-dependent survival in microglia via NF-κB while neuronal responses to TNF-α occur through LRP5-independent pathways. These data reveal cell type-specific roles for LRP5 in the inflammatory response to MI and provide a foundation for further mechanistic investigation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Methods: To assess the impact of TBX1 on the proliferation and colony-forming capacity of colorectal cancer cells, in vitro functional investigations were carried out. Concurrently, a subcutaneous xenograft mouse model was established to determine the influence of TBX1 on tumor growth in vivo. Through a series of molecular and biochemical experiments, the underlying mechanism through which TBX1 exerts its effects in colorectal cancer cells was elucidated.Our findings revealed that TBX1 was significantly downregulated in colorectal cancers as compared to non-cancerous tissues. We showed that the ectopic expression of TBX1 potently inhibited cell proliferation, colony-forming ability, cell apoptosis, cell migration, cell invasion in colorectal cancer cells, and tumor growth in nude mice. This suppressive effect was achieved via the suppression of the MAPK/ERK and PI3K/AKT signaling pathways. Subsequent investigations indicated that TBX1 exerted its inhibitory influence on these two pathways by transcriptionally activating protein phosphatase 2 regulatory subunit B (PPP2R2B) directly, thereby fulfilling TBX1's tumor-suppressor functions. As anticipated, the knockdown of PPP2R2B remarkably alleviated the inhibitory impact of TBX1 on cell proliferation and colony formation. Moreover, it also significantly mitigated the inhibitory effects on the activities of the MAPK/ERK and PI3K/AKT pathways.The current investigation demonstrates that TBX1 acts as a potential tumor suppressor in colorectal cancer cells by inhibiting the MAPK/ERK and PI3K/AKT signaling cascades depending on PPP2R2B.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42528816 is a review article
Several protocols have been reported for inducing parathyroid differentiation from human pluripotent stem cells in vitro. However, the efficiency of terminal differentiation into mature parathyroid cells remains limited. In this study, we performed comparative transcriptomic analyses of parathyroid lineage-induced human induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells to clarify their developmental stage identity. Comparative analyses with adult parathyroid adenoma, used as a surrogate reference for mature parathyroid cells, and thymuses revealed that the differentiated cells exhibited gene expression patterns consistent with early-stage parathyroid and thymus development, including TBX1, which is required for fate determination of the parathyroid-thymic primordium. On the other hand, the expression of mature parathyroid marker genes, such as PTH, GCM2, and the calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR), remained markedly lower than that in parathyroid adenoma. Under the differentiation conditions and durations examined, application of modified differentiation protocols did not significantly enhance the expression of mature parathyroid markers, although pharyngeal pouch developmental gene expression was maintained. Our findings indicate that current in vitro differentiation systems effectively induce the parathyroid-thymic primordium stage, while a developmental bottleneck at the transition from the primordium toward parathyroid lineage commitment remains.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42493359 is a review article
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that primarily affects motor neurons leading to muscle weakness, paralysis, and ultimately, respiratory failure. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) facilitate intercellular communication by mimicking the functions of their parent cells. In this study, we found that repeated administration of neural stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles (NSC-derived EVs) improved motor performance and provided protection to lumbar motor neurons, the neuromuscular junctions, and muscle morphology in the SOD1 G93A transgenic mouse model of ALS. Furthermore, by analyzing the RNA-sequencing of muscle specimens from ALS-SOD1 patients, we demonstrated that the rescue effects of NSC-derived EVs might be linked to the p53 pathway. Compared to the PBS control treatment group, both TP53 and the p53 upregulated modulator of apoptosis (PUMA) were downregulated in the spinal cord of mice treated with NSC-derived EVs. These data provide additional knowledge for the promising use of NSC-derived EVs as a potential therapy for ALS.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Association of Neuropathologists, Inc. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Nicotinamide (NAM), a precursor for nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+), is widely used as a supplement during different cells culturing. Although its antioxidative and anti-apoptotic properties, the specific effects on bovine embryo quality and implantation potential remain partly explored. The current study aimed to investigate the impact of NAM on developmental competence and quality of bovine embryos, focusing on cell apoptosis, survival, and trophoblast invasion. NAM was treated during in vitro maturation (IVM) and late-stage embryo culture (IVC3; the morula stage embryo), the cleavage and blastocyst formation rates were evaluated on Days 4 and 8 post-fertilization, respectively. Underlying mechanisms affecting embryo quality and invasion potential were examined in developed blastocysts using RT-qPCR, immunofluorescence, reactive oxygen species (ROS) measurement, TUNEL and trophoblast invasion assays. Results showed that the cleavage and blastocyst formation rates were significantly increased in the NAM-treated group relative to controls (83.62 ± 1.38% vs. 80.08 ± 0.52%, and 37.54 ± 1.15% vs. 28.74 ± 0.70%, respectively). Additionally, the in vitro-developed embryos supplemented with NAM during IVM and IVC3 exhibited lower levels of ROS and mRNA of caspase-3, and higher mRNA levels of the survival genes SOD1 and SOD2. Similarly, the DNA fragmentation rate was lower, and the total cell counts and inner cell mass to trophectoderm (ICM:TE) ratios were higher in embryos supplemented with NAM compared to untreated embryos. Furthermore, the MMP2 and MMP9 protein expression and trophoblast invasion rate of blastocysts treated with NAM were enhanced. These findings highlight the potential role of NAM in improving bovine embryo quality and enhancing trophoblast invasive capacity, thereby suggesting an improved implantation potential.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560011 is a review article
Skeletal muscle atrophy in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) drives loss of muscle strength, function and quality of life in ALS patients. The endocannabinoid system (ECS) regulates muscle homeostasis via regenerative and metabolic processes, and although ECS alterations have been reported in ALS neural tissues, ECS remodelling within ALS skeletal muscle has never been studied. This study investigated temporal and muscle type-specific ECS changes in ALS.Female hSOD1G93A transgenic mice and nontransgenic littermates were studied at presymptomatic and symptomatic ages (56-138 days of age; n = 7-8/group). Endocannabinoids, N-acyl-ethanolamine congeners and inflammatory lipid mediators were quantified using targeted LC-MS/MS in the tibialis anterior (TA) and soleus (SOL) muscles. ECS-related enzymes and receptors were assessed by immunoblotting and integrated with transcriptomic analyses of skeletal muscle biopsies from ALS patients (n = 5/group; ~63 years). To evaluate therapeutic relevance, ALS mice were treated with the fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) inhibitor URB937 or vehicle (n = 10-11/group), and survival, body weight, welfare and motor function were assessed longitudinally.ALS caused severe atrophy in the predominantly fast-twitch TA muscle (-76.5%; p < 0.01), while the slow-twitch soleus was largely preserved (-14.4%; p < 0.01). Accordingly, the lipid perturbation due to ALS was more pronounced in the TA, reflected by extensive alterations in unsaturated fatty acids, hydroxy- and epoxy-fatty acids (TA: 63% and SOL: 22% of lipid mediators different between ALS vs. NTG) and marked ECS remodelling, including elevated anandamide (+37.3%; p = 0.03) and multiple N-acyl-ethanolamine congeners (+76-102%; p < 0.05), reduced 2-arachidonoylglycerol (-28%; p = 0.06), increased CB1 receptor expression (+93%; p < 0.01) and dynamic, age-dependent regulation of FAAH (presymptomatic: -68%; p = 0.04, symptomatic: +21%; p = 0.02). In contrast, the SOL showed modest or opposite changes, consistent with its relative resistance to atrophy. Notably, ECS remodelling in the TA was already evident at presymptomatic age (e.g., CB1: +76%; p = 0.01) and the same ECS enzymes were affected in human ALS skeletal muscle transcriptomes (e.g., twofold decrease in FAAH; pFDR = 0.010). Despite evidence for a therapeutic potential, chronic peripheral FAAH inhibition with URB937 did not improve weight loss, motor functions and survival of ALS mice (all p > 0.05).Muscle type-specific endocannabinoid system remodelling in ALS precedes overt neurological decline and might relate to degenerative features such as metabolic disturbance and inflammation. Although peripheral FAAH inhibition alone was insufficient to modify disease outcomes, these findings identify the endocannabinoid system as an integral component of ALS muscle pathology and support skeletal muscle lipid signalling as a potentially relevant early target for adjunctive therapeutic strategies.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cachexia, Sarcopenia and Muscle published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells evade apoptosis through antioxidant mechanisms. Paris saponin VII (PS VII), a steroidal saponin, exhibits antitumor activity in solid malignancies, but its role in AML remains unclear.This study investigated the antileukemic effects of PS VII on AML and the underlying mechanism, and evaluated its synergy with idarubicin (Ida).Using human SKM-1 and murine C1498 AML cell lines, we assessed antileukemic effects of PS VII in vitro. Subcutaneous and systemic leukemia mouse models were employed for in vivo validation. Mechanistic studies integrated DIA-based proteomics, co-immunoprecipitation, surface plasmon resonance, and ubiquitination assays to elucidate the molecular basis.PS VII bound to superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) and promoted its proteasomal degradation. This process was mediated by TRIP12-dependent K48-linked polyubiquitination at lysine residues 10 and 37. SOD1 degradation elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels and induced mitochondrial dysfunction. High SOD1 expression was associated with poor prognosis in AML patients. PS VII and Ida synergistically induced ROS-dependent apoptosis in vitro and in vivo.PS VII functions as a natural compound SOD1 degrader that triggers ROS-dependent AML cell death through TRIP12-mediated ubiquitin-proteasomal degradation. Its synergy with Ida provides a potential combination strategy that increases cellular sensitivity to oxidative stress and cell death.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
Melanoma is an aggressive form of skin cancer characterized by high metastatic potential and increasing incidence and mortality worldwide. Although significant advances have been achieved with immune checkpoint inhibitors and targeted therapies, effective preventive and long-term therapeutic strategies remain limited. Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG), widely used in bladder cancer immunotherapy, exhibits potent immunostimulatory properties and has emerged as a promising platform for recombinant cancer vaccines. Among the candidate antigens, Antigen 85A (Ag85A), derived from Mycobacterium bovis, is notable for its strong immunogenicity and ability to induce robust Th1-mediated cellular immune responses. In this study, recombinant BCG strains overexpressing efficacy was evaluated in melanoma models in vitro and in vivo. Gene expression analysis by RT-qPCR revealed that rBCG-Ag85A induced systemic immune activation, characterized by increased Il1B and Trl4 expression in splenocytes. In tumor tissues, rBCG-Ag85A significantly upregulated genes associated with apoptosis (Bax, Bcl2), oxidative stress (Sod1, Cat), inflammatory and immune signaling pathways (Tlr4, Nfkb, Il12, Il1b, Casp1), and modulation of pathways involved in cellular metabolism (Mtor) indicating enhanced modulation of the tumor microenvironment. Functionally, these molecular and immunological effects were associated with reduced tumor progression, slower tumor growth, and improved survival in B16F10 melanoma-bearing mice. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that rBCG-Ag85A promotes multifaceted antitumor activity through the modulation of apoptosis, inflammation and oxidative stress-related gene expression, highlighting its potential as a promising prophylactic vaccine strategy to prevent cutaneous malignant melanoma and supporting future studies aimed at elucidating the immune cell populations involved and optimizing combinatorial therapeutic approaches.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lead (Pb) is one of the most prevalent environmental toxicants and is of great concern due to its adverse effects. Despite lead's oxidative properties, studies on the transgenerational effects of paternal Pb exposure remain inadequate. This study aimed to evaluate these effects on oxidative stress and the expression of specific genes using the D. melanogaster model. Male fruit flies were fed a normal diet supplemented with lead acetate as the Pb source for 20 consecutive days. The Pb-exposed males were mated with unexposed females, producing F1 offspring. F1 flies were fed a normal diet, and then bred to produce F2; F3 was produced from F2. All F1-F3 generations were kept on a normal diet, with no Pb exposure. Antioxidant parameters, including vitamins A, C, and E; reduced glutathione (GSH); catalase; superoxide dismutase (SOD); malondialdehyde (MDA); and the expression of CAT and SOD1 mRNA, were evaluated. There was a significant (p < 0.05) decrease in antioxidant vitamin levels, GSH content, and catalase and SOD activities across F1-F3 due to exposure to the grandparent (F0). Similarly, a significant (p < 0.05) elevation in MDA levels was observed across the F1-F3 generations due to exposure of the F0 generation. Significant down-regulation of the antioxidant genes CAT and SOD1 was also detected. The findings indicate persistent transgenerational alterations in oxidative stress biomarkers and antioxidant gene expression resulting from paternal Pb exposure. This underscores the importance of studying multiple generations to assess the health and environmental risks posed by pollutants.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Dry eye disease (DED) is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the ocular surface; however, upstream immune mechanisms contributing to DED are complex and unclear. This study aimed to identify differentially expressed tear proteins in patients with DED and elucidate the underlying disease mechanism.Tear fluid from healthy controls (HC; n = 26), aqueous-deficient DED (ADDE; n = 29), and evaporative DED (EDE; n = 26) patients were collected using Schirmer strips. Proteomic profiling was performed using nano-ESI LC-MS/MS. Differential proteins were identified using LIMMA and MBQN with Gene Ontology pathway enrichment. Key candidates were validated by ELISA (IL-8, IL-18, histones), Western blotting for citrullinated H3, PicoGreen for extracellular DNA, and in vitro assays in human corneal epithelial cells.A total of 2596 tear proteins were identified across groups, of which 101 were significantly altered (P < 0.001) in both ADDE and EDE groups. Principal component analysis and heatmap analyses revealed differential protein abundance patterns between HC and disease groups, with increased inflammatory and oxidative stress proteins (MMP9, MAPK3, S100A8/A9, and SOD1) and decreased lactoferrin, lysozyme, lipocalin-1, and mucins in ADDE and EDE. Pathway enrichment indicated activation of neutrophil-mediated inflammation and extracellular chromatin release. Validation confirmed significant upregulation of NETosis-associated markers, including IL-8 (P < 0.01), IL-18 (P < 0.001), and histone proteins (H1, H2A/B, H3, H4) (P < 0.001) in disease groups, which was further confirmed by in vitro DED model.Our study shows that neutrophil-mediated inflammation and NETosis in DED may be associated with elevated IL-8, IL-18, and histone proteins in ADDE and EDE, which could be potential biomarkers or therapeutic targets.
To evaluate the effectiveness of Tofersen in patients with superoxide dismutase 1 gene (SOD1-ALS) patients in France in a real-world setting, using disease progression within patient comparisons and with a historical cohort.Patients with SOD1-ALS were included from across 19 French FILSLAN network centers. Baseline was defined as the treatment initiation date. Main endpoints were the ALSFRS-R progression rate and plasmatic neurofilament light chain (NfL) levels at baseline and 12 months after baseline.In the Tofersen Cohort (N=46), within-group comparisons showed that the mean ALS functional rating scale revised (ALSFRS-R) progression rate slowed from 0.53 ± 0.5 at baseline to 0.22 ± 0.3 point/month at 12 months (P=.006). NfL levels significantly decreased from 89.0 ± 9.0 pg/ml at baseline to 29.2 ± 19.5.5 at 12 months (P=.004). Exploratory comparisons with a propensity score (PS) matched historical cohort (39 matched pairs) using a mixed-effects model, ALSFRS-R progression rate at baseline, 6 months, and 12 months after baseline, showed no statistically significant differences between groups P=.30, whereas longitudinal ALSFRS-R scores differed significantly between groups (time-treatment interaction P=.006). The mean survival of the PS matched population was longer in the Tofersen Cohort (42.6 months) than the Historical Cohort (31.8 months) P=.004. Time-dependent adjusted cox analysis showed that Tofersen was associated with a reduction in mortality risk (adjusted HR=0.34; 95% CI, 0.12-0.91; P=.03).Tofersen seems to be associated with slower functional decline and reduced NfL levels. While limitations of retrospective design and ALSFRS-R sensitivity must be acknowledged, these findings provide real-world evidence suggesting a clinical benefit of Tofersen.© 2026 The Authors.
Post-ovulatory aging (POA) reduces oocyte quality, yet effective interventions remain limited. Here we demonstrate that early intervention with vitamin K2 (menaquinone-4 isoform, MK-4) alleviates POA by inhibiting iron-disorder-induced oxidative stress. Western blot revealed that the expressions of ferroptosis suppressor protein 1 (FSP1) and vitamin K epoxide reductase-like protein (VKORC1L1) were significantly decreased in mouse POA oocytes; however, MK-4 attenuated these changes. Further, MK-4 inhibited ferritinophagy by downregulating NCOA4 and LC3II, markedly restored ferritin level, reduced intracellular Fe2+ amount, thus attenuating oxidative stress. These results were characterized by reducing lipid peroxidation marker malondialdehyde (MDA) and acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family member 4 (ACSL4) expression, decreasing γ-H2AX and 8-Hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), and enhancing expression of the mitochondrial antioxidant enzyme superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1). Additionally, MK-4 suppressed mitophagy by downregulating PINK1 and Parkin, and upregulating Rab7 improving mitochondrial membrane potential. Consequently, abnormalities in chromosomes, spindles, and the cytoskeleton were significantly ameliorated in POA oocytes receiving early MK-4 intervention. Notably, in vitro-aging oocytes expressed higher FSP1 and VKORC1L1 but lower ACSL4 and MDA versus the in vivo counterparts, suggesting a milder lipid peroxidation in vitro. Collectively, our findings uncover a novel anti-aging mechanism triggered by MK-4, highlighting its potential to establish a preventive strategy for female reproductive aging.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
SMARCA4-deficient undifferentiated tumors (SMARCA4-dUT) have been included in the latest WHO classification of tumors. This study examined the cytomorphology, management, molecular features and prognosis of malignancies harboring SMARCA4 alterations.Biopsied cytologic slides were reviewed. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) and clinical data were analyzed.Thirty-four cases with SMARCA4 alterations were identified, including 13 primary and 21 metastatic tumors, sampled primarily from lung (35%), lymph nodes (26%) and liver (15%). Tumor origins were predominantly the lung (61%) and gallbladder (9%). The most common tumor type was adenocarcinoma (70%). Predominant architectures included nested, single-cell, tubular/acinar, and 3D clusters. Cells were most commonly round and columnar, with medium cytoplasm mostly showing vacuoles and granular features. Nuclear grade 2-3 was seen in 93% of cases, with prominent nucleoli and coarse chromatin. SMARCA4 alteration included mutations (32) and loss (2). These tumors are characterized by a high co-mutation burden, including TP53 (62%), KRAS (35%), and STK11 (15%). Prognosis is further modulated by allelic status (biallelic vs. monoallelic vs. subclonal), and mutations in DDR pathway (24%). Most tumors presented as stage IV. 26% received surgical resection. Overall, 74% underwent chemotherapy and 29% radiotherapy. Mean follow-up was 17 months, with 2-year OS of 49.1%. Twenty-three (68%) patients were current or former smokers.SMARCA4-altered malignancies show diverse differentiation and lack consistent cytomorphologic features. Majority of cases were differentiated malignancies and only four cases (12%) were undifferentiated, suggesting SMARCA4 alterations were associated with poor prognosis but were not exclusive drivers of undifferentiated malignancy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and acute myeloid leukemias (AML) harboring TP53 mutations are defined by extreme genomic instability, complex karyotypes (CK), and poor prognosis. While large-scale chromosomal imbalances are common in CK-MDS/AML, the synergy between focal amplifications of signaling drivers and the disruption of transcriptional regulators remains poorly elucidated.We performed a comprehensive clinical, cytogenetic (GTG-banding, M-FISH, M-Band), and molecular (targeted FISH, NGS) analysis of seven patients with MDS and AML characterized by a recurrent and distinct genomic signature.All cases exhibited highly complex karyotypes on a TP53-mutated background. We identified high-level focal amplifications of EPOR (19p13.2) and JAK2 (9p24.1), predominantly manifesting as homogeneously staining regions (HSRs) or complex "sandwich-like" derivative chromosomes. Notably, these signaling alterations consistently co-occurred with monoallelic deletions of the TCF3 (E2A) tumor suppressor (19p13.3) and copy number gains of the ERG transcription factor (21q22). Detailed structural analysis indicates that TCF3 loss likely arises as a structural consequence of chromosome 19 rearrangements driving EPOR amplification. Based on this data, we propose a conceptual model of leukemogenesis where EPOR/JAK2 co-amplification potentially drives constitutive JAK2/STAT5 signaling, while concurrent ERG gain and TCF3 haploinsufficiency contribute to maturation delay. TP53 deficiency appears to be the primary permissive factor enabling the stabilization of these massive structural rearrangements.Our findings outline a recurrent and biologically coherent genomic pattern within the spectrum of TP53-mutated myeloid neoplasms, demonstrating significant phenotypic overlap with erythroid leukemia features in a subset of cases. Given the small cohort size, these findings are hypothesis-generating. However, this convergence of predicted JAK2/STAT5 pathway hyperactivation and transcriptional disinhibition points to a theoretical therapeutic vulnerability that warrants prospective validation in larger collaborative studies.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) are expanding treatment options in endometrial carcinoma, but the distribution of actionable surface targets across histologic, molecular, and genomic subgroups remains incompletely defined.This single-institution retrospective tissue microarray (TMA) study included 312 endometrial carcinomas: 158 endometrioid and 154 serous tumors. Trophoblast cell-surface antigen 2 (TROP2) was quantified by histochemical score (H-score); human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) was assessed using endometrial carcinoma-specific and gastric/DESTINY-PanTumor02 criteria; and folate receptor alpha (FRα) positivity was defined as ≥75% viable tumor cells with ≥2+ membranous staining. Molecular class was assigned using a hierarchical DNA polymerase epsilon (POLE)-mutant, microsatellite instability/mismatch repair-deficient (MSI/MMRd), p53-abnormal, and no specific molecular profile (NSMP) classifier. Tumor mutational burden (TMB) and recurrent genomic alterations were analyzed in relation to biomarker expression.TROP2 was broadly expressed, with median H-scores of 280 in endometrioid and 200 in serous carcinomas. HER2 gastric-score 2+/3+ expression and FRα positivity were enriched in serous versus endometrioid carcinoma (22.5% vs 8.9% and 20.1% vs 4.4%), restricted to FIGO grade 3 tumors, and concentrated in p53-abnormal disease. FRα positivity was absent in POLE-mutant and MSI/MMRd tumors. HER2 2+/3+ expression correlated with erb-b2 receptor tyrosine kinase 2 (ERBB2) alterations, whereas FRα-positive tumors were enriched for TP53 alterations and showed lower frequencies of ARID1A and PTEN alterations. Triple-negative TROP2/HER2/FRα tumors were uncommon (6/308, 1.9%).TROP2 is broadly expressed in endometrial carcinoma, whereas HER2 and FRα define a more restricted high-grade, serous/serous-like, p53-abnormal compartment, supporting biomarker-informed ADC development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Pancreatic cancer (PC) is known to be a highly fatal malignancy, and elucidating new molecular mechanisms is of great importance. In this study, we investigated NECTIN4 (PVRL4), which is associated with poor prognosis, via bioinformatics approach. We used following tools and datasets: For differential gene expression analysis, TCGA TARGET GTEx study on UCSC Xena, GSE183795, GSE71729 and GSE196009 GEO datasets; for associations with clinicopathological and promoter methylation features, UALCAN; for correlations with overall survival (OS), disease-free survival (DFS) gene chip database, and for correlations with OS and relapse-free survival (RFS) RNAseq database in the Kaplan-Meier (KM) plotter; for correlations with OS and Progression-Free Interval (PFI), DoSurvive; for immune infiltration correlations, TIMER3; for expression changes in hotspot mutations, GEPIA 3; for potentially related pathways, diseases, and processes, the Gscore online tool; for gene alterations detections, cBioPortal; and identifying potential targeting miRNAs, miRDB, TargetScanHuman 8.0, ENCORI, and DoSurvive. NECTIN4 (PVRL4) is upregulated in primary pancreatic adenocarcinoma in TCGA TARGET GTEx study (log2FC=2.015633, adj.P.Val=4.62E-21) and in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas in GSE183795 (log2FC=0.726, adj.P.Val=10-16.895) GSE196009 (log2FC=2.807, adj.P.Val=10-3.855) GSE71729 (log2FC= 1.227, adj.P.Val=10-10.318) datasets, and may be associated with unfavorable OS (p = 3.63E-02) and PFI (p = 8.09E-03) independent of age at diagnosis, sex, and stage in DoSurvive. In KM plotter RNA seq database, increased NECTIN4 (PVRL4) expression was statistically significantly associated only with shortened OS (p = 0.008). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) expressions are higher in the following traits than in others: In Asians compared to normals (p = 4.949700E-02) and Caucasian (p = 4.480000E-03); in chronic pancreatitis patients from normals (p=3.456300E-02); in grade 2 (p = 2.420600E-04) and grade 3 (p = 1.875500E-03) from grade 1; in TP53 mutants from nonmutants (p = 7.6379999999987E-05). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) correlates positively or negatively with many immune cell types, some of which are also associated with OS. NECTIN4 is upregulated in KRAS (log2FC=1.78, p = 1.05E-17), TP53 (log2FC=0.959, p = 1.22E-05), SMAD4 (log2FC=1.02, p = 0.000111), CDKN2A (log2FC=0.668, p = 0.0144), and RNF43 (log2FC=0.917, p = 0.0393) mutant samples. NECTIN4 (PVRL4) is associated with many pathways, processes, and diseases these may be related to PC. Six patients have amplification, and one patient has a splice mutation. hsa-miR-329-3p and hsa-miR-5586-5p may be potential negative regulatory miRNAs of NECTIN4 (PVRL4). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) may be associated with many pathways awaiting experimental illumination in PC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) is an aggressive malignancy with limited molecular characterization in advanced disease. FGFR3 alterations are well established in low-grade urothelial carcinoma, but their prevalence, stability, and biological significance in locally advanced and metastatic UTUC remain only partially defined. We performed an integrated morphologic, immunohistochemical, and molecular analysis of 24 locally advanced and/or metastatic UTUC from 20 patients. FGFR3 status was assessed by RT-PCR across multiple tumor compartments, including biopsies, primary tumors, lymph-node metastases, and distant metastatic sites. Immunohistochemistry included CK20, CK5, GATA3, p53, and mismatch repair proteins. Targeted next-generation sequencing (NGS) was used to characterize co-occurring genomic alterations and to assess concordance with p53 immunophenotype. FGFR3 alterations were identified in 50% of patients and in 54.2% of analyzed tumors. FGFR3 status showed high intra-patient stability, with concordance between primary tumors and distant metastases in 90% of cases, whereas concordance with lymph node metastases was lower (50%), suggesting site-specific clonal divergence. Despite advanced stage, 92.3% of FGFR3-altered tumors displayed papillary urothelial carcinoma morphology, and most showed a luminal immunophenotype (61.5% by CK20/CK5 and 69.2% by GATA3/CK5). Targeted NGS revealed additional pathogenic alterations in 75% of patients, most frequently involving RTK/RAS/MAPK signaling (70%), cell-cycle regulation (25%), and PI3K/AKT pathway components (10%). TP53 mutations co-occurred with FGFR3 alterations in 60% of FGFR3-mutated patients and showed 90.4% concordance with p53 immunohistochemistry. Finally, a few cases exhibited complex, multi-site FGFR3 mutational patterns, consistent with intratumoral clonal evolutions. In conclusion, FGFR3 alterations are frequent and remarkably stable in advanced UTUC, even in high-grade and metastatic disease. These findings support the reliability of FGFR3 testing on limited diagnostic material and reinforce its relevance for therapeutic stratification. UTUC emerges as a molecularly dynamic disease in which early oncogenic drivers such as FGFR3 continue to shape tumor biology and therapeutic vulnerability at advanced stages.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Molecular classification has refined risk stratification in endometrial cancer and is now incorporated into the 2023 International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) staging system. However, prospective real-world data on its impact on multidisciplinary tumor board (MDT) decision making remain limited. We evaluated the impact of molecular information on adjuvant treatment recommendations in stage I to II endometrial cancer.This prospective observational study included patients with surgically treated FIGO 2023 stage I to II endometrial carcinoma discussed at MDT between February 2024 and December 2025. Clinicopathologic risk stratification was performed using the ESGO-ESTRO-ESP 2016 criteria. Molecular classification was determined using POLE sequencing and immunohistochemistry for mismatch repair (MMR) and TP53. Estrogen receptor status was not assessed, as no specific molecular profile (NSMP) subclassification was part of the operative framework during the study period. MDT recommendations were recorded before and after the integration of molecular results.A total of 122 patients were included. Molecular subtypes were NSMP in 55 (45.1%), MMR-deficient in 41 (33.6%), TP53-abnormal in 24 (19.7%), and POLE-mutated in two (1.6%). Integration of molecular classification changed MDT recommendations in 25 cases (20.5%), with escalation in 15 (12.3%) and de-escalation in 10 (8.2%). Therapy modification was most frequent in TP53-abnormal tumors (62.5%) compared with other subgroups (10.2%; odds ratio, 14.7 [95% CI, 5.1 to 42.1]; P < .001). No treatment changes were observed in NSMP or POLE-mutated tumors. The net incremental treatment cost was ₹11.8 lakh across the cohort; including molecular testing, the overall incremental cost was ₹34,672 per patient (∼$418 US dollars).Integration of molecular classification modified adjuvant treatment in approximately one fifth of patients. Changes were biologically consistent, supporting the feasibility and clinical utility of molecularly integrated MDT decision making in early-stage endometrial cancer even in resource-constrained settings.
Motivated by the rising incidence of cancers at younger ages, this study compares tumor genomic alterations between adolescents and young adults (AYAs; 18-39 years) and non-AYAs (40 years and older) and explores the relationship with continuous age in patients with relapsed/refractory ovarian, breast, and colorectal cancers accrued to the NCI-MATCH trial.Tumor genomic profiles generated by a next-generation sequencing 143-gene panel (NCI-MATCH assay, v2) were analyzed for association with age (AYA/total: 21/455 ovarian, 27/576 breast, 43/759 colorectal cancers). For each gene, AYA and non-AYA DNA alteration proportions were compared (Fisher exact test) and alteration association with continuous age (logistic regression) was evaluated (false discovery rate‑adjusted P value <.1 statistically significant). For colorectal cancer, sex-stratified analysis was also performed.No significant AYA versus non-AYA differences were observed in the prevalence of gene mutations (single nucleotide variant [SNV]/indel). A significant association of gene amplification with AYAs (odds ratio [OR], 95% CI) was CCND1 (0.2, 0.1-0.4), favoring AYAs in breast cancer. Examining age as a continuous variable, significant associations of gene mutations (SNV/indel) with older age, expressed as 5-year OR (OR [95% CI]), were observed: TP53 (1.3 [1.1 to 1.4]), ovarian cancer; CDH1 (1.4 [1.2 to 1.6]) and PIK3CA (1.1 [1.1 to 1.2]), breast cancer; and BRAF (1.4 [1.2 to 1.7]), female colorectal cancer. Associations with younger age included SMAD4 (0.8 [0.7 to 0.9]), male colorectal cancer. Significant associations of gene amplification with age (continuous) were as follows: CCNE1 (1.3 [1.1 to 1.6]), older ovarian cancer, and CCND1 (0.8 [0.8 to 0.9]), younger breast cancer.Comparing AYAs with non-AYAs among patients having relapsed/refractory disease, no significant differences in SNV/indel prevalence were observed, but CCND1 amplifications were more prevalent in AYA breast cancer. For several genes, DNA alterations were associated with continuous age and may depend on sex in colorectal cancer.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566728 is a review article
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a chronic, progressive lung disease characterized by persistent alveolar epithelial injury and aberrant tissue remodeling. Increasing evidence suggests that senescence of alveolar epithelial cells (AECs) contributes to impaired epithelial regeneration and maladaptive tissue repair by limiting reparative capacity and promoting profibrotic signaling. However, the molecular drivers of AEC senescence and their impact on the immune microenvironment in IPF remain incompletely understood. Here, we investigated senescence-associated genes involved in IPF pathogenesis and evaluated their diagnostic and therapeutic potential. IPF transcriptomic datasets were retrieved from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). Senescence-related differentially expressed genes (SRDEGs) were identified by intersecting IPF-derived differentially expressed genes with a curated human senescence gene list. Functional enrichment analyses were performed to delineate SRDEG-associated biological processes. Hub genes were prioritized using machine-learning approaches, and a diagnostic model was constructed and assessed by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. Candidate genes were further validated through in vivo and in vitro experiments. Given the upstream regulatory role of CHEK2 in DNA damage response-associated cellular senescence, Fostamatinib was screened as a potential therapeutic agent, and its interaction with CHEK2 and functional effects were examined using molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and experimental assays. Two senescence-associated hub genes, CHEK2 and TP53 BP1, were identified as key contributors to IPF pathology (FDR-adjusted P < 0.05), and a model incorporating both genes achieved high diagnostic performance. Experimental validation, however, indicated that only CHEK2 showed IPF-specific differential expression and was closely associated with AEC senescence and fibrotic progression. In silico analyses supported stable binding between Fostamatinib and CHEK2, and subsequent molecular and cellular experiments suggested that Fostamatinib may attenuate CHEK2-associated senescence and profibrotic responses. Collectively, these findings identify CHEK2 as a critical regulator of AEC senescence and IPF development, supporting its potential use as a diagnostic biomarker and therapeutic target. Fostamatinib may represent a candidate therapeutic strategy for IPF by modulating CHEK2-related senescence pathways.Copyright: © 2026 Ding et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566056 is a review article
Biaoxu Ganmao Granules (BXGG) is used clinically for wind-cold syndrome; however, its effects on cyclophosphamide (CTX)-induced immunosuppression and the associated pharmacological basis remain incompletely characterized.Two mouse cohorts were used to evaluate BXGG and paeoniflorin in a CTX-induced immunosuppression model. Body weight, thymus and spleen indices, splenic histopathology, serum cytokines, and peripheral blood cell counts were assessed. Ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole time-of-flight tandem mass spectrometry (UHPLC-QTOF-MS/MS), network pharmacology, and molecular docking were used to characterize BXGG constituents, blood-absorbed constituents, and putative targets. Paeoniflorin was selected as a representative blood-absorbed constituent for preliminary in vivo validation, and proteins related to the toll-like receptor 4/nuclear factor kappa B (TLR4/NF-κB) pathway were examined by Western blotting.BXGG partially reversed CTX-associated reductions in body weight, thymus and spleen indices. It also partially restored serum interleukin-2 (IL-2), interleukin-4 (IL-4), and interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) levels, and white blood cell (WBC), lymphocyte (LYMPH), platelet (PLT), and reticulocyte (RET) counts. Network analysis and docking prioritized paeoniflorin as a candidate immune-regulatory constituent. Paeoniflorin improved several CTX-impaired immune-related outcomes and decreased TLR4 expression and the phosphorylated inhibitor of κB alpha/inhibitor of κB alpha (p-IκBα/IκBα) and phosphorylated NF-κB p65/NF-κB p65 (p-p65/p65) ratios in spleen tissue.BXGG ameliorated several CTX-induced immunosuppressive changes in mice. Paeoniflorin, selected as a representative absorbed constituent, partially reproduced the immunoprotective phenotype and was associated with attenuation of TLR4/NF-κB activation. The contributions and potential synergy of other absorbed compounds require further investigation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Although multigene testing for advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is reimbursed in Japan, optimizing its real-world clinical impact remains challenging. This study updates nationwide testing trends and evaluates the treatment gap between diagnostic results and first-line therapeutic interventions. We conducted a retrospective cohort study using the Diagnosis Procedure Combination database (April 2019 to May 2024). The analysis included 24,047 patients with Stage IV NSCLC across 300 hospitals who underwent diagnostic lung biopsies. Comprehensive multigene testing shifted significantly; testing for ≥ 5 genes rose sharply from late 2021, followed by a marked increase in 6-7 gene testing from mid-2023. Testing for rare drivers (MET, RET, KRAS, HER2) increased substantially. However, approximately 30% of patients remained untested regardless of region or age. While the proportion of patients receiving first-line targeted therapy plateaued at just under 30%, the use of targeted therapies for rare drivers showed a steady increase. In conclusion, multigene testing has rapidly replaced single-gene testing in Japan, narrowing the diagnostic gap for rare oncogenic drivers. Nevertheless, the persistent 30% untested rate emphasizes the need for better shared decision-making to ensure all patients receive comprehensive biomarker evaluation.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
Children carrying germline RET mutations associated with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 (MEN2) are at high risk of developing medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC). Prophylactic-intent thyroidectomy is recommended during childhood to prevent progression to advanced disease. Genotype-based recommendations combined with calcitonin measurements allow more individualized surgical timing. However, performing thyroidectomy at very young ages may expose children to long-term morbidity, particularly permanent hypoparathyroidism.We conducted a retrospective national multicenter cohort study within the French Groupe d'Étude des Tumeurs Endocrines, including children younger than 15 years who underwent prophylactic-intent total thyroidectomy between 2010 and 2020 in the absence of clinically apparent structural disease. Data collected included RET genotype, age at surgery, preoperative calcitonin values interpreted relative to each laboratory's upper limit of normal, surgical procedures performed, histopathologic findings, postoperative complications, and clinical status at last follow-up.Sixty-four children (61 MEN2A, 3 MEN2B) underwent surgery at a median age of 4.6 years (interquartile range [IQR] = 3.2-8.3 years). Preoperative calcitonin was elevated in 44% of evaluable patients. Histopathology demonstrated C-cell hyperplasia in 52% and micro-MTC in 34%, while lymph node metastases were rare (3%). After a median follow-up of 6 years (IQR = 2.4-8.5 years), no patient had persistent structural disease. One patient had persistent moderate biochemical disease without structural evidence of MTC, although follow-up duration limits definitive long-term oncologic outcomes. Postoperative morbidity was notable: hypoparathyroidism occurred in 31% of patients and was permanent in 16%, predominantly among children operated before age 5 years.In this national contemporary cohort, prophylactic-intent thyroidectomy in pediatric MEN2 was associated with excellent short-term oncologic outcomes but also with a substantial rate of permanent hypoparathyroidism, particularly in very young children. These findings underscore the importance of multidisciplinary evaluation of both the timing and extent of surgery in expert centers.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42562247 is a review article
Hyperphosphorylation and aggregation of tau are pathological hallmarks of tauopathies. Mitochondrial dysfunction is also a common feature of tauopathies. The mechanistic link between tau abnormalities and mitochondrial dysfunction and its relationship to the physiological function of tau, however, is unclear. Here, we demonstrate that tau regulates mitochondrial reverse electron transport (RET), which produces excess reactive oxygen species (ROS), reduces the NAD+/NADH ratio, and is activated by aging or stress. In flies, mice, and human induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC)-derived neurons, tau depletion eliminates stress-induced RET and confers resilience. Mechanistically, tau enters mitochondria and directly interacts with the complex I subunit NDUFS3 to promote RET in a phosphorylation-dependent manner. Elevated RET further drives tau hyperphosphorylation, establishing a self-perpetuating pathological loop. Inhibition of RET ameliorates tau toxicity across species. RET regulation thus represents a previously unrecognized normal function of tau that becomes pathological in disease, providing a therapeutic target for various conditions characterized by tau abnormalities and mitochondrial dysfunction.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560414 is a review article
Systemic therapy for refractory thyroid carcinoma has moved from chemotherapy and broad multikinase inhibitors towards molecularly targeted treatment. This review summarizes recent practice-changing developments in radioiodine-refractory differentiated thyroid carcinoma, with brief updates on medullary and anaplastic thyroid carcinoma.Recent guidelines and clinical studies emphasize early molecular testing, and careful selection of patients for personalized systemic therapy. Lenvatinib remains the preferred first-line multikinase inhibitor for most progressive radioiodine-refractory differentiated thyroid cancers without actionable alterations, while cabozantinib is the best-supported option after lenvatinib. Selective Rearranged during transfection (RET), Neurotrophic Tropomyosin Receptor Kinase (NTRK), and Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase (ALK) inhibitors have reshaped treatment for fusion-positive disease, and MAPK inhibition can restore radioiodine avidity in selected tumours. In anaplastic thyroid carcinoma, BRAF/MEK-directed treatment and emerging immunotherapy-targeted therapy combinations have prolonged survival and in select instances also enabled resection.Contemporary management of refractory thyroid carcinoma relies heavily on early molecular testing and utilizing genotype-directed targeted therapy options.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558428 is a review article
Differentiating atypical Spitz tumors (AST) from true Spitz melanomas (SM) and conventional melanomas with spitzoid features (MSF) remains a formidable diagnostic challenge. Because current molecular epidemiological data are overwhelmingly derived from Caucasian cohorts, the genomic landscape of Asian populations remains largely unexplored. To elucidate the molecular progression landscape and refine diagnostic criteria, we performed a comprehensive multimodal analysis-integrating histomorphology, immunohistochemistry (IHC), multi-probe fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), and targeted RNA/DNA-based next-generation sequencing (NGS)-on a cohort of 140 spitzoid neoplasms. This cohort, comprising 126 ASTs, 8 SMs, and 6 MSFs, represents the largest Asian cohort to date. Malignant phenotype strongly correlated with lesional asymmetry, deep atypical mitoses, a sheet-like growth pattern, diffuse PRAME positivity, and significant loss of p16 expression (64.3% in SM/MSF vs. 9.5% in ASTs; P<0.0001). Building upon established melanoma FISH criteria, we optimized a prognostic threshold of ≥2 FISH abnormalities specifically tailored for spitzoid neoplasms. We demonstrated that isolated single chromosomal aberrations (particularly MYB loss) are relatively stable events frequent in indolent ASTs, whereas our refined ≥2 threshold yielded 100% sensitivity and 91.7% specificity for predicting regional lymph node metastasis/local recurrence. Molecularly, NGS identified mutually exclusive initiating driver alterations (comprising kinase fusions and HRAS mutations) in 89.9% of true Spitz neoplasms, a remarkably high prevalence suggesting a distinct genetic background in Asian populations. We also characterized five entirely novel kinase fusions (ZNF24::ROS1, PCBP1::ROS1, NUMA1::RET, CBWD1::ALK, and TPR::NTRK1). Furthermore, NGS definitively segregated true Spitz neoplasms from morphologic mimics (MSF), which lacked fusions and were driven by canonical genomic alterations of the conventional melanoma pathway. Integrating these genomic landscapes validated a stepwise progression model. While isolated kinase fusions drove indolent ASTs, malignant SM invariably harbored concurrent pathogenic secondary alterations, demonstrating a profound reliance on CDKN2A/B, TP53, and CDK4 aberrations. Ultimately, we propose an integrated diagnostic algorithm combining morphologic evaluation, the refined FISH threshold, and comprehensive NGS profiling, providing a precise, evidence-based framework for pathway classification and clinical management of spitzoid neoplasms.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Obtaining tissue from advanced non-small cell lung cancer(NSCLC) patients is difficult, yet mutation testing is crucial for targeted therapy. This study evaluates the clinical utility of serous cavity effusion (SCE) supernatant for multi-gene mutation testing, comparing its performance with cell blocks as a promising liquid biopsy alternative. SCE samples were collected from untreated NSCLC patients. Following the routine cytology and DNA ploidy analysis of the SCE samples, matching supernatant and cell block specimens were prepared and subsequently subjected to multi-gene mutation testing using Amplification Refractory Mutation System PCR (ARMS-PCR). The panel comprised 11 genes covering major variant types across EGFR, ALK, ROS1, BRAF, KRAS, NTRK1/2/3, MET, RET, and HER2. Among the 124 patients who met the inclusion criteria, the overall driver gene mutation rate was 77.42%. Mutation status correlated with DNA aneuploidy, specifically with the average DNA Index (DI) value for the top 20 cells with DI > 2.5 (P = 0.004) and the number of cells with DI > 4.5 (P = 0.022). The detection rate of the supernatant (76.61%) was higher than that of the cell blocks (73.39%), though the difference was not statistically significant (P > 0.05). In samples with a tumor cell proportion < 10%, the supernatant achieved a significantly higher detection rate than cell blocks (53.33% vs. 26.67%). The turnaround time for supernatant testing was also much shorter than that for cell blocks (4.5 h vs. 19.5 h). SCE supernatant is a highly effective, rapid, and valuable complementary specimen for multi-gene driver mutation testing in NSCLC, demonstrating superior clinical sensitivity particularly in low-tumor-content or cytologically negative specimens.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Retinoblastoma (RB) lacks effective targeted therapies. Super-enhancers (SEs) are crucial for tumorigenesis, yet their role in RB was unclear.We profiled active SEs in RB cells using chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-Seq) and RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq). qRT-PCR, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-Seq) and immunohistochemistry (IHC) were employed to identify the critical regulator of SE activity. The anti-tumour effect of targeted blockade of SE regulator, achieved via pharmacological degradation and specific lentiviruses, was investigated in vitro and in preclinical models of subcutaneous, intraocular, and central nervous system (CNS)-metastatic RB.Cyclin-dependent kinase 12 (CDK12) was identified as a key SE regulator. SE-driven oncogenic transcription was suppressed by CDK12 inhibition, leading to eliminated tumour outgrowth and metastasis. In addition, SE-associated oncogenes BIRC5 and PTPRC were identified as essential for RB cell survival and stemness. Furthermore, PTPRC overexpression rescued the anti-tumour effect of BSJ-4-116.This study defines CDK12 as a master regulator of oncogenic SEs in RB. Targeting the CDK12-SE axis, via CDK12 or downstream effectors like BIRC5/PTPRC, presents a novel therapeutic strategy.© 2026. The Author(s).
India's indigenous pig genetic resources are central to sustainable meat production and rural livelihoods, yet their genomic potential remains underexplored. The Ghurrah pig, a native breed from northern India, is among the most genetically distinct and adaptively resilient populations, shaped by ancestral admixture from Asian, European, and Indian wild boar lineages. This study elucidates the genetic uniqueness, population structure, and adaptive introgression of the Ghurrah pig by jointly analysing 35,777 high-quality SNPs across 270 global pig genotypes. Higher observed heterozygosity (Ho = 0.287) and lower inbreeding coefficient (FIS = 0.206) in Ghurrah indicated substantial genetic variability and minimal inbreeding, while its effective population size (Ne = 26 at 13 generations ago) revealed demographic constraint. Linkage disequilibrium (r² = 0.325) and haplotype block structure (average block size = 415.56 kb) reflected reduced recombination and hybrid ancestry. Admixture analysis at K = 5 positioned Ghurrah intermediate between Asian and European clusters, with 39.07% Asian ancestry and significant European introgression. Local ancestry inference identified adaptive admixtures from Asian ancestry on Sus scrofa chromosome (SSC) 10, SSC12, and SSC15 associated with thermotolerance, immune regulation, and stress resilience, while European ancestry on SSC11 enriched pathways for muscle growth and carcass traits. Functionally, genes such as PTPRC, CTSL, and HSPA14 contributed to environmental adaptability, whereas ATP11A influenced lean meat yield. A 1000 SNP ancestry informative marker (AIM) panel revealed 97.25% unique ancestry for Ghurrah, underscoring its genetic distinctiveness. These findings establish Ghurrah as a genomic bridge between Asian and European domestication centres, embodying hybrid vigour and adaptive potential. The study emphasizes the need for genomic-assisted conservation breeding to safeguard Ghurrah's genetic integrity and promote its sustainable use in tropical production systems.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42481311
Cadmium, a ubiquitous environmental toxicant, poses significant risks to human health, including ocular surface damage. This study investigates the link between cadmium exposure and pterygium, a common ocular fibrovascular proliferative disorder, using human conjunctival fibroblasts (HconFs) as an in vitro model. We demonstrated that low-dose cadmium chloride (CdCl2, 1 μmol/L) significantly enhanced HconFs proliferation and disrupted cell cycle progression by reducing the G₀/G₁ phase population and increasing G₂/M phase entry. Transcriptome analysis identified 724 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), predominantly enriched in metal ion response, detoxification, and mineral absorption pathways. Bioinformatic screening and validation revealed significant upregulation of FGF18, PTPRC, NDP, and MT1X, alongside downregulation of MX1. Critically, FGF18 and MT1X were consistently upregulated in clinical pterygium tissues, suggesting their pivotal role in linking cadmium toxicity to disease pathogenesis. Furthermore, calcium chloride (CaCl₂, 3 mmol/L) co-treatment effectively mitigated cadmium-induced proliferation, supporting a protective role of calcium via competitive inhibition. These findings indicate that cadmium promotes HconFs proliferation by disrupting intracellular metal homeostasis and activating proliferative and fibrotic gene programs, including MT1X and FGF18, via pathways potentially involving ERK/MAPK and Wnt/β-catenin signaling, thereby contributing to pterygium development. This study provides novel insights into environmental etiologies of pterygium and proposes calcium supplementation as a potential preventive strategy against cadmium-related ocular surface disorders.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The Zika virus (ZIKV) infection has shown significant neurodevelopmental and neurological abnormalities. However, the molecular mechanisms of ZIKV-induced neuroinflammation are poorly understood. In the current study, an integrative approach of bioinformatics analysis was used to identify the molecular targets involved in the ZIKV infection. Microarray data sets consisting of 65 samples (35 ZIKV-positive and 30 controls) from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database were used for the study. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) analysis revealed 1,268 differentially expressed genes, of which 505 genes were up-regulated, while 763 genes were found to be down-regulated. The analysis using the weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) revealed two modules that showed significant correlation with the ZIKV-positive samples. A total of 535 overlapping genes were used for further analysis. The protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis revealed ten hub genes: ITGAM, CD86, PTPRC, FCGR3A, ITGB2, TNF, ITGAX, CSF1R, CCR5, and CD4. This study suggests that the immune response plays an important role in the ZIKV infection. The study also revealed a significant enrichment of genes associated with neurogenesis, synaptic organization, axon guidance, immune response and amyloid beta binding by performing gene ontology (GO) analysis. This data potentially indicates that ZIKV infection can modulate these key hub genes to cause neuroinflammation. In addition, the study also revealed that the ZIKV infection can regulate various transcription factors and microRNAs that regulate these hub genes, indicating the complex regulatory mechanism of the ZIKV infection. Furthermore, the study revealed that the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis showed that these hub genes, especially CCR5, are of preliminary diagnostic potential value. The study provided new insights into the molecular mechanisms of ZIKV-induced neuroinflammation and revealed the potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets of ZIKV-induced neurological disorders.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Medication-related osteonecrosis of the jaw (MRONJ) is a severe complication associated with antiresorptive or antiangiogenic therapy, yet its molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. This study aimed to identify potential core genes involved in MRONJ pathogenesis through integrative bioinformatics analysis.GSE7116 dataset (PBMC samples from 11 MRONJ and 10 non-MRONJ multiple myeloma patients on bisphosphonates) was analyzed. DEGs were identified using GEO2R. Functional enrichment, PPI network, hub gene identification, ROC-based diagnostic evaluation, and independent qRT-PCR validation were performed.241 DEGs (212 down, 29 up) were identified, enriched in immune/inflammatory responses and NOD-like receptor/NF-κB pathways. Ten hub genes (TNF, ACTB, IL1B, JUN, CXCL8, CXCR4, PTPRC, IL1A, HSP90AB1, RHOA) were identified. Four of them (HSP90AB1, RHOA, CXCL8, IL1B) showed high diagnostic accuracy (AUC 0.864-0.936) and were validated by qRT-PCR.This integrative bioinformatics analysis, combined with ROC evaluation and experimental qPCR validation, identifies immune- and inflammation-related hub genes as central to MRONJ pathogenesis. A four-gene signature (HSP90AB1, RHOA, CXCL8, IL1B) shows high diagnostic accuracy (AUC 0.864-0.936) and is proposed as a peripheral blood-based diagnostic panel. The widespread downregulation of inflammatory genes in PBMCs suggests systemic immunosuppression rather than overt inflammation, offering new insights for immunomodulatory strategies.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are among the most common bacterial infections, yet the genetic factors influencing susceptibility remain poorly understood. We performed a genome-wide association study of recurrent UTI involving 1,860,836 individuals (213,869 cases and 1,646,967 controls). We identified 36 independent non-HLA genome-wide significant loci encoding kidney epithelial and immune response genes and demonstrated that some loci have sex-specific effects. Integrative functional annotation, expression and protein quantitative trait locus colocalization, and single-cell multi-omic analyses revealed that UTI risk alleles preferentially modulated gene expression in kidney, ureter, and bladder epithelia. Multi-omic prioritization converged on a number of pathogenic pathways: epithelial barrier and mucosal glycocalyx defense (PSCA, UMOD, CLPTM1L, FUT2), innate immune regulation (FES, PTPRC, NEK7, HOTAIR, NFATC1, BTN3A2), infection resolution and regulated cell death (STK3, CASP7, TAX1BP1, ZFP36L2), epithelial identity maintenance (GLIS2, CLDN10, ZFHX3, SPDEF, MPP7), urinary tract development (FGFR2, BMP7, HGF, MET, HOXA9, TSHZ2, WNT7B/LINC00899), and nutritional immunity through iron sequestration (SLC11A2, FAM210B, RPS10). Approximately one-third of loci colocalized with gene expression in kidney tubules, suggesting direct modulation of epithelial host-defense programs. Among all loci, PSCA, which encodes a GPI-anchored epithelial surface protein expressed in the kidney papilla and urinary tract epithelia, emerged as the strongest candidate causal gene. We demonstrated that PSCA was secreted into urine, bound uropathogenic E. coli, and inhibited bacterial growth in vitro, implicating it as a constitutive epithelial defense factor. We also demonstrated that while PSCA was protective against urinary infections and duodenal ulcers, it was associated with increased risk of bladder, prostate, and gastric cancers, suggesting antagonistic pleiotropy between mucosal defenses and oncogenesis. Together, our findings define the polygenic architecture of UTI susceptibility, highlighting epithelial surface defense, innate immune regulation, developmental patterning, and nutritional immunity as central components of host defense, providing a new framework for host-directed, non-antibiotic interventions.
Although a cross-sectional relation between the atherogenic index of plasma (AIP) and gout has been well documented, the causal roles of its principal components, TG and HDL-C, have not yet been clearly established. Therefore, this study sought to explicate the causal relations between AIP, its individual constituents, and the risk of gout, as well as to investigate the potential molecular mechanisms underlying these associations.We adopted an integrated analytical pipeline. First, mediation and cross-sectional analyses were carried out to quantify the phenotypic associations of TG, HDL-C, and AIP with gout. Second, both multivariable and univariable Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses were applied to assess causal directions. Finally, a network pharmacology approach was applied to construct interaction networks linking lipid-related factors with gout, and subsequent enrichment analyses were done to identify the main biological pathways involved and key genes were identified using the Icelandic database's pQTLs.AIP showed a significant positive link with gout prevalence (OR = 1.700, p = 0.010), with this relationship being mediated mainly by HDL-C (45.19%), rather than TG or LDL-C. Univariable MR analyses indicated that TG exerted a substantial causal effect on gout risk (OR = 1.0058, p < 0.001). Although univariable MR showed a nominally protective association for HDLC (OR = 0.623, 95% CI: 0.399-0.974, p = 0.042), this effect was attenuated and became statistically nonsignificant after multivariable adjustment for other lipid traits (p > 0.05). After adjustment for genetic correlations in multivariable MR analyses, TG remained the sole lipid trait with a robust and independent causal effect on gout (OR = 1.0077, p < 0.001), whereas neither HDL-C nor LDL-C reached statistical significance. The TG-specific gout-associated gene set (Group B) was significantly enriched in T-cell receptor and NF-κB signaling pathways, with hub genes including PTPRC, MYD88, and LCK, supporting a direct lipid-immune axis. By contrast, the combined TG/HDL-C gene set (Group F) showed predominant enrichment in PI3K-Akt and cytokine-cytokine receptor pathways, whereas genes uniquely shared between HDL-C and gout (Group C) were mainly enriched in fundamental cellular processes without marked inflammatory pathway involvement.AIP exhibits a non-linear positive association with gout, but this association is primarily mediated by HDL‑C, which itself has no independent causal protective effect. TG may play an independent causal role in gout, potentially involving T‑cell receptor/NF‑κB signaling pathways. However, these findings are exploratory and require further validation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Volatile anesthetics, particularly sevoflurane, have demonstrated cardioprotective properties during cardiac surgery. However, their immunomodulatory mechanisms at the molecular level remain unclear. Given the close relationship between cardiac injury and immune responses, understanding how anesthetic agents influence immune-related pathways may provide new insights into perioperative myocardial protection. This study aimed to explore the immunological and molecular mechanisms underlying the effects of sevoflurane anesthesia on cardiomyocytes in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). Gene expression data (GSE4386) from myocardial tissues of CABG patients anesthetized with sevoflurane or propofol were analyzed. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified using R software, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses. Protein-protein interaction networks were constructed to identify key immune-associated hub genes. A total of 211 DEGs were identified. Functional enrichment revealed that these genes were predominantly associated with immune and inflammatory processes, including leukocyte activation, cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, neutrophil extracellular trap formation, and chemokine signaling pathways. Hub genes such as ITGAM, PTPRC, TYROBP, TLR2, and TLR4 were identified as central immune regulators potentially mediating the cardioprotective and immunomodulatory effects of sevoflurane. Sevoflurane anesthesia may confer myocardial protection after CABG by modulating immune-related signaling pathways and inflammatory gene expression. These findings highlight the immunoregulatory potential of volatile anesthetics, providing novel perspectives for immune-targeted strategies in perioperative cardiac management.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic inflammatory skin disorder involving complex interactions among multiple cell types. The cellular heterogeneity and intercellular communication networks driving AD pathogenesis remain to be fully elucidated.Single-cell RNA sequencing datasets were employed to identify cell types in lesional skin of AD patients and analyze the transcriptomic characteristics of keratinocytes, T cells, and macrophages. Cell clusters were identified based on marker gene expression, and intercellular communication networks were analyzed to investigate cell-cell interactions. The findings were validated using in vitro cell models (HaCaT, HEK, primary keratinocytes, and THP-1 cells) and an MC903-induced AD mouse model, with MIF expression assessed by qPCR and Luminex. Immunofluorescence staining was used to evaluate the distribution and aggregation of macrophages. Functional studies were conducted using MIF098 to inhibit MIF signaling.scRNA-seq revealed significant cellular remodeling in AD lesions, with marked enrichment of keratinocytes, T cells, and macrophages. The proportion of Th2 cells was increased in AD lesion tissues, and an MRC1+ macrophage subset (Cluster3-Mac) was specifically enriched in AD lesions. Intercellular communication analysis demonstrated that proliferative keratinocytes may interact with Cluster3-Macrophages via the MIF-CD74/CD44 signaling axis, with proliferative keratinocytes acting as senders and macrophages as receivers. Furthermore, MRC1+ macrophages may engage with Th2 cells through PTPRC. Consistent with these findings, MIF expression was significantly upregulated in the serum of AD patients, in IL-13-treated HaCaT and HEK cells, and in the epithelial tissues of AD model mice. In the MC903-induced AD mouse model, lesional skin showed epidermal thickening, inflammatory infiltration, and accumulation of M2-polarized macrophages (F4/80+CD206+). Functional validation using MIF098 showed that inhibition of MIF downregulated its expression in primary keratinocytes and reduced the ability of THP-1 cells to secrete CCL17, CCL22, and IL-10.Our findings identify a critical role for the MIF signaling axis in mediating crosstalk between proliferative keratinocytes and M2-polarized macrophages, thereby promoting Th2-driven inflammation in AD. Targeting MIF may represent a potential therapeutic strategy for AD.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Nearly half of patients with melanoma do not respond to immune checkpoint inhibitors (CPIs) and many develop immune-related adverse events (irAEs), often forcing treatment discontinuation, and underscoring the need to predict and monitor outcomes. Responses may depend on both B cell and T cell activity.We performed high-dimensional mass cytometry profiling of coexisting peripheral B cell and key T cell states in treatment-naïve patients and healthy individuals, and paired longitudinal samples from CPI-treated patients, with clinical annotations to define immune correlates of outcomes.CPI-naive patients exhibited reduced CD19+ B cells, reduced B cell (CD21, IL-2, CXCR5) and T cell (CD38, CD27) activation markers, alongside enriched naïve (CD21lo) and double-negative (DN2)-like B cells, CD95+IL-10+plasmablasts, consistent with extrafollicular responses. Concurrently, programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1)+ and proliferation marker protein-67 (Ki67)+ T cell expansion indicates ongoing activation with features of proliferative exhaustion. Active disease featured increased regulatory CD95 expression on B cells and expanded T follicular helper-like and activated DN (CD4-CD8-) T cells, indicating sustained antigen stimulation. Pretreatment, elevated PD-1+ T cells predicted irAEs, whereas VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor)+TGF-β (transforming growth factor-β)+ DN T cells were enriched in patients without subsequent toxicity. Pretreatment, plasmablasts, transitional B cells, Forkhead box protein P3 (FoxP3)+ and central memory-like CD8+ T cells correlated with worse overall survival; naïve CD21lo B cells, PD-1+CD8+ T cells and CD4+follicular helper-like T cells predicted shorter event-free survival; CD4+ memory T cells predicted better prognosis, implicating dysregulated differentiation and sustained activation in adverse outcomes. On-treatment, naïve CD21hi B cells, plasmablasts, activated CD8+ and central memory-like CD4+ T cells expanded, indicating de novo humoral responses and cytotoxic T cell invigoration. On-treatment, increased class-switched memory (IgG2+) B and activated T cells predicted improved survival, while persistent naïve and DN B cells were associated with poorer outcomes. Anti-PD-1 monotherapy expanded naïve (CD21hi) B cells and global T cells. Anti-PD-1/anti-LAG-3 (lymphocyte-activation gene 3) combination contracted memory B cells.Melanoma displays aberrant peripheral B and T cell activation, maturation and exhaustion, prominent in active disease. Treatment-induced class-switched B cells and T cell invigoration predict clinical benefit and naïve/DN B cells signify resistance. Coordinated B and T cell responses, especially recurrent extrafollicular B cell and exhausted/regulatory T cell states emerge as candidate indicators of outcome.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published by BMJ Group.
Mitochondria activate immunity, but the role in cancer is unknown. Here, we report that transgenic expression of Parkin, a regulator of mitochondrial fitness, induces inflammation and interferon (IFN) gene signatures, suppresses prostate cancer formation and generates CD8+ and CD20+ intraprostatic immune aggregates. These had hallmarks of mature tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS), expressing markers of B cell maturation (CXCL13, CCL21), germinal center formation (BCL6, GL7), mature dendritic cells (MHC-II/CD208) and high endothelial venules (LYVE-1). Parkin TLS showed high Ig gene expression, recruitment of CXCR5+ follicular T helper cells and expansion of CD69+/KLRG1+ effector T cells. Conditioned medium from Parkin-positive cells expanded memory B and plasma cells, increased IgG1 production, and sustained B and T cell migration. Finally, conditional expression of Parkin induced TLS formation, upregulated Ig chains and inhibited prostate cancer growth, in vivo, whereas Parkin reconstitution in IFNAR1, CD8 or CD20 knockout mice had no effect. Therefore, mitochondrial immunity orchestrates antitumor responses, and TLS formation contributes to tumor suppression.
Neuroinflammation plays an important role in the pathobiology of Progressive Supranuclear Palsy Syndrome (PSP-S). However, it is not adequately known whether peripheral inflammation correlates to neuroinflammation in PSP-S. This study aimed to examine a link between peripheral and brain inflammation in PSP-S by integrating blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) inflammatory profile and Positron Emission Tomography (PET)-Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) (PET-MRI).Fifty-six PSP-S patients and equal number of healthy controls were recruited. Plasma Th17 pathway cytokine (IL-6, IL-1β, IL-4, IL-10, IL-17A, IL-17F, IL-21, IL-22, IL-23, IL-25, IL-31, IL-33, IFN-γ, sCD40L, and TNF-α) levels were measured in all the study participants. CSF levels of these cytokines were measured only in PSP-S patients. The expressions of NF-κB (Nfkb1, and Nfkb2), inflammasome (Nlrp3, Casp1, and Il18), Th17 (Il1b, Il6, Il17, Tnfa, Il22, Il23, Rorc, and Stat3) and anti-inflammatory (Tgfb, and Il10) genes were quantified in all the study participants. PET-MRI was carried out in a subset of PSP-S patients (n=12) and eleven disease controls (Parkinson's Disease=7, and Multiple System Atrophy=4).Inflammasome (Casp1 and Il18), NF-κB (Nfkb1) and inflammatory (Il1b and Il6) genes were upregulated in PSP-S patients. Plasma IL-1β, IL-6, IL-17A, and IL-17F levels were significantly elevated in PSP-S patients. IL-1β levels significantly correlated between plasma and CSF. PET-MRI indicated neuroinflammation in several brain regions of PSP-S patients.Both systemic inflammation and neuroinflammation are evident in PSP-S. The positive correlation of higher plasma IL-1β levels with neuroinflammation provides preliminary evidence towards the influence of specific peripheral inflammatory molecule on neuroinflammatory basis of PSP-S. The altered immune elements of the current study further reinforce the pathogenic relevance of immune-inflammatory pathways in PSP-S pathobiology.Copyright © 2026 Dey, Kumar, Kumar, Kavya, Mondal, Holla, Kamble, Mahale, Pal, Yadav and Debnath.
Vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) senescence contributes importantly to atherosclerotic plaque progression, yet the upstream mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Here, by integrating single-cell RNA sequencing analysis with human plaque validation, we found that TGFBR1 is enriched in senescent VSMCs in atherosclerotic lesions and correlates with senescence-associated markers. In vivo, VSMC-specific TGFBR1 knockin in Apoe-deficient mice accelerated plaque development and increased VSMC senescence. Mechanistically, we identified the deubiquitinase USP5 as a previously unrecognized stabilizer of TGFBR1. USP5 directly interacted with TGFBR1 and selectively removed K48-linked polyubiquitin chains at lysine 213, thereby preventing proteasomal degradation. Stabilized TGFBR1 suppressed the mitochondrial enzyme IDH2, driving a metabolic shift toward glycolysis that sustained apoptosis resistance in senescent VSMCs. Conversely, VSMC-specific knockdown of USP5 reduced TGFBR1 expression, restored IDH2 expression, attenuated glycolytic remodeling, and mitigated atherosclerosis in vivo. Our findings reveal a USP5-TGFBR1-IDH2 axis in which site-specific deubiquitination at K213 links receptor stability to metabolic remodeling and VSMC senescence, identifying USP5 as a potential therapeutic target for atherosclerosis.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ dendritic cells (DCs) are pivotal players in orchestrating anti-tumor immune responses, particularly within tumor tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS). However, their heterogeneity, differentiation trajectories, and clinical relevance in bladder cancer remain incompletely defined. This study integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data (16 bladder cancer patients, 113,905 post-quality-control cells) and spatial transcriptomics to characterize CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets, their differentiation pathways (via Velocyto trajectory analysis), and intercellular crosstalk (via receptor-ligand mapping). A risk model (DTscore) was constructed using marker genes of these cells and validated in the IMvigor210 (atezolizumab-treated bladder cancer) and TCGA-BLCA cohorts. scRNA-seq clustering identified 10 immune and 3 nonimmune cell types, with T cells stratified into 8 subpopulations (including CD4+CXCL13+ T cells and CD8+CXCL13+ T cells) and DCs into 9 subgroups (including LAMP3+ DCs). Receptor-ligand mapping and spatial transcriptomics confirmed functional crosstalk between CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ DCs via key pairs (e.g., CCR7-CCL19, CXCR5-CXCL13, PDCD1-CD274) within TLS. The DTscore was developed using 8 marker genes (TSHZ2, ALOX5AP, GADD45G, TXN, CHN1, CCL19, CXCL13, ICA1) and exhibited robust prognostic and predictive performance: In the IMvigor210 cohort, high DTscore correlated with significantly poorer overall survival (OS) and a 3.27-fold lower immunotherapy response rate (11% vs. 36%, p = 4.23e-07); multivariate Cox regression confirmed DTscore as an independent OS predictor (hazard ratio = 1.97, p < 0.001). DTscore retained prognostic value in TCGA-BLCA (OS: p = 0.003; disease-specific survival: p < 0.001) and effectively predicted atezolizumab response even in the "immune desert" phenotype (p = 0.04). Combining DTscore with tumor mutational burden/tumor neoantigen burden yielded an AUC of 0.8122 for response prediction. Additionally, high DTscore was associated with higher OS hazard ratios in patients with wild-type TTN, RB1, EP300, or FGFR3 (all p < 0.01), while FGFR3 mutations correlated with lower immune checkpoint/CXCL13 expression. This study delineates the heterogeneity and interactions of CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets in bladder cancer TLS and validates DTscore as a robust tool for predicting OS and immunotherapy response, offering a potential guide for personalized bladder cancer treatment.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
While classical tumor suppressors in colorectal cancer (CRC) are predominantly recognized for restraining cell-autonomous proliferation, their extrinsic mandate in orchestrating the tumor immunometabolic niche remains poorly defined. Clinically, we document that APC membrane recruitment protein 1 (AMER1) downregulation correlates with advanced progression and cytotoxic CD8+ T cell spatial exclusion in CRC patients. Using parallel homograft models in diverse host immune backgrounds, we show that tumoral AMER1 confers robust in vivo tumor-suppressive effects that are dependent on a fully functional immune system. Single-cell RNA sequencing reveals that tumoral AMER1 enrichment actively preserves CD8+ T cell effector stemness by expanding the CXCR5+ precursor exhausted subset (Tpex) across regional lymph nodes and primary tumor microenvironments. Integrated multi-omics and biochemical tracking identify dopamine (DA) as the conserved neurometabolic effector driving this niche remodeling. Mechanistically, AMER1 physically binds and rescues dopa decarboxylase (DDC) from post-translational degradation to sustain tumoral DA secretion; conversely, AMER1 loss creates a localized DA void. Cell-autonomously, tumoral DA accumulation triggers gasdermin D (GSDMD)-dependent tumor pyroptosis. Therapeutically, local DA administration halts multi-lineage carcinoma progression by reversing CD8+ T cell terminal exhaustion and reinforcing central memory differentiation. Collectively, our findings redefine AMER1 as a critical immunometabolic gatekeeper and establish neurotransmitter metabolic bypassing as a promising therapeutic strategy for CRC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42545806 is a review article
Functional constipation is a common disorder of gut-brain interaction that substantially affects bowel function, psychological well-being, and quality of life. Probiotic supplementation represents a microbiota-targeted nutritional strategy for functional constipation, but associated host-response signals remain incompletely understood.This single-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial enrolled 104 adults who met the Rome IV criteria for functional constipation. Participants received either Lactiplantibacillus plantarum Probio87 or placebo for 8 weeks, followed by a 4-week post-intervention follow-up. The primary endpoint was weekly complete spontaneous bowel movements. Secondary outcomes included Rome IV symptom scores, PAC-QOL, HAMD-24, safety parameters, and exploratory whole-blood gene-expression profiles related to inflammation, immune regulation, neuroendocrine signaling, and gut motility. The trial was registered in the Chinese Clinical Trial Registry (ChiCTR2300075360).Probio87 supplementation significantly increased weekly complete spontaneous bowel movements compared with placebo at Week 8 and Week 12. Improvements were also observed in Rome IV symptom scores, constipation-related quality of life, and HAMD-24 domains related to anxiety, sleep, and retardation. Exploratory whole-blood gene-expression analysis showed differential host-response signals after intervention, characterized by increased BDNF expression and reduced expression of IL-1β, CD117, CXCR5, IDO1, DBH, and MLNR in the probiotic group relative to placebo. No intervention-related adverse events or clinically relevant abnormalities in hematological, hepatic, or renal safety parameters were observed.L. plantarum Probio87 supplementation was associated with sustained improvement in bowel function, constipation-related quality of life, and psychological well-being in adults with functional constipation. Exploratory peripheral gene-expression findings suggest that inflammatory, immune, neuroendocrine, and motility-related host-response pathways may be involved, although causal mechanisms require further validation.https://www.chictr.org.cn/showproj.html?proj=205514, identifier (ChiCTR2300075360).Copyright © 2026 Zheng, Yang, Zhan, Zhang, Lu, Xie, Zhang, Mageswary, Lee and Liong.
In recent years, the clinical relevance of tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS) in cancer has become increasingly clear. However, the mechanisms that promote TLS development have remained obscure, largely because of a lack of animal models in which cause and effect studies can be performed. In this study, we used a mouse model in which TLS develop spontaneously in intraperitoneal tumors to address this issue.Cxcl13-cre-tdTomato mice were implanted with B16-OVA melanoma tumors in either intraperitoneal or subcutaneous locations to establish which cells expressed CXCL13. Single cell suspensions from tumors were analyzed by flow cytometry. To address the impact of CXCL13+ CAF on TLS formation, we bred Cxcl13-cre tdTomato mice to R26R-iDTRflox mice, which express the diphtheria toxin receptor under the control of a floxed stop codon. The resulting Cxcl13-cre/iDTR mice were treated with diphtheria toxin beginning on day 7 after IP tumor implantation. Single cell suspensions from tumors were analyzed by flow cytometry. To characterize their functional properties, CAF in IP melanoma tumors from Cxcl13-cre/eGFP mice were collected by cell sorting, analyzed for transcript expression using scRNA-seq, clustered into groups using the Seurat package, and profiled using pathway analysis and differential gene analysis.Extending earlier studies in which we showed that CXCR5-expressing B cells are essential for TLS development, we found that CXCL13, the ligand for CXCR5, were expressed exclusively by a population of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAF), and that these CAF were essential to promote B cell accumulation in these tumors. In keeping with earlier work showing that the presence of TLS was associated with smaller tumor size, we also found that the lack of B cell accumulation was associated with larger tumor size. Using scRNA-seq, we identified 7 groups of CAF in TLS containing tumors. One of these CAF groups was substantially enriched for CXCL13-expressing cells. This population was also enriched for additional genes that could promote B cell recruitment and enable regulation by a variety of cytokines. However, other genes that we have shown or hypothesize to be important in TLS development were enriched for expression in other CAF groups.This work indicates that TLS development in this model depends on multiple CAF populations operating at distinct points in the developmental process. Some of these populations appear similar to, but distinct from, those defined in other human and murine tumor models. However, we also discriminated new immunologically relevant populations of CAF, particularly one expressing CXCL13, which we propose acts as a central organizer of tumor-associated TLS.Copyright © 2026 Barnes, Cummings, Perusina Lanfranca, Rodriguez, Stasiak, Ludewig, Dolatshahi and Engelhard.
The endocardium is a major source of coronary angiogenesis and arterialization, through coordinated cell fate transition and migration. However, the transcriptional regulatory network synchronizing cell fate determination and movement remains unclear. Here, we identified transcription factor HAND2 as a key candidate for coronary vascular formation. Endocardial deletion of Hand2 in mice disrupted arterial-venous networks and stunted coronary arteries, paralleling a ventricular noncompaction phenotype. Moreover, deletion of Hand2 produced excessive tip cells with defective movement. RNA-seq analysis revealed enhanced hypoxic metabolic activation but declined TGF-β/p38MAPK-dependent endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition (Endo-MT). In consistence, genetic inhibition of the core hypoxic regulators or pharmaceutical administration of TGFβ2 partially recovered the coronary arterial defects in Hand2 mutants. Furthermore, HAND2 was found directly bound to promoters of the target genes, harmonizing cell migration and cell fate transition. These findings pinpoint HAND2 as an essential regulator of the endocardial transcriptional regulatory network for coronary arterialization and provide potential therapeutic targets for coronary artery diseases.
Classic Hodgkin lymphoma (CHL) is a highly curable disease. However, a subset of patients develops relapsed/refractory disease, underscoring the need for predictors of treatment response. Although immune-checkpoint inhibitors have improved outcomes, many patients still experience suboptimal responses. A deeper understanding of the CHL transcriptomic landscape may improve patient stratification and guide treatment approaches. Targeted mRNA-NGS was performed on formalin-fixed paraffine-embedded CHL-tissue using the HTG EdgeSeq Precision Immune-Oncology Panel (1,392 genes) in treatment-naive and post-chemotherapy relapsed treated with nivolumab-based protocols. Differential gene expression and pathway enrichment analyses were conducted to characterize tumor-intrinsic, and microenvironmental features associated with disease biology and treatment response. Across all CHL samples (n = 25) we observed overexpression of immune-checkpoint and immunoregulatory genes (CD274, CTLA-4, IL6, IL13), and markers of macrophage-rich/matrix-remodeling microenvironment (CD163, MMP2, TIMP1), alongside loss of B-cell identity and tumor suppression programs. Pathways analysis revealed activation of IL6/JAK/STAT3, TNF-α/NF-κB, KRAS-UP, and Inflammatory response, with reduced proliferative and metabolic activity. Immunotherapy non-responders, both in the overall (n = 5; 20%), and the treatment-naïve CHL (n = 2; 12%) displayed a proliferative, cytokine-activated, and immunologically cold phenotype. This includes shared overexpression of FADD, NFKB1, and TGFB1 and downregulation of SMAD7, together with activation of E2F, G2M, MYC, and PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathways and negative enrichment of TNF-α/NF-κB, IL6/JAK/STAT3, and Inflammatory response. Post-chemotherapy relapsed (n = 8) exhibited adaptative immunoregulatory and stress response signatures (IL15, TNFSF18, MAPK8, FUT4), along with reduced immune activation and loss of tumor-suppressor signaling. This study highlights the biological complexity and transcriptional diversity underlying CHL and its tumor microenvironment. Immunotherapy non-responders exhibited an "oncogene-driven" transcriptional profile independent of previous treatment status, whereas responders showed an "inflammatory immune-scape" phenotype, offering insight into mechanisms of resistance. Despite the limited sample size, these findings provide a foundation for larger precision-focused studies aimed at improving outcomes in CHL.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
This study investigated the role of Krüppel-like factor 4 (KLF4) in macrophage-mediated inflammation in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) with psoriasis. KLF4, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases 3 (TIMP3)/a disintegrin and a metalloproteinase domain 17 (ADAM17) levels were measured in skin samples from patients. A diabetic psoriasis-like dermatitis mouse model was established using imiquimod (IMQ) and treated with KLF4-overexpressing lentivirus. Glucose/lipid metabolism, skin pathology, mast cell counts, and inflammatory markers were assessed. Macrophage status was evaluated by F4/80 staining. KLF4 was downregulated in patients with T2DM with psoriasis. In mice with diabetic psoriasis-like dermatitis. KLF4 overexpression improved glucose/lipid metabolism and reduced skin erythema, scaling, thickening, psoriasis area severity index, and mast cell infiltration. KLF4 also decreased inflammation and modulated the TIMP3/ADAM17 pathway. These findings indicate that KLF4 ameliorates IMQ-induced inflammation via the TIMP3/ADAM17 pathway in diabetic psoriasis-like dermatitis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42521126 is a review article
Congenital heart defects (CHD) constitute a prevalent group of structural birth anomalies, characterised by substantial genetic heterogeneity and diverse clinical phenotypes.To investigate the underlying genetic architecture, we performed whole-genome sequencing (WGS) in a cohort of 50 patients with echocardiographically confirmed CHD, followed by systematic variant identification and functional annotation.Our analysis reveals the limited discriminatory capacity of current genomic annotation databases and underscores the necessity of stratifying genetic risk assessments by specific CHD subtypes. By integrating clinical classifications, genomic data, and tissue-specific expression profiles, we identified novel coding and non-coding variants alongside putative regulatory signals that may contribute to CHD pathogenesis. Within cardiac-specific genes, we identified CHD subtype-specific genetic associations, including JARID2 with PDA, GOSR2/TBX18 with VSD, PCDHA9 with ASD, and a multi-gene signature (CREBBP, ZFPM2, SLC27A6, ADAM17, ETS1) with atrioventricular septal defects. Among coding variants in non-CHD-associated genes, we identified COL11A2 and PCOLCE2 as plausible collagen-related candidates for CHD pathogenesis.These findings reinforce the polygenic architecture of CHD and highlight the value of context-aware, phenotype-driven interpretation of genetic variants. Collectively, this study expands the understanding of the genetic landscape underlying congenital heart anomalies and emphasises the need for larger, deeply phenotyped cohorts to translate these preliminary insights into clinically applicable predictors.© 2026 Korobeinikova, Petriaikina, Tychinin, Yudin, Bulaeva, Gyulmamedova, Khugaev, Sukhacheva, Snigir, Mitrofanov, Rumyantseva, Svetlichnyy, Yudin, Golukhova and Skvortsova.
Resistance to CDK4/6 inhibitors (CDK4/6i) combined with endocrine therapy presents a major barrier to improving outcomes in ER+ breast cancer. We identified FADD phosphorylation at Ser194 (phospho-FADD) as a mediator of CDK4/6i resistance in the models examined. Phospho-FADD acted as a pseudosubstrate inhibitor of the APC/C-Cdh1 complex, promoting G1/S transition and bypassing the canonical CDK4/6-Rb-E2F pathway. This CDK4/6-independent pathway was associated with PI3K hyperactivation. Clinical relevance of this bypass pathway was supported by increased phospho-FADD and pAKT in 73% of paired patient biopsies at post-treatment recurrence, while the remaining cases exhibited high baseline phospho-FADD and pAKT with intrinsic non-response. Inhibition of FADD phosphorylation with the CK1α degrader DEG-77, or PI3K inhibition, restored CDK4/6i sensitivity in resistant cells. In CDK4/6i-refractory xenografts, CK1α degradation combined with CDK4/6i resulted in profound tumor regressions and increased progression-free survival compared with either single agent, including complete tumor regressions in 92% of tumors. These findings support CK1α-mediated FADD phosphorylation as a targetable resistance mechanism in a subset of CDK4/6i-resistant ER+/HER2- breast cancer.
SBA, (E)-4-(2-chloro-1-(2-chloro-benzyl)-1H-indol-3-yl)but-3-en-2-one, is a derivative of natural product, named 4,4'-dimethoxychalcone. In this study, the impact of newly synthesized SBA on cell apoptosis was investigated in human oral cancer SCC-4 cells in vitro. The results showed that SBA decreased cell viability, induced S and G2/M phase arrest, and induced apoptosis in SCC-4 cells. SBA also increased ROS production, reduced mitochondrial membrane potential, and activated caspase-9 and caspase-3 in a dose-dependent manner. SBA induced the upregulation of Chk1 and Chk2 expressions, while it resulted in a reduction of cdc2 and Cyclin B1 levels. SBA also increased the levels of Fas, FasL, FADD, caspase-8, and BID. Moreover, it increased the expression of Bad, Bax, cytochrome c, AIF, EndoG, caspase-9, and caspase-3, while reducing the expression of Bcl-2, Bcl-xL, and XIAP in SCC-4 cells. Taken together, these findings suggest that SBA induces cytotoxicity in SCC-4 cells via Fas-FasL- and mitochondria-mediated pathways.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Japan Society for Bioscience, Biotechnology, and Agrochemistry. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site-for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
The overlap between the geographic distribution of COVID-19 outbreaks and pollution levels suggested a strong correlation between exposure to atmospheric particulate matter and an increased risk of developing severe forms of disease. This correlation has been highlighted by several epidemiological studies, indicating the existence of shared molecular mechanisms. Emerging evidence has highlighted the important role of lipid rafts in facilitating viral entry into cells. Specifically, the receptor binding domain of the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein interacts with sialylated glycans of the monosialic ganglioside GM1 and GM2 that are particularly enriched in lipid rafts. This interaction has been proposed to facilitate ACE2 recognition by the spike protein and may contribute to early events involved in viral attachment and entry. Here, we reveal that A549 alveolar lung cells, after DEP exposure, exhibit a significant shift in ACE2 into lipid rafts, accompanied by an increase in the immature form of ADAM17, the sheddase responsible for ACE2 cleavage. Additionally, DEP exposure results in a significant increase in IL-6 release, while no changes were observed in IL-8 and sACE2 release. This treatment does not cause significant alterations in protein levels or membrane redistribution of COX-2 and HO-1, proteins involved in the inflammatory response and oxidative stress following exposure to air pollution, and linked to COVID-19 pathogenesis. Finally, lipidomic analysis by UHPLC-MS revealed that DEP exposure induces a significant increase in GM2 levels, and a concomitant decrease in GM1 and GM3 levels. Together, these results indicate that DEP exposure remodels lipid raft-associated molecular features in A549 cells, including ACE2 membrane redistribution, altered ganglioside composition, and increased IL-6 release. Although these changes may be relevant to cellular mechanisms associated with SARS-CoV-2 susceptibility, the present study does not directly assess viral binding, viral entry, or infection, and further functional studies are required.
Background: Recurrent pregnancy loss (RPL) is frequently linked to antiphospholipid antibodies, yet many affected women are seronegative for the classical (Sydney) criteria antibodies. In a previously characterized cohort, an extended antiphospholipid antibody panel was positive in 79% of women with RPL, with the strongest associations for antibodies against prothrombin, annexin V and β2-glycoprotein I. Whether this association reflects molecular endometrial dysfunction was unclear. Objective: To examine endometrial expression of ten decidualization- and inflammation-related genes in women with RPL, stratified by APL status, focusing on the dominant antibody specificity: anti-β2-glycoprotein I. Methods: Thirty-nine women with RPL (≥2 losses), a subsample of a published 100-patient cohort, underwent mid-luteal Pipelle endometrial biopsy followed by RT-PCR for C4BPA, CXCL1, HAND2, HPRT1, IFNG, IL15, IL8 (CXCL8), MMP10, TNC and VEGFB. Antibodies were measured by antiphospholipid 10 Dot line immunoblot (Generic Assays, Germany). The analysis used Mann-Whitney U, Fisher's exact test, Benjamini-Hochberg correction and ROC analysis. Results: Antibody prevalence in the subsample matched the parent cohort (Pearson r = 0.999). Of ten transcripts, only HAND2 showed a nominally significant reduction in APL+ women (median ΔCt -2.04 vs. -1.30; p = 0.037; rank-biserial r = -0.47); this signal did not survive Benjamini-Hochberg correction (q = 0.372). The signal was specific to anti-β2GPI (p = 0.064; AUC 0.700), not to annexin V or prothrombin. A cut-off of HAND2 ΔCt ≤ -1.60 identified APL+ status with 73% sensitivity, 78% specificity and OR 9.62 (95% CI 1.64-56.4; p = 0.015). HAND2 clustered with IL15 (ρ = 0.65) and VEGFB (ρ = 0.70). Conclusions: Anti-β2-glycoprotein I antibodies, the dominant APL specificity in RPL, are associated with reduced endometrial HAND2 expression. This exploratory data outline a candidate molecular pathway linking extended antiphospholipid serology to impaired endometrial receptivity.
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) progression results from complex interactions between metabolic stress, inflammatory activation, maladaptive intracellular signalling, and fibrotic remodelling. While previous studies demonstrated renoprotective effects of cell-specific Adam17 deletion, the impact of global Adam17 deficiency on the integrated renal response to diabetes remains incompletely understood. Here, we investigated the effects of tamoxifen-induced global Adam17 deletion in a streptozotocin-induced murine model of type 1 diabetes. Renal function, structural injury, inflammatory responses, stress-related signalling pathways, and fibrotic remodelling were comprehensively assessed in diabetic Adam17 knockout and control mice. Despite persistent hyperglycemia and ongoing albuminuria, diabetic Adam17 knockout mice exhibited preservation of glomerular filtration rate together with marked attenuation of diabetes-associated kidney injury. Global Adam17 deletion reduced mesangial expansion and structural damage, limited macrophage infiltration and chemokine expression, and significantly attenuated fibrotic remodelling. At the molecular level, Adam17 deficiency was associated with selective modulation of stress-related signalling pathways, including reduced activation of the PI3K/Akt axis and partial preservation of mitochondrial stress regulators, without evidence of generalized suppression of cellular stress responses. Notably, preservation of renal function occurred despite persistent albuminuria, supporting a partial dissociation between glomerular permeability alterations and progressive renal dysfunction. These findings demonstrate that global Adam17 deletion confers robust protection against diabetes-associated kidney injury through coordinated attenuation of inflammatory, stress-related, and profibrotic pathways. Our results extend previous cell-specific observations and highlight the context-dependent role of Adam17 in DKD progression, supporting the concept that integrated Adam17-related signalling may represent a relevant therapeutic target in diabetic kidney disease.
Hypoxic pulmonary hypertension (HPH), a severe complication of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, features pulmonary vascular remodeling driven by dysregulated pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cell (PASMC) apoptosis, with limited therapies like vasodilators offering only modest hemodynamic benefits. This study aimed to elucidate the role of Midkine (MK) in regulating PASMC apoptosis via the Notch2 pathway and its potential as a novel anti-remodeling target in HPH progression.The experimental approach involved cellular and animal models. In vitro, PASMCs were exposed to hypoxia (1% O2, 48 h), and MK was silenced via lentiviral shRNA (shRNA-413, ∼85% knockdown). Cellular phenotypes were assessed using Cell Counting Kit-8 assays for proliferation, wound healing assays for migration, and flow cytometry for apoptosis. Molecular analyses (quantitative polymerase chain reaction and western blot) targeted apoptosis-related proteins and Notch2 signaling. In vivo, HPH was induced in rats by LPS plus chronic hypoxia/smoke exposure; MK was inhibited via intratracheal adeno-associated virus serotype 9-mediated gene delivery (AAV9-shRNA (1.5 × 1011 vg/rat). Outcomes included hemodynamics, vascular remodeling, oxidative stress markers, and apoptosis-related protein expression in lung tissue.In vitro, hypoxia upregulated MK, activating Notch2-Hes1 signaling, promoting proliferation and migration at 48 h, and suppressing apoptosis (P < 0.01 vs. normoxia). MK knockdown reversed these effects, restoring apoptosis (P < 0.01). In vivo, HPH activated the MK-Notch2 axis in rat lung tissue; MK suppression inhibited Notch2 signaling, improved antioxidant capacity, alleviated oxidative stress (e.g., elevated SOD/CAT, reduced MDA/LDH; P < 0.01), induced PASMC apoptosis, attenuated vascular remodeling, and reduced pulmonary arterial pressure.Unlike current vasodilators, MK drives HPH pathogenesis by suppressing PASMC apoptosis via Notch2 and exacerbating oxidative stress. Targeting MK offers a promising therapeutic strategy for HPH.Copyright © 2026 Zhu, Li, Wang, Huang, Peng, Wu, Liao, Wei, Zhong, Jin and Deng.
The mammalian auditory sensory epithelium consists of hair cells (HCs), whose stereociliary bundles convert sound-evoked vibrations into electrical signals, and supporting cells (SCs), which provide mechanical stability. The transcription factor SIX1 is essential during otic neurosensory cell specification and HC commitment, but its contribution after birth has remained elusive. Here, we show that SIX1 is required for maintaining the structure and function of the adult cochlear sensory epithelium. Conditional deletion of Six1 in SCs or HCs of young adult mice causes profound deafness. SC-specific deletion disrupts epithelial organization and promotes SC loss with secondary HC degeneration, whereas HC-specific loss results in stereociliary-bundle defects and progressive HC death. To define early molecular defects, we performed single-nucleus RNA-seq before widespread degeneration and found early collapse of mature HC identity and functional gene programs, including mechanotransduction, stereociliary-bundle, and synaptic networks. SIX1 ChIP-seq analysis in the mature cochleamapped SIX1 occupancy at regulatory elements near genes involved in epithelial junctions, actin/cytoskeletal regulation, ion transport, mechanotransduction, and cell survival, and overlapped with a subset of Six1-dependent transcripts and deafness loci. Together, these results identify SIX1 as a key transcriptional regulator of adult cochlear homeostasis and reveal downstream gene networks that preserve sensory epithelial integrity and hearing throughout life.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) exhibits stem-like characteristics that drive tumor aggressiveness and treatment resistance. The molecular chaperone Glucose-Regulated Protein 78 (GRP78) is substantially elevated in NSCLC compared to normal tissues and cell lines. In clinical samples, GRP78 protein levels correlated with advanced tumor stage and lymph node metastasis. Pharmacological inhibition of GRP78 using BAPTA-AM and GRP78-IN-3 significantly suppressed NSCLC cell viability while promoting apoptosis. The inhibitors effectively attenuated cell migration by downregulating matrix metalloproteinases and reversed epithelial-mesenchymal transition by modulating key cadherin expression profiles. Importantly, GRP78 inhibition substantially reduced cancer stem cell markers and impaired spheroid formation capability. Genetic knockdown of GRP78 in A549 and H1975 cells recapitulated the effects of pharmacological inhibition, reducing cell migration, reversing EMT, attenuating stemness, and suppressing β-catenin signaling. Conversely, GRP78 overexpression in A549 and H1975 cells induced opposite effects, promoting mesenchymal markers, enhancing stemness proteins, and increasing spheroid size. Mechanistic studies revealed that this anti-tumor activity operates through suppression of β-catenin signaling mediated by SIX1, as evidenced by SIX1-overexpression rescue experiments. These findings demonstrate that GRP78 acts as a key regulator of NSCLC stemness and metastatic potential by coordinating epithelial plasticity and stemness pathways, positioning it as a promising therapeutic target for NSCLC treatment.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Nuclear export of mRNA is one of the key stages of gene expression in eukaryotes. A wide range of mRNAs is exported by the TREX-2 complex, which includes the PCID2 RNA-binding protein. Previously, we showed that PCID2 is responsible for specific recognition of transcripts, and we identified its binding site on the Drosophila ras2 gene mRNA within the 3'-non-coding region. However, the interaction was not localized for other mRNAs, which makes it impossible to identify the general patterns of PCID2 interaction with mRNA. In this work, we investigated the interaction of PCID2 with the mRNA of the kruppel gene of Drosophila melanogaster. In the EMSA experiments, we showed that PCID2 binds to two fragments of kruppel mRNA, from the 5' non-coding and coding mRNA regions. Thus, the PCID2 binding site can be located not only in the 3'-non-coding region, as in the case of the ras2 mRNA, but also in other mRNA regions. PCID2 has a lower affinity for binding sites in the kruppel mRNA than in the ras2 mRNA. Our analysis of the mRNA structure at three binding sites led to a general interaction model, in which a hairpin-type conformation emerges as the most probable structural motif at these sites.© 2026. Pleiades Publishing, Ltd.
Kashin-Beck disease (KBD) is a chronic, endemic osteoarticular disorder associated with T-2 toxin exposure, which is rapidly metabolized to HT-2 toxin in vivo. However, the role of zinc transporter ZIP6 in HT-2 toxin-induced extracellular matrix metabolic disturbance in chondrocytes remains unclear. This study established HT-2 toxin intervention and ZIP6 knockdown chondrocyte models, combined with quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and transcriptome sequencing, to investigate the regulatory mechanisms of ZIP6 in chondrocyte injury. Following HT-2 toxin exposure, altered chondrocyte morphology and reduced cell viability were observed; ZIP6, COL2A1, MTF1, and MTF2 expression were significantly downregulated, whereas MMP1, MMP13, and COL10A1 were upregulated. ZIP6 knockdown significantly upregulated COL2A1, MTF1, and MTF2, downregulated MMP1 and COL10A1, but did not alter MMP13 expression. Differentially expressed genes following ZIP6 knockdown were predominantly enriched in FoxO, cAMP, and TNF signaling pathways. qRT-PCR validation confirmed consistent expression changes in FOXO4, TNFSF10, COLEC10, UCA1, and LRRC17 with transcriptome sequencing results. Collectively, HT-2 toxin suppresses ZIP6, MTF1, and MTF2 expression, disrupting chondrocyte extracellular matrix metabolism; conversely, ZIP6 knockdown ameliorates matrix metabolic abnormalities through modulation of relevant signaling pathways. These findings reveal differential regulatory effects of HT-2 toxin and ZIP6 on cartilage matrix metabolism, providing experimental evidence for elucidating molecular mechanisms underlying cartilage injury-related diseases.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Biochemical and Molecular Toxicology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Recent research indicates that the senescence of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) disrupts the osteo-adipogenic balance, a primary factor contributing to the development of osteoporosis. Our previous findings have implicated methyltransferases in this process, among which methyltransferase-like 13 (METTL13) has been established to regulate cell fate, although its role in osteoporosis has yet to be determined.Bone formation was assessed using micro-computed tomography and hematoxylin and eosin staining. Protein expression in bone tissues was examined immunohistochemically, and cellular mRNA and protein levels were determined using quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and western blotting. Cellular senescence was evaluated based on β-galactosidase staining, and osteogenic and adipogenic differentiation was examined using alkaline phosphatase, Alizarin Red S, and Oil Red O staining. Protein interactions and DNA binding were determined using co-immunoprecipitation and chromatin immunoprecipitation.METTL13 expression was significantly enhanced in ovariectomy-induced senescent bone and BMSCs, whereas METTL13 knockdown markedly reversed etoposide-induced cellular senescence. By binding to forkhead box protein A1 (Foxa1), METTL13 promotes the preferential differentiation of BMSCs into adipocytes, as opposed to osteocytes. Moreover, Foxa1 had effects opposite to those of METTL13 on BMSC differentiation, inhibiting the nuclear entry of METTL13. Notably, blocking the nuclear import of Foxa1 suppressed the transcriptional expression of HES-1, which promoted the adipogenic differentiation of BMSCs and inhibited osteogenic differentiation.Our findings in this study revealed the mechanisms whereby METTL13 promotes BMSC senescence and disrupts BMSC differentiation, on the basis of which, we identified the METTL13-Foxa1-HES-1 axis as a potential therapeutic target for treatment of osteoporosis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Inflammation of the small intestine can be caused by infections, immune-mediated disorders (such as celiac disease) and medications, leading to malabsorption, chronic diarrhea, and subclinical alterations including increased gut permeability and systemic inflammation. It has been suggested that probiotics can restore barrier integrity and reduce inflammation. The objective of the present study was to evaluate the effects of the probiotic yeast Saccharomyces boulardii CNCM I-745 (Sb) in a mouse model of sterile, inflammation-induced enteropathy based on intragastric administration of the gliadin peptide p31-43. Challenge with this peptide induces histological changes in the small intestinal mucosa, causes an elevation in inflammatory markers, and promotes cell death.The mice were challenged with a single dose of p31-43 or multiple doses over a three-week period, with or without Sb coadministration. Intestinal damage was assessed with regard to histologic features, mRNA gene expression (using RT-qPCR assays), caspase-1 activation (using Western blots), and cell death (using TUNEL reaction).Compared with mice treated with single or repeated doses of p31-43 alone, concomitant Sb treatment was associated with significantly better histological parameters, with restoration of the villus-height-to-crypt-depth ratio and less intraepithelial lymphocyte infiltration. Sb prevented the p31-43-induced upregulation of Cxcl10 expression. A Western blot analysis demonstrated that Sb attenuated caspase-1 activation, which indicated the suppression of p31-43-induced inflammasome activation. Furthermore, Sb prevented the increase in cell death observed following p31-43 treatment. No differences in goblet cell numbers were observed. However, Muc2 mRNA expression was upregulated following p31-43 treatment alone or in combination with Sb. Similarly, the analysis of the expression of markers associated with epithelial cell proliferation and differentiation (Atoh1 and Hes1) suggested a potential shift toward enhanced differentiation of secretory epithelial cells. In conclusion, Saccharomyces boulardii CNCM I-745 significantly attenuated mucosal damage, inflammation, and cell death in a murine model of small intestinal inflammation. These results suggest that Sb has the potential to prevent or alleviate inflammation-induced damage to the small intestine and underscore the importance of probiotic yeasts and the mycobiome in modulating host responses in the gut. Clinical evaluation in celiac disease and related disorders is now warranted.Copyright © 2026 Lezcano, Miculan, Ducca, Ruera, Iribarren, Tixador, Roux and Chirdo.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42509095 is a review article
Protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 14 (PTPN14) exhibits dual roles in cancer, acting as either a tumor suppressor or oncogene depending on context, while its role in colon adenocarcinoma (COAD) and liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC) remains unclear. Since COAD and LIHC showed high incidence and mortality rates, we investigated PTPN14's prognostic and mechanistic significance in COAD and LIHC. Pan-cancer analysis were performed based on TCGA and GEO database. Clinical validation used IHC staining of 50 COAD and 40 LIHC specimens. In vitro functional assays and in vivo xenograft models assessed PTPN14's impact on proliferation, migration, invasion and tumorigenicity. Mechanistic studies included Co-IP, immunofluorescence, ubiquitination assay and Western blot to evaluate PTPN14-Notch1 interaction and pathway regulation. As a result, pan-cancer analysis identified PTPN14 as prognostic biomarker in COAD and LIHC. Clinical validation confirmed PTPN14 as a prognostic biomarker in COAD and LIHC and associated with survival and TNM stage progression. In vitro experiments revealed knockdown of PTPN14 suppressed the proliferation, migration and invasion of COAD and LIHC cell lines. PTPN14 stabilized Notch1 by competitively binding to prevent FBXW7-mediated ubiquitination, and increasing the expression of Notch1 intracellular domain (Notch1 ICD) and downstream targets (DLL1 and HES1). At last, in vivo experiments revealed knockdown of PTPN14 inhibited xenograft tumor formation in COAD and LIHC cell lines. In conclusion, PTPN14 drives COAD and LIHC progression via Notch signaling stabilization, serving as a prognostic biomarker and potential therapeutic target for COAD and LIHC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
During sepsis, multiple pathogenic factors - including hyperinflammatory responses, gut dysbiosis, and immune cell dysfunction - collectively compromise intestinal barrier integrity, thereby exacerbating disease progression. In this research, we have elucidated the in vivo therapeutic efficacy of Jiawei Taohe Chengqi Decoction (JTCD) in ameliorating sepsis-induced intestinal injury and elucidated its underlying molecular mechanisms.The septic mice model was established to assess the pharmacological impact of JTCD and Taohe Chengqi Decoction (THCQD) in vivo. Network pharmacology analysis of the active components of JTCD was performed. Intestinal permeability was assessed by measuring FITC-Dextran flux, while tissue morphology and pathology were examined by H&E staining. The level of IL-6, IL-1β, TNF-α DAO, D-LA, I-FABP, IL-10 and IL-4 were evaluated by the corresponding ELISA kit. The expression of ZO-1, Claudin-1, Notch1, Jagged1 and HES1 was assessed by western blot. Immunofluorescence was applied to assess the expression of F4/80, iNOS, CD206 and Notch1. The cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) was employed to evaluate the viability. Flow cytometry was applied to quantify the populations of F4/80 + CD86+ and F4/80 + CD163+. TEER assay was performed to assess the integrity of intestinal barrier.JTCD ameliorated intestinal barrier dysfunction in septic mice by reducing permeability, mitigating histopathological damage, lowering serum injury biomarkers, and upregulating tight junction proteins. JTCD exerted therapeutic effects by modulating the Notch signaling pathway and intestinal macrophage polarization. JTCD attenuated Caco-2 cell barrier injury by regulating macrophage polarization through the Notch signaling pathway.These results demonstrate that JTCD improves intestinal barrier damage in sepsis by modulating Notch-mediated macrophage polarization.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Polycomb group (PcG) proteins safeguard cell identity by maintaining target genes in a transcriptionally repressed state through depositing two histone marks, H2A lysine-119 ubiquitination (H2AK119ub1) and H3 lysine-27 trimethylation (H3K27me3). BAP1 and UTX are thought to erase these marks during transcription activation, but their exact roles remain unclear. Here we observe a rapid loss of H2AK119ub1, followed by a reduction in H3K27me3 levels at promoters upon transcription induction, coinciding with a swift dissociation of PRCs. With an acute degradation system, we show that neither BAP1 nor UTX is required for transcription activation or the dissolution of PcG repressive marks, though BAP1 depletion leads to elevated steady-state H2AK119ub1 levels. Furthermore, while UTX regulates enhancer activation independently of its demethylase activity, BAP1 contributes to this process through a dual role: its scaffolding function supports MLL4 occupancy at nascent enhancers, while its catalytic activity restricts H2AK119ub1 accumulation that would otherwise impede enhancer maturation. Together, these findings establish that BAP1 and UTX are dispensable for transcription-driven erasure of Polycomb marks but are required for enhancer establishment, with BAP1 acting through coordinated scaffolding and catalytic mechanisms.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Uveal melanoma (UM) is a challenging malignancy, in terms of diagnosis, risk stratification, and treatment associated with high morbidity and mortality rates. It has been demonstrated that E2F-related pathways play a significant role in the tumorigenesis and distant metastasis of UM. In this study, the E2F target-related genes were utilized to construct and validate a prognostic risk score for patients with UM.Using the TCGA-UVM cohort (n = 80), 192 E2F target genes were screened using gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) to identify survival-associated genes. Prognostic genes were filtered using Kaplan-Meier analysis, univariate Cox regression, and LASSO, followed by multivariate Cox regression to construct a risk score model. The model was validated using the GSE22138 cohort (n = 63). Functional annotations of the risk score and its impact on stratifying tumor immune microenvironment components were assessed.A total of 9 genes (CDC25B, NME1, RFC2, PRDX4, NASP, UBE2S, PRKDC, MCM6, and LBR) passed the model construction pipeline. The risk score categorization system showed an independent prognostic power (HR: 2.34, 95% CI: 1.11-4.90, p = 0.025) and a good predictability of the survival outcome (receiver operating characteristic curve analysis: area under the curve = 0.730, 95% CI: 0.60-0.86, p = 0.002). When analyzing the most frequently mutated gene cohorts, the risk score was significantly lower in the mutated subgroups of GNAQ, SF3B1, and EIF1AX. In contrast, the risk score was notably higher in the BAP1 mutated subgroup. Copy number analysis of chromosomal arms showed significant correlations between the risk score and 1q, 3q, 3p, 6p, 8q. The high-risk group showed significant infiltration for NK cells, plasma B cells, gamma delta T cells, follicular T cells, M1 and M2 macrophages with lower infiltration of common myeloid progenitor cells. In addition, the high-risk group showed higher immune and microenvironment scores.The developed E2F target-related gene model offers a robust tool for predicting the prognosis of UM patients. As a potential risk stratification method for UM, this model could have clinical applications pending further evaluation.© 2026 S. Karger AG, Basel.
Pleural mesothelioma (PM) is an aggressive cancer with limited therapeutic options and poor prognosis, necessitating comprehensive model systems for mechanistic studies and drug discovery.Tumor cells were isolated from malignant pleural effusion of PM patients and subjected to primary culture and continuous passaging. Cell lines were successfully established after more than 40 continuous passages in vitro. Cell identification included morphological analysis, species identification, short tandem repeat (STR) profiling, mycoplasma detection, in vitro proliferation assays, in vivo tumorigenicity testing in NOD/SCID mice, and immunohistochemical characterization. Genomic landscapes and transcriptomic profiling were defined by whole-exome, whole-genome sequencing, and RNA-sequencing.Three Chinese-derived pleural mesothelioma cell lines (PUMC-MESO1, PUMC-MESO3, and PUMC-MESO4) were successfully established. All three cell lines exhibited epithelioid morphology with adherent growth patterns. Upon subcutaneous transplantation into NOD/SCID mice, PUMC-MESO1 and PUMC-MESO4 demonstrated tumorigenicity, while PUMC-MESO3 remained non-tumorigenic after 3 months of observation. Histopathological examination confirmed their mesothelioma origin through positive staining for mesothelial markers including calretinin, WT-1, and D2-40. Genomic analysis revealed characteristic PM genomic alterations including mutations in BAP1, NF2, and TP53, along with CDKN2A deletions. Transcriptomic analyses revealed heterogeneous molecular features among the three cell lines. Although the PUMC-MESO cell lines displayed distinct clustering patterns relative to the CCLE mesothelioma cohort, each retained transcriptomic similarities to specific established mesothelioma models. Drug sensitivity assays further demonstrated heterogeneous responses to standard therapeutic agents.This study reports the establishment and characterization of three novel PM cell lines. These models recapitulate key aspects of PM biology, exhibit diverse therapeutic responses, and provide a valuable new resource for investigating disease mechanisms and advancing precision oncology research.© 2026 The Author(s). Thoracic Cancer published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Kidney renal clear cell carcinoma (KIRC) is the most common and aggressive subtype of renal cell carcinoma and is characterized by poor prognosis and high molecular heterogeneity. Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) have emerged as crucial regulators in cancer, yet the functional role of SNHG11 in KIRC remains unclear. In this study, we perform integrated multiomics analysis using data from the TCGA and ICGC cohorts and reveal that SNHG11, a methylation-associated lncRNA, is significantly correlated with poor clinical outcomes. In vitro and in vivo assays demonstrate that SNHG11 promotes tumor proliferation and progression. Mechanistically, SNHG11 enhances oxidative phosphorylation, as evidenced by increased ATP production, disrupted mitochondrial membrane potential, and altered NAD +/NADH ratios. Furthermore, SNHG11 expression is associated with somatic mutation patterns, particularly those involving BAP1 and PBRM1, indicating potential crosstalk between epigenetic regulation and genetic alterations. These findings reveal that SNHG11 is a novel biomarker in KIRC and a potential therapeutic target.
In clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC), stage dominates prognosis, and grading of tubular dedifferentiation depends on observer judgment. We evaluated the Tissue Memory Score (TMS), a continuous measure of retained proximal tubular identity, for independent prognosis, biological validity, platform robustness, and replication.TMS scores a tumor's proximity to the kidney centroid in a locked principal-component space of 2,694 healthy GTEx samples; higher values denote greater kidney identity. The prespecified cohort was TCGA-KIRC (n = 540); a rank-based variant was transferred between platforms. Multivariable Cox regression adjusted for stage, purity, and mutational burden tested the overall-survival association, with a disease-specific analysis. Biological validity used ClearCode34, renal markers, ISUP grade, and BAP1, PBRM1, and SETD2 status. External validation used CPTAC-3 and E-MTAB-1980, pooled by random-effects meta-analysis.TMS was independently associated with overall survival (HR 0.595 per SD; P = 6.6 × 10-5) and improved discrimination over stage (paired ΔC-index 0.0189). The rank-based score reproduced it (Spearman ρ = 0.976), and the association was stronger for disease-specific survival (hazard ratio [HR] 0.43). TMS was higher in ClearCode34 ccA than ccB tumors (Cohen d = 0.93), fell with grade, and separated BAP1-mutant (lower) from PBRM1-mutant (higher) tumors. It replicated in E-MTAB-1980 (HR 0.51; 0.63 stage-adjusted) and was concordant in CPTAC-3 (HR 0.78). In stage II-III disease, 5-year survival differed by 17.3 points by TMS tertile (adjusted HR 0.56).TMS is a platform-robust, biologically anchored measure of proximal tubular identity loss that replicated externally and warrants prospective evaluation for post-nephrectomy ccRCC risk stratification.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
SMARCB1 (INI1)-deficient tumors are rare aggressive neoplasms characterized by biallelic inactivation of the SMARCB1 gene and loss of nuclear INI1 protein expression. Although melanocytic differentiation has occasionally been reported in SMARCB1-deficient tumors, intraocular presentations with histologically confirmed vertebral metastases in adults remain exceptionally uncommon and diagnostically challenging.A 21-year-old woman presented with progressive left retro-orbital pain and visual impairment. Ophthalmologic imaging revealed a choroidal lesion initially suspected to represent uveal melanoma. Enucleation of the left eye demonstrated a highly cellular malignant epithelioid neoplasm arising in the choroid with focal spindle-cell areas, rhabdoid features, marked cytologic atypia, and focal melanocytic differentiation. Immunohistochemistry showed diffuse positivity for S100 and Melan-A, focal HMB45 expression, retained BAP1 expression, and complete loss of INI1 expression. Molecular analysis identified a pathogenic truncating SMARCB1 alteration, c.656C>G, p.(Ser219*), associated with homozygous deletion of the SMARCB1 locus. Additional testing revealed no pathogenic alterations involving canonical uveal melanoma-associated genes, including GNAQ, GNA11, CYSLTR2, SF3B1, EIF1AX, and BAP1. One year after diagnosis, the patient developed multifocal painful vertebral lesions. Histopathological examination of a T8 vertebral biopsy revealed a poorly differentiated malignant neoplasm with extensive necrosis and rhabdoid morphology. Tumor cells demonstrated diffuse S100 positivity, focal HMB45 expression, complete loss of INI1, and absence of epithelial or myogenic differentiation (negative cytokeratins, desmin, and myogenin). Expert pathology review supported metastatic dissemination of a SMARCB1-deficient malignant neoplasm with melanocytic differentiation. The patient received palliative radiotherapy (30 Gy in 10 fractions to D7-D9) followed by systemic chemotherapy with etoposide and ifosfamide. Despite multimodal treatment, progressive disease occurred and the patient died three years after the initial diagnosis.This case expands the clinicopathologic spectrum of SMARCB1-deficient tumors and highlights the diagnostic complexity of neoplasms exhibiting melanocytic differentiation. Integrated histopathologic, immunophenotypic, and molecular assessment is essential to avoid diagnostic misclassification, particularly in unusual intraocular presentations.Copyright © 2026 Al-Hassana, Vincent, Alihonou, Christian, Souleymane, Mohammed and Laurent.
Bohring-Opitz syndrome (BOS, OMIM#605309) is a rare neurodevelopmental disorder caused by heterozygous and truncating variants in ASXL1 (Additional Sex Combs Like 1), a chromatin-associated epigenetic regulator that forms the catalytic PR-DUB complex with BAP1. Truncating ASXL1 variants are also recurrent somatic drivers in myeloid leukemia, yet the metabolic consequences of these mutations remain undefined. Using patient derived dermal fibroblasts, we show that truncating ASXL1 variants drive a Warburg-like metabolic state characterized by increased glycolytic flux, and accumulation of pyruvate and lactate. Truncated ASXL1 and BAP1 show aberrant co-occupancy at an H3K4me3-marked intronic regulatory element within MPC2 intron 1, with broadened ASXL1 occupancy extending beyond BRD4-defined regulatory boundaries while BRD4 positioning remains unchanged, consistent with aberrant PR-DUB complex spreading beyond its normally constrained chromatin territory. This altered occupancy is accompanied by modest but significant reduction in MPC2 transcript abundance and a disproportionately larger reduction in MPC1 and MPC2 protein levels, indicating that transcriptional dysregulation at this intronic element is amplified at the protein level through post-transcriptional mechanisms including impaired MPC1/MPC2 heterodimer stability. Pharmacologic MPC inhibition recapitulates both the metabolic and Wnt signaling phenotypes of BOS cells, while canonical Wnt activation increases glycolytic flux without reducing MPC abundance, establishing mitochondrial pyruvate restriction as causally upstream of signaling dysregulation. These findings define a previously unrecognized chromatin-to-metabolism axis connecting gain-of-function ASXL1 truncation to mitochondrial pyruvate transport, identifying MPC as a central mediator of epigenetic-metabolic crosstalk in both a rare developmental syndrome and ASXL1-mutant myeloid malignancy.
As a member of the RNA-binding motif protein (RBM) family, RBM5 is a characterized tumor suppressor in lung and prostate cancers, with critical roles in alternative splicing of apoptosis- and cell cycle-related genes. However, its direct capacity to regulate gene transcription remains unreported. Here, we identified that RBM5 was significantly downregulated in breast cancer cells and clinical specimens, especially in the basal-like subtype. RBM5 overexpression attenuated breast cancer cell malignancy, while RBM5 knockdown exerted opposite effects. Among genes with promoter G-quadruplex (G4) motifs, RBM5 was positively correlated with multiple tumor suppressors, including BAP1, but uncorrelated with the oncogene MYC. RBM5 bound to G4 motifs in both MYC and BAP1 promoters, but differentially modulated G4 structure stability: it destabilized MYC-G4 while stabilizing BAP1-G4. Mechanistically, either the RRM1 or the RRM2 domain was sufficient for MYC-G4 binding, whereas both domains were required for BAP1-G4 interaction. RBM5 manipulation regulated endogenous BAP1 but not MYC expression. BAP1 overexpression reversed the protumorigenic effects of RBM5 knockdown in cellulo and tumor growth in a xenograft mouse model. Collectively, we reveal that RBM5 acts as a breast cancer tumor suppressor via directly binding the BAP1 promoter G4 to transcriptionally activate BAP1 expression.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42512891 is a review article
Sarcomatoid carcinoma of the upper urinary tract (SCUT) is a rare and aggressive malignancy. Due to its rarity, the molecular landscape and the prevalence of potentially targetable alterations are poorly characterized. We aimed to compare the clinical, pathological, and genomic profiles of SCUT and upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC).We leveraged the Tempus Lens clinically annotated genomic dataset to extract clinicopathologic and somatic genomic alteration data from patients with UTUC and SCUT. Patients with any-stage disease who underwent either blood- or tissue-based next-generation sequencing were included. Baseline clinical and demographic characteristics were summarized using descriptive statistics. Comparisons between groups were performed using Wilcoxon rank-sum test for continuous variables and the Chi-square test/Fisher's exact test for categorical variables. Mutational frequencies and pairwise comparisons were performed to assess significant differences between groups.In total, 1721 patients were included, of which 1600 (93%) had UTUC and 121 (7%) had SCUT. Patients with SCUT were younger at diagnosis, 61 years (interquartile range (IQR) 54, 70), compared to UTUC, 71 years (IQR 64, 77) (p < 0.001), and were more likely to have node-positive disease at presentation (all p < 0.001). SCUT patients were more likely to show visceral metastases to the lung (44% vs. 21%), bone (31% vs. 17%), and brain (7% vs. 1%), compared to UTUC (all p < 0.05). Among SCUT patients, the most common genomic alterations were TERT (30%), TP53 (29%), NF2 (19%), PTEN (13%), SETD2 (12%), PBRM1 (12%), and BAP1 (8%). Among UTUC patients, the most common were TERT (52%), TP53 (52%), KMT2D (30%), FGFR3 (25%), ARID1A (20%), and KDM6A (18%). Compared to UTUC, SCUT was significantly enriched with NF2, SETD2, PBRM1, PTEN, and BAP1 (all p < 0.05). SCUT was depleted in FGFR3 (0% vs. 25%) and FGF4 (0% vs. 8%) mutations compared to UTUC (both p < 0.05). Targetable alterations were observed in SCUT, including NF2, SETD2, and PTEN. Conclusion: Compared with UTUC, SCUT exhibits a more aggressive clinical and genomic phenotype, characterized by enrichment in NF2, SETD2, PBRM1, and PTEN. These findings underscore the divergent molecular landscape of SCUT and highlight potentially targetable genomic alterations.
Supernumerary teeth are common congenital dental anomalies resulting from disrupted epithelial-mesenchymal interactions during tooth development. Although Hedgehog signaling is known to regulate tooth development, its temporal requirement for tooth number determination remains elusive. To investigate the role of early epithelial Hedgehog signaling, we conditionally deleted Smo in the dental epithelium using Pitx2-Cre, which initiates recombination at E10.5, prior to the onset of K14-Cre activity. SmoPitx2Cre mutant mice developed two supernumerary mandibular incisors together with defective ameloblast differentiation and disrupted enamel formation. BrdU labeling revealed significantly increased cell proliferation in the lingual cervical loop, with no changes in apoptosis. In situ hybridization showed reduced expression of Wnt inhibitors Dkk1 and Sostdc1, accompanied by upregulation of the Wnt target gene Lef1, indicating aberrant activation of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway in SmoPitx2Cre incisors. Treatment with SHH in vitro upregulated Dkk1 and Sostdc1 expression, confirming that Hedgehog signaling positively regulates these Wnt inhibitors. Moreover, the SmoPitx2Cre mutant mice exhibited decreased expression of Fgf3, Sp6, Dlx2, and Msx2, genes implicated in ameloblast differentiation and dental patterning. Together, these findings demonstrate that epithelial Hedgehog signaling is required during early odontogenesis to establish normal tooth patterning through coordinated regulation of Wnt signaling and epithelial-mesenchymal communication, while simultaneously promoting ameloblast differentiation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) is a neuroendocrine malignancy arising from parafollicular C-cells with known variations in cytomorphologic and immunophenotypic features. New neuroendocrine markers pituitary homeobox 2 (PITX2), paired-like homeobox 2B (PH-OX2B), and heart and neural crest derivatives expressed 2 (HAND2) have recently been introduced, but studies using these markers in MTC are limited. The aim of this study was to evaluate the expression and potential diagnostic utility of PITX2, PHOX2B, and HAND2 in primary and secondary MTCs and to compare their expression with chromogranin A, synaptophysin, insulinoma-associated protein 1 (INSM1), and calcitonin.A total of 34 histologically confirmed cases of MTC with available cell blocks were included. Sixteen MTC samples were fine-needle aspirates from primary thyroid lesions, and eighteen were from secondary metastatic lesions. Twelve samples from thyroid carcinomas of follicular origin were included as controls.PITX2 positivity was observed in 17 (50.0%) MTC samples and in 4 (33.3%) control samples (P = 0.502). PITX2 positivity was found in 43.8% of primary thyroid MTC lesions and in 55.6% of secondary MTC lesions (P = 0.366). Co-expression of PITX2 with chromogranin A, synaptophysin, INSM1, and calcitonin was observed. PHOX2B and HAND2 were negative in all MTC and control samples.There were no significant differences in PITX2 expression between primary and secondary MTC samples. PITX2 did not show reliable utility in distinguishing MTC from thyroid carcinomas of follicular origin. PHOX2B and HAND2 were negative in all samples. These results suggest that these new markers do not offer diagnostic value for MTC as stand-alone markers or as additions to the diagnostic workup panel.Helenius M, Kalfert D, Maleki Z, Barkan GA, Rossi ED, Cai G, et al. New Neuroendocrine Markers PITX2, PHOX2B, and HAND2 Do Not Offer Diagnostic Utility in Fine-needle Aspiration Biopsies of Primary and Secondary Medullary Thyroid Carcinomas: A Retrospective Multi-institutional Study. J Clin Transl Pathol 2026. doi: 10.14218/JCTP.2026.00011.
Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome (ARS) is a rare genetic disorder characterized by anterior segment dysgenesis and secondary glaucoma, often accompanied by systemic defects. This study investigated the clinical and genetic features in four Chinese families with ARS.To characterize the clinical phenotypes and identify the causative genetic mutations in four unrelated Chinese families with ARS.Affected individuals from four Han Chinese families underwent comprehensive clinical and ophthalmological examinations. Genetic analysis was performed using whole-exome sequencing (WES) and validated by copy number variation sequencing (CNV-seq) and qPCR.All affected individuals exhibited anterior segment dysgenesis. Secondary glaucoma was present in seven of them. Systemic manifestations, including dental and umbilical abnormalities, were observed in all affected individuals. Genetic analysis identified novel heterozygous PITX2 mutations in all four families: three distinct microdeletions (ranging from 206 bp to 449.97 kb) and one nonsense mutation (p.Phe140*) , with all predicted to cause haploinsufficiency.Four novel PITX2 mutations, including microdeletions, were identified in Chinese ARS families. The 206-bp genomic DNA deletion appeared to be an essential region (chr4: 111543411-111543616) for PITX2 function in ocular and systemic development, underscoring the necessity of full gene dosage.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome (ARS) is a multisystem disorder primarily caused by PITX2 mutations. While eye and dental anomalies are classic, the role of PITX2 as a dosage-sensitive regulator of the human growth axis remains clinically under-recognized. We aim to elucidate the link between large-scale 4q25 microdeletions and severe growth hormone deficiency (GHD).A 5.4-year-old boy with ocular segment dysgenesis and short stature underwent family-based whole-exome sequencing (WES). Standardized growth hormone (GH) stimulation tests and longitudinal growth dynamics analysis based on 44 precise clinical data points collected from birth to age 7.45 years were performed. A systematic literature review of 10 ARS cases with growth failure was conducted to propose a pathogenic model.WES identified a novel de novo 3.824Mb heterozygous deletion at 4q25 (arr[GRCh38] 4q25(108,929,697-112,753,289)×1), encompassing critical genes including CFI, EGF, PITX2, PANCR, and LARP7. Our systematic review revealed a dosage-sensitive correlation between the microdeletion scale at the 4q25 region and the severity of growth axis impairment. The patient exhibited complete GHD (peak GH: 4.22 ng/mL) and a 1.5-year bone age delay. Following 20 months of PEG-rhGH therapy, the patient achieved a significant catch-up growth with a cumulative height gain of 16.5 cm, with his height standard deviation score (Ht-SDS) improving from -2.0 SD to within the normal range. Our mechanistic model suggests that PITX2 haploinsufficiency disrupts the POU1F1 (Pit-1) transcriptional cascade, leading to pituitary hypoplasia.This study reports the one of the most extensive longitudinal follow-up of successful PEG-rhGH therapy in ARS to date. We propose that large 4q25 deletions represent a high-risk genotype for GHD. Mandatory growth monitoring and early endocrine screening are recommended for ARS patients with chromosomal deletions in this region to optimize developmental outcomes.Copyright © 2026 Guan, Wang, Liu, Qi, Sun, Jiang and Lin.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42371450 is a review article
The salmon trout or rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) is a teleost fish are characterized by the presence of lingual teeth. The objective of this study is to investigate their development, particularly in relation to the expression of genes associated with mammalian odontogenesis. Sixty fry were reared in a freshwater aquarium at 7°C. Specimens at developmental stages ranging from D0 (hatching) to D35 were collected and subjected to histological (Masson's trichrome) and immunohistochemical analysis, including the expression of proteins associated with the Pitx2, Shh, MSX1, Pax9, Bmp4 and β-catenin genes. The developmental patterns of the lingual teeth are similar to those of the maxillary and mandibular teeth. These are not giant papillae or pseudoteeth. The initiator gene Pitx2 is expressed in the epithelium during early stages but subsequently diminishes. Bmp4, Shh and β-Cat exhibit a pattern similar to that of mammals, except for the absence of the enamel node. Surprisingly, however, we observe expression of Msx1 and Pax9 in the dental mesenchyme as well as in the epithelium, a phenomenon unknown in mammals. The second week marks an increase in the expression of these two proteins and of Shh, while Bmp4 does not appear in large quantities until 10 days. Incidentally, the mucous glands (cement glands) express Shh, Pitx2, Msx1, Pax9 and β-catenin. In conclusion, tongue teeth are 'classical' teeth; their gene expression patterns are similar to those in mammals, except that Msx1 and Pax9 are expressed in both epithelial and mesenchymal tissues in this species.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Chromatin-based repression is essential for retinal development, yet the genome-wide binding landscape of Polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) in the developing retina has not been defined. In particular, how the PRC2 catalytic subunit EZH2 associates with chromatin and relates to transcriptional control in retinal progenitor cells (RPCs) remains incompletely characterized.Genome-wide EZH2 binding and H3K27me3 deposition were profiled in the developing mouse retina and integrated with transcriptomic analyses following conditional Ezh2 deletion in RPCs. Chromatin state annotations and enhancer-promoter interaction data were used to examine regulatory features associated with EZH2-bound loci.EZH2 binding was enriched at promoter regions and strongly associated with H3K27me3-marked chromatin. Integration with transcriptomic data revealed that genes upregulated following Ezh2 loss were frequently EZH2-bound and enriched for loci exhibiting overlapping H3K27me3 and H3K4me3 signals at the population level. Among upregulated genes, those bound by EZH2 showed greater fold-change magnitude than unbound genes, whereas H3K27me3 occupancy alone did not differentiate fold-change within the upregulated set. Analysis of transcription factor-occupied loci indicated partial overlap between retinal progenitor transcriptional networks and Polycomb-marked regions. At the Pitx2 locus, EZH2 and H3K27me3 occupancy coincided with a distal enhancer that is accessible and transcriptionally competent in the developing retina.These findings provide a genome-wide characterization of EZH2 occupancy in the developing mouse retina and support a model in which EZH2-mediated repression is associated with reduced transcription from chromatin that otherwise displays features of transcriptional competence. This work offers a framework for understanding how Polycomb-associated chromatin states intersect with retinal transcriptional programs to maintain lineage-appropriate gene expression.
The modification of the male right tentacle (MRT) into a copulatory organ in Cipangopaludina chinensis represents a prominent sexual dimorphism, yet the molecular mechanisms underlying its development remain poorly understood. This study observed the distinctive histological morphology of MRT, and then explored its potential genetic regulatory networks through transcriptomic analysis. Comparative transcriptome analysis across tentacles of different sexes and sides identified numerous differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Notably, the homeobox gene Pitx2, a central regulator of left-right asymmetric development in animals, was significantly upregulated in the MRT. Transcription factors involved in sexual development (e.g., Dmrta2, Sox10), genes related to hormone synthesis (Daf9, Cyp2j4), and the pro-apoptotic gene Bax were also specifically upregulated, while the apoptosis inhibitor gene Iap1 was downregulated. Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) further identified key modules highly correlated with the MRT phenotype, which were enriched for biological processes such as hormone response, cell morphogenesis, and apoptosis-related pathways. Our results suggest that the sexually dimorphic development of the tentacle in C. chinensis likely involves the coordinated action of a Pitx2-mediated left-right asymmetry pathway, sex-determination signals, and a local hormone-induced apoptotic remodeling program, revealing a complex regulatory mechanism underlying its morphological specialization.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Crohn's disease (CD) is highly heterogeneous in presentation and progression with no cure. Molecular phenotyping has been used to elucidate cellular and tissue-based alterations to characterize drivers and effects of disease. One currently understudied class of functional molecules is long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs). Studying the full lncRNA landscape in CD is challenging due in part to an incomplete lncRNA annotation and a lack of their functional characterization in tissues of interest. We used a genome-guided alignment strategy to assemble predicted lncRNA transcripts using short RNA-sequencing data from colon tissue of adult patient samples. When combining our predicted lncRNAs with previous lncRNA annotations, we determined 98 that were differentially expressed, recapitulating many from previous IBD studies while also uncovering new ones. We built gene co-expression networks to cluster lncRNAs with functionally characterized protein-coding genes. Clusters containing differential lncRNAs were correlated to disease status and associated with pathways related to the humoral immune response, metabolism, and tissue regeneration. We uncovered multiple differential lncRNAs whose expression significantly correlated with nearby differential protein-coding genes that have also been differentially expressed in other IBD datasets, such as PITX2. We focused on a predicted lncRNA that is antisense to the PITX2-adjacent lncRNA PANCR, which we called PANCR-AS1, and provide multiple lines of evidence that support PANCR-AS1 functioning as an enhancer of PITX2 expression. Overall, we determined lncRNAs that are potential contributors to CD pathogenesis. We developed a robust pipeline for identifying lncRNAs in diseased and non-diseased tissue that are absent from reference annotations. We also outlined a framework to pinpoint significant disease-associated lncRNAs with potential functional activity related to their nearby protein-coding genes.© 2026. The Author(s).
Post-stroke depression (PSD) affects approximately 30% of stroke survivors and worsens functional outcomes, yet its biological basis remains poorly understood.We integrated cross-disorder genomics, developmental spatial transcriptomics, and causal neuroimaging in 16 PSD patients and 14 matched controls. Polygenic overlap was quantified using MiXeR and conditional FDR (condFDR). Shared risk variants were mapped using genetically informed spatial mapping of cells for complex traits (gsMap) onto the embryonic mouse brain (E16.5). Resting-state fMRI with group independent component analysis (ICA), functional network connectivity (FNC), and spectral dynamic causal modeling (spDCM) characterised circuit-level alterations.Stroke and depression showed robust polygenic overlap (Dice = 0.09). condFDR prioritized five pleiotropic loci implicating HDAC9-mediated neurovascular inflammation and PITX2-driven cardio-cerebral signaling. gsMap revealed enrichment of shared genetic risk in developing cortical regions at E16.5. PSD exhibited selective default mode network (DMN)-sensorimotor network (SMN) decoupling and reduced directed DMN→SMN influence (BPA = -0.12 Hz; Pp > 0.99). Auditory network (AN) outflow to DMN, SMN, and ventral attention network (VAN) was broadly attenuated, and AN→DMN effective connectivity scaled with depressive severity (BPA = -0.19 Hz; Pp > 0.99).PSD reflects a unified developmental-acquired pathophysiology where latent developmental genetic vulnerability, revealed at E16.5, is unmasked by stroke-triggered circuit decompensation. HDAC9/PITX2 pathways and AN-DMN circuitry are mechanistically grounded targets for potential biomarker development and circuit-informed interventions.© 2026 The Author(s). Brain and Behavior published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Stem-cell-based human embryo models offer an ethically tractable platform for studying early human development. This study employs somitoids, three-dimensional models of human somitogenesis, to investigate how transcriptional programs and culture conditions influence somite formation and segmentation. We show that pre-differentiation culture medium impacts the developmental potential of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), with StemFit medium and Matrigel embedding outperforming mTeSR Plus medium in generating robust somite-like structures. Strikingly, these differences arise despite only subtle changes in transcriptomic and time-resolved proteomic profiles. P300-based proximity labeling also reveals a largely overlapping set of chromatin-associated regulators across iPSC conditions. In somitoids, enhancer-associated profiling highlights factors linked to somitogenesis, including MESP2 and TBX6. Knockout of three identified regulators, BPTF, RBPJ, and CITED2, demonstrate their essential roles in somite formation. Together, these findings highlight how culture conditions and enhancer-associated networks influence early human development and demonstrate somitoids as a scalable system for functional genomics.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Endometrial cancer (EC) is a common female reproductive system malignancy, with metastasis being a major cause of poor prognosis. Intestinal flora imbalance is linked to gynecological tumor progression, and probiotics exhibit anti-tumor potential, but their regulatory mechanisms in EC migration/invasion/metastasis remain unclear.Bioinformatics analysis: TCGA database screened 1063 metastasis-related differentially expressed genes (DEGs), and 3915 DEGs after probiotic intervention, with 301 overlapping DEGs enriched in "ECM assembly", "autophagy regulation", and "epithelial migration" (GO analysis). GEPIA2 validated FOXA2, FN1, and CITED2 as survival-related genes in EC patients; STRING database identified p62 as a key FN1-interacting protein (interaction score=0.913). Cell experiments: Low-autophagy, high-FN1, highly invasive Ishikawa/KLE cells were selected. CCK-8 assay showed probiotic supernatant inhibited cell viability in a time/dose-dependent manner, with 1/32 and 1/64 dilutions chosen (based on IC50 values).qPCR/Western Blot confirmed probiotics downregulated FN1, upregulated p62 and LC3-II/LC3-I ratio (P < 0.01); Co-IP verified p62-FN1 interaction. p62 knockdown attenuated probiotic-induced FN1 degradation (P < 0.01), while p62 overexpression enhanced probiotics' inhibitory effect on EC cell migration/invasion (P < 0.001). Animal experiments: Nude mouse EC metastasis models showed significantly lower tumor fluorescence intensity in the probiotic intervention group (Vehicle+BS) than controls (P < 0.01). Western Blot revealed higher p62/LC3-II/LC3-I and lower FN1/N-cadherin in Vehicle + BS group (P < 0.01). Routine blood and liver/kidney function tests confirmed probiotic safety (P > 0.05).In conclusion, probiotics inhibit EC cell migration, invasion, and in vivo metastasis by activating autophagic flux and promoting p62-mediated autophagic degradation of FN1, with good safety, providing potential experimental evidence and target reference for clinical microecological adjuvant EC treatment.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
Neural crest (NC) cells are a highly migratory and multipotent population essential for vertebrate development, whose behavior depends on the integration of signaling pathways, transcriptional programs, and cytoskeletal dynamics. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized functional relationship between the signaling regulator Ric-8A and the transcriptional co-regulator Cited2 during NC development in Xenopus. Proteomic analyses and proximity ligation assays revealed Cited2 as a Ric-8A-associated factor, prompting us to investigate its role in NC biology. We show that xtcited2 is dynamically expressed during embryogenesis, with enrichment in neural and mesodermal derivatives, including cranial NC. At the cellular level, XtCited2 exhibits a dual nuclear-cytoplasmic distribution that is regulated by XtRic-8A. Gain- and loss-of-function experiments, together with rescue assays, demonstrate that XtRic-8A controls the subcellular localization of XtCited2 and influences XtCited2-dependent transcriptional programs. Single-cell transcriptomic analyses further revealed that co-expression of xtcited2 and xtric-8a defines a distinct transcriptional state enriched for genes associated with cytoskeletal organization, Rho GTPase signaling, cell migration, and cell-cycle regulation. Consistently, functional assays showed that XtRic-8A is required to maintain normal sox2 expression, linking this regulatory axis to transcriptional control of NC identity. Together, our findings uncover a regulatory mechanism by which XtRic-8A modulates XtCited2 function, connecting protein localization, transcriptional regulation, and NC cell behavior during vertebrate development.Copyright © 2026 Castelli, Beyer, Ruiz, Guajardo, Tovar, Leal, Marín-Videla, Torres, Araya, Bustamante, Maureira, Gutiérrez, Tarifeño-Saldivia and Torrejón.
Diabetic wounds resent a considerable clinical challenge due to impaired healing, which results from persistent inflammation and dysregulated macrophage polarization. This study identifies CITED2 as a critical regulator of diabetic wound repair, primarily through its role in modulating macrophage plasticity. We demonstrate that CITED2 exhibits phase-specific expression during normal wound healing, and its downregulation in diabetic wounds disrupts the transition from M1 to M2 macrophages. Local administration of recombinant CITED2 protein accelerates wound closure by promoting the shift of macrophages toward the anti-inflammatory M2 phenotype, thereby enhancing re-epithelialization, collagen deposition, and angiogenesis. Transcriptomic analysis reveals that CITED2 potentially mediates the activation of PPAR-γ signaling and the upregulation of anti-inflammatory genes. Further immunofluorescence analysis of wound tissues shows an upregulation of anti-inflammatory genes (IL10, Gpnmb, and Nr1d1) and a downregulation of pro-inflammatory genes (IL-6, IL-1β, and TNF-α). Additionally, in vitro experiments indicate that conditioned medium from CITED2-treated macrophages significantly enhances the proliferation and migration capabilities of endothelial cells and fibroblasts. Notably, short-term CITED2 treatment (3 days) achieves comparable efficacy to a 14-day rhFGF therapy. To facilitate clinical translation, we developed a fibrin-thrombin-PEG hydrogel spray (Fib-Thr-PEG-CITED2) that exhibits favorable anti-inflammatory and hemostatic properties, along with demonstrated biosafety. In diabetic mouse wounds, the Fib-Thr-PEG-CITED2 hydrogel spray shows superior wound healing effects compared to CITED2 alone or Fib-Thr-PEG controls. These findings establish CITED2 as a novel therapeutic target and the Fib-Thr-PEG-CITED2 hydrogel as a potential strategy for diabetic wound management.© 2026. The Author(s).
Ferroptosis, a form of regulated cell death driven by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation, plays a pivotal role in chondrocyte death and the pathogenesis of osteoarthritis (OA). Taurine, a sulfur-containing amino acid with established anti-inflammatory and anti-ferroptotic properties, has been implicated in joint protection; however, its potential to mitigate OA progression by targeting ferroptosis mechanisms remains largely unexplored.RNA sequencing was performed on normal and OA knee joint cartilage tissues to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was used to screen for OA-related modules, and ferroptosis-related targets were retrieved from public databases. Intersecting genes from the DEGs, WGCNA modules, and ferroptosis targets underwent pathway enrichment analysis. Taurine target genes were predicted via multiple databases, and machine learning algorithms were applied to identify hub genes. A nomogram model was constructed to evaluate diagnostic accuracy. Immune infiltration was assessed using the CIBERSORT algorithm. Furthermore, in vitro experiments involving interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β)-stimulated chondrocytes and in vivo studies using a destabilization of the medial meniscus (DMM) mouse model were conducted to validate the effects of taurine.Machine learning analysis identified four key hub genes: CSRNP1, CTH, OSBPL3, and CITED2. CTH was selected as the primary focus due to the effect of taurine on its expression in IL-1β-stimulated chondrocytes. In vitro assays demonstrated that taurine treatment specifically reversed the IL-1β-induced downregulation of CTH. Mechanistic studies showed that taurine directly bound to the CTH protein and attenuated IL-1β-induced ferroptosis by restoring CTH expression, thereby increasing glutathione (GSH) levels, reducing iron accumulation and lipid peroxidation, and upregulating solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11) and glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4). Consistently, taurine alleviated cartilage degradation and synovial inflammation in DMM-induced OA mice, whereas these benefits were reversed by the CTH inhibitor propargylglycine (PAG).Taurine exerted significant chondroprotective effects, at least in part, by directly targeting CTH to suppress chondrocyte ferroptosis, thereby ameliorating OA progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
Recent advances in predicting and modeling conformational ensembles of intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs) have provided much needed insights into sequence-ensemble relationships. It is thought that conservation of physicochemical properties, but not the exact identity or order of the amino acids, maintains IDP ensemble properties that are crucial for function. However, detailed experimental studies are still required to fully understand the relationships between sequence and function in IDPs. The human CITED proteins, which are fully disordered transcriptional regulators, share conserved C-terminal transactivation domains (CTADs) that interact with the TAZ1 domain of the transcriptional coactivators CBP/p300. The conserved CTADs harbor amino acid substitutions in regions that are known to be important for interactions of CITED2 with TAZ1, but the effects of these substitutions on TAZ1 binding for the other CITED proteins are unknown. Here, we use solution NMR spectroscopy, circular dichroism, and surface plasmon resonance to characterize the conformational ensembles, dynamics, and interactions of the CITED CTADs. The CTADs are disordered in isolation, although the CITED2 CTAD uniquely displays residual helical structure that is sensitive to ionic strength and protein concentration. In contrast, the CITED1 and CITED4 CTADs remain largely disordered and exhibit more uniform dynamics. Quantitative binding measurements reveal differences in thermodynamics and kinetics for the CTADs' interactions with TAZ1, with CITED2 binding most tightly and CITED4 exhibiting significantly weaker affinity. Our results highlight the sensitivity of IDP conformational ensembles to minor sequence changes and the impacts that changes in IDP structures and dynamics can have on biological functions.© 2026 The Author(s). Protein Science published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Protein Society.
E2F4 is a transcription factor involved in cellular homeostasis and a substrate of the stress-activated kinase p38MAPK, which phosphorylates a conserved Thr248/Thr250 motif. A non-phosphorylatable mutant, E2F4DN (Thr248Ala/Thr250Ala), has demonstrated preclinical efficacy in a murine model of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but its mechanism of action remains unknown. We hypothesized that cell stress-induced phosphorylation disrupts E2F4's homeostatic function, whereas exogenous E2F4DN restores it. To begin testing this hypothesis, we treated differentiated N2a neuroblastoma cells (N2a neuron-like cells) with camptothecin (CPT) to induce genotoxic stress. CPT activated p38MAPK within 8 h, leading to phosphorylation of E2F4 at Thr248/Thr250. We then overexpressed E2F4DN or a phosphomimetic variant, E2F4CA (Thr248Glu/Thr250Glu), and assessed apoptosis via procaspase-3 cleavage. The pro-apoptotic factor E2F1 strongly induced caspase-3 activation in this model system. This effect was partially mimicked by E2F4CA, while E2F4DN markedly suppressed it. Notably, E2F4DN, but not E2F4CA, upregulated the antiapoptotic factor Cited2, and knockdown experiments suggest it may contribute to E2F4DN's protective effect. Overall, these findings indicate that E2F4DN counteracts p38MAPK-driven neuronal apoptosis and helps preserve neuronal homeostasis, at least in part, through Cited2 upregulation. This provides mechanistic insight into the neuroprotective role of E2F4DN as a potential therapy for AD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Previous studies demonstrate that the protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 2 (AMPKα2), one of two isoforms of catalytic subunit of AMPK encoded by PRKAA2, is highly expressed and contributes to cell survival and chemo-resistance in TNBC. However, the mechanisms underlying AMPKα2 upregulation is poorly understood. Here, we found that AMPKα2 expression was decreased in primary TNBC but paradoxically increased in doxorubicin (DOX) resistant TNBC cancer stem cells (TBCSCs). DOX treatment led to an enrichment of TBCSCs and a concomitant increase in AMPKα2 expression. Mechanistically, enhanced AMPKα2 expression in TBCSCs was driven by H3K27 acetylation at PRKAA2 promoter. This epigenetic modification was facilitated by the histone acetyltransferases CBP/p300. Moreover, CITED2 was essential for CBP/p300-mediated H3K27 acetylation. Loss of CITED2 disrupted CBP/p300 localization and reduced H3K27 acetylation at PRKAA2 promoter. CITED2 directly bound to p300 via its C-terminal LPEL domain, promoting the formation and localization of the CBP/p300/CITED2 complex at PRKAA2 promoter. Disruption of CITED2/p300/CBP complex using an exogenous LPEL peptide inhibited H3K27 acetylation at the PRKAA2 promoter, decreasing AMPKα2 expression. Up-regulation of AMPKα2 promoted stemness properties and conferred DOX resistance in both cell line-derived and patient-derived TBCSCs. Further, we found LPEL peptide significantly suppressing TBCSCs stemness properties. Importantly, this approach sensitized DOX-resistant TBCSCs to DOX treatment. Our findings revealed a critical role of CITED2-dependent p300/CBP mediated H3K27 acetylation in promoting AMPKα2 expression within TBCSCs and contributing to DOX resistance. Targeting the CITED2/p300/CBP complex with an exogenous LPEL peptide represents a promising strategy to overcome DOX resistance in TNBC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
[Image: see text]
Tumor-associated Tie2-expressing monocytes/macrophages (TEMs) have been implicated in promoting angiogenesis and metastasis in colorectal cancer (CRC), yet the molecular mechanisms linking TEMs infiltration to tumor metastasis and progression remain incompletely defined. This study investigated the distribution of TEMs in CRC and their association with gene expression profiles, microvessel density (MVD), and clinical outcomes. Immunohistochemistry on 30 formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) primary CRC samples revealed that TEMs, which characteristically express tyrosine kinase with immunoglobulin and epidermal growth factor homology domains 2 (Tie2) receptor and CD14, preferentially localize to perivascular regions and are associated with higher histological grade, tumor size, lymph node metastasis, and increased MVD. However, Tie2-/CD14+ macrophages and CD68+ tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) showed uniform stromal distribution. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) of in silico transcriptomic datasets of metastatic CRC (mCRC) identified enrichment of pathways related to cell-cell recognition, calcium signaling, transcription regulation, and metalloexopeptidase activity in Tie2+/CD14+ tumors. Subsequent qRT-PCR validation on FFPE primary CRC samples confirmed significant upregulation of C-C chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7), platelet-derived growth factor A (PDGFRA), CBP/p300-interacting transactivator with glutamic acid/aspartic acid-rich carboxyl-terminal domain 2 (CITED2), and carboxypeptidase E (CPE) in TEMs+ regions. Notably, angiopoietin1 (Ang1), but not angiopoietin2 (Ang2), was significantly elevated in TEMs+ primary tumors. Kaplan-Meier analysis on 1336 CRC patients indicated that high expression of CITED2, CPE, and Ang2 is associated with reduced overall survival. Collectively, these findings suggest that TEM infiltration is linked to transcriptional regulation, biological processes, and enzymatic programs in CRC, potentially contributing to tumor progression and poor prognosis, and highlight CCR7, PDGFRA, CITED2, CPE, and Ang1 as candidate biomarkers for further mechanistic exploration.
Idiopathic inflammatory myopathy (IIM) is a systemic autoimmune disease targeting muscle and extramuscular organs, but the molecular mechanisms driving IIM pathogenesis remain largely undefined. Muscle fibroblasts are central to orchestrating inflammation in myositis. Here, we investigated muscle fibroblast dynamics using a single-cell RNA sequencing approach in an established murine model of anti-histidyl-tRNA synthetase (HRS, also known as Jo-1)-induced myositis. In fibroblasts, there was a robust activation of an IL-17 gene signature during disease. Among the induced genes was Nfkbiz, which encodes IκBζ, a noncanonical NF-κB transcriptional coactivator known to be key for pathologic IL-17 signaling in a variety of autoimmune settings. In muscle fibroblasts, IκBζ was potently activated by IL-17 in vitro and was essential for IL-17 signaling responsiveness. Surprisingly, however, the IL-17-IκBζ signaling axis was dispensable for the histopathological phenotype in HRS-induced myositis. Thus, despite a prominent IL-17 transcriptional signature, IL-17 and IκBζ are not required for autoantibody production or tissue inflammation in this model system.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
Dry eye disease (DED) is a prevalent disorder affecting millions worldwide, fueled by both the aging population and extensive use of electronic devices. Yet, current treatments for moderate-to-severe DED fail to fully meet the clinical needs due to the lack of effective therapeutics and delivery systems for topical application. Based on the concept of "Barrier to Target," an siRNA-embedded nucleic acid hydrogel modified with a mucin-1 (MUC1) aptamer is developed to actively target the ocular surface for DED treatment. Upon distillation, the adhesive feature and aptamer-mucin recognition of the hydrogel enhance its retention on the ocular surface. Over time, tear dilution and the shear force of blinking lead the hydrogel to degrade into nanosized gel particles, facilitating drug uptake by corneal cells. Subsequently, the embedded siRNA targeting the nuclear factor of kappa-B inhibitor, zeta (NFKBIZ) gene can effectively silence the target gene expression, initiating a cascade of inflammation-related gene suppression. This comprehensive gene regulation effectively reshapes the inflammatory corneal environment to a normal state and alleviates the severity of DED in a mouse model. With the sequence-dependent nature of siRNA drugs, our targeting hydrogel may serve as a general platform for treating various ocular surface diseases.© 2026 The Author(s). Exploration published by Henan University and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Inflammatory diseases arise from complex interactions between immune signaling and cellular stress. Although endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress is a key modulator of immunity, the mechanisms by which it promotes inflammatory pathology remain incompletely understood. Notably, ER stress-induced NF-κB activation alone is insufficient to account for robust IL-6 production, thus suggesting the involvement of additional regulators. Using bone marrow-derived macrophages and sepsis model mice, we identified the inducible transcription factor IκBζ as a critical mediator of this response, with ER stress synergizing with TLR signaling to markedly upregulate IκBζ. Mechanistically, ER stress triggered calcium-dependent signaling that led to IκB kinase-mediated degradation of the RNase Regnase-1, likely stabilizing Nfkbiz mRNA and promoting the accumulation of IκBζ, which was found to cooperate with the ER stress factor XBP1s to drive transcription of selected secondary-response genes, particularly Il6 and Nos2. Importantly, this synergy was required for excessive IL-6 production in septic mice, highlighting a gene-specific amplification pathway. Together, these findings identify a dual mechanism in which transcriptional synergy between IκBζ and XBP1s is coupled to posttranscriptional mRNA stabilization via Regnase-1 degradation, thereby linking proteotoxic stress to hyperinflammatory responses. Our results establish ER stress-mediated IκBζ accumulation as a key driver of inflammatory pathogenesis and a potential therapeutic target in ER stress-associated inflammatory disorders.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Objective To investigate the early transcriptomic characteristics of neutrophils and monocytes stimulated by the major surface protein 2 (MSP2) of anaplasma phagocytophilum(AP), to preliminarily explore their functional differences and potential common pro-inflammatory mechanisms of these two cell types in the inflammatory response, and to provide a theoretical basis for understanding the inflammatory pathogenesis of Human Granulocytic Anaplasmosis (HGA) and for developing anti-inflammatory strategies. Methods HL60 cells (rHL60) differentiated with dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) for 8 days were used as a neutrophil-like cell model, and human acute monocytic leukemia (THP-1) cells were used as a monocyte model. Both cells were stimulated with recombinant MSP2 (rMSP2) for 2 hours. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified by transcriptome sequencing, and their biological functions and related signaling pathways were analyzed via Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment. The mRNA expression levels of key DEGs were validated by real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR), and the concentrations of cytokines in cell supernatants were measured by ELISA. Results Transcriptome analysis showed that in rHL60 cells, DEGs were mainly enriched in inflammation. qPCR confirmed the up-regulation of C-C motif chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7) and oxidized low-density lipoprotein receptor 1 (OLR1), while CD1D molecule and C-X-C motif chemokine receptors 1/2 (CXCR1/2) were down-regulated. In THP-1 cells, DEGs were primarily enriched in transcriptional regulation. qPCR validated the up-regulation of nuclear factor kappa B inhibitor zeta (NFKBIZ) and nuclear receptor subfamily 4 group A member 3 (NR4A3), whereas thioredoxin-interacting protein (TXNIP) and interleukin-16 (IL-16) were down-regulated. ELISA results demonstrated that both cell types significantly secreted C-C motif chemokine ligands 3/4/20 (CCL3/4/20) following MSP2 stimulation. Conclusion In the early phase of MSP2 stimulation, neutrophils serve as the primary cells initiating the inflammatory response, whereas monocytes focus on immune regulation. The co-secretion of CCL3, CCL4, and CCL20 may represent a potential molecular mechanism by which these two innate immune cell types jointly promote inflammatory responses during AP infection.
Gastric cancer (GC) is a major global health challenge. This study explores the efficacy of linalool in GC and further elucidates its underlying mechanisms. Linalool inhibited the proliferation, migration, and invasion of GC cells and prevented transplanted tumor growth in nude mice. Linalool directly interacted with and stabilized the NR3C2 protein, inhibiting its proteasomal degradation. Functional rescue experiments demonstrated that knockdown of NR3C2 partially reversed the antitumor effects of linalool. Further studies revealed that NR3C2 transcriptionally activated NFKBIZ and inhibited NF-κB signaling, and restoring NFKBIZ expression reversed GC progression caused by NR3C2 deficiency. In clinical samples, the expression levels of NR3C2 and NFKBIZ were lower in GC tissues than in adjacent normal tissues, and the two markers were positively correlated in the tumor tissues. Furthermore, low expression of both NR3C2 and NFKBIZ was significantly associated with higher T stages and more advanced pTNM stages and was accompanied by NF-κB signaling activation and elevated levels of inflammatory cytokines in tumor tissues. Overall, linalool inhibits GC progression by upregulating NR3C2 and transcriptionally activating NFKBIZ, thereby suppressing NF-κB signaling. Low NR3C2/NFKBIZ expression is associated with adverse clinical and pathological features in GC.© 2026. The Author(s).
To investigate the therapeutic potential of 4-Octyl itaconate (4-OI), a derivative of the endogenous immunomodulator itaconate (ITA), as a safe and effective anti-inflammatory agent for the treatment of dry eye disease (DED).In vitro cytotoxicity and anti-inflammatory effects of 4-OI were evaluated in hyperosmotic human corneal epithelial cells (HCECs). An in vivo DED model was induced in C57BL/6 mice through environmental controlled chambers. Mice with DED were treated with phosphate buffered saline (PBS), 0.05% cyclosporine A (CsA) eye drops, 4-OI eye drops, or a single 4-OI intraperitoneal injection for 14 days. Corneal epithelial defects and tear secretion were assessed. The safety and underlying molecular mechanisms of topical 4-OI were evaluated using quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), Western blotting, mRNA sequencing, TdT-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) assay, and hematoxylin-eosin (H&E) staining. Statistical analyses were performed using independent sample t-tests and one-way ANOVA, with P<0.05 considered statistically significant.Treatment with 4-OI eye drops significantly reduced corneal epithelial defects in DED mice (P<0.0001) compared to the DED control group. Tear secretion was also elevated in the 4-OI eye drop-treated groups. mRNA sequencing revealed significant downregulation of inflammatory pathways, including interleukin (IL)-1 receptor activity, tumor necrosis factor (TNF) signaling, and IL-17 signaling, in the 2 mM 4-OI eye drop group. Molecular assays confirmed a marked reduction in the mRNA and protein expression of IL-1β, IL-17A, TNF-α, and NFKBIZ (IκBζ) in the corneas of 4-OI-treated mice. No significant corneal epithelial apoptosis or systemic toxicity was observed in the 4-OI-treated groups.The ITA derivative 4-OI demonstrates potential as a safe and effective therapeutic option for alleviating DED by suppressing ocular inflammation through the downregulation of IL-1, IL-17, and TNF signaling pathways.© 2026 The Authors.
Helicobacter pylori ( H. pylori ) infects the gastric epithelium of approximately half of the global population, and is a well-known risk factor for developing gastric cancer. Despite the clinical significance of H. pylori infection, many genetic factors that contribute to susceptibility remain unidentified. While it is well-established that H. pylori infection can result in gastritis and peptic ulcers, which may progress to gastric cancer, its causal link to other diseases remains unclear. We performed the genome-wide association study (GWAS) for anti- H. pylori IgG antibody titers, which were validated as a surrogate marker for H. pylori infection by the correlation with clinical traits, followed by gene-based and pathway analyses, involving up to 140,863 individuals. This included 56,967 in the discovery phase, and 68,211 in the replication phase from Japanese cohorts, and an additional 15,685 from European populations in a cross-ancestry meta-analysis. We reveal significant associations between H. pylori infection and polymorphisms in the Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) class II region within the Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC), as well as genes related to innate immunity, including CCDC80 , NFKBIZ , TIFA , PSCA , and TRAF3 . Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis revealed that genetic liability to H. pylori infection has both positive and negative causal relationships with a variety of diseases, including autoimmune-related diseases such as Type 1 diabetes, Hashimoto's disease, atopic dermatitis, as well as traits like body height and weight. These genetic findings strongly support the notion that genetic liability to H. pylori infection influences not only gastrointestinal diseases, but also a broader spectrum of health issues, thereby providing valuable insights for public health strategies and personalized medicine approaches.
BACKGROUND: Pathogens can shape their host communities over various timescales. The potential role of host–pathogen co-evolution in driving contemporary shifts in disease ecology is becoming increasingly important as host species emerge and persist outside their native ranges. In North America, Mycoplasma ovipneumoniae can cause fatal pneumonia epizootics in native bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis), whereas introduced free-ranging sympatric aoudad (Ammotragus lervia) typically act as asymptomatic reservoirs. We describe the responses of two hosts with different biogeographical histories to shared pathogen exposure through a lens of potential host–pathogen co-evolution. Specifically, this work integrates findings on microbiome composition and host transcriptomic responses in aoudad and bighorn sheep before and after controlled exposure to M. ovipneumoniae, with or without leukotoxigenic Pasteurellaceae. RESULTS: Aoudad maintained significantly higher microbial richness (Shannon) in the lower respiratory tract, whereas bighorn sheep experienced post-exposure microbiome perturbations and enhanced growth of some opportunistic taxa. Both molecular detection of and humoral antibodies to M. ovipneumoniae reduced the relative abundance of key genera (e.g., Bibersteinia, Mannheimia, Pasteurella, Roseomonas) in the upper respiratory tract, but post-exposure bacterial community alteration was more pronounced in bighorn sheep. Transcriptome profiling revealed that, compared to aoudad, bighorn sheep upregulated pro-inflammatory and oxidative-stress pathways—including interleukin-1, interleukin-12, and NF-κB signaling—alongside reactive oxygen species generation. In contrast, aoudad exhibited comparatively muted inflammatory signatures, enhanced expression of molecular chaperones, antigen-processing machinery, and integrin-mediated regulatory genes (notably CD46, ILK, and NFKBIZ). Network analysis identified distinct hub genes likely underpinning effective pathogen clearance and mucosal resilience in aoudad versus immunopathology in bighorn sheep. CONCLUSIONS: Our integrated microbiome and transcriptomic data underscore the importance of co-evolutionary history in driving host-specific responses to shared respiratory pathogens. Aoudad display microbiome stability and balanced immunoregulation, whereas bighorn sheep suffer dysbiosis and excessive inflammation, potentially increasing mortality risk. Explicit consideration of evolutionary and ecological context regarding host–pathogen co-evolution may increase overall understanding of observed pathobiological and epidemiological patterns commonly targeted for disease management interventions.
Qi-Huang Decoction (QHD), a combined prescription of Buzhong Yiqi decoction and Dachengqi decoction, is used for gastrointestinal protection post-operation at present. Previously, we found that QHD could ameliorate Candida colitis through Dectin-1 associated pathway, but was rather weak against Candida albicans in vitro.This study explores the protection mechanism of QHD by which miR-32-5p mediated Dectin-1/NF-κB/IκBζ signaling pathway in candidaemia associated renal injury caused by C. albicans.Signaling pathways were screened by network pharmacology. A murine systemic candidiasis model was established to investigate the therapeutic effect of QHD at 10, 20 and 40 g/kg on candidaemia. The antifungal and anti-inflammatory activity of QHD drug-containing serum (QHD-DS) at 5 and 20 g/kg was monitored in RAW264.7 and MPC5 cells. Dectin-1 inhibitor laminarin (LAM), miR-32-5p mimic and inhibitor, NF-κB antagonist TPCA, and silenced NFKBIZ were employed to analyze the activation of Dectin-1/NF-κB/IκBζ signaling pathway in the protection of QHD against colonization of and inflammation caused by C. albicans. In addition, the antifungal potential of NFKBIZ in combination with miR-32-5p, Dectin-1 and NF-κB was also examined.The NF-κB pathway is most likely to participate in the treatment of QHD against candidaemia. QHD at 40 g/kg significantly prolonged survival rate, ameliorated severity of kidney injury, reduced tissue fungal burden, and neutralized renal inflammation in mice with candidaemia. Similarly, QHD-DS at 5 and 20 g/kg was effective to inhibit C. albicans growth and increased inflammation induced by fungal β-glucan in RAW264.7 and MPC5 cells. QHD deactivated Dectin-1/NF-κB signaling, but LAM abolished this protection. In contrast to downregulated miR-32-5p, overexpressed miR-32-5p assisted QHD-DS at 5 and 20 g/kg to improve candidaemia. NFKBIZ, miR-32-5p target gene, was positively correlated with Dectin-1 and NF-κB. Silenced NFKBIZ abandoned the antifungal and anti-inflammatory potentials of QHD by downregulating TNF-α and IL-1β. Furthermore, si-NFKBIZ could be synergistic with miR-32-5p inhibitor, LAM and TPCA to weaken the QHD-DS's anti-colonization of C. albicans. NFKBIZ, not NF-κB, might be the principle governor in renal inflammation and fungal propagation during candidaemia.QHD can ameliorate candidaemia associated renal inflammation via miR-32-5p mediated Dectin-1/NF-κB/IκBζ signaling pathway. QHD presents promising potential for clinical therapy of candidaemia.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) is a re-emerging arbovirus causing acute febrile illness and chronic debilitating arthritis, thereby imposing significant global public health and economic burdens. While robust immune responses involving inflammatory cytokines and immune cell infiltration characterize acute infection, the cellular mechanisms underlying pathogenesis and chronicity remain incompletely defined. In this study, we employed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) to comprehensively profile splenic and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) immune responses in rhesus macaques at day 7 post CHIKV infection, an acute phase. Splenic neutrophils marked recruitment, upregulation of S100A8/S100A9, downregulation of interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs), and functional activation marked by degranulation, enhanced anti-apoptotic pathways, and neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) formation, as visualized by multiplex immunofluorescence. Pseudotime trajectories delineated progressive states transitioning from proliferation to effector functions. Splenic T and B cells showed increased abundance with innate-to-adaptive transition signature. Splenic CD4+ and CD8+ T cell subsets and B cell subsets exhibited enrichment for innate immune pathways and translational machinery. In PBMCs, CD8+ T cell subsets and B cell subsets exhibited activation of adhesion, cytokine signaling, and protein homeostasis pathways in infection group. Notably, CHIKV infection induced skewing of T cells toward states enriched for Th1 and Th17 differentiation (marked by NXPE3, LEF1, NFKBIZ expression) in PBMCs. These results delineate the spatiotemporal immune landscape during CHIKV acute phase, in this non-human primate model, identifying neutrophil-mediated inflammation, lymphocyte transcriptional adaptation, and Th1/Th17 polarization as hallmarks of acute phase, offering a detailed cellular map that may inform future investigations into CHIKV pathogenesis and therapeutic strategies.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) with multilineage potential are critical for T cell reconstitution after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (allo-HCT). The Kitlo HSC subset is enriched for multipotential precursors, but their T cell potential remains poorly characterized. Using a preclinical allo-HCT mouse model, we demonstrate that Kitlo HSCs provide superior thymic recovery and T cell reconstitution, resulting in improved immune responses to post-transplant infection. Kitlo HSCs with augmented bone marrow (BM) lymphopoiesis mitigate age-associated thymic alterations and enhance T cell recovery in middle-aged mice. Mechanistically, chromatin profiling reveals Kitlo HSCs exhibiting higher activity of lymphoid-specifying transcription factors, such as, ZBTB1. Zbtb1 deletion diminishes HSC engraftment and T cell potential; by contrast, reinstating Zbtb1 in megakaryocytic-biased Kithi HSCs rescues hematopoietic engraftment and T cell potential in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, age-associated decline in Kitlo HSCs is associated with diminished T lymphopoietic potential in aged BM precursors; meanwhile, Kitlo HSCs in aged mice maintain enhanced lymphoid potential, but their per-cell capacity is diminished. Lastly, we observe an analogous human BM KITlo HSC subset with enhanced lymphoid potential. Our results thus uncover an age-related epigenetic regulation of lymphoid-competent Kitlo HSCs for T cell reconstitution.© 2025. The Author(s).
Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) with multilineage potential are critical for effective T cell reconstitution and restoration of the adaptive immune system after allogeneic Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation (allo-HCT). The Kit lo subset of HSCs is enriched for multipotential precursors, 1, 2 but their T-cell lineage potential has not been well-characterized. We therefore studied the thymic reconstituting and T-cell potential of Kit lo HSCs. Using a preclinical allo-HCT model, we demonstrate that Kit lo HSCs support better thymic recovery, and T-cell reconstitution resulting in improved T cell responses to infection post-HCT. Furthermore, Kit lo HSCs with augmented BM lymphopoiesis mitigate age-associated thymic alterations, thus enhancing T-cell recovery in middle-aged hosts. We find the frequency of the Kit lo subset declines with age, providing one explanation for the reduced frequency of T-competent HSCs and reduced T-lymphopoietic potential in BM precursors of aged mice. 3, 4, 5 Chromatin profiling revealed that Kit lo HSCs exhibit higher activity of lymphoid-specifying transcription factors (TFs), including Zbtb1 . Deletion of Zbtb1 in Kit lo HSCs diminished their T-cell potential, while reinstating Zbtb1 in megakaryocytic-biased Kit hi HSCs rescued T-cell potential, in vitro and in vivo . Finally, we discover an analogous Kit lo HSC subset with enhanced lymphoid potential in human bone marrow. Our results demonstrate that Kit lo HSCs with enhanced lymphoid potential have a distinct underlying epigenetic program.
Alternative splicing is a prevalent gene-regulatory mechanism, with over 95% of multi-exon human genes estimated to be alternatively spliced. Here, we describe a tissue-specific, developmentally regulated, highly conserved, and disease-associated alternative splicing event in exon 7 of the eyes absent homolog 3 (Eya3) gene. We discovered that EYA3 expression is vital to the proliferation and differentiation of myoblasts. Genome-wide transcriptomic analysis and mass spectrometry-based proteomic studies identified SIX homeobox 4 (SIX4) and zinc finger and BTB-domain containing 1 (ZBTB1), as major transcription factors that interact with EYA3 to dictate gene expression. EYA3 isoforms differentially regulate transcription, indicating that splicing aids in temporal control of gene expression during muscle cell differentiation. Finally, we identified RNA-binding fox-1 homolog 2 (RBFOX2) as the main regulator of EYA3 splicing. Together, our findings illustrate the interplay between alternative splicing and transcription during myogenesis.© 2023 The Authors.
Introduction: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a common cancer associated with poor outcomes, underscoring a need for the identification of novel prognostic and therapeutic targets to improve outcomes. This study aimed to identify genetic variants and differentially expressed genes (DEGs) using genome-wide DNA and RNA sequencing followed by validation in a large cohort of patients with CRC. Methods: Whole genome and gene expression profiling were used to identify DEGs and genetic alterations in 146 patients with CRC. Gene Ontology, Reactom, GSEA, and Human Disease Ontology were employed to study the biological process and pathways involved in CRC. Survival analysis on dysregulated genes in patients with CRC was conducted using Cox regression and Kaplan-Meier analysis. The STRING database was used to construct a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network. Moreover, candidate genes were subjected to ML-based analysis and the Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve. Subsequently, the expression of the identified genes was evaluated by Real-time PCR (RT-PCR) in another cohort of 64 patients with CRC. Gene variants affecting the regulation of candidate gene expressions were further validated followed by Whole Exome Sequencing (WES) in 15 patients with CRC. Results: A total of 3576 DEGs in the early stages of CRC and 2985 DEGs in the advanced stages of CRC were identified. ASPHD1 and ZBTB12 genes were identified as potential prognostic markers. Moreover, the combination of ASPHD and ZBTB12 genes was sensitive, and the two were considered specific markers, with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.934, 1.00, and 0.986, respectively. The expression levels of these two genes were higher in patients with CRC. Moreover, our data identified two novel genetic variants-the rs925939730 variant in ASPHD1 and the rs1428982750 variant in ZBTB1-as being potentially involved in the regulation of gene expression. Conclusions: Our findings provide a proof of concept for the prognostic values of two novel genes-ASPHD1 and ZBTB12-and their associated variants (rs925939730 and rs1428982750) in CRC, supporting further functional analyses to evaluate the value of emerging biomarkers in colorectal cancer.
The objective was to characterize endometrial transcriptome on d 17 of gestation in dairy cows according to conceptus length. Nonlactating Holstein cows (n = 48) were slaughtered 17 d after AI and the uterine horn ipsilateral to the corpus luteum (CL) was flushed with saline solution. Recovered conceptuses were classified as small (1.2-6.9 cm; n = 9), medium (10.5-16.0 cm; n = 9), or large (18.0-26.4 cm; n = 10). Samples of intercaruncular endometrium dissected from the caudal, intermediate, and cranial portions of the uterine horn ipsilateral to the pregnancy were pooled for analyses. Total mRNA was extracted from endometrial tissue and subjected to transcriptome analyses using the Affymetrix Gene Chip Bovine array. Data were normalized using the GCRMA method and analyzed by robust regression using the Linear Models for Microarray library within Bioconductor in R. Transcripts with P ≤ 0.05 after adjustment for false discovery rate and fold change ≥1.5 were considered differentially expressed. Functional analyses were conducted using the Ingenuity Pathway Analysis platform. Comparisons between endometria of cows carrying large versus small (LvsS), large versus medium (LvsM), and medium versus small (MvsS) conceptuses yielded a total of 235, 21, and 94 differentially expressed transcripts, respectively. Top canonical pathways included the antigen presentation pathway and Th1/Th2 activation pathways, both for LvsS and MvsS. Interferon-α and -γ were identified as activated upstream regulators, primarily based on differently expressed transcripts such as IDO1, ISG20, WARS, LGALS9, IFI44, and PSMB9 (LvsS and MvsS). For LvsS, regulator analyses revealed predicted activation of FOXO1, IFN, NFACTC2, IL-12, IL-6, and IL-18, whereas it depicted inhibition of IL10RA and ZBTB1. Changes in these regulators were associated with a downstream activation of leukocytes, as well as quantity and expansion of T lymphocytes. Canonical pathways associated with the comparison LvsM included cell cycle G2/M DNA damage checkpoint regulation, cell cycle control of chromosomal replication. Moreover, tretinoin was predicted, as activated in upstream analysis for the same comparison. In conclusion, most of the differently expressed transcripts in the endometrium on d 17 of gestation were identified between cows carrying small conceptuses compared with counterparts carrying medium and large conceptuses and were involved with pathways associated with modulation of the immune response.© 2023, The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. and Fass Inc. on behalf of the American Dairy Science Association®. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
Hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells can differentiate into all types of blood cells. Regulatory mechanisms underlying pluripotency in progenitors, such as the ability of lymphoid progenitor cells to differentiate into T-lineage, remain unclear. We have previously reported that LIM domain only 2 (Lmo2), a bridging factor in large transcriptional complexes, is essential to retain the ability of lymphoid progenitors to differentiate into T-lineage. However, biochemical characterization of Lmo2 protein complexes in physiological hematopoietic progenitors remains obscure. Here, we identified approximately 600 Lmo2-interacting molecules in a lymphoid progenitor cell line by two-step affinity purification with LC-MS/MS analysis. Zinc finger and BTB domain containing 1 (Zbtb1) and CBFA2/RUNX1 partner transcriptional corepressor 3 (Cbfa2t3) were found to be the functionally important binding partners of Lmo2. We determined CRISPR/Cas9-mediated acute disruption of Zbtb1 or Cbfa2t3 in the lymphoid progenitor or bone marrow-derived primary hematopoietic progenitor cells causes significant defects in the initiation of T-cell development when Notch signaling is activated. Our transcriptome analysis of Zbtb1- or Cbfa2t3-deficient lymphoid progenitors revealed that Tcf7 was a common target for both factors. Additionally, ChIP-seq analysis showed that Lmo2, Zbtb1, and Cbfa2t3 cobind to the Tcf7 upstream enhancer region, which is occupied by the Notch intracellular domain/RBPJ transcriptional complex after Notch stimulation, in lymphoid progenitors. Moreover, transduction with Tcf7 restored the defect in the T-lineage potential of Zbtb1-deficient lymphoid progenitors. Thus, in lymphoid progenitors, the Lmo2/Zbtb1/Cbfa2t3 complex directly binds to the Tcf7 locus and maintains responsiveness to the Notch-mediated inductive signaling to facilitate T-lineage differentiation.Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Zbtb1 (zinc finger and BTB domain containing 1) is a member of mammalian zbtb gene family. A series of bioinformatics analysis was carried out for the EL4 cell and the Zbtb1-deficient EL4 cell by Hi-C, ATAC-seq and RNA-seq techniques. Finally, Hi-C results showed that the intensity of chromatin interaction in the deletion group decreased with distance, the degree of chromosome interaction decreased significantly, the AB division region changed significantly, and the compactness of TAD structure decreased; The results of ATAC-seq showed that the open area and degree of chromatin in the deletion group decreased; 7778 differentially expressed mRNAs were found by RNA-seq. Our experimental results for the first time expounded the significance of Zbtb1 gene for T cell development, lymphocyte production and apoptosis from the aspects of chromosome spatial structure and chromatin opening degree, and provided relevant theoretical basis and data support for the in-depth study of related Zbtb1 genes in the future.Copyright © 2022 Wang, Shi, Cheng, Lu, Zhang, Li, Sun, Li, Li, Zeng, Wang and Cao.
A variety of circular RNAs (circRNAs) have tumor-regulatory roles in breast cancer (BC). Circ_0000442 was reported to inhibit the progression of BC, and this study was designed to explore the novel functional mechanism of circ_0000442 in BC. The expression analysis for circ_0000442, microRNA-1229-3p (miR-1229-3p) and zinc finger and BTB domain containing 1 (ZBTB1) was performed using the quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Dual-luciferase reporter assay was used to affirm the target interaction. Cell proliferation was examined using Edu assay and colony formation assay. Cell migration and invasion were assessed by transwell assay. Flow cytometry was applied for the detection of cell apoptosis. Glycolysis was analyzed using the detection kits to measure the glucose consumption and lactate production. The protein expression levels were determined by western blot. The role of circ_0000442 in BC in vivo was explored using tumor xenograft assay. Circ_0000442 expression was downregulated and miR-1229-3p expression was upregulated in BC tissues and cells. Circ_0000442 directly interacted with miR-1229-3p. Circ_0000442 repressed proliferation, migration, invasion and glycolysis but promoted apoptosis in BC cells. The anti-tumor role of circ_0000442 was attributed to the sponge effect on miR-1229-3p. ZBTB1 was a downstream target for miR-1229-3p. Downregulation of miR-1229-3p blocked the malignant behaviors in BC cells by elevating the expression of ZBTB1. Circ_0000442 regulated the ZBTB1 level by targeting miR-1229-3p, and it inhibited tumor growth of BC in vivo by mediating the miR-1229-3p/ZBTB1 axis. All evidence unraveled that circ_0000442 impeded the progression of BC by sponging miR-1229-3p to evoke the ZBTB1 expression upregulation.© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
In previous experiments, we identified the effect of deletion of the Zbtb1 gene on circRNAs and microRNAs. In this study, we examined the expression profiles of lncRNAs and mRNAs using the RNA-seq method for Zbtb1-deficient EL4 cells and performed a clustering analysis of differentially expressed lncRNAs and mRNAs. GO term histograms and KEGG scatter plots were drawn. For the experimental results, a joint analysis was performed, which predicted the regulatory relationships among lncRNAs, mRNAs, microRNAs and circRNAs. For the regulatory relationship between lncRNAs and target genes, the chromatin structure and the degree of openness were verified for the possible target gene locations regulated by lncRNA using experimental methods such as Hi-C and ATAC-seq. Ultimately, the possible differential regulation of the Brcal and Dennd5d genes by lncRNAs and the differential changes in transcription factor binding sites in the promoter region were identified. For neRNA-regulated target genes with significantly differentially expressed mRNAs, a combined screen was performed, and the final obtained candidate target genes were subjected to GO and KEGG term enrichment analyses. Our results illustrate that the Zbtb1 gene can not only function as a regulatory factor but also regulate EL4 cells from multiple perspectives based on ceRNA theory.Copyright © 2021 Wang, Li, Lu, Huang, Sun, Cheng, Li, Shi, Zeng, Wang and Cao.
Previous genome-wide association studies revealed multiple common variants involved in eczema but the role of rare variants remains to be elucidated. Here, we investigate the role of rare variants in eczema susceptibility. We meta-analyze 21 study populations including 20,016 eczema cases and 380,433 controls. Rare variants are imputed with high accuracy using large population-based reference panels. We identify rare exonic variants in DUSP1, NOTCH4, and SLC9A4 to be associated with eczema. In DUSP1 and NOTCH4 missense variants are predicted to impact conserved functional domains. In addition, five novel common variants at SATB1-AS1/KCNH8, TRIB1/LINC00861, ZBTB1, TBX21/OSBPL7, and CSF2RB are discovered. While genes prioritized based on rare variants are significantly up-regulated in the skin, common variants point to immune cell function. Over 20% of the single nucleotide variant-based heritability is attributable to rare and low-frequency variants. The identified rare/low-frequency variants located in functional protein domains point to promising targets for novel therapeutic approaches to eczema.© 2021. The Author(s).
Heterotopic pancreas (HP) is a rare congenital anomaly characterized by pancreatic tissue lacking anatomical and vascular continuity with the orthotopic pancreas. Although usually asymptomatic and incidentally diagnosed, HP may rarely become clinically significant due to inflammation, ulceration, bleeding, obstruction, or gastrointestinal perforation. Systemic conditions such as amyloidosis, chronic kidney disease (CKD), and chronic hemodialysis may further increase gastrointestinal vulnerability through vascular fragility, impaired mucosal healing, and recurrent splanchnic hypoperfusion. We present the case of a patient with systemic amyloidosis and end-stage CKD on maintenance hemodialysis through a recently created brachial-basilic arteriovenous fistula who developed progressive gastrointestinal symptoms followed by acute abdomen. Initial manifestations included nausea and projectile vomiting one day after fistula creation, followed by progressive right upper quadrant abdominal pain radiating to the lumbar region, semiliquid bowel movements, dehydration, and hemodynamic instability. Imaging studies suggested a perforated viscus with intra-abdominal inflammatory changes. Emergency exploratory laparotomy revealed perforation at the antro-duodenal junction with diffuse fibrinous peritonitis and multiple cystic peritoneal lesions suspicious for malignant disease. Surgical management consisted of segmental gastroduodenal resection, extensive peritoneal lavage, targeted peritoneal biopsies, cholecystectomy, and appendectomy. Histopathological examination demonstrated heterotopic pancreatic tissue associated with ulceration and perforation. Immunohistochemistry of the peritoneal lesions showed positivity for WT1 and calretinin, consistent with benign peritoneal inclusion cysts. This case highlights an exceptionally rare cause of gastrointestinal perforation and underscores the importance of integrating clinical evolution, systemic comorbidities, intraoperative findings, pathology, and immunohistochemistry into surgical decision-making. The coexistence of amyloidosis, CKD, and hemodialysis-related hypoperfusion likely contributed synergistically to mucosal vulnerability and perforation.Copyright © 2026, Sordia Marquez et al.
Foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) is a highly contagious infectious disease caused by foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV). FMDV replicates not only in epithelial cells, where it induces vesicular lesions, but also in myocardial and skeletal muscle tissues, leading to myocarditis and even fatal outcomes in infected animals. RIPK3/MLKL-mediated necroptosis is a proinflammatory cell death process that plays a significant role in viral infections. However, whether FMDV infection can trigger necroptosis in host cells remains unclear.We assessed necroptosis induced by FMDV infection through activation of the RIPK3/MLKL pathway in PK-15 and BHK-21 cells. Specific inhibitors GSK'872 (targeting RIPK3 phosphorylation) and NSA (targeting MLKL phosphorylation) were applied to examine the impact of this pathway on viral replication. Additionally, Co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) was used to analyze the interactions between FMDV-encoded proteins and RIPK3/MLKL, and AlphaFold3 was used to predict the interaction interface between the 3D protein and the RHIM-containing region of RIPK3.FMDV infection activated the RIPK3/MLKL pathway and induced necroptosis in both PK-15 and BHK-21 cells. Inhibitor assays revealed that blocking RIPK3 or MLKL phosphorylation significantly reduced FMDV VP1 expression and viral titers, indicating that the necroptosis pathway favors FMDV replication. Further investigation revealed that the FMDV non-structural protein 3D is the key protein responsible for activating RIPK3/MLKL pathway. Moreover, we confirmed that the 3D protein interacts and colocalizes with RIPK3. AlphaFold3 structural prediction suggested that 3D can directly associate with the RHIM-containing region of RIPK3, with residues R320, H322, E324, and Y346 of 3D interacting with residues N466, V469, and K471 of RIPK3 at the interface.Our results demonstrate that FMDV infection induces necroptosis in host cells. This finding expands the modes of host cell death caused by FMDV infection, advances the understanding of the role of necroptosis in viral infections, and may help elucidate the pathogenic mechanisms of FMDV.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Yin, Zhang, He, Zhao, Ji and Bao.
BACKGROUND Primary clear cell carcinoma of the colon is an exceptionally rare condition. It is still uncertain whether this carcinoma represents a separate biological category or simply a variant of typical colorectal cancer. From a diagnostic standpoint, the presence of clear cell morphology introduces significant challenges, as similar features can be observed in various other carcinomas, including renal, ovarian, and endometrial carcinoma. Typically, primary colorectal tumors demonstrate positivity for markers such as CK20 and CDX2, supporting intestinal origin. CASE REPORT We present a case of primary clear cell carcinoma of the sigmoid colon, with no adenoma component, in a 69-year-old woman. The tumor was detected on routine bowel screening colonoscopy, and the patient underwent anterior resection of a pT3N2b sigmoid tumor with prophylactic oophorectomy and salpingectomy. In contrast to the positivity for intestinal-origin markers typically seen in primary colorectal tumors, in this case, the histopathological and immunohistochemical analyses revealed that the tumor was positive for AMACR, CK7, and PAX 8 and negative for WT1, ER, PR, P16, CD10, CDX2, and CK20. These results were consistent with colonic clear cell carcinoma. CONCLUSIONS Specific data on colorectal clear cell carcinoma in Ireland and worldwide are limited. In academic literature, few cases have been documented. The presence of clear cell morphology in colon tumors presents significant diagnostic challenges, necessitating careful radiological and histopathological evaluation, which should be correlated with the patient's clinical history. This case was documented due to the extreme rarity of this condition and the diagnostic difficulties it poses, particularly in distinguishing clear cell carcinoma of the colon from conventional adenocarcinoma.
Desmoplastic small round cell tumor (DSRCT) is an extremely rare and highly aggressive soft-tissue sarcoma that predominantly affects adolescents and young male patients. This malignancy is defined by the t(11;22) (p13;q12) chromosomal translocation, which generates the EWSR1-WT1 fusion gene. Owing to its rarity and aggressive clinical behavior, standardized treatment strategies for DSRCT have not yet been established.A 13-year-old boy presented with increased defecation frequency and progressive weight loss. Serum cancer antigen 125 (CA125) levels were markedly elevated at 187.00 U/mL. Contrast-enhanced abdominal computed tomography (CT) revealed a large heterogeneous mass with calcifications in the left epigastrium, invading the adjacent intestinal loops. CT-guided biopsy combined with immunohistochemical staining demonstrated positive expression of desmin, cytokeratin pan (CKpan), and vimentin in the tumor. Targeted next-generation sequencing (NGS) confirmed the presence of EWSR1-WT1 fusion, supporting the diagnosis of DSRCT. The patient received comprehensive multimodal treatment, including neoadjuvant chemotherapy, cytoreductive surgery, multiple lines of systemic chemotherapy, combined chemoimmunotherapy, and tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy. Nevertheless, the tumor relapsed repeatedly, and chemotherapy resistance gradually emerged during sequential treatment.We report a pediatric case of intra-abdominal DSRCT harboring EWSR1-WT1 fusion. The patient was diagnosed with an advanced stage disease at the initial presentation. Immunohistochemical and molecular analyses revealed a WT1-negative phenotype and dual EWSR1-WT1 fusion breakpoints, which are atypical findings compared with most reported DSRCT cases. Despite these unusual molecular features, a definitive diagnosis of DSRCT was established. The tumor inevitably progressed despite intensive multimodal intervention. This case further demonstrates the highly aggressive nature of DSRCT, which is associated with a high risk of local recurrence and distant metastasis. Novel systemic and targeted therapies are urgently needed to improve the clinical outcomes of affected patients.Copyright © 2026 Li, Jiang, Tan and Deng.
Although transcriptome studies have been performed in cell culture models of HBV infection, the in vivo hepatic transcriptional response to persistent HBV expression remains incompletely characterized. In addition, whether HBV is associated with activation of necroptotic signaling in the liver has not been fully clarified. Therefore, this study aimed to: (1) define transcriptomic alterations in livers from an HBV transgenic mouse model; and (2) explore whether ZBP1-associated necroptotic signaling is present in HBV-Tg livers by integrating RNA-seq, bioinformatic analysis, and biochemical validation. We utilized an HBV transgenic mouse model and characterized it by measuring serum HBV DNA, HBsAg, AST, ALT, and TBIL levels and by performing hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining. Subsequently, the expression of protein-coding genes in HBV transgenic and control mice was analyzed by next-generation RNA sequencing (RNA-seq). Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified using EdgeR with thresholds of |log2(fold change)| > 1 and P value < 0.05. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses were performed on the DEGs. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed based on the STRING database, and PPI modules were analyzed using the MCODE plugin in Cytoscape. Finally, we evaluated ZBP1-associated necroptotic signaling by examining the protein levels of ZBP1 and phosphorylated RIPK3/MLKL by Western blot. We identified 815 candidate differentially expressed genes, including 412 upregulated and 403 downregulated genes in HBV-Tg livers compared with control livers. KEGG pathway analysis indicated enrichment of immune-related pathways, metabolic pathways, and viral infection-related pathways. Zbp1 drew further attention because it was increased in HBV-Tg livers and located within an interferon/innate immune-related PPI module. At the protein level, ZBP1, p-RIPK3, and p-MLKL were increased in HBV-Tg livers. These findings suggest elevated ZBP1-associated necroptosis-related markers in the HBV-Tg liver model. We profiled gene expression in livers from HBV-Tg and control mice using RNA-seq and identified candidate DEGs, GO terms, and pathway terms associated with HBV-related liver responses. Our data support an association between HBV-Tg liver status and increased ZBP1, p-RIPK3, and p-MLKL expression. However, additional functional studies are required to determine cell specificity, causal direction, and the contribution of this signaling axis to liver injury.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42551836 is a review article
Primary ovarian synovial sarcoma is an exceedingly rare malignancy that may mimic more common ovarian tumors, particularly in adolescents, posing significant diagnostic challenges.A 14-year-old girl presented with progressive abdominal distension and respiratory compromise. Imaging revealed a large mixed solid-cystic adnexal mass with ascites and pleural effusion. Serum CA-125 was elevated, while AFP and CEA were normal. The patient underwent right salpingo-oophorectomy and omentectomy. Histopathology showed a monophasic spindle cell neoplasm with focal cartilaginous differentiation. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated diffuse nuclear positivity for SS18 and TLE1, with co-expression of BCL-2, CD99, and EMA, while inhibin, calretinin, and WT-1 were negative. The positive SS18 immunohistochemical staining provided additional diagnostic confirmation of synovial sarcoma, supporting the diagnosis in conjunction with the characteristic histopathologic findings. The patient deteriorated rapidly and died before initiation of chemotherapy.Primary ovarian synovial sarcoma is a rare and aggressive tumor that can mimic germ cell neoplasms. Accurate diagnosis requires careful integration of histopathology and immunohistochemistry. Although molecular confirmation remains the diagnostic gold standard, SS18 fusion-specific immunohistochemistry provides a reliable diagnostic surrogate when molecular testing is unavailable.© 2026 The Authors.
Necroptosis is implicated in the pathogenesis of various inflammatory diseases, including periodontitis. This study aimed to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying necroptosis in gingival fibroblasts (GFs) and to evaluate the therapeutic potential of AdipoAI, a novel adiponectin receptor agonist, administered locally, along with its regulatory effect on necroptosis.Analysis of single-cell RNA sequencing data using the AUCell scoring system demonstrated significant activation of necroptosis in human periodontal tissues, with GFs identified as the primary cellular target. Integrated approaches, including molecular docking, co-immunoprecipitation, and immunofluorescence, revealed a physical association between phosphorylated AMP-activated protein kinase (p-AMPK) and Receptor-Interacting Protein Kinase 3 (RIPK3). Additionally, we established a mouse model of experimental periodontitis and an LPS/AZD'5582/z-VAD-fmk (LAZ)-induced necroptosis model in hGFs. Techniques including Western blotting, flow cytometry, and transmission electron microscopy were employed to evaluate the effects of AdipoAI administration.Local administration of AdipoAI significantly alleviated gingival inflammation and alveolar bone resorption in mice. In hGFs, AdipoAI effectively suppressed the activation of p-RIPK3 and phosphorylated Mixed Lineage Kinase Domain-Like protein (p-MLKL) and reduced the production of inflammatory factors. Mechanistic investigations revealed that AdipoAI binds to Adiponectin Receptor 1 (AdipoR1) - adiponectin receptor interacting protein (APPL1) to activate the AMPK signaling pathway, facilitating the association between p-AMPK and RIPK3, thereby inhibiting RIPK3/MLKL-mediated necroptosis.This study is the first to unveil a mechanism by which AdipoAI suppresses GF necroptosis through p-AMPK-mediated RIPK3 regulation, offering new strategic insights and experimental evidence for targeted periodontitis therapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Several gonadal neoplasms harbor recurrent CTNNB1 mutations, including sex cord-stromal tumors, such as Sertoli cell tumor, NOS and gonadal signet ring stromal tumor, ovarian and testicular microcystic stromal tumor (MCST), in addition to gonadal solid pseudopapillary neoplasms (SPN). Despite being classified as separate entities, they have notable morphologic and immunophenotypic similarities. Of note, gonadal SPNs have been regarded as the counterparts of pancreatic SPN, but their relationship remains poorly understood. We analyzed 28 gonadal sex cord-stromal tumors, including testicular Sertoli cell tumors NOS (n=8), MCSTs (n=2), and signet ring stromal tumor (n=6), ovarian MCSTs (n=11), signet ring stromal tumor (n=1), together with ovarian SPNs (n=4) and pancreatic SPNs (n=9). Histologic features were reviewed, and immunohistochemistry for SF-1, SOX9, WT1, β-catenin, inhibin, and calretinin was performed. CTNNB1 mutation status was assessed by NGS in selected cases. DNA methylation profiling was performed successfully in 25 tumors (61%). All gonadal tumors showed overlapping morphologic features, comprising variable combinations of tubular, solid, signet ring and microcystic patterns, although the abundance of individual patterns varied between entities. Pancreatic SPNs showed similar cytologic features to gonadal tumors and commonly exhibited solid and pseudopapillary architecture with frequent cystic structures but lacked true tubular differentiation. Immunohistochemically, SF-1 expression was present in 27/31 (87%) tested gonadal tumors whereas all pancreatic SPNs were negative (4/4). Diffuse nuclear β-catenin expression was identified in all evaluable gonadal and pancreatic tumors (35/35, 100%). SOX9 and WT1 were expressed in 19/21 (90%) and 24/25 (96%) of gonadal tumors, respectively. In contrast, pancreatic SPNs were negative for SF-1 and WT1 in all evaluable cases (4/4 each), with only a single case showing focal SOX9 positivity. Inhibin and calretinin expression was largely absent in gonadal tumors, with only rare focal or weak positivity (3 cases) and a single ovarian MCST showing diffuse calretinin expression. Methylation analysis demonstrated closely related epigenetic profiles among gonadal CTNNB1-driven tumors, regardless of their histologic classification, whereas pancreatic SPNs formed a separate cluster. These findings indicate that several CTNNB1-driven tumors of the gonads currently classified as different entities share morphologic, immunophenotypic, and epigenetic features, supporting the concept that they represent variations within the same spectrum. Despite some morphologic overlap, these gonadal tumors are different from pancreatic SPN based on DNA methylation signatures.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Prognostication in acute liver failure (ALF) due to acetaminophen (APAP) and other causes of drug-induced liver injury (DILI) remains challenging. Biologically informed prognostic biomarkers may complement existing tools and improve early risk stratification. The aim of this study was to investigate associations between circulating mediators of inflammatory cell-death and 21-day transplant-free survival (TFS) in ALF.We conducted a nested case-control study of 176 adults with ALF selected from the Acute Liver Failure Study Group registry due to APAP and DILI. Serum levels of receptor-interacting protein kinase 3 (RIPK3), mixed lineage kinase domain-like protein (MLKL), gasdermin D (GSDMD), and gasdermin E (GSDME) were measured at admission (day 1) and day 4. Associations with 21-day TFS were evaluated using multivariable logistic regression and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analyses. Machine learning methods were used to characterise patient heterogeneity and assess robustness of biomarker-outcome associations.86 ALF patients were alive at day 21 without a liver transplant (LT), while 90 died or received LT. Lower admission RIPK3 levels were independently associated with 21-day TFS after adjustment for clinically relevant covariates, including aetiology, MELD score, and organ support requirements (adjusted odds ratio 1.10 per 1-ng/mL decrease; 95% CI, 1.03-1.17). Incorporation of RIPK3 into clinical models at admission improved discrimination compared with established prognostic tools (AUROC 0.87; 95% CI, 0.81-0.92). The prognostic association of RIPK3 was most evident in patients with greater physiological severity at presentation.Serum RIPK3 is independently associated with transplant-free survival in ALF and improves the discriminative performance of clinical prognostic models. These findings support RIPK3 as a candidate prognostic biomarker in ALF.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The prostate is one of the important androgen-dependent organs in the male reproductive system. Although its ability for local steroid hormone synthesis is recognized, the regulatory mechanisms, particularly the role of hormones and the seasonal steroidogenesis expression within the tissue, remain unclear. This study investigated the phenomenon in the seasonal breeder muskrat (Ondatra zibethicus) by comparing breeding (B) and non-breeding (NB) season prostates through histology, immunohistochemistry (IHC), RT-qPCR, and hormone assays. Anatomy shows that the prostate is markedly enlarged during the breeding season. Immunohistochemistry revealed a marked cellular compartmentalization: luteinizing hormone receptor (LHR), steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR), and Steroid 5-alpha-reductase 2 (SRD5A2) were predominant in epithelial cells, whereas cytochrome P450 family 11 subfamily A member 1 (P450scc) and steroid 17 alpha-hydroxylase (P450c17) were primarily localized to stromal cells. The gene expression of steroidogenesis pathway was coordinately upregulated in the breeding season, and largely downregulated in the non-breeding season, which was further validated at the protein level by Western blot analysis showing significantly higher expression of LHR, P450scc, SRD5A2, and androgen receptor (AR) in the breeding season compared to the non-breeding season. The prostate in the breeding season was contained higher levels of intra-tissue testosterone (T) and dihydrotestosterone (DHT). To investigate the underlying mechanism, we performed in vitro experiments using primary cultured muskrat prostate cells. Furthermore, in vitro experiments demonstrated that human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) treatment promoted the expression of LHR and steroidogenic enzymes, as well as elevated the secretion of T and DHT into the culture media. This induction was inhibited by the Protein Kinase A (PKA) inhibitor H89, which also abolished the HCG-induced increase in T and DHT secretion. H89 pre-treatment abolished the HCG-induced upregulation, confirming the presence of the LH-PKA pathway regulating steroidogenesis in the prostate. Taken together, our results reveal that LH-mediated activation of local steroidogenesis may regulate the seasonal growth of prostates in male muskrats.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Evidence regarding the efficacy and safety of sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) in monogenic diabetes is limited. We evaluated real-world metabolic, renal, and safety outcomes of SGLT2i therapy in adults with monogenic diabetes.This multicenter retrospective study included adults with genetically confirmed monogenic diabetes treated with SGLT2i. Clinical and biological data were collected at baseline and after approximately 1 and 2 years. Longitudinal changes were analysed using linear mixed-effects models adjusted for baseline value, age, and sex and treatment intensification.Forty patients (mean age 48.6 ± 15.2 years) with MIDD (n = 16), HNF1B-MODY (n = 9), HNF1A/HNF4A-MODY (n = 11), or other MODY subtypes (ABCC8, INS, RFX6; n = 4) were followed for 23.9 ± 5.9 months. HbA1c remained stable overall but decreased significantly in patients with baseline HbA1c ≥ 8% (9.6% ± 1.3% to 7.6% ± 0.7%; p = 0.001). UACR declined significantly (-35.6% at 1 year and -43.5% at 2 years; p = 0.004), particularly in those with baseline CKD (trend). Genotype-specific trends suggested greater glycemic improvement in HNF1A/HNF4A-MODY and greater UACR reduction in MIDD. eGFR declined modestly over time. Non-serious adverse events occurred in 15% of patients, 7.5% discontinued treatment, and no ketoacidosis, acute kidney injury, or deaths were reported.In this nationwide cohort of patients with monogenic diabetes-the largest reported to date-SGLT2i therapy was associated with improved glycemic control in individuals with baseline HbA1c ≥ 8%, reduced albuminuria, and showed a favourable safety profile. These findings support SGLT2i as a potential therapeutic option that warrants confirmation in larger controlled studies.© 2026 The Author(s). Diabetes, Obesity and Metabolism published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Steroid 5α-reductase deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive condition caused by mutations in the SRD5A2 gene that leads to a severe virilisation deficit of the external genitalia in individuals with a 46,XY karyotype. Here we report an adult 46,XY person with clinically confirmed steroid 5α-reductase deficiency. Sanger sequencing revealed a compound heterozygous, maternal, pathogenic c.692A > G; p.(His231Arg) variant and a very rare paternal c.*66T > G variant in the 3'-UTR. RT-PCR products of individual's derived genital skin fibroblasts revealed that only the maternal variant is expressed while the paternal variant could not be detected. PacBio RNA Isosequencing revealed that the variant c.*66T > G introduces a new strong splice donor site 66 nt after the canonical stop codon that is spliced to an inverted Alu sequence located 15 kb downstream. In all paternal, but none of the maternal transcripts, we found a new exon junction 66 nt after the stop codon within the 3'-UTR. Mammalian transcripts with an intron excision site > 55 nt downstream from a termination codon are subject to degradation by the nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) pathway. We conclude that the pathogenic maternal variant, together with the NMD-triggered downregulation of the paternal allele, is causative for the observed SRD5A2 deficiency.© 2026. The Author(s).
This discovery study investigated the impact of MODY-associated mutations in hepatocyte nuclear factors HNF1A and HNF1B on the cellular proteome, aiming to identify affected pathways and advance understanding of diabetes pathogenesis. Human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) carrying the HNF1A frameshift mutation (p.Pro291fsinsC) were differentiated into pancreatic progenitors, and renal proximal tubule epithelial cells (RPTECs) were engineered to overexpress HNF1B with the S148L point mutation. Label-free quantitative proteomics was performed using data-dependent and data-independent acquisition on Orbitrap and timsTOF mass spectrometers. Pathway enrichment was analyzed using Qiagen IPA, Hallmark gene sets, and STRING networks. Comprehensive proteome coverage (over 7000 proteins) revealed consistent downregulation of oxidative phosphorylation, mitochondrial function, and interferon signaling pathways. Both models exhibited suppression of innate immune responses, with overlapping downregulated proteins, including members of the OAS, IFIT, and MX1 families. Using label-free proteomics, we show that MODY-associated mutations in HNF1A and HNF1B suppress mitochondrial function and interferon signaling and are additionally associated with reduced abundance of predicted targets such as A1CF as well as diabetes-related proteins including SCGN, supporting their role in diabetes pathogenesis.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Complete Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome (CAIS) is a rare X-linked disorder caused by pathogenic variants in the androgen receptor (AR) gene, leading to resistance to androgens in individuals with a 46, XY karyotype.This study aims to describe the clinical and genetic profile of CAIS patients from a tertiary care hospital in northern India. Thirteen consecutive patients with a clinical diagnosis of CAIS evaluated at our centre between August 2013 to May 2025 were included. The evaluation included detailed clinical assessment, hormonal evaluation and genetic analysis. Genetic analysis was performed by using a customized next-generation sequencing panel that included AR gene and nine other genes including WNT4, SRD5A2, CYP21A2, POR, HSD17B3, NR5A1, CYP17A1, SOX9, and CYP11B1. The panel covered whole genes including non-coding regions (splice-site and introns).Ten patients presented at puberty with primary amenorrhea and three patients presented in the pre-pubertal period with bilateral inguinal hernias and phenotypically female external genitalia. Pathogenic or likely pathogenic AR variants were identified in 10 of 13 (76.9%) patients. These include likely three novel variants (missense variant c.2198 A > G; in-frame long deletion c.403_1420delGCGG and splice-site deletion c.1616+3_1616 + 6delAAGT) and two known variants (frameshift insertion c.239_240insGCAGCAGC and canonical splice-site variant c. 2608-1G > T). Notably, 7 of the 10 variants were splice-site variants.This is the largest study of CAIS patients from India. The main contribution of our study is the detection of likely three novel and two known pathogenic variants of AR gene associated with CAIS in a Kashmiri cohort. The high frequency of splice-site variants highlights the need to include non-coding regions in the analysis of AR gene for accurate molecular diagnosis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42534783 is a review article
TACR3 encodes the receptor for neurokinin B, a key regulator of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis. Disruption of this pathway can impair gonadotropin release and male reproductive function. Given the genetic heterogeneity of male infertility, this study aimed to identify novel variants in TACR3 that may underlie asthenozoospermia and related hormonal abnormalities.Fifteen infertile men with confirmed asthenozoospermia were enrolled. Whole-exome sequencing (WES) was performed on genomic DNA from peripheral blood, and the candidate variant was validated by Sanger sequencing. Functional predictions were made using PolyPhen-2, SIFT, MutationTaster, and REVEL. TACR3 mRNA expression levels were assessed by real-time PCR in available samples.A novel splice-site variant, TACR3 (NM_001059.3:c.888 + 1G > A), was detected and found to segregate with infertility in one family, appearing homozygously in two infertile brothers and heterozygously in the proband with severe asthenozoospermia. The variant was absent in public and local genomic databases, suggesting its extremely rare frequency. Furthermore, RT-PCR showed a dramatic reduction or complete loss of TACR3 expression in affected individuals, confirming its deleterious effect on splicing and mRNA stability.We identified a previously unreported splice-site mutation in TACR3 (c.888 + 1G > A) that likely causes familial infertility by disrupting the neurokinin B/NK3R signaling pathway. While the heterozygous proband exhibited severe asthenozoospermia, the homozygous brothers displayed hormonal profiles typical of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. These findings extend the mutational landscape of TACR3 and highlight its essential contribution to male reproductive endocrinology.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society for Reproductive Investigation.
Current treatment options for hair loss remain limited. Therefore, this study compared a botanical extract derived from multiple plants with the pharmaceutical agent minoxidil for topical application. The evaluated parameters included inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α), growth factors (TGF-β, VEGF, KGF), and 5α-reductase type II (SRD5A2) expression in the human keratinocyte cell line HaCaT, as measured by ELISA. Both the botanical extract and minoxidil reduced IL-6 levels by 21% and 35%, and TNF-α levels by 13% and 35%, respectively. Treatment with the botanical extract and minoxidil increased VEGF expression by 50% and 85%, and KGF by 16% and 31%, respectively, while reducing SRD5A2 expression by 21% and 28%, respectively. Overall, the results of this in vitro study suggest that the botanical extract exhibits a response pattern similar to that of minoxidil, characterized by the suppression of pro-inflammatory cytokines and SRD5A2, along with enhanced expression of growth factors VEGF and KGF in HaCaT cells. These results provide a promising basis for further in vivo studies.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42506338 is a review article
This study investigated the heterogeneity and molecular alterations of trabecular meshwork (TM) in glaucomatous non-human primates, aiming to identify potential pathogenic genes and signaling pathways involved in glaucoma.TM tissues were analyzed using 10x Genomics single-cell RNA sequencing on the Illumina platform. After quality control, dimensionality reduction and clustering were performed. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified using Seurat and DESeq2. Functional enrichment analyses were conducted via Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG). Protein expression was assessed by Western blotting, mRNA levels by RT-PCR, protein localization and fluorescence intensity by immunofluorescence, and mitochondrial morphology by transmission electron microscopy.We classified the outflow tissue into 10 cell subtypes, and TM cells were further classified into three subtypes: Beam A, Beam B, and JCT. Beam A cells exhibited the most significant proportional changes, and GO analysis indicated their strong association with extracellular matrix regulation. MGP emerged as the most significantly upregulated gene in both the overall TM population and the Beam A subcluster. Dexamethasone (DEX) treatment induced MGP expression in human primary TM cells, while MGP knockdown partially restored Wnt/β-catenin signaling, decreased Wnt5a levels, and reduced ECM deposition.This study generated a transcriptional atlas of TM in glaucoma. MGP may contribute to TM dysfunction via the Wnt/β-catenin-Wnt5a-ECM signaling pathway, offering novel insights into potential therapeutic targets for glaucoma intervention.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Bone remodeling depends on coordinated signaling between bone-resorbing osteoclasts and bone-forming osteoblasts through locally secreted coupling factors. Disruption of this balance leads to decreased bone mass, resulting in conditions such as osteoporosis. Osteoclast-derived anabolic factors, or clastokines, have emerged as attractive therapeutic candidates with the potential of selectively enhancing bone formation without suppressing resorption. Osteoblast-derived WNT5A is an established coupling factor promoting osteoclastogenesis; however, osteoclast-derived WNT5A specific contribution to bone homeostasis and the downstream mechanism by which it acts on osteoblasts remains undefined.This study aimed to address this gap using a myeloid-specific conditional knockout mouse that selectively targets osteoclast-derived WNT5A while leaving osteoblast-derived WNT5A intact. Wnt5a was conditionally deleted in osteoclast precursors and their progeny using LysM-Cre; Wnt5aF/F mice and both male and female knockout mice were characterized by μCT, histomorphometry, serum bone turnover markers, transcriptomic profiling of osteoblast-enriched cells, and in vitro focal adhesion and migration assays.Both male and female knockout mice displayed significantly reduced trabecular volume compared with controls. This low bone mass phenotype was driven by decreased osteoblast number and activity, with no significant changes in osteoclast number or resorptive function. Transcriptomic profiling of osteoblast-enriched cells revealed dysregulation of genes involved in focal adhesion, integrin binding, and cell communication, alongside upregulation of stress-related gene networks. Histological and functional analyses demonstrated that loss of osteoclast-derived WNT5A impaired extracellular matrix maturation and disrupted osteoblast focal adhesion assembly and migration.Together, our study establishes osteoclast-derived WNT5A as a clastokine that promotes bone formation in vivo by regulating osteoblast migration and adhesion dynamics. These findings establish a mechanistic link between osteoclast secretory activity and osteoblast function and highlight the context-dependent and cell-of-origin specific roles of WNT5A in skeletal homeostasis.Copyright © 2026 Daponte, Gavva, Kapfhamer, Roberts, Henke and Drissi.
The Hippo signaling pathway regulates the development of multiple organs, yet its role in the maturation of adult Leydig cells and testosterone synthesis is unclear. In this study, by integrating bulk RNA sequencing and immunohistochemistry, we characterized the spatiotemporal expression patterns of YAP and TEAD family members during postnatal Leydig cell development. Functional assays combining pharmacological inhibition, genetic knockdown, and CUT&Tag-seq analysis were employed to elucidate the underlying mechanisms, and single-cell transcriptomic data from patients with idiopathic non-obstructive azoospermia (iNOA) were analyzed to assess clinical relevance. Results of single-cell transcriptomic analysis revealed that YAP, TEAD1, and TEAD3 are significantly elevated in Leydig cells from patients with iNOA compared with normal controls. In contrast, under normal physiological conditions, YAP protein levels progressively declined during Leydig cell maturation into adulthood, accompanied by increased phosphorylation (p-YAP). Correspondingly, Tead1 and Tead2 are markedly downregulated as immature Leydig cells differentiate into adult Leydig cells. Functional assays further revealed that knockdown of either YAP or TEAD and K975 treatment significantly increased testosterone synthesis and upregulated the expression of Hsd3b6, Cyp17a1, and Hsd17b3. Mechanistically, the YAP/TEAD complex may transcriptionally repress these steroidogenic genes by restricting the deposition of the active histone mark H3K27ac at their promoter regions. Our findings demonstrate that YAP/TEAD orchestrates postnatal Leydig cell maturation by epigenetically repressing the steroidogenic program, revealing a novel role for the Hippo pathway in male reproductive development and providing insights into the pathogenesis of iNOA.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42552162
Gastric cancer (GC) derives limited benefit from immune checkpoint blockade (ICB), in part due to stromal-mediated immune suppression. To investigate the underlying mechanisms, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing on 14 GC specimens from patients treated with neoadjuvant ICB. We identified a distinct subset of TRPA1+ cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) maintained by tumor-derived midkine (MDK) through LEF1-dependent transcription under ICB pressure. These TRPA1+ CAFs drive immunosuppression by secreting WNT5A, which polarizes SPP1+ macrophages and subsequently promotes the accumulation of CD25 + FOXP3+ regulatory T cells (Tregs) in the tumor microenvironment. Disrupting this stromal-myeloid-lymphoid axis via WNT5A inhibition or SPP1+ macrophage depletion reduced Treg infiltration and enhanced the antitumor efficacy of anti-PD-L1 therapy in vivo. Our study unveils an MDK-TRPA1 + CAF-mediated mechanism of ICB resistance in GC and highlights the WNT5A-SPP1+ macrophage pathway as a promising target to overcome immunotherapy resistance.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Spermatogonial stem cells (SSCs) are responsible for lifelong spermatogenesis in adult males; however, their scarcity and inherent heterogeneity, coupled with the lack of robust SSC-specific surface markers, continue to impede isolation and characterization. In the present study, we found CD71, which corresponds to transferrin receptor (TfR1; encoded by Tfrc), a candidate marker capable of enriching for SSC populations from mouse testes. The immunohistochemistry detected co-localization of CD71 with the undifferentiated spermatogonia marker glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor family receptor alpha 1 (GFRα1) on the seminiferous basement membrane, with approximately 81% co-localization. Consistent with this finding, the expression of Tfrc was up-regulated in SSC-enriched germ cell populations relative to mouse germ cell lines (GC-1 and GC-2) and somatic cell lines from testis (TM3 and TM4). Fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) analysis further showed that GFRα1+ cells exhibited approximately 1.4-fold higher Tfrc mRNA expression than GFRα1- cells. Similarly, CD71+ cells exhibited significantly higher expression of the undifferentiated spermatogonia markers Id4, Lhx1, Gfrα1, Zbtb16, and Etv5. Functional transplantation assays further demonstrate that CD71high cells give rise to approximately 5.5-fold more colonies than freshy isolated, FACS-unsorted donor cells. Moreover, peanut agglutinin (PNA) lectin staining confirmed the normal spermatogenic differentiation within colonies derived from CD71high donor cells. Our findings collectively indicate that CD71high cells represent an SSC-enriched population with enhanced spermatogenic regenerative capacity and support the use of CD71 as a complementary marker for SSC enrichment and fertility restoration.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are natural mediators of intercellular communication through the transfer of cytoplasmic material from donor to recipient cells. The molecular mechanisms governing EV uptake and cargo delivery in recipient cells remain largely elusive. To address this gap, we performed a genetic screening interrogating 300 genes of the dynamic surfaceome for their involvement in EV uptake. Activators found in the screening establish a previously unknown connection between EV uptake and Wnt pathways. We then observed that, unlike WNT-naïve EVs that are primarily trafficked to lysosomes in recipient cells, WNT5A-bearing EVs linger in early endocytic structures. This rerouting is dependent on the expression of RYK, an established co-receptor for WNT5A. Our results depict a mechanism underlying EV functional heterogeneity as well as reveal a potential regulation system for noncanonical WNT signaling.
Gene network enrichment analysis (GNEA) offers a robust approach for interpreting the complex molecular mechanisms underlying phenotypic variability. Despite its utility, prevailing GNEA methodologies are predominantly optimized for binary phenotypes, leading to substantial information loss when applied to continuous biological traits such as drug sensitivity, cancer progression, etc. Additionally, traditional enrichment strategies often exhibit conceptual inconsistency between their null models and test hypotheses, as they rely on permuting phenotype labels rather than genes. To address these limitations, we introduce cell line-specific gene network enrichment analysis (CellGNEA), a computational strategy designed to identify pathway-level molecular interactions associated with continuous phenotypes in a cell line-specific manner. CellGNEA constructs gene regulatory networks tailored to individual cell lines and assesses molecular interplays within these networks by integrating multiple network-derived metrics, including clustering coefficient, PageRank, and regulatory effects. Associations between gene networks and continuous phenotypes are quantified using a Kolmogorov-Smirnov-based statistic, with statistical significance determined via a gene permutation strategy that aligns the null model with the tested hypothesis. Monte Carlo simulation studies indicate that CellGNEA exhibits robustness and enhanced sensitivity in detecting network enrichment linked to continuous phenotypes. Applications of CellGNEA to drug sensitivity-specific gene networks enable the identification of leukemia-related pathways with molecular interactions significantly associated with therapeutic response. Notably, our analysis revealed that imatinib, quizartinib, and ruxolitinib consistently correlate with network-level remodeling across acute myeloid leukemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, and chronic myeloid leukemia pathways, and identified resistance-associated genes including PTPN11, MS4A1, and BTK. Overall, CellGNEA establishes a systematic, scalable framework for functional network analysis of continuous phenotypes, facilitating comprehensive characterization of cell line-specific biological properties and providing valuable insights for systems biology and precision medicine.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Cohesin organizes three-dimensional genome architecture by extruding DNA loops, but the mechanisms specifying its chromatin entry sites remain unclear. Here we show that the cohesin loader NIPBL is prepositioned at highly tissue-specific sites, largely distinct from the broadly conserved binding profiles of CTCF and cohesin. Motif and chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing analyses identify pioneer transcription factors, particularly FOXA1, as key mediators of the tissue-specific NIPBL recruitment. FOXA1 directs NIPBL to intratopologically associating domain (TAD) regions, enabling symmetric loop extrusion, whereas ETS factors guide NIPBL to TAD boundaries, supporting asymmetric extrusion. FOXA1 depletion disrupts NIPBL binding and impairs intra-TAD loops selectively, whereas NIPBL loss reduces both intra-TAD and boundary-to-boundary interactions. In prostate cancer, the recurrent FOXA1 R219S mutation redirects FOXA1-NIPBL to TAD boundaries, fostering a more insulated and aggressive genome. These findings reveal how pioneer factors orchestrate cohesin loading to shape tissue-specific three-dimensional genome organization and how this mechanism is co-opted in cancer.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.
The human small intestine depends on villi to generate the large absorptive surface area required for nutrient uptake and barrier integrity. Existing human in vitro models fail to reproduce early villus morphogenesis, as they lack developmental signaling and epithelial-mesenchymal interactions that drive villus initiation. Such models are crucial for understanding the mechanisms of human villus formation to study intestinal development and disease. This study aimed to establish a human organotypic intestine model that recapitulates early villus development and to compare its features with human embryos. Primary organoid-derived epithelial cells containing intestinal stem and progenitor populations, and Caco-2/HT29 cocultures (as reference) were both cultured on a hydrogel containing primary small-intestinal stromal cells in a Transwell system. Models were assessed by histology, electron microscopy, transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER), permeability assays, gene expression analysis, growth factor secretion, and comparison with human embryonic duodenum (Carnegie stages 20-23). Both models formed polarized epithelial monolayers with sparse microvilli compared with mature in vivo intestine. Strikingly, only the organoid-derived model generated stromal cell and extracellular matrix (ECM)-filled epithelial protrusions with localized laminin deposition. This model activated key developmental pathways (SHH, PDGF-AA, BMP4, and WNT5A), upregulated villus-associated transcription factors (FOXF1, FOXF2, and FOXL1), and expressed laminin isoforms linked to villus initiation. The morphology and height of the protrusions (approx. 28 µm) closely resembled early villi in Carnegie stage 21 embryos.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42454751 is a review article
Variants of uncertain significance (VUS) are being increasingly encountered in contemporary clinical genetics practice. Peripheral blood derived global DNA methylation pattern or Episignatures have been established for several Mendelian disorders.We describe in detail the phenotype, genotype and episignature analysis of two children with atypical presentations of Rubinstein-Taybi and Cornelia de Lange syndromes. Whole exome sequencing showed missense VUS (CREBBP:c.3503A>G p.(Asn1168Ser) and NIPBL:c.6535T>G p.(Tyr2179Asp). Infinium Human Methylation 935 (EPICv2 array) was performed followed by methylation analysis using the EpiSign™ METRIC (Methylation based Episignature Testing and Reference based Interpretation and Classification) V5 assay. METRIC score of 1 suggesting high confidence concordance with the episignature pattern associated with pathogenic variants in CREBBP and NIPBL was obtained.We introduce the METRIC scoring component of the EpiSign™ assay, which provides an integrated assessment of concordance between a patient's methylation profile and established episignatures, representing an evolution from earlier approaches using Methylation Variant Probability (MVP) scoring. While formal guidance for Bayesian point-based use of episignature results is not yet established, this functional evidence has clear potential for future incorporation and may enhance variant interpretation when combined with genomic data.© 2026 S. Karger AG, Basel.
Cohesin-mediated loop extrusion and chromatin state-dependent compartmentalization are major drivers of three-dimensional (3D) genome organization. Although epigenomic perturbations are widely assumed to reshape chromatin architecture, the mechanisms that determine how changes in chromatin state are translated into structural reorganization remain poorly understood. Here, we identify cohesin residence time as a key regulator of the genome's architectural response to histone hyperacetylation induced by histone deacetylase inhibition (HDACi). Acute depletion of RAD21 or CTCF weakens chromatin loops but preserves HDACi-induced changes in compartmentalization, contact-scaling behavior, and loop density. In contrast, perturbation of cohesin loading or release produces opposing effects: NIPBL depletion sensitizes and amplifies architectural responses to HDACi, whereas WAPL loss renders the genome largely refractory to HDACi-induced remodeling, suppressing changes in compartments and loop density while stabilizing CTCF-anchored loops. These distinct architectural outcomes occur despite comparable levels of HDACi-induced histone hyperacetylation across genotypes, indicating that differential epigenomic input is not responsible for the observed effects. Together, our findings demonstrate that dynamic cohesin turnover, rather than cohesin chromatin association alone, governs whether epigenomic perturbations are converted into higher-order genome reorganization. These results establish cohesin residence time as a molecular gate linking chromatin state to 3D genome architecture and reveal a previously unrecognized principle underlying chromatin architecture plasticity.
Orofacial clefts (OFCs) are the most frequent congenital craniofacial anomalies that occur during embryonic development. The incidence is ~ 1 in 700 live births, and it may occur in isolation or with other abnormalities, such as limb deformities. Congenital limb malformations are the second most prevalent birth defect, affecting 1 per 500 to 1000 live births. It can also occur in isolation or as part of a syndrome. This study investigated the genetic etiology of OFCs co-occurring with limb abnormalities in a Sub-Saharan African cohort.Nine unrelated probands with concurrent OFC and limb anomalies were recruited, including one multiplex family involving an affected mother and proband. Whole exome sequencing (WES) was performed at 100X on DNA samples from affected families, utilising a paired-end configuration on the Illumina HiSeq platform. Variant calling utilized the Sentieon workflow. Rare, deleterious variants were identified in accordance with the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) guidelines on variant classification. De novo and other variants predicted as pathogenic were prioritized based on all possible Mendelian inheritance patterns, including variable penetrance and expressivity. Pathway enrichment analysis, protein-protein interactions, and gene expression analysis were undertaken to decipher the biological functions of implicated genes.All cases were syndromic, presenting with preaxial and postaxial limb anomalies along with other craniofacial features. WES revealed plausible pathogenic variants in pleiotropic genes (TP63, NIPBL, MYH3, and FGFR2) in four simplex cases. In four other simplex probands, multiple rare variants were identified in developmentally relevant genes (e.g., RGPD5, FAM90A26, FOXD4L1, FAM170A, TRIM74, TRIM73, and PRDM9) necessary for normal craniofacial and limb development. The multiplex family had two affected individuals (the mother and the proband), both carrying a TP63 variant, consistent with autosomal dominant inheritance with variable expressivity. Most of the observed variants were de novo, with some being novel. Functional genomic analysis supported the craniofacial relevance of the implicated genes.While some cases can be attributed to single-gene syndromes (e.g., NIPBL-associated Cornelia de Lange Syndrome), others may result from multiple co-occurring syndromes. These findings may inform recurrence risk estimates, genetic counselling, and clinical management if validated across multiple populations.© 2026. The Author(s).
Olfactory dysfunction is a debilitating condition with no established treatment. This study evaluated the efficacy of intranasal (i.n.) NAD administration in restoring olfactory function. Cultured human olfactory stem cells (hOSCs) were treated with NAD and assessed by immunofluorescence staining, PCR, and western blot analyses. In vivo, mice with ZnSO4-induced anosmia were treated with i.n. NAD, intraperitoneal dexamethasone, or PBS and evaluated by histological analysis, behavioral tests, bulk RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq), and in situ hybridization. NAD promoted hOSC differentiation into olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs), evidenced by increased stem cell (SOX2 and nestin) and OSN markers (Tuj1 and OMP) expression, and upregulated neuronal differentiation-related genes (SOX2, NESTIN, NEUROD1, NEUROG1, and OMP). In vivo, the NAD group showed significant olfactory function improvement and marked olfactory epithelium repair. Bulk RNA-seq of the olfactory turbinate tissue identified 113 differentially expressed genes (cluster T1) upregulated in control and NAD groups. The Gene Ontology (GO) term "modulation of chemical synaptic transmission" was associated with cluster T1, and 25 genes implicated in this GO were upregulated in the NAD group. Integration with publicly available single-cell RNA-seq data identified six neuronal marker genes - ABHD2, DLGAP2, FOXO3, HIPK2, KCNMA1, and PCDH17 - upregulated by NAD. Protein expression of DLGAP2 and PCDH17 was higher in differentiated hOSCs treated with NAD. In situ hybridization confirmed that Dlgap2, Foxo3, and Pcdh17 expression was restored in anosmic mice treated with i.n. NAD. The potential therapeutic efficacy of i.n. NAD administration was demonstrated by showing regeneration of OSNs in hOSCs and restoring olfactory function in an anosmia mouse model.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42379854
Cornelia de Lange syndrome (CdLS) is a rare genetic disorder with a wide variation of presentations affecting several organ systems. Most patients with CdLS have a mutation of the NIPBL (Nipped-B-like protein) gene responsible for making delangin, a protein important in human development. Patients with CdLS typically present with intellectual disability, growth delay, cleft palate, and extremely limited mouth opening. These findings can complicate induction of general anesthesia, airway management, and intubation. Treatment of CdLS is based on clinical presentation and includes pharmacologic, therapeutic, and surgical intervention. Cleft palate repair is common in these patients which may impact the anesthetic plan. Additionally, the anesthesiologist should be aware of associated cardiovascular anomalies, ranging from innocent murmurs to persistent structural defects and leading to increased morbidity and mortality in these patients. This case report discusses CdLS and its implications on the general anesthetic management of a 37-year-old woman undergoing treatment for dental caries in an ambulatory care setting. Although CdLS is a rare genetic disorder, anesthesiologists treating such patients with special needs should be familiar with its presentation and anesthetic considerations.
This is the case of a 10-year-old female with HRAS-related epidermal nevus syndrome with extensive and severe cutaneous involvement treated with oral sirolimus. The patient had progressively enlarging verrucous periorbital plaques involving the eyelids, resulting in lagophthalmos and threatening vision. Oral sirolimus rapidly improved the cutaneous lesions and resolved the lagophthalmos. This case of a patient treated with oral sirolimus for HRAS-related epidermal nevus syndrome suggests that therapies targeting the mTOR pathway may indirectly affect the RAS/MAPK pathway.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Why does the same oncogenic mutation drive tumor formation in some tissues but not in others? While cancer driver mutations are well documented, their tissue-specific effects remain largely attributed to genetic factors, leaving the biophysical aspects underexplored. Here, we demonstrate that mechanical interactions between newly transformed and wild-type cells are critical in determining survival and growth of HRasV12 mutants in human mammary and bronchial epithelia, producing contrasting outcomes in the two tissues. In mammary epithelium, isolated mutants are extruded - typical of epithelial defense against cancer - while mutant groups become spatially confined in kinetically arrested, jammed clusters, marked by an actomyosin belt at the interface. In contrast, bronchial epithelium permits persistent spreading of the mutants, which form long protrusions regardless of colony size. Furthermore, oncogenic clusters in the two tissues exhibit distinct biophysical properties, including variations in cell shapes, intracellular pressure, cell-cell tension, and cellular motility. Using a cell shape-tension coupled bi-disperse vertex model, we reveal that interfacial tension at mutant-wild-type boundaries dictates whether mutants are eliminated, restrained, or expanded. Additionally, modulating the heterotypic interfacial tension alters mutant cluster fates. Together, our findings uncover a mechanical basis for tissue-specific oncogenesis by highlighting how interfacial mechanics between mutants and wild-type populations regulate tumor initiation and progression.© 2025, Datta et al.
The BRAF V600E mutation is a common driver variant in differentiated thyroid carcinoma (DTC); however, the clinical significance of its co-mutation patterns in the Chinese population remains unclear. This study aimed to analyze the predictive value of BRAF V600E co-mutations for aggressive clinicopathological features in DTC by detecting a 10-gene panel, providing molecular evidence for refined risk stratification.A multicenter cohort of 240 DTC patients from two medical centers was retrospectively enrolled. A 10-gene panel (BRAF V600E, TERT, NRAS, HRAS, KRAS, PIK3CA, RET, PPARG, NTRK1, NTRK3) was assessed using Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) for mutations and fusion events. Based on mutation status, patients were categorized into three groups: BRAF V600E-mutation alone, BRAF V600E co-mutation, and non-BRAF V600E mutation groups. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was performed to evaluate P53 and Ki-67 expression. Clinicopathological characteristics were compared using chi-square, Fisher's exact, or Kruskal-Wallis tests as appropriate. Log-rank test assessed differences in recurrence-free survival (RFS), while binary/ordinal logistic regression analyzed the predictive role of BRAF V600E co-mutations for aggressiveness (capsular invasion, ATA risk stratification, lymph node metastasis, and recurrence).The BRAF V600E co-mutation group (n = 21) exhibited significantly higher rates of capsular invasion (52.4 %vs. 13.2 % and 23.1 %, *p*<0.01) and ATA high-risk classification (57.1 %vs. 25.7 % and 28.8 %, *p*<0.05) compared to the BRAFV600E -mutation alone group (n = 167) and non-BRAFV600E mutation group (n = 52). Tumor stage distribution (AJCC 8th edition) also differed significantly among the three groups, with the co-mutation group showing the highest proportion of advanced T stage (T3-T4) (*p*<0.05). TERT was the most frequently co-mutated gene. Logistic regression revealed that the BRAFV600E co-mutation group had significantly increased risks of capsular invasion (OR = 3.667, 95 % CI: 1.325-10.713) and ATA high-risk status (OR=2.881, 95 % CI: 1.217-6.839). Although P53/Ki-67 expression did not differ significantly among groups (*p* > 0.05), the co-mutation group showed a trend toward higher proportions of cases with Ki-67 ≥ 10 % (9.5 %vs. 7.2 % and 5.7 %, *p*=0.09).These results suggest that BRAFV600E co-mutations are associated with more aggressive DTC features in a Chinese patient cohort. The 10-gene panel used in this analysis may offer potential as a tool for identifying subsets of patients with adverse pathology, such that it warrants further investigation as a tool for refined risk stratification. However, prospective studies are needed to confirm its clinical utility and clarify its potential for optimized patient management..Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Sotorasib and adagrasib, which are KRAS G12C inhibitors, have shown favorable clinical results mainly in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and have already been introduced into clinical practice. However, for patients with non-G12C mutations that account for the majority, such as G12D, G12V, and G13D, effective targeted therapies have still not been established. Setidegrasib (ASP3082) is a first-in-class proteolysis-targeting chimera molecule (PROTAC) that targets the KRAS G12D mutation. Phase Ⅰ trial targeting previously treated patients with advanced solid tumors harboring KRAS G12D mutations has been initiated, and the latest results were reported in the N Engl J Med in March 2026. Daraxonrasib (RMC-6236) is a pan-RAS inhibitor that targets all ON-state RAS (KRAS, NRAS, HRAS) by forming a specific pocket spanning the Switch Ⅰand Switch Ⅱ regions of KRAS through a mechanism called tri-complex/molecular glue. Currently, multiple international collaborative phase Ⅲ trials on RMC-6236, mainly focusing on PDAC and NSCLC, are underway. The development of new drugs targeting molecules other than KRAS G12C is progressing rapidly, and in KRAS mutation-positive solid cancers where prognosis was difficult to improve with conventional chemotherapy, there is a high possibility that the existing standard treatments will be significantly revised.
Inverted follicular keratosis (IFK) is an uncommon benign skin epithelial neoplasm that microscopically consists of a superficial, sharply circumscribed tumor composed of bland keratinocytes associated with squamous eddies. Only a few examples of combined tumors associating IFK and either trichoblastoma or a sebaceous component have been reported in the literature. Herein, we report the clinicopathological and molecular characterization of 12 cases of combined tumor comprising IFK associated with an adnexal neoplasm, including trichoblastoma (n = 7), sebaceoma (n = 4), and tubular adenoma (n = 1). The age at presentation ranged from 26 to 79 years, with a mean of 55 years. The majority of the tumors were located on the head (n = 8) with a median size of 6 mm (Range: 3-14 mm). Microscopically, all cases showed a biphasic appearance with a prominent IFK component superficially, associated either with trichoblastoma, sebaceoma or tubular adenoma at the deeper aspect, with an abrupt transition between the two tumor components. There was no evidence of nevus sebaceus in the surrounding tissue. Molecular investigation revealed pathogenic HRAS or KRAS mutations in 3 of the 4 cases harboring a sebaceous component and also in the specimen with combined IFK and tubular adenoma. No mutations were detected in any of the 5 tested IFK-TB cases. To conclude, our series expands the spectrum of combined tumors associated with IFK. Genetic characterization suggests that pathogenic mutations of RAS might drive a subset of these cases, particularly when associated with sebaceoma, even in the absence of pre-existing nevus sebaceus.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
The A2 β-casein variant has gained considerable interest in the dairy industry due to proposed health related benefits, leading to an increasing frequency of the A2A2 genotype in dairy herds. Although the A1/A2 substitution in the β-casein gene (CSN2) does not directly affect gene regulation, previous transcriptomic studies have reported differences in mRNA isoform expression between A1A1 and A2A2 cows. Therefore, the objective of this study was to identify single nucleotide variants (SNVs) in A1A1 and A2A2 β-casein groups of cows using milk fat globule (MFG) RNA-seq data and to evaluate their predicted functional consequences. RNA sequencing was performed on MFG samples obtained from 14 lactating Holstein cows (A1A1, n = 7; A2A2, n = 7). Variants were classified according to their predicted effects as amino acid changing (AAC) variants, splice site effect (SSE) variants, or variants presenting both consequences. Additionally, variant data were integrated with previously reported mRNA isoform expression results, and only variants located in genes showing expression levels ≥ 0.2 FPKM were retained for further analysis. Candidate RNA-seq-derived variants differing between A1A1 and A2A2 β-casein genotype groups were identified in genes involved in mammary gland function and lactation, including mitochondrial function, lipid metabolism, vesicle trafficking and secretion, and RNA processing. Among the prioritised genes, A1A1 cows showed a greater representation of SNVs located in genes involved in mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (NDUFV2, NDUFAB1, COX7A2 and ATP5PF), while additional SNVs were identified in lipid metabolism-related genes (ACSL1, ATP10A and MFGE8). In contrast, A2A2 cows showed a greater representation of SNVs located in genes involved in lipid metabolism (LPIN1, FASN, SPTLC2 and ATP11B) and vesicle trafficking and secretion (SEC31A, LRRK2, DBNL, EIPR1 and ABCG2). Overall, these findings provide additional insight into the molecular differences detected between A1A1 and A2A2 groups of cows. Although the predicted functional consequences of the identified variants are currently based on in silico analyses, the novel SNVs reported here constitute a valuable resource for future studies investigating the biological consequences associated with selection for the A2A2 β-casein genotype in Holstein dairy cattle.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society of Animal Science.
To describe the genotypic and phenotypic profile of chromatin remodeling complex (CRC)-related neurological disorders.We retrospectively analyzed the clinical characteristics and the genetic spectrum of children with variants in CRC genes.Fifty patients were included. The genotype spectrum involved genes encoding the CHD complex (CHD2, CHD3, CHD4, CHD7, CHD8), the BAF complex (SMARCA2, ARID1B, ARID2, ACTB), and the ISWI complex (BPTF). The predominant phenotypes were global developmental delay/intellectual disability (GDD/ID) (76.0%, 38/50) and epilepsy (64.0%, 32/50). Seventy-five percent of patients with epilepsy had generalized seizures. Sixty-nine percent (20/29) were seizure-free for more than 1 year at the last follow-up (three were lost to follow-up), although 56.3% (18/32) of patients required three or more kinds of antiseizure medications. EEG abnormalities were prevalent (82.2%, 37/45), commonly showing generalized or diffuse interictal discharges (63.6%), slow background activity (59.5%), and slow waves (35.1%). BAF complex variants were significantly associated with GDD/ID, microcephaly, facial dysmorphism, short stature, and slow background activity on EEG, while CHD complex variants were more likely to cause heat-sensitive seizures (FDR < 0.05).CRC-related disorders are primarily caused by variants in the CHD and BAF complexes, with CHD2, ARID1B, and SMARCA2 being the frequently involved genes. The conditions are characterized by GDD/ID and epilepsy, with distinct clinical patterns between the CHD and BAF complexes.© 2026 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Kisspeptin signaling is recognized as a metastasis-suppressive pathway, but its role in oncogenic HRAS-driven tumor progression remains incompletely understood. This study investigated whether kisspeptin signaling suppresses HRASG12V-induced tumorigenic and metastatic phenotypes in NIH3T3 cells and examined the involvement of SP1-dependent transcription of N-cadherin.NIH3T3 cells expressing HRASG12V, KISS1, and KISS1R were analyzed for proliferation, migration, invasion, luciferase reporter activity, anchorage-independent growth, and in vivo tumor growth and pulmonary metastasis. N-cadherin expression was examined by RT-PCR and immunoblotting. N-cadherin promoter regulation was analyzed using luciferase reporter and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays.Kisspeptin signaling reduced NIH3T3 cell proliferation, migration, and invasion and activated SRF reporter activity through the KISS1R-Gaq/11-p63RhoGEF-RhoA pathway. In HRASG12V-expressing NIH3T3 cells, KISS1 reduced N-cadherin expression and suppressed anchorage-independent colony formation. HRASG12V increased N-cadherin promoter activity, whereas KISS1 reduced both basal and HRASG12V-induced promoter activation. Deletion of the SP1-responsive region abolished these effects, and chromatin immunoprecipitation showed reduced SP1 binding to the N-cadherin promoter. In vivo, KISS1 suppressed HRASG12V-induced tumor growth and pulmonary metastasis, and N-cadherin expression reversed these effects.Kisspeptin signaling suppresses HRASG12V-induced tumor growth and metastasis in NIH3T3 cells by inhibiting SP1-dependent transcription of N-cadherin.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42512373 is a review article
The unfolded protein response (UPR) preserves endoplasmic reticulum proteostasis through coordinated signaling pathways, including the IRE1α-XBP1 axis, which promotes adaptive transcriptional programs via noncanonical XBP1 mRNA splicing. However, upstream mechanisms regulating this pathway remain incompletely defined. Here, we apply CRASP-seq, a scalable RNA-coupled CRISPR screening platform, to systematically identify regulators of XBP1 splicing. We uncovered the U2 snRNP auxiliary factor RBM39 as a critical positive regulator of this process. Perturbation of RBM39 or U2 snRNP components induces alternative splicing of ERN1, leading to exon-18 skipping and the production of an unstable transcript subject to nonsense-mediated decay, as well as a truncated IRE1α isoform that acts in a dominant-negative manner to suppress XBP1 splicing. Mechanistically, we show that heat shock reduces RBM39 functional activity and promotes ERN1 exon-18 skipping, thereby attenuating IRE1α-XBP1 signaling. Functionally, hyperactivation of this pathway is detrimental under proteotoxic stress, suggesting that exon-18 skipping serves as a stress-adaptive mechanism to limit UPR output. Together, our findings reveal a previously unrecognized regulatory axis linking the canonical splicing machinery to UPR signaling and establish alternative splicing of ERN1 as a key modulator of cellular stress responses.Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.
Perceived control is a construct relevant to emotional and clinical outcomes among individuals with chronic illnesses. We previously demonstrated the reliability and validity of the Control Attitudes Scale-Revised (CAS-R), and it has been used extensively in research to measure perceived control. Yet, there is a gap in interpretation of CAS-R scores. A standardized cut point has not yet been established to facilitate classification of patients into distinct high- and low-perceived control categories. Identifying this cut-off point will be of significant value to clinicians and researchers.To identify an evidence-based cut point for the CAS-R to define lower and higher levels of perceived control among patients with a variety of cardiac diagnoses.In this psychometric secondary analysis, we used data from patients with heart failure or coronary heart disease, which included 4,555 patients from three countries. Data were collected on perceived control, depression and/or anxiety, and/or cardiac events (cardiac hospitalization and cardiac death). We used receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves and area under the ROC area under the curve (AUC) to test the accuracy of using the CAS-R scores to separate the patients into anxious or non-anxious groups and depressed or non-depressed groups. Kaplan-Meier plots with log-rank tests and Cox-survival analyses were used to compare cardiac event-free survival outcomes between higher and lower perceived control groups.Two possible cut points were identified using ROC curves and AUC. Cut points were identified using anxiety or depression as the state variable and CAS-R scores as the test variable. Using Kaplan-Meier analyses and log-rank tests, we determined that 29 was the cut point that demonstrated patients in the higher CAS-R group had significantly better cardiac event-free survival than those in the lower CAS-R group. Using the cut point of 30, the differences in cardiac event-free survival between groups did not reach a significant level.Identifying a CAS-R cut point enhances the practical application of the CAS-R and makes it a valuable instrument for assessing the effect of targeted interventions among cardiac patients with lower perceived control.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563691 is a review article
Influenza A virus (IAV) remains a major global health threat due to its high mutation rate and the emergence of antiviral resistance. Targeting host factors provides an alternative therapeutic strategy to overcome these challenges. Previous studies have shown that the L-type calcium channel Cav1.2 was implicated in viral infections. In this study, we aimed to clarify the mechanism by which Cav1.2 acts as a critical host factor mediating IAV infection, using the dihydropyridine-type calcium channel blocker nisoldipine. Nisoldipine showed notable antiviral activity in both in vitro and in vivo models. Mechanistically, nisoldipine inhibited IAV internalization by targeting Cav1.2, thereby suppressing calcium-dependent activation of the Ras-PI3K-AKT, RhoA-ROCK, and JNK pathways associated with viral internalization. Moreover, nisoldipine modulated the unfolded protein response (UPR) in host cells by promoting adaptive XBP1 splicing and contributed to the maintenance of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) homeostasis during IAV infection. Collectively, these observations support a sequential cascade model: Cav1.2 inhibition restrains viral entry and indirectly mitigates virus-triggered ER stress. Furthermore, nisoldipine exhibits broad-spectrum in vitro antiviral activity against multiple enveloped RNA and DNA viruses, including human coronavirus OC43 (HCoV-OC43), respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), Zika virus (ZIKV), Dengue virus Type 2 (DENV2), and Herpes Simplex Virus Type 1/2 (HSV-1/2). This study clarifies the mechanistic involvement of Cav1.2 in IAV infection and further identifies it as a promising broad-spectrum antiviral target with potential applications in preventing and treating influenza, human coronavirus infections, and other emerging viral diseases.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR) plays an important role in calcium homeostasis and multiple physiological regulatory processes, and its Venus flytrap (VFT) domain is a key region for γ-glutamyl peptide binding. In this study, molecular docking, surface plasmon resonance (SPR), and molecular dynamics simulations were integrated to systematically investigate the binding behavior of 400 γ-glutamyl tripeptides with CaSR-VFT. The results showed that all 400 γ-glutamyl tripeptides could be accommodated in the central binding pocket of CaSR-VFT, with binding energies mainly ranging from -6 to -10 kcal mol-1. Interaction site analysis indicated that Ser272, Asn102, Arg66, Ser147, Asn64, and Ser170 were the major high-frequency interacting residues, among which Ser272 showed the highest occurrence frequency. The peptides with the strongest and weakest predicted binding abilities, γEYW and γECF, exhibited docking binding energies of -9.863 and -6.05 kcal mol-1, respectively. After Ser272Ala mutation, the absolute binding energies of γEYW and γECF decreased by 44.02% and 15.50%, respectively. SPR experiments confirmed that both γEYW and γECF could directly bind to purified CaSR-VFT protein, with KD values of 3.3 μM and 329.4 nM, respectively. Molecular dynamics simulations showed that γECF exhibited a more stable hydrogen-bond network and a more concentrated low-free-energy conformational distribution. Overall, this study screened and validated two novel γ-glutamyl tripeptides capable of binding to CaSR-VFT, providing a reference for the screening of CaSR-targeting peptides and the investigation of their binding mechanisms.This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Therapeutic protein overexpression can overwhelm endoplasmic reticulum (ER) folding capacity, trigger unfolded protein response (UPR) signaling, and compromise the safety of gene and mRNA therapies. Here, we engineer stress-responsive RNA rheostats that couple transgene expression to endogenous ER stress sensing. Short RNA elements derived from X-box-binding protein 1 (XBP1) mRNA undergo inositol-requiring enzyme 1α (IRE1α)-dependent splicing under ER stress, inducing a frameshift that attenuates downstream protein expression. XBP1 switches function across DNA and mRNA delivery platforms and regulate the expression of fluorescent reporters, coagulation factor VIII, and Leronlimab, a therapeutic anti-CCR5 monoclonal antibody. Switch activation reduces ER stress markers while preserving expression under homeostatic conditions. We further demonstrate the regulation of Leronlimab expression in vivo using recombinant adeno-associated virus vectors. Together, these findings establish programmable RNA feedback control as a strategy for linking cellular proteostasis to therapeutic protein expression and improving the safety of gene and mRNA therapies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Quasi-solid-state batteries (QSSBs) employing high-voltage cathodes promise high energy density and safety, yet suffer from unstable cathode/electrolyte interfaces and cathode degradation. Here, we propose a competitive adsorption and structural reinforcement synergy (CASR) strategy to address these challenges. Specifically, a Cu-centered self-adsorption molecule is incorporate into the polymer electrolyte, which preferentially adsorbs at the cathode/electrolyte interface through competitive adsorption against solvent molecules, thereby reducing the solvent content on the cathode surface while promoting anion enrichment. This process induces the formation of a uniform F-rich cathode/electrolyte interphase with a LiF-rich outer layer and an inner layer containing Cu─F bonds, thereby effectively suppressing cathode degradation. Cathode structural stability is further reinforced through dynamic Cu doping into TM-deficient lattice sites during cycling. Under low-loading coin-cell conditions (2.0 mg cm-2), the resulting Li||LiNi0.8Co0.1Mn0.1O2 QSSBs retain 80% of their initial capacity after 400 cycles at 4.6 V, and achieve 80% capacity retention over 1000 cycles under 10C and 4.5 V. A 1 Ah-level pouch-cell tested under 4.3 V and 1C charge/0.5C discharge conditions supports the potential of the CASR strategy. This work provides a promising pathway for synchronously stabilizing cathode/electrolyte interface and cathode structure in high-voltage QSSBs.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Mature plasmacytoid dendritic cell proliferation associated with acute myeloid leukemia (pDC-AML) is a distinct entity with poor prognosis. Yet, the mechanisms underlying the immune evasion and aberrant pDC expansion remain poorly understood. We performed multi-omic profiling of 18 pDC-AML cases, along with 207 non-pDC-AML and 16 BPDCN cases as controls. Single-cell RNA-seq and proteomic analyses demonstrated that pDC-AML leukemia stem cells exhibited unfolded protein response activation, particularly the IRE1α-XBP1 axis, which preceded the acquisition of the pDC maturation program. Supporting this, pharmacological induction of endoplasmic reticulum stress in myeloid cells upregulated BCL11A, the master transcription factor in pDC differentiation, and induced a pDC immunophenotype (CD123+BDCA2+). Importantly, pDC-AML-derived pDCs exhibited functional impairment, including compromised antigen-presenting pathways and reduced interactions between pDCs and CD8+ T cells. scTCR-seq analysis revealed significantly restricted T-cell clonal expansion in the pDC-AML bone marrow microenvironment, which correlated with leukemic burden and reversed upon clinical remission. Notably, allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) significantly improved overall and progression-free survival, abrogating the prognostic disadvantage relative to non-pDC-AML. Collectively, these findings establish impaired anti-leukemia immunity as a hallmark of pDC-AML, support early HSCT as a clinical priority, and identify ER-stressed pDCs as a potential novel therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42546855 is a review article
This study aimed to investigate the effects of stevia extract (SE) on growth performance and meat quality of broilers and reveal possibly mechanisms. Four hundred Arbor Acres male broilers (1 d old, 40 ± 1 g) were randomly assigned to 5 treatments with 8 replicates of 10 broilers per replicate. Broilers in the control (CON) group were fed the basal diet, while broilers in the other 4 treatment groups were fed the basal diet supplemented with 50, 100, 150, and 200 mg/kg SE, respectively. Dietary supplementation with SE effectively improved breast meat quality and tended to increase average daily gain (ADG) in broilers. Compared with the CON group, 150 mg/kg SE reduced 48 h drip loss and peak shear force of breast muscle (P < 0.05). Both 150 and 200 mg/kg SE decreased total cholesterol (TC) and triglyceride (TG) contents, while 100 and 150 mg/kg SE reduced malondialdehyde (MDA) concentration in breast muscle (P < 0.05). SE altered fatty acid (FA) composition: 150 mg/kg SE decreased the proportion of C24:0, and 200 mg/kg SE decreased C22:6n3 (P < 0.05). Linear regression analysis identified 150 mg/kg as the optimal SE level for meat quality improvement, which also downregulated FASN and ACACA mRNA expression (P < 0.05). Untargeted metabolomics revealed that 150 mg/kg SE modulated glycerophospholipid metabolism. Further validation confirmed that 150 mg/kg SE increased phospholipid (PL) content in breast muscle and improved endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and mitochondrial (MT) homeostasis. These changes were accompanied by reduced mRNA and protein expression of ER stress biomarkers (GRP78, PERK, IRE1, XBP1) and the MT chaperone HSP60 (P < 0.05). In conclusion, SE improves broiler breast meat quality via regulating the glycerophospholipid metabolism and enhancing endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondrial homeostasis. Regression analysis in this study indicates that the optimal SE supplementation amount for broilers is 150 mg/kg.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDGs) are rare metabolic diseases characterized by clinical heterogeneity, yet the molecular basis for their tissue-specific manifestations remains poorly understood. Because affected tissues are rarely accessible for biopsy, the baseline transcriptional and regulatory landscape of CDG-causative genes in healthy human tissues offers a valuable, complementary perspective on tissue vulnerability. Here, we performed an in silico study of the expression, allelic regulation, expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs), and associations with immune cell compositions of 12 CDG-causative genes across healthy human tissues using multi-omics datasets from the Adult GTEx project. The selected panel includes the most prevalent multisystem CDGs (PMM2-, ALG6-, ALG1-, SLC35A2-, ALG13-, SRD5A3-, MAN1B1-, DPAGT1-CDG), three immune-relevant CDGs classified as inborn errors of immunity (MOGS-, PGM3-, VPS13B-CDG), and the autosomal recessive form of GNE-CDG (GNE-CDG (ar); GNE myopathy) as a tissue-restricted contrast. CDG-causative genes were broadly but heterogeneously expressed, with substantial inter-individual variation. Tissues frequently affected in the corresponding disorders did not consistently display the highest baseline gene expression, underscoring that higher gene expression alone is a poor indicator of tissue susceptibility. Allele-specific analyses revealed five distinct allelic expression patterns across individuals and identified tissue-specific deviations from balanced biallelic expression for several genes, most notably SRD5A3, PGM3, VPS13B, and GNE. Tissue-specific eQTLs affecting CDG genes were frequently located in intronic enhancers of unrelated genes or intergenic regions, revealing a complex, predominantly distal regulatory architecture. Several eQTLs overlapped GWAS Catalog traits and ClinVar entries relevant to the corresponding CDG phenotypes, including PMM2 eQTLs associated with reduced PMM2 gene levels. Finally, correlations between CDG-causative gene expression and immune cell composition recapitulated known immune phenotypes from blood and suggested additional tissue-dependent roles for glycosylation in immune modulation, that warrant functional validation. Together, these findings demonstrate that CDG-causative genes operate within diverse transcriptional, allelic, and regulatory contexts across human tissues. Our in silico framework provides an interpretable candidates and foundational reference for interpreting tissue vulnerability in CDG and underscore the need for global analyses to fully understand organ-specific disease mechanisms.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc.
End-stage chronic liver disease in children is associated with sarcopenia and aberrant adipose tissue mass. We investigated correlations between liver pathology-associated gene pathways (fibrosis, inflammation and steatosis) and metabolic genes in muscle and adipose tissue.Liver, rectus abdominis muscle and subcutaneous adipose tissue were collected during liver transplant for microarray gene expression analysis. Patients underwent pre-transplant indirect calorimetry, anthropometry and laboratory assessments. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis identified highly correlated gene modules within each tissue and explored inter-tissue correlations.Nine patients were studied, three male:six female, age 7 months to 17 years. Liver gene clusters associated with fibrosis and ribosome function/protein secretion negatively correlated with muscle mitochondrial function genes and positively correlated with adipose tissue mitochondrial function genes. Notable correlations included a negative correlation between muscle growth hormone receptor (GHR) and liver ARID5B, MFGE8 and YWHAZ, and a positive correlation between adipose AKT1, ADG5, and SRM and liver RRAGA, YES1, EIF3M and COX3A. Liver inflammation-associated genes (vimentin, TIMP2, CXCL6 and endothelin-1) negatively correlated with adipose genes improving insulin sensitivity (THRSP) and fibrosis-related genes (KRT36, DMTN). Liver steatosis genes (ADRA2B) negatively correlated with adipose genes involved in adipogenesis (FGF10) and thyroid hormone metabolism (NHLH1).Genes related to liver fibrosis and protein secretion negatively correlated with muscle and adipose tissue metabolism/proliferation genes. Liver inflammation and steatosis gene clusters were associated with muscle and adipose metabolism genes. This pilot study highlights important inter-tissue gene correlations warranting further investigation in paediatric end-stage chronic liver disease.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of European Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition and North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition.
Recent studies suggest that copy number variants (CNVs) may contribute to the missing heritability of complex diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related dementias (ADRD). We performed a CNV analysis using genotyping data (Axiom 815 K Spanish biobank array) from the GR@ACE/DEGESCO dementia dataset (n = 20,067) of the Spanish population. Applying PennCNV and extensive quality control, 8275 controls and 7818 dementia cases were selected for gene-level case/control associations. We identified 43,833 CNVs with deletions (47%) and duplications (53%). No genome-wide significant associations were found, but nominal associations were observed in PKP3-SIGIRR and FBRSL1 loci. CNVs in 2970 genes were exclusive to dementia cases and enriched in vascular-related pathways. Notable findings included 14q11.2 duplication and VPS13B deletions in ADRD cases, the latter confirmed by optical genome mapping. Our findings suggest potential novel genes associated with ADRD in the Spanish population. However, the limited resolution of array-based technologies in detecting CNVs warrants further investigation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Reproduction traits constitute the primary objective of porcine genetic improvement programs, with litter size being the principal determinant of herd reproduction output. Relative to the intensively selected Large White line, as a breed derived from Large White (LW) and Beijing Black (BJB) pigs, Jishen Black (JSB) pigs exhibit markedly lower litter size, indicating substantial potential for genetic improvement.Whole-genome resequencing data were obtained from 110 individuals of six pig populations differed in litter size: a Large White line with high litter size (> 16, LWH), cryopreserved Large White samples from 1977 (LW1977), dam-selected (LWD) and sire-selected (LWS) lines derived from LW1977, Berkshire (BKS), and Jishen Black pigs (JSB). Principal component analysis (PCA) captured clear population genetic structure along PC2, with the observed distribution pattern descriptively coinciding with litter size variation across populations, though such an association was not statistically verified. A composite selection-signature scan that integrated Fst, π-ratio, and XP-EHH was performed between multiple population groups. Candidate signals were filtered by excluding those also detected in a control comparison (Jishen Black vs. Berkshire) that showed minimal litter‑size difference, to screen selection signatures with potential relevance to reproductive trait differentiation at the population level. Twelve genes were identified as putative candidate genes for litter size, including PEX14, CDK15, KCNQ1, SPAG17, TTF2, CD101, CASQ2, VANGL1, ARID5B, KLHL32, EML1, and NAV1. Functional enrichment analysis indicated that these genes significantly over-represented in microtubule-related biological processes. Among them, KCNQ1 was consistently detected by all methods and comparison groups. Further analysis of KCNQ1 revealed multiple SNPs with significant allele-frequency differentiation among populations; notably, two intronic variants (chr2:A1,861,604G and chr2:A1,867,076G) showed population-specific allele frequency patterns that descriptively aligned with the stratification of litter size performance.By comprehensively dissecting population genomic differentiation among multi-breed populations divergent in litter-size performance, this study implemented established a feasible framework for screening candidate loci associated with porcine prolificacy at the population level, expanded the gene list with suggestive selection signatures, and provided potential molecular markers requiring further independent cohort validation and functional verification to support future genetic improvement in swine reproduction efficiency.© 2026. The Author(s).
Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) can cause immune-related adverse events (irAEs), with hypophysitis being a serious endocrine toxicity that often requires hormone replacement and poses a risk of adrenal crisis. Biomarkers for predicting ICI-induced hypophysitis are lacking.This retrospective, single-center cohort study used the Research Patient Data Registry (RPDR) to identify adults with breast cancer, lung cancer, renal cell carcinoma, or melanoma who received PD-1 inhibitor monotherapy (pembrolizumab or nivolumab) between January 1, 2000, and May 29, 2024. The final cohort included 82 patients with available tumor genomic profiling data, including 26 who developed hypophysitis and 56 matched PD-1 inhibitor-treated controls who did not develop hypophysitis. Tumor mutational burden (TMB) and tumor gene mutation profiles were compared between groups.Genomic analysis showed that the hypophysitis group had a higher overall tumor mutational burden (6.02 vs. 5.19 mut/Mb, P = 0.002). Furthermore, we identified significantly high rate of mutations in the genes BABAM1 (18.2% vs. 0%, P = 0.014), KDM5C (18.2% vs. 0%, P = 0.014), CDH4 (19.2% vs. 1.8%, P = 0.018), and TAL1 (19.2% vs. 1.8%, P = 0.018) in the hypophysitis group. In contrast, PAXIP1 mutations were more common in the non-hypophysitis group (19.6% vs. 0%, P = 0.037), suggesting a potential protective role.This exploratory study identifies a tumor genomic profile associated with PD-1 inhibitor-related hypophysitis. Higher TMB and enrichment of selected tumor mutations may reflect a tumor immunogenicity state that predisposes to pituitary autoimmunity under PD-1 blockade. These findings provide a hypothesis-generating genomic framework for future studies of endocrine irAE risk stratification.Copyright © 2026 Zheng, Chen, Lin and Min.
Graves' disease (GD) is an autoimmune form of hyperthyroidism. We integrated GD GWAS summary statistics with immune-cell eQTLs to prioritize cell-type-specific genes with potential relevance to GD susceptibility.We analyzed European-ancestry GD GWAS summary statistics from FinnGen Release 12 together with cis-eQTLs from 14 peripheral immune-cell subsets in the OneK1K single-cell resource (982 donors). We prioritized associations using SMR and HEIDI filtering, and Bayesian colocalization (COLOC) analysis was then performed to assess whether eQTL and GD association signals were likely to share a causal variant. Differential expression analysis using GSE71956 was used as additional transcriptomic support.After harmonization, 5,048 instrument-gene pairs were retained. MR identified 173 nonredundant genes (FDR < 0.05); SMR plus HEIDI retained 159 genes across the 14 immune subsets. COLOC highlighted 33 high-confidence colocalized signals (PPH4 > 0.90), including ARID5B in CD4+ naïve/central memory T cells, PRSS16 in CD4+ effector-memory T cells, HIST1H2BI in CD8+ effector-memory T cells, and FCRL3 in NK cells. In GSE71956, several prioritized genes showed differential expression, and ARID5B was expressed at lower levels in GD samples than in controls.Concordant evidence across methods supports these signals, but residual pleiotropy and the European-only design remain important caveats. Differences from prior reports may reflect cell-type context and disease stage.Immune subset-resolved eQTL-GWAS integration points to specific genes and pathways that may contribute to GD susceptibility and helps narrow candidates for follow-up studies.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Multiple genetic association studies linked variants at ARID5B with predisposition to B-cell-derived acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) in children. Still, the molecular function of ARID5B remains largely uncharacterized. Here, we employ a combination of proteomics, genomics, and transcriptomics to describe the molecular mechanisms of ARID5B. We identify that ARID5B interacts with MIER1, C16ORF87, HDAC1, and HDAC2 forming a chromatin repressor complex. By CUT&RUN, we mapped ARID5B binding in active regions of the genome, tethering HDAC1 and HDAC2 to distal regulatory elements and promoters. Genes actively repressed by the ARID5B repressor complex are involved in B-cell proliferation and B-cell-specific signaling. Together, we describe how ARID5B assembles into a repressor complex and regulates B-cell-specific processes. Understanding its molecular mechanism will help elucidating how noncoding germline variants at ARID5B predispose to B-ALL.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Horses bred for different equestrian sports vary in physical, physiological and behavioural requirements. Characterising genetic markers associated with discipline provides an opportunity to improve identification of horses best suited to either jumping or dressage. Using a composite selection signals test, genomic regions under positive selection in German warmblood horses divergent for discipline were identified that contained lead SNPs proximal to or within genes with functions relevant to the requirements for jumping and dressage. Dressage genes function in tortuosity of movement (GRM5) and responsiveness to touch (PROKR2), and have roles in bone development (VWC2, THSD7B, CYP27A1) and growth traits (VPS13B, TMEFF2, NANOS1, ZEB2). Jumping genes function in the modulation of neuropathic pain (LPAR6 and SLITRK1) and encode compounds commonly included in nutritional supplements (CHST15 and TPH2). A polygenic prediction score (PPS) derived from 28 SNPs had an AUC = 0.89, and categorical predictions for dressage and jumping had an overall accuracy of 80%. Among horses with jumping competition records, the jumping genetic profile was highest among elite performers (85.7%) and lowest among inferior performers (69.4%). The PPS could be applied to efficiently and accurately identify young horses most suitable for each discipline before they reach the age for participation in physical performance assessments, and the genetic markers could be applied in genome-enabled breeding strategies to accelerate genetic gain in sport horses. Furthermore, examination of the PPS among Thoroughbred horses indicated that it could be used to inform suitable second careers for racehorses to improve welfare outcomes following retirement from racing.© 2026 ZINTO LABS LIMITED and The Author(s). Animal Genetics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Stichting International Foundation for Animal Genetics.
Facial morphology is a highly heritable human trait, yet its underlying genetic architecture remains largely unresolved despite recent progress from genome-wide association studies (GWAS). Here, we integrated univariate and multivariate analyses of 230 facial phenotypes with GWAS and epigenome-wide association studies to identify genomic and epigenomic markers influencing facial variation in Chinese populations. Univariate analyses identified 144 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and 34 CpG methylation sites, whereas multivariate canonical correlation analyses detected an additional 80 SNPs and 734 CpG sites across four key facial regions (eyebrow-eye complex, nose, mouth, and facial contour), with 50 SNPs overlapping those from the univariate analysis. In total, 174 SNPs and 768 CpG sites were associated with facial morphology, with 70.1% of SNPs and 57.5% of CpG sites linked methylation quantitative trait loci validated in a replication cohort. Functional mapping and annotation of GWAS prioritized 42 lead SNPs near genes such as SOX9, VPS13B, GAB2, and DOCK9, emphasizing their roles in craniofacial development. Notably, CpG sites accounted for more phenotypic variance in facial morphology (mean 8.83%, max 13.68%) than SNPs alone (mean 2.85%, max 6.63%). Integrating both genomic and epigenomic markers further enhanced the explainable variance (mean 9.85%, max 16.57%). This study represents the first comprehensive analysis of both genomic and epigenomic influence on facial morphology in Chinese populations. Our findings demonstrate that CpG methylation, alongside SNPs, contributes substantially to facial variation, explaining an even greater proportion of morphological variance and underscoring the importance of epigenetic regulation in shaping facial morphology.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press and Science Press on behalf of the Beijing Institute of Genomics, Chinese Academy of Sciences / China National Center for Bioinformation and Genetics Society of China.
Autosomal recessive microcephaly encompasses a group of rare neurogenetic disorders in which microcephaly presents at birth or postnatally as part of a syndromic disorder. Autosomal recessive microcephaly is both clinically and genetically heterogeneous, with numerous genes associated. In the present study, we investigated the genetic basis of likely autosomal recessive microcephaly in a cohort of five unrelated consanguineous and non-consanguineous Pakistani families presenting with microcephaly, intellectual disability, and developmental delay.Whole-exome sequencing was performed on one affected individual from each family. Candidate variants identified by WES were subsequently validated by Sanger sequencing, and segregation analysis was performed in all available affected and unaffected family members.We identified five homozygous pathogenic variants, including three novel variants: ASPM (NM_018136.5:c.1669_1670del p.(Ser557Leufs*2)), CDK5RAP2 (NM_018249.6:c.199del p.(Ile67Serfs*4)), and VPS13B (NM_152564.5:c.8230 C > T (p.Gln2744*)). Alongside, two previously reported homozygous variants in ASPM (NM_018136.5:c.9190 C > T p.(Arg3064*) & NM_018136.5:c.3978G > A p.(Trp1326*)). All variants matched a suspected autosomal recessive inheritance pattern, segregated within their respective families, and were absent or very rare in proxy population genetic databases.The results expand the genetic spectrum of autosomal recessive microcephaly within the Pakistani population and highlight the importance of whole exome sequencing in diagnosing rare neurodevelopmental disorders and understanding genetic diversity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Feed efficiency (FE) is recognized as a vital component of sustainable dairy production, with residual feed intake (RFI) serving as a key metabolic indicator of FE independent of production levels. However, the genetic improvement of this complex trait is limited by the inability of conventional genomic Best Linear Unbiased Prediction (gBLUP) model to capture complex, non-linear genetic architectures and epistatic interactions. To address these limitations, this study aims to compare the predictive performance of machine learning (ML) approaches, specifically Random Forest (RF) and Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP) models, against standard gBLUP using genomic data from 220 UK Holstein cows genotyped with the BovineSNP50 v3 BeadChip with 47,446 quality-controlled single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), phenotyped for RFI from 1996-2023. SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) were applied to interpret SNP feature importance from the ML models, and an ensemble framework was implemented to leverage the complementary strengths of RF and MLP.While the gBLUP model exhibited moderate predictive performance, the RF model demonstrated greater stability and accuracy compared to gBLUP, and the MLP showed higher variance across random states. The ensemble framework achieved the highest coefficient of determination (R2 = 0.39) and lowest root mean squared error (RMSE = 0.086). SHAP interpretability analysis revealed distinct genomic architectures between the models. The RF model prioritized genes regulating mitochondrial oxidation and immune surveillance, including SKINT1 and PPARGC1A, whereas the MLP model identified genes involved in lipid metabolism and fat storage, including APCDD1 and ADIPOR1. A convergence of biological signals was observed between the models, with nine common SNPs and 32 consensus genes identified, including ACOD1, CNTNAP2, and core spliceosomal snRNAs.These results suggest that the genetic architecture of RFI may be explored by ML methods as they offer flexibility in mapping non-additive genetic effects. The reliability of genomic predictions for complex traits was enhanced when complementary computational strategies were leveraged in an ensemble framework, providing a focused set of candidate genes for future experimental validation. Whilst exploratory gene networks require validation in larger cohorts, the ensemble ML framework presented here offers an interpretable approach for dissecting the genetic architecture of complex production traits in livestock.© 2026. Crown.
The pathophysiology of acute pancreatitis (AP), a common clinical emergency, is poorly understood. Previous studies have implicated N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification in the pathogenesis of AP; however, the precise molecular mechanisms remain unclear. Whether metabolites participate in this process is also an important, unresolved question. To investigate the possible causal pathways, we integrated multi-omics data. We identified m6A related genes from literature and combined these genes with genetic summary statistics of AP, expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) data, and information on 1400 plasma metabolites from public databases. We constructed a causal inference framework based on these data. The causal relationship between m6A-related genes, metabolites, and AP risk was systematically evaluated using Mendelian randomization and mediating Mendelian randomization methods. To validate the reliability of our results, we performed leave-one-out sensitivity, heterogeneity tests, and horizontal pleiotropy. We found that the fat mass and obesity (FTO) eQTL was significantly negatively correlated with AP risk (odds ratio [OR] = 0.78, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.66-0.93, P < .01). In addition, we found that the FTO eQTL reduced the level of 1,2-dilinoleoyl-glycerophosphocholine (1,2-dilinoleoyl-GPC, 18:2/18:2; OR = 0.89, 95% CI: 0.80-0.99, P < .05) and that a high level of this metabolite increased the risk of AP (OR = 1.22, 95% CI: 1.08-1.39, P < .01). Therefore, we constructed and verified a regulatory axis named "FTO-m6A-1,2-dilinoleoyl-GPC (18:2/18:2) ": Through its role in diminishing m6A modification levels, FTO-mediated demethylation lowers circulating 1,2-dilinoleoyl-GPC (18:2/18:2), which contributes to the suppression of AP. This is the first time that we have discovered the "FTO-m6A-1,2-dilinoleoyl-GPC (18:2/18:2)" regulatory axis in AP. We found that FTO may promotes phospholipid metabolic reprogramming by stimulating an m6A-dependent posttranscriptional mechanism, which further inhibited disease development. These findings provide new insights into the process of AP and new directions for targeted therapy.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Short-chain chlorinated paraffins (SCCPs), ubiquitous persistent organic pollutants, have been increasingly implicated in metabolic disorders; however, their developmental effects on hepatic lipid metabolism in offspring remain poorly understood. This study aimed to investigate whether gestational SCCPs exposure induces hepatic lipid accumulation in adult offspring and elucidate the underlying mechanisms. Pregnant C57BL/6J mice were orally administered SCCPs (0, 1, 10, or 100 mg/kg) from gestational day 0 (GD0) to GD18. At 12 weeks of age, male offspring exposed to the medium dose of SCCPs developed pronounced hepatic steatosis, as evidenced by increased hepatic and serum triglyceride levels and excessive lipid droplet accumulation, whereas female offspring exhibited no significant alterations, indicating a sex-specific and non-monotonic dose-response pattern. Mechanistically, gestational SCCPs exposure markedly upregulated key regulators involved in fatty acid uptake and triglyceride synthesis, including CD36, GPAT4, and DGAT2. In vitro, serum from medium-dose SCCPs-exposed adult male offspring induced lipid accumulation in AML12 hepatocytes, which was significantly attenuated by pharmacological inhibition of CD36. Furthermore, gestational SCCPs exposure was associated with increased PPAR-γ/CD36 pathway in vivo and in vitro, whereas pharmacological inhibition of PPAR-γ suppressed CD36 expression and alleviated lipid accumulation in hepatocytes. Collectively, these findings suggest that gestational SCCPs exposure promotes male-specific hepatic steatosis in adult offspring potentially through PPAR-γ-mediated enhancement of fatty acid uptake and triglyceride synthesis, providing new evidence that early-life SCCPs exposure can developmentally program long-term hepatic metabolic dysfunction.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Emotional eating and alcohol consumption are complex and multifactorial behaviors which are influenced by biological and psychological factors. Genetic predisposition to eating- and alcohol-related behaviors has previously been derived from broad, self-reported phenotypes. However, the association between such genetic predisposition and more refined measures based on validated questionnaires and clinical assessment of pre-diagnostic symptoms remains unclear. We examined whether two broad, nonspecific polygenic risk scores for poor appetite or overeating (PAO-PGS) and alcohol use (AU-PGS) are associated with emotional eating and habitual alcohol consumption. The study included 1,252 adults with overweight or obesity from the ONTIME study. We used two different questionnaires (the Emotional-Eating Questionnaire, EEQ and the Eating-related Behaviors and Emotions questionnaire) and 24h recall for alcohol consumption. Higher PAO-PGS and AU-PGS were associated with greater emotional eating (β =0.41, p=0.025) and greater risky alcohol consumption (OR=1.22, p=0.044), respectively. Further subcomponents of the EEQ such as greater disinhibition and food craving were also associated with higher PAO-PGS. Interestingly, the "eating-related behaviors and emotions score" was associated with genetic predisposition to alcohol use. In addition, minor allele carriers of specific genetic variants (FTO, MC4R, DRD2, and CTNNA2) were associated with specific characteristics of emotional eating and alcohol risk. These results provide novel evidence that polygenic scores for poor appetite or overeating and alcohol use are associated with emotion-driven eating and habitual alcohol consumption. Exploratory results point to CTNNA2 as a new candidate gene for food craving. Integrating genetic profiles into behavioral nutrition research may help identify individuals with higher vulnerability to maladaptive eating and drinking patterns. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: clinicaltrials.gov: NCT02829619.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559138 is a review article
Antibiotic-induced disruption of the gut microbiota is known to influence host metabolism; however, whether its metabolic effects depend on the duration of exposure remains unclear, particularly in relation to adipose thermogenesis under high-fat diet (HFD) conditions.C57BL/6 mice fed an HFD were treated with a broad-spectrum antibiotic cocktail for either short-term (2 weeks) or long-term (10 weeks). Body weight, adiposity, metabolic parameters, and energy expenditure were assessed. Thermogenic capacity was evaluated by histology and gene expression analysis in brown and white adipose tissues, following stimulation with the β3-adrenergic receptor agonist CL316243. Gut microbiota composition was analyzed using 16S rRNA sequencing.Short-term antibiotic treatment attenuated HFD-induced weight gain, reduced fat accumulation, and increased weight-adjusted CL316243-stimulated metabolic rate, accompanied by upregulation of thermogenic genes (Ppargc1a, Pparg, Ucp1). In contrast, long-term treatment exacerbated obesity, decreased metabolic rate and rectal temperature, and suppressed thermogenic gene expression. Microbiota analysis revealed partial recovery of α-diversity after short-term intervention, whereas long-term treatment led to persistent dysbiosis with reduced diversity and altered community structure.The metabolic consequences of antibiotic-induced microbiota disruption are strongly duration-dependent. Transient perturbation is associated with enhanced adipose thermogenesis and energy expenditure, whereas prolonged disruption correlates with impaired thermogenic capacity and worsened metabolic outcomes. However, causal relationships remain to be established. These findings highlight the importance of temporal dynamics in host-microbiota interactions and provide insight into microbiota-targeted strategies for metabolic disorders.Copyright © 2026 Feng, Cui, Bi, Liu, Yang, Ouyang, Xu, Zhao, Xi, Yang, Sun, Wang and Li.
Mild thermal stimulation enhances skeletal muscle differentiation; however, its underlying metabolic basis remains unclear. Here, we demonstrate that thermal stimulation promotes myogenic differentiation through enhanced glucose uptake and transient lipid droplet (LD) accumulation in C2C12 myoblasts. Thermal stimulation at 39 °C induced a transient increase in LD formation during early differentiation. Early transient LD accumulation, particularly on days 1 and 2, was positively correlated with the day 5 fusion index, suggesting that early LD formation is associated with subsequent myogenic differentiation. Suppression of LD formation by Plin2 knockdown impaired myotube formation, indicating that LD formation is functionally required for myogenic differentiation. Thermal stimulation enhanced glucose uptake, accompanied by increased Slc2a4 and Ppargc1a expression and increased GLUT4 fluorescence intensity. Moreover, higher glucose availability further supported LD formation and myogenic differentiation even under serum-free conditions. Notably, mitochondrial mass, ATP content, and oxidative capacity remained largely unchanged, suggesting that enhanced glucose uptake is associated with LD accumulation without a corresponding increase in mitochondrial oxidative capacity. These findings identify transient LD formation as a key metabolic event driving myogenic differentiation under thermal stimulation.© 2026. The Author(s).
One of the key regulatory mechanisms in adipose biology is the NAD+/SIRT axis, which is disrupted in conditions such as obesity and insulin resistance. In recent years, increasing attention has been directed toward understanding the role of NAD+ in adipose biology, including through gene expression analyses. However, most published studies have focused on a limited set of preselected genes, and an integrated analysis of genes associated with NAD+ alterations in adipose tissue is lacking. The aim of this study was to conduct a systematic literature search to identify rodent studies reporting significant modulation of NAD+ levels in adipose tissue, along with significant changes in gene expression within the same adipose depot. The extracted genes were then subjected to integrative functional bioinformatic analyses to identify significantly enriched canonical pathways, protein-protein interactions, master regulators, and associations with human diseases. We identified 17 studies, from which 113 unique NAD+-associated protein coding genes were extracted. Pathway enrichment analysis revealed multiple canonical pathways significantly associated with these genes, including thermogenesis, the PPAR signaling pathway, the AMPK signaling pathway, and adipogenesis. In addition, several cellular pathways were identified for which direct experimental evidence of NAD+ involvement is currently lacking, such as the apelin signaling pathway and the relaxin signaling pathway. Protein-protein interaction analysis revealed three distinct protein clusters related to positive regulation of cold-induced thermogenesis, inflammation, and cellular respiration. Master regulator analysis identified several well-established regulators, such as leptin, PRDM16, PPARGC1A, AMP, glucose, fructose, and rosiglitazone, as well as regulators that have not yet been directly investigated in the context of NAD+ function in adipose biology. Finally, analysis of disease associations of NAD+-associated protein coding genes revealed links to nutritional and cardiometabolic diseases. In conclusion, this study highlights both well-established and previously unexplored canonical pathways and regulators of biological processes associated with the role of NAD+ in adipose biology, thereby identifying potential targets for future experimental investigation. Additionally, our systematic literature search revealed a notable lack of studies employing global transcriptomic approaches, as well as multi-omics studies with coupled bioinformatic analyses, which are essential for obtaining an in-depth and comprehensive understanding of the role of NAD+ in adipose biology.Copyright © 2026 Postolov, Milenkovic and Ruskovska.
Preterm birth (PTB), defined as delivery before 37 weeks, is a major cause of neonatal morbidity and mortality worldwide. Evidence suggests that both epigenetic dysregulation and gut microbial imbalance contribute to the inflammatory and metabolic disturbances associated with PTB; however, few studies have examined these factors in conjunction to identify integrated predictive biomarkers.This study aimed to identify epigenetic and microbial signatures associated with PTB by integrating maternal second-trimester genome-wide DNA methylation profiles with gut microbiome composition.A case-control study was conducted with 120 pregnant women, grouped into two categories: preterm (≤37 weeks, n = 60) and full-term (>37 weeks, n = 60). Maternal blood and fecal samples were collected simultaneously. DNA methylation was profiled using the Illumina MethylationEPIC array, and gut microbiota were characterized through 16S rRNA sequencing. Differentially methylated regions (DMRs) and differentially abundant taxa were identified using FDR < 0.05. Sparse canonical correlation analysis and network modeling were applied to integrate the datasets and identify linked epigenetic-microbial features predictive of PTB.Women with PTB showed distinct methylation changes in immune and inflammation-related genes, including IL6, CXCL10, TNFAIP3, and PPARGC1A. Gut microbiome analysis revealed significantly reduced α-diversity (Shannon index: 2.81 ± 0.31 vs. 3.42 ± 0.36, p = 0.002), enrichment of pro-inflammatory taxa (Prevotella, Sutterella, Veillonella), and depletion of beneficial genera, including Lachnospiraceae, Faecalibacterium, and Bifidobacterium. Integrated analysis showed strong cross-domain associations (r = 0.68, p < 0.001), linking immune-gene hypomethylation with enrichment of inflammatory taxa. The combined biomarker panel achieved high predictive performance (AUC = 0.87; sensitivity = 82%; specificity = 84%), outperforming methylation-only and microbiome-only models. Functional enrichment highlighted convergence on NF-κB signaling, cytokine interactions, and butyrate metabolism.The study shows that coordinated epigenetic alterations and gut microbial dysbiosis contribute to PTB. These biomarkers are detectable during the second trimester (18-24 weeks), supporting their potential for mid-pregnancy risk stratification. The integrated methylation-microbiome signature offers strong potential for early, non-invasive prediction and supports development of targeted maternal interventions.Copyright © 2026 Huang and Cai.
Background: MASLD is a disorder linked to lipid metabolism and obesity, increasingly prevalent among sedentary people and leading to hepatic fibrosis. Cyclodipeptides (CDPs) have promising anti-obesogenic and liver-protective potential. Methods: CDP treatment was evaluated in a chronic MASLD model using female Wistar rats fed an obesogenic diet, with assessments of insulin resistance, glucose tolerance, liver damage, oxidative stress, and the expression of genes related to metabolic function. Results: MASLD CDP-treated rats showed low visceral adipose tissue (VAT) content, improved insulin responsiveness and glucose tolerance, reduced steatosis, and reversed oxidant stress and the NRF2, GPX1, and GCLC expression. Furthermore, MASLD-related dysregulation of genes involved in lipid metabolism was restored, including vLDL transport (MTTP, APOB, and RASAL2), β-oxidation (PPAR-α, ACOX1, and FOXO1), lipogenesis (ACC1 and SREBP 1C), and fatty acid transport (PSD3 and CD36). In accordance, genes of key signaling pathways were also restored, including mTOR, TSC1, and TSC2, along with fibrosis and inflammation TGF-β, Fas, NF-κB, and IL-6. In VAT of MASLD animals, crown-like structures and adiposity density were diminished by CDP treatment, with increased expression of genes associated with beige-like adipose tissue remodeling, including PGC-1α, UCP1, NRF1, ATP6v1, CEBP-α, COX4i1, PPARγ, and CS. Consistently, the UCP1 and PGC-1α protein expression was increased in the VAT of MASLD animals treated with CDPs. Conclusions: The anti-MASLD effects of CDPs were associated with reversal of key pathogenic markers in the liver and VAT, suggesting remodeling of white adipose tissue (WAT) toward a beige-like adipose tissue phenotype. The findings suggest that CDPs may modulate adipose tissue structure and adipogenesis, underscoring their therapeutic relevance for MASLD.
Metabolic syndrome is typically polygenic; however, rare monogenic forms such as DYRK1B-associated abdominal obesity-metabolic syndrome 3 (AOMS 3) exist. We report a case with an AOMS 3-like phenotype and highlight novel features and treatment response.A 21-year-old woman with metabolic syndrome was initially misdiagnosed as polycystic ovarian syndrome. She had abdominal obesity, hyperglycemia, hypertriglyceridemia, and hyperandrogenism. Genetic analysis revealed a heterozygous DYRK1B c.755G>A (p.R252H) variant. She lacked prominent adipogenesis. Due to inadequate control with conventional oral antidiabetic therapy, sodium glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor was initiated, leading to metabolic improvement over 6 months.This case expands the phenotypic spectrum of DYRK1B-associated AOMS 3 by demonstrating hyperandrogenism, severe hypertriglyceridemia, and absence of marked adipogenesis. It also suggests a potential therapeutic role of SGLT2 inhibitors in such patients.DYRK1B variants should be considered in young patients with atypical metabolic syndrome. SGLT2 inhibitors may provide benefit when conventional therapy is inadequate.© 2026 The Authors.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42476887
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42476885
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is increasingly recognized as a systemic disorder, with skeletal muscle dysfunction contributing substantially to frailty and functional decline. Although amyloid-beta (Aβ) has been detected in peripheral tissues, including skeletal muscle, how it drives muscle degeneration and whether exercise can counteract this process remain to be elucidated.This study aimed to define the molecular mechanisms underlying Aβ-induced skeletal muscle degeneration in AD and assess the potential of high-intensity interval training (HIIT) to alleviate muscle dysfunction and related pathology.We employed a small-scale exploratory clinical cohort and the 5 × FAD mouse model, integrating transcriptomic and metabolomic profiling with in vitro and in vivo functional assays to dissect Aβ-induced muscle pathology and the protective mechanisms of HIIT.AD patients in the exploratory cohort showed a trend toward reduced handgrip strength, mirroring the progressive muscle weakness, myofiber atrophy, and intramuscular Aβ accumulation observed in 5 × FAD mice. Mechanistically, Aβ activated RAGE/NF-κB signaling, driving inflammation and oxidative stress in myofibers. HIIT reversed these pathological changes and concomitantly lowered Aβ levels. Transcriptomic profiling identified fibroblast growth factor 10 (FGF10) as a key exercise-induced mediator: FGF10 activated the FGFR2-AKT-ADAM10 axis to promote RAGE ectodomain shedding, generating soluble RAGE that suppressed Aβ-mediated inflammatory and injury signaling.Our findings define an Aβ-RAGE axis driving AD-associated muscle degeneration and reveal an exercise-responsive FGF10-RAGE protective pathway, reframing AD as a brain-muscle axis disorder and highlighting FGF10 as a promising target for systemic therapeutic intervention.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The purpose of this project was to identify novel Usher syndrome (USH) candidate genes from phenotyping data of 9139 knockout (KO) mouse lines.We evaluated phenotype data for concurrent retinopathy and hearing abnormalities in single-gene KO mice generated by the International Mouse Phenotyping Consortium (IMPC). A search was performed to determine whether each gene had been previously associated with retinopathy and/or deafness in humans. Bioinformatic tools were used to predict protein interactions, molecular functions, signaling pathways, and the expression of human orthologues of candidate genes in the retina and inner ear.We identified 18 single-gene KO lines exhibiting hearing abnormality and retinopathy after ear and eye examinations, respectively, and/or by histopathology. The molecular functions and signaling pathways of the human orthologues of the 18 candidate genes partially overlapped with those of USH genes. Particularly, FER and DYRK1B proteins were predicted to interact with proteins encoded by known ciliopathy genes. ADIPOR1, ATP8B1, and MPDZ were associated with retinal degeneration in humans. CHSY1 and IDUA may be pathogenic causes of hearing impairment in people. Furthermore, CHSY1, CSTB, and SPRED1 were located adjacent to unsolved genetic loci related to USH.A screen of 9139 KO mouse lines revealed 18 candidate genes exhibiting both retinal and inner ear abnormalities consistent with the principal clinical features associated with USH. As the observed phenotypes are attributed to gene deletion in mice, these genes warrant further study to determine the causation of retinal degeneration and hearing loss in patients.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Hepatic fibrosis is characterized by excessive deposition of extracellular matrix (ECM) components, which can potentially progress to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. In this study, a natural product, Arenarine D, was isolated from the endophytic fungus Pallidocercospora crystallina of Ajuga decumbens Thunb. Mechanistic studies established DYRK1B and MYH9 as potential targets of Arenarine D. Through systematic structural optimization, we obtained a series of derivatives of Arenarine D. Among them, the active derivatives 8a, 5b, 11a, and 11b demonstrated enhanced anti-fibrotic activity to varying degrees in both TGF-β1 induced hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) activation models and hepatic fibrosis models induced by bile duct ligation (BDL) and carbon tetrachloride (CCl4). These results underscore the potential of Arenarine D and its derivatives as valuable candidates for developing anti-hepatic fibrosis agents.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a common endocrine disorder affecting women of reproductive age, in which abnormal follicular development is a major contributor to ovulatory dysfunction and infertility. Studies have shown that granulosa cell dysfunction underlies this aberrant follicular development. Within the follicular microenvironment, exosomes serve as crucial mediators of intercellular communication. Notably, exosomal non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) are dysregulated in PCOS and have been implicated in its pathogenesis. Nevertheless, the precise mechanisms by which these exosomal ncRNAs influence abnormal follicular development in PCOS remain to be elucidated.A total of 40 PCOS patients and 45 non-PCOS controls undergoing in-vitro fertilization (IVF) or intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) treatment were included in this study. Exosomes and mural granulosa cells (mGCs) of those patients were isolated from follicular fluid. Cumulus granulosa cells (cGCs) were separated from the cumulus-oocyte complexes (COCs). High-throughput miRNA sequencing were performed to analyze the expression profile of miRNAs in follicular fluid exosomes from 3 PCOS patients and 3 controls, and an additional 37 PCOS and 42 control samples were used for validation. The diagnostic potential of exosomal miR-143-5p for PCOS was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis, and its correlation with clinical parameters was examined. Quantitative real-time PCR was used to confirm miR-143-5p expression in exosomes and granulosa cells. Functional assays in primary mural GCs (mGCs) and KGN cells investigated the effects of exosomal miR-143-5p on granulosa cell proliferation. Bioinformatic analysis combined with dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed to validate the target gene of miR-143-5p. In vivo, a letrozole-induced PCOS rat model was established to investigate the role of miR-143-5p in the pathogenesis of the disease.In this study, we identified exosomal miR-143-5p as significantly upregulated in follicular fluid from PCOS patients, in which it correlated with serum AMH levels and demonstrated strong diagnostic potential. Functional experiments in primary mGCs and KGN cells revealed that miR-143-5p promotes GC proliferation. Mechanistically, RASAL2 was identified and validated as a direct target of miR-143-5p. Exosomes derived from miR-143-5p-overexpressing cells enhanced recipient GC proliferation, confirming the role of exosomal mediation. In a letrozole-induced PCOS rat model, inhibition of miR-143-5p increased RASAL2 expression and ameliorated key pathological features, including ovarian weight, cystic follicle formation, and hormonal imbalances.These findings reveal a novel exosomal miR-143-5p/RASAL2 pathway driving GC proliferation and ovarian dysfunction in PCOS, highlighting its potential as both a diagnostic biomarker and therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Coat colour is among the most distinctive phenotypic traits for pig breed identification. Zhaotong pigs (ZTs), indigenous pigs in China, present two coat colour types: black and brown. However, the key genes and regulatory mechanisms responsible for coat colour variation remain unknown. In this study, we analysed the whole-genome resequencing data of 1110 individuals, including 43 pig breeds, Eurasian wild boars, and an outgroup. Population genetic structure analysis, including principal component analysis (PCA), phylogenetic tree construction, and admixture analysis, revealed that ZTs present unique genetic characteristics. Using selective sweep analysis of the black population vs brown population of ZTs and a genome-wide association study (GWAS) targeting coat colour, we identified tyrosinase-related protein 1 (TYRP1) and nuclear factor I B (NFIB) as two important functional genes that influence coat colour in ZTs. A mutation at the g.209726926_209726931del locus in exon 8 of the TYRP1 gene results in decreased eumelanin synthesis, leading to the brown coat colour of ZTs. Our study is the first to systematically elucidate the molecular genetic mechanisms underlying coat colour formation in ZTs, providing essential theoretical foundations for the conservation of indigenous pig genetic resources and the development of new specialized breeds.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Severe coagulation and endothelial dysfunction are characteristics of sepsis-induced acute pulmonary coagulopathy with high morbidity and mortality. The primary objective of this research is to investigate the role rFGF10 in ameliorating sepsis-induced coagulation and endothelial dysfunction. FGF10 expression levels in sepsis-induced mice lung tissues and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulated Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were detected and the results showed that they were both elevated. Supplementation with rFGF10 protected HUVECs against LPS stimulation and ameliorated sepsis-induced pulmonary coagulation evidenced by the suppressed coagulation factors and alleviated lung injury. Mechanistically, rFGF10 activated Nrf2-modulated mitophagy by PINK1/Parkin pathway in septic mice, which maintained mitochondrial quality, promoted activities of anti-oxidation and suppressed mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (mtROS), therefore, suppressed phosphorylation of NF-𝑘B, Erk1/2 and P38, which thus, is crucial for rFGF10 protection against sepsis induced pulmonary coagulation. Suppression of Nrf2 with its inhibitor ML385 abolished all beneficial effects of rFGF10 on sepsis-induced mice. These findings revealed the therapeutic effects of rFGF10 on sepsis-induced pulmonary coagulation and endothelial dysfunction, which could be a potential pharmacological strategy for clinic.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Thoracic Society. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511850 is a review article
Vitamin A (retinol and retinyl esters) is present in substantial amounts in the urine of healthy adult dogs, but the mechanisms affecting its excretion are poorly understood. To assess whether the onset of urinary vitamin A excretion is dependent on dietary vitamin A intake, breed, and/or parameters of kidney function, 48 puppies from two breeds, the Labrador Retriever and the Miniature Schnauzer were included. Dogs were given four diets with increasing vitamin A content (5000; 12,500; 75,000 and 100,000 IU vitamin A/1000 kcal metabolizable energy). Plasma and urine samples were collected and the onset of a continuous vitamin A excretion in urine was determined for each dog. Vitamin A concentration was determined by HPLC. Concentrations of creatinine, urea, protein and albumin were determined by colorimetric assays. Retinol-binding protein 4 (RBP4) and Tamm-Horsfall protein (THP) were measured by semiquantitative Western blot. Plasma vitamin A concentrations increased with increased dietary vitamin A intake (p < 0.001), but the onset of urinary vitamin A excretion (p = 0.158) and the amount of vitamin A excreted at this time point were not different between the feeding groups (p = 0.128) or breed (p = 0.279). Concentrations of creatinine, urea, protein and albumin in plasma and protein in urine were not different between groups. There were no differences in the concentrations of RBP4 in plasma (p = 0.309), RBP4 in urine (p = 0.345) and THP in urine (p = 0.384). The onset of vitamin A excretion in the urine of dogs seems to be not directly associated with the plasma vitamin A concentration and, thus not simply explained by dietary vitamin A intake alone. The vitamin A excretion is not breed specific and not dependent on kidney function or the occurrence of transport proteins in plasma (RBP4) or urine (THP). Thus, the onset and the amount of vitamin A excreted are determined by factors that remain to be elucidated.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Animal Physiology and Animal Nutrition published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Acrylamide (AA), a widespread food-processing contaminant, induces intestinal injury and hepatotoxicity by disrupting barrier function, redox balance, bile acid metabolism, and gut microbial ecology. This study examined the protective benefits of Ganoderma atrum polysaccharide (PSG-1), focusing on the gut-liver axis. PSG-1 reduced serum aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), and total bile acid (TBA) levels and improved liver histology. It also restored antioxidant defense by enhancing superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activities while lowering malondialdehyde (MDA). At the intestinal level, PSG-1 alleviated barrier disruption and reversed gut dysbiosis, restoring Lactobacillus abundance. This microbial modulation coincided with reactivation of the farnesoid X receptor (FXR)/fibroblast growth factor 15 (FGF15) pathway, which normalized hepatic cholesterol 7α-hydroxylase (CYP7A1) expression and improved bile acid homeostasis. PSG-1 also corrected retinol metabolism disorders by reducing lecithin-retinol acyltransferase (LRAT) and restoring retinol-binding protein 4 (RBP4). These results demonstrate that PSG-1 protects against AA-induced intestinal and hepatic injury through coordinated regulation of oxidative stress, gut microbiota composition, and FXR-mediated bile acid signaling along the gut-liver axis.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Retinol-binding protein 4 (RBP4) is a key transporter of all-trans-retinol (vitamin A), circulating in blood as either holo-RBP4 (retinol-bound) or apo-RBP4 (retinol-free). Dysregulated RBP4 levels, particularly an imbalance between apo- and holo-RBP4, have been implicated in a range of metabolic and cardiovascular diseases. Current detection methods such as ELISA and Western blot lack the specificity to distinguish these two forms. Here, we present an aptamer-based biosensing strategy that overcomes this limitation by using selected single aptamer sequences for the precise and selective quantification of apo- and holo-RBP4 on graphene field-effect transistor (gFET) sensors. The specific contribution to this study is the identification of individual apo- and holo-RBP4-binding aptamers from previously enriched polyclonal libraries, their computational evaluation by molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations, as well as their implementation as isoform-selective recognition elements on gFET sensors. The polyclonal aptamer libraries previously were generated using FluMag-SELEX (FluMag- Systematic Evolution of Ligands by Exponential Enrichment) that are specific to each RBP4 conformer. Next-generation sequencing and bioinformatic enrichment analyses identified two highly specific and high-affinity aptamers, which were further characterized via computational modelling, including molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations. This structural approach elucidated the conformer-specific binding mechanisms, demonstrating aptamers' capacity to differentiate subtle protein conformational changes. The selected aptamers were immobilized on gFET devices, enabling label-free, real-time detection with picomolar sensitivity-a 100-fold improvement over the original libraries. Increased aptamer density on the sensor surface further enhanced signal sensitivity by an order of magnitude. These findings validate the use of aptamers as high-performance biorecognition elements in biosensors, offering a path toward precise RBP4 isoform monitoring.© 2026. The Author(s).
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a degenerative joint disorder strongly exacerbated by obesity, but the underlying metabolic mechanisms remain unclear. This study hypothesized that extracellular vesicles (EVs) from obese adipose tissue (AT-EVs) deliver the adipokine Retinol-Binding Protein 4 (RBP4) to chondrocytes, thereby inducing mitochondrial dysfunction and promoting OA pathogenesis. A high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obesity model and a surgical OA model in mice were established to investigate this pathway. AT-EVs isolated from HFD mice was found to significantly exacerbate cartilage degradation and synovitis in vivo. In vitro, these EVs promoted an inflammatory and catabolic phenotype, increased apoptosis, and induced severe mitochondrial dysfunction in TNF-α-stimulated chondrocytes. RBP4 was identified as the key pathogenic cargo, and its effects were linked to the PI3K/AKT and JAK2/STAT3 signaling activation. Crucially, EVs derived from mice with an adipocyte-specific knockdown of RBP4 lost their pathological effects, successfully rescuing chondrocytes viability, restoring extracellular matrix homeostasis, and alleviating mitochondrial dysfunction. RBP4 enrichment in adipose-derived EVs plays a critical role in promoting OA progression in vivo. Our findings reveal that RBP4 from EVs of obese adipose tissue is a critical mediator of OA pathogenesis, acting through the induction of mitochondrial dysfunction in chondrocytes. This pathway represents a novel and specific therapeutic target for obesity-associated OA.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR) is the leading cause of failure after rhegmatogenous retinal detachment (RRD) repair, yet no baseline biomarkers exist to stratify risk. In this retrospective, nested case-control study we asked whether the vitreous proteome at the time of primary RRD repair predicts subsequent PVR. Undiluted vitreous (1.0 mL) was obtained by pars plana vitrectomy from 16 eyes of 16 patients (8 who later developed PVR and 8 matched RRD controls) and analyzed by tandem mass tag (TMT)-multiplexed liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Of 918 proteins identified, 876 were retained after contaminant filtering. After Benjamini-Hochberg correction for multiple comparisons, no proteins were differentially expressed between cases and controls. Six proteins (decorin, arrestin-C, pre-mRNA processing factor 6, C-reactive protein, fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase 1 and an immunoglobulin kappa variable chain) reached nominal significance (p < 0.05) but did not survive correction. The most abundant vitreous constituents included albumin, retinol-binding protein 4 and serotransferrin. In this limited cohort, no large or statistically robust baseline proteomic differences were detected between eyes that subsequently developed PVR and matched controls. We hypothesize that the molecular drivers of PVR may emerge postoperatively rather than being present at the time of the index detachment, although larger studies will be required to confirm or refute this possibility. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD077831.© 2026. The Author(s).
Vitamin A is an essential micronutrient with broad physiological roles. The liver is of central importance in whole-body vitamin A homeostasis, with hepatocytes distributing retinol to the rest of the body by secreting it in complex with Retinol-binding protein 4 (RBP4). The goal of this study was to elucidate homeostatic mechanisms regulating hepatic vitamin A metabolism by specifically blocking retinoic acid (RA) signaling in hepatocytes. Herein, we used Albumin-Cre (AlbCre) mice to conditionally express a dominant negative retinoic acid receptor (Rardn) in hepatocytes, generating AlbCre:Rardn mice. These mice experience a functional block in hepatocyte RA signaling, as evidenced by the suppression of Cyp26a1, a gene that is highly responsive to RA and is exclusively expressed in hepatocytes within the liver. Unexpectedly, we observed increased circulating levels of retinol and RBP4 in AlbCre:Rardn mice, accompanied by increased hepatic expression of RBP4 at the gene and protein level. We then compared the effect of blocking RA signaling in AlbCre:Rardn mice with a more physiological depletion of hepatic retinoid content, using a mouse model of diet-induced vitamin A deficiency. Similar to AlbCre:Rardn mice, hepatic RBP4 protein expression was higher in vitamin A deficient mice. However, this was instead accompanied by no transcriptional change in hepatic Rbp4 and reduced retinol-RBP4 in the plasma, indicating an overall reduction in hepatic retinol-RBP4 secretion. Together, these data provide new insight into factors that modulate circulating retinol-RBP4 levels, and how the liver supplies the rest of the body with vitamin A.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42417811 is a review article
Despite the clinical success of PD-1 blockade, therapeutic resistance remains a major barrier. Using an in vivo CRISPR-Cas9 screen with a metabolism-focused sgRNA library in MC38 and B16 syngeneic tumor models, we identified leukotriene A4 hydrolase (LTA4H) as a candidate regulator of PD-1 resistance. Lta4h ablation was associated with enhanced PD-1 responsiveness, increased CD8+ T and NK-cell infiltration and function, and reduced myeloid accumulation. Single-cell and spatial transcriptomic analyses showed that LTA4H is expressed in both malignant and myeloid compartments, with LTA4H-high tumor regions associated with myeloid-enriched niches and TGF-β related signaling. Mechanistically, hypoxia-induced HIF1α upregulated Lta4h in tumor cells, supporting tumor cells as one relevant source of LTA4H/LTB4. LTA4H-LTB4 signaling was linked to myeloid remodeling and TGF-β1 production in LTB4-conditioned neutrophils. Pharmacological blockade of LTB4 receptor signaling with the BLT1 antagonist CP-105696 improved tumor control in combination with PD-1 blockade. These findings identify intratumoral LTA4H-LTB4 signaling as a metabolic-immune pathway associated with suppressive myeloid remodeling and support further investigation of LTB4 receptor blockade to improve PD-1 blockade responses.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Peptidyl arginine deiminase 4 (PAD4) is previously known for its role in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) through its facilitation of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) by citrullinating histones. However, the specific citrullinated substrates have not been fully elucidated, especially non-histones. By performing citrullination mapping, we unraveled the involvement of cathepsin H (CTSH), a novel substrate of PAD4, which undergoes citrullination at the R315 site. Then the citrullination of CTSH obviously altered its molecular conformation and subsequently reduced its enzymatic activity, which significantly boosted the formation of NETs. Consistently, CTSH knockout mice demonstrated exacerbated colonic inflammation and higher levels of NETs, which might be achieved by activating the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/protein kinase B (PI3K-Akt) signaling pathway. These findings underscore the critical role of CTSH in IBD pathogenesis and position it as a potential therapeutic target, highlighting the complex interplay among PAD4, CTSH, and IBD.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Mitochondria, as crucial organelles in eukaryotic cells, are deeply involved in cellular energy metabolism and biogenesis. Currently, mitochondria have been found to transfer between cells and regulate a range of cellular functions and research has found that mitochondrial transfer has been shown to play an important role in regulating bone homeostasis.Laser confocal imaging was used to confirm the occurrence of mitochondrial transfer between cells. JC-1 staining explains the state of free mitochondria in receptor cells. In order to reveal the relationship between the state and function of free mitochondria, osteogenic induction, Western blotting, flow cytometry, and in vivo experiments were conducted. RNA seq is used to analyze changes in cells. Different inhibitors were used to verify the specific mechanism of action of free mitochondrial transfer.Free mitochondrial transfer can improve the function of receptor cells through lysosomal pathway. Free mitochondria are degraded by cathepsin H (Ctsh) in lysosomes and release a large amount of cysteine after entering the receptor cells. In this process, the existence of membrane potential of free mitochondria is not critical. Cysteine, as the most important raw material for glutathione synthesis, can enhance the number and function of mitochondria in receptor cells.Our study demonstrates that free mitochondrial transfer promotes bone regeneration by increasing cysteine supply, and provides innovative insights for understanding mitochondrial transfer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) occurs frequently and is a highly fatal malignant tumor. Identifying molecular markers for early diagnosis and prognosis of ESCC is crucial. Leukotriene A4 hydrolase (LTA4H), an inflammatory mediator, was reported to be associated in development of various cancers; however, its role in ESCC remains to be determined. The aim of this study was to determine LTA4H expression levels in ESCC and adjacent nonmalignant esophageal epithelial tissues using tissue microarray and immunohistochemistry. Survival analysis was performed to determine the relationship between LTA4H expression and patient survival, as well as expression patterns. Multivariate Cox regression analysis was used to predict risks associated with various clinicopathological parameters. Expression level of LTA4H in esophageal cancer cell lines was detected using RT-qPCR. Cancer cell lines with high and low LTA4H expression were identified. Data demonstrated that LTA4H expression was upregulated in ESCC tissues. Univariate Kaplan-Meier analysis indicated that high LTA4H expression was negatively correlated with patient survival. LTA4H expression was positively correlated with lymph node metastasis and advanced pathological tumor-node-metastasis stage. Multivariate Cox regression analysis confirmed that LTA4H expression is an independent prognostic factor for poor prognosis in ESCC patients. RT-qPCR results showed that LTA4H expression was higher in KYSE-30 and KYSE-450 cell lines, while lower in TE1 and KYSE-70 cell lines. Our findings demonstrated that high expression of LTA4H was detected in ESCC, which was positively correlated with tumor progression and negatively associated with patient prognosis, suggesting this inflammatory mediator's potential as a biomarker for ESCC.
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) represents a highly prevalent and aggressive malignancy endemic to Southeast Asia. Early and accurate diagnosis is critical to improving survival outcomes; however, the absence of robust, stage-specific biomarkers remains a key obstacle to clinical implementation of early screening strategies.We performed untargeted serum proteomic profiling using mass spectrometry in 15 treatment-naïve early-stage NPC patients and 15 VCA-IgA-positive healthy controls. Bioinformatics analyses were conducted to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). Machine learning (random forest combined with recursive feature elimination) was employed to prioritize candidate biomarkers, which were subsequently verified using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in independent sample cohorts.In total, 1,428 serum proteins were identified, among which 1,410 were reliably quantified. We observed 31 upregulated and 189 downregulated proteins in NPC patients relative to controls. Spearman correlation analysis revealed significant associations: LTA4H (leukotriene A4 hydrolase) levels correlated with serum cell infiltration (r = 0.383, p = 0.032) and CD8 + T-cell abundance (r = 0.408, p = 0.021); both SULT1A3 (sulfotransferase family 1 A member 3) and FGL1 (fibrinogen-like protein 1) levels were positively associated with M1 macrophage infiltration (r = 0.510, p = 0.003 and r = 0.430, p = 0.015, respectively). In a preliminary validation cohort (n = 80), ELISA yielded AUC values of 0.631 (95% CI: 0.515-0.736, p = 0.04) for LTA4H, 0.787 (95% CI: 0.681-0.871, p < 0.001) for SULT1A3, and 0.688 (95% CI: 0.575-0.787, p = 0.002) for FGL1. In large-scale independent validation, SULT1A3 achieved an AUC of 0.826 (95% CI: 0.766-0.876; sensitivity = 78.89%, specificity = 75.47%) in cohort 1 (n = 196) and 0.796 (95% CI: 0.723-0.857; sensitivity = 76.67%, specificity = 76.67%) in cohort 2 (n = 150).Through an integrated workflow combining proteomic screening, machine learning prioritization, and multi-stage ELISA validation, we identified SULT1A3 as a candidate serum-based biomarker for early detection of NPC. Preliminary findings suggest that SULT1A3 may have potential utility in clinical screening, though further validation in independent, multi‑center cohorts is required.© 2026. The Author(s).
Microglia play crucial roles in Alzheimer's disease (AD), yet the molecular mechanisms are unclear. Here, we show that CD31, a recognized endothelial marker, is predominantly expressed in microglia but not in neurons or astrocytes, and it is significantly elevated in the brains of AD patients and mouse models. Microglia-specific CD31 knockdown in 5xFAD mice substantially attenuated the dysregulated transcription networks, suppressed microglia hyperactivation and the disease-associated microglia (DAM), mitigated Aβ deposition and inflammation, and eventually improved cognitive functions in mice. Mechanistically, CD31 knockdown damaged the simultaneous recruitment of Src homology phosphatase 2 (SHP2) and STAT3, leading to a reduced dephosphorylation and enhanced activation of STAT3, a transcription factor. STAT3 activation increased transcription of membrane metalloendopeptidase (MME) and promoted Aβ clearance. Collectively, this study identifies microglial CD31, by regulating SHP2-STAT3-MME axis, plays a role in AD pathogenesis and targeting CD31 is promising in AD drug development.© 2026. The Author(s).
To explore the association between leukotriene A4 hydrolase (LTA4H) gene polymorphism and bacterial meningitis in young children.This case-control study enrolled 88 children with bacterial meningitis and 88 age-matched healthy controls. LTA4H rs17525495 polymorphism was detected by TaqMan quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. Serum levels of leukotriene B4 (LTB4) and lipoxin A4 (LXA4) were measured by Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay. Genotype distribution, allele frequency and mediator levels were compared between groups.The TT genotype and T allele frequencies were significantly higher in cases than in controls (both P < 0.05). Serum LTB4 and LXA4 levels were elevated in the study group (P < 0.001), with TT carriers exhibiting the highest concentrations, followed by CT and CC carriers (P < 0.05). Multivariate analysis showed CT carriers had a 3.8-fold and TT carriers a 5.6-fold increased risk of bacterial meningitis compared to CC carriers. The TT genotype was also associated with higher complication rates (odds ratio = 4.20, 95% confidence interval: 1.85-9.54).LTA4H rs17525495 polymorphism is associated with susceptibility to bacterial meningitis in young children. The TT genotype correlates with higher disease risk and may serve as a genetic susceptibility marker.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) arises from intertwined inflammatory, metabolic, and hypoxia-driven angiogenic programs, yet upstream regulators coordinating these processes remain incompletely defined. Here, we used an integrative multi-omics and experimental framework to identify cathepsin H (CTSH) as a candidate causal driver of proliferative DR (PDR). By combining GWAS, eQTL, pQTL, and mQTL datasets with Mendelian randomization, summary-data-based Mendelian randomization, and Bayesian colocalization, CTSH emerged as the strongest genetically supported candidate across discovery and validation analyses. In the UK Biobank (UKB), circulating CTSH was elevated in diabetic retinopathy and independently predicted incident disease. Single-cell transcriptomic analyses localized CTSH predominantly to myeloid compartments within fibrovascular membranes and linked CTSH-high states to inflammatory, hypoxic, and angiogenic programs. In high-glucose-stimulated THP-1 monocytes, CTSH promoted reactive oxygen species accumulation, NF-κB activation, and increased IL-6, TNF-α, HIF-1α, and VEGF expression, whereas CTSH silencing reversed these effects. Structure-guided virtual screening identified Eriocitrin as a lead CTSH-binding candidate. In db/db mice, intravitreal Eriocitrin improved inner-retinal function, restored OCTA-derived vascular metrics, and partially rescued retinal structure, with efficacy comparable to anti-VEGF treatment across several endpoints. Molecular analyses further showed coordinated suppression of inflammatory, hypoxic, angiogenic, and NF-κB signaling. Together, these findings identify CTSH as an upstream immunometabolic regulator of DR-related inflammatory and angiogenic biology, with the strongest genetic support observed for PDR, and support CTSH targeting as a potential multi-pathway therapeutic strategy beyond VEGF inhibition.© The author(s).
The prevalence of diabetes mellitus (DM) is increasing daily worldwide. DM patients suffer from numerous complications, including the development of chronic wounds that can lead to amputation. These complications necessitate innovative approaches. As part of these innovative approaches, this study synthesized four chalcone derivatives and evaluated their activities in an in vitro diabetic wound model. Several spectroscopic techniques, including 1 H and 13 C NMR and HR-MS, were used to confirm the structures of the newly synthesized compounds. After investigating the inhibition of α-glucosidase in HDF-1 cells treated with D-glucose (50 mM), MTT tests and scratch tests were performed. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β), total antioxidant status (TAS), and procollagen type-1 were analyzed using an ELISA kit. Additionally, proliferation (Ki67), inflammatory (Nuclear factor kappa B; NFκB), and growth factor (Platelet-derived growth factor subunit A; PDGFA) markers in fibroblasts were assessed by immunohistochemistry. All compounds exhibited strong α-glucosidase inhibitory activity, with IC₅₀ values ranging from 1.115 to 1.612 µg/mL. Cytotoxicity analysis demonstrated that all compounds were biocompatible, maintaining over 85% cell viability in HDF-1 cells. Under diabetic conditions, treatment significantly improved cell viability and promoted wound closure, particularly in C4. In addition, the compounds reduced pro-inflammatory cytokines TNF-α and IL-1β while increasing TAS and procollagen type I levels. Immunocytochemical findings revealed enhanced Ki67 and PDGFA expression and decreased NFκB activation in treated groups. Molecular docking analysis supported the experimental findings by demonstrating favorable binding interactions with α-glucosidase. In conclusion, chalcone derivatives-particularly compound C4-promote diabetic wound healing through multitarget mechanisms involving anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and pro-regenerative effects, highlighting their strong therapeutic potential.© 2026. The Author(s).
Tumor angiogenesis is a major driver of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) progression, yet the tumor-intrinsic mechanisms that regulate endothelial activation remain incompletely understood. Here, we investigated the role of ubiquitin-specific protease 1 (USP1) in HCC-associated angiogenesis. Spatial transcriptomic analysis revealed a positive association between USP1 expression and vascular formation in HCC tissues. Conditioned medium from USP1-overexpressing HCC cells markedly promoted endothelial proliferation, migration, and tube formation, whereas these effects were attenuated after USP1 silencing. Mechanistically, mass spectrometry and subsequent validation identified leukotriene A4 hydrolase (LTA4H) as a substrate of USP1. USP1 stabilized LTA4H by removing K48-linked polyubiquitin chains and preventing its proteasomal degradation. Functional rescue experiments further showed that LTA4H restoration largely reversed the impaired endothelial activation and angiogenic phenotypes caused by USP1 depletion, accompanied by reactivation of ERK signaling. In vivo, USP1 overexpression enhanced xenograft growth and intratumoral microvessel formation. Collectively, these findings identify the USP1-LTA4H axis as a critical regulator of HCC angiogenesis and provide a mechanistic rationale for targeting this pathway in anti-angiogenic therapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Osteoporosis (OP) occurs with decreased bone mass and deterioration of the bone microarchitecture. This can lead to an increased incidence of bone fractures. In traditional Chinese medicine, the herbal pair of Eucommia ulmoides and Achyranthes bidentata is used to tonify the liver and kidney in order to strengthen bones. This study examined the network pharmacology and molecular docking of the pair to investigate the pharmacological mechanisms of the drug pair against OP. Active compounds were retrieved from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology database if they had an oral bioavailability of 30% or greater and a drug-likeness score of 0.18 or greater. OP-associated targets were identified from the GeneCards and Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man databases. The compound-target-disease network and protein-protein interaction network were built using Cytoscape and the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins, respectively. Key pathways were identified using the Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery functional enrichment analysis. To predict the potential binding interactions between the major compounds and the hub targets, molecular docking was used. In total, 49 active compounds (28 from E ulmoides and 21 from A bidentata) and 95 overlapping therapeutic targets were found. Quercetin, kaempferol, β-sitosterol, stigmasterol and wogonin were identified as key bioactive components within the network analysis. Fourteen hub targets, including interleukin-6, vascular endothelial growth factor A, tumor necrosis factor, tumor protein p53, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, were identified through protein-protein interaction analysis. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment revealed involvement in tumor necrosis factor, mitogen-activated protein kinase, hypoxia-inducible factor 1, Toll-like receptor, and NOD-like receptor signaling pathways. Molecular docking demonstrated favorable binding affinities between the key compounds and core proteins, suggesting potential interactions consistent with the network pharmacology predictions. The Eucommia-Achyranthes herbal pair may exert potential therapeutic effects on OP through multicomponent, multi-target, and multi-pathway interactions. Its main bioactive compounds may potentially interact with inflammatory and osteogenic signaling pathways via key targets such as interleukin-6, vascular endothelial growth factor A, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, tumor protein p53, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, which may be associated with bone metabolism and structural integrity. These findings provide a theoretical foundation for future experimental and clinical validation.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Knee osteoarthritis (KOA) is the most common joint disorder and causes pain and functional limitation. Patients who are refractory to conservative treatment or unsuitable for surgery owing to advanced age or comorbidities have limited options. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is implicated in synovitis, angiogenesis and pain in KOA. microRNA (miRNA) based therapies have recently attracted attentions. This study aimed to investigate whether intra-articular delivery of VEGF-targeting miRNA can reduce synovitis and pain.Human synovial sarcoma cell line HS-SY-II was used for screening of VEGF-targeting miRNAs and primary synovial fibroblasts derived from KOA patients was used for confirmation of the efficacy. miRNA mimics were transfected and VEGF production was quantified. In vivo analyses, KOA was induced by anterior cruciate ligament transection and medial meniscectomy (ACLT model). Wistar rats were randomly allocated to 5 groups in 2 cohorts (n = 5 per group per cohort): normal (no ACLT), ACLT + negative control miRNA (NC), ACLT + miR-126-3p, ACLT + miR-140-5p, and ACLT + a combination of miR-126-3p and miR-140-5p (miR-Mix). miRNA mimics were injected intra-articularly. Hindlimb weight-bearing was assessed using incapacitance tester. Synovitis and cartilage degeneration were evaluated histologically. VEGF levels in synovial fluid, synovium and cartilage were quantified by Simple Western analysis. Non-parametric tests and repeated-measures analyses were performed, with p < 0.05 considered statistically significant.Combination of miR-126-3p and miR-140-5p suppressed VEGF production in HS-SY-II cells than either miRNA alone and the suppressive activity on VEGF production was confirmed in primary synovial fibroblasts from KOA patients. In ACLT rats, synovial VEGF levels were increased in NC group compared with normal rats and tended to be lower in all miRNA-treated groups. Hindlimb weight-bearing ratios were reduced to about 30% after ACLT and remained low in the NC group, whereas they gradually improved in the miR-126-3p and miR-140-5p monotherapy groups and almost recovered in the miR-Mix group. At final time point, weight-bearing ratio was significantly higher in miR-Mix group than NC group. Histologically, Krenn scores were tend to lower in miR-126-3p and miR-Mix groups than NC group, indicating amelioration of synovitis, whereas OARSI histopathology scores for femoral cartilage did not differ significantly among groups and tended to be higher in miR-treated groups. There was a strong negative correlation between Krenn synovitis score and hindlimb weight-bearing ratio (Spearman's ρ = -0.7, p < 0.001).Intra-articular administration of VEGF-suppressive miR-Mix ameliorated synovitis and pain-related behaviour. In highly unstable traumatic model, however, structural protection of articular cartilage was not observed and cartilage degeneration even tended to be worse in miR-treated groups, possibly due to increased weight-bearing following pain relief.These findings suggest intra-articular delivery of VEGF-suppresive miRNAs may represent novel analgesic strategies for KOA by reducing synovitis within joint. miRNA-based modulation of VEGF production could potentially be translated into future disease-modifying and analgesic treatments, however further studies using non-traumatic KOA models, safety evaluation and clarifying molecular mechanisms are required.© 2026 The Authors.
Pancreatic islet transplantation can restore insulin production in patients with severe diabetes, but donor material is scarce, and early engraftment is constrained by inflammatory and mechanical stress and a prolonged avascular phase, during which oxygen and nutrient delivery are limited by diffusion. Revascularization relies primarily on stress-induced vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A), prolonging metabolic compromise, increasing autophagic burden, and rendering grafts vulnerable to secondary stress. Accelerating vascular integration during this time window is therefore critical for graft health. We show that β-cell-targeted aptamer-VEGF-A small activating RNA (saRNA) chimeras selectively induce robust VEGF-A expression in mouse and human islets independently of hypoxia- or nutrient-stress pathways, without activating autophagy or stress-responsive genes. In vivo, chimera-primed islets transplanted into anterior chamber and kidney capsule models exhibited accelerated vascular migration, earlier perfusion, and faster resolution of LC3-dependent autophagic stress without altering endpoint vascular density. Functionally, marginal-mass mouse and human grafts restored glucose control more effectively, preserved intra-islet architecture, and delayed hyperglycemia following STZ-induced β-cell loss. The RNA chimera's modular architecture of RNA chimeras allows transient, tissue-adaptable transcriptional activation across species and cell sources. These findings establish that brief, ex vivo RNA-mediated priming preconditions islets to withstand early engraftment stress, enhancing vascular integration and functional outcomes. This scalable, stress-independent strategy may lower the minimum effective transplant mass and expand access to cellular therapies for diabetes.© 2026. The Author(s).
Bevacizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody against vascular endothelial growth factor A. Its long half-life and low volume of distribution allow circulating drug to persist in the body for weeks, which becomes clinically relevant when urgent or emergent surgery is needed. Because bevacizumab is largely intravascular, therapeutic plasma exchange (TPE) is attractive, though published experience is limited. We describe four adults who underwent TPE to facilitate surgery or postoperative wound healing after bevacizumab exposure: two with glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) before craniotomy, one with GBM after bowel resection with primary anastomosis, and one with metastatic rectal adenocarcinoma before craniotomy for a hemorrhagic brain mass. Patients received one to three sessions with albumin replacement, with fresh frozen plasma added in one case. No postoperative hemorrhage or delayed wound healing occurred. These cases support a practical role for TPE when residual bevacizumab exposure remains relevant and awaiting spontaneous clearance is not feasible.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Postmenopausal osteoporosis(PMOP) is triggered by estrogen deficiency. Insufficient estrogen lead to bone resorption exceeding bone formation, thereby causing decreased bone mass. Studies have confirmed that the total flavonoids extract from Epimedii Folium(TFE) can ameliorate osteoporosis, while the bone nutrient consisting of chondroitin sulfate(CS) combined with glucosamine hydrochloride(GLcN) exerts therapeutic effects on bone metabolism-related diseases. Since osteoporosis is fundamentally characterized by metabolic disorders, the combination of TFE-bone nutritional supplement(TG) may exert synergistic multi-target regulatory effects, thereby offering a new approach for the prevention and control of PMOP. This study systematically explored the ameliorating effects and mechanisms of TG on PMOP through in vivo and in vitro experiments combined with metabolomics technology. In vivo, a rat model of OVX was established by bilateral ovariectomy. The pharmacodynamic effects of TG on PMOP were verified based on bone histopathological staining, bone mineral density, and physiological indicators. In addition, metabolomics technology was used to quantify urine metabolites to explore the potential biomarkers of PMOP regulated by TG and the associated metabolic networks. In vitro, MC3T3-E1 cells were treated with TFE and TG to screen safe drug doses. Subsequently, osteogenic induction was performed, and the effects and mechanisms of TG on the osteogenic differentiation of MC3T3-E1 cells were studied by ALP staining, ARS staining, and Western blot analysis. Pharmacodynamic results showed that TG reduced the generation of osteoclasts and significantly restored bone mineral density and physiological indicator levels. Metabolomic results indicated that TG alleviated bone loss mainly by intervening with multiple metabolic pathways, including nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism, histidine metabolism, pyrimidine metabolism, tryptophan metabolism, alanine, aspartate and glutamate metabolism, purine metabolism, vitamin B6 metabolism, etc. In vitro experiments confirmed that TG promoted the proliferation of osteoblasts and osteogenic differentiation via the bone morphogenetic protein-2(BMP-2)/Sma-and Mad-related protein(Smad) signaling pathway. In summary, TG can effectively ameliorate PMOP through a multi-target synergistic effect. This study provides an experimental basis and theoretical support for the clinical application of TG.
Cannabidiol (CBD), a major non-psychoactive phytocannabinoid derived from Cannabis sativa L., has shown therapeutic potential in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). However, the mechanisms by which CBD modulates synovial angiogenesis remain unclear.This study aimed to investigate whether CBD attenuates RA progression by suppressing synovial angiogenesis and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms.An adjuvant-induced arthritis (AIA) rat model was established to evaluate the therapeutic effects of CBD in vivo using arthritis scoring, micro-CT, and histopathological, immunohistochemical, and immunofluorescence analyses. In vitro, cytotoxicity was determined using the CCK-8 assay, followed by evaluations of CBD's direct effects on the proliferation, migration, invasion, and inflammatory responses of RA fibroblast-like synoviocytes (RA-FLS) were evaluated, alongside Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) for cytotoxicity screening. Furthermore, the paracrine regulation of angiogenesis was assessed using a conditioned medium (CM) transfer system from hypoxia-stimulated RA-FLS applied to human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Molecular mechanisms were analyzed via Western blotting, RT-qPCR, ELISA, co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), molecular docking, and targeted proteasome inhibition (MG132).In vivo, CBD (5 and 10 mg/kg) treatment markedly alleviated joint inflammation, synovial angiogenesis, and structural bone destruction in AIA rats. In vitro, non-cytotoxic concentrations of CBD (2.4-4.8 μM) significantly suppressed aberrant RA-FLS proliferation, migration, invasion, and pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion. Mechanistically, CBD abrogated the hypoxia-induced accumulation of hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) protein in RA-FLS without significantly altering HIF1A mRNA expression. This reduction was effectively reversed by MG132. Co-IP and molecular docking analyses revealed that CBD directly enhances the polyubiquitination of HIF-1α through stable structural interactions, driving a ubiquitin-proteasome-dependent degradation mechanism. Consequently, CBD dose-dependently decreased the extracellular secretion of vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) and angiopoietin-2 (ANG-2) from RA-FLS. Functionally, CM from CBD-treated RA-FLS disrupted the pro-angiogenic paracrine crosstalk-independent of direct CBD carryover-significantly impairing HUVEC migration, capillary-like tube formation, and downstream VEGFR2 (Tyr1175) phosphorylation.CBD attenuates RA pathogenesis not only by directly suppressing RA-FLS hyperactivity but also by severing the pro-angiogenic paracrine crosstalk between RA-FLS and endothelial cells. These effects are driven by the ubiquitin-proteasome-dependent degradation of HIF-1α in RA-FLS via direct structural engagement, which depletes VEGFA/ANG-2 production and subsequent endothelial VEGFR2 activation. These findings highlight CBD as a promising disease-modifying anti-angiogenic therapeutic agent for RA.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
To characterize urinary peptide signatures in patients with and without overactive bladder (OAB), identify peptide differences by OAB phenotype, and determine the association between baseline peptide profiles and improvement in incontinence following therapy.Peptidomic analysis using LC-MS/MS on urinary samples from 152 participants (100 OAB patients, 52 healthy controls) was performed. Participants completed validated questionnaires at baseline and following treatment. We isolated urinary peptides, analyzed them by mass spectrometry, and identified them using PEAKS Online software. Classical statistical analyses and random forest machine learning classifiers were used to distinguish OAB from controls, and responders versus nonresponders to therapy.The urinary peptidome differed significantly between patients with OAB and controls in overall peptide composition (p=0.001) and number of unique peptides (p=0.001). Peptides from fibrillin-1 and quiescin sulfhydryl oxidase 1 were more abundant in OAB. Random forest classifiers had good discrimination between OAB and controls (AUC 0.76 overall; 0.91 in premenopausal subset). Baseline peptide composition differed between those who experienced improvement in incontinence versus those who did not experience improvement following therapy in the overall cohort (p=0.03) and sacral neuromodulation group (p=0.04).OAB is associated with a unique urinary peptide signature that reflects extracellular matrix remodeling, oxidative stress, and altered cellular metabolism. Baseline peptide profiles differ between those who symptomatically improved versus did not improve following therapy suggesting potential utility of urinary peptides as prognostic biomarkers. These findings support the heterogeneous nature of OAB pathophysiology and may facilitate development of new diagnostic and personalized therapeutic approaches.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Human skin includes an elastic fiber system consisting of oxytalan, elaunin, and elastin fibers, which are classified based on their fibrillin microfibril and elastin contents. These fibers decrease or lose their function with aging and photoaging. A disintegrin-like and metalloprotease domain with thrombospondin type I motifs-like 6 (ADAMTSL6) is a fibrillin microfibril-associated component that promotes fibrillin microfibril formation.To investigate the contribution of ADAMTSL6 to the maintenance and aging/photoaging of dermal elastic fibers in human skin.ADAMTSL6, fibrillin-1, and elastin in papillary dermis of sun-protected buttock skin and sun-exposed eyelid skin were detected by immunohistochemistry, and the contribution of ADAMTSL6 to elastic fiber formation in dermal fibroblasts was investigated.ADAMTSL6 colocalized with fibrillin-1 in oxytalan fibers and parts of elaunin fibers in the papillary dermis, but not in the reticular dermis, even when fibrillin-1 was present in the reticular dermis. Furthermore, ADAMTSL6 expression levels in eyelid skin decreased more markedly than in buttock skin with aging. Temporary knockdown of ADAMTSL6 expression by small interfering RNA in cultured dermal fibroblasts resulted in decreased expression of fibrillin-1, while stable knockdown of ADAMTSL6 by short hairpin RNA did not affect the deposition of fibrillin-1 but increased the expression and deposition of elastin in dermal fibroblast-derived matrix.Our results suggest that ADAMTSL6 contributes to the maintenance of oxytalan and elaunin fibers in the papillary dermis, and decreases slightly with intrinsic aging, but more prominently with photoaging. Maintaining ADAMTSL6 expression may contribute to preservation of dermal elastic fiber architecture.Copyright © 2026 Japanese Society for Investigative Dermatology. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Unicuspid aortic valve (UAV) is an exceptionally rare congenital aortic valve anomaly. UAV is more commonly associated with significant aortic stenosis at a younger age than bicuspid aortic valve. Two forms of UAV have been described. Acommissural type of UAV typically presents in early infancy, and unicommissural type of UAV usually presents in late childhood or early adolescence. Echocardiography is the main imaging tool used to assess aortic valve morphology, aortic dimensions, and the presence and severity of stenosis or regurgitation. Early surgical intervention is typically required for UAV and is most commonly performed for aortic valve replacement. Postoperative echocardiograms are obtained on a regular basis to assess for proper function of the replaced valve and for signs of left ventricular dysfunction.  We present the case of a 16-year-old girl with genetically confirmed Marfan syndrome who presented with progressive exertional dyspnea, fatigue, and reduced exercise tolerance over several months and was found to have severe aortic stenosis due to unicommissural UAV. Computed tomography angiography demonstrated mid-ascending aortic dilation measuring 43 mm, corresponding to an indexed diameter of 25.0 mm/m² based on a body surface area of 1.72 m², while the aortic root measured 34 mm with a z-score of +1.8. She underwent successful surgical aortic valve replacement with a 19-mm mechanical prosthesis. Isolated aortic valve replacement was selected because the symptomatic severe valve obstruction required surgery, whereas the aortic root remained below the recommended surgical thresholds and the 43-mm mid-ascending aortic dilation was not considered an independent indication for replacement. No prior imaging was available to determine the aortic growth rate, and there was no confirmed family history of aortic dissection. The postoperative echocardiogram showed a well-functioning aortic prosthetic valve with preserved left ventricular systolic function. She was discharged on warfarin with structured international normalized ratio monitoring. Given her age, sex, significant aortopathy, mechanical prosthesis, and potential for future pregnancy, she received counseling regarding contraception, anticoagulation, pregnancy risk, and long-term aortic surveillance. Genetic counseling and cascade testing for the pathogenic fibrillin-1 gene variant were recommended for first-degree relatives. At the three-month follow-up, exertional dyspnea had improved, and she had resumed her usual daily activities.Copyright © 2026, Chamma et al.
Heart failure (HF) represents the final stage of cardiovascular disease progression, characterized by high morbidity and mortality. Pressure overload in HF activates the PI3K/AKT pathway, and prolonged activation leads to pathological cardiac hypertrophy. However, the mechanism underlying sustained PI3K/AKT activation in pressure overload-induced HF remains unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that miR-203 overexpression in transgenic mice counteracts cardiac dysfunction and pathological remodeling in HF, whereas miR-203 downregulation exacerbates HF. At the cellular level, miR-203 overexpression significantly reduces Angiotensin II (Ang II)-induced cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and injury, while miR-203 knockdown aggravates these effects. Mechanistically, miR-203 binds to the 3' untranslated region (3'UTR) of insulin-like growth factor binding protein 5 (IGFBP5) mRNA, inhibiting IGFBP5 protein expression, thereby suppressing PI3K/AKT signaling and mitigating cardiomyocyte hypertrophy. Furthermore, we demonstrate that fibronectin-1 (FN1) is a critical functional partner for IGFBP5, as knockdown of FN1 attenuates IGFBP5-induced PI3K/AKT activation and hypertrophy. This study is the first to elucidate the role and mechanism of miR-203 in regulating pressure overload-induced HF, offering a potential genetic tool for HF therapy.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42548868 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42545892 is a review article
Primary mitochondrial diseases (PMD) have limited disease-modifying therapies, currently applicable to only 3 of over 400 discrete gene disorders. Cycloheximide (CHX) is a global cytosolic translation inhibitor we previously reported to rescue PMD preclinical models, although its toxicity precluded clinical development. To identify specific mediators underlying CHX treatment benefit in PMD, SOMAscan-based proteomics was performed in complex I deficient and genetic disease fibroblast cell line models grown in galactose. Thrombopoietin (THPO) and insulin-like growth factor binding protein 5 (IGFBP5) were the only two differentially regulated proteins, together with ERK/MAPK pathway dysregulation, identified upon CHX treatment in PMD versus healthy control cells. THPO inhibition by siRNA or pharmacologic approaches rescued stress-induced viability loss in patient fibroblasts having diverse PMD gene etiologies, and significantly improved mitochondrial stress, linear growth, and neuromuscular function in a classical ndufs2 -/- C. elegans model. IGFBP5 overexpression by lentiviral or mRNA approaches rescued cell viability across distinct PMD gene etiologies, as did IGF1 pharmacologic inhibition across both PMD mutant and C. elegans models. MAPK pharmacologic inhibition rescued multiple distinct complex I disease cells' survival, as well as mitochondrial stress in SLC25A46 -/- C. elegans . Combination therapies targeting multiple of these glucose signaling pathway proteins, together with glucose and N-acetylcysteine, yielded superior therapeutic benefit in complex I disease cell and C. elegans models. Additionally, single or combined pharmacologic inhibition of THPO or IGF1 significantly enhanced primary and metastatic osteosarcoma cell death. Collectively, targeted small molecule and genetic modulation of THPO, IGF1, or MAPK recapitulated the significant therapeutic benefit of CHX in PMD, while avoiding global translation inhibition. These novel PMD therapies likely confer benefit by attenuating MAPK-driven autophagy and potentially promoting noncanonical glucose uptake, improving cellular energy balance. Overall, these glucose signaling cellular pathway targets hold broad therapeutic promise for PMD patients, warranting further clinical research development.
Considering the increasing prevalence of pulmonary fibrosis (PF) and the increased exposure to risk factors contributing to its development, this study utilizes the bleomycin (BLM)-induced PF model to explore the potential early therapeutic strategies displayed by the bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMMSCs) and their derived exosomes. The research assessed the efficacy of two administration methods: injection and inhalation by employing a comprehensive evaluation approach, including computed tomography imaging, biochemical assays, molecular analysis, and histopathological examinations. Fifty Wistar rats were divided into 5 groups; the CON group received saline intratracheally (IT) and served as the control group, the BLM group received IT BLM (5 mg/kg), the BMMSCs group received (BLM + BMMSCs in a dose of 106 cells per rat, I/P), the Exo-INJ group received (BLM + BMMSCs-derived exosomes 100 µg per rat I/P), and the Exo-INH group received (BLM + BMMSCs-derived exosomes 100 µg by inhalation). The oxidative status indicators, glutathione (GSH), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), malondialdehyde (MDA), and the level of surfactant protein D (SP-D), a biomarker of lung damage, were evaluated. Furthermore, the level of genetic expression of inflammatory cytokines interleukin-10 (Il10), interleukin-1 beta (Il1b), pro-fibrotic and apoptotic markers, such as transforming growth factor-beta (Tgfb), Bcl-2-Associated X Protein (Bax), and fibroblast growth factor 2 (Fgf2), which functions as a growth factor to protect lung epithelial damage, were determined. Both BMMSCs and their derived exosomes exhibited antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and regenerative properties and have early therapeutic effects against PF, underlining them as promising antifibrotic candidates. In addition, the inhalation approach demonstrated superior performance in a specific metric while yielding comparable results in another. Consequently, it cannot be regarded as the optimal strategy across all evaluation criteria. Therefore, more studies are required to substantiate its applicability and explore the potential improvement that could enhance its overall efficacy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Neuropsychiatric symptoms of Marfan syndrome (MFS) are rarely described, yet accumulating evidence suggests a possible association with psychotic disorders. We report a 17-year-old male with MFS who, two months after medically indicated sternal repair for Marfan-related skeletal dysplasia, developed an acute psychotic episode with catatonia. Catatonic features on admission comprised mutism, rigidity, negativism, posturing, and food refusal (Bush-Francis Catatonia Rating Scale score 31/69). Psychotic features included persecutory delusions, delusions of immortality, and hallucinatory behaviour. Biographical review revealed longstanding limited autonomy, poor social integration, and reactive body image distress following surgery. After exclusion of organic and toxic causes, a diagnosis of brief psychotic disorder comorbid with mild intellectual disability was established. Benzodiazepine treatment was initiated for catatonia; olanzapine was added on day seven for persistent psychotic features, achieving full remission by day 24, with sustained remission off all medication over three years of follow-up. Three pathogenic axes are discussed as hypotheses - a possible shared genetic vulnerability via fibrillin-1/TGF-β dysregulation; Lujan-Fryns syndrome as an unresolved differential; and a stress-diathesis model in which surgery precipitated decompensation on a background of psychosocial burden and cognitive vulnerability. This case supports systematic psychiatric screening in MFS patients, particularly around major surgical events in adolescence.Copyright © 2026, Benkarroum et al.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most prevalent chronic liver disease globally. Chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA), a key component of bile acids, improves hepatic lipid metabolism. The present study aimed to investigate whether CDCA regulates hepatic lipid metabolism by interacting with pyruvate kinase (PK), and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanism. High-fat cell and murine models were generated. The levels of total cholesterol (TC), triglycerides (TG), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and malondialdehyde (MDA) in cells and animal livers were measured. BODIPY and Oil Red staining were employed to detect the lipid droplet content. Reverse transcription-quantitative PCR was used to assess the expression of the lipid-related genes. Immunoprecipitation and molecular docking were used to examine the interaction between CDCA and PK, as well as their interaction sites. The effects of their binding on PK activity and pyruvate synthesis were investigated. Both in vitro and in vivo experiments demonstrated that compared with the high-fat group, the TG, TC and MDA levels in the CDCA-treated group were markedly reduced. In addition, lipid droplet count was markedly decreased and SOD activity was increased. The mRNA expression levels of lipid synthesis genes (such as fatty acid synthase and sterol regulatory element-binding transcription factor 1) were notably decreased, whereas those of lipid metabolism genes (CTP synthase 1 and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α) exhibited the opposite trend. CDCA specifically bound to the PK-M2 subtype, which promoted PK activity and pyruvate production. Pretreatment with a PK inhibitor completely reversed lipid synthesis inhibition and β-oxidation enhancement induced by CDCA. CDCA notably ameliorated hepatic lipid deposition, and its underlying mechanism was revealed to be closely associated with the direct binding of CDCA to PK and subsequent enhancement of PK activity.Copyright: © 2026 Zhang et al.
Chitinase 3-like-1 (CHI3L1/YKL-40) is a secreted glycoprotein that binds to chitin but lacks enzymatic activity. Recent studies have suggested that CHI3L1 nuclear localization is associated with the transition from inflammation to carcinogenesis. To investigate the mechanism underlying CHI3L1 nuclear translocation, we analyzed its putative nuclear localization signals (NLSs) using cNLS Mapper and identified 9 putative NLS sequences. The region with the highest scoring (amino acids 144-173) contains a leucine-rich KQLLL motif at its C-terminal end (residues 170-174). This study aimed to clarify the functional role of this motif.SW480 human colorectal cancer cells (CRCs) with KQLLL motif deletion (KO cells) were generated using the CRISPR-Cas9 system. CHI3L1 expression and secretion were evaluated by western blotting and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, respectively. The subcellular localization of CHI3L1 with or without TNF-α stimulation, was examined by immunofluorescence analysis. Cell proliferation was assessed using the MTS assay.CHI3L1 secretion was almost undetectable in KO cells, accompanied by a marked reduction in intracellular expression. Immunofluorescence analysis demonstrated partial nuclear localization of CHI3L1 in wild-type (WT) cells, with predominant cytoplasmic and perinuclear distribution. In contrast, KO cells showed markedly diminished CHI3L1 signals. Functionally, KO cells exhibited significantly reduced proliferation compared with WT cells (p<0.01).The KQLLL motif regulates CHI3L1 expression, secretion, and subcellular localization, suggesting a critical role in CRC cells proliferation.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Periodontitis pathogenesis is driven by oral microbiome dysbiosis and dysregulated host immune responses. This cross-sectional study characterized salivary microbiome and inflammatory mediator profiles to identify candidate biomarkers distinguishing periodontal health from periodontitis (PD) using hyperplex PCR, multiplex assay and exploratory machine learning.Stimulated saliva samples from 57 participants (28 periodontally healthy, 29 with PD stage III/IV) were collected and analyzed using Hyperplex PCR (simultaneously amplifying multiple targets in a single assay) for oral bacteria and a multiplex immunoassay including 37 inflammatory mediators. Random forest modeling explored the discriminatory performance of individual and combined biomarkers.Individuals with PD stage III/IV showed elevated relative abundance of Filifactor alocis, Fretibacterium spp., Parvimonas micra (P < 0.05) compared to periodontally healthy individuals. Among determined inflammatory mediators, the levels of Chitinase 3-like 1, sIL-6Rβ, sIL-6Rα, IL-19, pentraxin-3, sTNF-R1 and TWEAK were elevated in PD stage III/IV. Exploratory modeling identified Fretibacterium spp. as the strongest individual discriminator (AUC = 0.82), a performance that was not improved by two- or three-marker combinations incorporating additional bacteria or inflammatory mediators.In exploratory unadjusted analyses, salivary Fretibacterium spp. showed the highest discriminatory performance (AUC = 0.82), although this association was not statistically significant after adjustment for age, smoking, and cardiovascular disease. These exploratory findings require further validation in larger, diverse cohorts to assess their potential clinical utility.Copyright © 2026 Titusson, Lundmark, Soares, Damdimopoulos, Johannsen, Naseem and Yucel-Lindberg.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42460696 is a review article
Serum biomarkers associated with abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) have been studied individually; however, an algorithm that considers panel of proteins to inform AAA prognosis may improve predictive accuracy. We conducted a prognostic study using a prospectively recruited cohort of patients with and without AAA (n = 452). Serum concentrations of seven biomarkers were measured at baseline, and the cohort was followed for 2 years. The primary outcome was major adverse aortic event (MAAE; composite of rapid AAA expansion [>0.5 cm/6 months or >1 cm/12 months] or AAA intervention). Using 10-fold cross-validation, we trained a random forest model to predict 2-year MAAE using: (1) clinical characteristics, (2) biomarkers, and (3) clinical characteristics and biomarkers. Two-year MAAE occurred in 114 (25%) patients. Four proteins were significantly elevated in patients with AAA compared to those without AAA (matrix metalloproteinase 3 [MMP-3], human epididymal secretory protein 4 [HE4/WFDC2], Chitinase 3-like-1, and Kallikrein 6/Neurosin), composing the protein panel. For predicting 2-year MAAE, our random forest model achieved an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) of 0.64 using clinical features alone and the addition of the four-protein panel improved performance to an AUROC of 0.80. Using a combination of clinical and biomarker data, we developed a model that accurately predicts 2-year MAAE.
Liver function is impaired in metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease. Previous studies have demonstrated that oxygen availability in the tissue microenvironment affects adipose tissue and skeletal muscle function, but its hepatic effects remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the impact of oxygen levels on metabolic pathways in HepG2 cells. Nonlipid-loaded and lipid-loaded HepG2 cells were exposed to different physiological O2 levels (5% and 10%) or standard laboratory conditions (21% O2) for 24 h. Thereafter, we determined lipid content, gene expression of metabolic markers, glycogen content, and glucose release. Furthermore, mitochondrial respiration and glycolytic activity were assessed by measuring the oxygen consumption rate (OCR) and extracellular acidification rate (ECAR), respectively. Exposure to 5% O2 increased the expression of the gluconeogenic gene glucose-6-phosphatase catalytic subunit 1 (G6PC1) in both nonlipid-loaded and steatotic HepG2 cells compared with 21% O2 (P < 0.001). Furthermore, 5% O2 decreased the expression of lipogenic genes [sterol regulatory element binding transcription factor 1 (SREBF1), acetyl-CoA carboxylase beta (ACACB), and fatty acid synthase (FASN)] in nonlipid-loaded and/or steatotic cells (all P < 0.05), whereas genes involved in fatty acid oxidation [peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator 1-alpha (PPARGC1A), P < 0.001 and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARA), P = 0.038] were downregulated in steatotic cells. Low oxygen exposure increased glycogen content in nonlipid-loaded and steatotic cells (both P < 0.001) and reduced glucose release (P < 0.05). Finally, low oxygen exposure reduced OCR (P < 0.05) and increased glycolysis (P < 0.001) in both nonlipid-loaded and steatotic cells compared with 21%. In conclusion, our findings demonstrate that reduced oxygen availability in the microenvironment has marked effects on metabolic pathways in nonlipid-loaded and steatotic hepatocytes, inducing a metabolic shift to enhanced reliance on glucose as an energy source.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Oxygen availability in the tissue microenvironment affects adipose tissue and skeletal muscle function, but the effects of oxygen levels on hepatic metabolism are unclear. Low oxygen exposure altered expression of genes involved in glucose and lipid metabolism, increased glycogen content, decreased glucose release and oxygen consumption, and increased glycolytic rate compared with exposure to 21% O2 in both nonlipid-loaded and steatotic HepG2 cells, indicative of a shift to enhanced reliance on glucose as an energy source.
Rat adipose-derived stem cells (rADSCs) are widely used in bone tissue engineering (BTE). Low-intensity pulsed ultrasound (LIPUS) can modulate stem cell fate; however, its precise regulatory effects on ADSC lineage commitment remain unclear. This study aimed to elucidate how LIPUS regulates the osteogenic-adipogenic differentiation balance of rADSCs. We first performed cell proliferation and differentiation induction assays, which demonstrated that LIPUS significantly enhanced osteogenic differentiation while simultaneously suppressing adipogenesis, without affecting rADSC proliferation. Subsequently, transcriptome sequencing and protein-protein interaction analysis identified sterol regulatory element binding transcription factor 1 (Srebf1) as a pivotal regulatory node in LIPUS-modulated osteogenic-adipogenic differentiation. Rescue experiments further confirmed that LIPUS rescued the Srebf1 overexpression phenotype by restoring osteogenic potential and attenuating adipogenesis. Mechanistically, LIPUS downregulated SREBF1 expression and inhibited its nuclear translocation by inhibiting PI3K/AKT signaling, as evidenced by synergistic effects with the PI3K-specific inhibitor LY294002. Finally, a rat cranial defect model was established to validate the osteogenic potential of LIPUS in vivo. LIPUS significantly enhanced bone defect repair, even in the presence of Srebf1-overexpressing rADSCs. Collectively, our findings suggest that SREBF1, a canonical transcription factor in lipid metabolism, also functions as a mechanoresponsive regulator in cell fate determination. Furthermore, LIPUS promotes bone regeneration by shifting the osteogenic-adipogenic differentiation balance in rADSCs toward osteogenesis through suppression of PI3K/AKT-SREBF1 pathway, thereby providing a potential therapeutic strategy for BTE.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) progression involves the replacement of protective embryo-derived Kupffer cells (KCs) by inflammatory monocyte-derived macrophages (MoMFs), yet the regulatory mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we identify chitinase 3-like 1 (Chi3l1/YKL-40) as a critical metabolic regulator of hepatic macrophage fate. We observed high expression of Chi3l1 in both KCs and MoMFs during MASLD development. Genetic deletion of Chi3l1 specifically in KCs significantly exacerbated MASLD severity and metabolic dysfunction, whereas MoMF-specific Chi3l1 deletion showed minimal metabolic effects. Mechanistic studies revealed that this cell type-specific regulation arises from differential metabolic requirements: KCs display elevated glucose metabolism compared to MoMFs. Chi3l1 directly interacts with glucose to inhibit its cellular uptake, thereby selectively protecting glucose-dependent KCs from metabolic stress-induced cell death while having negligible effects on less glucose-dependent MoMFs. These findings uncover a novel Chi3l1-mediated metabolic checkpoint that preferentially maintains KCs populations through glucose metabolism modulation, providing important new insights into the pathogenesis of MASLD and potential therapeutic strategies targeting macrophage-specific metabolic pathways.© 2025, He et al.
The present study examined the impact of conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) on the differentiation and proliferation of bovine intramuscular preadipocyte (BIP) cells, specifically exploring the role of G protein-coupled receptor 41 (GPCR41). Cells were exposed to CLA at various concentrations ranging from 50 to 150 μmol/L. Flow cytometry revealed that treatment with 100 μmol/L CLA led to a significant increase in the proliferation rate. During differentiation, 100 and 150 μmol/L CLA markedly enhanced lipid droplet accumulation. Maximal cytoplasmic lipid content was observed when CLA was combined with insulin and dexamethasone. CLA treatment significantly enhanced the transcript abundance of the adipogenic transcription factors peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) and CCAAT-enhancer binding protein alpha (C/EBPα). Knockdown of GPCR41 via RNA interference in CLA-treated cells led to a significant suppression of GPCR41 expression, accompanied by decreased PPARγ mRNA levels and diminished cytoplasmic lipid droplet formation, indicating impaired differentiation. Taken together, these results show that CLA enhances both differentiation and proliferation of bovine intramuscular preadipocytes, possibly via activation of C/EBPα and PPARγ, with GPCR41 playing a critical role in mediating this adipogenic effect.© 2026. The Society for In Vitro Biology.
Cancer cachexia (CC) is a multifactorial metabolic syndrome characterized by systemic inflammation, muscle wasting, and adipose tissue depletion. Amaranth (Amaranthus caudatus L.), a pseudocereal rich in proteins, squalene, and tocotrienols, exhibits strong antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities. Enzymatic hydrolysis of amaranth proteins enhances bioavailability and physiological potency. Korean mint (Agastache rugosa) extract, abundant in flavonoids such as tilianin and acacetin, has been reported to suppress inflammatory and oxidative pathways. However, the combined effect of amaranth hydrolysate and Korean mint extract (AKE) on cancer cachexia has not been elucidated. CT26 tumor-bearing mice (six-week-old male BALB/c) were orally administered AKE (125 or 250 mg/kg/day) for 14 days. AKE attenuated cachexia-induced weight loss (3.6%-10.3%, p < 0.01) and preserved muscle (13.6%-15.8%, p < 0.01) and fat mass (36.0%-40.8%, p < 0.01). Grip strength was significantly improved. AKE suppressed serum pro-inflammatory cytokines and inhibited muscle protein degradation by downregulating muscle RING-finger protein-1 and muscle atrophy F-box expression. It also enhanced protein synthesis by activating the protein kinase B/mammalian target of rapamycin pathway. In adipose tissue, AKE reduced AMP-activated protein kinase browning while promoting adipogenesis via proliferator-activated receptor gamma, CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha, and Sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1 upregulation. These findings demonstrate that AKE mitigates cancer-induced muscle and fat loss by modulating inflammation, proteolysis, and metabolic remodeling, highlighting its potential as a multi-targeted nutritional strategy for managing cancer cachexia.© 2026 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) hold promise for spinal cord injury (SCI) repair, yet their limited neuronal conversion efficiency restricts therapeutic outcomes. Therefore, this study investigated the role of En2 in regulating the neuronal differentiation of BMSCs and its therapeutic potential in SCI. Here, we demonstrate that Engrailed 2 (En2) markedly enhances the neuronal differentiation of BMSCs and promotes functional recovery after SCI. En2 overexpression increases TUJ1⁺ and MAP2⁺ neuronal populations in vitro, while transcription factor prediction and experimental validation identify ASCL1 as a key downstream target. Silencing ASCL1 significantly impairs En2-induced neuronal differentiation and reduces nuclear β-catenin levels, indicating that En2 regulates BMSC neurogenesis through the ASCL1/β-catenin axis. In vivo, En2-overexpressing BMSCs delivered via HAMA hydrogel survive, differentiate into neurons, improve tissue preservation, and enhance locomotor recovery in rats with SCI, as confirmed by histology, immunofluorescence, BBB scoring, and CatWalk analysis. These findings reveal a previously unrecognized regulatory mechanism whereby En2 drives the neuronal commitment of BMSCs and highlight a promising gene-enhanced stem cell strategy for spinal cord injury repair.
Obesity is a major metabolic disorder characterized by excessive lipid accumulation and adipocyte differentiation. The mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 5 (MEK5) signaling pathway has been implicated in diverse cellular processes; however, its role in adipogenesis remains incompletely understood. In this study, we investigated the anti-adipogenic effects of BIX02189, a selective MEK5 inhibitor, using 3T3-L1 adipocytes, human adipose-derived stem cells (hASCs), and zebrafish models. Treatment with BIX02189 significantly reduced lipid accumulation and triglyceride content during adipocyte differentiation in a dose-dependent manner without marked cytotoxicity. BIX02189 effectively suppressed MEK5 phosphorylation and downregulated the expression of key adipogenic transcription factors, including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR-γ) and CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha (C/EBP-α). In addition, BIX02189 decreased the phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and STAT5, as well as the expression of lipogenic markers such as fatty acid synthase (FAS), perilipin A, and leptin. Conversely, BIX02189 enhanced AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylation and markedly reduced the protein and mRNA expression of acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC), a key enzyme involved in fatty acid synthesis. Similar anti-adipogenic effects were observed in hASCs. Furthermore, BIX02189 significantly attenuated lipid accumulation in a zebrafish obesity model without affecting body length or causing overt toxicity. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that pharmacological inhibition of MEK5 suppresses adipogenesis and lipid accumulation through regulation of the STAT3/STAT5-PPAR-γ axis and activation of AMPK signaling. These findings provide the first evidence that MEK5 inhibition exerts anti-adipogenic effects in adipocytes and zebrafish, highlighting the MEK5 signaling pathway as a previously unrecognized regulator of adipogenesis and lipid metabolism.
This study investigated how cytosine-cytosine-adenine-adenine-thymine (CCAAT)/enhancer-binding protein alpha (CEBPA) mutation sites and types affect the prognosis of acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). It specifically analysed the clinical and genetic features of AML patients harbouring CEBPA basic leucine zipper in-frame insertion/deletion (CEBPA bZIP-InDel-inf) mutations and identified prognostic factors in this subtype. Prognostic factors in CEBPA bZIP-InDel-inf subgroup were examined in depth. Overall survival (OS) and relapse-free survival (RFS) censoring models were built, informative censoring was adjusted using inverse probability of censoring weighting, and stabilized weights were applied in weighted Cox regression analyses. Risk scores for OS and RFS were then developed from multivariable results. Ninety-three patients with CEBPA mutation, 56 had CEBPA bZIP-InDel-inf. Compared with CEBPA bZIP-InDel-inf, CEBPA non-InDel had a worse prognosis. Within the bZIP region, bZIP-InDel-inf also showed better outcomes than other mutation types, especially in double-mutated cases. In weighted multivariate analysis, higher white blood cell count, blast cell count and M4/M5 phenotype independently predicted worse OS, while higher variant allele frequency (VAF), colony stimulating factor 3 receptor (CSF3R) mutation and lower haemoglobin predicted worse RFS. These variables enabled clear OS and RFS risk stratification. CEBPA bZIP-InDel-inf is a favourable CEBPA-mutated AML subtype. Further research is needed to elucidate the role of bZIP-domain-mutated proteins.© 2026 British Society for Haematology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42483825 is a review article
To determine lactate metabolism-associated biomarkers for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Based on NAFLD datasets from the gene expression omnibus database and lactate metabolism-related genes from GeneCards database, NAFLD-lactate metabolism hub genes (NAFLD-LM HGs) were screened via differential analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis and four machine learning algorithms. Their diagnostic efficacy was evaluated; molecular subtyping was performed; single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was subsequently conducted; and validation was finally conducted in NAFLD mouse models. We finally screened out eight NAFLD-LM HGs, namely CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha (CEBPA), flavin containing dimethylaniline monooxygenase 1 (FMO1), insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 1 (IGFBP1), krüppel-like factor 4 (KLF4), low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR), myelocytomatosis oncogene (MYC), nuclear receptor subfamily 4 group A member 2 (NR4A2), and thymidylate synthase (TYMS), with a diagnostic rate of 0.798 and an area under the curve of 0.948. These genes drove the molecular heterogeneity in NAFLD patients by modulating of metabolism and immune microenvironment. The results of scRNA-seq clarified that Th17 cells were identified as the most abundant annotated cell subset. Through animal experiments, five genes (LDLR, MYC, IGFBP1, NR4A2, and KLF4) were established to have potential protective effects against NAFLD. Five genes (LDLR, MYC, IGFBP1, NR4A2, KLF4) are identified as "protective factors", and their downregulation is associated with NAFLD progression. The remaining three genes (CEBPA, FMO1, TYMS) exhibit inconsistent expression patterns, suggesting bidirectional regulation.© 2026. The Author(s).
CEBPA, a GC rich gene encodes for transcription factor CCAAT/enhancer binding protein alpha (C/EBPα) which is essential for granulocyte development. Mutation(s) in CEBPA leads to block in myeloid cells differentiation which is characteristic of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). In addition, mutation(s) in CEBPA has been associated with prognosis in AML. Therefore, analysis of protein-coding sequence of CEBPA is critical in patients diagnosed with AML. This study aimed to optimize PCR amplification followed by Sanger sequencing of GC rich regions of CEBPA in AML patients using betaine which is a known PCR additive with relatively less inhibitory effect.PCR amplification using two sets of primer was performed with varying concentrations of betaine and MgCl2 at different annealing temperatures. Purified amplified PCR products were used for Sanger sequencing. PCR amplification of both 576 bp and 703 bp specific amplicons was achieved consistently with 1 M betaine and 2mM MgCl2. We found that increase in betaine inhibits PCR at higher annealing temperature which can be attributed to its ability to decrease the melting temperature of the DNA template. The optimized protocol did not interfere with the downstream applications such as PCR-product purification and Sanger sequencing in AML patients.These findings establish a potentially cost-effective and feasible method for sequencing protein-coding region of CEBPA in AML patients.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Follicular regulatory T (Tfr) cells maintain immune homeostasis by suppressing excessive germinal center (GC) responses. However, the molecular mechanisms governing Tfr differentiation remain incompletely understood. Here, we identify interleukin-6 (IL-6) as a key regulator of Tfr generation. IL-6/IL-6Rα signaling promotes the differentiation of regulatory T cells (Treg) into Tfr cells by inducing CCAAT/enhancer binding protein α (C/EBPα), which binds the Bcl6 and Cxcr5 promoters in Tfr cells. Treg-specific deletion of C/EBPα in mice impairs Tfr differentiation, resulting in hyperactive GC responses and exacerbated pathology in mouse models of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and HDM-induced allergy. In humans, in silico perturbation of CEBPA in Tregs disrupts the Tfr differentiation trajectory. Furthermore, CEBPA expression in Tregs, but not total CD4+ T cells, from patients with SLE negatively correlates with disease activity (SLEDAI). Thus, these findings establish the IL-6-C/EBPα axis as a critical mechanism driving Tfr differentiation to restrain pathogenic humoral immunity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42553052 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42527797
Gastric and gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinomas remain major causes of cancer- related mortality worldwide. Although perioperative chemotherapy, HER2-directed therapy, Claudin-18.2 (CLDN18.2)-targeted treatment, immune checkpoint inhibition, and anti-angiogenic therapy have improved outcomes in selected patients, clinically actionable targets are absent, heterogeneous, or lost in many high-grade, diffuse, poorly cohesive, signet-ring-cell micropapillary, hepatoid, and sarcomatoid carcinomas. Additional histopathology-assessable biomarkers that can support both molecular imaging and targeted therapy are of considerable clinical interest.Integrin αvβ6 is an epithelial-specific adhesion receptor that is minimally expressed in most normal adult tissues but becomes markedly upregulated during epithelial carcinogenesis, tissue remodeling, invasion, and activation of transforming growth factor-β signaling. This retrospective histopathological and immunohistochemical study evaluated integrin αvβ6 expression by immunohistochemistry in 53 formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded diagnostic specimens of untreated primary gastric or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma. Tumors were classified according to the WHO Classification of Tumors of the Digestive System, 5th edition. Membranous integrin αvβ6 staining intensity and the percentage of positive tumor cells were recorded, and an H-score was calculated. Expression patterns were compared descriptively with histological subtype, differentiation grade, HER2 status, and CLDN18.2 expression.Integrin αvβ6 immunoreactivity was detected in 49 of 53 tumors (92.5%), the clinically more relevant moderate to strong expression (H-score > 100) was present in 27 of 53 cases (50.9%), and strong expression was present in 13 of 53 cases (24.5%). Expression was not confined to conventional intestinal-type tumors; among carcinomas containing a signet-ring-cell component, 14 of 16 assessable cases (87.5%) showed integrin αvβ6 positivity, with 8 of 16 (50.0%) showing moderate to strong staining. By comparison, HER2 positivity was identified in 4 of 53 cases (7.5%; 4 of 52 assessable cases, 7.7%), and clinically relevant CLDN18.2 positivity, defined as moderate-to-strong membranous staining in at least 75% of tumor cells, was present in 7 of 38 assessable cases (18.4%).Integrin αvβ6 is frequently expressed in gastric and gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma, with moderate to strong expression in approximately half of all cases and in half of signet ring cell-containing tumors, including aggressive histological subtypes that often lack established therapeutic targets. The precise H-Score threshold for theranostic eligibility remains to be determined. The findings support integrin αvβ6 as a promising biomarker for histopathology-based screening, PET-based whole-body target assessment, and future targeted radionuclide therapy. Integration of immunohistochemistry and integrin αvβ6- targeted PET imaging will be essential to validate integrin αvβ6 as a candidate biomarker and to optimize radionuclide selection in gastric cancer, particularly with moderate to strong expression.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42504259 is a review article
Zolbetuximab plus platinum-fluoropyrimidine chemotherapy has emerged as an important first-line treatment option for patients with claudin 18.2 (CLDN18.2)-positive, HER2-negative advanced gastric or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma. However, pathological complete response after zolbetuximab-based induction therapy followed by conversion surgery has rarely been documented, particularly in patients with peritoneal dissemination and malignant ascites. A man in his early 50s with Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status 0 was referred to our hospital with scirrhous-type gastric cancer. Initial evaluation revealed initially unresectable advanced gastric cancer with peritoneal dissemination and cytologically confirmed malignant ascites. Gastric biopsy showed poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with signet-ring cell features. The tumor was HER2 IHC 1+, strongly CLDN18.2-positive by the VENTANA CLDN18 (43-14 A) RxDx Assay, with 90% of viable tumor cells showing 2+/3 + membranous staining, proficient mismatch repair, and PD-L1 CPS ≥ 10. First-line mFOLFOX6 plus zolbetuximab was administered every 2 weeks without dose reduction or treatment delay. After six cycles, computed tomography and esophagogastroduodenoscopy showed marked improvement. After nine cycles, conversion surgery with total gastrectomy, D2 lymph node dissection, and Roux-en-Y reconstruction was performed. Intraoperative lavage cytology was negative. Final pathology showed ypT0N0, 0/20 lymph nodes, and TRG 1a/Grade 3, consistent with pathological complete response. This case suggests that mFOLFOX6 plus zolbetuximab may induce deep radiological, endoscopic, cytological, and pathological responses and may enable R0 conversion surgery in carefully selected patients with CLDN18.2-positive initially unresectable advanced gastric cancer.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42493602 is a review article
China has approved the first CAR T-cell therapy that targets solid tumors, satricabtagene autoleucel (satri-cel), for patients with claudin 18.2-positive, HER2-negative gastric or gastro-esophageal junction cancer. The approval stems from a phase II trial that found the cells increased progression-free survival and overall survival. Scientists are excited about the decision but caution that more research is necessary to improve the effectiveness of CAR T cells against solid tumors.©2026 American Association for Cancer Research.
How allelic variants in lineage-regulating transcription factors drive diverging human developmental outcomes remains poorly understood. This is partly due to the lack of human model systems. Here, we used vessel organoids from human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) to resolve variant-specific functions of Forkhead Box F1 (FOXF1), a critical regulator of mesoderm and vascular development. Using three patient-derived hiPSC lines harboring unique FOXF1 variants, we show that heterozygous variants cause capillary maldevelopment of varying severity. Single-nucleus multiomic analysis revealed variant-specific mechanisms - a severe variant impairs differentiation of nascent mesoderm to lateral plate mesoderm and disrupts vascular progenitor specification, while moderate variants permit mesoderm differentiation but rewire vascular progenitor states and function. Restoration of wild-type FOXF1 via lipid nanoparticle-mediated mRNA delivery rescued capillary formation in a variant- and developmental-stage-dependent manner. Together, these findings demonstrate that different variants disrupt stage-specific FOXF1 functions in human mesoderm-to-vascular development, underscoring the importance of variant-specific therapeutic strategies. HIGHLIGHTS Human vessel organoids reveal variant-specific roles of FOXF1 in mesoderm patterning and capillary development. Severe FOXF1 variant c.253T>A (p.F85I) impairs nascent mesoderm-to-lateral plate mesoderm differentiation and disrupts vascular progenitor specification. 'Moderate' FOXF1 variants differentially rewire endothelial and mural progenitor cell states and function. Lipid nanoparticle-mediated FOXF1 mRNA delivery rescues capillary formation in a variant- and developmental-stage-dependent manner.
Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension (PAH) is a rare vascular disorder characterized by elevated pressure in pulmonary arteries, eventually leading to right ventricular failure. Approximately 50% of pediatric disease and 20% of adult disease can be linked to a genetic mutation, with nearly 70% of these cases involving mutations in the bone morphogenetic protein receptor type 2 (BMPR2) locus. Investigations using rodent models have made substantial advances in our understanding of BMPR2 signaling; however, limited data exist regarding the onset and course of PAH, and etiologies for phenotypic expression in these patients remain unknown. In this work, we describe the development of an ovine model of heritable PAH. Because homozygous disruption of BMPR2 is embryonic lethal, we developed heterozygous BMPR2 sheep by using a PAM-disrupting synonymous single stranded oligodeoxyribonucleotide alongside a single guide RNA and Cas9 mediated gene editing strategy. The resulting BMPR2(+/-) lambs demonstrated cardiac and pulmonary vascular pathology that are consistent with BMPR2 mutation-driven PAH observed in humans. Given the genetic and physiological similarities of BMPR2(+/-) sheep to humans with heritable PAH, this large animal model will serve as a vital platform for mechanistic molecular studies and will provide a much-needed pre-clinical model for extensive treatment evaluations.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301283
Cisplatin resistance is a major obstacle to effective chemotherapy in patients with cervical cancer and is associated with an immunosuppressive tumour microenvironment. Copper ions are essential trace elements that regulate redox and immune balance. However, the connections among copper ions, cisplatin resistance and immune regulation remain unclear. Here, higher serum copper levels correlated with increased pan-cancer mortality. Integrative transcriptomic and single-cell RNA sequencing analyses revealed lower copper-related transcriptional activity in CD8⁺ T cells from cervical cancer tissues. Multiomics analysis revealed that ATPase copper transporting alpha (ATP7A) expression was upregulated in cisplatin-resistant patients compared with sensitive patients and correlated with poor survival. ATP7A knockdown increased sensitivity to cisplatin and promoted cuproptosis, whereas ATP7A overexpression increased cisplatin resistance and impaired CD8⁺ T cells through copper ion efflux. Furthermore, excess copper ions directly bind to the lymphocyte-specific protein tyrosine kinase (LCK) activation loop (Tyr394), impairing T-cell receptor (TCR) signalling in CD8⁺ T cells. Sex-determining region Y-box 21 (SOX21) directly binds two conserved motifs within the ATP7A promoter (-372 bp and -245 bp) and enhances its transcriptional activity. These results revealed a SOX21/ATP7A/copper ion axis connecting copper ion efflux with immune suppression and cisplatin resistance. Targeting ATP7A or copper ion efflux may restore CD8⁺T-cell activity and enhance the efficacy of cisplatin for the treatment of cervical cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
WAP four‑disulfide core domain 2 (WFDC2) may serve a notable regulatory role in cervical cancer, which is the most prevalent tumor of the female reproductive system. The present study aimed to investigate the function of WFDC2 in cervical cancer through both in vitro and in vivo experiments. Specifically, the present study examined the influence of WFDC2 on the biological functions and the ERK/NF‑κB signaling in cervical cancer cells by creating WFDC2 knockdown and overexpression plasmids, which were transfected into HeLa cells. The expression levels of genes such as WFDC2, E‑cadherin, p38, ERK, p65 and IκBα were assessed using reverse transcription‑quantitative (RT‑q)PCR, while the protein levels of WFDC2, E‑cadherin, p38, ERK, p65, IκBα, phosphorylated (p)‑p38, p‑ERK, p‑NFκB p65 and p‑IκBα were analyzed via western blotting. To evaluate the impact of WFDC2 on the growth of cervical cancer tumors in vivo, BALB/c nude mice (age, 6‑8 weeks) were injected with HeLa cells that had a stable WFDC2 knockout. Immunohistochemistry was performed to assess the expression of Ki67 and epithelial‑mesenchymal transition (EMT) markers, including E‑cadherin, vimentin and N‑cadherin. Following WFDC2 knockdown, the expression of the epithelial marker E‑cadherin increased, while the levels of mesenchymal markers (N‑cadherin and vimentin) decreased, indicating a decrease in EMT, as well as diminished cell mobility and migration. When cells with overexpressed WFDC2 were treated with ERK inhibitor PD98059 and NF‑κB inhibitor PDTC, cell activity decreased, along with decreased invasion and migration. The animal experiments further showed that WFDC2 promoted the proliferation and invasion of cervical carcinoma cells. WFDC2 enhanced the migration, invasion and proliferation of cervical cancer cells via the ERK/NF‑κB signaling pathway.
The bone morphogenetic protein receptor type 2 (BMPR2) is expressed in multiple cell types, including endothelial cells, and mediates cell signaling via binding of transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) family ligands, contributing to balanced cell proliferation, apoptosis, and angiogenesis. BMPR2 N-glycosylation reportedly influences ligand binding. Here, we sought to develop a bottom-up nanoliquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method to obtain evidence of site-specific N-glycosylation of human BMPR2. To optimize the observation of all three predicted N-glycosylation sites, three protease combinations were tested. Trypsin-Glu-C N-glycopeptides spanning all three putative BMPR2 N-glycosylation sites (N29, N84, and N100) were observed. Analyses of N-glycosylation site occupancy revealed that sites N29 and N84 are highly occupied, while a minor but detectable proportion of BMPR2 is not glycosylated at site N100. Glycopeptide analyses revealed N-glycan compositions consistent with hybrid and complex glycoforms with abundant fucosylation and sialylation. The nLC-MS/MS method established here will facilitate the study of BMPR2 N-glycosylation and its function in homeostasis and disease. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD066494.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
To investigate the link between UVB-induced skin photodamage and cuproptosis, and identify key regulatory genes.Transcriptomic data from UVB-irradiated human skin (GSE41078) were obtained from GEO. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, followed by GO and KEGG enrichment, and WGCNA. Key regulators were defined by intersecting DEGs, cuproptosis-related genes (CRGs), and the WGCNA module most correlated with photodamage. Single-cell RNA-seq data (GSE289389) were used to assess ATP7A expression in keratinocytes and to infer cell-cell communication (CellChat), focusing on ECM and adhesion signaling. Hub genes were validated via qRT-PCR and Western blot in UVB-induced acute photodamage cells and mouse models.Examination of the GSE41078 dataset revealed 509 DEGs associated with photodamage. WGCNA identified the blue module as most strongly correlated with photodamage. Cross-referencing 978 core module genes with 55 CRGs and 509 DEGs identified a single hub gene, ATPase copper transporting alpha (ATP7A). Single-cell analysis confirmed significant ATP7A downregulation after UVB exposure (p = 1.83 × 10-5) and showed that ATP7A-high keratinocytes exhibited stronger integration with stromal cells via enhanced ECM-adhesion signaling (e.g. collagen, laminin), whereas ATP7A-low cells displayed weakened responsiveness to microenvironmental cues. Experimental confirmation suggested that both mRNA and protein expression of ATP7A were markedly diminished in photodamaged cellular and mouse models (P < 0.05), aligning with the computational predictions.This study suggests a potential association between ATP7A downregulation and UVB-induced photodamage with possible relevance to cuproptosis-related pathways. ATP7A downregulation is associated with reduced ECM-adhesion signaling interactions in keratinocytes, as indicated by CellChat. This analysis provides new clues to the mechanism of photodamage and suggests that ATP7A may be involved in the functional regulation of skin photodamage.© 2026 Li et al.
Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a progressive vascular syndrome characterized by aberrant signaling, severe pulmonary artery remodeling, and right ventricular (RV) failure, a major driver of morbidity and mortality. Dysregulation of the apelinergic pathway has been implicated in pulmonary vascular remodeling in PAH. Using a sugen-hypoxia rat model of PAH, we assessed the ability of a novel apelin analog, resistant to native peptidase degradation, to reverse the pathological hallmarks of PAH and RV dysfunction. Apelin analog therapy corrected the vascular lesions in the lungs and nearly normalized pulmonary arterial pressures. Early cardiorenal syndrome, RV dilation and dysfunction as well as RV cardiomyocyte and fibroblast activation induced by pressure overload, were also reversed by apelin analog treatment. Single-nucleus RNA sequencing of the lungs and RV revealed apelin-analog treatment activated several protective pathways, including rebalancing protective BMPR2 (bone morphogenetic protein receptor type 2) signaling to counteract excessive pathogenic TGFBR2 (transforming growth factor β receptor 2) activity in PAH. These findings highlight the therapeutic potential of exogenous apelin in reversing pulmonary vascular and cardiac pathologies in PAH and support further investigation to evaluate the clinical benefits of apelin analog treatment in patients with PAH and RV failure.
Seizure-like episodes are common in children, but many spells are not true epileptic seizures. Cardiac or pulmonary conditions such as pulmonary arterial hypertension can be the cause of the seizure-like episodes, particularly when the events persist despite administration of antiseizure medications.A 2-year-old male presented with recurrent seizure-like episodes that persisted despite administration of 2 antiseizure medications. Spells consisted of a sudden collapse followed by body jerking. Electroencephalogram and brain imaging were normal. Given the atypical features and lack of medication response, a cardiology evaluation was pursued. Echocardiography revealed severe pulmonary arterial hypertension with markedly elevated right heart pressures. Genetic testing confirmed the presence of a pathogenic bone morphogenetic protein receptor type 2 (BMPR2) gene. Despite initiation of sildenafil, bosentan, and prostacyclin therapy, the patient's condition worsened with recurrent syncopal and cyanotic episodes. He suffered a cardiac arrest requiring prolonged resuscitation and extracorporeal membrane oxygenation support, complicated by hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy and multiorgan failure. Following discussions with the family, care was redirected to comfort measures, and the patient died.This case illustrates how pulmonary arterial hypertension may mimic drug-resistant epilepsy. Rather than seizures, the patient's events were syncope resulting from decreased cerebral perfusion caused by low cardiac output. BMPR2 mutations are the most common genetic cause of heritable pulmonary arterial hypertension and are associated with earlier onset, more severe disease, and poor response to therapy compared to pulmonary arterial hypertension without BMPR2 mutations. To our knowledge, this case is the first report of BMPR2-related pulmonary arterial hypertension initially presenting as seizure-like episodes in a child. Children with atypical presentations should be evaluated for cardiopulmonary causes. Early recognition of pulmonary arterial hypertension is essential, as delayed diagnosis limits treatment opportunities.©2026 by the author(s); Creative Commons Attribution License (CC BY).
Background: Pulmonary arterial hypertension is a rare but life-threatening condition in children, with hereditary forms often being linked to mutations in genes such as bone morphogenetic protein receptor type 2 (BMPR2), caveolin 1 (CAV1), and potassium channel subfamily K member 3 (KCNK3). Among these, CAV1 mutations are associated with severe disease phenotypes, though cases resulting from de novo heterozygous CAV1 mutations with multi-system involvement remain rarely reported. The CAV1 mutation (c.424C > T, p.Q142X) disrupts caveolin-1 function, leading to dysregulated pulmonary vascular remodeling and multi-system abnormalities. Methods: This was a retrospective case study of a pediatric patient with hereditary PAH. The patient was followed at our hospital from initial presentation until death. Clinical data were collected from medical records, including physical examinations, laboratory tests, echocardiography, chest X-ray, computed tomography pulmonary angiography (CTPA), and genetic analysis. The patient was treated sequentially with various PAH-targeted medications. This report also includes a review of the relevant literature on CAV1-associated PAH. Results: A female aged 3 years and 11 months was diagnosed with hereditary PAH associated with a de novo heterozygous CAV1 mutation (c.424C > T, p.Q142X). Both parents underwent genetic testing and were negative for the mutation, confirming its de novo origin. Clinical manifestations included special facial features, congenital telangiectasia, cutis marmorata (marbled skin), congenital cataract, hereditary lipodystrophy, and severe PAH. The patient presented with progressive exercise intolerance, syncope, and worsening dyspnea over nine years. Echocardiography revealed pulmonary hypertension with an estimated pulmonary artery systolic pressure of 69-105 mmHg, right heart enlargement, right ventricular hypertrophy, and moderate tricuspid regurgitation. Blood and urine metabolic screenings were normal. A chest X-ray showed progressive enlargement of the cardiac silhouette and bulging of the pulmonary artery segment. CTPA demonstrated pulmonary hypertension, secondary right heart dysfunction, decompensated right ventricular function, and mosaic perfusion in both lungs, suggestive of small arterial branch occlusion. Right heart catheterization was declined by the parents. Thus, the diagnosis of PAH was established based on clinical, echocardiographic, CTPA, and genetic findings. The patient was hospitalized four times and lost to follow-up from 2017 to 2023. She received sequential treatment with digoxin, hydrochlorothiazide, tadalafil, ambrisentan, selexipag, and treprostinil. Despite these therapies, pulmonary artery pressure continued to rise with progressive clinical deterioration. The patient ultimately died at 13 years of age due to a pulmonary hypertensive crisis and multiple organ failure following a severe episode of gastroenteritis. Conclusions: Despite aggressive treatment with multiple targeted reduced pulmonary artery pressure drug therapies, managing hereditary PAH caused by CAV1 mutations in children remains a significant challenge, with a high mortality rate. Early genetic diagnosis, regular follow-up, and individualized treatment are crucial. It requires the joint efforts of patients, parents, and healthcare providers.
Zinc finger and BTB domain‑containing protein 16 (ZBTB16) plays diverse roles in a number of different cancer types, but its function and mechanism in esophageal cancer remain ambiguous. The present study was, to the best of our knowledge, the first demonstration that ZBTB16 was highly expressed in esophageal cancer tissues and cell lines. Knockdown of ZBTB16 significantly inhibited the proliferation and migration of esophageal cancer cells. Furthermore, ZBTB16 silencing increased the rate of cell death in esophageal cancer cells and induced mitochondrial membrane potential loss, intracellular copper accumulation and elevated oxidative stress. Mechanistically, knockdown of ZBTB16 downregulated the expression of ATPase copper‑transporting α and ATPase copper‑transporting β (ATP7B), while upregulating copper uptake protein 1 and ferredoxin. The present study further demonstrated that ZBTB16 knockdown increased the production of reactive oxygen species, which was partially rescued by ATP7B overexpression. In a mouse xenograft model of esophageal cancer, ZBTB16 knockdown markedly suppressed tumor growth, significantly reduced tumor weight and volume and notably altered the expression of cuproptosis‑related proteins in vivo. Summarily, ZBTB16 promoted the development of esophageal cancer by regulating copper homeostasis and oxidative stress. Therefore, ZBTB16 may represent a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of esophageal cancer.
Patients with nephronophthisis caused by nephrocystin 3 (NPHP3) variants rapidly progress to end-stage kidney disease. However, existing Nphp3 mouse models fail to fully recapitulate the characteristics of this disease. We generated a renal tubule-specific Nphp3 knockout mouse model that more accurately mirrors the human disease course. The mouse model was first validated by confirming the loss of Nphp3 protein expression in renal tubules. Comprehensive phenotypic analyses were then performed to assess both renal and extrarenal manifestations. The origin of renal cysts was investigated, and the underlying mechanisms were further validated. We successfully generated a renal tubule-specific Nphp3 knockout mouse model (Cdh16-Cre; Nphp3flox/flox). These mice exhibited a markedly shortened lifespan (5-8 weeks) and developed key features of infantile nephronophthisis, including early-onset renal cysts originating from distal tubules and collecting ducts, progressive interstitial fibrosis that was evident by postnatal week 2, a rapid decline in kidney function, and increased urinary protein levels. Importantly, treatment with the vasopressin V2 receptor antagonist tolvaptan or the mitogen-activated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MEK) inhibitor 2-(2-chloro-4-iodoanilino)-N-(cyclopropylmethoxy)-3,4-difluorobenzamide (CI-1040) significantly attenuated cyst growth and improved kidney morphology, confirming shared pathogenic pathways with other Nphp3 models. We established a renal tubule-specific Nphp3 knockout mouse model that accurately recapitulates the aggressive infantile form of nephronophthisis characterized by early cystogenesis, progressive fibrosis, and a shortened lifespan, and is ideal for evaluating novel interventions against this currently untreatable ciliopathy.
Skeletal dysplasias are a common cause of short stature and are often linked with multisystemic features. The Hedgehog signaling pathway plays a vital role in skeletal development and is regulated by the protein kinase domain-containing cytoplasmic (PKDCC) gene, also known as vertebrate lonesome kinase. Pathogenic variants in the PKDCC gene have been reported in very few patients worldwide and are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. We report 2 siblings-a 6-year-old girl and a 3-year-old boy-who present with rhizomelic short stature, facial dysmorphism, low-set ears, and umbilical hernia. The girl has a history of cardiac septal defects and camptodactyly, while her younger brother shows no systemic complications. A comprehensive laboratory panel was normal in both siblings, and whole exome sequencing revealed a homozygous splice acceptor variant of the PKDCC gene on chromosome 2:g.42280377A>T, (NM_138370.3, c.640-2A>T), leading to a diagnosis of rhizomelic limb shortening with dysmorphic features. To our knowledge, this is the first report of siblings from India with a PKDCC pathogenic variant, underscoring the importance of genetic screening in cases of short stature accompanied by dysmorphism and dysplasia.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society.
Understanding the genetic basis of resilience in marine organisms is critical for conservation and management, particularly in the face of escalating environmental stress and disease outbreaks. The bay scallop Argopecten irradians is a commercially and recreationally important shellfish species found in estuarine and coastal environments of the United States from New England to the Gulf of Mexico. In New York, adult bay scallop populations have been decimated every summer since 2019 leading to the collapse of their fishery. These mortality events were associated with annual outbreaks of an undescribed apicomplexan parasite recently named Bay Scallop Marosporida (BSM) that disrupts scallop kidneys.This study investigates host-pathogen interactions and assesses changes in population structure during BSM-associated mortality events. The research compared wild and aquacultured scallops used for stock enhancement in New York, revealing significant change in population structures throughout the mortality outbreak. The results underscore the selective pressures exerted by BSM infection and environmental stressors, as evidenced by shifts in genetic divergence and allele frequencies particularly in genes associated with kidney function, stress and infection response. Through a detailed genomic and population genetic approach, this research represents a unique case study highlighting the impact of disease on marine biodiversity and advances our understanding of the impact of summer mortality events on the scallop population in NY.This study highlights changes in the genomic structure of bay scallops during a BSM-associated mortality event. Identified mutations (such as the one in the nephrocystin-3-like gene) represent prime candidates for specific targeted investigations to link genotypes to phenotypes. By integrating genomic and epidemiological data, the research provides a basis for understanding the impact of disease on scallop biodiversity. These findings may help guide conservation strategies for sustainable fisheries in the face of environmental change and disease outbreaks.© 2025. The Author(s).
Extracellular vesicles are easily accessible in various biofluids and allow the assessment of disease-related changes in the proteome. This has made them a promising target for biomarker studies, especially in the field of neurodegeneration where access to diseased tissue is very limited. Genetic variants in the LRRK2 gene have been linked to both familial and sporadic forms of Parkinson's disease. With LRRK2 inhibitors entering clinical trials, there is an unmet need for biomarkers that reflect LRRK2-specific pathology and target engagement.In this study, we used induced pluripotent stem cells derived from a patient with Parkinson's disease carrying the LRRK2 G2019S mutation and an isogenic gene-corrected control to generate human dopaminergic neurons. We isolated extracellular vesicles and neuronal cell lysates and characterized their proteomic signature using data-independent acquisition proteomics. Then, we performed differential expression analysis to identify dysregulated proteins in the mutated line. We used Metascape and gene ontology enrichment analysis on the dysregulated proteomes to identify changes in associated functional networks.We identified 595 significantly differentially regulated proteins in extracellular vesicles and 3,205 in cell lysates. We visualized functionally relevant protein-protein interaction networks and identified key regulators within the dysregulated proteomes. Using gene ontology, we found a close association with biological processes relevant to neurodegeneration and Parkinson's disease. Finally, we focused on proteins that were dysregulated in both the extracellular and cellular proteomes. We provide a list of ten biomarker candidates that are functionally relevant to neurodegeneration and linked to LRRK2-associated pathology, for example, the sonic hedgehog signaling molecule, a protein that has tightly been linked to LRRK2-related disruption of cilia function.In conclusion, we characterized the cellular and extracellular proteome of dopaminergic neurons carrying the LRRK2 G2019S mutation and proposed an experimentally based list of biomarker candidates for future studies.Copyright © 2024 Knab, Guaitoli, Jarboui, von Zweydorf, Isik, Klose, Rajkumar, Gasser and Gloeckner.
Skipped: PubMed ID 38860479 is a review article
Sonic hedgehog signaling molecule (SHH) is a key molecule in the cilia-mediated signaling pathway and a critical morphogen in embryogenesis. The association between loss-of-function variants of SHH and holoprosencephaly is well established. In mice experiments, reduced or increased signaling of SHH have been shown to be associated with narrowing or excessive expansion of the facial midline, respectively. Herein, we report two unrelated patients with de novo truncating variants of SHH presenting with hypertelorism rather than hypotelorism. The first patient was a 13-year-old girl. Her facial features included hypertelorism, strabismus, telecanthus, malocclusion, frontal bossing, and wide widow's peak. She had borderline developmental delay and agenesis of the corpus callosum. She had a nonsense variant of SHH: Chr7(GRCh38):g.155802987C > T, NM_000193.4:c.1302G > A, p.(Trp434*). The second patient was a 25-year-old girl. Her facial features included hypertelorism and wide widow's peak. She had developmental delay and agenesis of the corpus callosum. She had a frameshift variant of SHH: Chr7(GRCh38):g.155803072_155803074delCGGinsT, NM_000193.4:c.1215_1217delCCGinsA, p.(Asp405Glufs*92). The hypertelorism phenotype contrasts sharply with the prototypical hypotelorism-holoprosencephaly phenotype associated with loss-of-function of SHH. We concluded that a subset of truncating variants of SHH could be associated with hypertelorism rather than hypotelorism.© 2024 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Rhizomelic limb shortening with dysmorphic features (RLSDF) has already been a disorder of the rare autosomal recessive skeletal dysplasia, just having a few reported cases. RLSDF is caused by protein kinase domain containing, cytoplasmic(PKDCC)gene variants. In this study, we describe the clinical features and potential RLSDF molecular etiology in a fetus from China.Genomic DNA (gDNA) extracted from the fetal muscle tissue and parents' peripheral blood was subjected to chromosomal microarray analysis (CMA) and trio-based whole exome sequencing (Trio-WES). The candidate pathogenic variants were verified by using Sanger sequencing.Trio-WES identified two compound heterozygous variants in PKDCC, c.346delC (p.Pro117Argfs*113) and c.994G > T (p.Glu332Ter), inherited from the father and mother, respectively. Both variants are classified as pathogenic according to American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics guidelines.We reported the first prenatal case of RLSDF caused by PKDCC in the Chinese population. Our findings extended the variation spectrum of PKDCC and emphasized the necessity of WES for the early diagnosis of skeletal dysplasia and other ultrasound structural abnormalities in fetuses.© 2023. BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature.
Vertebrate lonesome kinase (VLK) is the only known secreted tyrosine kinase and responsible for the phosphorylation of a broad range of secretory pathway-resident and extracellular matrix proteins. However, its cell-type specific functions in vivo are still largely unknown. Therefore, we generated mice lacking the VLK gene (protein kinase domain containing, cytoplasmic (Pkdcc)) in mesenchymal cells. Most of the homozygous mice died shortly after birth, most likely as a consequence of their lung abnormalities and consequent respiratory failure. E18.5 embryonic lungs showed a reduction of alveolar type II cells, smaller bronchi, and an increased lung tissue density. Global mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics identified 97 proteins with significantly and at least 1.5-fold differential abundance between genotypes. Twenty-five of these had been assigned to the extracellular region and 15 to the mouse matrisome. Specifically, fibromodulin and matrilin-4, which are involved in extracellular matrix organization, were significantly more abundant in lungs from Pkdcc knockout embryos. These results support a role for mesenchyme-derived VLK in lung development through regulation of matrix dynamics and the resulting modulation of alveolar epithelial cell differentiation.© 2023. The Author(s).
Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) and chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) are human autoimmune peripheral neuropathy. Besides humoral immunity, cellular immunity is also believed to contribute to these pathologies, especially CIDP. Sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1 (S1PR1) regulates the maturation, migration, and trafficking of lymphocytes. As of date, the therapeutic effect of sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor (S1PR) agonists on patients with GBS or CIDP remains unclear.To evaluate the effect of siponimod, an agonist of S1PR1 and S1PR5, on experimental autoimmune neuritis (EAN), an animal model of autoimmune peripheral neuropathy, was used. Lewis rats were immunized with 125 μg of synthetic peptide from bovine P2 protein. Rats in the siponimod group were orally administered 1.0 mg/kg siponimod and those in the EAN group were administrated the vehicle on days 5-27 post-immunization (p.i.) daily. The symptom severity was recorded daily. The changes in the expression of cytokines and transcription factors in the lymph nodes and cauda equina (CE) which correlate with the pathogenesis of EAN and recovery of injured nerve were measured using reverse transcription quantitative PCR. Histological study of CE was also performed.Flaccid paralysis developed on day 11 p.i. in both groups. Siponimod relieved the symptom severity and decreased the expression of interferon-gamma and IL-10 mRNAs in lymph nodes and CE compared with that in the EAN group. The expression of Jun proto-oncogene (c-Jun) mRNA increased from the peak to the recovery phase and that of Sonic hedgehog signaling molecule (Shh) and Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (Gdnf) increased prior to increase in c-Jun with no difference observed between the two groups. Histologically, siponimod also reduced demyelinating lesions and inflammatory cell invasion in CE.Siponimod has a potential to ameliorate EAN. Shh and Gdnf, as well as C-Jun played a significant role during the recovery of injured nerves.© 2023. The Author(s).
Inflammation causes bone loss by dysregulating the differentiation and functions of osteoclasts, osteoblasts, and osteocytes. This process can be modeled by the expression of constitutively activated IKK2 (IKK2ca), a strategy that we leveraged to investigate the mechanisms through which inflammation negatively affects cells of the osteoblast/osteocyte lineage. We found that mice expressing IKK2ca in osteoblasts exhibit significant bone loss. Mechanistically, IKK2ca downregulates the expression of osteoblast genes while inducing the differentiation of bone-forming osteoblasts into catabolic osteocytes like cells, expressing high levels of Podoplanin, Fgf23, Dkk1 and Sclerostin. We term these atypical inflammatory osteocyte-like cells (aiOCy-L cells) as they highly express inflammatory and senescence markers and promote osteoclast differentiation as well. Additional data show that inflammation induces abnormal differentiation of OB into aiOCy-L cells through upregulating mTOR and glycolysis. In summary, we uncovered a mechanism by which inflammation alters osteoblast differentiation and fate decision via the IKK2/mTOR/glycolysis axis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma (OSCC) is a common epithelial malignancy with a persistently poor prognosis, largely influenced by regional lymph node status. Current treatment of OSCC relies on the TNM staging system, which does not include the molecular characteristics of the neoplasm. This study aimed to evaluate lymph node morphologic patterns and molecular markers of lymphangiogenesis to support biologically informed pathologic risk stratification.A retrospective cohort study was conducted on 128 cases and divided into two groups: Group I (clinically and histopathologically negative lymph nodes) and Group II (clinically negative but histopathologically positive lymph nodes). Immunohistochemical assessments of lymphangiogenesis in primary tumor were performed using VEGF-C and D2-40. Morphological patterns in lymph nodes were evaluated, and statistical analyses were conducted to correlate these patterns with clinicopathologic parameters.Significant differences (p<0.001) in lymph node morphology were observed between groups, with higher ILVD values in Group II. One-way ANOVA revealed significant differences between the mean VEGF-C categories and D2-40 immunoexpressions. ROC curve analysis indicated that D2-40 had higher sensitivity and specificity compared to VEGF-C. Key morphological changes in lymph nodes were identified as features suggestive of pre-metastatic changes.The findings suggest that lymph node morphologic patterns reflect biologic and immunologic alterations associated with tumor lymphangiogenesis in clinically node-negative OSCC. Integration of lymph node histomorphology with molecular markers may provide complementary pathologic information for risk stratification and prognostic assessment, pending validation in prospective studies.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is characterized by persistent synovial inflammation in which fibroblast-like synoviocytes (RA-FLS) and B cells interact within a potentially genotoxic microenvironment. This study investigates how naive B cells respond to cytotoxic stress when supported by RA-FLS in a co-culture model, using viability assays, time resolved γ-H2AX MFI, RT-qPCR of DNA damage response and differentiation genes, and flow cytometric analysis of subsets and surface markers. Naive B cells exhibited greater loss of viability than RA-FLS, and time-resolved γ-H2AX MFI showed an earlier signal peak and decline in naive B cells versus prolonged retention in RA-FLS (0-24h post-treatment); these reflect overall damage-response dynamics rather than direct DSB repair. Importantly, γ-H2AX levels indicate DNA damage but do not directly quantify DNA break repair. Transcriptional profiling showed selective induction of ATM, APEX1, RAD50, BAX, and BCL6 following treatment, consistent with engagement of a focused DNA damage response program. Prolonged co-culture was associated with the expansion of B cell enriched compartments derived from naïve B cells, and with increased expression of stromal markers CD90 and podoplanin on both B cells and RA-FLS, while IL-10 secretion was reduced under cytotoxic conditions. Together, these findings define differential stress responses and phenotypic adaptations of B cells and RA-FLS within an inflammatory co-culture system and suggest that genotoxic stress may contribute to remodeling of immune-stromal interactions in the rheumatoid synovium.Copyright © 2026 Bruci, Lowin, Fritz, Wolf and Pongratz.
Podocyte adhesion to the glomerular basement membrane is essential for kidney function, and adhesion failure leads to podocyte loss and glomerulosclerosis. However, how initial adhesion impairment progresses to irreversible podocyte dysfunction remains poorly understood. Here, we investigated early molecular changes following adhesion impairment to identify new therapeutic targets.We performed single-cell RNA sequencing on kidneys from doxycycline-inducible podocyte-specific Tln1 knockout (Tln1-cKO) mice, an established model of impaired focal adhesion, before overt kidney dysfunction. To test the function of a key downregulated gene, we generated podocyte-specific Nsf knockout (Nsf-cKO) mice and analyzed them using biochemical, cell biological, and live-cell imaging approaches. We also examined publicly available human kidney single-nucleus RNA sequencing datasets.Nsf was among the most significantly downregulated genes in Tln1-cKO podocytes. NSF (N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor) is an AAA+ ATPase essential for vesicular trafficking through disassembly of SNARE complexes. Nuclear Yes-associated protein (YAP) was reduced in Tln1-cKO podocytes, and pharmacologic inhibition of TEA domain transcription factor (TEAD) or soft-substrate culture lowered NSF expression, indicating that YAP/TEAD signaling links mechanotransduction to Nsf expression. Podocyte-specific Nsf deletion caused massive proteinuria, podocyte loss, glomerulosclerosis, and death by 3 weeks. NsfcKO podocytes showed impaired spreading and defective integrin regulation: integrin α3 maturation was blocked, whereas integrin β1 underwent ER stress-induced proteasomal degradation. Trafficking of nephrin and podoplanin was also affected. Live-cell imaging showed markedly delayed ER-to-Golgi trafficking in Nsf-cKO podocytes (90-120 minutes versus 15 minutes in controls). In human datasets, NSF expression was reduced in podocytes from patients with diabetic and hypertensive chronic kidney disease.Adhesion impairment suppresses NSF through reduced YAP/TEAD activity, disrupting ER-to-Golgi trafficking and integrin maturation, and generating a feed-forward cascade of progressive adhesion failure. NSF-mediated trafficking is essential for podocyte homeostasis and a potential therapeutic target in proteinuric kidney diseases.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Actinic cheilitis is a precursor to lip squamous cell carcinoma. How ultraviolet-induced stromal degeneration relates to invasion-related extracellular matrix markers remains unclear. This study investigated basophilic degeneration of collagen, solar elastosis, fibronectin, tenascin-C, and podoplanin in both lesions.Specimens of actinic cheilitis (n = 28) and lip squamous cell carcinoma (n = 28) were analyzed. Collagen degeneration, elastosis, and the immunoexpression of fibronectin, tenascin-C, and podoplanin were quantified using digital image analysis. Associations were evaluated using mixed-effects models.Collagen degeneration and elastosis areas were significantly greater in actinic cheilitis (p < 0.001). Lip squamous cell carcinoma exhibited higher stromal fibronectin and podoplanin (p < 0.001), whereas epithelial tenascin-C was higher in actinic cheilitis (p < 0.001). Notably, in both lesions, areas with pronounced collagen degeneration and elastosis were inversely associated with the expression of these invasion-related proteins.Actinic cheilitis features marked actinic stromal degeneration, whereas lip squamous cell carcinoma exhibits tumor-driven extracellular matrix remodeling with increased invasion-related markers. These findings highlight distinct stromal microenvironment profiles associated with pre-neoplastic and neoplastic lip lesions.© 2026 The Author(s). Oral Diseases published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
To identify, map, and characterize a posterior ocular lymphatic outflow (POLO) pathway from the suprachoroidal space and assess its drainage dynamics and cervical nodal uptake using time-resolved imaging.Albumin-based tracers (galbumin and CF770/BSA) were delivered into the suprachoroidal space of adult mice under general anesthesia. In vivo imaging included magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and near-infrared fluorescence imaging using confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscopy (cSLO) of the ocular surface and orbital soft tissues. Ex vivo assessments included in situ head and neck fluorescence imaging 20 minutes after tracer injection and hyperspectral microscopy of ocular and orbital sections. Lymphatic identity was assessed by immunofluorescence staining (podoplanin and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-3 [VEGFR-3]) in Prox1-tdTomato reporter mice.Following suprachoroidal tracer injection, in vivo MRI and cSLO fluorescence imaging showed preferential drainage toward the nasal orbit. Hyperspectral microscopy showed higher tracer signal in the ipsilateral sclera and orbit than contralateral tissues, and in situ fluorescence imaging detected near-infrared tracer in the ipsilateral cervical lymph node at 20 minutes. Confocal microscopy of the choroid showed co-localization of podoplanin with VEGFR-3 and Prox1 and demonstrated tracer within podoplanin-positive choroidal lymphatic vessels, consistent with a posterior drainage route from the suprachoroidal space to cervical lymph nodes.This study identifies a previously unrecognized POLO pathway and expands ocular drainage physiology beyond the anterior segment to include a posterior lymphatic route through choroidal lymphatic vessels.Identification of a POLO pathway reveals a measurable route for fluid clearance, intraocular pressure regulation, and drug delivery, offering new strategies to preserve vision in retinal and posterior segment diseases characterized by fluid accumulation, impaired clearance, or inflammation.
Angiosarcoma (AS) is a rare malignant tumor of vascular endothelial origin, accounting for approximately 1% of soft tissue sarcomas. Primary adrenal AS represents an exceptionally rare entity, with very limited cases reported in the literature, resulting in significant diagnostic and therapeutic challenges.A 67-year-old male with arterial hypertension presented with an incidentally detected left adrenal mass on abdominal ultrasound. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a large heterogeneous lesion measuring up to 90 mm × 82 mm × 88 mm, with hemorrhagic components and progressive enlargement, raising suspicion for an aggressive malignancy. Endocrine workup was unremarkable. The patient underwent robotic left adrenalectomy with complete (R0) resection. Histological examination showed a malignant proliferation of pleomorphic epithelioid cells; immunohistochemistry confirmed positivity for CD31, CD34, and podoplanin, with a Ki-67 index of ~80%, establishing the diagnosis of adrenal AS. No adjuvant therapy was administered. At 4-month follow-up, the patient was alive and disease-free. A systematic review of the PubMed database identified 51 additional published cases, totaling 52 patients. The disease predominantly affects males (67%), mean age 58 years. Overall survival was 41% and disease-free rate 33% at 36 months; tumor size <6 cm was associated with improved survival (P=0.04).Primary adrenal AS is an aggressive tumor with poor prognosis. Complete surgical resection is the cornerstone of treatment. However, since available evidence is limited, no definitive prognostic factors can be established.© AME Publishing Company.
During neuroinflammation, CD11c+CD11b+ myeloid cells accumulate at the cribriform plate, a key cerebrospinal fluid and antigen outflow site in mice. At this site, podoplanin-expressing cells, including lymphatic vessels and meningeal layers, expand to create a distinct drainage microenvironment. In this study, we sought to characterize myeloid cells, which populate this region, using a mouse model of neuroinflammation, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Utilizing a combination of immunohistochemistry, flow cytometry, and scRNAseq, we report that macrophages and dendritic cells from this region display unique expressional signatures related to tolerance, cell death, and reduced inflammatory profile. Together, this data supports that myeloid retention at the cribriform plate and olfactory bulb meninges promotes a local immunosuppressive environment.© 2026, Laaker et al.
Oxygen-sensing and the hypoxia stress response play vital roles in physiological homeostasis. Subterranean species that are naturally adapted to hypoxia provide powerful tools for understanding the mechanisms of hypoxia tolerance. The plateau zokor Eospalax baileyi and the Gansu zokor Eospalax cansus, which inhabit the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau of China, and the blind mole rat Spalax galili, which lives in Israel, are all subterranean rodents adapted to hypoxic environments. Here, we showed that the T480S variant of the hypoxia-inducible factor-2ɑ (encoded by the endothelial PAS domain protein 1 gene, Epas1) in Chinese zokors stabilized EPAS1 by reducing phosphorylation, thereby regulating fibrosis and contributing to hypoxia adaptation on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau. In Israeli blind mole rats, variants at positions -2023/-1810 in the Epas1 regulatory region distinguish two abutting populations undergoing incipient sympatric speciation by altering the binding of cMYB and hepatocyte nuclear factor 4 gamma, linking transcriptional activity to the interferon mRNA transcription. This finding reveals an adaptive regulation of metabolism and O2 homeostasis by the Epas1 gene in adaptation to diverse habitats, providing evidence for both divergent and convergent functional molecular evolution.© 2026 Cao et al.
Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a progressive cardiopulmonary disorder characterized by vascular remodeling, abnormal vasoconstriction of small lung arteries, and right heart failure. Hypoxia causes vascular damage, leading to vessel stenosis or occlusion by aberrant endothelial cells, hypertrophy of the tunica media, and thrombus formation. But the precise molecular mechanisms underlying the pathology of PH have been uncertain.To investigate the pathogenic role of Myl (myosin light chain) 9/12 in PH, we utilized the Sugen/hypoxia mouse model, generated by administration of the VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor) receptor inhibitor SU5416 under hypoxic conditions (10% O2). Lung tissues of patients with PH and human lung microvascular endothelial cells were used to examine their endothelial changes. Platelet-specific Myl9-deficient mice were generated to determine the contribution of platelet-derived Myl9 to the development of PH. The therapeutic efficacy of the anti-Myl9/12 antibody was evaluated by hemodynamics, histological analyses, and single-cell RNA sequencing. Furthermore, serum MYL9, MYL12A, and MYL12B levels were measured in patients with PH and analyzed for clinical correlation.We identified microthrombi containing Myl9/12 in both patients with PH and the PH mouse model. Platelet-derived Myl9 partially contributed to PH development by promoting cellular infiltration. Furthermore, hypoxia upregulated the expression of Myl9/12 through EPAS1 (endothelial PAS domain protein 1) in proliferated lung vascular endothelial cells and induced the release of Myl9/12 into the extracellular space. Anti-Myl9/12 antibody treatment attenuated PH in the mouse model by reducing microthrombus formation, inflammatory cell infiltration, tissue hypoxia, and vascular remodeling. The established PH in Sugen/hypoxia mice was also attenuated by the treatment with anti-Myl9/12 antibody. Moreover, serum levels of Myl9 but not MYL12A or MYL12B levels reflected the severity of PH in patients.These findings reveal that Myl9/12 play a pathogenic role in developing vascular lesions of PH and could be a new therapeutic target for PH.
A recent study reported that endothelial PAS domain protein 1 (EPAS1; hypoxia-inducible factor 2α) acts downstream of PGC-1α to regulate the slow-twitch muscle fiber program in mice, yet its role in human physiology and exercise adaptation remains unclear. The aim of this study was threefold: (1) to investigate EPAS1 gene expression in human skeletal muscle and its association with muscle fiber composition and the expression of endurance-related genes; (2) to determine how EPAS1 expression responds to aerobic training; and (3) to examine whether EPAS1 genetic variation is linked to aerobic capacity, hemoglobin, and athletic status. The study involved 1234 subjects, including 943 athletes and 291 untrained individuals. EPAS1 gene expression was significantly higher in endurance athletes compared with power athletes (p = 0.011) and was positively associated with the proportion of slow-twitch muscle fibers in the vastus lateralis of untrained subjects (p = 0.0008) and athletes (p = 0.0033). EPAS1 expression was higher in females (p = 0.0028) and negatively associated with smoking status (p = 0.0007). Moreover, EPAS1 expression showed positive association with endurance-related genes, including ANGPT2, CKM, CPT1B, EPOR, FNDC5, HIF1A, KDR, MYBPC3, NFATC4, NOS3, PPARA, PPARD, PPARGC1A, UCP2, and VEGFA. Analysis of 24 publicly available skeletal muscle transcriptomic datasets demonstrated that EPAS1 expression increased significantly (meta-analysis p = 9.2 × 10-5) following aerobic training. Finally, genetically predicted higher EPAS1 expression (i.e., carriage of the EPAS1 rs6756667 A allele) was positively associated with endurance athlete status in both sexes (p = 0.0004) and with VO₂max (p = 0.046) and hemoglobin (p = 0.041) in male athletes. These findings potentially identify EPAS1 as an important genetic factor associated with muscle fiber composition, endurance-related phenotypes, and adaptation to aerobic training.© 2026 The Author(s). Physiological Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Physiological Society and the American Physiological Society.
In this study, we investigate the mechanisms by which ischemia-free liver transplantation (IFLT) mitigates ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) and identify key therapeutic targets. Clinical data from 200 patients were collected to evaluate perioperative recovery and overall outcomes. Liver tissues were obtained from donors at the preprocurement, end-of-preservation, and postperfusion stages. Gene expression profiles were examined using single-cell transcriptomic analysis. Phenotypic and functional characteristics were evaluated using flow cytometry, and protein expression was assessed using immunofluorescence, immunohistochemistry, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Animal models of IRI were employed to examine the effects of HIF-2α inhibition in vivo. PT-2385 was administered to inhibit HIF-2α, and 100 µg of anti-mouse CD8α monoclonal antibody was injected to deplete CD8+ T cells. Patients in the IFLT group exhibited a lower incidence of early allograft dysfunction and a higher 1-yr survival rate. Differential gene expression analysis of IRI-related genes in 14 paired liver samples from conventional liver transplantation revealed significant upregulation of HIF-2α in postreperfusion tissues, predominantly expressed in CD69+CD103-CD8+ T cells. The up-regulated genes were enriched in TNF-related signaling pathways. Inhibition of HIF-2α reduced the number of CD69+CD103-CD8+ T cells and alleviated liver injury in vivo. In IFLT, genes in this pathway were not significantly upregulated. Under HIF-2α stimulation, CD69+CD103-CD8+ T cells exacerbate organ and tissue injury through TNF-related signaling. In IFLT, the absence of significant pathway upregulation suggests effective prevention of IRI.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
BACKGROUND: Mitral stenosis (MS) causes chronic pressure overload and secondary pulmonary hypertension, which are associated with activation of hypoxia-inducible pathways. This study investigated the circulating levels of hypoxia-inducible factor-2α (Endothelial PAS domain protein 1-EPAS1) in patients with MS and their relationship with disease severity. METHODS: This prospective study included 69 patients diagnosed with rheumatic MS and an equal number of age- and sex-matched healthy individuals. Hypoxia-inducible factor-2α (HIF-2α) levels were assessed using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) along with conventional biomarkers, and all patients underwent echocardiographic assessments. Statistical comparisons were performed using appropriate parametric or non-parametric tests, and relationships were evaluated using Spearman’s rank correlation coefficients. RESULTS: HIF-2α levels were significantly higher in patients with MS than in the controls (median 5.2 vs. 4.7; p = 0.0275). Patients with MS also had higher high-sensitivity cardiac troponin T levels (median 7.7 vs. 4.9, p = 0.0328) than controls. HIF-2α was weakly positively correlated with systolic pulmonary artery pressure (ρ = 0.28, p = 0.001), left atrial diameter (ρ = 0.22, p = 0.012), and N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide level (ρ = 0.29, p = 0.014). HIF-2α levels did not significantly correlate with the mitral valve area or mean transmitral gradient. CONCLUSION: Elevated HIF-2α levels in patients with MS are correlated with pulmonary hypertension and cardiac stress. These findings support the involvement of hypoxia-inducible pathways in the pathophysiology of MS. However, HIF-2α elevation is modest and its clinical utility as a biomarker for MS is currently limited.
Sherpa highlanders exhibit remarkable tolerance to hypoxia, most likely due to genetic adaptations shaped by natural selection at high altitude. This study examined the roles of endothelial PAS domain protein 1 (EPAS1) and egl-9 family hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (EGLN1) in the genetic mechanisms underlying this adaptation.Blood samples were collected from 56 Sherpa highlanders residing in Namche Bazaar (3440 m) and 25 non-Sherpa lowlanders in Kathmandu (1300 m). Samples were measured for serum erythropoietin (EPO) concentrations, genetic variants of EPAS1 (rs13419896:G>A; rs4953354:A>G) and EGLN1 (rs1435166:G>A; rs2153364:A>G), and mRNA expression levels of the EPAS1 and EGLN1.Oxygen saturation (SpO2) was significantly lower in Sherpas at high altitude than in non-Sherpas at low altitude, consistent with a hypoxic state. However, serum EPO concentrations in Sherpas were comparable to those of non-Sherpas, despite the expected hypoxia-driven stimulation of EPO production. Genotyping revealed significantly lower frequencies of the wild-type alleles of EPAS1 and EGLN1 in Sherpas compared with non-Sherpas. These genetic patterns were linked to markedly reduced mRNA expression levels of both genes in Sherpa highlanders.High-altitude adaptive genetic variants in EPAS1 and EGLN1 are associated with reduced systemic mRNA expression of these genes and a blunted EPO response in Sherpa highlanders, suggesting transcriptional modulation of the hypoxia-induced factor pathway under chronic hypoxia. This attenuated hypoxic response manifests as the tolerance to hypoxia in Sherpa highlanders, enabling Sherpas to adapt to high-altitude hypoxia.© 2026 The Author(s). Annals of Human Genetics published by University College London (UCL) and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Tris(1,3-dichloro-2-propyl) phosphate (TDCPP), a prevalent environmental pollutant, has been associated with an increased risk of Parkinson's disease (PD), yet the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. To systematically elucidate these mechanisms, we employed an integrated computational and experimental approach. Network toxicology and molecular docking initially identified endothelial PAS domain protein 1 (EPAS1) as a high-priority target of TDCPP, exhibiting the strongest predicted binding affinity (-8.3 kcal/mol). This prediction was rigorously validated through in vivo experiments. Subchronic exposure of C57BL/6J mice to TDCPP (0, 0.03 0.3, 3, 30, and 300 mg/kg/day for 30 days) induced dose-dependent motor deficits, including reduced locomotor activity, impaired coordination in the pole test, and anxiety-like behavior. Pathological analysis revealed a substantial loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive (TH+) dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (nearly 50% in the high-dose group) and a significant decrease in TH protein levels. Crucially, TDCPP exposure consistently upregulated EPAS1 protein expression in the midbrain. Finally, 100-ns molecular dynamics simulations confirmed the stability of the TDCPP-EPAS1 complex, demonstrating a rigid binding pocket and identifying Cys339 as a key interacting residue (96% contact fraction). Our study demonstrates that TDCPP promotes PD-like motor dysfunction and dopaminergic neurodegeneration, likely through a mechanism involving the direct targeting and upregulation of EPAS1 within the neurovascular unit. These findings provide novel, multi-layered evidence linking this common environmental contaminant to PD pathogenesis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD) is a major cause of chronic low back pain, yet its molecular mechanisms remain unclear. We identified CRISPLD2 (cysteine-rich secretory protein LCCL domain-containing 2) as a critical regulator of nucleus pulposus cells (NPCs) homeostasis during IVDD. Single-cell transcriptomic analysis (scRNA-seq) revealed degenerative NPCs subsets enriched in iron metabolism and lipid peroxidation. CRISPLD2 knockdown in NPCs led to disrupted redox balance, elevated lipid peroxides, and excessive iron accumulation, promoting oxidative stress-induced ferroptosis and disc degeneration. Mechanistically, we identified a CRISPLD2-miR-548I-IL17A axis that governs ferroptotic cell death in IVDD, where CRISPLD2 deficiency was associated with reduced miR-548I expression, accompanied by subsequent upregulation of IL17A, thereby amplifying inflammatory and oxidative stress responses. In vivo, CRISPLD2 knockdown induced spontaneous IVDD and increased pain sensitivity, while restoration of CRISPLD2 or inhibition of IL17A alleviated ferroptosis and improved NPCs survival. Adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated overexpression of CRISPLD2 successfully alleviated IVDD in lumbar spine instability and needle-puncture models, reducing oxidative stress-induced ferroptosis and restoring disc integrity. These findings highlight the critical role of CRISPLD2 in regulating oxidative stress-induced ferroptosis in IVDD and suggest that targeting the CRISPLD2-miR-548I-IL17A axis may provide a novel therapeutic strategy for preventing disc degeneration and alleviating discogenic pain.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Endometriosis is a common disease among women of childbearing age, and endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS), a response involved in regulating protein homeostasis, has been linked to its pathogenesis. To identify ERS-related hub genes, this study sequentially employed differential expression analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction, and three machine learning algorithms. These methods led to the identification of four hub genes: Von Willebrand factor (VWF), vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM1), endothelial PAS domain protein 1 (EPAS1), and coagulation factor VIII (F8). Unsupervised cluster analysis was conducted to categorize samples into ERS clusters, and the CIBERSORT algorithm was used to calculate immune infiltration scores, revealing two stable clusters. Cluster B was defined as "immune-enriched" with significantly higher immune scores, while Cluster A was "less immune-enriched". Functional enrichment analysis of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between the clusters highlighted cell adhesion and regulation of immune cell activation as key to cluster-specific phenotypes. A diagnostic model built with the four hub genes showed robust utility via validation curves, confirming their clinical relevance. DEGs from each cluster were screened in the Connectivity Map database to identify cluster-specific therapeutic agents. RT-qPCR and immunohistochemistry (IHC) validated that both mRNA and protein levels of the four hub genes were elevated in endometriosis tissues, supporting the bioinformatics findings. Overall, this study links ERS-related hub genes to endometriosis subtyping, immune infiltration, and diagnostics, providing a basis for personalized treatments and a potential clinical tool.© 2025. The Author(s).
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most common malignant tumors in the digestive system. Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) is a promising strategy for CRC treatment, but its limited efficacy poses a challenge. Bioinformatics methods were used to screen ferroptosis-related genes in CRC. Cellular biology methods investigated endothelial PAS domain protein 1 (EPAS1) impact on cellular characteristics, stemness, and ferroptosis. Finally, in vivo experiments validated EPAS1's influence on anti-PD-1 therapy efficacy. We have found that EPAS1 is a risk gene in CRC, which can inhibit the growth, invasion, and stemness of colon cancer cells both in vitro and in vivo, and promote ferroptosis. Mechanistically, caveolin 1 (CAV1) regulates the expression of von Hippel-Lindau tumor suppressor (VHL) to inhibit the ubiquitination of EPAS1, increase its stability, further enhance the expression of nuclear receptor coactivator 4 (NCOA4) and autophagy-lysosome formation, leading to cell iron overload and inducing ferroptosis. Our study confirms EPAS1 regulates ferroptosis, impacting epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and stemness in CRC cells, and highlights its role in ICB. These findings inform CRC treatment.© 2025 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Biallelic isoleucyl-tRNA synthetase 1 (IARS1) variants are associated with an IARS1-related phenotype characterized by growth retardation, intellectual disability, muscular hypotonia, infantile hepatopathy, and interstitial lung disease. This rare, early-onset disorder is often lethal. Although several variants have been identified in recent years, their pathogenicity and underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. In this study, we generated Iars1Y148C/R444* compound heterozygous mice, which exhibited pulmonary alveolar proteinosis - like lesions, growth retardation, and muscular hypotonia. Lipid metabolomic profiling of these mice revealed dysregulation of cholesterol metabolism pathways. Furthermore, the Iars1 mutation increased surfactant deposition in alveolar macrophages by impairing lysosomal degradation and disrupting lysosome-autophagosome fusion. We also found that partial loss of IARS1 activity interfered with the post-translational processing of cathepsin Z by inhibiting its ubiquitin-mediated degradation. Importantly, exogenous expression of cathepsin Z improved surfactant clearance in macrophages with partial loss of Iars1 activity. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that partial loss of IARS1 activity induces lysosomal dysfunction in alveolar macrophages and promotes pulmonary surfactant accumulation in the alveoli, thereby contributing to the development of pulmonary alveolar proteinosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42278584 is a review article
Myasthenia gravis (MG) is one of the most prevalent disorder of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ). Non-coding RNAs regulate myoblast proliferation and differentiation.The differential expression of miRNAs was analysed by using RNA microarrays. Protein levels and gene expression were analysed by using Western blotting and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. The interactions of miR-4310 with circ_0018483 or ERBB receptor feedback inhibitor 1 (ERRFI1) were assessed using dual-luciferase reporter assays. The expression and aggregation of acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) were observed and analysed by using immunofluorescence.The expression of miR-4310 was downregulated in the whole blood of patients. circ_0018483 exhibited a sponge effect on miR-4310, and the inhibition of miR-4310 weakened AChR function. Additionally, miR-4310 targeted ERRFI1 and circ_0018483, and circ_0018483 affected the expression and aggregation of AChR by regulating miR-4310 and ERRFI1. circ_0018483 regulates the expression of ERRFI1 by targeting miR-4310, which in turn affects AChR expression and aggregation at the NMJ.We confirmed a novel circ_0018483/miR-4310/ERRFI1 ceRNA axis in MG. Our findings suggest novel AChR regulation and MG molecular mechanisms research avenues.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The plasticity of macrophages is well documented, with fundamental roles in modulating inflammation and promoting tissue repair, notably aiming to maintain homeostasis in multicellular organisms. However, the precise factors that regulate their polarization remain poorly understood. Cathepsin Z (CTSZ) encodes an enzyme highly expressed in macrophages and involved in various processes, such as migration, maturation and signal transduction, but its roles in regeneration are not described. Therefore, we used zebrafish models to investigate the roles of ctsz in macrophage polarization and regeneration in the context of sterile inflammation induced by caudal fin transection. CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockdown of ctsz led to higher pro-inflammatory tnfα+ macrophages than in control animals following injury (24-48 h post-injury), as well as accelerated regenerated area. Further studies in this field could prove valuable for the development of pharmacological approaches for chronic diseases characterized by impaired tissue regeneration, such as liver fibrosis or autoimmune diseases, in which dysregulated inflammation and regeneration play critical roles.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41809789 is a review article
Hemifacial macrosomia (HFM, OMIM 164210) is a complex and highly heterogeneous disease. FORKHEAD BOX I3 (FOXI3) is a susceptibility gene for HFM, and mice with loss of function of Foxi3 did exhibit a phenotype similar to craniofacial dysmorphism. However, the specific pathogenesis of HFM caused by FOXI3 deficiency remains unclear till now.In this study, we first constructed a Foxi3 deficiency (Foxi3-/- ) mouse model to verify the craniofacial phenotype of Foxi3-/- mice, and then used RNAseq data for gene differential expression analysis to screen candidate pathogenic genes, and conducted gene expression verification analysis using quantitative real-time PCR.By observing the phenotype of Foxi3-/- mice, we found that craniofacial dysmorphism was present. The results of comprehensive bioinformatics analysis suggested that the craniofacial dysmorphism caused by Foxi3 deficiency may be involved in the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway. Quantitative real-time PCR results showed that the expression of PI3K-Akt signaling pathway-related gene Akt2 was significantly increased in Foxi3-/- mice.The craniofacial dysmorphism caused by the deficiency of Foxi3 may be related to the expression of Akt2 and PI3K-Akt signaling pathway. This study laid a foundation for understanding the function of FOXI3 and the pathogenesis and treatment of related craniofacial dysmorphism caused by FOXI3 dysfunction.© 2024 The Authors. Molecular Genetics & Genomic Medicine published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Newborn screening can identify neonatal T-cell lymphopenia through detection of a low number of copies of T-cell receptor excision circles in dried blood spots collected at birth. After a positive screening result, further diagnostic testing is required to determine whether the subject has severe combined immunodeficiency or other causes of T-cell lymphopenia. Even after thorough evaluation, approximately 15% of children with a positive result of newborn screening for T-cell receptor excision circles remain genetically undiagnosed. Identifying the underlying genetic etiology is necessary to guide subsequent clinical management and family planning.We sought to elucidate the genetic basis of patients with T-cell lymphopenia without an apparent genetic diagnosis.We used clinical genomic testing as well as functional and immunologic assays to identify and elucidate the genetic and mechanistic basis of T-cell lymphopenia.We report 2 unrelated individuals with nonsevere T-cell lymphopenia and abnormal T-cell receptor excision circles who harbor heterozygous loss-of-function variants in forkhead box I3 transcription factor (FOXI3).Our findings support the notion that haploinsufficiency of FOXI3 results in T-cell lymphopenia with variable expressivity and that FOXI3 may be a key modulator of thymus development.Copyright © 2022 American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. All rights reserved.
PANoptosis is a type of programmed cell death (PCD) that is characterized by the simultaneous activation of pyroptosis, necroptosis, and apoptosis. This process triggers amplified inflammatory responses, which may compromise the success of vital pulp therapy (VPT). In this study, a PANoptotic dental pulp cell (DPC) cluster was identified in single-cell RNA sequencing data from inflamed dental pulp tissue. The occurrence of PANoptosis was further confirmed in human clinical pulpitis samples, primary cultured DPCs, and a mouse experimental pulpitis model. We subsequently identified forkhead box E1 (FOXE1) as a key transcription factor that regulates PANoptosis in DPCs. Moreover, FOXE1 knockdown in DPCs and mouse dental pulp tissue effectively suppressed PANoptosis and attenuated inflammatory responses. Our study demonstrated that PANoptosis plays an important role in pulpitis and that FOXE1 may represent a promising therapeutic target for VPT by regulating the progression of pulp inflammation.© 2026 The Author(s).
Objective: This study elucidated the role of the forkhead box E1 (FOXE1)-laminin γ2 (LAMC2) signaling axis in promoting brain metastasis (BM) of lung cancer and evaluated its potential as a therapeutic target to enhance the efficacy of preoperative chemoradiotherapy (CRT). Methods: Bioinformatics analysis of the GSE126548 dataset revealed a significant association between elevated FOXE1 expression and BM in lung cancer patients. Functional in vitro assays-including real-time polymerase chain reaction, Western blotting, migration, invasion, and endothelial permeability assays-were conducted in lung cancer cells and human umbilical vein endothelial cells exposed to tumor-conditioned media. In addition, in vivo xenograft and BM mouse models were established to assess the impact of FOXE1 on tumor growth, metastatic potential, and treatment responsiveness. Results: FOXE1 knockdown significantly inhibited lung cancer cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Mechanistically, LAMC2 was identified as a downstream effector of FOXE1, with rescue experiments confirming that the FOXE1-LAMC2 axis plays a central role in driving tumor progression and brain metastatic potential. Notably, FOXE1 silencing enhanced sensitivity to CRT in preclinical models. Conclusions: FOXE1 promotes lung cancer progression and BM by upregulating LAMC2. Targeting the FOXE1-LAMC2 pathway may improve the efficacy of preoperative CRT and offers a promising strategy for therapeutic intervention in lung cancer patients at high risk of BM.
This study aims to explore the association between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) loci near the haplotype region hg19 chr9:100560865-100660865 of the forkhead box E1 (FOXE1) gene and the occurrence of non-syndromic cleft lip with or without cleft palate (NSCL/P) in western Han Chinese population.In the first stage, our study recruited 159 NSCL/P patients and performed targeted region sequencing to screen SNPs loci near the haplotype region of the FOXE1 gene associated with NSCL/P. In the second stage, we selected 21 common SNPs and re-enrolled 1 000 non-syndromic cleft lip only (NSCLO) patients, 1 000 non-syndromic cleft palate only (NSCPO) patients, and 1 000 normal controls to verify the association. PLINK software was used to perform Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (HWE) test. Association analysis for common variants, gene burden analysis for rare mutations, and function prediction of SNPs with non-synonymous mutations were performed using Mutation Taster and other software programs.In the first stage, 126 variants, including 76 single nucleotide variants and 50 insertion-deletions were identified. All the included SNPs confirmed to HWE, and the results of gene burden analysis and prediction of functional harmfulness for rare variants were not statistically significant. Association analysis showed that rs13292899 of the FOXE1 gene was significantly associated with NSCL/P (P=1.85E-27) and was also correlated with NSCLO (P=6.41E-23) and non-syndromic cleft lip with cleft palate (NSCLP) (P=2.36E-15) subtypes. In the validation phase, rs79268293 (P=0.013, P=0.022), rs10983951 (P=0.009 2, P=0.007 6), rs117227387 (P=0.009 2, P=0.007 6), rs3758250 (P=0.009 2, P=0.007 6), and rs116899397 (P=0.009 2, P=0.007 6) were significantly associated with NSCLO and NSCPO; rs13292899 (P=0.008 5), rs74606599 (P=0.008 3), rs143226042 (P=0.008 3), and rs117236550 (P=0.01) were associated with the occurrence of NSCLO; and rs12343182 (P=0.008 7), rs10119760 (P=0.012), rs10113907 (P=0.012), and rs13299924 (P=0.012) were associated with the occurrence of NSCPO.This study found a new susceptible SNP rs13292899 of the FOXE1 gene that is closely associated with NSCL/P and NSCLO subtype and 13 other SNPs associated with NSCLO or NSCPO.
Forkhead box E1 (FOXE1) is a transcription factor with a crucial role in thyroid morphogenesis and differentiation. Promoter hypermethylation downregulates FOXE1 expression in different tumor types; nevertheless, its expression and relationship with methylation status in differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC) remain unclear.A total of 33 pairs of matched samples of PTC tumors and non-tumors were included. Tumor cell cultures were treated with either 5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine demethylating agent or dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO). A real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and Western blotting were performed to assess FOXE1 expression. The methylation status was quantified using bisulfite sequencing. A luciferase gene assay was used to determine CpG-island functionality. Gene expression and promoter methylation of FOXE1 and FOXE1-regulated genes were also analyzed with data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) thyroid samples.After demethylating treatment, increased FOXE1 mRNA was observed concomitantly with reduced promoter methylation of CpGisland2. A negative correlation between mRNA downregulation and an increased methylation level of CpGisland2 was observed in tumors. Diminished protein expression was also detected in some DTC cell lines and in some tumor samples, suggesting the involvement of post-transcriptional regulatory mechanisms. CPGisland2 was proved to be an enhancer. TCGA data analysis showed low FOXE1 mRNA expression in tumors with a negative correlation with methylation status and a positive correlation with the expression of most of its target genes. Reduced FOXE1 expression, accompanied by a high methylation level, was associated with PTC aggressiveness (tall cell variant, advanced extra thyroid extension, T4 American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) classification), age at diagnosis (over 45 years old), and presence of a BRAFV600E mutation.FOXE1 mRNA was downregulated in DTC compared with non-tumors, followed by high CpGisland methylation. A coupling of low mRNA expression and high methylation status was related to characteristics of aggressiveness in DTC tumors.Copyright © 2024 De Lima, Dos Santos, Da Silva, De Lima, Frutuoso, Caso, De Oliveira, Bezerra, Cerutti, Tamura, Ramos and Rubio.
Forkhead box E1 (FOXE1), also known as thyroid transcription factor 2 (TTF-2), belongs to a large family of forkhead transcription factors. It plays important roles in embryogenesis, cell growth, and differentiation. Cancer-specific FOXE1 hypermethylation events have been identified in several cancers. However, the expression and function of FOXE1 in the tumorigenesis of colorectal cancer remain still unknown. In this study, we examined FOXE1 expression and methylation in normal colon mucosa, colorectal cancer (CRC) cell lines, and primary tumors by immunohistochemistry, semi-quantitative RT-PCR, methylation-specific PCR, and bisulfite genomic sequencing. We found that FOXE1 was frequently methylated and silenced in CRC cell lines and was downregulated in CRC tissues compared with paired adjacent non-tumor tissues. Meanwhile, low FOXE1 expression was significantly correlated with lymph node metastasis and advanced TNM stages, indicating its potential as a tumor marker. Subsequently, we established colon cancer cell lines with stable FOXE1 expression to observe the biological effect on colorectal cancer, including cell growth, migration, actin cytoskeleton, and growth of human colorectal xenografts in nude mice. Ectopic expression of FOXE1 could suppress tumor cell growth and migration and affect the organization of the actin cytoskeleton together with suppressing tumorigenicity in vivo. FOXE1 methylation was frequently seen in association with a complete absence of or downregulated gene expression, and FOXE1 plays a suppressive role in the development and progression of colorectal cancer.© 2024. The Author(s).
Forkhead box E1 (FoxE1) protein is a transcriptional regulator known to play a major role in the development of the thyroid gland. By performing sequence alignments, we detected a deletion in FoxE1, which occurred in the evolution of mammals, near the point of divergence of placental mammals. This deletion led to the loss of the majority of the Eh1 motif, which was important for interactions with transcriptional corepressors. To investigate a potential mechanism for this deletion, we analyzed replication through the deletion area in mammalian cells with two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, and in vitro, using a primer extension reaction. We demonstrated that the area of the deletion presented an obstacle for replication in both assays. The exact position of polymerization arrest in primer extension indicated that it was most likely caused by a quadruplex DNA structure. The quadruplex structure hypothesis is also consistent with the exact borders of the deletion. The exact roles of these evolutionary changes in FoxE1 family proteins are still to be determined.Copyright: © 2023 Sharma et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) accounts for 30% of non-small-cell lung cancers (NSCLC), and an effective pharmacological treatment for LUSC isn't yet available. The Xihuang Pill is a potent Chinese medicinal preparation widely prescribed for the management of LUSC.The study intended to use the network-pharmacology method to ascertain the effective active ingredients, targets of action, and cellular-signal transduction involved in the prevention and treatment of LUSC when using the Xihuang Pill and to identify the mechanism of action of the pills against LUSC, to provide a more adequate scientific basis for subsequent studies.The research team performed a genetic study.The study took place at Shanghai.The research team: (1) created the feature sets, for both the LUSC and normal features, using the Cancer Genome Atlas' (TCGA's) LUSC dataset; (2) performed a weighted correlation network analysis (WGCNA) of the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) using the R package WGCNA; (3) searched for the chemical components of the Xihuang Pill using the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systematic Pharmacology Database and Analysis Platform (TCMSP) and the Herb Group Identification Platform, and (4) selected the novel the Matthews correlation coefficient (MCC) algorithm to screen the hub genes.The study found 8713 DEGs between the LUSC and normal groups. The top ten, important, downregulated genes included: (1) advanced glycosylation end product (AGER), (2) chitinase, acidic pseudogene 2 (CHIAP2), (3) CD300 molecule like family member G (CD300LG), (4) solute carrier family 6 member 4 (SLC6A4), (5) carboxypeptidase B2 (CPB2), (6) claudin 18 (CLDN18), (7) gamma-glutamyltransferase light chain 1 (GGTLC1), (8) gastrokine 2 (GKN2), (9) progastricsin (PGC), and (10) pulmonary surfactant-associated protein C (SFTPC). The top 10 upregulated genes included: (1) cancer susceptibility 9 (CASC9), (2) homeobox C13 (HOXC13), (3) keratin 6a (KRT6A), (4) desmoglein 3 (DSG3), (5) keratin 16 (KRT16), (6) forkhead box E1 (FOXE1), (7) preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME), (8) calmodulin-like protein 3 (CALML3), (9) KRT68, and (10) aldo-keto reductase family 1 member B10 (AKR1B10). The study found 41 active ingredients and 843 targets for the Xihuang Pill. The PPI network included 10 hub genes, including cyclin dependent kinase 1 (CDK1), cyclin B1 (CCNB1), cyclin B2 (CCNB2), polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1), aurora kinase B (AURKB), baculoviral IAP repeat containing 5 (BIRC5), cyclin A2 (CCNA2), aurora kinase A (AURKA), centrosome-associated protein E (CENPE), and threonine tyrosine kinase (TTK), which were the principal target genes at the core of the gene-pathway network for the drug compound to central-target relationship. The enrichment analyses used the overlapping genes and the 10 hub genes and found 390 biological processes (BPs), 25 molecular functions (MFs), 43 cellular components (CCs), and 10 Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways. The main enrichment occurred in the regulation of protein serine-threonine kinase activity, mitotic nuclear division, progesterone-mediated oocyte maturation, and the cell cycle.The study found the targets and relevant pathways of the hub genes of Xihuang Pill using biological analysis and molecular docking and demonstrated the interactions of critical chemical compounds with the hub's targeted genes were. More research is necessary to further determine whether the Xihuang Pill can improve LUSC patients' survival rate by regulation of those genes.
Nonsyndromic craniofacial clefts are relatively common congenital malformations which could create a significant negative effect on the health status and life quality of affected individuals within the pediatric population. Multiple cleft candidate genes and their coded proteins have been described with their possible involvement during cleft formation. Some of these proteins like Homeobox Protein BarH-like 1 (BARX1), Distal-Less Homeobox 4 (DLX4), Forkhead Box E1 (FOXE1), Homeobox Protein Hox-B3 (HOXB3), and Muscle Segment Homeobox 2 (MSX2) have been associated with the formation of craniofacial clefts. Understanding the pathogenetic mechanisms of nonsyndromic craniofacial cleft formation could provide a better knowledge in cleft management and could be a possible basis for development and improvement of cleft treatment options. This study investigates the presence of BARX1, DLX4, FOXE1, HOXB3, and MSX2 positive cells by using immunohistochemistry in different types of cleft-affected tissue while determining their possible connection with cleft pathogenesis process.Craniofacial cleft tissue material was obtained during cleft-correcting surgery from patients with nonsyndromic craniofacial cleft diagnosis. Tissue material was gathered from patients who had unilateral cleft lip (n=36), bilateral cleft lip (n=13), and cleft palate (n=26). Control group (n=7) tissue material was received from individuals without any craniofacial clefts. The number of factor positive cells in the control group and patient group tissue was evaluated by using the semiquantitative counting method. Data was evaluated with the use of nonparametric statistical methods.Statistically significant differences were identified between the number of BARX1, FOXE1, HOXB3, and MSX2-containing cells in controls and cleft patient groups but no statistically significant difference was found for DLX4. Statistically significant correlations between the evaluated factors were also notified in cleft patient groups.HOXB3 could be more associated with morphopathogenesis of unilateral cleft lip during postnatal course of the disorder. FOXE1 and BARX1 could be involved with both unilateral and bilateral cleft lip morphopathogenesis. The persistence of MSX2 in all evaluated cleft types could indicate its possible interaction within multiple cleft types. DLX4 most likely is not involved with postnatal cleft morphopathogenesis process.Copyright © 2022 Mārtiņš Vaivads, Ilze Akota, Māra Pilmane. Published by Vilnius University Press.
Thyroid carcinoma (TC) is one of the frequent endocrine malignancies, and growing evidence suggests that aberrant microRNA (miRNA) expression contributes to TC development and progression. Nevertheless, the function of miR-330-5p in the progression of TC remains unknown.The expression levels of miR-330-5 in patients with thyroid carcinoma and healthy controls were detected, and their potential diagnostic and prognostic values were analyzed.In this study, we firstly found that miR-330-5p expression was markedly upregulated in TC tissue and cell lines. Functionally, the downregulation of miR-330-5p suppressed TC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Further studies revealed that miR-330-5p negatively regulated the expression of forkhead box E1 (FOXE1). More importantly, the results of rescue experiments suggested that FOXE1 overexpression reduced the positive effects of miR-330-5p overexpression in TPC-1 and K-1 cells.This work revealed that miR-330-5p facilitated the TC progression through targeting FOXE1, which may offer novel therapeutic options for TC.Copyright © 2021 Yuxia Wang et al.
Forkhead box E1 (FOXE1) is a lineage-restricted transcription factor involved in thyroid cancer susceptibility. Cancer-associated polymorphisms map in regulatory regions, thus affecting the extent of gene expression. We have recently shown that genetic reduction of FOXE1 dosage modifies multiple thyroid cancer phenotypes. To identify relevant effectors playing roles in thyroid cancer development, here we analyse FOXE1-induced transcriptional alterations in thyroid cells that do not express endogenous FOXE1. Expression of FOXE1 elicits cell migration, while transcriptome analysis reveals that several immune cells-related categories are highly enriched in differentially expressed genes, including several upregulated chemokines involved in macrophage recruitment. Accordingly, FOXE1-expressing cells induce chemotaxis of co-cultured monocytes. We then asked if FOXE1 was able to regulate macrophage infiltration in thyroid cancers in vivo by using a mouse model of cancer, either wild type or with only one functional FOXE1 allele. Expression of the same set of chemokines directly correlates with FOXE1 dosage, and pro-tumourigenic M2 macrophage infiltration is decreased in tumours with reduced FOXE1. These data establish a novel link between FOXE1 and macrophages recruitment in the thyroid cancer microenvironment, highlighting an unsuspected function of this gene in the crosstalk between neoplastic and immune cells that shape tumour development and progression.
Androgenetic alopecia (AGA) is characterized by progressive hair follicle miniaturization driven by premature follicle regression. While extracellular vesicles (EVs) are potent bioactive therapeutics, their clinical translation is hindered by the low yields and poor stability of mammalian-derived sources. Herein, we developed an injectable biomacromolecular hydrogel composed of sodium carboxymethylcellulose (CMCNa), sodium alginate (SA), and hyaluronic acid (HA) to deliver plant-derived Poria cocos extracellular vesicles (PCEVs) for the topical treatment of AGA. This polysaccharide matrix was engineered to localize vesicular cargo within the follicular niche, preserve vesicle integrity, and facilitate the sustained release of PCEVs. The hydrogel exhibited favorable rheological properties, injectability, and cytocompatibility for topical application. In a dihydrotestosterone (DHT)-induced AGA mouse model, topical administration of the PCEV-loaded hydrogel significantly accelerated hair regrowth, enhanced follicle density, and restored hair bulb volume and dermal thickness. Transcriptomic profiling revealed that the therapeutic effect was driven by Wnt/β-catenin signaling activation. Specifically, PCEVs treatment led to the upregulation of differentiation markers homeobox C13 (Hoxc13) and forkhead box N1 (Foxn1), hair-shaft keratin Krt31, and desmoglein 4 (Dsg4), along with the downregulation of stem-cell quiescence markers nuclear factor of activated T cells 1 (Nfatc1) and Cd34. Collectively, this delivery platform effectively leverages plant-derived EV cargo to reverse stem-cell quiescence and promote follicular regeneration, offering a scalable and stable translational strategy for hair loss disorders.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
T cells play a vital role in antigen presentation, immune tolerance imbalance, and secretion of pathogenic cytokines in the progression of Myasthenia Gravis (MG). Previous studies have founded that patients with thymic hyperplasia accompanied by MG exhibit autoreactive T cells in thymus that can recognize self-antigens at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ), leading to the destruction of acetylcholine receptors (AChR) and the appearance of muscle weakness. Furthermore, Thymic hyperplasia is associated with T-cell-related autoimmune diseases, and increased expression of WNT4 and FOXN1 are beneficial to the growth of thymic cells and the maintenance of the thymic microenvironment.The samples were obtained from surgical patients who met the criteria, and this study was ethically approved. We first measured the proportion of T cell subsets in the peripheral blood and thymus of thymic hyperplasia patients with and without myasthenia gravis. Then, we quantified the WNT4 and FOXN1 proteins in the thymus. Finally, we used the Pearson correlation test to analyze the correlation between autoreactive T cells and the thymic atrophy pathway.Flow cytometry clarified that Th1 and Th17 cells were elevated in the peripheral blood and thymus of patients with MG (1.207 ± 1.444 and 3.788 ± 0.6920 in Th1, 7.683 ± 1.025 and 0.3127 ± 0.1936 in Th17). Western blotting revealed increased expression of key molecules in the thymic atrophy pathway, WNT4 and FOXN1, in the MG group. Additionally, the abnormal activation of the thymic atrophy pathway may be one of the causes of autoreactive T cell production.Our study has identified an increased number of Th1 and Th17 cells in the peripheral blood and thymus of patients with thymic hyperplasia associated MG. Quantitative analysis of proteins and RNA indicates that the expression of WNT4 and FOXN1 is upregulated in patients with thymic hyperplasia accompanied by MG. Additionally, the abnormal activation of the thymic atrophy pathway may be one of the causes of autoreactive T cell production. This research provides a potential perspective on the pathogenesis of MG in patients with thymic hyperplasia.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Chen, Yang, Chen, Li, Luo and Huang.
A man in his 50s develops signs of immune dysfunction (recurrent chest infections and new-onset chronic diarrhoea), alongside a history of multiple distinct malignancies and nail dystrophy. Immunological testing reveals T-cell lymphopenia and hypogammaglobulinaemia. Whole genome sequencing reveals a heterozygous c.1465del mutation in the FOXN1 (forkhead box N1) gene. This case suggests that previously healthy carriers of heterozygous FOXN1 mutations may be at risk of developing immune dysfunction in later life. Potential reasons for the severe and delayed phenotype include a dominant-negative effect of the resultant protein (p.Gln489ArgfsTer61), age-related involution of the thymus and previous chemoradiotherapy. Further studies on heterozygous FOXN1 mutations are required to clarify their clinical significance and inform evidence-based management approaches.Copyright © 2025, Brader et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40484290 is a review article
In Alzheimer's disease (AD), the balance of T cell response in the brain is dysregulated due to increase of T-helper 1 (Th1) and Th17 over Th2 response. Considering the link between local and systemic immune response, it is important to modulate brain pattern of T cell in harmony with the systemic immune system. Some studies also attempted to rejuvenate thymus which is affected in AD. Based on immunologic properties of sperm, previous studies demonstrated significant therapeutic effects of sperm head on the brain AD animal models. In this study, pattern of T cell response was determined locally in the brain and systemically in the cervical lymph nodes, and spleen. Thymus health status was also evaluated using forkhead box N1 (FOXN1). The results were compared between control and sperm head-treated AD model animals. In the brain, cervical lymph nodes, and spleen, treatment with sperm head significantly decreased interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) along with interleukin-17 (IL-17) and increased IL-4, representative of Th1, Th17, and Th2, respectively. Surprisingly, in the sperm head-treated AD model animals, significant decrease was observed in regulatory T cells (Treg), represented by cluster of designation 4 (CD4), CD25, and FOXP3 high expression. Interestingly, sperm head had significant rejuvenation effects on the thymus represented by increase in FOXN1. The results show that sperm head could deviate chronic inflammation towards a constructive inflammation. Results suggest revision of our attitude towards the inflammation as the results suggest that boosting inflammation can be more efficient than suppressing inflammation for treatment of AD.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Background: The roles of Forkhead box N1 (FOXN1) in lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) remains elusive. This study was focused on assessing the expression levels of FOXN1 in LUSC and exploring its potential clinical implications. Methods: Utilizing a range of databases, this study conducted an analysis of the FOXN1 gene's expression levels, comparing LUSC samples with those from normal lung tissues. The expression levels of FOXN1 in primary LUSC and corresponding normal lung tissues were assessed using immunohistochemistry (IHC). Histoscore was used to evaluate the staining degree. χ2 test and Fisher's exact test were employed to assess the association between categorical variables that do not possess an ordinal nature. Multivariate survival analysis was conducted using the Kaplan-Meier method, the Wilcoxon test, and the Cox proportional hazards model. Results: In contrast to normal lung tissues, the expression of the FOXN1 gene was found to be significantly elevated in LUSC tissues (P < 0.01). And FOXN1 was expressed in 79 (98.8%) evaluated LUSC tissues, most of which showed compositive IHC-staining intensity, presenting heterogeneously expression. 69 (87.3%) cases were characterized for strong immunostaining intensity, 70 (87.5%) cases showed moderate intensity, and 66 (82.5%) cases presented weak intensity. Only one sample of normal lung tissue, which represents 10% of the total, exhibited weak immunostaining exclusively (P < 0.05). Additionally, the expression of FOXN1 was found to have a significant correlation with the grading of LUSC, the presence of lymph node and distant metastases, the stage of the disease, and the survival outcomes (P < 0.05). Conclusion: The expression of FOXN1 is frequently increased in LUSC, and the patients with high FOXN1 expression have a poorer survival outcome. FOXN1 can be a novel biomarker and prognostic indicator for LUSC patients.© The author(s).
In order to prevent the maternal immune defenses to the semi-allogeneic fetus, the maternal body will present a special adaptive immune system change represented by acute thymic involution(ATI) during pregnancy, which can be quickly regenerated after delivery. The ATI during pregnancy is related to the level of sex hormones, which is mainly caused by progesterone. Pregnancy-induced ATI is manifested as the continuous shrinkage of thymus volume, especially the cortex, and the wrinkle and phagocytosis of the subcapsular cortical thymic epithelial cells(cTECs), while other thymic epithelial cells(TECs) remain unchanged. The postpartum thymus is regenerated by the co-mediation of forkhead box N1(FOXN1) as well as its target genes chemokine(C-C motif) ligand 25(CCL25), chemokine(C-X-C motif) ligand 12(CXCL12), δ-like ligand 4(DLL4), cathepsin L(CTSL), and serine protease 16(PRSS16). Once the postpartum thymus is poorly repaired, immune dysfunction of the maternal body and several puerperal diseases will be induced, seriously endangering the survival of the mother and the newborn. In traditional Chinese medicine(TCM), Qi and blood are the cornerstone of pregnancy, and the thymus plays a key role in regulating Qi and blood. The deficiency of Qi and blood during pregnancy and childbirth is closely related to the abnormal ATI during pregnancy and the poor regeneration of the postpartum thymus. Based on this theory, TCM has profound academic ideas and rich clinical experience in postpartum recuperation. Based on the systematic description of the mechanism of ATI regeneration during pregnancy, as well as data mining and analysis of two classic gynecological works of TCM, Wan's Gynecology and Fu Qing-zhu's Treatise on Gynecology, this study found that the commonly used TCM for postpartum included Angelicae Sinensis Radix, Ginseng Radix et Rhizoma, Glycyrrhizae Radix et Rhizoma, and Chuanxiong Rhizoma. Among them, Ginseng Radix et Rhizoma, Angelicae Sinensis Radix, and Chuanxiong Rhizoma are high-frequency TCMs with positive effects on postpartum recovery.However, the mechanism of these TCMs in promoting postpartum thymus regeneration needs further investigation.
Thymus hypoplasia due to stromal cell problems has been linked to mutations in several transcription factors, including Forkhead box N1 (FOXN1). FOXN1 supports T-cell development by regulating the formation and expansion of thymic epithelial cells (TECs). While autosomal recessive FOXN1 mutations result in a nude and severe combined immunodeficiency phenotype, the impact of single-allelic or compound heterozygous FOXN1 mutations is less well-defined.With more than 400 FOXN1 mutations reported, their impact on protein function and thymopoiesis remains unclear for most variants. We developed a systematic approach to delineate the functional impact of diverse FOXN1 variants.Selected FOXN1 variants were tested with transcriptional reporter assays and imaging studies. Thymopoiesis was assessed in mouse lines genocopying several human FOXN1 variants. Reaggregate thymus organ cultures were used to compare the thymopoietic potential of the FOXN1 variants.FOXN1 variants were categorized into benign, loss- or gain-of-function, and/or dominant-negatives. Dominant negative activities mapped to frameshift variants impacting the transactivation domain. A nuclear localization signal was mapped within the DNA binding domain. Thymopoiesis analyses with mouse models and reaggregate thymus organ cultures revealed distinct consequences of particular Foxn1 variants on T-cell development.The potential effect of a FOXN1 variant on T-cell output from the thymus may relate to its effects on transcriptional activity, nuclear localization, and/or dominant negative functions. A combination of functional assays and thymopoiesis comparisons enabled a categorization of diverse FOXN1 variants and their potential impact on T-cell output from the thymus.Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 36631020 is a review article
Loss-of-function mutations in the forkhead box N1 (FOXN1) gene lead to nude severe combined immunodeficiency, a rare inherited syndrome characterized by athymia, severe T cell immunodeficiency, congenital alopecia, and nail dystrophy. We recently produced FOXN1 mutant nude rabbits (NuRabbits) by using CRISPR-Cas9. Here we report the establishment and maintenance of the NuRabbit colony. NuRabbits, like nude mice, are hairless, lack thymic development, and are immunodeficient. To demonstrate the functional applications of NuRabbits in biomedical research, we show that they can successfully serve as the recipient animals in xenotransplantation experiments using human induced pluripotent stem cells or tissue-engineered blood vessels. Our work presents the NuRabbit as a new member of the immunodeficient animal model family. The relatively large size and long lifespan of NuRabbits offer unique applications in regenerative medicine, cancer research, and the study of a variety of other human conditions, including immunodeficiency.Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Lymph node (LN) metastasis is a critical indicator of poor prognosis in breast cancer (BC). BC-derived exosomes influence intercellular communication within the tumor microenvironment, driving metastatic progression. However, the precise mechanisms by which exosomes facilitate LN metastasis in BC remain unclear. We performed small RNA sequencing on serum exosomes to identify Piwi-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) associated with BC LN metastasis. Functional investigations of exosomal piR-hsa-28212 included in vitro assays for migration and tube formation of human lymphatic endothelial cells (HLECs), alongside an in vivo footpad-popliteal LN metastasis model. Specific interactions between piR-hsa-28212 and TBX1 (T-box transcription factor 1), as well as TBX1 and VEGF receptor 3 (VEGFR3), were validated through luciferase reporter assays. The stability of TBX1 mRNA was analyzed by actinomycin D assay. RNA pulldown, RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP), and RNA fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) assays were conducted to explore the interaction between piR-hsa-28212 and METTL3. PiR-hsa-28212 was significantly upregulated in serum exosomes of BC patients with LN metastasis. Exosomal piR-hsa-28212 enhanced HLECs migration and tube formation in vitro and promoted lymphangiogenesis and LN metastasis in vivo. Mechanistically, exosomal piR-hsa-28212 transferred from BC cells to HLECs stabilized TBX1 mRNA, thereby upregulating VEGFR3 expression. In BC cells, piR-hsa-28212 directly bound to and stabilized METTL3 protein, modulating N6-methyladenosine (m6A) methylation of vascular endothelial growth factor C (VEGFC) mRNA and consequently increasing VEGFC expression and secretion. Collectively, these findings reveal an exosome-mediated piRNA regulatory mechanism that synergistically amplifies VEGFC/VEGFR3 signaling to drive LN metastasis in BC, highlighting piR-hsa-28212 as a potential therapeutic target. Trial Registration: KYLL-2022-338.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) is a key component of the standard treatment regimen for patients with advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC); however, a substantial proportion of patients fail to benefit from NAC because of intrinsic or acquired chemoresistance, leading to disease progression. Aberrant promoter methylation of tumor suppressor genes has been implicated in the diminished chemotherapy response in patients with ESCC. In this study, we show that hypermethylation of the CpG island of the T-box Transcription Factor 1 (TBX1) promoter is frequently associated with nonresponse to NAC in patients with ESCC. Functional experiments indicate that TBX1 suppresses ESCC cell proliferation, induces apoptosis, and increases cisplatin sensitivity. Mechanistically, TBX1 activates the Hippo signaling pathway through two complementary mechanisms: transcriptional upregulation of MST1 and LATS1 and inhibition of F-actin polymerization. Restoration of TBX1 expression enhances chemosensitivity and reduces tumor growth in vivo. Collectively, our findings suggest that TBX1 promoter hypermethylation has the potential to serve as a predictive biomarker of the NAC response in ESCC and define an epigenetic mechanism in which TBX1 silencing contributes to chemoresistance through impairment of Hippo pathway activation. These results suggest that modulating TBX1 expression and Hippo pathway activity represents a potential therapeutic strategy for overcoming chemoresistance in ESCC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a common genetic cardiovascular disease characterized by significant genetic heterogeneity. While the T-box transcription factor 1 (TBX1) gene is known to cause congenital cardiovascular defects, it has not been previously associated with HCM.Whole-exome sequencing (WES) was performed to identify causative gene mutations in a recently diagnosed Chinese family with HCM. The mutation was confirmed using Sanger sequencing, which was also employed to investigate familial co-segregation. A literature review was conducted to analyze previously reported TBX1 mutations and their associated phenotypes.A novel heterozygous frameshift mutation, TBX1 (NM_080647.1):c.3_27dup (p.Met10Alafs∗167), was identified in affected family members. Familial co-segregation analysis revealed that this mutation correlated with the HCM phenotype. To date, no previous studies have reported an association between TBX1 mutations and HCM, suggesting that this may represent a novel TBX1-related phenotype.This study identifies familial HCM as a new phenotype linked to TBX1 gene mutations. These findings expand the mutation and phenotype spectrum of TBX1 and emphasize the need for further research to understand the mechanisms by which the c.3_27dup (p.Met10Alafs∗167) mutation leads to HCM.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
To observe the effect of electroacupuncture (EA) on lipid metabolism and cyclic adenosine monophosphate-dependent protein kinase A (PKA)/cyclic adenosine monophosphate-responsive element binding protein (CREB) signalling pathway in obese rats, so as to explore its possible mechanism in promoting browning of white fat in obese rats.Forty 8-week-old male SD rats were randomly divided into blank, model and EA groups (n=10 per group). The obesity model was established by feeding the rats with high-fat diet for 12 weeks. For the EA group, EA (2 Hz/15 Hz, 1.5 mA) was applied to "Zhongwan" (CV12), "Guanyuan" (CV4) and bilateral "Tianshu" (ST25) and "Fenglong" (ST40) for 20 min, once a day, 6 days a week for 6 weeks. After the treatment, the body weight, body length and abdominal circumference of rats were evaluated, and Lee's index was calculated. The weight of inguinal white adipose tissue, epididymal white adipose tissue, white adipose tissue and scapular brown adipose tissue of rats were weighed. The contents of serum total cholesterol (TC), triglyceride (TG), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) were measured by the microplate method. HE staining was used to detect the morphology of inguinal white adipose tissue and scapular brown adipose tissue. Western blot was used to detect the expression levels of PKA, CREB, phosphorylated (p)-CREB, mitochondrial uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ-coactivator 1-α (PGC-1α) and sterol regulatory element binding protein 1 (SREBP-1) and immunohistochemistry was used to dectect the positive expressions of PKA、CREB、p-CREB、UCP1、PGC-1α in inguinal white adipose tissue and scapular brown adipose tissue. The mRNA expressions of UCP1, PGC-1α, PR domain-containing protein 16 (PRDM16), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ), cytochrome c oxidase subunit 7a1 (Cox7a1), cytochrome c oxidase subunit 8b (Cox8b), iodothyronine deiodinase 2 (DIO2), ELOVL3 fatty acid elongase 3 (ELOVL3), cell death-inducing DFFA-like effector a (Cidea), T-box transcription factor 1 (Tbx1), transmembrane protein 26 (Tmem26), and 4-1BB receptor (CD137) in the inguinal white adipose tissue and interscapular brown adipose tissue of rats from various groups were detected by quantitative real-time PCR.Compared with the blank group, the body weight, abdominal circumference, Lee's index, TG, TC and LDL-C contents, white fat mass in the inguinal, epididymal and perirenal regions, and SREBP-1 protein expression were significantly increased in the model group (P<0.001, P<0.01);whereas brown fat mass in the scapular region, serum HDL-C content, PKA, p-CREB, UCP1, PGC-1α protein expression, as well as mRNA expressions of browning-related genes such as UCP1, PGC-1α, and PRDM16 were significantly decreased (P<0.001, P<0.01, P<0.05). H.E. staining showed an increase of the volume of white adipose tissues, disordered arrangement of cells with vague boundary, meanwhile an enlarge of vacuoles and an increase volume of brown adipose tissues, present white adipocyte-like changes in the model group. Compared with the model group, EA can effectively improve the above indicators of lipid metabolism and white fat browning (P<0.01, P<0.001, P<0.05), and reverse the morphology of adipose tissues in the obese rats.EA can effectively reduce the body weight and improve lipid metabolism in obesity rats, which is possibly associated with its functions in activating the PKA/CREB signalling pathway, up-regulating the white fat browning markers UCP1 and PGC-1α protein expressions and white fat browning-related genes, and down-regulating the expression of the lipid regulatory protein SREBP-1.
Beige adipocytes have physiological functions similar to brown adipocytes, which are available to increase energy expenditure through uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1) within mitochondria. Recently, many studies showed white adipocytes can undergo remodeling into beige adipocytes, called "browning", by increasing fusion and fission events referred to as mitochondrial dynamics.In this study, we aimed to investigate the browning effects of 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HA), one of the major compounds of black raspberries.We examined the mechanism underlying the browning properties of 4-HA focusing on UCP1-dependent non-shivering thermogenesis in 3T3-L1 white adipocytes, high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obese male C57BL/6J mice, and cold-exposed male C57BL/6J mice.4-HA treatment elevates browning markers such as UCP1, T-Box transcription factor 1, and PR domain containing 16, mitochondrial function factors like oxidative phosphorylation complex as well as mitochondrial dynamic-related factors like phosphorylated dynamin-related protein 1 (p-DRP1), DRP1, and mitofusin 1 in 3T3-L1 white adipocytes, which were also confirmed in inguinal white adipose tissue (iWAT) of HFD-induced obese mice. Mdivi-1 blocked the increased DRP1-mediated mitochondrial fission by 4-HA, and even the browning effect of 4-HA was abolished. Furthermore, 4-HA increased AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) in both the 3T3-L1 white adipocytes and iWAT of HFD-induced obese mice. Inhibition of AMPK with Compound C also blocked the 4-HA-induced mitochondrial fission and browning effect.4-HA induces the browning of white adipocytes into beige adipocytes by regulating the DRP1-mediated mitochondrial dynamics through AMPK. These findings suggest that 4-HA could serve as a therapeutic candidate for obesity and related metabolic disorders.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Conotruncal defects due to developmental abnormalities of the outflow tract (OFT) are an important cause of cyanotic congenital heart disease. Dysregulation of transcriptional programs tuned by NKX2-5 (NK2 homeobox 5), GATA6 (GATA binding protein 6), and TBX1 (T-box transcription factor 1) have been implicated in abnormal OFT morphogenesis. However, there remains no consensus on how these transcriptional programs function in a unified gene regulatory network within the OFT.We generated mice harboring a 226-nucleotide deletion of a highly conserved cardiac enhancer containing 2 GATA-binding sites located ≈9.4 kb upstream of the transcription start site of Nkx2-5 (Nkx2-5∆enh) using CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing and assessed phenotypes. Cardiac defects in Nkx2-5∆enh/∆enh mice were structurally characterized using histology and scanning electron microscopy, and physiologically assessed using electrocardiography, echocardiography, and optical mapping. Transcriptome analyses were performed using RNA sequencing and single-cell RNA sequencing data sets. Endogenous GATA6 interaction with and activity on the NKX2-5 enhancer was studied using chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing and transposase-accessible chromatin sequencing in human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes.Nkx2-5∆enh/∆enh mice recapitulated cyanotic conotruncal defects seen in patients with NKX2-5, GATA6, and TBX1 mutations. Nkx2-5∆enh/∆enh mice also exhibited defects in right Purkinje fiber network formation, resulting in right bundle-branch block. Enhancer deletion reduced embryonic Nkx2-5 expression selectively in the right ventricle and OFT of mutant hearts, indicating that enhancer activity is localized to the anterior second heart field. Transcriptional profiling of the mutant OFT revealed downregulation of important genes involved in OFT rotation and septation, such as Tbx1, Pitx2, and Sema3c. Endogenous GATA6 interacted with the highly conserved enhancer in human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes and in wild-type mouse hearts. We found critical dose dependency of cardiac enhancer accessibility on GATA6 gene dosage in human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes.Our results using human and mouse models reveal an essential gene regulatory network of the OFT that requires an anterior second heart field enhancer to link GATA6 with NKX2-5-dependent rotation and septation gene programs.
Obesity is a major health problem because it is associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, hypertension, and some cancers. Strategies to prevent or reduce obesity focus mainly on the possible effects of natural compounds that can induce a phenotype of browning adipocytes capable of releasing energy in the form of heat. Allicin, a bioactive component of garlic with numerous pharmacological functions, is known to stimulate energy metabolism.In the present study, the effects of allicin on human Simpson-Golabi-Behmel Syndrome (SGBS) cells were investigated by quantifying the dynamics of lipid droplets (LDs) and mitochondria, as well as transcriptomic changes after six days of differentiation.Allicin significantly promoted the reduction in the surface area and size of LDs, leading to the formation of multilocular adipocytes, which was confirmed by the upregulation of genes related to lipolysis. The increase in the number and decrease in the mean aspect ratio of mitochondria in allicin-treated cells indicate a shift in mitochondrial dynamics toward fission. The structural results are confirmed by transcriptomic analysis showing a significant arrangement of gene expression associated with beige adipocytes, in particular increased expression of T-box transcription factor 1 (TBX1), uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1), PPARG coactivator 1 alpha (PPARGC1A), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARA), and OXPHOS-related genes. The most promising targets are nuclear genes such as retinoid X receptor alpha (RXRA), retinoid X receptor gamma (RXRG), nuclear receptor subfamily 1 group H member 3 (NR1H3), nuclear receptor subfamily 1 group H member 4 (NR1H4), PPARA, and oestrogen receptor 1 (ESR1).Transcriptomic data and the network pharmacology-based approach revealed that genes and potential targets of allicin are involved in ligand-activated transcription factor activity, intracellular receptor signalling, regulation of cold-induced thermogenesis, and positive regulation of lipid metabolism. The present study highlights the potential role of allicin in triggering browning in human SGBS cells by affecting the LD dynamics, mitochondrial morphology, and expression of brown marker genes. Understanding the potential targets through which allicin promotes this effect may reveal the underlying signalling pathways and support these findings.Copyright © 2023 Ali, Wabitsch, Tews and Colitti.
The arterial pole of the heart is a hotspot for life-threatening forms of congenital heart defects (CHDs). Development of this cardiac region occurs by addition of Second Heart Field (SHF) progenitor cells to the embryonic outflow tract (OFT) and subsequently the base of the ascending aorta and pulmonary trunk. Understanding the cellular and genetic mechanisms driving arterial pole morphogenesis is essential to provide further insights into the cause of CHDs.A synergistic combination of bioinformatic analysis and mouse genetics as well as embryo and explant culture experiments were used to dissect the cross-regulatory transcriptional circuitry operating in future subaortic and subpulmonary OFT myocardium.Here, we show that the lipid sensor PPARγ (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma) is expressed in future subpulmonary myocardium in the inferior wall of the OFT and that PPARγ signaling-related genes display regionalized OFT expression regulated by the transcription factor TBX1 (T-box transcription factor 1). Modulating PPARγ activity in ex vivo cultured embryos treated with a PPARγ agonist or antagonist or deleting Pparγ in cardiac progenitor cells using Mesp1-Cre reveals that Pparγ is required for addition of future subpulmonary myocardium and normal arterial pole development. Additionally, the non-canonical DLK1 (delta-like noncanonical Notch ligand 1)/NOTCH (Notch receptor 1)/HES1 (Hes family bHLH transcription factor 1) pathway negatively regulates Pparγ in future subaortic myocardium in the superior OFT wall.Together these results identify Pparγ as a regulator of regional transcriptional identity in the developing heart, providing new insights into gene interactions involved in congenital heart defects.
The Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) is a globally important species for its value in fisheries and aquaculture, and as a research model. In order to characterise aspects of sex differentiation at the morphological and mRNA level in this species, the present study examined developmental changes in gonad morphology and gene expression in males and females between 0 and 79 days post hatch (dph). Morphological differentiation of the ovary (indicated by the formation of germ cell cysts) became apparent from 52 dph. By 79 dph, ovarian phenotype was evident in 100% of genotypic females. Testes remained in an undifferentiated-like state throughout the experiment, containing germ cells dispersed singularly within the gonadal region distal to the mesentery. There were no significant sex-related differences in gonad cross-section size, germ cell number or germ cell diameter during the experiment. The expression of genes involved in teleost sex differentiation (anti-müllerian hormone (amh), cytochrome P450, family 19, subfamily A, polypeptide 1a (cyp19a1a), forkhead box L2a (foxl2a), gonadal soma-derived factor (gsdf), r-spondin 1 (rspo1), sexually dimorphic on the Y chromosome (sdY)), retinoic acid-signalling (aldehyde dehydrogenase 1a2 (aldh1a2), cytochrome P450 family 26 a1 (cyp26a1), cytochrome P450 family 26 b1 (cyp26b1), t-box transcription factor 1 (tbx1a)) and neuroestrogen production (cytochrome P450, family 19, subfamily A, polypeptide 1b (cyp19a1b)) was investigated. Significant sex-related differences were observed only for the expression of amh, cyp19a1a, gsdf and sdY. In males, amh, gsdf and sdY were upregulated from 34, 59 and 44 dph respectively. In females, cyp19a1a was upregulated from 66 dph. Independent of sex, foxl2a expression was highest at 0 dph and had reduced ∼ 47-fold by the time of morphological sex differentiation at 52 dph. This study provides new insights into the timing and sequence of some physiological changes associated with sex differentiation in Atlantic salmon. These findings also reveal that some aspects of the mRNA sex differentiation pathways in Atlantic salmon are unique compared to other teleost fishes, including other salmonids.Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Congenital athymia can present with severe T cell lymphopenia (TCL) in the newborn period, which can be detected by decreased T cell receptor excision circles (TRECs) on newborn screening (NBS). The most common thymic stromal defect causing selective TCL is 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (22q11.2DS). T-box transcription factor 1 (TBX1), present on chromosome 22, is responsible for thymic epithelial development. Single variants in TBX1 causing haploinsufficiency cause a clinical syndrome that mimics 22q11.2DS. Definitive therapy for congenital athymia is allogeneic thymic transplantation. However, universal availability of such therapy is limited. We present a patient with early diagnosis of congenital athymia due to TBX1 haploinsufficiency. While evaluating for thymic transplantation, she developed Omenn Syndrome (OS) and life-threatening adenoviremia. Despite treatment with anti-virals and cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs), life threatening adenoviremia persisted. Given the imminent need for rapid establishment of T cell immunity and viral clearance, the patient underwent an unmanipulated matched sibling donor (MSD) hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT), ultimately achieving post-thymic donor-derived engraftment, viral clearance, and immune reconstitution. This case illustrates that because of the slower immune recovery that occurs following thymus transplantation and the restricted availability of thymus transplantation globally, clinicians may consider CTL therapy and HCT to treat congenital athymia patients with severe infections.Copyright © 2022 Chitty-Lopez, Duff, Vaughn, Trotter, Monforte, Lindsay, Haddad, Keller, Oshrine and Leiding.
Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in diabetic populations. Elevated advanced glycation end products (AGEs) in diabetes foster the on-set, and progression of CVDs. However, the underlying AGEs-induced signaling nexus, involved in cardiomyocytes apoptosis, remain unexplored. Currently no anti-AGEs drug available to address CVDs in diabetes. Indeed, natural products remained a major sources of new medicine, and currently being focused in the drug development. The objective of this study was to explore the mechanism of AGEs-associated apoptotic pathway in cardiomyocytes. Additionally, to harness the medicinal properties of natural products, a newly developed formulation, comprised of rutin, kaempferol, and thymoquinone, named IQ-RKT, was characterized for its anti-apoptotic potential against AGEs-induced cardiotoxicity. We studied the role of MGO-, and glucose-AGEs in cardiomyocytes apoptosis under diabetic environment in H9c2 cells in vitro, as well as in SD diabetic rats in vivo. The inhibition of AGEs-induced apoptosis of cardiomyocytes was investigated by a treatment with IQ-RKT. Using H9c2 cells, as well as SD diabetic rats models in vivo, we found that AGEs-induced elevated levels of RAGE was reduced by a treatment with IQ-RKT. AGEs stimulate intracellular ROS generation, TRAF3 interacting protein 2 (TRAF3IP2) expression, and TRAF3IP2-dependent-JNK activation. TRAF3IP2/JNK causes transactivation of AP-1/NF-κB transcription factors. AGEs increase Bax, cytochrome c, and activate caspase-3, and suppress anti-apoptotic Bcl-2. IQ-RKT significantly inhibited this apoptotic pathway, and tilted the balance towards anti-apoptosis. Moreover, IQ-RKT decreased lipid peroxidation, cardiac injury, and glycooxidative biomarkers in the plasma of diabetic rats. Interestingly, this effect of IQ-RKT was independent of hyperglycemic environment in diabetic rats. The IQ-RKT also appeared as a stable formulation at different pH, and temperature ranges. The study provides experimental evidences that AGE-RAGE axis is likely associated with cardiomyocytes death via ROS-dependent TRAF3IP2/JNK pathway. Therefore, targeting this pathway appeared to have therapeutic potential. The newly developed formulation IQ-RKT was identified as an effective anti-apoptotic cardioprotective agent to be further investigated through pre-clinical, and clinical studies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Curcumin, a polyphenolic compound derived from the widely used spice Curcuma longa, has shown anti-atherosclerotic effects in animal models and cultured vascular cells. Inflammation is a major contributor to atherosclerosis development and progression. We previously reported that the induction of the proinflammatory molecule TRAF3IP2 (TRAF3 Interacting Protein 2) or inhibition of the matrix metallopeptidase (MMP) regulator RECK (REversion Inducing Cysteine Rich Protein with Kazal Motifs) contributes to pro-oxidant, proinflammatory, pro-mitogenic and pro-migratory effects in response to external stimuli in vascular smooth muscle cells. Here we hypothesized that EF24, a curcumin analog with a better bioavailability and bioactivity profile, reverses interleukin (IL)-18-induced TRAF3IP2 induction, RECK suppression and the proinflammatory phenotype of primary human aortic smooth muscle cells (ASMC). The exposure of ASMC to functionally active recombinant human IL-18 (10 ng/mL) upregulated TRAF3IP2 mRNA and protein expression, but markedly suppressed RECK in a time-dependent manner. Further investigations revealed that IL-18 inhibited both miR-30a and miR-342 in a p38 MAPK- and JNK-dependent manner, and while miR-30a mimic blunted IL-18-induced TRAF3IP2 expression, miR-342 mimic restored RECK expression. Further, IL-18 induced ASMC migration, proliferation and proinflammatory phenotype switching, and these effects were attenuated by TRAF3IP2 silencing, and the forced expression of RECK or EF24. Together, these results suggest that the curcumin analog EF24, either alone or as an adjunctive therapy, has the potential to delay the development and progression of atherosclerosis and other vascular inflammatory and proliferative diseases by differentially regulating TRAF3IP2 and RECK expression in ASMC.
Chronic intermittent hypoxia (IH), a characteristic feature of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), contributes to cardiovascular diseases, including atherosclerosis, potentially through persistent oxidative stress and inflammation. TRAF3IP2 (TRAF3 Interacting Protein 2) is an oxidative stress-responsive proinflammatory adapter molecule and plays a causal role in a preclinical model of atherosclerosis. Since SGLT2 (Sodium/Glucose Cotransporter 2) inhibitors have shown protective effects in CVD by inhibiting oxidative stress and inflammation, we hypothesized that IH promotes the crosstalk between oxidative stress and TRAF3IP2, resulting in IL-6-dependent human aortic smooth muscle cell (SMC) proliferation, and that these effects are inhibited by the SGLT2 inhibitor empagliflozin.Primary human aortic SMC were exposed to various cycles of IH. Normoxia served as a control. To understand the molecular mechanisms underlying IH-induced nitroxidative stress, TRAF3IP2 and IL-6 induction, and SMC proliferation and those targeted by empagliflozin were determined by treating SMC with various pharmacological inhibitors and viral vectors.IH upregulated TRAF3IP2 expression, TRAF3IP2-dependent superoxide, hydrogen peroxide and nitric oxide generation, NF-κB and HIF-1α activation, IL-6 induction, and SMC proliferation. Exposure to IL-6 by itself induced SMC proliferation in part via TRAF3IP2, IL-6R, gp130, JAK, and STAT3. Further, SMC express SGLT2 at basal conditions, and is upregulated by both IH and IL-6. Importantly, empagliflozin inhibited IH-induced TRAF3IP2 upregulation, reactive oxygen and nitrogen species generation, TRAF3IP2-dependent HIF-1α and NF-κB activation, IL-6 induction, and IL-6-dependent JAK-STAT3-mediated SMC proliferation. Moreover, empagliflozin inhibited IL-6-induced STAT3-dependent SMC proliferation.These results suggest the therapeutic potential of empagliflozin in IH and inflammatory vascular proliferative diseases associated with OSA.
Increased vascularization, also known as neoangiogenesis, plays a major role in many cancers, including glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), by contributing to their aggressive growth and metastasis. Although anti-angiogenic therapies provide some clinical improvement, they fail to significantly improve the overall survival of GBM patients. Since various pro-angiogenic mediators drive GBM, we hypothesized that identifying targetable genes that broadly inhibit multiple pro-angiogenic mediators will significantly promote favorable outcomes. Here, we identified TRAF3IP2 (TRAF3-interacting protein 2) as a critical regulator of angiogenesis in GBM. We demonstrated that knockdown of TRAF3IP2 in an intracranial model of GBM significantly reduces vascularization. Targeting TRAF3IP2 significantly downregulated VEGF, IL6, ANGPT2, IL8, FZGF2, PGF, IL1β, EGF, PDGFRB, and VEGFR2 expression in residual tumors. Our data also indicate that exogenous addition of VEGF partially restores angiogenesis by TRAF3IP2-silenced cells, suggesting that TRAF3IP2 promotes angiogenesis through VEGF- and non-VEGF-dependent mechanisms. These results indicate the anti-angiogenic and anti-tumorigenic potential of targeting TRAF3IP2 in GBM, a deadly cancer with limited treatment options.Copyright © 2022 Izadpanah, Daneshimehr, Willingham, Barabadi, Braun, Dumont, Mostany, Chandrasekar, Alt and Izadpanah.
In our previous study, we found that lncRNA TRAF3IP2 antisense RNA 1 (TRAF3IP2-AS1) could play a critical role in the progression of NONO-TFE3 translocation renal cell carcinoma (NONO-TFE3 tRCC). However, the function of TRAF3IP2 (TRAF3 interacting protein 2), encoded by the complementary strand of TRAF3IP2-AS1, remains poorly understood in NONO-TFE3 tRCC.Immunohistochemistry, western blot, and qRT-PCR were undertaken to study the expression and clinical significance of TRAF3IP2 in Xp11.2 tRCC tissues and cells. The functions of TRAF3IP2 in tRCC were investigated by proliferation analysis, EdU staining, colony and sphere formation assay, Transwell assay, and apoptosis analysis. The regulatory mechanisms among TRAF3IP2, NOTCH1, and TRAF3IP2-AS1 were investigated by luciferase assay, RNA immunoprecipitation, western blot, methylated DNA Immunoprecipitation, and CRISPR/dCas9-based system.The results showed that TRAF3IP2 was highly expressed in NONO-TFE3 tRCC tissues and cells, and the silence of TRAF3IP2 inhibited the proliferation, migration, and invasion of UOK109 cells which were derived from cancer tissue of patient with NONO-TFE3 tRCC. Mechanistic studies revealed that TRAF3IP2 functioned as a co-activator of NOTCH1 to activate the NOTCH1 pathway. Meanwhile, HNRNPK, DNMT1 and SETDB1 could be recruited by TRAF3IP2-AS1 to the promoter region of TRAF3IP2, which mediated 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5mC) on DNA and trimethylated lysine 9 of histone H3 (H3K9me3) at transcriptional level to repress the expression of TRAF3IP2.TRAF3IP2 functions as an oncogene in NONO-TFE3 tRCC progression and might serve as a novel target for NONO-TFE3 tRCC therapy.© 2022. The Author(s).
TRAF3 interacting protein 2 (TRAF3IP2) (Act1) is an adapter protein that interacts with IL-17R via its similar expression to fibroblast growth factor genes and IL-17R domain and coordinates 2 separate proinflammatory pathways following IL-17 cytokine stimulation.We sought to elucidate the immunologic consequences of TRAF3IP2 homozygous mutations to improve treatments for immunodeficiency patients with chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis.We describe 2 patients presenting with chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis who harbor biallelic nonsense mutations in TRAF3IP2. The cellular and molecular features of this genetic defect were assessed using in vitro cytokine assays and protein analysis.We show that the homozygous mutation causes complete loss of protein expression. We also show that the absence of TRAF3IP2 was associated with a defective response to combined IL-2/IL-25 (IL-17E) stimulation.Failure to initiate normal signaling downstream of IL-17R engagement likely contributes to the patients' recurrent fungal infections. These findings add to our molecular understanding of genetic defects affecting this critical pathway of antifungal immunity.Published by Elsevier Inc.
The present study aimed to investigate the effects of interleukin-17 (IL-17) on the function of keratinocytes and to further investigate its associated mechanism. Human immortalized epidermal cells (HaCaT) were divided into sham control group (Sham), TRAF3 interacting protein 2 (TRAF3IP2)-knockdown with lentivirus group (si-TRAF3IP2), sham control+IL-17 group (Sham+IL-17) and TRAF3IP2-knockdown with lentivirus+IL-17 group (si-TRAF3IP2+IL-17). MTT and flow cytometry assays demonstrated that IL-17 promoted proliferation and inhibited apoptosis of HaCaT cells, while this effect was reversed following knockdown of TRAF3IP2 with lentiviral vectors. In addition, a marked increase in the levels of IL-6, IL-8, IL-23, TNF-α and VEGF was observed in the Sham+IL-17 group compared with that noted in the Sham group (P<0.05). Furthermore, reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction and western blotting indicated that the mRNA and protein expression levels of caspase-3 in the si-TRAF3IP2+IL-17 group were significantly increased compared with those of the Sham+IL-17 group (P<0.05). Taken together, the results indicated that IL-17 promoted proliferation and inflammation and inhibited apoptosis of HaCaT cells by interacting with the TRAF3IP2 adaptor protein, while knockdown of the expression of TRAF3IP2 reduced the effects of IL-17 in HaCaT cells.Copyright: © Zhang et al.
Secondary lymphedema is a debilitating complication following oncologic surgery, characterized by progressive tissue fibrosis and chronic inflammation. Although transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) has been established as a central mediator of fibrotic remodeling, the broader interplay between pro-inflammatory cytokines and downstream fibrotic signaling cascades in post-surgical lymphedematous tissue remains poorly understood.Skin and subcutaneous tissue biopsies were prospectively collected from 126 patients with unilateral breast cancer-related lymphedema and 58 matched controls across three tertiary centers between January 2024 and December 2025. Tissue specimens were analyzed using immunohistochemistry, quantitative real-time PCR, multiplex cytokine profiling, and Western blotting. Correlations between cytokine expression, fibrotic markers, and clinical severity were evaluated.Lymphedematous tissues exhibited significantly elevated expression of TGF-β1, interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-13 (IL-13), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) compared with controls (all P < 0.01). Concurrent activation of Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling pathways was observed, with both correlating positively with disease severity. Multivariate regression identified TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 as independent predictors of fibrotic burden, whereas TNF-α lost significance after adjustment for confounders. Lymphatic vessel density was inversely associated with cytokine levels and fibrotic severity.Secondary upper extremity lymphedema following breast cancer surgery is driven by a coordinated inflammatory and fibrotic axis involving TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 through convergent Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling. These findings support the development of multi-pathway therapeutic strategies beyond single-agent anti-fibrotic approaches for post-surgical lymphedema.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study investigates the potential mechanisms through which the Rhubarb-Peach Kernel herb pair may exert effects in gastric cancer (GC) using network pharmacology and molecular docking approaches. Active compounds and their corresponding targets were retrieved from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology Database and Analysis Platform (TCMSP), with additional compound-target information obtained from DrugBank. Gastric cancer-related targets were collected from GeneCards, Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM), the Therapeutic Target Database, and DrugBank. The overlapping targets were used to construct a compound-target-disease network and a protein-protein interaction network. Gene ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analyses were subsequently performed. Nine candidate compounds were docked against 8 core targets to assess their predicted structural interactions. A total of 27 active compounds were identified, among which β-sitosterol, aloe-emodin, and hederagenin were identified as major candidate compounds. Tumor protein p53, caspase 3, and JUN were among the principal network targets. Enrichment analysis indicated that the overlapping targets were mainly associated with the p53 signaling pathway and other pathways involved in cancer-related processes, including apoptosis, cell survival, and inflammatory regulation. Molecular docking revealed differences in predicted binding scores among the 9 candidate compounds and 8 core targets, with several compound-target pairs showing comparatively lower docking energies. This in silico study suggests that the Rhubarb-Peach Kernel herb pair may act through multiple compounds, targets, and biological pathways relevant to GC. However, the identified targets are not necessarily specific to GC, and the molecular docking findings represent computational predictions rather than evidence of actual biological binding. These results should therefore be considered preliminary and hypothesis-generating, and further in vitro and in vivo studies are required to evaluate their biological and therapeutic relevance.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565580 is a review article
Systemic sclerosis is an autoimmune fibrotic skin disease characterised by immune activation and fibrosis. Fibroblasts are at the core of this fibrotic process, differentiating into effector myofibroblasts; however, the drivers of this process remain obscure. Recently, metabolic changes in cells in fibrotic diseases have been uncovered, with changes in the TCA cycle and glycolysis being observed.The objective of this work was to elucidate the role of the glycolytic enzyme pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) in systemic sclerosis.Serum from early diffuse systemic sclerosis (SSc) patients and healthy controls (HC) was collected for PKM2 analysis by ELISA. Fibroblasts were isolated from HC and SSc biopsies and treated with transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) to assess PKM2 expression. PKM2 was pharmacologically modulated, and collagen and Extracellular Matrix (ECM) regulators were evaluated. Metabolic activity was assessed using Seahorse assays, and lactate transport was chemically inhibited. Chromatin immunoprecipitation was performed using a histone lactylation-specific or isotype antibody, and lactate or acetate supplementation experiments were conducted.We found significantly elevated circulating and fibroblast PKM2 in SSc patients. Fibroblast PKM2 could be induced in healthy fibroblasts by TGF-β1 exposure. Furthermore, PKM2 drives a metabolic shift to glycolysis that can be blocked by forced tetramerisation of PKM2 from its dimeric form; this resulted in reduced ECM and matrix regulators. Mechanistically, PKM2-mediated glycolysis results in elevated lactate, which drives collagen via epigenetic regulation by histone H3K18 lactylation. Blockade of PKM2 dimerisation reduced Histone H3 at Lysine 18 (H3K18) lactylation at the collagen promoter, which could be restored with lactate but not acetate. We further demonstrated that lactate-induced collagen is partially mediated by HIF-1α.PKM2 drives activation of fibroblasts in SSc via metabolic changes such as glycolysis. Taking advantage of PKM2 tetramerisation or blockade of lactate generation could be a possible therapeutic option in a disease with few treatment options.Copyright © 2026 Steadman and O’Reilly.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is a one of the common microvascular complication of diabetes that involves oxidative stress, inflammation, activation and overexpression of Nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB), and chronic renal dysfunction. In this study, we evaluated the renoprotective role of perillaldehyde (PA) in protecting kidneys from diabetic nephropathy using in vitro and in vivo models of Streptozotocin-induced diabetic nephropathy. PA pre-treatment of NRK-52E cells under high-glucose conditions resulted in a significant reduction of reactive oxygen species formation, up-regulation of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), suppression of Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (Keap1), and elevation of antioxidant enzyme biomarkers, such as heme oxygenase 1, superoxide dismutase 1, and NAD(P)H dehydrogenase quinone 1. PA also inhibited the overexpression of NF-κB, inducible nitric oxide synthase, and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase in high-glucose exposed NRK-52E cells. Administration of PA (35 and 70 mg/kg) to streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats showed beneficial effects on renal function parameters such as creatinine and blood urea nitrogen. PA treatment attenuated glomerular and tubular structural damage, as evidenced by H&E and PAS staining. At molecular level, PA was found to maintain the redox balance in the kidneys by stimulating the Nrf2/Keap1/HO-1 signalling pathway and inhibiting the NF-κB-dependent inflammatory response. Moreover, PA lowered lipid peroxidation and enhanced antioxidant status via reduction in MDA and elevation in GSH. The above results indicated that PA showed considerable reno-protective actions through coordinated regulation of both oxidative stress and inflammation pathways in experimental models of diabetic nephropathy.© 2026 International Federation of Cell Biology.
Among all RET proto-oncogene variants, Y791F has been the most controversial and widely debated with regard to itspathogenicity and clinical significance.Medical records of 104 RET Y791F variant carriers were retrospectively analyzed. The population comprised 30 probands with medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC), 6 probands with pheochromocytoma, 63 family members, and 5 patients in whomthe RET Y791F variant was found during genetic screening. The characteristics of the 30 RET Y791F carriers with MTC were comparedwith those of the control group of 208 patients with sporadic MTC.The median age at surgery in the 30 probands with MTC was 58 years (range: 20-79), and in the control group with sporadic MTC it was 55 years (range: 21-80), with no statistically significant difference (p = 0.16). Multifocal MTC was observed in 8 of 30 operatedprobands (26%) and in 29 of 208 patients (13.9%) with sporadic disease (p = 0.07). Prophylactic surgery was performed in 21 familymembers. No MTC was identified in the postoperative material. Among patients under surveillance, none of the RET Y791F carriersshowed any abnormalities on thyroid ultrasound or any increase in calcitonin concentration. None of the followed-up patients (except 6after adrenalectomy) was diagnosed with pheochromocytoma. None of the 104 RET Y791F carriers had hypercalcemia.Based on our results, individuals with the RET Y791F variant do not require enhanced clinical surveillance or prophylactic intervention and should be managed according to general population guidelines, unless additional clinical indications arise.
The RET proto-oncogene plays a critical role in multiple cancers and developmental disorders, where nonsynonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (nsSNPs) may alter protein stability, function, and therapeutic response. In this study, a total of 28,335 SNPs from the NCBI dbSNP database, including 2377 nsSNPs, were systematically analyzed using 10 in silico prediction tools. Among these 33 high-risk variants were identified with 28 predicted to destabilize RET protein. Further structural and functional analyses highlighted 11 potentially pathogenic nsSNPs (R721G, A756D, Y791C, E734K, E805K, F893L, R897Q, R897G, R912Q, R912G, and M918T), predominantly clustered within the tyrosine kinase domain, suggesting functional hotspots may contribute disease susceptibility. Molecular docking of eight RET inhibitors revealed mutation-specific differences in drug binding affinity. Among the tested compounds, entrectinib exhibited consistently strong binding affinities across all variants (-9.7 to -10.7 kcal/mol), whereas reduced binding affinities were observed for several inhibitors against E734K, A756D, and R897G variants. Molecular dynamics simulations further supported these findings, showing that A756D, E734K, and R897Q variants maintained comparatively stable conformations, whereas R897G and Y791C exhibited increased structural flexibility and destabilization. Survival analyses revealed that RET dysregulation correlates with poor prognosis in thyroid cancer, lung carcinoma, breast cancer, and sarcoma. Clinical databases reported that p.Met918Thr (pathogenic) and p.Arg897Gln (risk factor) emerged as significant variants linked to MEN2-related cancers and Hirschsprung disease. As a conclusion, this integrative in silico study identifies deleterious RET nsSNPs with potential structural, functional, and therapeutic significance providing mechanisms for precision oncology and future clinical investigation.Copyright © 2026 Nabilah Anzoom et al. Human Mutation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
To analyze the clinicopathological features and long-term outcomes of papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) patients with rearranged during transfection (RET) proto-oncogene fusion positive and to explore their genotype-phenotype associations and prognostic significance.A retrospective study was conducted on 828 PTC patients treated at Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center between January 2018 and December 2020. RET fusions, as well as BRAF and TERT promoter mutations, were primarily detected by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Demographic, clinicopathological, and follow-up data were obtained and analyzed to identify genotype-specific disease patterns.RET fusions were identified in 64 patients (7.7%). RET fusion-positive patients had a significantly greater proportion of pediatric and adolescent onset (12.5% vs. 0.7%; p < 0.001) and had larger tumors (34.4% vs. 10.1%, p < 0.001), higher rates of lateral cervical lymph node metastasis (64.1% vs. 24.6%, p < 0.001), distant metastasis (14.1% vs. 1.0%, p < 0.001), extrathyroidal extension (23.4% vs. 13.9%, p = 0.037), vascular invasion (17.2% vs. 3.9%, p < 0.001), perineural invasion (17.2% vs. 4.6%, p < 0.001), and extranodal extension (34.4% vs. 4.8%, p < 0.001) than their RET fusion-negative counterparts. The follow-up data indicated a higher rate of disease progression and poorer clinical outcomes in RET fusion-positive patients than in RET fusion-negative patients (21.9% vs. 2.6%, p < 0.001).RET fusion-positive PTC is associated with aggressive clinicopathological behavior and poor prognosis. This study highlights the importance of RET fusion testing in PTC for more accurate risk stratification and personalized therapeutic approaches, particularly for high-risk patients.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42297674 is a review article
Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A (MEN2A) is a rare autosomal dominant disorder associated with RET proto-oncogene mutations. Early diagnosis is absolutely critical for managing and preventing aggressive forms of medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) and associated tumours. Our aims are to confirm the clinical diagnosis and to detect, in relatives, those who bear the familial mutation in order to benefit from medical management before the first symptoms appear.We report a sporadic case of MEN2A in a 34-year-old woman from western Algeria. She presented with bilateral medullary thyroid carcinoma and a left pheochromocytoma.Genetic analysis by nextgeneration sequencing revealed a de novo heterozygous c.1901G>C (p.Cys634Ser) mutation in exon 11 of the RET gene. This is a well-known pathogenic variant associated with MEN2A.This case proves that RET genetic testing is vital in all cases of MTC, even in those without a family history, as de novo mutations can occur. The absence of this variant in the patient's first-degree relatives confirms the de novo origin, possibly linked to advanced paternal age.Systematic genetic screening and counselling are essential for the early diagnosis and appropriate management of MEN2A, particularly in sporadic cases. Broader implementation of molecular testing and genetic counselling in Algeria is recommended to improve patient outcomes and prevent transmission to future generations.
Conceptually, pitting hereditary mutations, pervading all cells of the body since conception, against the same sporadic mutations, acquired by tumor cells only later in life, could give valuable insights into tumorigenesis and tumor progression. This research sought to explore RET p.Cys634-driven tumorigenesis and progression which, preceding the time of clinical detection, cannot be measured directly.Comparative study of 14 previously untreated index patients with hereditary medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) and 15 previously untreated patients with sporadic MTC who presented with a diagnosis of MTC, for which they underwent initial neck surgery at a tertiary referral center.After Bonferroni correction for multiple testing, only few variables continued to differ significantly between RET p.Cys634-driven hereditary and sporadic MTC: age at thyroidectomy (medians of 33.5 vs. 54 years; P <0.001), and multifocal growth (79 vs. 7%, and medians of 2 foci vs. 1 focus; both P <0.001).The present investigation suggests that tumor progression in MTC before clinical detection is a function of the time passed since tumor onset, whereas tumor onset is defined by the transformatory strength of the RET mutation. This notion, debunking the myth of immanent tumor 'aggressiveness' or "risk" imparted by RET mutations in favor of the concept of genetically encoded tumor onset, emphasizes the need for early diagnosis and intervention, ideally while tumors are still confined to the thyroid.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Pancreatic cancer carries a poor prognosis, with few effective treatment options available. Various rearranged during transfection (RET) proto-oncogene fusions have been found in a small fraction of pancreatic cancers; however, the hook microtubule tethering protein 3 (HOOK3)-RET fusion has not yet been reported in the medical literature. The HOOK3-RET fusion was observed in a case of α-fetoprotein (AFP)-producing pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma with widespread hepatic and lymph node metastasis in a 51-year-old South Asian male. The patient's serum carbohydrate antigen 19.9 was mildly elevated: 96.28 U/ml (normal, <37 U/ml), but the serum AFP level was very high (16,410.0 ng/ml; normal, <6.6 ng/ml). The patient did not respond to gemcitabine and cisplatin-based systemic chemotherapy. Next-generation sequencing of the patient's biopsy sample revealed a HOOK3-RET fusion. RET proto-oncogene fusions trigger a cascade of oncogenic signals, which promote the proliferation and survival of cancer cells. Selpercatinib, a selective inhibitor of receptor tyrosine kinase RET, blocks RET kinase activity by binding to its adenosine triphosphate-binding site, thus preventing the kinase from phosphorylating substrates and halting oncogenic signaling. The patient was treated with selpercatinib, which produced a durable response lasting over 15 months in this chemotherapy-refractory patient, highlighting the efficacy of selpercatinib in HOOK3-RET fusion-positive pancreatic cancer.Copyright: © 2026 Sandhu et al.
Compound repurposing is an efficient method to save both time and costs by redirecting previously synthesized small molecules towards new biological targets. In this research, we employ computational methodologies to investigate and assess target engagement of small molecules as tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). Therefore, compounds TKI.2a, TKI.2b, TKI.6, TKI.16, TKI.19, and TKI.21b identified from our earlier research, undergo assessments of molecular similarity, docking studies, and pharmacophore modeling along with those discovered through database searches. Compounds TKI.2a, TKI.2b, TKI.6, and TKI.19 appear to exhibit multi-target tyrosine kinase inhibitory activities against VEGFR-2 (Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor), RET (proto-oncogene tyrosine-protein kinase receptor), PDGFRα (Platelet-Derived Growth Factor Receptor alpha), EGFR (Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor), and HER2 (Human Epidermal Receptor) receptors. Pharmacophore models were applied for ligand-based virtual screening using defined parameters to discover candidate compounds that exhibit drug-likeness with FDA (Food and Drug Administration)-approved tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Molecular docking studies identified lead compounds for each biological target based on their overall affinity values and established interactions. Compound ChEMBL2170947 was found to be the most promising candidate for the VEGFR-2 receptor, ChEMBL5019511 for PDGFRα, ChEMBL2216869 for EGFR, and ChEMBL3355044 for HER2.
Cutaneous lichen amyloidosis (CLA) is a rare dermatological condition characterized by amyloid deposition in the skin, presenting as pruritic, hyperkeratotic papules. Although most cases are sporadic, CLA has been associated with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A (MEN2A), a hereditary syndrome caused by germline alterations in the RET proto-oncogene. In MEN2A, CLA is typically localized to the interscapular region and linked to RET codon 634 variants, whereas generalized forms are rare. We report a male patient with MEN2A and a generalized form of CLA that preceded the diagnosis of primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) and medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC). Genetic testing using Sanger sequencing identified an ultra-rare heterozygous RET variant, p.Y806C, in exon 14, currently classified as a variant of uncertain significance (VUS). This variant has not been previously described in association with MEN2A. This case may contribute to understanding genotype-phenotype correlations in MEN2A and suggests that atypical or generalized CLA may be an early clinical clue warranting consideration of RET genetic testing.
Germline likely pathogenic or pathogenic variants (LP/PV) in the RET proto-oncogene account for approximately 25% of medullary thyroid cancers (MTCs). Depending on the variant, individuals with RET LP/PV can have > 70% lifetime risk for MTC or C-cell hyperplasia, an MTC precursor. We assessed prevalence and genotype-phenotype correlations of RET LP/PV in a pan-cancer population undergoing agnostic multigene germline cancer genetic testing.Patients with cancer at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center provided informed consent to Memorial Sloan Kettering-Integrated Mutation Profiling of Actionable Cancer Targets, a paired tumor-normal genomic sequencing protocol (ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01775072) from 2015 to 2023. Consent included multigene germline testing inclusive of RET. LP/PVs in RET were categorized per standardized MTC risk levels. Clinical data, including family history, surveillance results, and pathology, were extracted from medical records.Twenty-one of 31,866 patients harbored an LP/PV in the RET gene, with the most common variant being p.Val804Met (n = 10) of moderate risk. Although six patients had a personal history of MTC, 15 of 21 patients (71%) had neither a personal nor a family history of MTC. Of the 15, nine underwent endocrinology high-risk surveillance, with five patients deciding to proceed with thyroidectomy due to abnormal surveillance findings. Pathologic findings consisted of isolated C-cell hyperplasia only (n = 1), microMTC and C-cell hyperplasia (n = 2), stage I MTC and C-cell hyperplasia (n = 1), and stage IVA MTC (n = 1).In this pan-cancer cohort, 71% of RET LP/PV findings were incidental, with no prior personal or family history of MTC. High-risk surveillance and potential thyroidectomy are warranted in patients with an incidental germline RET LP/PV finding due to high rates of precursor lesions and MTC even among these patients.
2-Bromo-4,6-dinitroaniline (BDNA), a synthetic intermediate of brominated azo dyes, poses potential nephrotoxicity risks; however, its early molecular injury mechanisms remain elusive. This study integrated network toxicology prediction, machine learning algorithms (least absolute shrinkage and selection operator [LASSO], support vector machine recursive feature elimination [SVM-RFE], and random forest), and transcriptomic data mining with a 90-day subchronic male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rat exposure model to identify early biomarkers of BDNA-induced nephrotoxicity. Cross-validation of three algorithms identified CD45 (protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type C, PTPRC) and cyclophilin C (peptidylprolyl isomerase C, PPIC) as high-confidence core targets (training area under the curve [AUC] = 0.951; validation AUCs = 0.958 and 0.929). Single-gene gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) revealed PTPRC enrichment in immune-inflammatory pathways and PPIC in protein homeostasis-related pathways. Single-cell analysis confirmed their cell type-specific expression patterns. Subchronic BDNA exposure induced dose-dependent renal tubular epithelial injury with significant upregulation of both targets, without interstitial fibrosis or glomerulosclerosis in male SD rats. PTPRC and PPIC may serve as potential early response biomarkers for BDNA-induced renal tubular injury, involving immune-inflammatory activation and proteostasis imbalance. This study establishes an integrative toxicological framework from computational prediction to experimental validation, while acknowledging that causal roles require further functional verification.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cardiac fibrosis is a defining pathological feature of diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM), and excessive activation of cardiac fibroblasts plays a critical role in regulating cardiomyocyte function through paracrine signaling. CCN1 (cellular communication network factor 1), an extracellular matrix protein involved in intercellular communication, has been suggested to influence cardiac remodeling, although its specific impact on cardiomyocytes in DCM has remained unclear. In this study, we found that CCN1 expression was markedly elevated in cardiac tissues from DCM mouse models and in insulin-resistant cell models, with fibroblasts serving as the primary source. Proteomic analysis and co-culture experiments demonstrated that CCN1 suppressed cardiomyocyte macroautophagy/autophagy. To determine its role in vivo, we generated fibroblast-specific ccn1 knockout mice and established a DCM model, demonstrating that ccn1 deletion ameliorated cardiac dysfunction and restored autophagic activity. We further identified ITGAV-ITGB1/integrin αvβ1 as the receptor mediating CCN1 signaling in cardiomyocytes. Molecular dynamics simulations and co-immunoprecipitation experiments confirmed that CCN1 engaged ITGAV-ITGB1/integrin αvβ1 through its cysteine-knot-containing (CT) domain. Mechanistically, this interaction activated the downstream PTK2/FAK-MTOR signaling pathway, leading to inhibition of cardiomyocyte autophagy. Together, these findings reveal a previously unrecognized fibroblast-cardiomyocyte signaling axis in which fibroblast-derived CCN1 drives DCM progression by suppressing autophagy through ITGAV-ITGB1/integrin αvβ1-dependent signaling. This work provides mechanistic insight into the pathogenesis of DCM and identifies CCN1 as a potential therapeutic target for mitigating disease onset and progression.Abbreviations: AAV9: adeno-associated virus serotype 9; ADGRE1/EMR1/F4/80: adhesion G protein-coupled receptor E1; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BSA: bovine serum albumin; C8: compound 8; CCN1: cellular communication network factor 1; CF: cardiac fibroblast; CSA: cross-sectional area; DCM: diabetic cardiomyopathy; EIF4EBP1: eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; HE: hematoxylin and eosin; HFD: high-fat diet; HG: high glucose; IR: insulin resistance; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MD: molecular dynamics; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; NRCM: neonatal rat cardiomyocyte; PDGFRA: platelet derived growth factor receptor alpha; PECAM1/CD31: platelet and endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1; PTK2/FAK: protein tyrosine kinase 2; PTPRC/CD45: protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type C; RPS6KB1: ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1; S100A4/FSP1: S100 calcium binding protein A4; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STZ: streptozotocin; TUNEL: terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling; WGA: wheat germ agglutinin.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is widely recognized as the most prevalent degenerative disorder affecting the joints, representing a major contributor to chronic pain and disability. Despite its high burden, the molecular mechanisms underlying OA pathogenesis remain poorly understood, particularly in the context of immune microenvironment modulation. This study explores the immune-related OA progression mechanisms and investigates potential biomarkers to aid diagnosis and therapeutic intervention.Gene expression data from the GEO database were analyzed, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and OA-associated gene modules were identified using the LIMMA package in combination with weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA). Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses were conducted on intersecting genes, which were analyzed using the protein-protein interaction network, XGBoost, and Random Forest, identifying core genes. Subsequently, immune cell infiltration was determined through immune cell infiltration analysis and single-cell sequencing analysis. Next, core genes were validated using Mendelian randomization (MR) and Western blotting (WB). Finally, in vitro validation confirmed key findings.A total of 1,171 upregulated DEGs were identified. WGCNA analysis delineated 25 co-expression modules, and the turquoise module emerged as the most strongly related to OA. The PPI network, XGBoost, and Random Forest analysis pinpointed three hub genes: protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type C (PTPRC), C-X3-C Motif Chemokine Receptor 1 (CX3CR1) and Integrin Subunit Beta 2 (ITGB2). Immune cell infiltration analysis indicates that these key genes exhibit significant associations with immune cells, while single-cell sequencing and GSEA enrichment analysis further suggested their involvement in inflammatory pathways and immune activation. In vitro experiments demonstrate that one of the hub genes-PTPRC-alleviates the deterioration of OA through three levels. Virtual knockout in Natural Killer (NK) cells further confirms that PTPRC influences OA by regulating the immune microenvironment.This study identified three promising biomarkers in OA and certificated that PTPRC plays a pivotal role in alleviating OA progression through immunomodulation, offering a novel intervention pathway for tissue engineering combined with immunomodulatory therapy in OA.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Wang, Tan, Yu and Liu.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a progressive joint disease characterized by cartilage degradation, synovial inflammation, and limited regenerative capacity. Adipose-derived stem cell exosomes (ADSC-Exo) represent a promising cell-free therapeutic approach due to their immunomodulatory properties.Gluteal ADSC-Exo were isolated and characterized by nanoparticle tracking analysis and Western blotting. Their effects were evaluated in vitro in human chondrocytes, fibroblast-like synoviocytes, and THP-1-derived macrophages using proliferation, migration, immunofluorescence, Seahorse metabolic analysis, and RNA sequencing. In vivo, OA was induced in mice by destabilization of the medial meniscus (DMM) and treated with ADSC-Exo, a protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type C (PTPRC/CD45) inhibitor alone, or in combination. Cartilage pathology and inflammation were assessed by histology, Osteoarthritis Research Society International (OARSI) scoring, immunohistochemistry, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. CRISPR/Cas9-mediated deletion of PTPRC was performed in M1-polarized macrophages to validate mechanistic involvement.ADSC-Exo enhanced cell proliferation, migration, and extracellular matrix gene expression while suppressing catabolic markers under inflammatory conditions. ADSC-Exo promoted macrophage polarization toward an anti-inflammatory M2 phenotype, reduced pro-inflammatory cytokine production, and shifted macrophage metabolism toward oxidative phosphorylation. Transcriptomic analysis identified PTPRC as a consistently downregulated target. Genetic deletion of PTPRC attenuated inflammatory and glycolytic gene expression and reduced chondrocyte catabolic responses. In the DMM model, ADSC-Exo preserved cartilage structure, reduced OARSI scores, and suppressed synovial PTPRC expression and inflammatory mediators; these effects were selectively attenuated by PTPRC inhibition.Gluteal ADSC-Exo exert potent anti-inflammatory and chondroprotective effects through immunometabolic reprogramming of macrophages, with PTPRC identified as a key mediator, supporting their translational potential for OA therapy.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
The extensive use of antibiotics in intensive farming weakens immunity and threatens food safety. Stevia isochlorogenic acid (SICA), a kind of dicaffeoylquinic acid derived from stevia residue, exhibits strong antioxidant activity. This study evaluated the ability of SICA to improve immune function in an immunosuppressed broiler model. SICA significantly increased the spleen, thymus, and bursa of Fabricius indices (p < 0.05), alleviated spleen damage, and elevated serum interleukin-2 (IL-2), IL-4, interferon-γ, IL-1β, tumor necrosis factor-α, immunoglobulins (IgA, IgM, IgG), and complement components C3 and C4 (p < 0.05). Isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification-based proteomics indicated that SICA enhanced splenic immune function by activating cell adhesion molecules, phagosomes, and the intestinal immune network for IgA production pathways. Quantitative PCR analysis showed upregulation of mRNA and protein levels of B-cell receptor, major histocompatibility complex class II, protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type C, and neutrophil cytosolic factor 2 (p67phox) and downregulation of C-C motif chemokine receptor 9. Molecular docking demonstrated the strongest binding affinity between SICA and p67phox. Overall, SICA effectively alleviated immunosuppression in broiler chickens and represents a promising natural alternative to antibiotic feed additives.
To investigate the regulatory mechanism by which MicroRNA-582-3p (miR-582-3p) targets protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type C-associated protein (PTPRCAP) and modulates Wnt/β-catenin signaling in lung adenocarcinoma pathogenesis.Bioinformatics analysis of TCGA data assessed miR-582-3p expression and its clinicopathological relevance in LUAD. PTPRCAP mRNA and protein levels were evaluated via RT-qPCR and immunohistochemistry. The miR-582-3p-PTPRCAP interaction was validated using TargetScan8.0 and dual-luciferase reporter assays. Functional assays (CCK-8, scratch, Transwell) determined the effects of miR-582-3p and PTPRCAP on LUAD cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Western blotting analyzed Wnt/β-catenin pathway components (β-catenin, GSK3β, p-GSK3β).miR-582-3p was significantly upregulated in LUAD tissues and cell lines (A549, H1299), correlating with advanced disease features. PTPRCAP, a predicted target of miR-582-3p, showed reduced expression in LUAD. Dual-luciferase assays confirmed miR-582-3p directly binds the PTPRCAP 3'-UTR (P < 0.05). Overexpressing miR-582-3p suppressed PTPRCAP, enhanced malignant phenotypes (P < 0.05), and activated Wnt/β-catenin signaling (increased β-catenin and p-GSK3β; decreased GSK3β). Conversely, PTPRCAP overexpression inhibited tumorigenic behaviors and Wnt pathway activity. Rescue experiments demonstrated that PTPRCAP restoration counteracted miR-582-3p-mediated oncogenic effects (P < 0.05).Our findings reveal a novel miR-582-3p/PTPRCAP/Wnt/β-catenin axis in LUAD progression, where miR-582-3p drives tumor growth by silencing PTPRCAP and activating Wnt signaling. These results highlight miR-582-3p as a potential therapeutic target and PTPRCAP as a tumor suppressor in LUAD, offering new insights for targeted intervention strategies.Copyright © 2025 Yang, Zhao, Han, Guo, Zhao and Liang.
Heart failure (HF), characterized by maladaptive cardiac fibrosis and progressive functional deterioration, remains a therapeutic challenge. In this study, we established a cardiac organoid HF model derived from human-induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) and observed a significant downregulation of the desmosomal protein plakophilin-2 (PKP2) in this model. Reduced PKP2 expression was detected in both HF rat and mouse. Subsequent in vivo studies on Pkp2-knockout (Pkp2-KO) rats demonstrated that adeno-associated virus serotype 9 (AAV9)-mediated restoration of PKP2 not only restored cardiac PKP2 expression but also attenuated the progression of fibrosis. Administration of AAV9-PKP2 could also inhibit myocardial fibrosis and slow down disease progression in HF mouse. Single-cell RNA sequencing analysis in rats revealed enriched pathological profibrotic cardiac fibroblasts (CFs) in PKP2-deficient myocardium. Mechanistically, AAV9-PKP2 administration induced the phenotypic conversion of activated CFs into quiescent antifibrotic states. Integrated bioinformatics identified that protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type C (Ptprc) was a pivotal regulator orchestrating this cellular reprogramming. Our findings thus unveil PKP2 as a master regulator of fibroblast activation and propose AAV9-PKP2 gene therapy as a promising novel therapeutic strategy targeting pathological fibrosis in HF.© 2025 The Author(s). MedComm published by Sichuan International Medical Exchange & Promotion Association (SCIMEA) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Previously, we demonstrated that the ketone body, β-hydroxybutyrate, is a potent antihypertensive and reno-protective metabolite in Dahl Salt-Sensitive rats. However, the mechanism by which β-hydroxybutyrate confers these beneficial effects is understudied. Here we focused on determining whether the reno-protective effect of β-hydroxybutyrate is due to its known ability to epigenetically remodel chromatin via histone β-hydroxybutyrylation.We used the same animal protocol previously used for the discovery of the reno-protective effect of β-hydroxybutyrate. Briefly, postweaning, male and female Dahl Salt-Sensitive rats were split into 2 groups and supplemented with or without 1,3-butanediol for 6 weeks. At euthanasia, circulating β-hydroxybutyrate was quantitated. Renal homogenates were examined for histone 3 lysine 9 β-hydroxybutyrylation, chromatin occupancy, transcriptomic and proteomic profiles with validations.Rats supplemented with 1,3-butanediol had higher circulating β-hydroxybutyrate, renal histone β-hydroxybutyrylation, and significant remodeling of chromatin. Notably, regions of the genome associated with lipid catabolism were predominantly in an open chromatin configuration, leading to active transcription and translation. The most highly upregulated gene actively transcribed and translated was Hmgcs2 (3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl CoA synthase 2), a gene responsible for the biosynthesis of β-hydroxybutyrate in mitochondria. In contrast, regions with more compact chromatin structures contained immune function genes, Ptprc (protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type C) and Lcp1 (lymphocyte cytosolic protein 1), which were suppressed.These results reveal that renal epigenetic histone β-hydroxybutyrylation is a novel mechanism by which transcriptional regulation of both energy metabolism and immune function occur concomitantly and contribute to renoprotection in the hypertensive Dahl rat.
This study employed a network toxicology strategy to elucidate the toxic mechanisms of polyethylene terephthalate microplastics (PET-MPs) on atherosclerosis (AS). AS is a chronic inflammatory vascular disease that may be aggravated by PET-MPs. By integrating network toxicology, molecular docking, and transcriptome analysis, tumor necrosis factor (TNF), chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4), CX3C chemokine receptor 1 (CX3CR1), and protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type C (PTPRC) were identified as core interaction genes between PET and AS. Through bio-enrichment analysis, we discovered that the toxicity of PET is primarily associated with the cascade reaction of vascular inflammation and abnormal macrophage activation. Molecular docking experiments confirmed a strong binding affinity between PET and these targets (<-5.0 kcal/mol). In vitro results showed that PET significantly increased the mRNA levels of TNF-α, CXCR4, CX3CR1, and PTPRC, triggering an inflammatory response and causing chemokine receptor dysfunction. In an AS mouse model, increased aortic plaque area and aortic valve collagen deposition were observed, along with elevated expression of core target genes' mRNA, even without direct exposure to PET-MPs, exhibiting effects consistent with those seen in vitro. Collectively, these studies suggest that PET can induce inflammatory responses and disrupt immune system balance by regulating the expression levels of TNF, CXCR4, CX3CR1, and PTPRC, thus promoting the progression of atherosclerotic diseases. This paper provides the first comprehensive investigation into the impact and mechanisms of microplastics on AS, demonstrating how PET contributes to its development and establishing a basis for identifying new therapeutic targets for cardiovascular diseases linked to microplastics.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study leverages integrative bioinformatics and Mendelian randomization (MR) to uncover pivotal diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets for subacute spinal cord injury (SCI), offering actionable insights for precision medicine.Transcriptomic data from rat models (GSE166009, GSE183591, GSE45006) were analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes, followed by enrichment and protein-protein interaction network analyses to pinpoint hub genes. Cross-species validation was performed in mouse (GSE249615), rat (GSE174549), and human (GSE151371) datasets. Receiver-operating characteristic curve analysis assessed diagnostic potential, and drug prediction identified therapeutic candidates. Causal relationships were validated using multivariable MR.A total of 640 differentially expressed genes were identified, enriched in critical pathways such as nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells signaling, mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling, and extracellular matrix-receptor interactions. Nine hub genes were identified, 5 of which (toll-like receptor 4, intercellular adhesion molecule 1, cluster of differentiation 44, protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type C, and allograft inflammatory factor 1) demonstrated robust cross-species expression patterns and diagnostic potential in human datasets. Drug prediction identified genistein, isoflavone, and dimethyl sulfoxide as promising candidates for modulating inflammation, reducing glial scarring, and promoting axonal repair. Key pathways, including nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells signaling, extracellular matrix-receptor interaction, and hematopoietic cell lineage, were implicated in establishing a regenerative microenvironment. Multivariable MR analysis revealed intercellular adhesion molecule 1 as a protective factor in SCI, further supporting its therapeutic relevance.This study uncovers key molecular targets, pathways, and drugs for SCI recovery, providing a framework for precision therapeutics.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study aimed to evaluate the neuroprotective effects of Yukgunja-Tang (Liujunzi Decoction, YGJT) in a bilateral common carotid artery stenosis (BCAS)-induced mouse model of vascular dementia and to explore its potential as a multi-target intervention. Male C57BL/6 mice were subjected to BCAS to induce vascular dementia and were divided into sham-operated, BCAS control, YGJT 40 mL/kg, and YGJT 80 mL/kg groups. YGJT or distilled water was administered orally three times per week for six weeks, starting two weeks after surgery. Cognitive function was assessed using the Y-maze test and the novel object recognition test (NORT). Astrocytic and microglial activation were evaluated by immunofluorescence staining, and transcriptomic changes were analyzed using RNA sequencing. In the NORT, the YGJT 80 mL/kg group demonstrated a significant improvement in BCAS-induced cognitive impairment compared with the BCAS control group. Immunofluorescence analysis demonstrated a significant reduction in microglial activation in the cerebral cortex and white matter following YGJT treatment. RNA sequencing revealed that approximately 70.1% of genes dysregulated by BCAS surgery were restored toward baseline expression levels in the YGJT 80 mL/kg group. Protein-protein interaction network analysis identified several hub proteins, including plasminogen (Plg), caspase-1 (Casp1), cluster of differentiation 36 (CD36), C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 5 (Cxcr5), cluster of differentiation 14 (CD14), and cytochrome P450 family 2 subfamily C member 29 (Cyp2c29). These findings suggest that YGJT may be a multi-component intervention associated with changes in neuroinflammatory and transcriptomic patterns under chronic cerebral hypoperfusion, and may have potential relevance for the management of vascular cognitive impairment.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Ly49⁺ CD8⁺ T cells restricted by Qa-1 or major histocompatibility complex (MHC)/peptide can function as immune suppressors in autoimmune diseases and chronic activation-associated tissue damage. In organ transplantation, a C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 5+ (CXCR5⁺) Ly49⁺ CD8⁺ T cell subset reportedly suppresses CD4⁺ T cell activation via Qa-1 recognition, thereby inhibiting donor-specific antibody (DSA) production and promoting heart graft survival, particularly under CD80/86-CD28 co-stimulation blockade. However, their precise role in anti-allogeneic responses remains unclear.We examined Ly49⁺ CD8⁺ T cell function in a murine cardiac transplant model and mixed lymphocyte reactions (MLRs), with or without antagonistic anti-CD80/86 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs).Both Ly49⁺ and Ly49- CD8⁺ T cells infiltrated grafts and produced IFN-γ. Anti-CD80/86 mAb treatment prolonged graft survival, reduced IFN-γ production, increased infiltration of cytotoxic Ly49⁺ CD8⁺ T cells, and upregulated immunosuppressive gene expression in accepted grafts. In MLRs, Ly49⁺ CD8⁺ T cells showed greater proliferation and IFN-γ production than Ly49- counterparts. Qa-1 blockade had no effect, whereas anti-CD80/86 mAb induced anergy. Ly49⁺ CD8⁺ T cells obtained after MLR with anti-CD80/86 mAbs were hyporesponsive to restimulation but exerted enhanced cytotoxicity against activated autologous T cells partly via Qa-1 interaction. Furthermore, these Ly49+ CD8+ T cells expressed lymphocyte activation gene-3 (LAG-3) and cytotoxic T-lymphocyte associated antigen 4 (CTLA-4), which contributed to the suppression of T cell proliferation.Ly49⁺ CD8⁺ T cells function as effectors in anti-allogeneic responses. CD80/86-CD28 blockade suppresses their effector functions while enhancing their Qa-1-dependent regulatory activity toward activated autologous T cells.Copyright © 2026 International Society for the Heart and Lung Transplantation. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Myocardial infarction (MI) is a high-prevalence disease that threatens human survival and quality of life worldwide. Considerable evidence has suggested that periodontitis (PD) is detrimental to MI. However, the direct impact of PD on MI is unclear; which oral pathobionts contribute to and how microbial signals regulate the pathogenesis of MI remain obscure.The effect of PD on MI was assessed in a mouse model that combined ligature-induced PD with MI. Ectopic accumulation of oral pathobionts in infarcted hearts was identified by bacterial sequencing and fluorescence in situ hybridization. Oral pathobionts-reactive B2 cells detrimental for MI were determined by flow cytometry and verified in gnotobiotic mice. Several mouse strains, including CD45.1, Kaede, and knockout strains for Ighm, Rag1, C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 13, S1pr, interleukin-6, and tumor necrosis factor-α, were used for mechanistical exploration. Mutant strains of Fusobacterium nucleatum and Porphyromonas gingivalis deficient in adhesion proteins were generated to investigate bacterial mechanism involved in MI exacerbation. Patients with MI with or without PD were recruited to test the deteriorating impact of PD on MI and the association between oral pathobionts and cardiac function.Ligature-induced PD and subgingival plaques of patients with PD exacerbated MI in mice by oral pathobionts. Prevotella intermedia, Fusobacterium nucleatum, Selenomonas sputigena, Porphyromonas gingivalis, and Bacteroides plebeius expanded in the oral cavity and ectopically accumulated in the infarcted hearts through impairment of epithelial and endothelial cell barriers. These oral pathobionts mobilized B cells, particularly B2 cells that produced interleukin-6 and tumor necrosis factor-α, to aggravate MI. Mechanistically, oral pathobiont-promoted B cells egress from cervical lymph nodes by a sphingosine-1-phosphate-sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor axis and infiltrate infarcted hearts by a C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 13-C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 5 axis.Oral pathobionts and proinflammatory B2 cells significantly exacerbate MI, supporting the oral-heart axis as a novel pathogenic pathway. Interventions targeting PD, oral pathobionts, or related immunological mechanisms may improve the therapy of MI.
β-arrestins are multifaceted adaptor proteins that mediate G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) desensitization, internalization, and signaling. It is emerging that receptor-specific determinants specify these divergent functions at GPCRs, yet this remains poorly understood. Here, we set out to identify the receptor determinants responsible for β-arrestin-mediated regulation of the chemokine receptor C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 5 (CXCR5). Using bioluminescence resonance energy transfer, we show that β-arrestin1 and β-arrestin2 are dose-dependently recruited to CXCR5 by its cognate ligand C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 13 (CXCL13). The carboxy-terminal tail of CXCR5 contains several serine/threonine residues that can be divided into three discrete phospho-site clusters based on their position relative to transmembrane domain 7. Mutagenesis experiments revealed that the distal and medial phospho-site clusters, but not the proximal, are required for agonist-stimulated β-arrestin1 or β-arrestin2 recruitment to CXCR5. Consistent with this, we provide evidence that the distal and medial, but not proximal, phospho-site clusters are required for receptor desensitization. Surprisingly, the individual phospho-site clusters are not required for agonist-stimulated internalization of CXCR5. Further, we show that CXCL13-stimulated CXCR5 internalization and ERK1/2 phosphorylation, but not desensitization, remain intact in human embryonic kidney 293 cells lacking β-arrestin1 and β-arrestin2. Our study provides evidence that β-arrestins are recruited to CXCR5 and are required for desensitization but are dispensable for internalization or signaling, suggesting that discrete receptor determinants specify the divergent functions of β-arrestins. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: C-X-C motif ligand 13 (CXCL13) and C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 5 (CXCR5) are important in the immune system and are linked to diseases, yet regulation of CXCR5 signaling remains poorly understood. We provide evidence that a phospho-site cluster located at the extreme distal carboxyl-terminal tail of the receptor is responsible for β-arrestin recruitment and receptor desensitization. β-arrestins are not required for CXCL13-stimulated internalization or signaling, indicating that β-arrestins perform only one of their functions at CXCR5 and that discrete receptor determinants specify the divergent functions of β-arrestins.Copyright © 2024 by The Author(s).
Follicular helper T (Tfh) cells promote B cell differentiation and antibody production in the B cell follicles of secondary lymphoid organs. Tfh cells express their signature transcription factor BCL6, interleukin (IL)-21, and surface molecules including inducible T cell costimulator (ICOS), programmed cell death-1 (PD-1), and C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 5 (CXCR5). Migration of Tfh cells to B cell follicles largely depends on the CXCR5 expression induced by interactions with antigen-presenting dendritic cells in the T cell area. How Tfh cells acquire sufficient levels of CXCR5 expression, however, has remained unclear. Using our in vitro culture system to generate CXCR5low Tfh-like cells from naive CD4+ T cells with IL-6 in the absence of other cell types, we found that the active form of vitamin D, calcitriol, markedly enhanced CXCR5 expression after the release from persistent T cell receptor (TCR) stimulation. CH-223191, an aryl hydrocarbon receptor antagonist, further enhanced CXCR5 expression. IL-12 but not IL-4, in place of IL-6, also supported calcitriol to enhance CXCR5 expression even before the release from TCR stimulation, whereas the cell viability sharply decreased after the release. The Tfh-like cells generated with IL-6 and calcitriol exhibited chemotaxis toward C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 13 (CXCL13), expressed IL-21, and helped B cells to produce IgG antibodies in vitro more efficiently than Tfh-like cells generated without added calcitriol. Calcitriol injections into antigen-primed mice increased the proportion of CXCR5+PD-1+CD4+ cells in their lymphoid organs, and enhanced T cell entry into B cell follicles. These results suggest that calcitriol promotes CXCR5 expression in developing Tfh cells and regulates their functional differentiation.© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Japanese Society for Immunology.
Fine mapping and bioinformatic analysis of the DDX6-CXCR5 genetic risk association in Sjögren's Disease (SjD) and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE) identified five common SNPs with functional evidence in immune cell types: rs4938573, rs57494551, rs4938572, rs4936443, rs7117261. Functional interrogation of nuclear protein binding affinity, enhancer/promoter regulatory activity, and chromatin-chromatin interactions in immune, salivary gland epithelial, and kidney epithelial cells revealed cell type-specific allelic effects for all five SNPs that expanded regulation beyond effects on DDX6 and CXCR5 expression. Mapping the local chromatin regulatory network revealed several additional genes of interest, including lnc-PHLDB1-1. Collectively, functional characterization implicated the risk alleles of these SNPs as modulators of promoter and/or enhancer activities that regulate cell type-specific expression of DDX6, CXCR5, and lnc-PHLDB1-1, among others. Further, these findings emphasize the importance of exploring the functional significance of SNPs in the context of complex chromatin architecture in disease-relevant cell types and tissues.
Tuberculosis is the leading cause of death due to an infectious disease worldwide. Innate lymphoid type 3 cells (ILC3s) mediate early protection during Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection. However, the early signaling mechanisms that govern ILC3 activation or recruitment within the lung during Mtb infection are unclear. scRNA-seq analysis of Mtb-infected mouse lung innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) has revealed the presence of different clusters of ILC populations, suggesting heterogeneity. Using mouse models, we show that during Mtb infection, interleukin-1 receptor (IL-1R) signaling on epithelial cells drives ILC3 expansion and regulates ILC3 accumulation in the lung. Furthermore, our data revealed that C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 5 (CXCR5) signaling plays a crucial role in ILC3 recruitment from periphery during Mtb infection. Our study thus establishes the early responses that drive ILC3 accumulation during Mtb infection and points to ILC3s as a potential vaccine target.Tuberculosis is a leading cause of death due to a single infectious agent accounting for 1.6 million deaths each year. In our study, we determined the role of type 3 innate lymphoid cells in early immune events necessary for achieving protection during Mtb infection. Our study reveals distinct clusters of ILC2, ILC3, and ILC3/ILC1-like cells in Mtb infection. Moreover, our study reveal that IL-1R signaling on lung type 2 epithelial cells plays a key role in lung ILC3 accumulation during Mtb infection. CXCR5 on ILC3s is involved in ILC3 homing from periphery during Mtb infection. Thus, our study provides novel insights into the early immune mechanisms governed by innate lymphoid cells that can be targeted for potential vaccine-induced protection.
Naive B cells use the chemokine receptor CXCR5 to enter B cell follicles, where they scan CXCL13-expressing ICAM-1+ VCAM-1+ follicular dendritic cells (FDCs) for the presence of antigen. CXCL13-CXCR5-mediated motility is mainly driven by the Rac guanine exchange factor DOCK2, which contains a binding domain for phosphoinositide-3,4,5-triphosphate (PIP3) and other phospholipids. While p110δ, the catalytic subunit of the class IA phosphoinositide-3-kinase (PI3K) δ, contributes to CXCR5-mediated B cell migration, the precise interdependency of DOCK2, p110δ, or other PI3K family members during this process remains incompletely understood. Here, we combined in vitro chemotaxis assays and in vivo imaging to examine the contribution of these two factors during murine naïve B cell migration to CXCL13. Our data confirm that p110δ is the main catalytic subunit mediating PI3K-dependent migration downstream CXCR5, whereas it does not contribute to chemotaxis triggered by CXCR4 or CCR7, two other chemokine receptors expressed on naïve B cells. The contribution of p110δ activity to CXCR5-driven migration was complementary to that of DOCK2, and pharmacological or genetic interference with both pathways completely abrogated B cell chemotaxis to CXCL13. Intravital microscopy of control and gene-deficient B cells migrating on FDCs confirmed that lack of DOCK2 caused a profound migration defect, whereas p110δ contributed to cell speed and directionality. B cells lacking active p110δ also displayed defective adhesion to ICAM-1; yet, their migration impairment was maintained on ICAM-1-deficient FDCs. In sum, our data uncover two complementary signaling pathways mediated by DOCK2 and p110δ, which enable CXCR5-driven naïve B cell examination of FDCs.Copyright © 2022 Wissmann, Stolp, Jímenez and Stein.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) has the highest fatality rate of any solid tumor, with a five-year survival rate of only 10% in the USA. PDAC is characterized by early metastasis. More than 50% of patients present with distant metastases at the time of diagnosis, and the majority of patients will develop metastasis within 4 years after tumor resection. Despite extensive studies, the molecular mechanisms underlying PDAC metastasis remain unclear. The polyoma enhancer activator protein (PEA3) subfamily was reported to play a vital role in the initiation and progression of multiple tumors. Herein, we found that ETS variant 4 (ETV4) was highly expressed in PDAC tissues and associated with poor survival. Univariate and multivariate analyses revealed that ETV4 expression was an independent prognostic factor for patient survival. Further experiments showed that ETV4 overexpression promoted PDAC invasion and metastasis both in vitro and in vivo. For the first time, we demonstrated that, mechanistically, ETV4 increased CXCR5 expression by directly binding to the CXCR5 promoter region. Knockdown of CXCR5 significantly reversed ETV4-mediated PDAC migration and invasion, while CXCR5 overexpression exerted the opposite effects. Intriguingly, we found that CXCL13, a specific ligand of CXCR5, increased ETV4 expression and promoted PDAC invasion and metastasis by activating the ERK1/2 pathway. ETV4 knockdown significantly abrogated the enhanced migratory and invasive abilities induced by the CXCL13/CXCR5 axis. In addition, a CXCR5 neutralizing antibody disrupted the CXCL13/ETV4/CXCR5 positive feedback loop and inhibited cell migration and invasion. Overall, in this study, we demonstrated that ETV4 plays a vital role in PDAC metastasis and defined a novel CXCL13/ETV4/CXCR5 positive feedback loop. Targeting this pathway has implications for potential therapeutic strategies for PDAC treatment.Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Our previous studies found that the C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 5 (CXCR5) loss leads to retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) dysfunction and AMD pathogenesis. The current study aimed to characterize the G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) structure of CXCR5 and analyze its interactions with AMD-related risk genes. The sequence alignments, homology model of CXCR5 and structural assessment analysis were performed. Data and text mining were then performed to identify AMD-related risk genes and their interaction with CXCR5 using statistical and mathematical algorithms. Sequence alignment and phylogenetic tree analysis revealed that human CXCR5 was highly similar (85.4839%) to the rabbit. The least similarity (33.871%) was found to be in zebrafish compared to the other species. The CXCR5 model structural assessment and secondary structure analysis exhibited an excellent model. Network analysis revealed that IL10, TNF, ICAM1, CXCL1, CXCL8, APP, TLR4, SELL, C3, IL17A and CCR2 were the most connected genes CXCR5. These findings suggest that CXCR5 signaling may regulate the biological function of RPE and modulate AMD pathophysiology via GPCR signaling and interacting with identified AMD risk genes. In summary, the data presented here provide novel and crucial insights into the molecular mechanisms of CXCR5 involvement in AMD.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.
The effects of TGF-βs (transforming growth factor-βs) in failing hearts involve cell-specific actions mediated through receptor-regulated Smads or Smad-independent pathways. The inhibitory Smad, Smad7, is a negative feedback regulator that restrains excessive TGF-β/receptor-regulated Smad signaling, while also exerting TGF-β-independent effects. We hypothesized that cardiomyocyte Smad7 upregulation contributes to the pathogenesis of pressure overload-induced heart failure and investigated the mechanisms underlying its actions.Cardiomyocyte-specific Smad7 knockout mice and corresponding Cre+ and Smad7fl/fl controls underwent transverse aortic constriction. Echocardiographic, histological, transcriptomic, and proteomic analyses were performed. RNA sequencing identified candidate pathways modulated by Smad7. Effects of Smad7 loss on TGF-β and ERBB2 (erb-b2 receptor tyrosine kinase 2) cascades were examined in vivo and in cardiomyocyte-like H9c2 cells using western blotting.Smad7 was upregulated in cardiomyocytes and fibroblasts following transverse aortic constriction and in patients with nonischemic cardiomyopathy. Cardiomyocyte-specific Smad7 knockout mice had no baseline abnormalities but developed worse systolic and diastolic dysfunction and increased cardiomyocyte hypertrophy after pressure overload. Cardiomyocyte Smad7 loss did not alter fibrosis after transverse aortic constriction but increased macrophage infiltration. Cardiomyocyte-specific Smad7 knockout hearts showed reduced expression of genes associated with cardiac contraction. Bioinformatic analysis identified TGF-β1, angiotensin, and ERBB2 as candidate upstream regulators mediating the effects of Smad7 loss. In vivo, cardiomyocyte Smad7 inhibited activation of TGF-β receptor 1 (TGFBR1)/Smad2/3 and ERBB2 without affecting TGF-β receptor 2 (TGFBR2) activity. In the absence of Smad7, pressure-overloaded cardiomyocytes exhibited increased TGFBR1/Smad3 activation. In H9c2 cells, endogenous Smad7 restrained TGFBR1/Smad3 activation without affecting TGFBR2 or ERBB2 activity.Cardiomyocyte Smad7 protects the pressure-overloaded heart from dysfunction, regulating genes involved in muscle contraction, likely through direct suppression of TGFBR1/Smad3.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42146949 is a review article
Rho-associated coiled-coil kinase 1 (ROCK1) and Transforming Growth Factor Beta Receptor 1 (TGFBR1) are pivotal mediators of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), cytoskeleton remodeling, cell adhesion, and cancer metastasis. Their simultaneous inhibition offers a promising therapeutic strategy to disrupt cancer metastasis. This study integrates machine learning (ML)-based predictive QSAR (Quantitative Structure Activity Relationship) modeling, structure-activity relationship (SAR) analysis, ML-based virtual screening to identify dual inhibitors targeting both ROCK1 and TGFBR1. Bioactivity data with SMILES representation of ROCK1 and TGFBR1 inhibitors were sourced from ChEMBL. Molecular descriptors and fingerprints (e.g., Morgan, AtomPairs2D, etc) were computed using RDKit and PaDEL to encode molecular properties. Analysis of chemical similarity using Tanimoto coefficients identified activity-cliff pairs of compounds with high structural similarity but significant activity differences. QSAR models were developed using individual and combined fingerprints, with additional strategies such as excluding activity cliff pairs and stratified sampling based on pIC50 quantiles. Predictive machine learning models, including Random Forest (RF), Gradient Boosting (GB), XGBoost (XGB), K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN), Support Vector Machines (SVM), and Ridge Regression (RR), demonstrated robust performance (R2 > 0.6). The best ROCK1 and TGFBR1 models (RF Regressor) were used to screen a library of 1,48,684 compounds, resulting in the identification of a Hit (2-(1H-1,3-benzodiazol-1-yl)-N-[3-(1H-pyrazol-4-yl)phenyl]propanamide) with predicted dual ROCK1 (pIC50 = 7.29) and TGFBR1 (pIC50 = 7.00) inhibitory activity. Further, docking and molecular dynamics simulations of the Hit showed strong and stable interaction with both the targets hinge region residues, suggesting potential dual target inhibition activity.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Risperidone (RIS) is a potent atypical antipsychotic drug that has gained widespread attention owing to its toxic effects on the body organs such as liver. The current research experiment was executed to elucidate the alleviative efficacy of engeletin (ENG) against risperidone (RIS) induced hepatic dysfunction. Thirty-six Sprague Dawley rats were divided into four groups including control, RIS (2 mg/kg), RIS (2 mg/kg) + ENG (10 mg/kg), and ENG (10 mg/kg) alone administered group for 10 weeks orally. RIS intoxication induced hepatic fibrosis as well as inflammation via upregulating the gene expression of transforming growth factor beta receptor 2 (TGFBR2), transforming growth factor beta receptor 1 (TGFBR1), nuclear factor- kappa B (NF-κB), transforming growth factor beta-1 (TGF-β1), collagen type I alpha 1 (COL1A1), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), SMAD3, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), interleukin-6 (IL-6), SMAD4 & interleukin-1beta (IL-1β). The administration of RIS promoted the levels of ROS and MDA while diminishing the activities of HO-1, GPx, SOD, GSR, CAT and GST. RIS intakes abruptly uplifted levels of gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), & alkaline phosphatase (ALP) while lowering the concentrations of albumin & total proteins in hepatic tissues. RIS exposure promoted the levels of Caspase-3, Bax & Caspase-9 while demolishing levels of Bcl-2. RIS intoxication dysregulated the normal architecture of hepatic tissues. Nonetheless, ENG therapy ameliorated hepatic dysregulations owing to its antioxidative, anti-inflammatory, anti-fibrotic as well as anti-apoptotic properties. In addition, advanced molecular docking analysis demonstrated strong binding affinity of engeletin with the key regulatory proteins SMAD3 (-9.3 kcal/mol) and NF-κB p65 (-9.1 kcal/mol), providing strong evidence that ENG can directly interact with the central regulators of the TGF-β1/Smad and NF-κB signaling pathways. In conclusion, ENG significantly ameliorated RIS-induced hepatotoxicity, highlighting its potential as hepatoprotective adjuvant therapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41977327 is a review article
Depression remains a major global health challenge, and current treatments are suboptimal. Hydrogen sulfide (H₂S), an endogenous gasotransmitter, has antidepressant potential; however, its mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Understanding the mechanisms underlying the antidepressant-like role of H₂S is essential for developing H₂S as a therapeutic candidate for treating depression.Depressive-like behaviors were assessed via the open field test (OFT), novelty-suppressed feeding test (NSFT), sucrose preference test (SPT), tail suspension test (TST), and forced swim test (FST). Western blotting was used to analyze the protein expression levels. Cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-4, IL-6, and IL-10) were quantified via ELISA. Kynurenine-pathway (KP) metabolites were assayed by selective reaction/multiple reaction monitoring technology.Chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) reduced hippocampal growth differentiation factor 11 (GDF11) expression. H₂S significantly increased the expression of GDF11 and the ratio of p-Smad2/3/Smad2/3, a downstream effector of TGFBR1, indicating that H2S enhances the activation of GDF11/TGFBR1 pathway in the hippocampus of CUMS-exposed rats. Furthermore, hippocampal GDF11 knockdown and pharmacological blockade of TGFBR1 with SB525334, which disrupts H₂S-induced activation of the GDF11/TGFBR1 pathway, reversed the molecular effects of H₂S in CUMS-exposed rats, including suppression of necroptosis, attenuation of neuroinflammation, and normalization of kynurenine-pathway enzymes and metabolites, as well as abolished the antidepressant-like effects of H₂S.The hippocampal GDF11/TGFBR1 pathway mediates the antidepressant-like effects of H₂S by restraining the cascade of hippocampal necroptosis-neuroinflammation-KP disorder, suggesting that the GDF11/TGFBR1 pathway is a promising therapeutic target for depression.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Dermal papilla cells (DPCs) serve as the signaling hub regulating hair follicle (HF) development and cyclical growth. This study aims to investigate the biological function and molecular mechanisms of TGFBR1 (transforming growth factor β receptor 1), a differentially expressed gene identified through single-cell transcriptomic sequencing (scRNA-seq) in the DPCs from fine-wool sheep. Primary DPCs were isolated and purified using a combination of enzymatic digestion and mechanical dissociation, followed by immunofluorescence identification (α-SMA and SOX2-positive). Following successful transfection with constructed TGFBR1 overexpression plasmids and siRNA interference vectors, cell proliferation was assessed via EDU staining and CCK-8 assays. mRNA expression of key genes in Wnt/β-catenin, BMP, and Notch signaling pathways (PCNA, CCND1, CTNNB1, SFRP2, BMP2, NOTCH3, SMAD4, etc.) was validated by RT-qPCR. Single-cell transcriptomics revealed significant downregulation of TGFBR1 in DPCs from fine-wool sheep. Functional validation demonstrated that TGFBR1 overexpression markedly suppressed DPC proliferation, whereas knockdown of TGFBR1 expression promoted DPC proliferation. Molecular mechanism studies showed that TGFBR1 overexpression significantly downregulated PCNA, CCND1, CTNNB1, NOTCH3, and SMAD4 while upregulating SFRP2, BMP2, and TGFB1 expression. These findings demonstrate that TGFBR1 acts as a negative regulator of DPCs proliferation by modulating the activity of multiple signaling pathways, including Wnt/β-catenin, BMP, and Notch, thereby suppressing the proliferative capacity of DPCs. This study not only provides new theoretical support for elucidating the role of the TGF-β signaling pathway in H development but also offers theoretical reference for in-depth research on molecular breeding in ultra -fine-wool sheep and the molecular mechanisms underlying HF development.
Nanofluidics is a rapidly advancing technique for analyzing individual biomacromolecules without the need for chemical modification or immobilization on a surface. When combined with fluorescence microscopy, this approach enables detailed exploration of the structural and dynamic properties of single-stranded nucleic acids. This overview outlines the process for creating cost-effective lab-on-a-chip devices using polymer resins, which incorporate quasi-one-dimensional nanochannels with cross-sectional dimensions on the order of tens of nanometers. Additionally, we describe a method for fluorescently labeling specific gene sequences on single-stranded DNA. The technique is demonstrated through a case involving the localization of the transforming growth factor Beta receptor 1, TGFβR1 gene along with its associated miRNA binding site in the mouse genome.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) progression is linked to renal fibrosis, influenced by profibrotic factors like transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) and fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2). Despite advancements in synthetic drugs like enalapril, evidence for plant-derived candidates that slow kidney fibrosis remains limited, underscoring the need for rigorous preclinical evaluation.This study evaluates the antifibrotic efficacy of Morus alba Linn. leaf extract (MLE) and its primary compound, chlorogenic acid (CGA), in a mouse model of renal fibrosis induced by unilateral ureteral obstruction (UUO).Twenty-five male Balb/c mice were assigned to five groups: sham operation (SO), UUO control, UUO with enalapril treatment, UUO with MLE, and UUO with CGA. Treatments were administered orally for 14 days, followed by assessments of fibrosis through histological analysis, immunohistochemistry, gene expression profiling, and molecular docking.Results indicated significant reductions in basement membrane thickening (from 31.19% in UUO to 21.87% with MLE), collagen deposition (from 6.85% to 2.7%), and decreased expression of key fibrotic markers such as TGF-β1 (from 26.21% to 11.91% with MLE and 5.92% with CGA), FGF-2, Collagen-1, Smad3, alpha-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), and β-catenin. Molecular docking analysis suggested that CGA formed plausible interactions with transforming growth factor beta receptor 1 (TGFβR1) (-9.5 kcal/mol) and fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) (-8.3 kcal/mol), indicating its potential antifibrotic properties.These findings suggest that MLE and CGA effectively alleviate renal fibrosis by modulating crucial profibrotic signaling pathways, presenting them as promising natural therapeutic alternatives for CKD-associated fibrosis.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Liver fibrosis represents the liver’s adaptive response to sustained and intense inflammation triggered by diverse insults, ranging from dietary factors to infectious agents. Although early-stage fibrosis can be reversible, unchecked progression often leads to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Therapeutic options remain limited, highlighting the pressing need for novel anti‑fibrotic agents. In this study, we evaluated the in vitro anti‑fibrotic effects of 7‑octenoic acid (7‑OCT), a bioactive constituent from Moringa oleifera Lam. Human hepatic stellate LX‑2 cells were stimulated with TGF‑β1 (10 ng/mL) in the presence or absence of 7‑OCT. Fibrotic marker expression was quantified at both the mRNA and protein levels. Comprehensive proteomic profiling and subsequent in silico docking analyses were performed to identify putative molecular targets and clarify mechanisms of action. Our results demonstrate that 7‑OCT significantly suppresses the expression of α‑smooth muscle actin (α‑SMA), collagen type I, and matrix metalloproteinase‑9 (MMP‑9) by downregulating transforming growth factor beta receptor 1 (TGFBR1) expression and inhibiting mothers against decapentaplegic homolog 3 (SMAD3) phosphorylation. Proteomic data implicates focal adhesion pathway proteins in mediating these effects. Collectively, these findings suggest that 7‑OCT is a promising lead compound for the development of anti‑fibrotic therapies.
Fibroblasts have emerged as inflammatory entities in ulcerative colitis (UC) and eosinophilic oesophagitis, positioning these cells as attractive therapeutic targets. Previous studies have shown that hydroxylase inhibitors elicit anti-inflammatory responses, but their effects on fibroblasts during inflammation remain unknown. Here we test the effects of hydroxylase inhibitors on TNFSF14/LIGHT-driven inflammation in intestinal and oesophageal fibroblasts. Human endoscopic biopsies were obtained from paired inflamed or non-inflamed areas of active UC patients. Primary human colonic and oesophageal fibroblasts from healthy donors were pre-treated with hydroxylase inhibitors and/or treated with LIGHT. Flow cytometry, qRT-PCR, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays, immunoblotting, immunofluorescence and RNAseq were used. LIGHT induced inflammatory responses in intestinal fibroblasts predominantly via lymphotoxin β receptor (LTβR), which was more highly expressed than herpes virus entry mediator in UC biopsies and colonic fibroblasts. A comparative analysis of the response to LIGHT between colonic and oesophageal fibroblasts revealed unique transcriptional profiles and a shared inflammatory gene programme. Pretreatment with hydroxylase inhibitors had a selective inhibitory effect on the expression of several LIGHT-mediated inflammatory factors in colonic and oesophageal fibroblasts. Mechanistic studies revealed differential molecular targets as LIGHT-driven non-canonical nuclear factor-κB activity was targeted by hydroxylase inhibitors in oesophageal but unaffected in colonic fibroblasts. While dimethyloxalylglycine (DMOG) abrogated LIGHT-induced p38 phosphorylation in colonic fibroblasts, p38 inhibitors did not phenocopy the anti-inflammatory effects of DMOG. In summary, we established a previously unrecognised LIGHT/LTβR-driven inflammatory response in intestinal fibroblasts and characterised differential effects and pathways for LIGHT signalling in intestinal and oesophageal fibroblasts. We identified therapeutic effects of hydroxylase inhibitors via targeting of distinct pathways in these cells. KEY POINTS: LIGHT induces partially conserved inflammatory responses in colonic and oesophageal fibroblasts. Hydroxylase inhibitors selectively diminish LIGHT-mediated inflammation in both types of fibroblasts. Dimethyloxalylglycine reduces accumulation of the non-canonical nuclear factor-κB member p52 in oesophageal fibroblasts. The mechanism whereby hydroxylase inhibitors reduce LIGHT-mediated inflammation in colonic fibroblasts remains to be elucidated.© 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Physiology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Physiological Society.
High endothelial venules (HEVs) play a crucial role in adaptive immune responses in secondary lymphoid organs (SLOs). They are equipped with high amounts of peripheral node addressin (PNAd), harboring carbohydrate structures that serve as L-selectin ligands to efficiently facilitate lymphocyte homing. During inflammation, the HEV network expands in SLOs, increasing lymphocyte infiltration, but the underlying mechanisms that maintain HEVs remain underexplored. Here, we report that autophagy is essential for HEV function and expansion. Using single-cell transcriptomics, unbiased proteomics, intravital imaging, and an inducible HEV tracer system in mice, we demonstrate that autophagy deficiency compromises lymphotoxin beta receptor (LTβR) signaling and the unfolded protein response in HEVs, leading to disrupted PNAd production, dedifferentiation, and reduced lymphocyte homing. Autophagy deficiency and LTβR blockade impair HEV function and reduce skin inflammation in psoriasis-affected mice by limiting immune infiltration and cytokine release. Our work reveals that autophagy safeguards HEV identity and function during inflammation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42377217 is a review article
Backgrounds: Tertiary lymphoid structures (TLSs) are increasingly recognized as modulators of anti-tumor immunity, yet their clinical relevance in bladder cancer remains incompletely understood, partly owing to heterogeneity in their maturation states. Here, we demonstrate that germinal center (GC)-like TLS maturity, rather than TLS presence alone, is closely associated with immune activation and therapeutic response to Programmed Death-Ligand 1 (PD-L1) blockade in bladder cancer. The objective of this study was to systematically investigate the clinical significance, biological function, and therapeutic potential of tertiary lymphoid structure (TLS) maturation in bladder cancer. Specifically, we aimed to determine whether GC-like TLS maturity provides prognostic and predictive value beyond TLS presence alone, to elucidate the immune programs and tumor microenvironment remodeling associated with TLS maturation, and to explore whether TLS maturation can be therapeutically induced to enhance responsiveness to PD-L1 blockade. Methods: We performed an integrative analysis combining multi-cohort transcriptomics, spatially resolved histopathology, single-cell RNA sequencing, and functional murine experiments. TLS maturation states were defined using gene-expression-based GC-like TLS signatures and validated through multiplex immunohistochemistry. Clinical relevance was assessed in public immunotherapy cohorts and an independent neoadjuvant PD-L1-treated muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) cohort. Tumor immune microenvironment remodeling and chemokine-mediated cellular crosstalk were analyzed using deconvolution, Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA), and CellChat. The therapeutic inducibility of TLS maturation was examined using a lymphotoxin-β receptor (LTβR) agonist in combination with PD-L1 blockade in a syngeneic bladder cancer model. Results: Across multiple transcriptomic cohorts, tumors enriched for GC-like TLS signatures exhibited significantly prolonged survival and higher objective response rates to anti-PD-L1 therapy, whereas less mature TLS phenotypes showed no consistent association with clinical association. These observations were independently validated in a neoadjuvant PD-L1-treated muscle-invasive bladder cancer cohort, in which high mature TLS density was associated with major pathological response and prolonged event-free survival, outperforming PD-L1 expression. Integrative histopathological and transcriptomic analyses indicated that GC formation marks a functional transition linking humoral immune programs with cytotoxic effector activity and shaping a memory-prone, pro-inflammatory tumor immune microenvironment. Chemokine signaling via the CC chemokine ligand 21 (CCL21)-C-C chemokine receptor type 7 (CCR7) and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 12 (CXCL12)-C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4) axes was strongly associated with TLS maturation and spatial organization. Finally, in a syngeneic bladder cancer model, pharmacological activation of lymphotoxin-β receptor signaling promoted TLS maturation and enhanced the antitumor efficacy of PD-L1 blockade. Conclusions: Together, these findings suggest that GC-like TLS maturity represents a clinically relevant biomarker and a potential therapeutic entry point for precision immunotherapy in bladder cancer. Therapeutic strategies that promote TLS maturation may convert immune-cold tumors into checkpoint-responsive states, providing a mechanistically grounded precision immunotherapy approach.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
Radiotherapy is important for advanced and metastatic gastric cancer (GC), but radioresistance limits its benefit. Pyroptosis has emerged as a potential strategy to overcome radioresistance, yet its regulatory mechanisms remain unclear. Using LC-MS/MS-based proteomic profiling of tumor tissues from patients with GC treated with neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy, we identified tumor-intrinsic lymphotoxin beta receptor (LTβR), previously considered mainly an immune cell membrane protein, as a candidate determinant of poor radiotherapy response. Functional studies in GC cell lines, xenografts, and patient-derived organoids (PDOs) showed that LTβR depletion enhanced radiosensitivity, whereas LTβR overexpression promoted radioresistance. Integrated RNA-seq, Ribo-seq, and polysome profiling showed that LTβR loss reduced translational efficiency of SARM1 under irradiation. Mechanistically, irradiation increased LTβR stability in a glycosylation-dependent manner and promoted nuclear translocation. In the nucleus, LTβR enhanced TRIM28-mediated SUMOylation of PCBP2, promoting cytoplasmic redistribution of PCBP2 and increased translational efficiency of SARM1. Consistently, LTβR suppressed irradiation-induced pyroptosis through the NLRP3/caspase-1/GSDMD pathway. We further identified EMD638683 as an LTβR-binding compound through structure-based virtual screening, and showed that cRGD-modified liposomes improved its tumor-targeted delivery and enhanced LTβR reduction, radiosensitization, and tumor suppression in PDO and xenograft models. Together, these findings highlight LTβR as a promising therapeutic target to improve radiotherapy efficacy in GC.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) is a chronic inflammatory skin disorder the development of which is driven by allergen sensitization in peripheral lymphoid organs and local cutaneous inflammation. Lymphotoxin (LT) and its receptor LTβR are critical for lymphoid organogenesis and immune regulation in barrier tissues, but their role in ACD pathogenesis remains incompletely defined. This study aimed to delineate differential contribution of the LTβR-dependent signaling in oxazolone-induced dermatitis. We examined Lta knockout (Lta KO) mice, which lack both soluble LTα3 and membrane-bound isoforms LTα1β2/LTα2β1, and the Ltbr knockout (Ltbr KO) mice, both of which lack lymph nodes. ACD was induced by repeated oxazolone application to ear skin, with assessment of clinical severity, inflammation-associated gene expression, serum IgE levels, and immune cell composition in blood and spleen. Contrary to previous reports, the Lta KO mice developed dermatitis comparable to the wild-type (WT) mice, with elevated IgE production. In contrast, the Ltbr KO mice were substantially protected from the disease, exhibiting attenuated clinical inflammation, reduced ear swelling, and decreased Tslp expression in the lesional skin at the background of a lower proportion of circulating CD4+ T cells. These findings indicate that LTβR-dependent signaling is pathogenic in allergic skin inflammation, while LTα-mediated pathways are dispensable, suggesting a potential role for the other LTβR ligand, LIGHT, in ACD pathogenesis. Notably, ACD developed even in the absence of lymph nodes, highlighting the importance of local, skin-resident LTβR-dependent mechanisms in the disease development.
The major barrier to clinical translation of αCD137 immunotherapy is separating antitumor efficacy from hepatotoxicity driven by IFN-γ-producing CD8 T cells. We propose a strategy to limit toxicity by promoting contraction of excessively expanded CD8 T cells. We identify CD11c+KLRG1+ effector CD8 T cells (CD11c+TE) as the primary source of IFN-γ, recirculating between blood and secondary lymphoid organs (SLOs), where they undergo apoptosis during contraction. We show that lymphotoxin β receptor (LTβR) signaling restrains this contraction. Mechanistically, lymphotoxin-expressing B cells activate LTβR in fibroblastic reticular cells (FRCs), suppressing apoptosis of CD11c+TE cells in the spleen and sustaining their systemic circulation and liver infiltration. Pharmacological LTβR blockade abrogates hepatotoxicity by reducing the accumulation of IFN-γ-producing CD11c+TE cells while preserving tumor-specific CD8 T cell responses. These findings identify LTβR as a key regulator of effector CD8 T cell persistence and support the use of LTβR antagonists to improve the safety of αCD137-based immunotherapy.
Preventing the development of chronic pain is crucial to avoiding difficult-to-manage, debilitating pain conditions. Our research identifies the lymphotoxin beta receptor (LTβR) as a peripheral master regulator in this process. Activation of LTβR induces mechanical allodynia and increases sensory neuron excitability by engaging peripheral non-neuronal cells, including macrophages and stromal cells. Conversely, local blockade of LTβR reduces neuronal hyperexcitability and irreversibly prevents chronic pain in a neuropathic preclinical model. These LTβR effects are driven by both LTβ and LIGHT. Transcriptomic analysis reveals that LTβR regulates the development of chronic pain by coordinating a peripheral gene-plasticity network that involves immune-related genes and diverse cell types. Overall, LTβR acts as a master regulator controlling the development of pain chronicity by shaping a peripheral gene plasticity network that drives sensory neuronal sensitization.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Immune checkpoint inhibitors (CPI) have revolutionized cancer therapy, yet many patients derive limited benefit because of poor immune infiltration within the tumor microenvironment (TME). The presence of tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS) and high endothelial venules (HEV) correlates with improved immunotherapy responses. This study evaluated whether selective activation of lymphotoxin β receptor (LTBR) signaling, targeted to fibroblast activation protein (FAP)-expressing tumor stroma, could remodel the TME to enhance immune cell infiltration and potentiate immunotherapy.FAP-LTBR was engineered as a novel tumor-targeted LTBR agonist and was characterized for its binding, activation, and immunomodulatory properties in vitro and in vivo. Functional effects were assessed using primary human endothelial cells, three-dimensional (3D) microfluidic vascular models, and multiple murine tumor models. Spatial transcriptomics and 3D immunophenotyping elucidated TME remodeling. Therapeutic efficacy was tested as monotherapy and in combination with CPIs or T-cell engagers.FAP-LTBR selectively activated endothelial cells and induced chemokine secretion in a FAP-dependent manner, enhancing T-cell adhesion and extravasation in vitro. In murine models, FAP-LTBR promoted HEV differentiation, TLS-like immune aggregates, and broad tumor inflammation marked by increased B- and T-cell infiltration, including stem-like TCF1+ CD8+ T cells. FAP-LTBR synergized with CPIs and T-cell engagers to induce durable tumor regression, with superior CD8+ T-cell recruitment and redistribution into tumor cores.FAP-LTBR represents a first-in-class tumor-targeted LTBR agonist that remodels the TME, promoting HEV differentiation, immune cell infiltration, and the formation of organized lymphoid aggregates, which collectively enhance immunotherapy efficacy in preclinical models.©2026 American Association for Cancer Research.
Elevated brain pro-inflammatory cytokines are found in the midbrain of about 50% of the people with schizophrenia, and increased transcription factor nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) could be responsible. Here, we tested if NF-κB mRNA is increased in high-inflammation schizophrenia midbrain. We hypothesised that increased mRNA expression for distinct NF-κB pathway members may be found, which could help identify specific triggers of midbrain inflammation. Midbrain tissue RNA extracted from age-matched schizophrenia patients (n = 62) and non-psychiatric controls (n = 62) was analysed using high-throughput qPCR for 15 major NF-κB related transcripts: six activating receptors (IL-1 receptor 1 [IL1R1], toll-like receptor 4 [TLR4], TNF receptor 1 [TNFR1], cluster of differentiation 40 [CD40], lymphotoxin β receptor [LTβR], TNFR2), three inducing kinases (inhibitor of nuclear factor κ-B kinase subunit β [IKKβ], IKKα, NF-κB-inducing kinase [NIK]), three NF-κB subunits (1 [NF-κB1], 2 [NF-κB2], v-rel avian reticuloendotheliosis viral oncogene homolog A [RelA]), and three inhibitors (human immunodeficiency virus type I enhancer binding protein 2 [HIVEP2], NF-κB inhibitor α [IκBα], IκBβ). We found significantly increased mRNA levels for four activating receptors (CD40, IL1R1, TNFR1, TNFR2), one inducing kinase (NIK), all three NF-κB subunits (NF-κB1, NF-κB2, RelA), and one inhibitor (IκBα) in schizophrenia. When stratified by inflammation status based on cytokine transcript levels, all of these nine transcripts were significantly elevated in the high-inflammation schizophrenia group, as was LTβR. Only IL1R1 mRNA was elevated in the low-inflammation schizophrenia group compared to low-inflammation controls. To explore which cells may be responsible for increased NF-κB pathway activation in schizophrenia, we conducted snRNA-seq on midbrain tissue from a subgroup of the same cohort (14 controls, 20 schizophrenia). NF-κB-related mRNA levels from both the canonical and the non-canonical pathway were highest in seven cell clusters (astrocytes, microglia, macrophages, endothelial cells, oligodendrocytes, T cells, and neurons). Endothelial cells were the only cells with substantial IL1R1, NF-κB2, and IκBα expression, whereas TNFR1 was mostly found in astrocytes, microglia, macrophages, and T cells. Together, these findings support that increased NF-κB induces cytokine mRNA expression in schizophrenia midbrain via multiple upstream activators and cell types. The widespread increase in multiple NF-κB transcripts highlights both redundant activation mechanisms and a putative attempt to control NF-κB activation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) remains a major therapeutic challenge. B-cell lymphoma 2-associated transcription factor 1 (Bclaf1) is implicated in RNA splicing and cardiac disease, but its role in HFrEF pathogenesis is unknown. Here, we demonstrate that Bclaf1 expression is elevated in human HFrEF myocardium and in male murine pressure-overload models. Cardiac-specific Bclaf1 overexpression drives pathological hypertrophy and systolic dysfunction, whereas its genetic knockout or adeno-associated virus serotype 9 (AAV9)-mediated knockdown attenuates these phenotypes. Mechanistically, Bclaf1 interacts with the splicing factor serine/arginine-rich splicing factor 2 (Srsf2) to bind to heart and neural crest derivatives expressed 2 (Hand2) pre-mRNA and enhance its splicing efficiency, leading to increased mature Hand2 levels and maladaptive remodeling. Inhibition of either Bclaf1 or Hand2 rescues cardiac function and structure in experimental HFrEF. Our work defines a Bclaf1/Srsf2/Hand2 splicing axis as a critical driver of HFrEF and reveals a promising therapeutic target for heart failure.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aims to uncover the role and mechanism of transforming growth factor α (TGFA) on the malignant progression of cervical cancer. Reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and western blotting were used to examine the expression levels of TGFA in cancer cells and tissues. Changes in cell viability, apoptosis, and malignant metastatic ability of cancer cells were detected using methylthiazolyldiphenyl-tetrazolium bromide (MTT), flow cytometry, and Transwell method respectively. Autophagy was evaluated via microtubule-associated proteins light chain 3 (LC3) and sequestosome 1 (p62) expression. A nude mouse xenograft model was used for in vivo validation. RNA pull-down assay was performed to explore the interaction between TGFA and desmoglein 2 (DSG2). These results indicated that TGFA expression was elevated in both cervical cancer tissues and cells. TGFA overexpression promoted cell proliferation, metastasis, and autophagy, whereas TGFA knockdown exerted the opposite effects and inhibited tumor growth. Mechanistically, TGFA bound to DSG2 and affected the downstream MYC oncogene (c-MYC)/ADAM metallopeptidase domain 17 (ADAM17) pathway. In conclusion, TGFA serves as an upstream regulator of the DSG2/c-MYC/ADAM17 axis, which is correlated with autophagy and malignant progression of cervical cancer.
Atrial septal defect (ASD) is a type of congenital heart defect characterized by the absence of atrial septal tissue. Research has shown that genetic factors play a significant role in the development of ASD. Variants in genes such as GATA binding protein 4 (GATA4), NK2 homeobox 5, and T-box transcription factor 5 have been identified in patients with ASD. In this study, we enrolled a Chinese family affected by ASD and PS. Whole exome sequencing and Sanger sequencing were used to investigate the genetic basis of lesions in this family. The AC16 cell line was used to perform the functional study. After data filtering and co-segregation analysis, we identified a rare mutation (NM_001308093.3: c.790G > A, p.Ala264Thr) in the GATA4 gene in the affected family members that was absent in the unaffected individuals. Bioinformatic analysis revealed that the newly identified mutation was deleterious and altered the hydrophobicity, size and polar of the GATA4 protein. Functional studies revealed that this rare mutation disrupted the stability of GATA4 and reduced the ability of GATA4 to activate the downstream target genes. Our findings highlight the importance of the N-terminal zinc finger structure of GATA4 in cardiac development. Additionally, our study contributes to the genetic diagnosis and counseling of families with congenital heart disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Neuroblastoma (NB), a transcriptionally driven pediatric malignancy, exhibits a remarkable clinical and biological heterogeneity. Two major subtypes, adrenergic and mesenchymal, are differentially governed by distinct subsets of transcription factors that constitute the core regulatory circuitry (CRC). The adrenergic subtype is often associated with MYCN oncogene amplification and is particularly aggressive and therapy-resistant, underscoring the need for novel therapeutic targets.Gene knockdown with siRNAs, qRT-PCR, flow cytometry-assisted measurements of intracellular oxidation and cell death parameters, immunoblotting, cytotoxicity assays (MTT, colony formation).We identified the multifunctional non-POU domain-containing octamer-binding (NONO) protein as a guardian of individual CRC genes, thereby promoting the survival of NB cells with different MYCN copy numbers. In the MYCN-amplified Kelly cell line, intracellular oxidation induced by auranofin, an inhibitor of thioredoxin reductase 1 (TrxR1), rapidly down-regulated NONO mRNA and protein levels. Conversely, NONO knockdown by RNA interference (siNONO) also triggered intracellular oxidation. These effects were less pronounced in the SK-N-AS cell line carrying a single MYCN copy, as well as in non-malignant HS5 fibroblasts. In Kelly and IMR-32 cells, siNONO attenuated auranofin-induced activation of CRC genes, namely, heart and neural crest derivatives expressed 2 (HAND2) and paired-like homeobox 2B (PHOX2B). Furthermore, the Kelly cells were more sensitive to combinations of sublethal auranofin concentrations and siNONO than the counterparts with single MYCN copy. Importantly, MYCN-amplified cells demonstrated a significantly suppressed clonogenic survival 14 days after transient exposure to these combinations compared with each agent alone; HS5 fibroblasts were largely spared.Our findings reveal a new role for the transcriptional regulator NONO in maintenance of the cellular redox balance and justify the strategy of therapeutic targeting of MYCN-amplified tumors vulnerable to oxidative stress.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Abnormal differentiation of T helper 17 (Th17) cells is an important mechanism underlying lupus nephritis (LN) pathogenesis. However, its driving mechanism remains unclear. Modification of m6A, the most dominant RNA modification, is a novel mechanism for regulating cell phenotypes and functions, with methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3) being an important methyltransferase. Nonetheless, whether m6A modification participates in the regulation of Th17 cell differentiation in patients with LN has not been reported. Our study investigates the effect of targeting METTL3 on Th17 cell infiltration, assesses its potential therapeutic role in LN, and further clarifies underlying mechanisms.Murine LN models (MRL/lpr, pristane-induced BALB/c) received STM2457 or standard drugs. Tissues, blood, and urine were collected after eight-week regimens. Blood and kidney needle biopsy specimens were collected from patients with LN along with control individuals. Multi-omic analyses along with cellular, molecular, and imaging assays assessed immunopathology and therapeutic effects.The infiltration of CD4+ T cells and pathogenic Th17 cells in the kidneys of patients with LN and MRL/lpr mice were higher than those in control individuals, accompanied by high METTL3 expression. METTL3 upregulation promoted differentiation of Th17 cells and mediated kidney injury. Mechanistic investigations revealed that METTL3 promotes pathogenic Th17 cell differentiation via two pathways. First, by increasing m6A modification of nuclear factor RAR-related orphan receptor (RORA) transcripts, thereby stabilizing them and enhancing RORA expression. Second, by augmenting RAR-related orphan receptor C (RORC) expression through elevating Smad2 and STAT3 phosphorylation levels in an m6A-independent manner. Furthermore, specific inhibition of METTL3 in CD4+ T cells can suppress the differentiation of pathogenic Th17 cells, thereby blocking the development of nephritis and alleviating kidney damage.METTL3 may serve as a new therapeutic target for precise LN treatment.Copyright © 2026 International Society of Nephrology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Dysregulation of extracellular matrix (ECM) degradation pathways has been increasingly implicated in major depressive disorder (MDD), yet its genetic basis remains unclear. This study investigated the relationship between ECM-related genetic polymorphisms and MDD susceptibility. In a case-control study, we analyzed 317 MDD patients and 1268 sexmatched controls from the Taiwan Biobank (TWB). Genomic DNA was analyzed using the Affymetrix TWB array, targeting single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 140 ECM degradation genes (Reactome database). Full-model association tests identified significant SNPs, validated with 5000 max(T) permutations and adjusted via logistic regression for age, body mass index, education level, and marital status. We identified 12 SNPs across 10 ECMrelated genes significantly associated with MDD, including ADAM metallopeptidase domain 17 (ADAM17, rs55820761), brevican (BCAN, rs11264511), CD44 molecule (CD44, rs12270356), collagen type XVII alpha 1 chain (COL17A1; rs2282436 and rs10883962), collagen type III alpha 1 chain (COL3A1; rs16830979 and rs10883962), collagen type VI alpha 6 chain (COL6A6, rs16830219), cathepsin L (CTSL, rs2274611), Kallikrein-related peptidase 2 (KLK2, rs2664156), matrix metallopeptidase 11 (MMP11, rs738791), and nicastrin (NCSTN, rs3753391). This study provides the first genetic evidence linking ECM degradation pathways to MDD susceptibility, identifying novel biomarkers for early diagnosis and precision therapy. Further research and cross-population studies are needed to confirm these findings.© the Author(s).
Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are critical regulators of ovarian follicular development. In chicken ovarian follicles, theca cells are primarily responsible for androgen and estradiol biosynthesis and play an important role in chicken follicular development, however, the function of lncRNAs in chicken theca cells remains unknown. This study characterized a novel lncRNA HAND2OT (heart and neural crest derivatives expressed 2 overlapping transcript) and elucidated its role in chicken theca cells. With a full length of 950 nt, HAND2OT was localized predominantly in the cytoplasm. The expression of HAND2OT was highest in large white follicles (LW), increased progressively from F6 to F1 follicles, declined in granulosa cells but increased in theca cells following follicle selection. HAND2OT expression was upregulated by estradiol, while downregulated by progesterone and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH). Functionally, HAND2OT suppressed estradiol secretion, inhibited theca cell proliferation by inducing cell cycle arrest at the G0/G1 phase and promoted apoptosis. The open reading frame 2(ORF2) of HAND2OT encoded a 66-amino-acid peptide (HAND2OT-66aa) exerting no effect on HAND2OT expression. Both the lncRNA HAND2OT lacking the HAND2OT-66aa and HAND2OT-66aa itself exhibited weaker effects on the cell proliferation and apoptosis of theca cells, compared with the full length HAND2OT, suggesting that HAND2OT regulates the survival and function of chicken theca cells via its RNA moiety and the HAND2OT-66aa micropeptide it encodes.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Streptococcus uberis is a leading cause of environmental mastitis globally. Ferroptosis, a cell death pathway driven by Fe2+-mediated lipid peroxide accumulation, with reactive oxygen species (ROS) participating in this process, is related to the mechanisms of infections caused by other pathogens inducing mastitis, such as Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus aureus. This study aims to investigate whether ferroptosis occurs in S. uberis-induced mastitis and to develop corresponding therapeutic interventions. Goat bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (GBMSC) were isolated from a 3-mo-old healthy goat. After verification via surface marker analysis and trilineage differentiation, angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2)-overexpressing GBMSC (GBMSC-ACE2) were generated using lentiviral vectors. In vitro, a coculture model of GBMSC, GBMSC-GFP, or GBMSC-ACE2 with goat mammary epithelial cells (GMEC) infected by S. uberis was established. Results showed that GBMSC-ACE2 effectively reduced ROS accumulation and inflammatory cytokine secretion, inhibited excessive activation of chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA), and maintained iron metabolism homeostasis, thus alleviating S. uberis-induced ferroptosis in GMEC better than GBMSC or GBMSC-GFP. The main manifestations were: 1) inhibiting ADAM metallopeptidase domain 17 (ADAM17) and promoting ACE2 expression to suppress the Angiotensin II (Ang II)/Ang II Type 1 Receptor (AT1R)/NADPH oxidase 2 (NOX2) pathway; 2) inhibiting lysosomal associated membrane protein 2A (LAMP2A), heat shock cognate protein 70 (Hsc70), heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) while promoting glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) expression; 3) reducing intracellular Fe2+ accumulation; 4) delaying lipid peroxidation. In vivo, 9 lactating goats were randomly divided into 3 groups (n = 3 each): control, S. uberis-infected, and GBMSC-ACE2-treated. The experiment lasted 7 d. The GBMSC-ACE2 significantly decreased SCC, improved milk yield and quality, inhibited bacterial proliferation, enhanced ACE2 expression in mammary tissue, and alleviated ferroptosis by suppressing CMA-mediated GPX4 degradation, thus reducing damage to the blood-milk barrier and mammary tissue. In conclusion, this study suggests that GBMSC-ACE2 is a novel treatment for S. uberis mastitis, capable of inhibiting ferroptosis in mammary epithelial cells and promoting tissue regeneration.The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of the American Dairy Science Association®. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
Neuroblastoma is one of the highest incidence solid tumors of childhood. Therapy for neuroblastoma with MYCN proto-oncogene (MYCN) amplification is of great challenge, due to its aggressive invasion and chemoresistance. In our study, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between MYCN-amplified and non-amplified neuroblastoma tissues were analyzed using "limma" R package. Then, DEGs were screened by silencing or enhancing expression of MYCN in neuroblastoma cells, and distal-less homeobox 5 (DLX5) was identified to be the downstream target gene. The positive correlation between DLX5 and MYCN expression was confirmed in neuroblastoma tissues and cell lines. Overall survival analysis suggested that high expression of DLX5 predicted poor clinical outcome.Then, DLX5 was demonstrated to promote proliferation and migration of neuroblastoma. Gene set enrichment analysis revealed that base excision repair and nucleotide excision repair processes were enriched in samples with DLX5 high expression. Thus, the half-maximal inhibitory concentration was measured and cisplatin treatment assay was carried out. The results revealed DLX5 promoted cisplatin chemoresistance of neuroblastoma. To explore the mechanism, mRNA sequencing was conducted and AKT signaling was suggested to be the mainly regulatory pathway, which was further verified in cells and tumor tissues. Then, we proved that heart and neural crest derivatives expressed 2, paired like homeobox 2B, GATA binding protein 3, and MYCN coregulated the expression of DLX5 at the transcriptional level, and identified the direct binding site of MYCN on DLX5 promoter. Finally, we demonstrated that DLX5 which was transcriptionally activated by MYCN, promoted growth, metastasis and chemoresistance of neuroblastoma through enhanced AKT phosphorylation. The findings in our study provided new insight for progression and chemoresistance of neuroblastoma.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cadherin-17 (CDH17, LI-cadherin) is a non-classical cadherin with an atypical structure and unique functions. CDH17 expression is restricted to normal intestinal epithelium. Furthermore, CDH17 functions as an oncoprotein that promotes tumor migration and invasion in colorectal, gastric, and pancreatic cancers. Therefore, CDH17 is an important diagnostic marker and therapeutic target. The CDH17-directed strategies, including monoclonal antibodies (mAbs), bispecific Abs, antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs), and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, have been evaluated in preclinical and clinical studies. Therefore, developing mAbs that specifically recognize cell surface-expressing CDH17 is essential for advancing both tumor diagnosis and therapy.Anti-human CDH17 mAbs (named Ca17Mabs) were developed by immunizing a mouse with CDH17-overexpressed cells and a high-throughput screening using flow cytometry.Among Ca17Mabs, a clone, Ca17Mab-5 (IgG1, κ) specifically recognized CDH17-overexpressed Chinese hamster ovary-K1 (CHO/CDH17) cells with no detectable cross-reactivity to 21 other CDHs by flow cytometry. Ca17Mab-5 also detected endogenous CDH17 in human colorectal cancer cell lines, COLO201 and COLO205. The apparent dissociation constant (KD) values of Ca17Mab-5 for CHO/CDH17 and COLO205 were estimated as 1.5 × 10-8 M and 1.3 × 10-8 M, respectively. Furthermore, Ca17Mab-5 detected endogenous CDH17 by Western blotting. In immunohistochemistry, Ca17Mab-5 exhibited clear membranous staining in normal colon epithelium, colorectal, gastric, and pancreatic cancers.Ca17Mab-5 is a versatile tool for detecting CDH17 and has potential for tumor diagnosis.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42476270 is a review article
Acquired resistance to osimertinib poses a major challenge in treating EGFR-mutant lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). Here, we demonstrate that shikonin, a natural compound from Lithospermum erythrorhizon, synergizes with osimertinib to overcome this resistance by inducing ferroptosis. In osimertinib-resistant LUAD cells (PC9-OR/H1975-OR), the shikonin-osimertinib combination significantly enhances cytotoxicity and suppresses proliferation while triggering ferroptotic events, including reactive oxygen species accumulation, lipid peroxidation, and iron overload alongside glutathione depletion. RNA-sequencing identifies Hes family BHLH transcription factor 1 (HES1) downregulation as crucial to this process. HES1 knockdown replicates the combination's effects, confirming its key role. Mechanistically, ATF3 is identified as a direct transcriptional target of HES1, with HES1 binding to the ATF3 promoter (-786 to -779 nt) to repress its transcription. The shikonin-osimertinib combination relieves this repression, leading to ATF3-mediated suppression of the ferroptosis regulators SLC7A11 and GPX4. In vivo, this combination potently inhibits tumor growth in xenograft models without observable toxicity. Our study reveals a novel HES1/ATF3 axis governing ferroptosis and proposes shikonin as a promising therapeutic adjuvant to overcome osimertinib resistance in LUAD.
Cadherin-17 (CDH17) is a cell-adhesion molecule physiologically expressed along the intestinal epithelial tight junctions. Aberrant overexpression of CDH17 in gastrointestinal (GI) cancers promotes tumor growth and metastasis and is associated with poor patient prognosis. Due to its restricted expression in normal tissues and strong association with malignancy, CDH17 represents an emerging therapeutic target for GI tract cancers.A high-affinity anti-CDH17 monoclonal antibody (TAVO307) was generated and conjugated with auristatin-derived cytotoxic payloads to obtain CDH17-directed antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs). In parallel, a VHH antibody capable of activating γδ T cell receptors from both Vδ1 and Vδ2 subsets was identified and combined with the anti-CDH17 antibody to generate CDH17-targeted T cell engager (TCE) to recruit γδ T cells, which are abundant in the intestinal mucosa and play a critical role in tumor immunosurveillance. An attenuated interleukin-15 (IL-15) fused with the IL-15 receptor α sushi domain was further incorporated on TCE to enhance γδ T cell expansion and activation.CDH17-based ADCs exhibited potent and selective cytotoxicity in multiple GI cancer cell lines and significant tumor regression in xenograft models. The CDH17 γδ TCE induced tumor antigen-dependent γδ T cell degranulation and redirected both Vδ1 and Vδ2 T cells to effectively kill CDH17-expressing cancer cells. IL-15 fusion further augmented γδ T cell expansion and activation.Both CDH17-targeted ADCs and γδ TCEs demonstrated promising potency and efficacy to control GI cancers. They could offer complementary therapeutic options that could be used in combination therapy.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Chinese Antibody Society.
The Six1 (SIX homeobox 1) gene is pivotal in renal and pulmonary development and differentiation. Its dysregulation is implicated in oncogenesis and tumor progression via enhancing cell proliferation and delaying senescence. However, whether or how it functions in the natural aging have not been investigated. To answer this question, we generated Six1 gene knockout mice using CRISPR-Cas9 technology. All Six1 biallelic knockout mice died at birth since the underdeveloped lungs. In Six1+/- mice, the developmental deficiencies in kidneys with vacuolar degeneration and epithelial disruption in renal tubules, as well as hematopoietic interstitial infiltration and lungs with interstitial condensation and alveolar hypoplasia were observed. These developmental deficiencies persist with age and age-dependent phenotypes become more pronounced in Six1+/- mice compared to the wild-type, with upregulation of senescence markers (p16, p53) and senescence-associated secreted factors (e.g., TNF-α, TIMP-2), increased α-SMA expression and collagen deposition, as well as susceptibility to pulmonary fibrosis. Transcriptomic sequencing coupled with bioinformatics analysis indicated that genes with altered expression in Six1+/- mouse lungs showed enrichment in pathways associated with senescence, including the NF-κB and TNF signaling pathways. These transcriptional patterns were also associated with gene sets involved in mitochondrial metabolic processes. Collectively, these findings suggest that Six1 haploinsufficiency is associated with transcriptional signatures linked to aging-related pathways under physiological conditions in mice, providing potential clues for future studies exploring mechanisms of aging.© 2026. The Author(s).
BI 905711, a TRAILR2/cadherin-17 (CDH17) bispecific antibody, demonstrated preclinical apoptotic pathway activation and antitumor activity. Two phase Ia/Ib studies tested BI 905711 monotherapy (NCT04137289) or combination therapy (NCT05087992) in advanced, refractory gastrointestinal (GI) cancers.Both studies aimed to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD; phase Ia) and recommended phase II dose (RP2D)/recommended dose for expansion (RDE; phase Ib). In phase Ia, patients received BI 905711 monotherapy (0.02-4.8 mg/kg) or 0.6 to 1.2 mg/kg plus biweekly folinic acid (leucovorin), 5-fluorouracil, and irinotecan (FOLFIRI) and bevacizumab. Phase Ib assessed selected doses and regimens given biweekly or weekly (3 weeks on and 1 week off). Safety, efficacy, and pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics were evaluated.In NCT04137289, 110 patients [median age 61 years; 80% with colorectal cancer; median of three prior therapies (range, 1-6)] received monotherapy. No dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) occurred, MTD was not reached, RP2D was not determined, and 48.2% of patients had treatment-related adverse events (TRAE), most commonly nausea (16.4%). In 104 response-evaluable patients, 22.1% achieved stable disease (SD). In NCT05087992, 12 patients with colorectal cancer (median age 54.5 years) received combination treatment. Two patients reported DLTs, MTD was not reached, and the selected RDE was 0.6 mg/kg plus biweekly FOLFIRI and bevacizumab. Most patients (91.7%) had TRAEs, including decreased appetite (33.3%), alanine transaminase increased, aspartate transaminase increased, and diarrhea (25% each). Eleven patients (91.7%) achieved SD. Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic data indicated linear dose exposure and ≥2-fold activation of plasma caspase 3/7.In heavily pretreated patients with GI tumors, BI 905711 monotherapy or with FOLFIRI plus bevacizumab displayed a manageable safety profile and limited clinical activity.Translating preclinical activity of TRAILR2 agonists into the clinic has been hampered by severe hepatotoxicity. BI 905711, a bispecific antibody against TRAILR2 and CDH17, was developed to enhance efficacy and reduce hepatotoxicity. Two phase 1 studies (NCT04137289 and NCT05087992) demonstrated tolerability and minimal hepatotoxicity, dose-proportional pharmacokinetics, and increased markers of target engagement. Antitumor activity was limited. These data show that BI 905711 has reduced TRAIL-related hepatotoxicity in the clinic.©2026 The Authors; Published by the American Association for Cancer Research.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC) is the most common primary liver cancer, with high recurrence and metastasis rates, and its molecular mechanisms remain incompletely understood.The cancer genome atlas (TCGA) database was used to obtain LIHC-related information. TNMplot, gene expression profiling interactive analysis (GEPIA), and kaplan-meier plotter were used for differential gene expression analysis, visualization, and assessing the relationship between genes and patient survival. Reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and western blot (WB) were used to detect gene and protein expression levels. Cell transfection was used for gene knockdown and overexpression. Transwell and wound healing assays were used to evaluate cell migration and invasion. The jaspar database was used to predict transcription factor-gene interactions. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and dual-luciferase assays were used to validate transcription factor-gene binding.Never in mitosis gene a related kinase 2 (NEK2) was highly expressed in LIHC, and its high expression potentially had a negative impact on patient survival. NEK2 knockdown reduced the migration and invasion abilities of LIHC cells, decreased the expression of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) markers neural cadherin (N-cadherin) and vimentin, and increased epithelial cadherin (E-cadherin) expression, whereas NEK2 overexpression showed the opposite effects. E2F transcription factor 1 (E2F1) was also highly expressed in LIHC and positively regulated NEK2, exhibiting similar regulatory effects on LIHC cells. Moreover, NEK2 was positively correlated with Wnt/β-catenin marker catenin beta 1 (CTNNB1), as well as Notch signaling markers notch receptor 1 (NOTCH1), jagged canonical notch ligand 1 (JAG1), HES family BHLH transcription factor 1 (HES1), and HES-related family BHLH transcription factor with YRPW motif 1 (HEY1).The E2F1/NEK2 axis promotes the activation of Wnt/β-catenin and Notch signaling pathways and induces EMT to drive malignant behavior of LIHC cells.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41928253 is a review article
Chemoresistance greatly impairs the effectiveness of chemotherapy in gastric cancer (GC) patients. According to our prior results, Cadherin-17 (CDH17) contributes to chemoresistance in GC through activating the Wnt/β-catenin pathway; however, its specific molecular mechanisms require further elucidation. We compared the Wnt/β-catenin pathway activation levels between cisplatin (DDP)-resistant GC cell lines and their parental cell lines. Subsequently, we carried out loss-of-function and gain-of-function tests to investigate CDH17 for its effect on regulating β-catenin expression, nuclear transport, as well as transcriptional activity within DDP-resistant GC cells. Additionally, CDH17 was examined for its role in the expression of four ABC transporters using molecular assays. Finally, rescue experiments were carried out using the Wnt signaling pathway agonist CP21R7 and inhibitor IWR-1 to elucidate the specific mechanism of CDH17 in promoting chemotherapy resistance of GC cells. The results showed that the activation level of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway was significantly elevated in DDP-resistant GC cell lines compared to their parental cell lines. Silencing CDH17 resulted in reduced expression, impaired nuclear translocation, and decreased transcriptional activity of β-catenin, whereas overexpression of CDH17 had the opposite effects. Notably, CDH17 was shown to specifically regulate the expression of ABCB1 (protein name: P-glycoprotein, P-gp) in resistant cells, with no observable impact on the other three ABC transporters (ABCC1, ABCG2, and ABCC2) examined. Importantly, treatment with IWR-1 effectively reversed the enhancing effect of CDH17 overexpression on P-gp protein expression, as well as its suppressive effects on DDP accumulation and chemosensitivity. Conversely, administration of CP21R7 attenuated the inhibitory consequences of CDH17 silencing on P-gp expression, DDP efflux, and drug resistance. In conclusion, CDH17 promotes the expression and nuclear translocation of β-catenin in GC cells, leading to activation of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway, which subsequently upregulates ABCB1/P-gp expression and enhances cellular capacity for DDP efflux. These findings imply that targeting CDH17 could be a potential strategy for overcoming chemotherapy resistance in GC.
Barrett's esophagus (BE) represents a critical precancerous lesion arising from chronic gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), with significant risk of progression to esophageal adenocarcinoma. Despite advances in transcriptomic technologies, including single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), the molecular mechanisms underlying the GERD-to-BE transition remain incompletely understood. Comprehensive transcriptomic profiling at both bulk and, prospectively, single-cell resolution is essential for identifying disease-driving molecular signatures and cellular heterogeneity. This study aimed to systematically characterize the transcriptomic landscape of GERD and Barrett's esophagus through integrative bulk RNA-sequencing analysis, with the goal of establishing a foundational framework for future single-cell transcriptomic investigations.A balanced cohort of N=40 patients (n=20 GERD, n=20 Barrett's esophagus) was enrolled. Esophageal tissue samples were collected via endoscopic biopsy and subjected to high-throughput RNA sequencing. Rigorous quality control, read alignment (HISAT2), and gene expression quantification (StringTie) were performed. DESeq2 was employed for differential expression analysis with stringent criteria (|log2FC| ≥ 1.0, FDR < 0.05). Functional enrichment analysis was conducted using Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) databases. Integration of gene expression data with clinical parameters enabled comprehensive clinical-molecular association analyses. Multi-dimensional visualization approaches, including volcano plots, heatmaps, principal component analysis (PCA), and network diagrams, were utilized to present the transcriptomic landscape.Transcriptomic profiling identified 1,247 significantly differentially expressed genes (673 upregulated, 574 downregulated) between GERD and Barrett's esophagus, with balanced distribution of upregulated and downregulated genes. Functional enrichment analysis revealed significant involvement of DEGs in critical biological processes including extracellular matrix remodeling, epithelial cell proliferation, inflammatory response, and immune regulation. KEGG pathway analysis highlighted activation of cancer-related signaling cascades, including PI3K-Akt, cell cycle regulation, and ECM-receptor interaction pathways, suggesting that Barrett's esophagus exhibits partial molecular characteristics of malignant transformation. Correlation analysis demonstrated that specific genes (MMP7 (matrix metalloproteinase 7) and CDH17 (cadherin 17)) showed dose-response relationships with disease severity, while CXCL8 (interleukin-8) expression was significantly associated with treatment resistance. Longitudinal monitoring revealed heterogeneous disease progression trajectories among patients, with inflammation scores ranging from 3.0-6.5 points and exhibiting variable temporal dynamics. Three-dimensional clinical feature space analysis confirmed distinguishable distribution patterns between GERD and Barrett's esophagus patients, though with partial overlap indicating disease continuum characteristics.This comprehensive transcriptomic study unveils the molecular complexity underlying GERD-to-Barrett's esophagus progression, identifying key genes and pathways that drive pathological transformation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The causal relationship between systemic inflammation and dental caries remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the bidirectional causal association between circulating cytokines and the risk of dental caries. A bidirectional 2-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) study was conducted. Genetic instruments for 132 circulating cytokines were obtained from 2 large-scale genome-wide association study consortia (n = 8293 and n = 14,824). Summary statistics for dental caries were sourced from the FinnGen consortium (n = 1,95,395). The inverse variance weighted method was used for the primary analysis, supplemented by a range of sensitivity analyses (e.g., MR-Egger, weighted median, MR-PRESSO) to assess the robustness of the findings and detect horizontal pleiotropy. Genetically predicted higher levels of several cytokines were causally associated with an increased risk of dental caries, including CXCL9 (odds ratio [OR] = 1.25, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.05-1.49 and CTACK (OR = 1.15, 95% CI: 1.04-1.27). Conversely, higher levels of IFN-γ (OR = 0.79, 95% CI: 0.65-0.96), IL-17 (OR = 0.83, 95% CI: 0.71-0.97), and RANTES (OR = 0.85, 95% CI: 0.76-0.96) were associated with a reduced risk. In the reverse analysis, genetic liability for dental caries was causally linked to increased levels of Artemin and decreased levels of Cystatin D and IL-2RA. Sensitivity analyses confirmed the robustness of these associations. Our findings reveal a bidirectional causal relationship between specific inflammatory cytokines and dental caries. This suggests that systemic inflammatory pathways both contribute to and are influenced by the pathogenesis of dental caries, highlighting potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Preterm birth (PTB) is a major cause of neonatal morbidity and mortality and is closely associated with dysregulated inflammatory responses at the maternal-fetal interface. Excessive activation of inflammatory signaling pathways often represents a terminal event in PTB, highlighting the need to identify upstream immunoregulatory factors involved in disease pathogenesis. This study investigated Artemin (ARTN), a member of the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor family, as a potential regulator of inflammation-associated PTB.A total of 56 pregnant women, including cases of infectious preterm birth (IPB), non-infectious preterm birth (NIPB), and term birth (TB), were enrolled. Maternal plasma samples were analyzed using OLINK proteomics, and placental tissues were examined by immunohistochemistry and Western blotting. Differentially expressed inflammatory proteins were further evaluated using Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway analyses. The diagnostic performance of ARTN was assessed using receiver operating characteristic curve analysis. In addition, an LPS-induced mouse model of inflammation-driven PTB was used to evaluate the potential protective effect of exogenous ARTN supplementation.ARTN expression was significantly reduced in maternal circulation and placental tissues in IPB and showed a strong positive correlation with gestational age. Enrichment analyses indicated that ARTN-associated inflammatory proteins were involved in cytokine-cytokine receptor interactions and JAK-STAT signaling. Receiver operating characteristic analysis demonstrated that ARTN exhibited strong discriminatory power for IPB, with an area under the curve of 0.864, and the predictive performance was further enhanced when ARTN was combined with IL-6. In the LPS-induced mouse model, ARTN supplementation markedly reduced preterm delivery and fetal mortality.These findings suggest that ARTN may be involved in inflammation-associated PTB and may have potential value as a candidate predictive biomarker. However, because the human plasma samples were collected across a broad gestational age range and largely in a peripartum clinical context, the present data do not establish ultra-early predictive utility. Given the relatively small sample size and lack of independent validation, these results should be interpreted as preliminary and require confirmation in larger prospective cohorts.© 2026 Zhang et al.
Previous studies have reported causal associations between gut microbiota and inflammatory skin diseases; however, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Inflammatory cytokines may mediate the gut-skin axis. This study aimed to investigate the mediating roles of inflammatory cytokines in the associations between gut microbiota and inflammatory skin diseases.Genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary data for 473 gut microbiota taxa, 91 inflammatory cytokines, and 11 inflammatory skin diseases were analyzed. Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses were performed using the inverse variance weighted method as the primary approach. Two-step MR analysis was further conducted to evaluate the mediating effects of inflammatory cytokines.Ten inflammatory cytokines were identified as potential mediators linking gut microbiota and inflammatory skin diseases. Interleukin (IL)-10 and IL-18 mediated associations with eczema, while IL-18R1 mediated associations with eczema and atopic dermatitis. Fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-19 and IL-6 mediated associations with allergic contact dermatitis. In addition, C-C motif chemokine ligand 23 (CCL23), vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A), artemin (ARTN), IL-8, and Delta and Notch-like epidermal growth factor-related receptor (DNER) mediated associations involving alopecia areata, vitiligo, seborrheic dermatitis, and rosacea. All identified inflammatory cytokines showed mediation proportions greater than 5%.Our findings suggest that specific inflammatory cytokines may mediate the associations between gut microbiota and inflammatory skin diseases. These results provide new insights into the gut microbiota-cytokine-skin disease axis and may contribute to the identification of potential therapeutic targets for inflammatory skin diseases.© 2026 Hu et al.
Chemoresistance is the primary hindrance to effective gastric cancer (GC) treatment. Artemin (ARTN) exerts oncogenic roles in various malignancies (including GC), yet its involvement in GC chemoresistance remains unelucidated. This work sought to clarify the function of ARTN and the mechanism in GC chemoresistance.ARTN expression was detected via qPCR and western blotting. The functions of ARTN in GC chemoresistance were evaluated in vitro by CCK-8, apoptosis, and colony formation assays, which were also determined in vivo using a xenograft mouse model. Immunohistochemistry was adopted to measure Ki67 (a marker of proliferation) and cleaved caspase 3 (a marker of apoptosis) in tumor tissues. ELK4 phosphorylation was assessed through immunoprecipitation and western blotting. ChIP-qPCR was employed to determine the binding of ELK4 and ABCB1.ARTN was aberrantly upregulated in GC cells, particularly in chemo-resistant GC cells; its knockdown efficaciously sensitized chemo-resistant GC cells to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), reduced proliferation, and enhanced apoptosis. In vivo, ARTN deficiency restrained tumor growth in chemo-resistant xenograft mice under 5-FU treatment, with downregulated Ki67 and upregulated cleaved caspase 3 in tumor tissues. Molecular mechanism experiments revealed that ARTN facilitated ELK4 phosphorylation and increase ABCB1 expression in GC cells by activating KRAS/ERK signaling. Crucially, ARTN overexpression impaired GC cell sensitivity to 5-FU in vitro, which was abrogated by ELK4 or ABCB1 knockdown.ARTN promotes GC chemoresistance by upregulating ABCB1 expression via modulating ELK4 phosphorylation, offering a likely therapeutic approach to reverse GC chemoresistance.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Adenomatoid tumor is a rare benign neoplasm of mesothelial origin occurring in various anatomical locations, including the uterus. In this article, we describe an adenomatoid tumor of the uterus exhibiting severe nuclear atypia in the clinical context of long-term hormone therapy. The patient was a 51-year-old woman who underwent total abdominal hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy for uterine leiomyomas. Gross evaluation of the uterus revealed multiple intramural and subserosal unencapsulated nodules that were both well and poorly circumscribed and measured from 4 to 25 mm. Microscopically, one of the nodules consisted of hyperplastic leiomyocytes intermixed with irregular vascular-like and tubular spaces lined by flattened cells that occasionally showed moderate to severe nuclear atypia (enlargement, hyperchromasia, and multinucleation). Bizarre pleomorphic cells were also present. Mitotic activity was minimal. The tumor cells showed diffuse positivity for calretinin, keratin AE1/AE3, L1 cell adhesion molecule, and podoplanin, while CD31, CD34, epithelial membrane antigen, HMB45, MDM2, and S100 protein stains were negative. Expression of BRCA1-associated deubiquitinase 1 and methylthioadenosine phosphorylase was retained. This immunophenotype supported a mesothelial origin of the neoplastic cells, leading to the final diagnosis of adenomatoid tumor with marked nuclear atypia. Unusual histopathological findings in adenomatoid tumors, such as marked nuclear atypia and pleomorphism, may pose significant diagnostic challenges and result in misdiagnosis. Despite these unusual features, the tumor in our study showed no evidence of aggressive behavior or malignant transformation. Although we hypothesize that these changes may be related to prolonged hormone therapy, their pathogenesis and clinical significance remain unclear, underscoring the need for further investigation.
Degenerative Joint Disease (DJD) is a form of highly prevalent osteoarthritis in humans and animals, including cats, which causes significant pain and hypersensitivity. Despite its prevalence, the mechanisms underlying the DJD-associated pain in cats are poorly understood. While transient receptor potential (TRP) ion channels are expressed in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and are implicated in osteoarthritis pain (e.g., through Artemin/GFRA3-mediated changes to TRPV1 and TRPA1 electrical properties), there is currently only indirect evidence of TRP ion channel expression in the feline DRG. This study aims to address this knowledge gap.Fura-2 based in vitro calcium imaging was used to confirm the functional expression of TRPV1, TRPV2, TRPA1, and TRPM8 in healthy cat DRG neurons. A quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) with SYBR green was used to confirm and compare mRNA expression of pain sensors including TRPV1, TRPV2, TRPV4, TRPA1, TRPM3, TRPM8, MRGPRD, TAC1, and GFRA3 in the DRG neurons of healthy cats and DJD group. Finally, serum artemin concentrations were quantified using enzyme linked-immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and compared between healthy and DJD cats.Functional responses of TRPV1, TRPV2, TRPA1 and TRPM8 were determined via calcium imaging in DRG neurons obtained from healthy cats. Gene expression is further extended into healthy vs. DJD cats. While TRPV1, TRPV2, and TRPM8 showed a >1.5-fold increase in cats with DJD compared to healthy controls, MRGPRD mRNA expression showed a corresponding ∼1.5-fold decrease. However, these increases or decreases in fold-change did not reach statistical significance. GFRA3, a receptor for artemin, was found to be expressed in the cat DRG, though its levels remained unchanged in DJD-affected cats. Lastly, a significant association was found between serum artemin concentrations and radiographic DJD scores but not with veterinarian pain scores.Our findings characterize functional expression of several pain and hypersensitivity-associated TRP ion channels in cat DRG neurons and identify the Artemin/GFRA3/TRP axis as a potential driver of chronic pain. The expression of channels, including TRPV1, TRPA1, and TRPM8 modulated by Artemin/GFRA3 pathway was confirmed. Bridging these cellular findings to DJD state, the observed correlation between serum artemin concentrations and radiographic DJD scores further implicates this pathway in disease severity. These results provide potential early evidence that the Artemin/GFRA3/TRP axis drives pain in feline DJD. This conservation is consistent with findings in other species, such as rodents and canines, suggesting translational relevance for therapeutic targeting.© 2026 Wheeler, Tamamoto-Mochizuki, Gruen, Lascelles and Mishra.
The immune and sensory nervous systems, having evolved in parallel, communicate through shared receptors and transmitters to maintain homeostasis and respond to both external and internal disruptions. Although neural responses often confer protective benefits, they can also exacerbate inflammation during allergic reactions such as asthma. In our study, we modeled pollution-exacerbated asthma by exposing mice to ambient PM2.5 particles alongside ovalbumin. Compared to exposure to ovalbumin alone, this co-exposure significantly increased the numbers of neutrophils and γδ T cells in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and lung tissue, respectively. We found that silencing nociceptor neurons at the peak of inflammation using intranasal QX-314 or ablating Trpv1-expressing neurons reduced lung neutrophil accumulation. Live in vivo intravital imaging confirmed that neuronal ablation reduced neutrophil numbers and increased their net displacement capacity. In neurons isolated from mice with pollution-exacerbated asthma, the chemical-sensing TRPA1 channel exhibited heightened sensitivity to its cognate ligand. Elevated levels of artemin were detected in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of pollution-exposed mice but returned to baseline in mice with ablated nociceptor neurons. Alveolar macrophages expressing the pollution-sensing aryl hydrocarbon receptor were identified as a putative source of artemin following exposure to PM2.5. This molecule enhanced TRPA1 responsiveness and, in turn, drove nociceptor-mediated neutrophil recruitment, revealing a novel mechanism by which lung-innervating neurons respond to air pollution in the context of allergy. Overall, our findings suggest that targeting artemin-driven pathways could provide a therapeutic strategy for controlling neutrophilic airway inflammation in asthma, a clinical condition typically refractory to treatment.© 2024, Wang et al.
Epidermal hyperinnervation is a partial cause of antihistamine-resistant itch. The nerve repulsion factor semaphorin 3 A (Sema3A) plays a key role in regulating intraepidermal nerve fiber density. In a preliminary study, we screened pre-existing drugs for potential Sema3A inducers and identified benzimidazole anthelmintics as Sema3A inducers in normal human epidermal keratinocytes (NHEKs).This study aimed to investigate the mechanisms underlying Sema3A induction by benzimidazole anthelmintics, such as parbendazole, in NHEKs.Parbendazole was added to NHEKs or a reconstructed human epidermis (RHE) model and incubated for 24 h at 37°C. Sema3A expression levels were analyzed by quantitative real-time PCR and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Cell viability was assessed using a cell-counting kit-8 assay or methylthiazole tetrazolium assay. The molecular mechanisms of Sema3A induction by parbendazole were examined using signaling inhibitors and siRNAs. Phosphorylation of Jun-N-terminal kinase (JNK) and c-Jun was analyzed by western blotting.Parbendazole dose-dependently increased Sema3A gene expression and extracellular secretion in NHEKs, with similar results observed in RHE models. Parbendazole also upregulated the expression of the nerve repulsion factor KAL-1 mRNA. Regarding nerve elongation factors, parbendazole decreased nerve growth factor levels, whereas amphiregulin and artemin remained unchanged. Parbendazole promoted JNK and c-Jun phosphorylation in NHEKs. JNK inhibitors suppressed parbendazole-mediated Sema3A induction. Additionally, siRNA targeting c-Jun and the AP-1 inhibitor T-5224 both suppressed parbendazole-induced Sema3A upregulation.Parbendazole dose-dependently induced Sema3A expression via the JNK/c-Jun signaling axis. Benzimidazole anthelmintics may have potential for developing new antipruritic drugs.Copyright © 2025 Japanese Society for Investigative Dermatology. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related deaths globally. The Like-Smith (LSM) family members are involved in RNA metabolism and tumor progression, but their role in HCC remains unclear. This study aims to construct a novel signature based on LSM family members-related genes and explore its clinical value in HCC.Molecular patterns related to LSM family members were identified through clustering analysis. Differential expression analysis was used to identify genes with potential prognostic significance. Multivariate Cox regression analysis was performed to construct a signature with The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) cohort. The International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC) cohort served as external validation. Kaplan-Meier curves and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were used to evaluate the predictive ability. Enrichment analysis, immune infiltration assessment, and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data analysis were conducted to explore the underlying mechanisms.Two genes-paired-like homeodomain 2 (PITX2) and chromogranin A (CHGA)-were ultimately identified as a novel signature for HCC. Based on the risk score derived from the signature, samples were divided into high- and low-risk groups. Results indicated that the high-risk group had significantly poorer overall survival in both TCGA and ICGC cohorts. The ROC curves demonstrated that the signature exhibits stable predictive accuracy. Enrichment analysis showed that the high-risk group was associated with tumor-related pathways. Differences in immune infiltration were observed between high- and low-risk groups. scRNA-seq analysis indicated that PITX2 and CHGA were highly expressed in hepatocytes.The novel two-gene signature comprising PITX2 and CHGA effectively predicts survival outcomes in HCC patients and is closely associated with tumor metabolism and immune regulation. This signature may serve as a valuable tool for prognostic evaluation and guiding personalized treatment strategies for HCC patients.© AME Publishing Company.
Soft tissue defects and injuries, such as gingival recession, those requiring dermal tissue filling, and other indications, affect millions worldwide, yet autologous grafting remains the standard of care in most instances, despite donor site morbidity and limited tissue availability. Tissue-engineered alternatives have strong potential to overcome these limitations. We evaluated an 8 mm-diameter, 1 mm-thick layered electrospun composite formed from polar/hydrophobic/ionic polyurethane with methacrylated gelatin (FD-PHI) and polycarbonate urethane (PCNU), seeded with a co-culture of human adipose-derived stem cells (ASCs) and microvascular endothelial cells (HAMVECs). A 1:2 HAMVEC:ASC ratio supported interconnected CD31+ network formation and upregulated key proangiogenic factors (e.g., artemin, IL-1β, CXCL16, Serpin B5, leptin) after 7 days in vitro. Constructs were implanted subcutaneously into immunocompromised rats. Both cellular and acellular layered grafts integrated with the host tissue, aided by interlayer spacing facilitating tissue infiltration; however, cellular constructs exhibited significantly greater vessel density and diameter at 90 days. Pro-angiogenic proteins such as TGFBI, ITGAV, THY1, and PARVA were upregulated at early timepoints, which subsided over time, suggesting that a temporary upregulation may be sufficient to induce long-term outcomes for vascular function. Further proteomic analysis of the explants revealed an upregulation of laminin and collagen VI expression in cellular grafts, suggesting enhanced support for the development of the basement membrane. The work successfully shows the fabrication of a fully autologous EC and fibroblast-like co-culture, from a single adipose sample. This work holds promise as an alternative to current autologous grafting techniques, while overcoming challenges in preparing clinically applicable co-cultures.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Palmitoylation is a reversible post-translational modification that regulates protein trafficking, stability, and function, yet its contribution to immune cell death in teleosts remains largely unknown. Using large yellow croaker ( Larimichthys crocea) as a teleost model, this study identified the palmitoyltransferase zDHHC20b ( LczDHHC20b) as the infection-responsive zDHHC20 paralog that promoted necroptosis in monocytes/macrophages (MO/MΦ) during Pseudomonas plecoglossicida infection. LczDHHC20b knockdown disrupted inflammatory cytokine regulation and markedly reduced necroptotic cell death. Acyl-biotin exchange assays combined with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry identified TIR-domain-containing adapter-inducing interferon-β (TRIF), a central adaptor in innate immune signaling, as a cell death-related palmitoylation substrate of LczDHHC20b. Infection progressively increased TRIF palmitoylation at Cys92 and Cys142, which enhanced recruitment of receptor-interacting serine/threonine kinase 3 (RIPK3), promoted phosphorylation of RIPK3 and mixed lineage kinase domain-like protein (MLKL), and activated necroptosis. LczDHHC20b knockdown or pharmacological inhibition of palmitoylation with 2-bromopalmitate (2-BP) impaired TRIF-RIPK3 complex assembly and suppressed downstream necroptotic signaling. Palmitoylation-deficient TRIF also exhibited reduced localization to endoplasmic reticulum- and trans-Golgi network-associated compartments, suggesting that palmitoylation contributes to the spatial organization of TRIF-dependent signaling. These findings provide the first evidence of TRIF palmitoylation and establish this modification as a previously unrecognized post-translational mechanism regulating TRIF-mediated immune cell death. The identified LczDHHC20b-TRIF-RIPK3 axis further defines a lipid-dependent pathway that controls necroptosis in teleost macrophages and shapes host-pathogen interactions during bacterial infection.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42456380 is a review article
Ovarian senescence is the fundamental cause of reduced fertility in female animals,however, the molecular characteristics of ovarian ageing in sheep remain insufficiently defined. In this study, ovarian tissues were collected from 12 Qira Black sheep and assigned to group D (1-2 years, n = 6) and group H (5-6 years, n = 6) for LC-MS/MS-based proteomic profiling. A total of 458 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified between the two groups, including 211 upregulated and 247 downregulated proteins. Functional enrichment analyses indicated that these DEPs were mainly involved in cell-cycle regulation, oocyte maturation, amino acid metabolism, and inflammation-related signalling pathways, with the Rat Sarcoma(Ras) and Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase Pathway(MAPK) signalling pathways showing particularly strong enrichment. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis revealed close interactions among Intraflagellar transport 80(IFT80), Insulin receptor(INSR), Angiopoietin-like 4(ANGPTL4), Receptor interacting serine/threonine kinase 3(RIPK3), Nuclear receptor corepressor 1(NCOR1), and Fms-Related Tyrosine Kinase 4(FLT4), with Insulin receptor(INSR) occupying a central hub position. Collectively, this study establishes a differential proteomic atlas of ovarian ageing in Qira Black sheep, highlights the potential importance of Rat Sarcoma(Ras) and Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase Pathway(MAPK) signalling in this process, and identifies Insulin receptor(INSR) as a candidate target, thereby providing a theoretical basis for subsequent mechanistic studies and the development of molecular markers.Copyright © 2026 Guo, Pei, Liu, Wang, Qiao, Xu and Liu.
The renal cancer stem cells (RCSCs) have highly proliferation, resistance to radiotherapy and chemotherapy, and enhanced invasive and tumorigenic capacities characteristics. 3-Aroyl-1,4-diarylpyrrole (ARDAP) is a potent microtubule inhibitor developed by our team; however, its specific killing effects on RCSCs remain unknown. Furthermore, clinical application of ARDAP is restricted by shortcomings such as poor water solubility and low utilization rates. Here, we developed polyethylenimine-coated superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles loaded with ARDAP (ARDAP@SPION-PEI) to overcome these barriers and evaluated their efficacy in mouse RCSCs (mRCSCs) and zebrafish. In vitro and in vivo experiments demonstrated that ARDAP@SPION-PEI significantly inhibited mRCSCs proliferation, migration, and tumorigenicity while suppressing angiogenesis in zebrafish. ARDAP@SPION-PEI treatment significantly upregulated the expression of key PANoptosis pathway genes. Assay for transposase-accessible chromatin using sequencing revealed widespread chromatin accessibility alterations, with prominent enrichment of the transcription factor zinc finger protein 148 (ZFP148). Luciferase reporter assays demonstrated that ZFP148 directly bound to and activated promoters of key PANoptosis-related genes, including receptor-interacting serine/threonine kinase 3 (Ripk3), gasdermin D (Gsdmd), IL-1β (Il1b), and caspase-1 (Casp1). Chromatin immunoprecipitation-polymerase chain reaction further showed significantly enhanced promoter occupancy at the histone H3 lysine 4 trimethylation site following treatment, indicating transcriptionally active chromatin states. Silencing ZFP148 attenuated gene activation and reduced cell death induction. In conclusion, ARDAP@SPION-PEI induces mRCSC PANoptosis by remodeling chromatin structure to promote ZNF148-mediated transcription, offering a promising epigenetic-based nanotherapeutic strategy for renal cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pathological TAR DNA-binding protein-43 (TDP-43) is a defining feature of several neurodegenerative diseases, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the mechanism by which TDP-43 pathology disrupts microglial function and drives neuroinflammation remains unclear. In this study, we demonstrated that cytoplasmically mis-localized TDP-43 exacerbated neuroinflammation, induced cell death, and impaired phagocytic function in microglial cells, primarily through receptor interacting serine/threonine kinase 3 (RIPK3)-dependent necroptosis. Pharmacological inhibition of RIPK3 with GSK872 markedly attenuated these pathological effects in vitro. These findings were further corroborated in a murine model with cytoplasmic TDP-43 mis-localization, where GSK872 treatment remarkably alleviated neuroinflammation and restored cognitive deficits. Mechanistically, our findings indicate that the nuclear depletion of TDP-43, resulted from its cytoplasmic mis-localization, impairs its ability to transcriptionally repress the Ripk3 gene, subsequently leading to RIPK3 upregulation and activation of RIPK3-dependent necroptosis. Collectively, our findings establish RIPK3-dependent necroptosis as a critical driver of TDP-43 pathology-mediated neuroinflammation and identified necroptosis as a promising therapeutic target in TDP-43-associated neurodegenerative disorders.© 2026. The Author(s).
Although genome sequencings have recognized many cancer-associated genes in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), distinguishing their functional effect remains challenging. Leveraging on a genome-wide CRISPR knockout (KO) screening, we uncovered spliceosome factors as major survival essential genes in HCC and up-regulations of ferroptosis suppressors [particularly glutamate-cysteine ligase catalytic subunit (GCLC)] in lenvatinib resistance. Our KO screen in patient-derived HCC organoid showed splicing factor 3b subunit 4 (SF3B4) to be top-ranked, conferring prosurvival signal in HCC organoid and driving tumorigenic potentials in both hepatic progenitor organoids and hydrodynamic tail vein injection HCC murine model. The combined RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing, long-read isoform sequencing, and transcriptome revealed characteristic splicing landscape regulated by SF3B4 and identified T-box transcription factor 3 (TBX3) variant TBX3+2a as a potent downstream effector. Our findings highlighted vital roles of SF3B4 in HCC cell survival and tumor progression, and the phenomenon of ferroptosis resistance in patients unresponsive to first-line agent lenvatinib.
By mapping histone modifications in a human stem cell model of hepatic differentiation, we identified an enhancer landscape that is dynamic and stage specific, with many primed at the definitive endoderm stage. While hepatic enhancers gained active histone modifications, non-hepatic enhancers lost H3K4me1 after hepatic specification. T-box transcription factor 3 (TBX3) was found to bind to hepatic enhancers and promoters. TBX3 binding was transient, and only upon the dissociation of TBX3 from its bound regions were active histone modifications acquired. Subsequently, transcription was activated, supporting a role for TBX3 in directly activating the hepatic lineage. Constitutive overexpression of TBX3 indicated that dissociation of TBX3 is crucial for gene activation. TBX3 did not bind to any pancreatic regulatory regions directly, indicating indirect repression of the pancreatic lineage. Together, this suggests that TBX3 plays a role in identifying and bookmarking hepatic enhancers and promoters during specification, which subsequently will be activated to drive cell identity.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Liver fibrosis is characterized by sustained injury stress, chronic inflammation, and repeated cell death and repair, all of which promote the progression of end-stage liver diseases (eg, liver cirrhosis and carcinoma). As an endoplasmic reticulum-residential protein, Nogo-B strongly regulates macrophage function, but whether Nogo-B-decorated macrophages affect inflammation and progression during liver fibrosis is unclear. The purpose of our current study was to elucidate the roles of Nogo-Bhigh macrophages during liver fibrosis development.The expression and distribution of Nogo-B were analyzed in clinical specimens and animal models. By utilizing myeloid-specific Nogo-B knockout (Nogo-Bmko) mice, the mechanism and functionality of Nogo-Bhigh macrophages were investigated in 3 murine liver fibrosis models, which were induced separately by bile duct ligation, methionine- and choline-deficient diets, and carbon tetrachloride administration.Our study revealed the predominant expression of Nogo-B in fibrotic liver macrophages and its positive correlation with fibrosis stage. Myeloid-specific Nogo-B deficiency effectively alleviated liver inflammation, injury, and fibrosis in 3 liver fibrosis models. Importantly, Nogo-B deficiency inhibited NOD-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome activation and necroptosis in macrophages both in vivo and in vitro. Notably, receptor-interacting serine-threonine kinase 3 (RIPK3) is vital for Nogo-B-driven NLRP3 inflammasome activation and necroptosis in macrophages. Additionally, adoptive transfer of macrophages revealed that the Nogo-B/RIPK3 axis promoted NLRP3 inflammasome activation and necroptosis and accelerated liver fibrosis. Mechanistically, Nogo-B-mediated recruitment of ubiquitin-specific protease 14 restricted the degree of RIPK3 ubiquitination and increased RIPK3 stabilization.Nogo-B facilitates liver fibrosis by recruiting the deubiquitination enzyme USP14, which increases the stabilization of RIPK3 and promotes NLRP3 inflammasome activation and necroptosis in macrophages.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The aim of this study is to determine the possible role of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) dysregulation in the ischemic electrical remodeling observed in patients with myocardial infarction (MI) and elucidate the underlying mechanisms.Human heart tissue was obtained from the border of the infarct and remote zones of patients with ischemic heart disease, and mouse heart tissue was obtained from the peri-infarct zone. NMDAR expression was detected using immunofluorescence (IF) and Western blotting (WB). Spontaneous ventricular arrhythmias (VAs) in mice were detected using electrocardiogram backpacks. Electrical remodeling post-MI was detected using patch clamp recordings, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reactions, IF, and WB. Mechanistic studies were performed using bioinformatic analysis, plasmid and small interfering RNA transfection, lentiviral packaging, and site-directed mutagenesis.NMDAR is highly expressed in patients with ischemic heart disease and mice with MI. NMDAR inhibition reduces the occurrence of VAs. Mechanistically, NMDAR activation promotes electrophysiological remodeling, as characterized by decreased Nav1.5, Kv11.1, Kv4.2, Kv7.1, Kir2.1, and Cav1.2 expression in patients with ischemic heart disease and mice with MI and rescues these ion channels dysregulation in mice with MI to varying degrees by NMDAR inhibition. Decreased Nav1.5 expression and inward sodium current density were attenuated by NMDAR inhibition in primary rat cardiomyocytes. Moreover, NMDAR activation upregulates T-Box Transcription Factor 3 (TBX3) post-translationally, further downregulating Nav1.5 transcriptionally. Furthermore, AKT1 is the predominant isoform in the ventricular myocardium upstream of TBX3 and mediates NMDAR-induced TBX3 upregulation in cardiomyocytes.NMDAR activation contributes to MI-induced VAs by regulating the AKT1-TBX3-Nav1.5 axis, providing novel therapeutic strategies for treating ischemic arrhythmias.© 2025 The Author(s). Acta Physiologica published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Scandinavian Physiological Society.
Mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT)-driven necrosis and necroptosis are regulated variants of cell death that can drive inflammation or even promote antigen-specific immune responses. In oncological settings, indolent inflammatory reactions have been consistently associated with accelerated disease progression and resistance to treatment. Conversely, adaptive immune responses specific for tumor-associated antigens are generally restraining tumor development and contribute to treatment sensitivity. Here, we harnessed female C57BL/6J mice lacking key regulators of MPT-driven necrosis and necroptosis to investigate whether whole-body defects in these pathways would influence mammary carcinogenesis as driven by subcutaneous slow-release medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA, M) pellets plus orally administered 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA, D), an in vivo model that recapitulates multiple facets of the biology and immunology of human hormone receptor positive (HR+) breast cancer. Our data demonstrate that female mice bearing a whole-body, homozygous deletion in peptidylprolyl isomerase F (Ppif), which encodes a key regulator of MPT-driven necrosis commonly known as CYPD, but not female mice with systemic defects in necroptosis as imposed by the whole body-deletion homozygous of receptor-interacting serine-threonine kinase 3 (Ripk3) or mixed lineage kinase domain like pseudokinase (Mlkl), are more susceptible to M/D-driven carcinogenesis than their wild-type counterparts. These findings point to CYPD as to an oncosuppressive protein that restrains HR+ mammary carcinogenesis in mice, at least potentially via MPT-driven necrosis.© 2025. The Author(s).
Natriuretic peptide receptor 2 (NPR2) expression in the hypertrophic zone of the growth plate is essential for endochondral ossification. Heterozygous variants in the NPR2 gene have been identified in 2-6 % of idiopathic short stature cases. Here, we present a large family with a novel heterozygous NPR2 variant, detailing endocrine features and long-term recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) therapy outcomes.A total of 18 subjects among the family exhibited short stature. The proband was a 5.2-year-old boy presenting with proportionate short stature, delayed bone age, facial abnormalities, premature delivery, small for gestational age and hypospadias. Whole-exome sequencing revealed a novel heterozygous variant, c.553G>A variant, in the NPR2 gene, leading to the missense variant site in the extracellular ligand-binding domain of NPR2 protein. All the family members with NPR2 gene mutation demonstrated marked short stature, except for four subjects. Five other children who received rhGH therapy were also included in the results. The difference between bone age and chronological age in all six children ranged from -2.3 to 0 years. The average height SDS before rhGH treatment ranged from -4.01 to -1.20 (-2.59 ± 1.16). The treatment has lasted for 4.68 ± 2.68 years, and height SDS improved by 1.54 ± 0.78 after rhGH therapy.Our study confirms NPR2 variants as a cause of familial short stature (FSS), with variability in phenotypes, clinical features, and rhGH response, even within families. Early genetic testing might be crucial for offspring with FSS, as it allows for timely initiation of rhGH therapy.© 2026 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.
Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) in Northeast Thailand is characterized by late diagnosis and poor prognosis, creating a critical need for effective early-detection biomarkers. This study utilized a multi-omics approach to identify novel diagnostic targets and improve CCA screening. Initial serum proteomic and transcriptomic analyses revealed significant upregulation of the luteinizing hormone/choriogonadotropin receptor (LHCGR) in CCA patients, correlating with advanced disease stages. Interaction network analysis subsequently identified its circulating ligand, beta-human chorionic gonadotropin (β-hCG), as a highly translatable clinical target. The protein expression of β-hCG was assessed via immunohistochemistry (IHC) in 100 tissue samples, and serum levels of β-hCG, alongside routine markers (CA19-9, AFP, and CEA), were quantified in a cohort of 405 individuals, including 153 CCA patients. IHC confirmed significantly higher β-hCG expression in tumor tissues compared to adjacent areas (p < 0.0001). Serum β-hCG levels were significantly elevated in CCA patients and correlated with tumor volume and reduced overall survival. Diagnostically, a combined multiparameter panel (β-hCG, carbohydrate antigen 19-9, carcinoembryonic antigen, and alpha-fetoprotein) yielded excellent accuracy in distinguishing CCA from healthy controls (AUC: 0.962) and hepatocellular carcinoma cases (AUC: 0.890). However, discriminatory efficiency was notably lower when differentiating CCA from benign biliary diseases (AUC: 0.680) and liver metastases (AUC: 0.705). In conclusion, activation of the LHCGR signaling axis is a novel pathophysiological feature in CCA. When integrated into a multi-marker blood panel, circulating β-hCG serves as a valuable complementary risk-stratification and prognostic tool, though further optimization is required to overcome limited specificity in the presence of confounding liver pathologies before routine clinical implementation.
While genetic factors strongly influence brain aging trajectories, variants conferring cognitive resilience remain poorly characterized. The neurokinin-3 receptor (NK3-R), encoded by Tachykinin Receptor 3 ( TACR3) , modulates cholinergic signaling in memory circuits vulnerable to aging. Previous studies linked the non-WT expression of the TACR3 variant rs2765 with cognitive decline and reduced volume of the hippocampus and basal forebrain, but systematic replication and mechanistic validation were lacking.We investigated rs2765 in the preregistered AgeGain cohort of cognitively healthy older adults (n=188) with independent validation in the ADNI cohort (n=809) which includes persons with and without Alzheimer's Disease (AD) that show healthy cognition, mild cognitive impairment or dementia. Analyses integrated structural neuroimaging, longitudinal cognitive assessments, epigenetic aging (PhenoAge), genome-wide methylation profiling, and mechanistic validation through luciferase assays and cross-species protein expression studies.The infrequent protective rs2765 WT variant, found in 12.8% of Europeans, conferred 49% slower cognitive decline ( p = 0.002) for amyloid-positive individuals of the ADNI cohort and 3.7 years younger epigenetic age ( p = 0.013, 95% CI: 0.79-6.67 years) in the cognitively healthy AgeGain cohort. WT carriers showed larger hippocampal and basal forebrain volumes across cohorts, with Allen Brain Atlas integration revealing these outcomes to occur exclusively in regions where TACR3 expression positively correlated with gray matter volume. Mechanistically, the non-WT variant ameliorated RBMX-mediated post-transcriptional regulation, reducing NK3-R protein expression by 25-40% in vitro and ex vivo murine brain slice models. Senescence-accelerated mice exhibited reduced endogenous NK3-R expression, phenocopying the predicted functional consequences of the variant. In AgeGain participants, genome-wide methylation profiling identified 2,313 differentially methylated CpGs affecting 228 pathways spanning glutamatergic signaling, acetylcholine receptor pathways, chromatin remodeling, and angiogenesis, suggesting coordinated molecular reprogramming from synaptic function to systemic aging.rs2765 WT confers resilience to age- and AD-related cognitive decline through RBMX-dependent regulation of NK3-R expression, with effects of remarkable size cascading from memory to systemic aging. rs2765 genotyping could stratify individuals for NK3-R modulator therapy (e.g., fezolinetant or senktides) and identify those maintaining function despite pathological burden, complementing APOE-based risk assessment in precision geromedicine.
The luteinizing hormone/choriogonadotropin receptor (LHCGR) is essential for Leydig cell function, gonadal steroidogenesis, and male sexual differentiation. Loss-of-function variants in LHCGR are a rare cause of 46,XY differences of sex development (DSD). We report 2 46,XY adult sisters born to consanguineous parents, who presented with primary amenorrhea and absent secondary sexual characteristics. Both exhibited tall stature, female external genitalia, hypergonadotropic hypogonadism with very low testosterone levels. Imaging revealed bilateral cryptorchid testes and absence of Müllerian structures. Both sisters underwent bilateral gonadectomy, and histopathological findings provide strong morphological support for Leydig cell hypoplasia. Genetic testing identified a novel homozygous splice-site variant (c.384-2A>G) in LHCGR, predicted to cause aberrant splicing and a loss of receptor function. These findings expand the mutational spectrum of LHCGR-related DSD, a rare cause of 46,XY DSD.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society.
Normal follicular development forms the foundation for female reproductive performance, a process critically supported by angiogenesis. However, vascular endothelial zinc finger 1 (VEZF1), a key transcription factor regulating angiogenesis, was unexpectedly found to negatively regulate the survival of porcine ovarian granulosa cells (GCs) in our previous study. This study aimed to further explore whether and how VEZF1 regulates porcine GC growth. Using cell cycle analysis, cell proliferation assays, and RNA-seq analysis, we found that VEZF1 expression was significantly downregulated during follicular development (p < 0.01). Overexpression of VEZF1 arrested the cell cycle at the G0/G1 phase, reduced the proportion of S-phase cells, and inhibited cell proliferation (p < 0.05), whereas knockdown of VEZF1 exerted the opposite effects. Overexpression of VEZF1 downregulated Cytochrome P450 family 19 subfamily A member 1 (CYP19A1), but upregulated Cytochrome P450 family 11 subfamily A member 1 (CYP11A1) and Steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (STAR) protein expression, accompanied by increased progesterone levels. Mechanistically, VEZF1 activated the cAMP/PKA signaling pathway through upregulating luteinizing hormone/choriogonadotropin receptor (LHCGR) and adenylate cyclase 8 (ADCY8). In summary, this study demonstrated that VEZF1 acts as a negative regulator of GC proliferation, and its overexpression induces premature luteinization of GCs accompanied by the loss of proliferative activity. These findings establish VEZF1 as a key regulator of follicular development and lay the foundation for further exploring the application of VEZF1 in regulating reproductive performance in sows.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Hyperpigmentation disorders remain challenging to treat because most available agents mainly act on downstream melanogenic enzymes rather than upstream regulatory mechanisms. In this study, we identified AOP-P1, an amphibian skin-derived nonapeptide, as a potent anti-melanogenic peptide with nanomolar activity and no detectable cytotoxicity. By integrating in vitro and in vivo functional assays with transcriptomic profiling, receptor-binding studies, genetic perturbation, and pathway validation, the natriuretic peptide receptor 2 (NPR2) was identified as a unrecognized upstream regulator of melanogenesis in previous and also a mechanistically relevant target of AOP-P1. We further showed that AOP-P1 suppresses melanin production by inhibiting the NPR2/cGMP/MITF signaling axis, thereby attenuating UVB-induced hyperpigmentation. Collectively, our findings define AOP-P1 as a naturally derived bioactive peptide with receptor-linked anti-melanogenic activity and establish an NPR2-centered molecular basis for peptide-mediated regulation of pigmentation. These results expand current understanding of melanogenesis control and support the value of natural peptides as bioactive molecular scaffolds for pigmentation-related research.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42072331 is a review article
The luteinizing hormone/choriogonadotropin receptor (LHCGR) gene is potentially a useful genetic marker for cattle reproductive status. This study aimed to investigate the impact of the LHCGR gene's ss52050737 polymorphism on age at first calving (AFC), calving interval (CI), and ovarian status using the TaqMan PCR assay. AFC was categorized into 25-34 and 35-45 months, while CI was grouped into 330-410 and 411-800 days. Ovarian status was classified as active or inactive ovaries. Blood samples were collected from cows using EDTA-containing vacutainer tubes and stored at -20°C until DNA extraction and analysis. Three genotypes (GG, GT, and TT) were identified for the LHCGR gene SNP (ss52050737). The homozygous GG genotype was more frequent in cows with a CI of 330-410 days, and the genotype distribution showed a statistically significant association (p = 0.018) in cows with CI 330-410 and 411-800 days. On the other hand, the GG genotype was not significantly different in relation to AFC and ovarian status (active or inactive). These findings suggest that the ss52050737 polymorphism of the LHCGR gene has an impact on calving interval, and the G allele is associated with the CI of 330-410 days.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Human Chorionic Gonadotropin (hCG) mediates the activation of luteinizing hormone/choriogonadotropin receptor (LHCGR) by binding to it, which is critical for human reproduction. However, specific dynamics of such interaction remain ambiguous. Herein, we utilized single-molecule force spectroscopy (SMFS) to carry out quantitative analysis during the binding between hCG and separate LHCGR domains. Two distinct binding mechanisms were detected within the LHCGR extracellular domain (ECD), associated with the hinge loop and leucine-rich repeats (LRRs), respectively. Compared to the hinge loop, the LRRs-hCG interaction exhibited a bimodal energy landscape with an exceptionally stable outer barrier (binding lifetime τ 18.4 vs. 0.67 s). Furthermore, the same dual-binding mode was observed from full-length LHCGR on membranes of living cells, confirming the physiological relevance of these distinct binding mechanisms. To explore beyond the experimental measurements, we performed molecular dynamics simulations. The computational outcomes revealed a sequential, three-step hCG/LHCGR dissociation process during which electrostatic forces could facilitate hCG/hinge loop interactions multiple times. Consequently, the anchorage-dependent activation of LHCGR mediated by hCG was specified. Overall, our SMFS-based strategy deciphers the dynamic recognition code of hCG/LHCGR interaction and provides a new clue for developing therapeutic strategies targeting glycoprotein hormone receptors.© 2026 The Protein Society.
Cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury (CIRI) usually has a high mortality and disability rate, and inflammatory stimulation is an important risk factor for CIRI. ISL LIM Homeobox 1 (ISL1) is involved in the regulation of inflammatory response, and its role in CIRI progression has not been reported. Here, we established an animal model of transient middle cerebral artery occlusion/reperfusion (tMCAO/R) and found that ISL1 was up-regulated in the peri-infarct cortex of tMCAO/R mice (log2FC = 4.7, adj. p < 0.01) and improved neurological dysfunction and reduced infarct size. At the same time, we found that ISL1 suppressed the expression of proinflammatory markers in the peri-infarct cortex. Consistently, in an oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R)-induced microglial HMC3 cell model, ISL1 overexpression significantly curtailed the inflammatory response, as evidenced by reduced iNOS and CD16/32 expression. Mechanistically, dual-luciferase and ChIP assays confirmed that ISL1 promotes the transcriptional activation of Stanniocalcin 1 (STC1) by enhancing H3K4me3 enrichment at its promoter region. Furthermore, GST pull-down analyses suggested that this transcriptional regulation is likely mediated through the physical interaction between ISL1 and WDR5, which may recruit the MLL complex to facilitate H3K4me3 deposition. Collectively, our findings indicate that the ISL1-WDR5-H3K4me3 axis contributes to the upregulation of STC1, thereby attenuating neuroinflammation and CIRI-induced brain injury.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The expression of the Wingless-related integration site (WNT) signaling pathway molecules has been reported to be aberrant in periodontitis.This case-control study aimed to determine the salivary concentrations of sclerostin (SOST), Dickkopf-related protein 1 (DKK1) and WNT family member 5a (WNT5a) and their ability to distinguish systemically healthy patients with periodontitis - across different progression rates - from periodontally healthy controls.A total of 90 individuals participated in this study (30 healthy controls, 30 Grade B periodontitis patients, and 30 Grade C periodontitis patients). Salivary samples were collected using the unstimulated saliva collection method. Subsequently, clinical periodontal parameters were recorded. The enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was utilized to determine the salivary levels of SOST, DKK1 and WNT5a.The salivary levels of SOST and DKK1 were significantly higher in Grade B periodontitis patients (14.85 ±3.28 ng/mL and 3.65 ±1.11 ng/mL, respectively) and Grade C periodontitis patients (7.45 ±3.84 ng/mL and 1.68 ±0.46 ng/mL, respectively) than in healthy controls (4.37 ±0.97 ng/mL and 0.88 ±0.15 ng/mL, respectively). Notably, their levels were significantly higher in periodontitis Grade B than in Grade C (p < 0.0001). The WNT5a salivary levels were also considerably higher in Grade B periodontitis patients (6.58 ±3.28 ng/mL) and Grade C periodontitis patients (13.41 ±1.73 ng/mL) than in healthy controls (2.03 ±0.31 ng/ml). Unlike SOST and DKK1, WNT5a showed significantly higher levels in periodontitis Grade C as compared to Grade B (p < 0.0001). Additionally, the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis demonstrated that SOST, DKK1 and WNT5a showed significant diagnostic accuracy in distinguishing periodontitis from periodontal health with the area under the curve (AUC) values of 0.96, 0.97 and 0.99, respectively, and also in distinguishing periodontitis Grade B from periodontitis Grade C with AUC of 0.94, 0.97 and 0.92, respectively.The salivary levels of SOST, DKK1 and WNT5a demonstrated high diagnostic value in distinguishing generalized periodontitis from periodontal health. The WNT5a levels increased with disease progression, effectively differentiating Grades B and C. Similarly, SOST and DKK1 also distinguished these grades, with higher levels in Grade B than in Grade C.
Robinow syndrome has characteristic craniofacial and dental features and can be caused by gain- or loss-of-function variants in Wnt family member 5A (WNT5A) non-canonical signaling. The craniofacial and dental manifestation of Robinow syndrome is heterogenous, as is the effect of altered Wnt5a in animal models. The relationship between Wnt5a and craniofacial and dental phenotypes is not fully understood. To investigate the role of Wnt5a in bone during craniofacial and dental development, we utilized a Wnt5a conditional loss-of-function (LOF: Wnt5afl/fl;Ctskcre ) and a Wnt5a conditional gain-of-function (GOF: Rosa26-LSL-Wnt5a;Ctskcre ) model to determine the effect of both LOF and GOF of Wnt5a in bone cells during craniofacial and dental development. Postnatal day 10 conditional LOF Wnt5a, GOF Wnt5a, and control skulls were scanned by micro-CT and assessed using traditional and geometric morphometrics. Mandibular bone apoptosis was further assessed by TUNEL staining. Conditional Wnt5a LOF resulted in midface hypoplasia, increased maxillary intermolar width, increased rostral basisphenoid width, and delayed molar eruption. Wnt5a LOF mandibles did not have altered BMD or bone microarchitecture unlike our previous study examining Wnt5a LOF femurs. In contrast, conditional Wnt5a GOF results in macrocephaly, shortened hard palate, increased zygomatic length, micrognathia, and mandibular process dysmorphology. The micrognathia and mandibular process dysmorphology in the Wnt5a GOF mice were not due to increased apoptosis. A partially penetrant snout deviation was present in both the Wnt5a LOF and GOF mice. Craniofacial and dental phenotype differed between mice with conditional GOF and LOF of Wnt5a, consistent with the craniofacial phenotype heterogeneity in WNT5A-associated Robinow syndrome. We detected tooth eruption delay, mandibular condyle dysmorphology, and facial asymmetry in mice with altered Wnt5a that have not been previously reported in patients with WNT5A-associated Robinow syndrome. Our data suggest precise regulation of Wnt5a is essential for proper craniofacial and dental development.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.
Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy (EDMD) is a rare genetic disorder characterized by early-onset joint contractures, progressive muscle atrophy, and cardiac abnormalities. Patients with EDMD carrying LMNA sequence variations often exhibit severe cardiac manifestations, including frequent atrioventricular block and ventricular tachycardia. Approximately 20% of those patients may ultimately require heart transplantation. The molecular mechanisms by which LMNA sequence variations lead to EDMD remain unknown.Five clinically diagnosed patients with EDMD carrying LMNA sequence variations were recruited. Patient-specific induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) were generated using a nonintegrating Sendai virus. Previously generated iPSCs, derived from 2 healthy donors, were used as controls. The LMNA L204P sequence variation was corrected by genome editing in EDMD iPSC lines to generate isogenic controls. All iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes (iPSC-CMs) were generated using a monolayer-based differentiation protocol. Three-dimensional, strip-format, and force-generating human engineered heart tissues were generated from iPSC-CMs. A knock-in mouse model carrying the Lmna L204P sequence variation was also generated.EDMD-specific iPSC-CMs exhibited a variety of deleterious phenotypes, including disorganized sarcomeres, abnormal nuclear envelope structure, arrhythmias, and contractile dysfunction, when compared with control and gene-corrected iPSC-CMs. Multi-omics analysis further revealed that LMNA directly binds the WNT5A promoter and the Leu204Pro sequence variation reduces chromatin accessibility and WNT5A transcription in EDMD iPSC-CMs. WNT5a (Wnt family member 5a)/RhoA (Ras homolog family member A) signaling inactivation was shown to lead to actin depolymerization and inhibition of actin polymerization in EDMD iPSC-CMs. This results in a deformed nuclear envelope, contractile dysfunction, and impaired trafficking of Cx43 (connexin 43). The impairment of Cx43 trafficking causes reduced distribution of Cx43 at cell-cell borders, contributing to the arrhythmic phenotype in EDMD iPSC-CMs. Pharmacological interventions of exogenous WNT5a supplementation, RhoA activator, or an actin polymerization stabilizer effectively rescued the pathogenic phenotypes of EDMD iPSC-CMs. EDMD engineered heart tissues displayed dysfunctional contractile force generation, which was significantly alleviated by RhoA activator. Lmna L204P heterozygous knock-in mice exhibited impaired cardiac function and developed cardiac arrhythmias in response to sympathetic stress.We present WNT5a-mediated aberrant actin filament dynamics as a novel mechanism underlying cardiac pathogenic phenotypes in LMNA-related EDMD. Our findings indicate that activating WNT5a/RhoA and stabilizing actin assembly may serve as novel therapeutic strategies for this condition.
Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is a recalcitrant malignancy with limited responses to immunotherapy, largely due to its uniquely immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME). However, the molecular mechanisms driving this phenotype remain incompletely understood.We integrated single-cell RNA sequencing and Xenium in situ spatial transcriptomics to analyze the immune microenvironment of five SCLC and four non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) samples. Multiplex immunofluorescence was used to validate cell types and gene expression in the same tissue specimens, and animal models were employed to verify the key mechanistic pathway.SCLC displayed a distinct immune landscape compared with NSCLC, with increased infiltration of C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4)+ neutrophils (via neutrophil extracellular traps) and S100A8+ monocytes (toward an M2-like phenotype), and reduced CD8+ T-cell infiltration. Malignant epithelial cells in SCLC highly expressed CXCR4, regulated by transcription factors ISL LIM homeobox 1 and distal-less homeobox 5, which promoted immunosuppression. The C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 12 (CXCL12)-CXCR4 axis mediated competitive inhibition, impairing T-cell recruitment while enhancing neutrophil accumulation. Monocytes in SCLC shifted toward an M2-like phenotype, weakening antigen presentation. Xenium spatial transcriptomics confirmed colocalization of CXCR4+ neutrophils and S100A8+ monocytes with tumor cells at the tumor-normal interface, while CD8+ T cells were spatially segregated. In vivo experiments showed that CXCR4 inhibition reduced SCLC tumor growth, decreased immunosuppressive cell infiltration, and enhanced CD8+ T-cell accumulation.The CXCL12-CXCR4 axis, together with immunosuppressive CXCR4+ neutrophils and S100A8+ monocytes, is a key driver of the immune-desert phenotype in SCLC. Targeting this axis holds promise as a therapeutic strategy to remodel the immunosuppressive TME and improve the efficacy of immunotherapy for SCLC.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
In adult superficial dorsal horn, 90% of Reelin (Reln+) and 70% of Disabled-1 (Dab1+) neurons co-express the transcription factor LIM-homeobox 1-beta (Lmx1b+) and therefore are glutamatergic neurons. Here we asked if embryonic Reln+Lmx1b+ and Dab1+Lmx1b+ dorsal horn neurons are derived from Lmx1b-expressing early-born dI5 or late-born dILB dorsal neurons. On Embryonic day (E)11.5, Reln+ and Dab1+ neurons appear to be part of the migration of early-born dI5 Lmx1b-expressing neurons. Between E12.5-E15.5, the lateral Reln+Lmx1b+ and Dab1+Lmx1b+ neurons migrate circumferentially along the rim of what will become the superficial dorsal horn, whereas medial Reln+Lmx1b+ and Dab1+Lmx1b+ neurons move into the dorsal midline and then migrate into lamina V. The small, late-born dILB Reln+Lmx1b+ and Dab1-Lmx1b+ neurons fill the superficial dorsal horn. In Reln mutants, large Dab1+Lmx1b+ neurons were mispositioned in lamina I and at the border between the superficial and deep dorsal horn. To confirm the identity of the circumferential and midline Reln+Lmx1b+ and Dab1+Lmx1b+ neurons, we asked if they expressed the transcription factor Zfhx3, a marker of dI5 projection neurons. We detected examples of Reln+Lmx1b+Zfhx3+ and Dab1+Lmx1b+Zfhx3+ projection neurons that migrated along the outer rim of the superficial dorsal horn and others that migrated from the midline into lamina V. Taken together, our study demonstrates that the larger Reln+Lmx1b+Zfhx3+ and Dab+Lmx1b+Zfhx3+ neurons represent two subsets of dI5 projections neurons, whereas smaller Reln+Lmx1b+ and Dab1+Lmx1b+ neurons concentrated in lamina II are likely dILB interneurons.
Reprogramming of spinal astrocytes into motor neurons holds great promise for spinal cord injury in regeneration medicine. Here we identified a set of four transcription factors-achaete-scute complex homolog-like 1, myelin transcription factor 1 like, POU class 3 homeobox 2, and ISL LIM homeobox 1-collectively referred to as the 4 F cocktail. The 4 F cocktail reprograms rat and human reactive astrocytes into motoneuron-like cells. The reprogrammed cells display neuronal morphology and stain positive for microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2), a neuronal-specific marker, and choline acetyltransferase, which is a known motor neuron-specific marker. Early in the process of astrocytic reprogramming mediated by the 4 F cocktail, quantitative real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction revealed that the expression of the astrocytic gene glial fibrillary acidic protein was inhibited. Additionally, the expression of the neural progenitor cell markers SRY-box transcription factor 2 and neural cell adhesion molecule 1 was upregulated within 5 days, while the motor neuron progenitor marker oligodendrocyte transcription factor 2 was activated within 7 days. Furthermore, the expression of the neural genes Map2, synapsin I, tubulin β-3, and neurofilament heavy, as well as the motor neural genes ISL LIM homeobox 1, motor neuron and pancreas homeobox 1, LIM homeobox 1, LIM homeobox 3, and NK6 homeobox 1, and survival of motor neuron 1 increased in the reprogrammed cells after induction with the 4 F cocktail. More importantly, 4 F cocktail-reprogrammed motoneuron-like cells can release acetylcholine and exhibited vulnerability to glutamate-induced excitotoxicity. Our findings demonstrate that the 4 F cocktail first reprograms spinal astrocytes into a neural progenitor-like and motor neuron progenitor-like intermediate plastic state, which then gives rise to motoneuron-like cells.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is considered the master pacemaker of the circadian clock in mammals, but our current knowledge of the SCN is mostly based on rodent studies. Here, we report a comprehensive molecular and cellular atlas for the adult human SCN by spatial transcriptomics, single-nucleus RNA sequencing, and deep-learning-based histological analysis. We identified seven human SCN neuron subtypes with specific transcriptomes and spatial distributions. Comparison of humans, mice, and non-human primates revealed the conserved functional segregation within the SCN regulated by LIM homeobox 1 (LHX1) and RAR-related orphan receptor B (RORB). Furthermore, our results suggested that the human SCN has undergone marked reorganization of its neuropeptide signaling network. Finally, integrative analysis of human SCN transcriptomes and genome-wide association studies (GWASs) identified arginine vasopressin (AVP)/neuromedin S (NMS) subtype as the potential neuronal correlate for morningness chronotype. Thus, our spatial and single-cell transcriptomic atlas of the human SCN provided a basis for the understanding of neural and molecular mechanisms of the human circadian clock.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Inherited renal hypomagnesemia is rare but may indicate an underlying genetic condition, and it should be considered when evaluating unexplained hypomagnesemia. 17q12 deletion syndrome, a recurrent microdeletion including HNF1B (hepatocyte nuclear factor 1 beta) and neighboring genes such as LHX1 (LIM homeobox 1) and ACACA (acetyl-CoA carboxylase alpha), is associated with renal magnesium wasting, neurodevelopmental deficits, and multi-organ involvement. However, spinal cord anomalies, particularly syringomyelia, have not been reported to date.A 12-year-old girl was referred to our pediatric nephrology department with frequent urination. Her medical history included neurodevelopmental delay, scoliosis, and behavioral abnormalities. Laboratory tests showed a serum magnesium level of 1.5 mg/dL and an elevated fractional urine magnesium excretion of 4.1%. Serum glucose, aspartate transaminase, and alanine transaminase were mildly elevated. There were no structural anomalies on urinary ultrasound and cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Radiological investigations revealed thoracolumbar scoliosis on spinal X-ray and a central syrinx extending from T3 to T6 levels on thoracic spinal MRI. Chromosomal microarray analysis identified a 1.4 Mb deletion at chromosome 17q12, which contains the HNF1B gene, confirming the diagnosis of 17q12 deletion syndrome. Oral magnesium supplementation was initiated, and the patient was referred to a multidisciplinary care team.This case highlights the importance of considering genetic etiologies, particularly 17q12 deletion syndrome, in children presenting with persistent hypomagnesemia and neurodevelopmental delay. Recognizing electrolyte imbalances, despite the absence of renal structural abnormalities, and identifying coexisting spinal cord anomalies, such as syringomyelia, may guide timely genetic evaluation and enable earlier diagnosis.
This study adopted an integrated strategy combining serum transitional component screening, network pharmacology prediction, and animal experiment verification to systematically explore the core active components and mechanism of action of Yinxing Yangnao Formula(YYF) in the treatment of vascular dementia(VD), aiming to provide solid experimental evidence for the modernization of this classical TCM prescription. With the use of ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-Orbitrap high-resolution mass spectrometry(UPLC-Orbitrap-HRMS), a total of 97 chemical components were identified from the YYF extract by combining accurate mass-to-charge ratio, characteristic fragmentation ions of MS/MS, comparison with reference standards, and matching with literature databases. Furthermore, 27 serum transitional components were captured through the analysis of YYF-containing serum from rats, which were inferred as the key material basis for the in vivo pharmacodynamic effects of YYF. The potential targets of the serum transitional components were predicted using the SwissTargetPrediction database, and VD-related disease targets were screened from authoritative databases including GeneCard, OMIM, and GEO with the keyword dementia vascular. A total of 275 common targets were obtained with the Jvenn online tool. The &quot;drug-component-target-disease&quot; network was constructed using Cytoscape 3.9.1 software, and core active components such as isoscopoletin, jaceosidin, catalpol, senkyunolide F, and bilobalide were screened out. The protein-protein interaction(PPI) network was constructed via the STRING database, identifying key regulatory targets including the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase family, sarcoma, protein tyrosine phosphatase, non-receptor type 11, Janus kinase 2, and protein tyrosine kinase 2. Gene Ontology(GO) functional enrichment and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) pathway analysis revealed that the core targets were mainly enriched in biological processes such as oxidative stress, neurological function, and immune and inflammatory responses, involving phosphoinositide 3-kinase-protein kinase B(PI3K-Akt), mitogen-activated protein kinase(MAPK), and Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription 3(JAK-STAT3) signaling pathways. Molecular docking results showed that bilobalide had a good binding effect with core targets. Verification experiments on VD rat models demonstrated that YYF might exert the therapeutic effect by alleviating oxidative stress through modulating the serum levels of superoxide dismutase(SOD), glutathione peroxidase(GSH-Px), and malondialdehyde(MDA). This study preliminarily clarified the material basis, pharmacological effects, and underlying mechanism of YYF in the treatment of VD, providing a direction and basis for subsequent research on the complete regulatory chain of &quot;drug-target-pathway-phenotype&quot;.
Mutations in protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 11 (PTPN11) have been considered late acquired mutations in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) development. Using single-cell DNA sequencing, we found that PTPN11 mutations can occur as initiating events in some patients with AML when accompanied by strong oncogenic drivers, commonly NPM1 mutations. The resulting AML has a diverse set of variably differentiated myeloid cells with few myeloid cells that lack leukemic mutations. The role of Ptpn11 as a codriver was confirmed in a murine model that exhibits an AML phenotype with a comparable immune diversity that is serially engraftable and reconstituted from early precursor cells. Furthermore, lineage-negative bone marrow cells from these mice reconstitute the full diversity of mature myeloid cells, and these cells exhibit an altered cytokine response after physiologic stimulation. Our work highlights how PTPN11-mutated AML is derived from a multitude of codominant and late acquired aberrations that have a previously unrecognized differentiated myeloid clonal expansion potentially contributing to pathogenesis of the disease.
Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a complex cardiac disorder marked by the thickening of the heart muscle.HCM and normal control cell lines were cultured in DMEM with 12.5% FBS and 1% penicillin-streptomycin at 37°C and 5% CO2. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified from GSE32453, GSE53408, and GSE113439 datasets using the limma package in R. Hub genes were determined through protein-protein interaction (PPI) network and Cytoscape analysis and validated via Reverse Transcription Quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-qPCR) and Western blot analysis. Gene enrichment, miRNA predictions, drug prediction, and molecular docking analyses were conducted for functional enrichment and to explore hub gene-associated drugs.To identify DEGs and hub genes implicated in HCM, we analyzed three Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets (GSE32453, GSE53404, and GSE1134439), extracting the top 1000 DEGs. Venn analysis revealed 21 common down-regulated genes. PPI analysis identified these six as key hub genes, including Iron Response Element Binding Protein 2 (IREB2), Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase, Non-Receptor Type 11 (PTPN11), IQ Motif Containing GTPase Activating Protein 1 (IQGAP1), Phosphoglucomutase 2 (PGM2), DIS3 RNA Exonuclease 3' to 5' (DIS3), Glutamine-Fructose-6-Phosphate Transaminase 1 (GFPT1) in HCM patients. Gene enrichment analysis highlighted the involvement of these genes in cellular functions such as energy metabolism and growth factor signaling, suggesting their role in the disease's progression. Validation using an additional dataset (GSE36961) confirmed significant down-regulation of all hub genes in HCM samples, supported by Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve analysis that demonstrated their diagnostic potential. Furthermore, miRNA analysis identified six up-regulated miRNAs (miR-124, miR-29b, miR-330, miR-34a, miR-375, and miR-451) that likely contribute to the dysregulation of these hub genes. Drug prediction analysis identified various potential therapeutic compounds targeting these hub genes. Molecular docking revealed favorable binding affinities, supporting the therapeutic potential of these drugs in modulating hub gene activity.These findings demonstrate that HCM progression involves coordinated downregulation of hub genes and miRNA-mediated dysregulation of metabolic and signaling pathways. The integration of bioinformatics, validation assays, and drug docking suggests a strong translational potential for biomarker discovery and targeted therapy.Our findings suggest that IREB2, PTPN11, IQGAP1, PGM2, DIS3, and GFPT1 hub genes and their associated regulatory pathways may serve as biomarkers and therapeutic targets for HCM, potentially improving diagnosis and treatment strategies.© 2025 The Author(s). Published by Bentham Science Publisher.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41323424 is a review article
Modeling the human blood-brain barrier (BBB) is limited by the lack of robust protocols to generate induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived brain microvascular endothelial cells (BMECs). Current methods generate cells that do not fully recapitulate key BMEC functions or the brain endothelial transcriptome identity.To address this gap, we combined directed differentiation of human iPSCs into BBB-primed endothelial cells with overexpression of FOXF2 (forkhead box F2) and ZIC3 (zic family zinc finger 3), transcription factors critical for BMEC identity, to generate reprogrammed BMECs (rBMECs) from 3 iPSC lines. We performed immunofluorescence, functional analyses, and bulk RNA sequencing to characterize these cells. We cocultured rBMECs with iPSC-derived astrocytes and pericytes in the MIMETAS microfluidics platform to assess how 3-dimensional culture influences their BBB properties. Finally, we generated rBMECs expressing familial Alzheimer disease mutation APP V717I to elucidate how this genetic variant affects barrier properties compared with exposure to oAβ42 (oligomeric amyloid-β [1-42] peptide).Transcriptomic and functional analyses show that rBMECs express a subset of the BBB transcriptome and exhibit stronger paracellular barrier properties, lower caveolar-mediated transport, and comparable PGP (P-glycoprotein) activity compared with primary human BMECs. rBMECs interact with human iPSC-derived pericytes and astrocytes to form a 3D neurovascular system in the MIMETAS microfluidics platform with robust BBB properties. Finally, APP V717I rBMECs show decreased barrier integrity and upregulation of inflammatory markers. In contrast, treatment of control rBMECs with oAβ42 increases inflammatory markers, but does not alter barrier integrity.This protocol generates rBMECs with strong BBB properties and a brain-specific transcriptome signature. In addition, the iPSC-derived 3D neurovascular unit system shows some similar properties to the in vivo human BBB. Finally, familial Alzheimer disease mutation APP V717I alters several BBB-related properties of rBMECs and their inflammatory state, independent of Aβ42 (amyloid-β [1-42] peptide).
The routine recommendation for detecting monogenic disease in fetuses with increased nuchal translucency remains controversial. This study aimed to evaluate the clinical significance and optimal strategy of whole-exome sequencing in fetuses with increased nuchal translucency.This retrospective study included pregnancies that underwent amniocentesis due to advanced maternal age, positive screening results, or abnormal ultrasound findings between January 2018 and December 2019. Chromosomal abnormalities were diagnosed using chromosome microarray analysis. Whole-exome sequencing testing was sequentially performed in fetuses with nuchal translucency≥3.5 mm. Newborns were followed up regularly until they reached 48 to 60 months of age.Of the 11,774 pregnancies undergoing amniocentesis, 607 fetuses (5.16%) had nuchal translucency≥3 mm. Chromosomal abnormalities were detected in 23.56% (143/607), including aneuploidy (13.18%, 80/607) and chromosome deletion or duplication or regions of homozygosity (10.38%, 63/607). The diagnostic yield of chromosome microarray analysis for aneuploidies and pathogenic or likely pathogenic chromosome abnormalities was 17.63% (107/607), after excluding 36 cases with variants of uncertain significance. Among the 464 fetuses with nuchal translucency≥3 mm and negative chromosome microarray analysis results, 240 cases had fetal nuchal translucency≥3.5 mm, of which 96 cases underwent whole-exome sequencing testing. Whole-exome sequencing identified diagnostic variants in genes associated with an increased nuchal translucency phenotype in 10.42% (10/96) of cases. These variants involved genes of DEAD-box helicase 3 X-linked (DDX3X), Ras like without CAAX 1 (RIT1), NIPBL cohesin loading factor (NIPBL), ankyrin repeat domain containing 11 (ANKRD11), piezo type mechanosensitive ion channel component 2 (PIEZO2), Neurofibromin 1 (NF1), ASXL transcriptional regulator 1 (ASXL1), coiled-coil domain-containing protein 22 (CCDC22), and tubulin, beta-3 (TUBB3), which are inherited in either an X-linked or autosomal dominant pattern. Adverse outcomes were observed in 80% (8/10) of these cases, including 4 induced abortions, 3 cases of developmental delay, and 1 neonatal death. A total of 86 fetuses (14.17%, 86/607) had additional ultrasound findings. Fetuses with nuchal translucency≥3.5 mm and additional ultrasound findings identified during the second trimester exhibited a significantly higher rate of chromosomal abnormalities compared to those without additional findings (44.62% vs 19.00%, P=.00). Among fetuses with nuchal translucency≥3 mm and negative chromosome microarray analysis or whole-exome sequencing testing results, 90.39% (395/437, after excluding 27 pregnancies lost to follow-up) were healthy during follow-up. The remaining approximately 10% (42 cases) experienced miscarriage, induced abortion, intrauterine fetal death, or developmental delay.Chromosome microarray analysis identified chromosomal abnormalities in 17.63% of fetuses with nuchal translucency≥3 mm. Fetuses with increased nuchal translucency and additional ultrasound findings exhibited a markedly higher rate of chromosomal abnormalities. Whole-exome sequencing provided an additional diagnostic yield of 10.42% for monogenic disorders in fetuses with nuchal translucency≥3.5 mm. Whole-exome sequencing testing, combined with data reanalysis based on subsequent prenatal or postnatal phenotypes, offers an optimal strategy for diagnosing monogenic diseases in fetuses with increased nuchal translucency.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The mechanisms contributing to metastasis tropism in breast cancer are far from being understood. The ability of cancer cells to adapt to new microenvironments plays a crucial role in that process. In this issue of Cancer Research, Jiang and colleagues explored the tumor-intrinsic differences that affect seeding and tissue colonization by focusing on two major sites of breast cancer metastasis: the lung and bone. They used genetic approaches and metastasis modeling to assess the role of forkhead box F2 (FOXF2) in remodeling the tumor microenvironment and promoting metastasis outgrowth. Their findings suggest that FOXF2 promotes a micrometastasis-to-macrometastasis transition in bones through the direct activation of NF-κB and BMP4 signaling pathways, independently of tumor subtype. In contrast, FOXF2 was found to hinder the ability of basal models to colonize the lung microenvironment through inhibition of TGFβ signaling. Collectively, these findings underscore the subtype-specific and tissue-dependent roles of FOXF2 in organotropism. See related article by Jiang et al., p. 644.©2025 American Association for Cancer Research.
Renal proximal tubules are a primary site of injury in metabolic diseases. In obese patients and animal models, proximal tubular epithelial cells (PTECs) display dysregulated lipid metabolism, organelle dysfunctions, and oxidative stress that contribute to interstitial inflammation, fibrosis and ultimately end-stage renal failure. Our research group previously pointed out AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) decline as a driver of obesity-induced renal disease. Because PTECs display high macroautophagic/autophagic activity and rely heavily on their endo-lysosomal system, we investigated the effect of lipid stress on autophagic flux and lysosomes in these cells. Using a model of highly differentiated primary PTECs challenged with palmitate, our data placed lysosomes at the cornerstone of the lipotoxic phenotype. As soon as 6 h after palmitate exposure, cells displayed impaired lysosomal acidification subsequently leading to autophagosome accumulation and activation of lysosomal biogenesis. We also showed the inability of lysosomal quality control to restore acidic pH which finally drove PTECs dedifferentiation. When palmitate-induced AMPK activity decline was prevented by AMPK activators, lysosomal acidification and the differentiation profile of PTECs were preserved. Our work provided key insights on the importance of lysosomes in PTECs homeostasis and lipotoxicity and demonstrated the potential of AMPK in protecting the organelle from lipid stress.Abbreviation: ACAC: acetyl-CoA carboxylase; ACTB: actin beta; AICAR: 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide-1-β-D-ribofuranoside; AMPK: AMP-activated protein kinase; APQ1: aquaporin 1 (Colton blood group); BSA: bovine serum albumin; CDH16: cadherin 16; CKD: chronic kidney disease; CTSB: cathepsin B; CTSD: cathepsin D; EPB41L5: erythrocyte membrane protein band 4.1 like 5; EIF4EBP1: eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; EMT: epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition; FA: fatty acid; FCCP: carbonyl cyanide 4-(trifluoromethoxy)phenylhydrazone; GFP: green fluorescent protein; GUSB: glucuronidase beta; HEXB: hexosaminidase subunit beta; LAMP: lysosomal associated membrane protein; LD: lipid droplet; LGALS3: galectin 3; LLOMe: L-leucyl-L-leucine methyl ester hydrobromide; LMP: lysosomal membrane permeabilization; LRP2: LDL receptor related protein 2; LSD: lysosomal storage disorder; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MCOLN1: mucolipin TRP cation channel 1; MG132: N-benzyloxycarbonyl-L-leucyl-L-leucyl-L-leucinal; MmPTECs: Mus musculus (mouse) proximal tubular epithelial cells; MTORC1: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase complex 1; OA: oleate; PA: palmitate; PIKFYVE: phosphoinositide kinase, FYVE-type zinc finger containing; PTs: proximal tubules; PTECs: proximal tubular epithelial cells; PRKAA: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha; RFP: red fluorescent protein; RPS6KB: ribosomal protein S6 kinase B; SLC5A2: solute carrier family 5 member 2; SOX9: SRY-box transcription factor 9; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; TFEB: transcription factor EB; Ub: ubiquitin; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; VIM: vimentin.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 27336129
Breast cancer subtypes display different metastatic organotropism. Identification of the mechanisms underlying subtype-specific organotropism could help uncover potential approaches to prevent and treat metastasis. In this study, we found that forkhead box F2 (FOXF2) promoted the seeding and proliferative recovery from dormancy of luminal breast cancer (LumBC) and basal-like breast cancer (BLBC) cells in the bone by activating the NF-κB and BMP signaling pathways. FOXF2 promoted LumBC cell seeding but not proliferative recovery in the lung by activating the BMP signaling pathway. Conversely, FOXF2 suppressed the seeding and proliferative recovery of BLBC cells in the lung by repressing the TGFβ signaling pathway. FOXF2 directly upregulated RelA/p65 transcription and expression in LumBC and BLBC cells by binding to the RELA proximal promoter region and RelA/p65 bound to the FOXF2 proximal promoter region to upregulate expression, forming a positive feedback loop. Targeting the NF-κB pathway efficiently prevented the metastasis of FOXF2-overexpressing breast cancer cells to the bone, whereas inhibiting TGFβ signaling blocked the metastasis of BLBC with low FOXF2 expression to the lung. These findings uncover critical mechanisms of breast cancer subtype-specific organotropism and provide insights into precision assessment and treatment strategies. Significance: FOXF2 regulates signaling pathways in a subtype-specific manner to coordinate the fate of disseminated breast cancer cells in distant organs, suggesting that FOXF2 functions could be harnessed to prevent organ-specific metastasis. See related commentary by Bado, p. 639.©2024 American Association for Cancer Research.
Epidemiological surveys have shown that the incidence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and malignancies is rapidly increasing worldwide and has become a major disease that threatens human life. In this study, we quantitatively analyzed the proteome of tumor tissues and adjacent normal tissues from six patients withT2DM combined with colorectal cancer (CRC) and eight non-diabetic CRC, focusing on the effect of T2DM on tumor tissues. We analyzed the functional enrichment of differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) using clusterProfiler in R and the expression level of protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 11 (PTPN11) and other key proteins in the TIMER and GEPIA2 databases. The HPA database was used to validate PTPN11 protein expression. The correlation between PTPN11 expression and clinicopathological features was analyzed by UALCAN database. The impact of PTPN11 on clinical prognosis was evaluated utilizing Kaplan-Meier Plotter. The correlation between PTPN11 expression and tumor-infiltrated immune cells was investigated via TIMER and TISIDB databases. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was performed to examined the pathway of PTPN11 enrichment in CRC using data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. Furthermore, small interfering (si) RNA was used to knock down PTPN11 in CRC cell line SW480. Western blot analysis was used to detect PTPN11 expression in tissue samples or cells and the effect of PTPN11 knockdown on key proteins related to PI3K/AKT and cell cycle pathway in SW480 cells. Cell proliferation and wound healing assays were used to detect the effects of cell proliferation and migration after knockdown of PTPN11 or treatment with high glucose. We found that metabolic pathways such as oxidative phosphorylation, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, and insulin secretion were significantly enriched in tumor tissues from diabetic patients compared to non-diabetic patients. In addition, PTPN11, a marker gene associated with T2DM and CRC, were mined in diabetic tumor tissues. PTPN11 showed high expression in diabetic tumor tissues compared to normal tissues. High PTPN11 expression predicted poor prognosis in CRC. PTPN11 expression was strongly associated with immune infiltrating cells in CRC. GSEA analysis revealed that PTPN11 was enriched in cancer-related pathways. Western blotting analysis indicated that PTPN11 knockdown reduced the protein levels of p-PI3K, p-AKT, CDK1 and CYCLIN D, without altering PI3K and AKT protein levels. Cell proliferation and wound healing data showed that PTPN11 and high glucose could increase the proliferation and migration ability. These findings showed that PTPN11 may be a potential key biomarker for CRC in patients with diabetes, which will provide new potential targets for future intervention of T2DM complicated with CRC.© 2024. The Author(s).
OBJECTIVE: Recent studies have identified persistent immune inflammation as the third core pathological change in Alzheimer’s disease (AD). Progesterone receptor membrane component 2 (PGRMC2) is a member of the membrane-associated progesterone receptor family. This study aimed to investigate the effects of the expression of PGRMC2 in astrocytes in an AD mouse model. METHODS: PGRMC2 overexpression in astrocytes was induced in male APPswe/PSEN1dE9 transgenic (AD) mice and C57BL/6J wild-type mice via an adeno-associated virus vector. The Morris water maze and Y-maze tests were used to evaluate spatial learning, spatial memory, and working memory. Cortical thickness and hippocampal volume were evaluated via brain MRI scans. Protein and mRNA levels were analyzed using Western blotting, qPCR, immunohistochemistry, and immunofluorescence techniques. RESULTS: PGRMC2 expression was significantly elevated in astrocytes in the AD mouse brain tissue. Learning and memory improved, brain atrophy was alleviated, and neuronal loss was reduced, but Aβ1–42 deposition was unaffected. These changes correlated with alterations in NF-κB signaling and shifts in astrocyte phenotypes, including reduced A1 activation and enhanced A2 polarization. CONCLUSION: PGRMC2 overexpression in astrocytes exerts neuroprotective effects on AD mice by altering astrocyte polarization and inflammatory responses; however, the present study does not establish causality in vivo.
CHARGE syndrome is a developmental disorder that affects 1 in 10,000 births, and patients exhibit both physical and behavioral characteristics. De novo variants in chromodomain helicase DNA binding protein 7 (CHD7) cause 67% of CHARGE syndrome cases. CHD7 is a DNA-binding chromatin remodeler with thousands of predicted binding sites in the genome, making it challenging to define molecular pathways linking loss of CHD7 to CHARGE syndrome phenotypes. To address this problem, here, we used a previously characterized zebrafish model of CHARGE syndrome to generate transcriptomic and proteomic datasets from larval zebrafish head tissue at two developmental time points. By integrating these datasets with differential expression, pathway and upstream regulator analyses, we identified multiple consistently dysregulated pathways and defined a set of candidate genes that link loss of chd7 with disease-related phenotypes. Finally, we identified that CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockdown of capgb, nefla or rdh5 phenocopies behavioral defects seen in chd7 mutants, functionally validating the roles of these genes. Our data provide a resource for further investigation of molecular mediators of CHD7 and a template to reveal functionally relevant therapeutic targets to alleviate specific aspects of CHARGE syndrome.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Risperidone (RIS), a first-line antipsychotic for bipolar disorder, is frequently detected in aquatic systems due to its environmental persistence. Although several studies have reported the neurotoxic effects of RIS on fishes, the underlying toxicological mechanisms remain largely unclear. To fill this gap, zebrafish embryos were exposed to environmentally relevant concentrations of RIS (0.05, 0.5, and 5 μg/L), with astaxanthin (Asta) used as an inhibitor, to investigate the neurodevelopmental toxicity of RIS. Our findings demonstrated that RIS induced morphological abnormalities and neurobehavioral deficits in larvae. This toxicity was primarily driven by the disruption of the antioxidant defense system, leading to significant oxidative stress and subsequent neural apoptosis. Crucially, RIS exposure dysregulated key neurodevelopmental genes (including neurogenin-1, mbp, manf, gfap, and c-fos) and reduced levels of critical neurotransmitters (5-HT, DA, and ACh) by 18 %-54 %, thereby impairing neuronal development and synaptic transmission. Transcriptomic profiling revealed that RIS disrupted neural cell homeostasis by modulating critical pathways such as the TNF signaling pathway, aldosterone-regulated sodium reabsorption, and tyrosine metabolism. Non-targeted metabolomic analysis further showed that RIS disrupted amino acid, purine, and pyrimidine metabolism, impairing energy supply and signal transduction in neuronal cells. Integrated multi-omics analysis established that RIS exposure disrupted lipid metabolism, promotes cell death, and impairs the metabolic homeostasis of fundamental biomolecules such as amino acids. These collective disturbances ultimately compromised energy provision, signal transduction, and neuro-metabolic homeostasis within the developing nervous system. This study delineates the mechanistic basis for RIS-induced developmental neurotoxicity, providing critical insights for its environmental risk assessment.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (CHH) is a rare disorder caused by deficient secretion or action of gonadotropin-releasing hormone. While its characteristics are well-documented in adults, data from prepubertal patients remain limited.To investigate the clinical, hormonal, and genetic characteristics of CHH in male patients aged < 18 years and assess age-related changes in testicular function.Retrospective analysis of data from patients with CHH.Tertiary pediatric endocrine referral center.Overall, 121 male patients with CHH, aged 0-18 years, were included.Hormonal profiles, genetic variants, and testicular function indicators across different age groups.All patients had micropenis, and 41.3% had cryptorchidism. The > 14-year group had fewer combined cases of both conditions but more isolated micropenis (p = 0.001). Inhibin B, luteinizing hormone, follicle-stimulating hormone, and post-human chorionic gonadotropin testosterone levels were significantly higher in the ≤ 3-year group (p < 0.05). Leydig and Sertoli cell function declined with age. Inhibin B < 33.895 pg/mL and anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) < 17.545 ng/mL predicted Leydig cell dysfunction with sensitivities of 78.5% and 85.7% and specificities of 82.3% and 73.8%, respectively. Pathogenic variants were identified in 84.6% of cases, with fibroblast growth factor receptor 1, chromodomain helicase DNA-binding protein 7, and prokineticin receptor 2 being the most frequently impacted.CHH should be suspected in boys with micropenis and cryptorchidism. AMH and inhibin B are key markers for early detection of Leydig cell dysfunction, with genetic testing being essential for diagnosis.© 2025. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41225453 is a review article
Mutations in Chromodomain Helicase DNA Binding Protein 7 (CHD7) and Paired Box Gene 4 (PAX4) are critical for normal cartilage development and are implicated through their impact on chondrocyte functions. This study examines how these genetic alterations specifically modulate Tumor protein p53 (p53) expression to affect cellular proliferation and apoptosis, shedding light on potential therapeutic targets for mitigating developmental anomalies in cartilage.Using Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeat (CRISPR)- associated protein 9 (Cas9), specific mutations were introduced into CHD7 and PAX4 in chondrocytes. Subsequent analyses included 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) assay for proliferation, Terminal deoxynucleotidyl Transferase dUTP Nick End Labeling (TUNEL) staining for apoptosis, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRTPCR), and Western blot alongside co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) to evaluate expression levels and protein interactions.Mutations in CHD7 and PAX4 resulted in decreased proliferation and increased apoptosis in chondrocytes. Notably, these mutations disrupted the interaction between the mutant proteins and p53, leading to altered expression of apoptotic regulators such as Bcl2-associated X protein (Bax), B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl2), indicating activation of p53-dependent apoptotic pathways.This study elucidates the core molecular mechanism by which mutations in the CHD7 and PAX4 genes disrupt their interaction with p53, leading to aberrant activation of the p53-dependent apoptotic pathway. These findings provide a new theoretical basis and potential intervention strategies for developing p53 pathwaytargeted therapies to treat related cartilage developmental disorders. Future research should focus on in vivo validation and mechanistic refinement.The study reveals that CHD7 and PAX4 mutations exacerbate the apoptotic pathways in chondrocytes by enhancing the activity of p53, leading to decreased cell proliferation and increased apoptosis. These findings underscore the mutations' profound impact on cartilage cell dynamics and highlight the therapeutic potential of targeting p53 to correct the cellular imbalances caused by these genetic changes in cartilage-related developmental disorders.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Chromodomain helicase DNA binding protein 7 (CHD7), an ATP-dependent chromatin remodeler, plays versatile roles in neurodevelopment. However, the functional significance of its ATPase/nucleosome remodeling activity remains incompletely understood. Here, we generate genetically engineered mouse embryonic stem cell lines harboring either an inducible Chd7 knockout or an ATPase-deficient missense variant identified in individuals with CHD7-related disorders. Through in vitro neural induction and differentiation assays combined with mouse brain analyses, we demonstrate that CHD7 enzymatic activity is indispensable for gene regulation and neurite development. Mechanistic studies integrating transcriptomic and epigenomic profiling reveal that CHD7 enzymatic activity is essential for establishing a permissive chromatin landscape at target genes, marked by the open chromatin architecture and active histone modifications. Collectively, our findings underscore the pivotal role of CHD7 enzymatic activity in neurodevelopment and provide critical insights into the pathogenic mechanisms of CHD7 missense variants in human diseases.Copyright © 2025 Institute of Genetics and Developmental Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, and Genetics Society of China. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
CHARGE syndrome is a developmental disorder that affects 1 in 10,000 births, and patients exhibit both physical and behavioral characteristics. De novo mutations in CHD7 (chromodomain helicase DNA binding protein 7) cause 67% of CHARGE syndrome cases. CHD7 is a DNA-binding chromatin remodeler with thousands of predicted binding sites in the genome, making it challenging to define molecular pathways linking loss of CHD7 to CHARGE phenotypes. To address this problem, here we used a previously characterized zebrafish CHARGE model to generate transcriptomic and proteomic datasets from larval zebrafish head tissue at two developmental time points. By integrating these datasets with differential expression, pathway, and upstream regulator analyses, we identified multiple consistently dysregulated pathways and defined a set of candidate genes that link loss of chd7 with disease-related phenotypes. Finally, to functionally validate the roles of these genes, CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockdown of capgb, nefla, or rdh5 phenocopies behavioral defects seen in chd7 mutants. Our data provide a resource for further investigation of molecular mediators of CHD7 and a template to reveal functionally relevant therapeutic targets to alleviate specific aspects of CHARGE syndrome.
Neurogenesis has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the relationship between CSF neurogenin-1 levels and cognitive decline, as well as neurodegeneration in older adults, both with and without cognitive impairment, remains unclear. The current study included 666 individuals, comprising 161 cognitively unimpaired (CU) older adults and 505 cognitively impaired (CI) older adults. To examine the association of CSF neurogenin-1 levels with changes in cognitive performance and neurodegeneration over time, we performed a series of linear mixed-effects models. In these models, baseline CSF neurogenin-1 levels served as the predictor of interest, while cognitive measures, such as Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores, and hippocampal and ventricular volumes, served as the dependent variables. Higher CSF neurogenin-1 levels were associated with a slower rate of cognitive decline over time in the CI individuals but not in the CU individuals. Regarding structural MRI features, we found that higher baseline CSF neurogenin-1 levels were associated with a slower rate of ventricular enlargement in the CI individuals but not in the CU individuals. No association was observed between CSF neurogenin-1 levels and hippocampal atrophy in either group. Our findings suggest that neurogenin-1 may play a neuroprotective role in CI individuals, potentially slowing cognitive decline and structural brain changes associated with the disease.© 2025. The Author(s).
Diminished ovarian reserve (DOR) is a critical challenge in reproductive health, leading to reduced fertility and hormonal imbalances. Current treatments such as assisted reproductive technologies and hormone replacement therapy often have limited success and adverse effects. Progesterone receptor membrane component 2 (PGRMC2) is a protein essential for various reproductive processes and is involved in ovarian folliculogenesis, with its increased expression associated with DOR. This study investigates the protective mechanisms of total flavonoids from Semen Cuscutae (TFSC) on ovarian reserve through PGRMC2 modulation and T helper 17 cell (Th17)/regulatory T cell (Treg) immune balance in a DOR rat model. DOR was induced in rats by administering 50 mg/kg tripterygium glycosides (TG) via intragastric administration once daily for 15 days. Various analytical techniques were used to assess the effects of TFSC, including immunohistochemistry for ovarian tissue analysis, Western blotting to measure PGRMC2 protein expression, flow cytometry for evaluating Th17/Treg ratio, and Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to quantify serum cytokine levels. Results demonstrate that TFSC enhances ovarian function, up-regulates PGRMC2 expression, and restores immune homeostasis, highlighting its potential as an alternative therapeutic strategy. By elucidating TFSC's role in immune modulation and ovarian function, this study paves the way for developing targeted therapies to improve outcomes for women with DOR.
This study investigated the in vitro effects of varying extracellular calcium concentrations on the proliferation and multilineage differentiation of Stem Cells from Human Exfoliated Deciduous Teeth (SHEDs), aiming to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms.SHEDs were cultured in induction media supplemented with extracellular calcium concentrations ranging from 1.8 mM to 16.2 mM. Proliferation was evaluated using cell viability assays. Osteogenic differentiation was quantified via Alizarin Red S assays, while adipogenic differentiation was assessed by Oil Red O staining. Quantitative real-time PCR (q-PCR) determined the transcript expression of osteogenic marker genes (RUNX2, COL1A1, ALP, OPN, OSX, OCN) and adipogenic marker genes (LPL and PPARγ). To identify the specific pathways involved, pharmacological inhibitors was executed using nifedipine (an L-type voltage-gated calcium channel [L-VGCC] blocker), NPS2143 (a calcium-sensing receptor [CaSR] antagonist), and U0126 (a MEK/ERK signaling inhibitor).Extracellular calcium concentration did not significantly affect SHEDs proliferation. Regarding osteogenesis, elevated calcium concentrations significantly enhanced physical calcium deposition and matrix mineralization, whereas concurrently downregulated the expressions of RUNX2 and COL1A1. Pharmacological assays showed that L-VGCC blockade significantly abolished calcium induced matrix mineralization. Regarding adipogenesis, elevated calcium consistently downregulated both LPL and PPARγ expressions. Application of the CaSR antagonist completely reversed this suppression. Conversely, L-VGCC inhibition partially restored LPL expression, while calcium supplementation successfully rescued LPL expression under conditions of MEK/ERK pathway blockade.Extracellular calcium exerts a dual, pathway specific regulatory control on SHEDs differentiation. It drives osteogenic mineralization predominantly through L-VGCC-mediated calcium influx while suppressing adipogenic lineage commitment via CaSR activation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42515677 is a review article
Polyamine metabolism is essential for cell proliferation and differentiation; however, its specific role in insulin signaling regulation remains poorly understood. Here, we uncover an unexpected role for spermidine synthase (SRM) in linking lipid overload to insulin resistance. In a teleost fish model, we demonstrate high fat diet (HFD) suppresses hepatic SRM expression via X-box binding protein 1 (XBP1)-dependent transcriptional repression. Loss of SRM, either by pharmacological inhibition or siRNA-mediated knockdown, impairs insulin signaling, as evidenced by decreased AKT phosphorylation and increased expression of gluconeogenic enzymes. Conversely, overexpression of SRM enhances insulin sensitivity and suppresses gluconeogenesis. Mechanistically, SRM-mediated regulation of the insulin signaling pathway is dependent on its downstream metabolite spermidine (SPD), which functions through AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) pathway, as the beneficial effects of SPD are abolished by the AMPK inhibitor Compound C. In addition, dietary HFD significantly decreases hepatic SPD levels by 35% and reduces the p-AKT/AKT ratio by 58% in croaker, while it elevates blood glucose levels by 39%. Conversely, SPD supplementation increases the p-AKT/AKT ratio by 131% and lowers blood glucose levels by 20%, compared with the HFD group. Taken together, our findings establish the SRM-SPD axis as a critical link between nutritional stress and insulin resistance, and highlight SPD as a potential nutraceutical for combating insulin resistance and glucose intolerance in teleost fish.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42495460 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42483646 is a review article
Autosomal dominant hypocalcemia with hypercalciuria (ADHH) is a rare genetic disorder caused by gain-of-function mutations in the calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR) gene. It is characterized by hypocalcemia, inappropriately low parathyroid hormone (PTH), and renal hypercalciuria. We describe a 13-year-old boy who was diagnosed with congenital hypoparathyroidism, persistent hypercalciuria, and mild medullary nephrocalcinosis. Despite calcium and vitamin D supplementation, hypercalciuria was aggravated. Genetic testing revealed a heterozygous c.2518G>A (p.Gly840Ser) mutation in the CaSR gene, classified as likely pathogenic (American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) Class 4). Supplementation was discontinued, and hydrochlorothiazide and potassium citrate were initiated to reduce urinary calcium and alkalinize urine. At the one-year follow-up, renal function remained preserved with no progression of nephrocalcinosis. This case underscores the importance of considering ADHH in children with hypocalcemia, suppressed PTH, and renal hypercalciuria. Early genetic testing prevents misdiagnosis and enables targeted therapy to mitigate long-term renal complications.Copyright © 2026, Makki et al.
Based on the magnetic bead &quot;fishing&quot; technology, this study explored the direct targets of the active ingredients of Shuangshen Ningxin Capsules in preventing and treating myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury. Three active ingredients of Shuangshen Ningxin Capsules, namely dehydrocorydaline, salvianolic acid B, and ginsenoside Rg_1, were selected based on previous work. Firstly, three complexes of magnetic bead-single active ingredient of Shuangshen Ningxin Capsules were synthesized. Then, they were incubated with the protein solutions of SD rat heart tissue, mouse myocardial microvascular endothelial cells, and rat H9c2 cardiomyocytes separately to form magnetic bead-active ingredient-target protein complexes. The target proteins were separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis(SDS-PAGE), and then in-gel digestion was performed. The proteins were identified by high-resolution mass spectrometry. Potential target proteins were screened by bioinformatics analysis and molecular docking. A rat model of myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury was established, and the biological function was verified preliminarily through Western blot experiments. The results showed that three complexes of magnetic bead-TCM monomer were successfully prepared, and the potential direct targets of the three active ingredients of Shuangshen Ningxin Capsules were obtained through the &quot;fishing&quot; method. Through mass spectrometry identification and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis, it was found that most of the target proteins were involved in metabolic pathways related to glucose, fatty acids, amino acids, and energy. After Venn analysis and molecular docking, proteins such as electron transfer flavoprotein subunit alpha(ETFA), pyruvate kinase M1/M2(PKM), acyl-CoA dehydrogenase medium chain(ACADM), ATP synthase F1 subunit alpha(ATP5F1A), isocitrate dehydrogenase(NADP~+) 2(IDH2), and aspartyl-tRNA synthetase(DARS) were finally screened out. Through the rat myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury model, it was found that Shuangshen Ningxin Capsules significantly up-regulated the expression of ATP energy production-related proteins such as ATP5F1A, ETFA, 3-oxoacid CoA-transferase 1(OXCT1), and succinate-CoA ligase GDP-forming subunit beta(SUCLG2). This suggested that restoring mitochondrial energy supply was an important aspect for Shuangshen Ningxin Capsules to exert myocardial protective effects. In conclusion, ATP5F1A, ETFA, OXCT1, SUCLG2, etc. may be the direct targets of the active ingredients of Shuangshen Ningxin Capsules in preventing and treating myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42249126 is a review article
The development of resistance to anticancer therapies in cancer cell is a major challenge in the treatment of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC), a common malignant tumor. Erythropoietin-producing hepatocellular A2 (EphA2) affects several cancers, and this study examined its role in enhancing OSCC. Following screening, EphA2 and SRY-Box transcription factor 8 (SOX8) knocked down and overexpression cell lines were constructed, followed by treatment with Cetuximab. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, western blot, cell counting kit-8, wound healing, and transwell assay were used to detect the relevant indicators. Co-immunoprecipitation was used to detect the interaction between EphA2 and SH2 domain-containing protein-tyrosine phosphatase-2 (SHP2). Double luciferase reporter gene experiment and chromatin immunoprecipitation experiment were performed to verify the regulatory mechanism of EphA2 and SOX8. The mouse tumor model was established, and the tumor development was observed after plasmid transfection and Cetuximab treatment. EphA2 was highly expressed in OSCC cells, and overexpression of EphA2 up-regulated SOX8. EphA2 regulated SOX8 and associated protein expression to increase OSCC cell migration and invasion. EphA2 knockdown made OSCC cells more sensitive to Cetuximab, whereas SOX8 overexpression reduced this sensitivity. We found SHP2 bound to SOX8. Down-regulation of EphA2 decreased tumor growth in mice, increased Cetuximab sensitivity, and overexpression of SOX8/SHP2 decreased Cetuximab sensitivity. OSCC had elevated EphA2 levels, which enhanced cell migration and invasion via SHP2/SOX8 and impaired Cetuximab sensitivity. Down-regulation of EphA2 decreased tumor growth and enhanced Cetuximab sensitivity, suggesting new OSCC targets and potential treatments.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Carcinogenesis published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Diabetes heightens cardiovascular risk. The selective sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitor empagliflozin (EMPA) shows cardiovascular benefits in heart failure, type 2 diabetes and chronic kidney disease. While EMPA protects against myocardial ischemia/reperfusion injury (MIRI) in diabetic and non-diabetic hearts, its mechanisms and impact on specific endpoints, including autophagy, angiocrine signaling, and metabolic flexibility, remain incompletely defined. We explored the systemic and myocardial effects of chronic EMPA pretreatment on these endpoints in diabetic and non-diabetic animals subjected to MIRI. In streptozotocin (STZ, 65 mg/kg) diabetic rats, EMPA (15 mg/kg/d, 4 weeks) reduced water intake without affecting hyperphagia or weight loss. EMPA ameliorated glucose and lipid profiles, tended to restore myocardial GLUT4 and counteract alterations in myocardial hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA synthase (HMGCS2) and 3-oxoacid CoA-transferase 1 (OXCT1) levels. EMPA improved biomarkers of myocardial damage (BNP, NT-proBNP, CK-MB, galectin 3), inflammation (cardiac NLRP3, plasma IL-1β), oxidative stress (plasma SOD and malondialdehyde), angiocrine imbalance (VEGF and apelin), fibrosis, and collagen deposition, while showing a tendency to improve autophagy and apoptosis signaling. Ex vivo, EMPA improved baseline contractility and post-ischemic recovery of left ventricular pressure (dLVP from baseline: ~+4% in STZ+EMPA vs. -25% in STZ; ~+3% in EMPA vs. -28% in MIRI), enhanced coronary flow recovery, and reduced cardiac contracture, infarct size, and coronary LDH leakage in both diabetic and non-diabetic hearts. These effects may be associated with post-ischemic histological improvements, reduced vascular congestion, increased eNOS phosphorylation, activation of cardioprotective pathways, and inhibition of mPTP opening. Consistently, EMPA enhances wound healing and preserves eNOS phosphorylation in high-glucose (HG) human cardiac microvascular endothelial cells. In human cardiomyocytes, EMPA reduced hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) cell death, preserved nitrate and nitrite levels-effects abolished in the presence of L-NAME-and improved mitochondrial membrane potential in HG and/or H/R conditions. EMPA improved metabolic health and protected myocardial and coronary function likely via a permissive microvascular and myocardial phenotype that limits reperfusion injury, supporting its use against MIRI in normal and diabetic settings.© 2026. Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs) are low-flow, thin-walled vascular conglomerates that arise within the central nervous system and constitute a significant cause of stroke. Experimental evidence indicates that mitochondrial dysfunction contributes to the pathogenesis of CCM, a disease that can be caused by PDCD10 deficiency. However, the specific mechanisms underlying mitochondrial homeostatic imbalance remain unclear. 3-oxoacid CoA-transferase 1 (OXCT1), localized in the mitochondrial matrix, serves as the rate-limiting enzyme of ketone body metabolism. Additionally, it also modulates diverse mitochondrial functions. Although the function of OXCT1 has been implicated in various diseases, its role in the progression of CCM awaits elucidation. Utilizing RNA-seq data from the CRISPR/Cas9-generated PDCD10-knockout endothelial cell line, primary endothelial cells from Pdcd10BECKO mice, and CCM patient-derived endothelial cells, this study identified OXCT1 as a hub gene involved in mitochondrial pathways during CCM progression. Loss-of-function mutations of OXCT1 in malformed vascular endothelium accelerated disease progression and mediated mitochondrial impairment. High-throughput virtual screening identified S-adenosylmethionine (SAMe) as a small-molecule drug targeting the active site of OXCT1. Furthermore, SAMe is an orally available drug with high bioavailability and a favorable safety profile, which effectively suppressed disease progression in our murine model of CCM. In conclusion, this study provides initial evidence that OXCT1 is a novel therapeutic target in CCM and that SAMe holds promise as a potential treatment.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The ketogenic diet is a controversial approach to cancer therapy. Over 30% of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cases harbor β-catenin activating mutations, among which the S33Y mutation represents a classical hotspot conferring constitutive pathway activation. Our previous metabolic profiling predicted that β-catenin-mutated HCC may exhibit intrinsic resistance to ketogenic therapy. 3-oxoacid CoA-transferase 1 (OXCT1), the key enzyme for ketone body catabolism, is aberrantly expressed in β-catenin-mutated HCC. This study explores how β-cateninS33Y-mutated HCC activates OXCT1 to reprogram ketone body metabolism to drive HCC ketogenic therapy resistance and metastasis. Utilizing subcutaneous tumor models and patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models of HCC, we demonstrated that ketogenic treatment was effective in β-catenin-wild-type HCC, whereas β-cateninS33Y-mutated HCC exhibited ketogenic therapy resistance and increased metastasis. Mechanistically, mutated β-cateninS33Y bound the transcription factor LEF1, which activated OXCT1 to promote ketolysis. An isotope metabolic flux experiment with C13-labeled β-hydroxybutyrate confirmed that β-catenin-activated OXCT1 converts ketone bodies into glutamate. Blocking OXCT1 in β-cateninS33Y-mutated HCC abolished resistance to ketogenic therapy and reduced tumor glutamate levels. Furthermore, OXCT1, activated by mutated β-catenin, enhanced HCC metastasis via the p-STAT3 and epithelial-mesenchymal transition pathways. Inhibition of OXCT1 attenuated its promoting effect on metastasis. Overall, in β-cateninS33Y-mutated HCC, OXCT1 activation leads to metabolic reprogramming of ketone bodies, resulting in resistance to ketogenic therapy and promoting metastasis. Targeting OXCT1 represents a promising strategy for treating β-cateninS33Y-mutated HCC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lung transplantation serves as a life-saving therapeutic intervention for patients with end-stage pulmonary diseases, with the lung ischemia-reperfusion injury (LIRI) as the major challenge. Correcting lipid metabolic dysregulation in alveolar epithelial cells by targeting key causative molecules is a promising therapeutic strategy for LIRI. Quantitative proteomics and metabolomics revealed that dysregulated fatty acid metabolism dominates the LIRI metabolic network. Transcriptome analysis of human LIRI samples indicated disorder of fatty acid oxidation and mitochondrial homeostasis disruption. Within this pathway, hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase (HADH), a key mitochondrial β-oxidation enzyme, was identified as a potential biomarker (AUC = 0.79). In Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats exposed to 60-min ischemia and 2-h reperfusion (I/R), the pulmonary expression of HADH decreased by about 50%. HADH overexpression mediated by adenoviruses conferred multi-faceted pulmonary protection both in vivo and in vitro: in I/R-subjected SD rats, it alleviated mitochondrial impairment, boosted ATP production, diminished ROS levels, and limited alveolar apoptosis; these effects were corroborated in RLE-6TN AT2 cells exposed to 2-h hypoxia/4-h reoxygenation (H/R). Building on evidence that lysine succinylation modulates mitochondrial enzyme activity, we further identified 7 succinylated lysine residues within the catalytic domain of HADH-rather than its dimerization domain-highlighting its potential functional significance. Specifically, 3-oxoacid CoA-transferase 1 (OXCT1) increased HADH succinylation at lysine 81 (K81), stabilizing HADH by blocking its degradation via chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA). The activated OXCT1-HADH axis reduced non-esterified fatty acid accumulation. OXCT1-succinylated K81 disrupted binding between HADH and heat shock protein A8 (HSPA8), a CMA recognition factor. HADH has a canonical HSPA8-binding CMA motif; mutating its key glutamine (Q132) or silencing HSPA8 inhibited CMA-mediated HADH degradation. Virtual screening shows that small-molecule drugs binding to HSPA8's active pocket (near its interaction region with HADH K81) have potential in treating post-lung transplantation dysfunction. Our findings elucidate the succinylation-dependent regulatory mechanism of HADH and provide a potential therapeutic strategy for LIRI.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
β-hydroxybutyric acid (BHB), a key ketone body with energy substrate and epigenetic regulatory roles, has contradictory effects in pathological contexts. Intestinal ischemia-reperfusion (IIR) is a life threatening perioperative complication characterized by metabolic disorders and mitochondrial dysfunction, yet BHB's role in IIR remains unclear. Using C57BL/6 mouse IIR models and Caco2 cell hypoxia-reoxygenation (HR) models, we identified a pathogenic mechanism: IIR induced nearly 10-fold elevation of intestinal BHB, while ketolytic enzymes 3-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase 1 (BDH1) and 3-oxoacid CoA-transferase 1 (OXCT1) were significantly downregulated, blocking BHB's metabolic pathway. Exogenous BHB administration failed to protect the intestine; instead, it selectively inhibited expression of histone deacetylase 2 (HDAC2) (by 30%) and disrupted its nuclear binding to the Sirt7 promoter, promoting Sirt7 gene transcriptional activation (mRNA upregulated by 2-fold). This cascade exacerbated oxidative stress (reactive oxygen species increased by 2.7-fold), reduced adenosine triphosphate levels (by 20%), impaired mitochondrial biogenesis (decreased mitochondrial DNA copy number and mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM)/mitochondrial ribosomal proteins (MRPs) expression), and aggravated intestinal barrier dysfunction (Claudin-1 reduced and D-lactate elevated). Notably, HDAC2 overexpression or SIRT7 knockdown reversed these impairments. Our findings uncover a previously unrecognized role of BHB in exacerbating IIR injury via the HDAC2/SIRT7 pathway, providing new insights for protecting pathological intestinal tissues at ischemic risk and targeting mitochondrial biogenesis.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Skin fibrosis is a progressive pathologic outcome of prolonged healing of cutaneous wounds, which has been well accepted as a metabolic disease in a recent study. However, the impact of ketone body metabolism on the development of cutaneous fibrosis remains largely unknown. Here, we found that ketone body metabolism was impaired in both human scars and bleomycin (BLM)-induced skin fibrogenesis of mice by bioinformatics analysis, which was further evidenced by downregulated expression of key modulators of ketone metabolism, including BDH1 (3-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase 1), OXCT1 (3-oxoacid CoA-transferase 1), and ACAT1 (acetyl-CoA acetyltransferase 1). With knockdown of OXCT1, a spontaneous onset of fibrosis in normal skin and exacerbation of BLM-induced skin fibrogenesis were observed. In dermal fibroblasts treated with transforming growth factor-beta 1, knockdown of OXCT1 improved their phenotype transition to myofibroblasts. Mechanistic studies indicated that phosphorylation of Smad2/3 signaling was markedly suppressed by acetoacetate supplementation. More importantly, we found that local administration remarkably alleviated fibrosis of BLM-treated skin in mice. Thus, our findings underscore the therapeutic potential of acetoacetate as an alternative intervention for skin fibrosis.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
3-Oxoacid CoA-transferase 1 (OXCT1) plays a crucial role in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) progression through its ketolytic and succinyltransferase activities. Despite its potential as a therapeutic target, no small molecules have been developed to inhibit the dual enzymatic activities of OXCT1 specifically. In this study, our structural analysis revealed that the active sites for both enzymatic functions of OXCT1 are located in the same pocket. Targeting this pocket inhibits the binding of OXCT1 to its substrates and blocks both of its enzymatic activities. Thus, we developed two high-throughput screening systems to assess the effects of small molecules on OXCT1's distinct enzymatic activities. By combining these experimental approaches with virtual screening, we identified a compound, D574-0246 (iOXCT1), which effectively inhibits both enzymatic activities. In vitro and in vivo validation demonstrated that iOXCT1 suppresses HCC growth via OXCT1 inhibition. Collectively, our results establish OXCT1 as a promising therapeutic target and identify iOXCT1 as a novel dual-activity inhibitor, providing a foundation for developing OXCT1-targeted therapies against HCC.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ervogastat (PF-06865571) is a potent and selective small-molecule inhibitor of diacylglycerol-O-acyltransferase-2 currently in clinical development for treating metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis with liver fibrosis. A fixed sequence 2-period 14C-microtracer crossover study was used to determine a comprehensive and quantitative overview of the total disposition of ervogastat after oral and intravenous administration. From these studies, ervogastat was determined to have a systemic clearance of 23.9 L/h, a volume of distribution of 38.8 L, extent of oral absorption of ∼93%, time to maximum plasma concentration of ∼3.0 hours, and absolute oral bioavailability of ∼75%. The plasma half-lives of both ervogastat and total radioactivity were similar, with no indication of long-lived metabolites. The total recovery of [14C]ervogastat after oral administration was 79.0% ± 16.7%, with 48.9% ± 16.3% in the urine and 30.1% ± 2.9% in the feces. Ervogastat metabolites observed in human plasma, urine and feces generally can be assigned as originating from 1 of 4 primary metabolic pathways: amide bond hydrolysis (M2); tetrahydrofuran oxidation (M4/M5); O-de-ethylation (M1); and direct glucuronidation (584). The major circulating drug-related components were ervogastat (43.8%), M2 (36.6%), and M6 (11.3%). The major drug-related components detected in urine were M2 (24.9%) and coeluting M6 (des-ethyl sulfate), M7 (des-ethyl amide hydrolysis) and 584 (11.4%). In the feces, the predominant drug-related products were coeluting M4 and 426 (10.0%), M2 (7.0), M7 (6.3%), and M1 (4.5%). Reaction phenotyping was carried out using a subsequent qualitative followed by quantitative approach identifying CYP3A metabolism as the predominant route of in vitro metabolism. As assignment of metabolic pathways in the hADME study was complicated by chromatographically coeluting metabolites or metabolites arising from multiple possible primary pathways, fractional clearance ranges were derived by assigning metabolites to only one primary pathway at a time to represent a potential permutation followed by evaluation of all possible permutations. This novel approach allowed us to overcome the aforementioned confounding issues and, along with in vitro chemical inhibition results, permitted the assignment of the various metabolic pathways and enzymes involved in the metabolism of ervogastat. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: This study provides a comprehensive and quantitative overview of the disposition, clearance pathways, and pharmacokinetics in humans of ervogastat, a potent and selective inhibitor of diacylglycerol-O-acyltransferase-2 for the treatment of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis with liver fibrosis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Alzheimer's disease (AD), an age-associated neurodegenerative disorder, is characterized by progressive cognitive decline, amyloid-β (Aβ) accumulation (including soluble oligomers and deposited aggregates), lipid dysregulation, and neuroinflammation. Although mutations in the amyloid precursor protein (APP) and accumulation of Aβ42 are established drivers of pathology, the mechanisms connecting oligomeric amyloid toxicity with lipid metabolism and inflammatory responses remain poorly understood. Here, we employed complementary Drosophila and mouse models to dissect these relationships. Panneuronal, glial or mushroom body specific expression of humanized AppNLG and Aβ42 in Drosophila resulted in locomotor deficits, disrupted sleep-circadian rhythms, memory impairments, lipid accumulation, synaptic loss, and neuroinflammatory signatures. Comparable lipid accumulation, metabolic dysregulation and neuroinflammation were detected in the AppNLG-F knock-in mouse model, underscoring their conserved relevance to AD pathogenesis. We further identified diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase 2 (Dgat2), a key enzyme catalyzing the final step of triglyceride synthesis, as a critical modulator of AD-related phenotypes. Dgat2 expression was altered in both animal models and human AD tissues. Notably, panneuronal knockdown of Dgat2 in Drosophila attenuated lipid accumulation, restored synaptic integrity, and ameliorated locomotor and cognitive deficits, while also reducing neuroinflammation. Additionally Dgat2 suppression improved sleep and circadian behavior, highlighting its pleiotropic protective effects. Together, these findings support a mechanistic link between amyloid pathology, lipid dysregulation, and neuroinflammatory processes. The conservation of lipid homeostasis mechanisms across species underscores the translational potential of this approach for delaying or mitigating AD progression. Moreover, targeting Dgat2 may therefore represent a novel therapeutic strategy to counteract AD-associated metabolic and neuronal dysfunction.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41722228 is a review article
Chicken livers can be sustainably developed into nutraceuticals through the circular-agriculture innovation chain. A supplement (GBHP01) formulated from chicken-liver hydrolysates contains free-type hypolipidemic amino acids (threonine, valine, leucine, isoleucine, and taurine) and the imidazole-ring dipeptide (anserine). In this study, mice were assigned to four groups: (1) Control: control diet (AIN-93M formula; fat providing 9.4% of total calories), (2) HFD: high-fat diet (fat providing 46.5% of total calories), (3) GBHP01.L: HFD supplemented with GBHP01 at 133.61 mg/Kg BW/day, and (4) GBHP01.H: HFD supplemented with GBHP01 at 267.22 mg/Kg BW/day. GBHP01 was administered by oral gavage. In 20-week HFD feeding, GBHP01 supplementation significantly reduced serum lipids, ALT, AST, and hepatic tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-1β (IL-1β), and interleukin-6 (IL-6) concentrations, while enhancing reduced GSH, TEAC, catalase, and GSH-Px levels (p<0.05). Histological analysis revealed decreased hepatic lipid accumulation, associated with decreased diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase 2 (DGAT2) and increased acyl-CoA dehydrogenase medium chain (ACADM) expression. GBHP01 also promoted fecal bile acid and triglyceride excretion, indicating reduced fat absorption. Fecal microbiota profiling showed that HFD disrupted microbial diversity, increasing detrimental genera (Desulfovibrio, Bilophila, and Lachnoclostridium) while decreasing beneficial taxa (Lactobacillus and Akkermansia). GBHP01 may contribute to shifts in gut microbial composition by elevating probiotic species (L. reuteri and L. murinus) and reducing inflammatory taxa (Bilophila and Mucispirillum), suggesting its potential as a dietary intervention against HFD-induced metabolic disorders.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41616414 is a review article
PAX-interacting protein 1 (PTIP/PAXIP1) was discovered and initially characterized over three decades ago as a 1,056 amino acid-containing protein with six tandem BReast cancer C-Terminal (BRCT) repeats. PTIP functions broadly to catalyze histone methylation in DNA damage repair and within the hematopoietic lineage, to promote immunoglobulin variable region (variable, diversity, joining [VDJ]) and class switch recombination (CSR). In this report, we show that a fraction of PTIP is actively transported from the nucleus to mitochondria resulting in their aggregation, release of cytochrome c into the cytoplasm and cellular apoptosis. Deletion of an N-terminal glutamine-rich region (QR), mutation of a conserved threonine within BRCT3 and truncation of the C-terminal BRCT5 domain each significantly reduced apoptosis as well as its previously documented G2/M cell cycle function. This is the first report to identify a mitochondrial-based apoptotic mechanism employed by the PTIP transcription factor.
The abnormal proliferation, migration, and angiogenesis of retinal microvascular endothelial cells (RMECs) are key pathological mechanisms involved in diabetic retinopathy (DR). This study aims to investigate the regulatory role of PAX interacting protein 1 (PTIP) in modulating proliferation, angiogenesis, and inflammatory responses in RMECs under high-glucose conditions. The levels of PTIP, VEGF, MDA, and SOD were measured in RMECs cultured under both normal and high-glucose conditions. A PTIP overexpression vector and a PTIP interference vector were constructed and transfected into RMECs exposed to high glucose. Cell proliferation was assessed using the CCK-8 assay, cell migration capacity was evaluated through wound healing assays, and tube formation ability was analyzed using Matrigel-based assays. Intracellular MDA and SOD levels were determined biochemically, while TNF-α and IL-6 concentrations in the culture supernatants were quantified by ELISA. The expression levels of EGR3, VEGF, MMP3, and MMP9 were detected using Western blotting and immunofluorescence techniques. The results showed that the expressions of PTIP and SOD were down-regulated in RMECs exposed to high glucose, whereas the levels of VEGF and MDA were up-regulated. Overexpression of PTIP in high-glucose-treated RMECs significantly suppressed cell proliferation, tube formation, and migration abilities. Additionally, it markedly reduced the levels of MDA, IL-6, TNF-α, EGR3, VEGF, MMP3, and MMP9 while increasing the level of SOD. Conversely, PTIP knockdown in RMECs under high-glucose conditions elicited opposite effects. Thus, overexpression of PTIP mitigated the impairment of proliferation, migration, and tube formation abilities, as well as reduced the inflammatory response induced by high glucose in RMECs.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41475978 is a review article
The transient accumulation of triglyceride (TG)-enriched lipid droplets (LDs) in hepatocytes during early liver regeneration is critical for generation but remains mechanistically unclear, particularly the roles of LD fusion-associated proteins in lipid mobilization. Here, through integrated lipidomic and transcriptomic analyses, Cell death-inducing DNA fragmentation factor-like Effector C (CIDEC), an LD-associated protein upregulated during this phase is identified, as a negative regulator of regeneration through its unexpected role in sequestering TG within LDs. Mechanistically, CIDEC acts as a metabolic gatekeeper: its depletion after peak LD accumulation promotes TG mobilization and enhances fatty acid oxidation (FAO)-driven regeneration. This pro-regenerative effect is abolished by FAO inhibition, underscoring the central role of TG catabolism. Conversely, overexpression of CIDEC or the TG biosynthetic enzyme Diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase 2 (DGAT2) exacerbates TG retention and impairs liver regeneration. Notably, CIDEC depletion significantly improves regenerative outcomes in mice with chronic steatosis. These findings reveal a previously unrecognized role for LD fusion in regulating the TG storage-utilization balance, where its suppression promotes metabolic flexibility to meet the energetic demands of liver regeneration. This metabolic checkpoint may be targeted to overcome impaired liver regeneration associated with fatty liver disease.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Hyperlipidemia and hyperglycemia are common health crises worldwide, affecting numerous animals including humans. Botanical extracts play an increasingly important role in regulating lipid and glucose metabolism. This study aims to validate the biological activities of ginsenosides and perilla seed extracts via cell-based assays. Furthermore, transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses were conducted using Illumina sequencing and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) to investigate the underlying mechanisms of lipid and glucose metabolism regulation. The optimal ginsenoside-perilla seed extract combination (2:1) reduced triglycerides by 51.65 % (canine) and 67.58 % (feline) in high-fat-induced hepatocytes. Perilla extract (50 μg/mL) increased glucose uptake to 146.62 % (canine) and 302.18 % (feline) in high-glucose models, while significantly attenuating oxidative stress. The active substances significantly reduce lipid metabolism disorders by inhibiting the expression of lipid synthesis genes such as diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase 2 (DGAT2) and activating the phosphoinositide 3-kinase - protein kinase B (PI3K-Akt)signaling pathway. Moreover, they may regulate the insulin receptor substrate 2 (IRS2)-driven phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) pathway to enhance cellular glucose consumption and alleviate oxidative damage caused by high glucose. Overall, this study provided experimental evidence for the development of natural products for the prevention and treatment of metabolic syndrome (METS).Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The lung vasculature is comprised of a series of branching vessels extending from the main pulmonary artery to the alveolar capillaries, then back to the pulmonary veins. Lung endothelial cells (EC) exist along this continuum, exposed to gradients of shear stress, oxygen tension, and pressure. Single-cell RNA sequencing has identified lung EC subsets, but many aspects of the vascular continuum, including vessel size and capillary polarity, remain undefined from transcriptomic data.We created an EC-enriched single-cell RNA sequencing data set from the P3 mouse lung. Using diffusion pseudotime, we developed an analytical framework to delineate transcriptomic gradients and assign vessel-size scores to categorize individual EC along the vascular continuum. We validated size-related gene expression patterns with fluorescence in situ hybridization and tested the application of this framework to transcriptomic data sets derived from diverse species and developmental stages.We categorized capillary 1, arterial, and venous EC along 2 gradients: arterio-venous zonation and vessel size, distinguishing large arteries from arterioles, large veins from venules, and revealing arterio-venous polarity within the capillaries. Our data recapitulated previously established zonally defined cell signaling axes, identified unique cellular communication patterns in large versus small vessels, and localized injury-induced venous EC proliferation to vessels of specific size. This analytical framework was successfully applied to categorize lung EC by size in several published mouse and human data sets across different stages of lung development.Our findings provide a new approach to analyze transcriptional data to map EC along the pulmonary vascular tree, enabling the assignment of individual EC to vessels of a relative size. This framework allows the inference of spatial information from gene expression alone, thus providing novel mechanistic insights into pulmonary vascular diseases affecting specific vascular segments.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42554396
Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) is a major complication of prematurity, characterized by impaired alveolar epithelium regeneration and long-term respiratory morbidity. The cellular basis of this defect and the underlying epithelial-mesenchymal signals remain unclear. To define alveolar type 2 (AT2) cell heterogeneity and regenerative capacity, we analyzed lineage-traced AT2 cells in neonatal mice exposed to hyperoxia (85% O2, postnatal days 1-14). We assessed cellular states and function by flow cytometry, transcriptomics, and organoid assays. During normal lung development, AT2 cells gradually segregated into two transcriptionally distinct subpopulations, TomHigh and TomLow. TomHigh cells exhibited canonical AT2 identity, lipid metabolism, and enhanced mitochondrial function, showing strong organoid-forming and differentiation potential. TomLow cells displayed metabolic restriction and limited regenerative capacity. Hyperoxia caused alveolar simplification, expanding TomLow cells at the expense of TomHigh cells. AT2 cells entered a proliferative state and became Krt8+ transitional cells, but RNA velocity and lineage analyses showed impaired maturation toward AT1 cells, leading to persistent AT1 deficiency. Hyperoxia induced Sfrp1 and Frzb expression in a rare but detectable Sftpc+Acta2+ AT2 subset, and more prominently in Pdgfra+ fibroblasts, which adopted a myofibroblast-like phenotype. Fibroblast-epithelial co-culture and fibroblast-specific Sfrp1/Frzb overexpression impaired organoid formation and reduced AT2-to-AT1 differentiation. These findings identify a fibroblast-dominated Sfrp1/Frzb-mediated niche that constrains AT2 differentiation into AT1 cells, providing a cellular basis for impaired alveolar regeneration in BPD and suggesting potential therapeutic targets.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Thoracic Society. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Acute lung injury (ALI) and progressive acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) have high mortality and limited effective therapies. Fibroblast growth factor 8 (FGF8) participates in lung development, inflammation and cell regulation, yet its function in ALI remains unclear.We constructed an LPS-induced mouse ALI model to detect FGF8 expression. FGF8 haploinsufficiency and overexpression systems were used to explore its biological function. RNA-seq combined with GO and KEGG enrichment analyses screened target pathways, which were further verified via experiments. The PPARγ antagonist GW9662 was applied to confirm the regulatory role of PPARγ.Lung FGF8 expression was significantly upregulated in LPS-challenged mice. FGF8 haploinsufficiency exacerbated weight loss, pulmonary edema, lung histological injury, pro-inflammatory cytokine (IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α) release, and apoptosis imbalance. It also accelerated collagen accumulation and elevated profibrotic markers including α-SMA, TGF-β1 and COL1A1. Conversely, FGF8 overexpression relieved all these pathological phenotypes. Mechanistically, FGF8 haploinsufficiency inhibited PPARγ and activated ERK1/2 phosphorylation, while FGF8 overexpression reversed this change. Blocking PPARγ with GW9662 further boosted ERK1/2 activation and abolished the protective effects of FGF8 against ALI.FGF8 alleviates inflammation, apoptosis and early pulmonary fibrosis in LPS-induced ALI mice via the PPARγ/ERK1/2 signaling pathway.
Paracetamol is increasingly used as analgesic and to treat patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) in preterm infants, though preclinical data suggest it may potentially harm the developing lung. The BeNeDuctus trial compared expectant PDA management versus ibuprofen in infants with gestational age <28 weeks, allowing paracetamol for analgesia. In this secondary analysis of the trial, we investigated the potential association between paracetamol and the risk of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD).The 273 infants enrolled in the BeNeDuctus were classified into four subgroups based on their exposure to paracetamol (n = 30), ibuprofen (n = 87), paracetamol and ibuprofen (n = 49), or no exposure (control, n = 107). Multivariable logistic regression was used to calculate adjusted odds ratios (aORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Confounders were selected based on a Directed Acyclic Graph.Compared with the control group, exposure to paracetamol alone (aOR 3.22, CI 1.05-9.89), ibuprofen alone (aOR 2.90, CI 1.40-6.03), or paracetamol and ibuprofen (aOR 3.88, CI 1.57-9.57) was associated with an increased odds of moderate-to-severe BPD.Our data suggest that paracetamol, used for pain management, increased the risk of moderate-to-severe BPD. This finding supports the calls for a thorough evaluation of the safety of paracetamol on the developing lungs of extremely preterm infants.Paracetamol is gaining interest as pharmacological treatment for patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) in extremely preterm infants. Safety is assumed, based on data from studies evaluating the effects of paracetamol exposure on liver function, although recently concerns on lung development are emerging. This study supports the urgent need for additional research on the safety of paracetamol as treatment option for PDA, but also for other indications in extremely preterm infants, with regard to lung development.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42538023 is a review article
Endometrial decidualization is essential for successful embryo implantation and pregnancy establishment. This study investigates the role of high mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) in endometrial stromal cells (hESCs) during decidualization. We found that HMGB1 expression was upregulated during decidualization in vitro and in normal decidual tissues but was reduced in decidua from patients with recurrent spontaneous abortion (RSA). HMGB1 Knockdown in hESCs impaired decidualization by disrupting stromal cell differentiation, reducing the expression of prolactin (PRL) and insulin like growth factor binding protein 1 (IGFBP1), and promoting aberrant cell proliferation. HMGB1 deficiency resulted in mitochondrial dysfunction, characterized by impaired oxidative phosphorylation, reduced ATP production, and altered mitochondrial morphology and membrane potential. Mechanistically, HMGB1 regulated the expression of PPARG coactivator 1 alpha (PPARGC1A), a key regulator of mitochondrial biogenesis and oxidative metabolism, suggesting that HMGB1 contributes to decidualization through PPARGC1A mediated metabolic regulation. Furthermore, reduced PPARGC1A expression in RSA decidua further supports the involvement of the HMGB1-PPARGC1A axis in decidual dysfunction. In addition, HMGB1 exhibited dynamic expression patterns in the uterus of early pregnant mice, with enriched expression in decidual regions at implantation sites. Collectively, these findings identify HMGB1 as an important regulator of decidualization by coordinating mitochondrial function and cellular energy metabolism, providing new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying decidual dysfunction and pregnancy complications.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
The sheep lung has long been used to model aspects of the human lung, both its normal development and pathological changes that occur in ovine models of lung disease. The similarities between the two species provide an opportunity to investigate phases of lung development that are not accessible for investigation in humans, for example later in gestation. Here we use single cell (sc) RNA-seq to investigate the developmental dynamics of the sheep proximal and distal lung from mid gestation (80 days) through late gestation (120 days) and term (147 days). We identify changes in cell identity and abundance between the time points that illustrate many key features of mesenchymal, endothelial, and epithelial differentiation. Lastly we compare the single cell profiles through development of wildtype (WT) sheep with those of animals of the same breed engineered to have a loss-of-function mutation in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene. Mutations in CFTR cause cystic fibrosis (CF) and the CFTR-/- sheep exhibit many features of CF in humans. The results identify cellular signatures in the CFTR-/- lung before birth that may facilitate the understanding of clinical features of CF in early postnatal life.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42528593 is a review article
Among poultry species, only waterfowl (e.g., goose and duck) possess the external genitalia. Normal erection of the external genitalia in male geese is directly related to mating capability, but its underlying genetic mechanisms remain elusive. In this study, we conducted a multi-omics study on male geese with normal erection (NE) and erectile dysfunction (ED) external genitalia phenotypic, to identify key candidate genes and main molecular networks contributing to external genitalia development differences. Here, we present a comprehensive genome resource for male geese, including a high-coverage (20×) whole genome of 259 samples from Sichuan White Goose × Lande Goose F2 resource population. The genome-wide association study (GWAS) analyses of NE and ED male geese indicated that PCDH7, TFPI, CALCRL, HIBCH, COL3A1, and CAVIN2 may be related to the differences in erectile function of external genitalia. At the transcriptomic level, we identified 318, 629, 2482, and 901 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the hypothalamus, pituitary gland, testis, and external genitalia cartilage between NE and ED groups, respectively. Further analysis demonstrated that PCDH7 was identified by both SNP-GWAS and transcriptomic analysis. Integrated with transcriptome data, it was revealed that PCDH7 involved in the function of male goose external genitalia cartilage development may be through MAPK signaling pathway. Collectively, our multi-faceted analysis suggests that PCDH7 affects male geese external genitalia erection may be through the MAPK signaling pathway. Our findings not only provide new insights into the development of external genitalia but also contribute to improving the reproductive performance of male geese.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Understanding the metabolic profile of backfat is essential for optimizing breeding strategies and improving pork production. While the early stages of adipose tissue development have been partially characterized, metabolic alterations during the fattening phase (180-360 days)- a critical period for physiological maturation and carcass trait formation-remain insufficiently understood. In this study, we characterized the metabolomic profiles of backfat from Ningxiang pigs across four developmental stages (180d, 240d, 300d, 360d) and evaluated their relationships with carcass traits. A total of 154 metabolites exhibited significant temporal variation (q < 0.05), including functional lipids such as methanandamide phosphate and oleoylethanolamide, which are associated with appetite regulation and lipid metabolism. The progressive accumulation of bioactive exogenous metabolites like α-tocotrienol and cephaeline, indicated potential stage-dependent immunometabolic adaptations. In contrast, several synthetic xenobiotics, potentially derived from feed additives or environmental exposure, accumulated in backfat tissue and may represent potential risks to animal health and pork safety. Co-expression network analysis identified a metabolite module strongly associated (|R| > 0.7, q < 0.05) with key carcass traits, within which psychotrine-an understudied plant-derived alkaloid not previously associated with animal growth- was identified as a hub metabolite. This study establishes a comprehensive metabolic characterization of backfat during the fattening phase in an indigenous pig breed. Collectively, these findings provide novel candidate biomarkers for carcass trait prediction, highlight the potential impact of synthetic compound accumulation, and offer valuable insights for precision breeding, nutritional management, and meat safety assessment in swine production.Copyright: © 2026 Chen et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42461215 is a review article
Adipocyte differentiation is central to adipose tissue development, yet the regulatory mechanisms and transcriptional networks remain incompletely understood. Here, we demonstrate that suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3) plays a pivotal role in regulating avian adipogenesis by modulating adipogenic transcriptional programs. Multiplex immunofluorescence revealed that SOCS3 is enriched in PDGFRα+ preadipocytes within abdominal fat but declines during late differentiation. Functional studies in primary adipocytes and ICP1 cell line showed that SOCS3 knockdown promotes, whereas overexpression inhibits, adipogenic differentiation. Transcriptomic profiling indicated that SOCS3 depletion remodels the adipogenic transcriptional landscape, upregulating adipogenic and metabolic genes while downregulating transcriptional inhibitors. Mechanistically, proteomic analyses and co-immunoprecipitation identified poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1) as a SOCS3-binding partner. SOCS3 stabilizes PARP1 by suppressing its ubiquitination, leading to increased PAR levels and inhibition of adipogenesis. PARP1 interacts with PPARγ and represses its transcriptional activity through a mechanism independent of enzymatic PARylation. Importantly, ligand activation of PPARγ weakens its interaction with PARP1 and alleviates PARP1-mediated repression of its transcriptional activity. Collectively, these findings reveal a previously unrecognized SOCS3/PARP1 axis that modulates the transcriptional programs driving chicken adipocyte differentiation, underscoring its critical role in adipogenesis.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
The vagal sensory nervous system plays important roles in mediating gut-brain communication and maintaining physiological homeostasis. Although recent research has greatly enhanced our understanding of the function of vagal sensory neurons, little is known about what guides the vagal sensory nerve fibers to innervate the intestine and form a complex gut-brain sensory network. Here, using zebrafish genetic models to trace the development of the intestinal vagal network, we found that the development of the intestinal vagal sensory network is coupled with the formation of enteroendocrine cells (EECs). Vagal sensory neurons begin to innervate the intestine at 2 d postfertilization. Vagal nerve fibers branch out toward the newly formed EECs in the intestinal epithelium. The newly formed EECs display active actin filaments at their base, enabling them to physically engage with the vagal sensory fibers and facilitate the formation of the intestinal vagal sensory network. Genetically ablating EECs impairs intestinal vagal network formation and alters the vagal central projection pattern. Ablating EECs induces apoptosis in a subset of vagal sensory neurons and reduces the number of central projecting axons of the intestine innervating vagal sensory neurons. Moreover, ablating EECs completely alters the brain's response to nutrient ingestion and diminishes nutrient-induced hindbrain and hypothalamus neuron activation. Finally, loss of EECs increases food intake while impairing adipose tissue development and survival. Together, our study revealed that EECs guide vagal sensory neuron development and intestinal vagal network formation. Loss of EECs impairs the anatomical vagal sensory axis and alters gut-brain signaling transmission.
Large rotator cuff tendon injuries pose a dual clinical challenge: poor inherent healing capacity and high mechanical demands. To address this, we have developed a bifunctional scaffold that combines a slow-degrading, mechanically robust polyurethane core coated with tendon-derived extracellular matrix (ECM) extract to provide both structural support and regenerative cues. In a rabbit model of supraspinatus tendon injury, this ECM-polyurethane scaffold facilitated healing of critical-sized defects, resulting in aligned, tendon-like tissue with improved biomechanical properties. This study further explored the tendon healing mechanisms of the ECM-polyurethane scaffold in a rabbit model of large supraspinatus tendon injury using transcriptomic and qPCR analyses. At one month post-surgery, while both ECM-coated and uncoated polyurethane scaffolds initially provoked similar inflammatory responses when compared to healthy tendon, their healing pathways diverged significantly. The control polyurethane scaffold activated pathways associated with adipose tissue development, a non-functional outcome, whereas the ECM-coated scaffold actively directed healing toward tendon regeneration. These results demonstrate that the ECM coating is the critical factor driving divergent healing responses in polyurethane scaffolds, even though their underlying biomechanical properties are similar. This underscores the importance of combining biomechanical reinforcement with biologically active regenerative signals for effective regeneration of tendon and other load-bearing tissues.
The prenatal structural organization of the human heel fat pad (HHFP) remains poorly understood, despite its relevance for foot development and related disorders. It is composed of neural, vascular, fibrous, and elastic components arranged into a system of honeycomb-like architecture of microchambers and macrochambers embedded within adipose tissue. This study aimed to characterize the histological and morphometric development of the HHFP, with particular emphasis on compartmentalization and layer-specific maturation, identifying developmental weeks potentially relevant to congenital abnormalities. Embryonic and fetal specimens (8-34 gestational weeks) well preserved anatomical integrity and without histological evidence of malformation or tissue degradation of the feet were included from the Department of Anatomy and Embryology of the Complutense University of Madrid were analyzed. Early stages were characterized by undifferentiated mesenchymal tissue with prominent vascularization and absence of organized adipose structures. Based on structural organization, HHFP development was classified into three stages: Stage A, defined by early organization without a clearly identifiable horizontal fibrous band (HFB); Stage B, representing the progressive formation of the HFB and the onset of compartmentalization into superficial subcutaneous microchamber (SSM) and deep subcutaneous macrochamber (DSM) layers; and Stage C, characterized by a well-defined HFB, established compartmentalization, and progressive adipocyte maturation. Morphometric analysis demonstrated a progressive increase in HHFP thickness, with consistently greater thickness and adipocyte diameter in the DSM compared to the SSM. These findings indicate that HHFP development followed a rapid growth between weeks 14 and 17, with region-specific pattern in which compartmentalization precedes adipocyte maturation and occurs in an asynchronous, layer-dependent manner. This study provides the first structural framework for understanding prenatal HHFP organization, extending beyond classical models of adipose tissue development.Copyright © 2026 International Society of Differentiation. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Flow cytometry and fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) techniques have significantly advanced the characterization of adipocyte precursor cell (APC) populations. They allow immuno-phenotyping, quantification, and isolation of distinct populations, which critical for understanding adipose tissue development and homeostasis. Here, we describe the identification and purification of APCs using flow cytometry, FACS, and cytometry by time-of-flight (CyTOF), defined by previously established surface marker profiles. In addition, we describe the mouse models and whole adipose tissue visualization techniques that will enable us to characterize the cellular origin and plasticity of APCs.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Explore the epidemiological characteristics and risk factors of overactive bladder (OAB) in children in Qingdao, China.A stratified random cluster sampling method was adopted from 20 primary schools of Qingdao between September 2024 and June 2025. Data were collected through anonymous questionnaires, including basic information, lower urinary tract symptoms, Overactive Bladder Symptom Score, Pediatric Sleep Questionnaire (PSQ) and Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire. Meanwhile, body mass index (BMI), history of nocturnal enuresis (NE), diaper use, urinary tract infection, constipation, and external genitalia development were collected.3200 questionnaires were distributed, with 2986 valid ones recovered, including 1492 boys and 1494 girls. The morbidity of OAB was 5.86% (175/2986), with 7.24% (108/1492) in boys and 4.46% (67/1494) in girls, and the difference was statistically significant (P < 0.001). The morbidity of children over 9-year-old (4.45%, 77/1683) and those under 9-year-old (7.52%, 98/1303) was statistically significant (P < 0.001). NE history, urinary tract infection history, constipation, excessive use of diapers, boy with phimosis or redundant prepuce were independent risk factors. The scores of emotional symptoms, conduct problems, hyperactivity symptoms, peer relationship problems, total difficulty score, and total PSQ score in the OAB group were significantly higher than those of the non-OAB group, with statistically significant differences (all P < 0.05).Boys and children under 9-year-old are at higher risk of OAB in Qingdao. History of NE, urinary tract infection, constipation, excessive use of diapers, and a boy with phimosis or redundant prepuce are the main independent risk factors. Meanwhile, OAB significantly affects children's mental health and sleep quality.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier España S.L.U. All rights reserved.
The Developmental Origins of Health and Disease theory describes early life as a critical window for long-term metabolic health. Accumulating evidence has identified the gut microbiota as a key mediator of early-life metabolic programming. This study utilized antibiotic intervention in neonatal mice to investigate the long-term effects of early postnatal gut microbiota perturbations on adult lipid metabolism and examined the underlying mechanisms involving both thermogenic adipose tissue programming and microbiota structural remodeling. We found that early postnatal antibiotic exposure significantly disrupted the normal developmental assembly of the gut microbiota. Surprisingly, these alterations were associated with partial attenuation of high‑fat diet‑induced lipid metabolic disturbances in adulthood, an effect that was more pronounced in male mice than in female mice. Mechanistically, the observed metabolic improvement appeared to be associated with brown adipose tissue (BAT) thermogenic activation rather than with white adipose tissue browning or persistent gut microbiota restructuring. Early postnatal antibiotic exposure-associated gut microbiota alterations were linked to enhanced BAT development, potentially via interleukin-6 signaling and M2 macrophage polarization, suggestive of a metabolic programming effect that enhanced adaptive thermogenesis and improved long-term lipid homeostasis. These findings indicate that the gut microbiota might represent a modifiable factor influencing adipose tissue development, highlighting the potential of targeting the microbiota-BAT interplay in early life for obesity prevention strategies.
